587 STRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. root of the lung, as follows : from before, backwards, they are placed in a similar order on both sides, viz. Pulmonary veins, Pulmonary artery. Bronchus. From above, downwards, on the right side, this order is exactly reversed; but on the left side, the bronchus has to stoop beneath the arch of the aorta, which alters its position to the vessels. They are thus disposed on the two sides:— Right. Left. Bronchus, Artery, Artery, Bronchus, Veins. Veins. The special relations of the roots of the lung are, for the right, the descending cava, which lies in front, and the vena azygos, which arches over it from behind to terminate in the superior vena cava. The root of the left lung has the descending aorta lying behind it. Structure.—The lungs are composed of the ramifications of the bronchial tubes (bronchia), which terminate in intercellular passages and air-cells, of the ramifications of the pulmonary arteries and veins, bronchial arteries and veins, lymphatics, and nerves; the whojle of these structures, being held together by cellular tissue, constitute the parenchyma. The parenchyma of the lungs, when examined on the surface or by means of a section, is seen to consist of small polyhedral divisions, or lobules, which are connected to each other by an inter-lobular cellular tissue. These lobules again cotisist of smaller lobules, and the latter are formed by a cluster of air-cells, in the parietes of which the capillaries of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins are distributed. Each lobule, taken alone, is provided with its separate bronchial tube, pulmonary artery and vein, and is isolated from surrounding lobules by a pro- cess of cellular membrane derived from the subserous tissue; the entire lung is an assemblage of these lobules, so separated and so connected, held together by the pleura. The serous investing membrane of the lungs or pleura is connected with the surface of the lobules by means of a subserous cellular tissue, which forms a distinct layer, and being prolonged between the lobules, is the bond of adhesion between them. This layer contains elastic tissue, and is a chief source of the elasticity of the lungs; its interstices are moistened by a serous secretion, and are unincumbered with fat. Bronchial Tubes.—The two bronchi proceed from the bifurcation of the trachea opposite the third dorsal vertebra to their corre- sponding lungs. The right, about an inch long, takes its course nearly at right angles with the trachea, and enters the upper part of the right lung; while the left, two inches in length, and smaller than the right, passes obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, and enters the lung at about the middle of its root. Upon entering the lungs, they divide into two branches, and each of these divides and subdivides