FEMORAL ARTERY. 366 The CiRCUMFLEXA iLii arises from the outer side of the external iliac, a little below the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Poupart's lig^iment, and curving around the crest of the ilium, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar and inferior lumbar artery. In its course the artery pierces the crural sheath and then lies between the transversalis muscle and fascia; near its termination it pierces the transversalis muscle and becomes placed between it and the internal oblique. Opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, it gives off a large ascending branch, which passes upwards between the internal oblique and transversalis, and divides into numerous branches which supply the abdominal muscles, and inos- culate with the inferior intercostal and with the lumbar arteries. Varieties in the branches of the external iliac.—The epigastric artery not unfrequently* gives off the obturator, which descends in contact with the external iliac vein, to the obturator foramen. In this situation the artery would lie to the outer side of the femoral ring, and would not be endangered in the operation of dividing the stricture of femoral hernia. But occasionally the obturator passes along the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament in its course to the obturator foramen, and would completely encircle the neck of the hernial sac, a position in which it could scarcely escape the knife of the operator. In a preparation now before me, the branch of com- munication between the epigastric and obturator arteries is very much enlarged, and takes this dangerous course. FEMORAL ARTERY. Emerging from beneath Poupart's ligament, the external iliac artery enters the thigh and becomes the femoral. The femoral artery (femoralis; cruralis) passes down the inner side of the thigh, from Poupart's ligament, at a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, to the opening in the adductor magnus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, where it becomes the popliteal artery. The femoral artery and vein are enclosed in a strong sheath, femoral sheath, which is formed for the greater part of its extent, by aponeurotic and cellular tissue, and by a process of fascia sent inwards from the fascia lata. Near Poupart's ligament this sheath is much larger (infundibuliform) than the vessels it contains, and * The proportion in which, high diyision of the obturator artery from the epigastric occurs, is stated to be one in three. In two hundred and fifty sub- jects examined by Cloquet with a view to ascertain how frequently the high division took place, he found the obturator arising from the epigastric on both sides one hundred and fifty times; on one side twentv-eight times, and six times it arose from the femoral artery.