FIFTH PAIR—TRIFACIAL. 460 nous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure. In its course through the sinus it is situated at first below the motor oculi, but afterwards ascends and becomes the highest of the nerves which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Upon entering the orbit the nerve crosses the levator palpebrse muscle near its origin, and is distributed upon the orbital surface of the superior oblique or trochlearis muscle ; hence its synonym trochlearis. Branches.—While in the cavernous sinus the fourth nerve gives off a recurrent branch, and sends a branch of communication to the ophthalmic nerve; the recurrent branch, which consists of sympa- thetic filaments derived from the carotid plexus, passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, and divides into two or three filaments, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. This recurrent nerve is sometimes a branch of the ophthalmic, and occasionally proceeds directly from the carotid plexus. Sometimes the communication with the ophthalmic takes place in the orbit, in which case the lachrymal nerve has the appear- ance of arising by two roots. Fifth Pair. Trifacial (trigeminus.) — The fifth nerve, the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, and the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. It arises from a tract of yellowish-white matter situated in front of the floor of the fourth ventricle and origin of the auditory nerve, and behind the crus cerebelli. This tract divides inferiorly into two fasciculi which may be traced downwards into the spinal cord, one being continuous with the fibres of the anterior column, the other with the posterior column. Proceeding from this origin the two roots of the nerve pass forward, and issue from the brain upon the anterior part of the crus cerebelli, where they are separated by a slight interval. The anterior is much smaller than the posterior, and the two toge- ther constitute the fifth nerve, which, in this situation, consists of seventy to a hundred filaments held together by pia mater and en- closed in a sheath of the arachnoid membrane. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the tentorium, near the extremity of the petrous bone, and spreads out into a large semi- lunar ganglion, the Casserian. If the ganglion be turned over, it will be seen that the anterior root lies against its under surface with- out having any connexion with it, and may be followed onwards to the inferior maxillary nerve. The Casserian ganglion divides into three branches, the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. * I have adopted the origin of this nerve, given by Dr. Alcock, of Dublin, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, as the result of his dissec- tions. Mr. Mayo also traces the anterior root of the nerve to a similar origin.