ULNAR ARTERY. 346 covered in by the superficial layer of muscles of the forearm and by the median nerve. In the second part of its course, it is placed upon the flexor profundus and pronator quadratus, lying between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum. While crossing the annular ligament it is protected from injury by a strong tendi- nous arch, thrown over it from the pisiform bone; and in the palm it rests upon the tendons of the flexor sublimis, being covered in by the palmaris brevis muscle and palmar fascia. It is accompanied in its course by the vense comites, and is in relation with the ulnar nerve for the lower two-thirds of its extent; the nerve lying to its ulnar side. The Branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged, like those of the radial, into three groups : Forearm, ' Anterior ulnar recurrent. Posterior ulnar recurrent, T . ( Anterior interosseous, interosseous, i -n . • • . ' ^ rostenor interosseous. Muscular. ( Carpea anterior. Wrist, \ Carpea posterior, Hand \ ^*^^^^^i^^*i^§> ( Metacarpea. \ Digitales. The Anterior ulnar recurrent arises immediately below the elbow, and ascends in front of the joint between the pronator radii teres and brachialis anticus, where it distributes branches to the muscles, and inosculates with the anastomotica magna and inferior profunda. The two recurrent arteries frequently arise by a common trunk. The Posterior ulnar recurrent, larger than the preceding, arises immediately below the elbow-joint, and passes backwards beneath the origins of the superficial layer of muscles; it then ascends be- tween the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, lying beneath the ulnar nerve, and inosculates with the inferior profunda, anastomotica magna, and interosseous recurrent. The Interosseous artery is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar, opposite the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and passes backwards to the interosseous membrane, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous artery. The Anterior interosseous (interossea interna) passes down the forearm upon the interosseous membrane, between the flexor pro- fundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and behind the pronator quadratus; it then passes through an opening in the interosseous membrane to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. The anterior interosseous artery gives off several muscular branches; nutrient branches to the radius and ulna; a companion branch to the