STOMACH.—SMALL INTESTINES. 603 region, and cylindrical in the rest of its course ; its largest diameter being met with near the lower part of its course ; it is connected by loose cellular tissue to surrounding parts. THE STOMACH. The stomach is an expansion of the alimentary canal, situated in the left hypochondriac and epigastric region, and, for a small ex- tent, in the right hypochondriac region. It is directed somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from left to right, and from be- hind forwards ; and in the female, from tight-lacing, is longer than in the male. On account of the peculiarity of its form, it is divided into a greater or splenic, and ,a lesser or pyloric end; a lesser cur- vature above, and a greater curvature below ; an anterior and a posterior surface; a cardiac orifice, and a pyloric orifice. The great end (fundus) is not only of large size, but expands beyond the point of entrance of the oesophagus, and is embraced by the con- cave surface of the spleen; it presents superiorly a funnel shaped expansion, leading to the cardiac orifice. The pylorus (janitor) is the small and contracted extremity of the organ; it is situated on a plane anterior and inferior to the cardiac orifice, and lies in contact wilih the under surface of the liver, often reaching to the gall- bladder. Near the lesser end is a dilatation, the antrum of the pylorus. The two curvatures give attachment to the peritoneum ; the upper curve to the lesser omentum, the lower to the great omentum. The anterior surface looks upward and forward, and is in relation with the diaphragm, (which separates it from the viscera of the thorax and six lower ribs,) with the left lobe of the liver, and in the epigastric region with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface looks downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the diaphragm, pancreas, third portion of the duodenum, transverse mesocolon, left kidney, and left supra-renal capsule; this surface forms the anterior boundary of that cul-de-sac of the peritoneum which is situated behind the lesser omentum and extends into the greater omentum. In a state of distention, as after a meal, the an- terior surface becomes superior, and the greater curvature is directed forwards against the abdominal parietes. Meckel estimates the ca- pacity of the stomach at one foot square; when moderately full it is capable of holding from five to ten pints of fluid. SMALL INTESTINES. The small intestine {intestinum tenue) is about twenty or twenty- five feet in length, and is divisible into three portions, duodermm, jejunum, and ileum. Th.Q Duodenum, (called SiodtKadaKrvXav by Herophilus,) larger and more deeply seated than the rest of the small intestine, has re- ceived its name from being about equal in length to the breadth of