601 PHARYNX, the mucous membrane of tlie floor of the mouth, on each side of the frsenum linguse. It is in relation at the frsenum with its fellow of the opposite side, and in the rest of its course lies between the lower jaw and genio-hyo-glossus, being bounded below by the mylo-hyoi- deus. It is in relation also with the duct of the submaxillary gland and the hypoglossal nerve. Its secretion is poured into the mouth by from seven to twenty short ducts {ductus Riviniani), which open upon the ridge made by the gland in the floor of the mouth ; the larger openings being situ- ated by the side of the fragnum lingua. One of the ducts longer than the rest, and opening close to Wharton's duct, has been named ductus Bartholini. Structure.—The salivary are conglomerate glands, consisting of lobes, which are made up of polyhedral lobules, and these of smaller lobules. The smallest lobule is apparently composed of granules (acini), which are minute caecal pouches, formed by the dilatation of the ex- treme ramifications of the ducts. These minute ducts unite to form lobular ducts, and the lobular ducts constitute by their union a single excretory duct. The csecal pouches are connected by cellular tissXie, so as to form a minute lobule; the lobules and larger lobes are held together by a more condensed, but lax cellular layer. The submaxillary and sublingual glands are looser in structure and their lobules are larger than those of the parotid gland. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is abundantly supplied with arteries by the external carotid; the submaxillary by the facial and lingual; and the sublingual by the sublingual and sub- mental branches of the lingual artery. The Nerves of the parotid gland are derived from the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles accompanying the external caro- tid artery. The submaxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary ganglion, sympathetic, and by filaments from the mylo-hyoidean nerve ; and the sublingual by filaments from the submaxillary ganglion and gustatory nerve. PHARYNX. The pharynx {(pdpvy^, the throat) is a musculo-membranous sac, about four inches in length, situated upon the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and extending from the base of the skull to a point corresponding with the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. It is composed of mucous mem- brane, muscles, and a strong aponeurosis; and communicates in front with the cavity of the nose, mouth, and larynx. Above it is attached partly by muscle, but chiefly by aponeurosis, to the basOar process of the occipital bone and petrous portion of the temporal, and below it is continuous with the oesophagus.