654 STKTJCTURE OP THE TESTIS. Higlimorianum*), from which numerous fibrous cords (trabeculse, septula) are given ofi, to be inserted into the inner surface of the tunic. The mediastinum serves to contain the vessels and ducts of the testicle in their passage into the substance of the organ, and the fibrous cords are admirably fitted to prevent compression of the gland. If a transverse section be made of the testis, and the surface of the mediastinum examined, it will be ob- served that the blood-vessels of the substance of the organ are situated near the posterior border of the mediastinum, while the divided ducts of the rete testis occupy a ^lace nearer the free margin. The Tunica vasculosa (pia mater testis) is the nutrient mem- brane of the testis; it is situated immediately within the tunica albuginea, and encloses the substance of the gland, sending pro- cesses inwards between the lobules, in the same manner that the pia mater is reflected between the convolutions of the brain. The substance of the testis consists of numerous conical flattened lohules (lobuli testis), the bases being directed towards the surface of the organ, and the apices towards the mediastinum. Krause found between four and five hundred of these lobules in a single testis. Each lobule is invested by a distinct sheath formed of two layers, one being derived from the tunica vasculosa, the other from the tunica albuginea. The lobule is composed of one or several minute tubuli, tubuli seniiniferi,'Y exceedingly convoluted, anastomosing frequently with each other near their extremities, terminating in loops or in free csecal ends, and of the same diameter {yj-^ of an inch, Lauth) throughout. The tubuli seminiferi are of a bright yellow colour; they become less convoluted in the apices of the lobules, and termi- nate by forming between twenty and thirty small straight ducts of about twice the diameter of the tubuli seminiferi, the vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the substance of the mediastinum, and termi- nate in from seven to thirteen ducts, smaller in diameter than the vasa recta. These ducts pursue a waving course from below up- wards through the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum ; they commu- nicate freely with each other, and constitute the rete testis. At the upper extremity of the mediastinum, the ducts of the rete testis ter- minate in from nine to thirty small ducts, the vasa efferentia^X which form by their convolutions a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi; from the bases of these cones tubes of larger size proceed, * Nathaniel Higkmore, a physician of Oxford, in his "Corporis Humani Disquisitio Anatomica," pubHshed in 1651, considers the corpus High- morianiun as a duct formed by the convergence of the fibrous cords, which he mistakes for smaller ducts. t Lauth estimates the whole number of tubuli seminiferi in each testis at 840, and their average length at 2 feet 3 inches. According to this calcula- tion, the whole length of the tubuli semijiiferi would be 1890 feet. X Each vas elferens with its cone measures, according to Lauth, about 8 inches. The entire length of the tubes composing the epididymis, according to the same authority, is about 21 feet.