201 PRiEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. membrane both, by its anterior and ^posterior surface; above, with the levator palati, and helow with the mucous glands situated along the margin of the arch of the palate. In the posterior pillar of the palate, it is surrounded for two-thirds of its extent by mucous mem- brane. In the pharynx, it is in relation by its outer surface with the superior and middle constrictor muscle, and by its inner surface with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the pharyngeal fascia being interposed. Actions.—The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally so as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares. Taking its fixed point from below, the tensor palati will dilate the Eustachian tube. The palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus con- strict the opening of the fauces, and by drawing down the soft palate, serve to press the mass of food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx.' Seventh Group.—Prcevertebral Muscles. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus anticus. Scalenus posticus, ; Longus colli. Dissection.—These muscles have already been exposed by the removal of the face from the anterior aspect of the vertebral column; all that is further needed is the removal of the fascia by which they are inviested. The Rectus anticus major (trachelo-suboccipitalis), broad and thick above, narrow and pointed below, arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse; and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior cervical ganglion and trunk of the sympathetic nerve, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerve. By its 2^osterior surface with the rectus anticus minor, and superior cervical vertebrae; internally with the longus colli, and externally with the scaleni. The Rectus anticus minor arises from the anterior border of the lateral mass of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process; its fibres being directed obliquely upwards and inwards. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the rectus anticus major, and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. By its posterior surface with the articulation of the condyle of the occipital bone with the atlas, and anterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Scalenus anticus (costo-trachelius) is a triangular muscle, as its name implies, situated at the root of the neck, and appearing