669 F(ETAL CIRCULATION. buted to the left lobe. 2ndly, A single branch, which communicates with the portal vein in the transverse fissure, and supplies the right lobe. 3rdly, A large branch, the ductus venosus, which passes di- rectly backwards, and joins the inferior cava. In the inferior cava the pure blood becomes mixed with that which is retumj.ng from the lower extremities and abdominal viscera, and is carried through the right auricle (guided by the Eustachian valve) and through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle into the aorta, whence it is distributed by means of the carotid and subclavian ar- teries, principally to the head and upper extremities. From the head and upper extremities, the impure blood is returned by the superior vena cava to the right auricle ; from the right auricle, it is propelled into the right ventricle ; and from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery. In the adult, the blood would now be cir- culated through the lungs, and oxygenated; but in the foetus the lungs are solid, and almost impervious. Only a small quantity of the blood passes therefore into the lungs ; the greater part courses through the ductus arteriosus, into the commencement of the de- scending aorta, where it becomes mingled with that portion of the pure blood which is not sent through the carotid and subclavian arteries. Passing along the aorta, a small quantity of this mixed blood is distributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities; the greater portion is conveyed by the internal iliac, hypogastric, and umbilical arteries to the placenta; the hypogastric arteries pro- ceeding from the internal iliacs, and passing by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and upwards along the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, where they become the umbilical arteries. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we perceive—1st. That the pure blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abundant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in comparison with other viscera. 2ndly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of a double current; the one coming from the inferior cava, the other from the superior, and that they must cross each other in their respective blood from the head and upper extremities through the jugular and subcla- vian veins, to the superior vena cava (14), to the right auricle (8), and in the course of the arrow through the right ventricle (15), to the pxilmonary artery (16). 17. The ductus arteriosus, which appears to be a proper continuation of the pulmonary artery, the offsets at each side are the right and left pul- monary artery cut off; these are of extremely small size as compared with the ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus joins the descending aorta (18, 18), which divides into the common ihacs, and these into the internal ihaes, which become the hypogastric arteries (19), and return the blood along the umbihcal cord to the placenta; while the other divisions, the external ihacs (20), are continued into the lower extremities. The arrows at the termina- tions of these vessels mark the return of the venous blood by the veins to the inferior cava.