POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 377 The Posterior peroneal continties onwards along the posterior aspect of the outer malleolus to the side of the OS calcis, to which and to the muscles arising from it, it distri- butes external calcanean branches. It anastomoses with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and posterior tibial artery; with the latter by means of a small transv^se branch (r. anastomoticus trans versus). The Nutritious artery (nutritia tibise) of the tibia arises from the trunk of the posterior tibial, fre- quently above the origin of the pe- roneal, and proceeds to the nutri- tious canal, which it traverses ob- liquely from below upwards. The Muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are distri- buted to the soleus and deep mus- cles on the posterior aspect of the leg. One of these branches is deserving of notice, a recurrent Fig. 148.* * Posterior view of tlie leg, showing /4-' the popliteal and posterior tibial ar- tery. 1. Tendons of the inner hamstring, 2. Tendon of the biceps, forming the outer hamstring. 3. PopHteus muscle. 4. Flexor longus digitorum. 5. Tibialis posticus. 6, The fibula; immediately below the number is the origin of the flexor longus pollicis; the muscle has been removed in order to expose the peroneal artery. 7. Peronei muscles, longus and brevis. 8. Lower part of the flexor longus poUicis muscle with its tendon. 9, The popliteal artery giving oW its articular and muscular branches; the two superior articular are seen in the upper part of the popliteal space passing above the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, which are cut through near their origin. The two inferior are in relation with the popKteus muscle. 10. An- terior tibial artery passing through the angular interspace between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle. 11. Posterior tibial artery. 12. The relative position of the tendons and artery at the inner anlde from within outwards, previously to their passing beneath the internal annular ligament. 13. The peroneal artery, dividing, a little below the number, into two branches; the anterior peroneal is seen piercing the interosseous membrane. 14. Posterior peroneal.