SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 465 hranch is distributed to the mucous membrane; and the external branch, passing outwards between the nasal bone and cartilage, supplies the integument of the exterior of the nose as far as its tip. The Branches of the nasal nerve are the ganglionic, ciliary, and infra-trochlear. The ga/nglimvic hranch, about half an inch in length and of small size, enters the upper angle of the ophthalmic ganglion, and consti- tutes its superior or long root. The long ciliary branches are two or three filaments given o& from the nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the sclerotic coat near the short ciliary nerves, and passing through the globe of the eye between the sclerotic and choroid, are distributed to the iris. The infra-trochlear branch is given off close to the anterior eth- moidal foramen. It passes forwards along the upper border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and is distributed to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit. The Superior maxillary nerve, larger than the preceding, is the nerve of sensation of the teeth of the upper jaw, the hard and so^t palate, tonsils, antrum maxillare, and muscles and integument of' the lower eyelid, cheek, and upper lip. Proceeding from the middle of the Casserian ganglion, it passes forward through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along which it runs to the infra- orbital foramen. Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris muscle, it divides into a number of branches, which form a plexus with the facial nerve. The Branches of the superior maxillary nerve are divisible into three groups : namely, those given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa ; those given off in the infra-orbital canal; and those given off on the face. They may be thus arranged : The Orbital or temporo-malar branch enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches, tem- poral and malar ; the temporal branch ascends along the outer wall of the orbit, and after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal in the malar bone, and enters the temporal fossa; it then pierces the temporal muscle and fascia, and is distri- buted to the integument of the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and anterior temporal nerve. In the Spheno-maxillary fossa, Infra-orbital canal On the face Orbital, or temporo-malar, Spheno-palatine, Posterior dental. Middle dental, Anterior dentaL Muscular, Cutaneous. H H