A Manual of Physiology : Including Physiological Anatomy, for the use of the Medical Student. By W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.K.S. Second Edition, with numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. The Anatomisfs Vade-Mecum: A System of Human Anatomy. By Erasmus Wilson, F.K.S. Sixth Edition, with numerous Illustrations on Wood. " This is probably the prettiest medical book ever published, and we believe that its intrinsic merits are in keeping with its exterior advantages; it may be recommended to the student as no less distinguished by its accuracy and clearness of description than its typographical elegance. The woodcuts are exquisite."—British and FoEEiGif Medical Eeview. Elements of Natural Philosophy. Being an Experimental Introduction to the study of the Physical Sciences. By Golding Bird, M.D., F.K.S., and Charles Brooke, F.K.S. Fourth Edition, illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. " By the appearance of Dr. Bird's work, the student has now all that he can desire in one neat, concise, and well-digested volume. The elements of natural philosophy are explained in very simple language, and illustrated by numerous woodcuts."—Medical Gazette. Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery. By Wharton Jones, F.K.S. Illustrated with numerous Engra- vings, plain and coloured. A Manual of Medical Jurisprudence. By Alfred S. Taylor, F.K.S. Fourth Edition. " We recommend Mr. Taylor's -work as the ablest, most comprehensive, and, above all, the most practically useful book which exists on the subject of legal medicine. Any man of somid judgment, who has mastered the con- tents of Taylor's 'Medical Jurisprudence,' may go into a court of law with the most perfect confidence of being able to acquit himself creditably." Medico-Chieukgical Eeview. On Poisons; In Kelation to Medical Jurisprudence and Medicine. By Alfred S. Taylor, F.K.S. " With regard to the merits of this treatise, we think that we cannot do them greater justice than by requesting the profession to peruse the work, and then to form their own judgment of the labour which must have been devoted to the collection of its materials, of the spirit in which the research ■ has been conducted, and of the practical results which have been attained by the inquiry."—Medical Gazette.