99 PELVIS. -side by tlie ossa ilii, and separated from the true pelvis by the linea iliopectinea. The true pelvis is all that portion Avhich is situated below the linea iliopectinea. This line forms the margin or hrim of the true pelvis, while the included area is called the inlet. The form of the inlet is heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front at the symphysis pubis, expanded on each side, and encroached upon be- hind by a projection of the upper part of the sacrum, which is named the promontory. The cavity is somewhat encroached upon at each side by a smooth quadrangular plane of bone, corresponding with the internal surface of the acetabulum, and leading to the spine of the ischium. In front are two fossae around the obturator foramina, for lodging the obturator internus muscle at each side. The inferior termination of the pelvis is very irregular, and is termed the outlet. It is bounded, in front, by the convergence of the rami of the ischium and pubes, which constitute the arch of the pubes; on each side by the tuberosity of the ischium, and two irregular fissures formed by the greater and lesser sacro-ischiatic notches : and behind by the lateral borders of the sacrum, and the coccyx. The pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trunk of the body, the inner surface of the ossa pubis being directed upwards, and serving to support the weight of the abdominal viscera. The base of the sacrum rises nearly four inches above the level of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx somewhat more than half an inch above its lower border. If a line were carried through the central axis of the inlet, it would impinge by one extremity against the umbUicus, and by the other against the middle of the coccyx. The axis of the inlet is, therefore, directed downwards and backwards, while that of the outlet points dowmvdrds and fortvards, and corresponds with a line drawn from the upper part of the sacrum, through the centre of the outlet. The axis of the cavity represents a curve, corresponding very nearly with the curve of the sacrum, the extremities being indicated by the cen- tral points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the direction of these axes is important to the surgeon, as indicating the line in which instruments should be used in operations upon the viscera of the pelvis, and the direction of force in the removal of calculi from the bladder; and to the accoucheur, as explaining the course taken by the foetus during parturition. There are certain characteristic differences between the male and female pelvis. In the male the bones are thicker, stronger, and more solid, the cavity being deeper and narrower. In the female the bones are lighter and more delicate, the iliac fossse large, and the ilia expanded; the inlet, outlet, and cavity are large, and the acetabula farther removed from each other; the cavity is shallow, the tuberosities widely separated, the obtui-ator foramina triangular, and the span of the pubic arch greater. The precise diameter of the inlet and outlet, and the depth of the cavity, are important con- siderations to the accoucheur. H 2