4 EIGHT AURICLE, 667 stretching across the mouth of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux of blood in the vein during contraction of the auricle. The Annulus ovalis is situated on the septum auricularum, opposite the termination of the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, which occupies the place of the foramen ovale of the foetus. The Fossa ovalis is an oval depression corresponding with the foramen ovale of the foetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus, and is frequently imperfect at its upper part. The depres- * Anatomy of the heart; the organ is viewed upon the right side. 1. Cavity of the right auricle. 2. Appendix auriculae, in the cavity of which the mus- culi pectinati are seen. 3. Superior vena cava, opening into the upper part of the right auricle. 4. Inferior vena cava. 5. Fossa ovalis; the prominent ridge surrounding it is the annulus ovalis. 6. Eustachian valve. 7. Open- ing of the coronary vein. 8. Coronary valve. 9. Entrance of the auriculo- ventrieular opening. Between the numbers 1 and 9, two or three of the foramina Thebesii are seen. a. Eight ventricle, b, c. Cavity of the right ventricle, on the walls of which the columnae carneae are seen; e is placed in the channel leading upwards to the pulmonary artery, d. e, f. Tricuspid valve; e is placed on the anterior curtain,/"on the right curtain, g. Long columna carnea, to the apex of which the anterior and right curtains of the tricuspid valve are connected by chordae tendinese. A. The " long moderator band." i. The two columnae carneae of the right curtain. Tc. The attachment by chordae tendinese of the left limb of the anterior curtain. I, I. Chordae tendineae of the "fixed curtain" of the valve, m. Valve of the pulmonary artery. The letter of reference is placed on the inferior semilunar segment. n. Apex of the left appendix auriculae, o. Left ventricle, 'p. Ascending aorta, g-. Its transverse portion, with the three arterial trunks which arise from the arch. r. The descending aorta. Mg. 194.*