SPINAL CORD. 452 The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis; the roots of the spinal nerves; and the membranes of the cord, viz. the dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and membrana dentata. The Dura mater spinalis (theca vertebralis) is a cylindrical sheath of fibrous membrane, identical in structure with the dura mater of the skull, and continuous with that membrane. At the margin of the occipital foramen it is closely adherent to the bone; by its anterior surface it is attached to the posterior common liga- ment, and below, by means of its pointed extremity, to the coccyx. In the rest of its extent it is comparatively free, being connected, by a loose cellular tissue, to the walls of the spinal canal. In this cellular tissue there exists a quantity of reddish, oily, adipose sub- stance, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side and below, the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid; and on its sides may be seen double openings for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves. The Arachnoid is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender filaments* of cellular tissue, and by a longitudinal lamella which is attached to the posterior aspect of the cord. The cellular tissue is most abundant in the cervical region, and diminishes in quantity from above downwards ; and the longitudinal lamella is complete only in the dorsal region. The arachnoid passes off from the cord on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath; and is then reflected on the dura mater, to constitute its serous surface. A connexion exists in several places between the arachnoid of the cord and that of the dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the sub-arachnoidcan space. It is occupied by a serous fluid, sufii- cient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the theca vertebralis. The siib-arachnoidean or cerebro- spinal fluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure on the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the advantage of the principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hydrostatic bed. The Pia mater is the immediate investment of the cord; and, like the other membranes, is continuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane; but is dense and fibrous in structure, and contains but few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a duplicature into the anterior median fissure, and another, extremely delicate, into the posterior * According to Mr. Eainey these filaments are nervous fasciculi having their origin in the arachnoid, and passing to the arteries of the cord. See page 428.