423 ORIGIN OF NERVES. tory, are in like manner traced to tlie posterior segment of the cord, and form part of the system of sensation. To these two systems a third was added by Sir Charles Bell, the respiratory system, which consists of nerves associated in the function of respi- ration, and arising from the side of the upper part of the spinal cord in one continuous line, which he thence named the respiratory tract. The microscope has failed in making out any structural dis- tinction between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; but the latter are remarkable for the possession of a ganglion near their attachment with the cord. This ganglion is observed upon the posterior roots of all the spinal nerves, and also upon the corresponding root of the fifth cranial nerve, which is thence considered a spinal cranial nerve. Upon others of the cranial nerves a ganglion is found, which associates them in function with the nerves of sensation, and establishes an analogy with the spinal nerves. According to Mr. Grrainger, both roots of the spinal nerves, as well as those of most of the cerebral, divide into two sets of fibres upon entering the cord, one set being connected with the grey substance, whilie the other is continuous with its white or fibrous part. The former he considers to be the agents of the excito-motory system of Dr. Marshall Hall; and the latter, a communication with the brain and the medium of transmission of sensation a,nd volition. He has not. been able to trace the fibres which enter the grey substance to their termination; but he thinks it probable that the ultimate fibres of the posterior root join those of the anterior root; or in the words of Dr. Marshall Hall's system, that the incident fibres (sensitive) are continuous with the reflex (motor). The connexion of a nerve with the cerebro-spinal axis is called, for convenience of description, its origin ; this term must not, how- ever, be taken literally, for each nerve is developed in the precise situation which it occupies in the body, and with the same relations that it possesses in after life. Indeed, we not unfrequently meet with instances in anencephalous foetuses, where the nerves are com- pletely formed, while the brain and spinal cord are wanting. The word "origin" must therefore be considered as a relic of the dark- ness of bygone ages, when the cerebro-spinal axis was looked upon as the tree from which the nerves pushed forth as branches. In their distrihution the spinal nerves for the most part follow the course of the arteries, particularly in the limbs, where they lie almost constantly to the outer side of and superficially to the vessels, as if for the purpose of receiving the first intimation of danger, and com- municating it to the muscles, that the latter may instantly remove the arteries from impending injury. The Sympathetic system consists of numerous ganglia, of commu- nicating branches passing between the ganglia, of others passing between the ganglia and the cerebro-spinal axis, and of branches of distribution which are remarkable for their frequent and plexiform