MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 226 The internal oblique muscle is to be removed by separating it from its attachments to the ribs above, the crest of the ilium and Poupart's ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned forwards. Some degree of care will be required in per- forming this dissection, from the dif&culty of distinguishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of cellular tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the. crest of the ilium the circumflexa ilii artery ascends between the two muscles, and forms a guide to their separation; but just above Poupart's ligament they are so closely connected, that separation is impossible. The Transversalis (lumbo-abdominalis) is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen; and is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as implied in its name. It arises from somewhat less than ►the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the internal lip of the crest of the ilium, its anterior two-thirds ; from the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae, and from the inner surface of the six inferior costal cartilages. As high as the fourth or fifth rib it is continuous with the diaphragm, and above this point, with the triangularis sterni. Its lower fibres curve downwards, to be in- serted, with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, into the pecti- neal line, and form the conjoined tendon. Throughout the rest of its extent it is inserted into the crest of the pubes, linea alba and ensiform cartilage. The loioer fourth of its aponeurosis passes in front of the rectus to the linea alba; the upper three-fourths, with the posterior lamella of the internal oblique behind it. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis divides into two lamellae, anterior and posterior, which constitute the fascia lum- horum. The anterior lamella is attached to the ba^ of the trans- verse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, the posterior to their apices, the two layers enclosing and forming a sheath for the quadratus lumborum muscle. The posterior layer receives the attachment of the posterior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, and farther back, near the border of the erector spinse, it becomes united with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. It thus assists in the formation of a second sheath, which encloses the erector spinge, the anterior boundary of that sheath being the posterior lamella of the transver- salis, the posterior boundary the aponeurosis of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal oblique, the internal surface of the six lower ribs, and internal intercostal muscles. By its internal surface with the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the peritoneum, witli the psoas magnus, the lower part of the rectus, and pyramidalis. The spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the loiver border, but have no direct relation with it.