156 KNEE JOINT, into three slips ; one, a strong cord, ascends obliquely forwards, and is inserted into tlie anterior part of the inner condyle of the femur in front of the posterior crucial ligament; another is the fasciculus of insertion into the fossa of the spinous process ; and the third, of small size, is continuous with the posterior part of the anterior (a-ucial ligament. The ligamentum mucosum is a slender conical process of synovial membrane enclosing a few ligamentous fibres which proceed from the transverse ligament. It is connected, by its apex, with the anterior part of the condyloid notch, and by its base is lost in the mass of fat which projects into the joint beneath the patella. The alar ligaments are two fringed folds of synovial membrane, extending from the ligamentum mu- cosum, along the edges of the mass of fat to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane of the knee joint is by far the most exten- sive in the body. It invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the con- dyles of the femur, head of tibia, and inner surface of the patella; it covers both surfaces of the semilu- nar fibrocartilages; and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and inner surface of the ligaments which form the circumference of the joint. On each side of the patella, it lines the tendinous aponeuroses of the vastus internus and vastus extemus * A longitudinal section of the left knee joint, showing the reflections of its synovial membrane. 1. The cancel- lous structure of the lower part of the femur. 2. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. 3. The patella. 4. The ligamentum patellae. 5. The can- cellous structure of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patellae and the head of the tibia. 7. The mass of fat projecting into the cavity of the joint below the patella. ** The synovial membrane. 8. The pouch of synovial mem- brane which ascends between the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, and the front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar liga- ments ; the other has been removed with the opposite section. 10. The liga- mentum mucosum left entire ; the section being made to its inner side. 11. Anterior or external crucial ligament. 12. Posterior Kgameut. The scheme of the synovial membrane, which is here presented to the student, is divested of all unnecessary compUcatious. It may be traced from the sac- culus (at 8), along the inner surface of the patella; then over the adipose mass (7) from which it throws off the mucous ligament (10); then over the head of the tibia, forming a sheath to the crucial ligaments; then upwards along the posterior ligament and condyles of the femiu', to the sacculus whence its examination commenced. Fig. 87 *