OBTUEATOK NERVE. 499 muscle; and crossing tlie iliacus, upon the iliac fascia, to the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh, beneath Poupart's ligament, where it divides into two branches, an- terior and posterior. The posterior branch crosses the tensor vaginse femoris muscle to the outer and posterior side of the thigh, and supplies the integu- ment in that region. The anterior nerve, after passing for three or four inches down the thigh in a sheath formed by the fascia lata, becomes superficial, and divides into two branches, which are distributed to the integu- ment of the outer border of the thigh, and to the articulation of the knee. The Obturator nerve is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve, and is distributed to the obturator externus and adductor muscles of the thigh, the hip and knee joint, the femoral and popliteal artery, and sometimes to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg. From its origin it takes its course among the fibres of the psoas muscle, through the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac vessels, and along the inner border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obturator artery. Having escaped from the' pelvis, it divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The anterior branch passes downwards in front of the adductor brevis, supplies that muscle together with the pectineus, gracilis, and adductor longus, and at the lower border of the latter unites with the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerve, to form a plexus. It then passes onwards to the femoral artery, to which it distributes filaments. In its course this nerve gives off an articular branch to the hip-joint; and a cutaneous branch, which pierces the fascia lata at the knee, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg as far as its middle. This branch is often wanting, its place being supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve, and sometimes by the access6ry obturator. The posterior branch pierces the obturator externus muscle, to which and to the adductor magnus it distributes branches; it also gives off an articular branch which pierces the adductor magnus muscle, and accompanies the popliteal artery to the knee-joint. The A ccessory obturator nerve, small and inconstant, is a high division of the obturator, being sometimes derived from it near its origin, and sometimes by separate filaments from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It passes down the inner border of the psoas muscle, crosses the os pubis, and dips beneath the pectineus, where it divides into branches. One of its branches is distributed to the pectineus, another supplies the hip-joint, while a third com- municates with the anterior branch of the olaturator nerve, and K K 2