305 PLANTER FASCIA. half an inch in width, blended with each other at their point of union on the front of the joint. The internal band is attached above to the internal malleolus and below to the os calcis on the outer side of the foot; the external band to the external malleolus above, and the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bone on the inner border of the foot. The internal band at its origin consists of two layers, between which passes the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The tendons of the ex- tensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius have also a separate loop connected with the cruciform ligament, the sling ligament (fundiforme) of Retzius; this is a narrow band which embraces the tendons in a sling-shaped loop, and passes outwards and backwards to be attached to the sulcus tali and neighbouring part of the calca- neum. The tendons passijDg through the loops and sheaths around the ankle are each furnished with a synovial bursa. That portion of the fascia cruralis which forms a septum between the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg is sometimes called the intermuscular fascia; and in operations on the arteries of that region the deep layer of the deep fascia. There is besides another deep portion of fascia, above the preceding, the popliteal fascia, derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle and binding down the popliteus muscle. By its inferior border this fascia is inserted into the popliteal line of the tibia. The/ascioB dorsales pedis are three in number, superficial, middle, and deep. The fascia dorsalis pedis is thin and covers the dorsum of the foot, being continuous at the ankle with the cruciform ligament, and attached on either side to the borders of the foot, where it becomes united with the plantar fascia. A second or middle layer of fascia is found covering -ia the anterior part of the extensor brevis digi- torum with its tendons; and a third or deep layer is found beneath the latter, and covering in the interossei muscles. On the interossei muscles the three layers are united, and the extensor tendons are consequently separated from each other in their course to the toes. The Plantar fascia consists of three portions, middle and two lateral. The middle portion (fascia plantaris media) is thick and dense, and composed of strong aponeurotic fibres, closely interwoven with each other. It is attached posteriorly to the inferior surface of the tuberosities of the os calcis, and terminates under the heads of the metatarsal bones in five fasciculi. Each of these fasciculi embraces the base of the corresponding toe, and is attached in the middle to the sheath of the flexor tendons, and at either side to the head of the metatarsal bone. The point of division of the fascia into fasciculi is strengthened by transverse bands, which preserve the solidity of the fascia at its broadest part. The intervals between the toes give passage to the digital arteries and nerves and lumbricales muscles. The lateral portions (interna et externa) are thin, and cover the sides of the sole of the foot; they are continuous behind with the in- X