429 CEEEBRUM, Pia mater. The Pia mater is a vascular membrane composed of innumerable vessels held together by a thin layer of cellular tissue. It invests the whole surface of the brain, dipping into the sulci between the convolutions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum inter- positum. It also forms folds in other situations, as in the third and fourth ventricles, and in the longitudinal fissures of the spinal cord. This membrane differs in structure in different parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, in con- tact with the soft grey matter of the brain, it is extremely vascular, forming remarkable loops of anastomoses in the interspaces of the convolutions, and distributing multitudes of minute straight vessels (tomentum cerebri) to the grey substance. In the substantia per- forata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives off tufts of small arteries, which pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. But upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, its vascular character seems almost lost. It has be- come a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the proper sheath of the spinal cord. The' pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the brain, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Its Nerves are the minute filaments of the sympathetic, which accompany the branches of the arteries. CEREBRUM. The Cerebrum presents on its surface a number of slightly convex elevations, the convolutions (gyri), which are separated from each other by sulci of various depth. * It is divided superiorly into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original development of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Each hemisphere, upon its under surface, admits of a division into three lobes, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by the fissure of Sylvius, f The middle lobe is received into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and is separated from the posterior by a slight impression produced by the ridge of the petrous bone. The posterior lobe is supported by the tentorium. If the upper part of one hemisphere, at about one-third from its * In estimating the surface of the brain, which, according to Baillarger, averages in round numbers, 670 square inches, these convolutions and the laminae of the cerebellum are supposed to be unfolded. t James Dubois, a celebrated professor of anatomy in Paris, where he succeeded Vidius in 1550, although known much earlier by his works and discoveries, but particularly by Ms violence in the defence of Galen. His name was latinised to Jacobus Sylvius.