CERVICAL VERTEBRA. each side from the laminge of the vertebra; they also are intended for the attachment of muscles. The articular four in. number, stand upwards and downwards from the laminae, to arti- culate with the vertebra above and below. Cervical Vertebrce.—In a cer- vical vertebra the body is smaller than in the other regions ; it is thicker before than behind, broad from side to side, concave on the upper surface, and convex below; so that, when articu- lated, the vertebrae lock the one into the other. The laminm are narrow and long, and the included spinal foramen large and triangular. The superior in- tervertebral notches are slightly deeper than the inferior; the inferior being the broadest. The spinous process is short and bifid at the extremity, increasing in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are also short and bifid, and deeply grooved along the upper surface for the cervical nerves. Piercing the base of the transverse process is the vertebral foramen, f which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein, and vertebral plexus of nerves. The transverse processes in this region are formed by two small developments, which proceed, the one from the side of the body, the other from the pedicle of the lamina, and unite near their extremities to enclose the circular area of the vertebral foramen. The anterior of these developments is the rudiment of a cervical rib; and the posterior, the analogue of the transverse processes in the dorsal region. The extremities of these developments are the anterior and posterior tubercles of the trans- verse process. The articular processes are oblique; the superior look- ing upwards and backwards; the inferior, downwards and forwards. There are three peculiar vertebrae in the cervical region:—The first, or atlas; the second, or axis; and the seventh, or vertebra prominens. The Atla^ (named from supporting the head) is a simple ring of * A central cervical vertebra, seen upon its upper surface. 1. The body, concave in the middle, and rising on each side into a sharp ridge. 2. The lamina. 3. The pedicle, rendered concave by the superior intervertebral notch. 4. The bifid spinous process. 5. The bifid transverse process. The figure is placed in the concavity between the anterior and posterior tubercle, between the tvFO processes which correspond with the rudimentary rib and the true transverse process. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular process, looking backwards and upwards. 8. The inferior articular process. t Sometimes, as in a vertebra now before me, a smaU additional opening exists by the side of the vertebral foramen, in which case it is traversed by a second vein.