THYROID GLAND. 584 posterior part. The first ring is received within the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, and is broader than the rest; the last is broad at the middle in consequence of the prolongation of the lower border into a triangular process which curves backwards at the point of bifurcation. The posterior extremities of the rings are rounded, and occasionally one or two rings will be found to bifurcate. The Fibrous membrane connects the rings and forms a thin covering to them on the outer surface. Internally it does not reach the surface, and the rings have in consequence an appearance of greater prominence. It also stretches across between the rings on the posterior part of the trachea. The Muscular fibres are disposed transversely across the space, between the extremities of the rings behind. They are placed in- ternally to the fibrous membrane. The Elastic fibrous tissue is disposed in longitudinal bundles, within the rings ; and, behind, internally to the muscular layer. The Mucous membrane, which is pale, forms the internal lining of the tube, find has opening upon its surface the excretory tubes of numerous mucous glands. The Mucous glands are small ovoid bodies situated externally to the fibrous membrane, and between that membrane and the muscular layer behind, and in the substance of the fibrous membrane between the rings. Their ducts open upon the mucous membrane. THYROID GLAND. The thyroid gland or body is one of those organs which it is dif&cult to classify, from the absence of any positive knowledge with regard to its function. It is situated upon the trachea, and in an anatomical arrangement may therefore be considered in this place, although bearing no part in the function of respiration. This gland consists of two lobes, which are placed one on each side of the trachea, and are connected with each other by means of an isthmus, which crosses its upper rings, usually the third and fourth ; but in this respect there is some variety, a point necessary to be re- membered in operations on the trachea. The lobes are somewhat conical in shape, being larger below than above, and the smaller end is continued upwards to the side of the thyroid cartilage. The isthmus is connected with the lower third of the two lobes, and often gives origin to a process of variable length and size, called the pyra- mid or third lobe. The pyramid is generally situated on the left side of the isthmus and is sometimes derived from the left lobe. The left lobe is somewhat smaller than the right, the weight of the entire gland being about one ounce and a half. It is, however, larger in young persons and females than in adult males, and undergoes a slight increase during menstruation. Its permanent enlargement constitutes bronchocele, goitre, or the Derbyshire neck. The structure of the thyroid is of a brownish-red colour, and is composed of a dense aggregation of minute and independent mem-