ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 250 Relations. — In the forearm; by its anterior surface with the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longns pollicis, ulnar artery, veins, and nerve, and median nerve. This muscle frequently sends a fasciculus to the flexor longus pollicis or flexor profundus. In the hand : its tendons, after passing beneath the annular ligament, are in relation superficially with the superficial palmar arch, and palmar fascia; and deeply with the tendons of the deep flexor and lumbricales. The Flexor carpi ulnaris arises by two heads, one from the inner condyle and intermuscular septa, the other from the olecranon and by means of a strong aponeurosis from two-thirds of the inner border of the ulna. Its tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its anterior surf ace ynih. ih.Q deep fascia of the forearm, witli which it is closely united superiorly. By its pos- terior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor profundus, pronator quadratus, ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its radial border with the palmaris longus, and in the lower third of the fore- arm, the ulnar vessels and nerve. The ulnar nerve, and the poste- rior ulnar recurrent artery, pass between its two heads of origin. Deep layer. Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Dissection.—This group is brought into view by removing the flexor sublimis, and drawing aside the pronator radii teres. The Flexor profundus digitorum (perforans) arises from the upper two-thirds of the ulna, its anterior and inner surface and pos- terior border, from the inner side of the olecranon, where it is connected with the aponeurotic expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris and from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane. At the middle of the forearm it divides into four tendons which pass beneath the annular ligament, and on the fingers, between the two slips of the tendons of the flexor sublimis, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanges. In the groove of the cai-pus the tendons are enclosed in a synovial membrane and the three outer tendons communicate with each other by means of small slips, the tendon of the index finger remaining distinct. In the hand, the tendons give origin to the lumbricales muscles, and on the second phalanges they are retained in position by two little tendinous slips, the vincula accessoria. Relations.—In the forearm. By its anterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, median nerve, and