593 PERITONEUM. In tracing the reflexions of tlie peritoneum, in the middle line, we commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layers, one from the parietes in front, anterior, and one from the parietes behind, posterior. These two layers of the same membrane, at the posterior part of the diaphragm, descend to the upper surface of the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liver. They then surround the liver, one going in front, the other behind that viscus, and, meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach, forming the lesser omentum. They then, in the same manner, surround the stomach, and, meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omentum; they then surround the transverse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the trans- verse meso-colon. Here the two layers separate ; the posterior as- cends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the poste- rior part of the diaphragm, where it becomes the posterior layer with which we commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, which it holds in its place by means of a fold called meso-rectum, forms a pouch, the recto-vesical fold, between the rectum and the bladder, ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forming its Mse ligaments, and returns upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen to the diaphragm, whence we first traced it. In the female, after descending into the pelvis in front of the rectum, it is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vagina and uteirus. It then descends on the anterior surface of the uterus, and forms at either side the broad ligaments of that organ. From the uterus it ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, and anterior parietes of the abdomen, and is continued, as in the male, to the diaphragm. In this way the continuity of the peritoneum, as a whole, is dis- tinctly shown, and it matters not where the examination commence or where it terminate, still the same continuity of surface will be discernible throughout. If we trace it from side to side of the abdomen, we may commence at the umbilicus ; we then follow it outwards, lining the inner side of the parietes to the ascending colon; it surrounds that intestine; it then surrounds the small in- testine, and, returning on itself, forms the mesentery. It then invests the descending colon, and reaches the parietes on the oppo- site side of the abdomen, whence it may be traced to the exact point from which we started. The viscera, which are thus shown to be invested by the peri- toneum in its course from above downwards, are the Liver, Stomach, Transverse colon, Small intestines, Pelvic viscera. Q Q