STEKNUM. 75 montli of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua and body soon after birth. Attachment of Muscles.—To eleven pairs: sterno-hyoid, thyro- hyoid, omo-hyoid, pulley of the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glossns, hyo-glossus, lingualis, and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also gives attachment to the stylo- hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments, and to the thyro- hyoidean membrane. THORAX AND UPPER EXTREMITY. The bones of the thorax are the sternum and ribs; and those of the upper extremity, the clavicle, scapula, humerus, ulna and radius, bones of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. Sternum.—The sternum (fig. 42) is situated in the middle line of the front of the chest, and is oblique in direction, the superior end lying within a few inches of the vertebral column, the inferior being projected forwards so as to be placed at a considerable distance from the spine. The bone is flat or slightly concave in front, and marked by five transverse lines which indicate its original subdivision into six pieces. It is convex behind, broad and thick above, flattened and pointed below, and divisible in the adult into three pieces, supe- rior, nkiddle, and inferior. The superior piece or manubrium is nearly quadrilateral; it is broad and thick above, where it presents a concave border (incisura semilunaris), and narrow at its junction with the middle piece. At each superior angle is a deep articular depression (incisura clavicu- laris) for the clavicle, and on either side two notches, for articulation with the cartilage of the first rib, and one half of that of the second. The middle piece or body, considerably longer than the superior, is broad in the middle, and somewhat narrower at each extremity. It presents at either side six articular notches, for the lower half of the second rib, the four next ribs, and the upper half of the seventh. This piece is sometimes perforated by an opening of various magni- tude, resulting from arrest of development. The inferior piece (ensiform or xiphoid cartilage) is the smallest of the three, often merely cartilaginous, and very various in appear- ance, being sometimes pointed, at other times broad and thin, and at other times, again, perforated by a round hole, or bifid. It presents a notch at each side for articulation with the lower half of the carti- lage of the seventh rib. Development.—By a variable number of centres, generally ten, namely, two for the manubrium; one (sometimes two) for the first piece of the body, two for each of the remaining pieces, and one for the ensiform cartilage. Ossification commences towards the end of the fifth month in the manubrium, the two pieces for this part being