MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 202 like a continuation of the rectus anticus major ; it arises from tlie anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is imerted into the tubercle upon the upper and inner border of the first rib. Relations.—By its anterior swface with the stemo-mastoid, omo-hyoid, suprascapular and transversalis colli artery, phrenic nerve, and subclavian vein, by which latter it is separated from the subcla"vius muscle and clavicle. By its posterior surface with the pleura, the nerves which go to form the brachial plexus, and below with the subclavian artery. By its in/ner side with the longus colli, being separated by the vertebral artery ; by its outer side with the make five scaleni. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the brachial plexus and subclavian artery; posteriorly with the levator anguli scapulse, * In a subject dissected in the school of the Middlesex Hospital during the winter of 1841, by Mr. Joseph Kogers, the subclavian artery of the left side was placed with the vein in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. t Prsevertebral group of muscles of the neck. 1. Eectus anticus major. . 2. Scalenus anticus. 3. Lower part of the longus coUi of the right side; it is concealed superiorly by the rectus anticus major. 4. Eectus anticus minor. 5. Upper portion of the longus coUi. 6. Its lower portion; the figure rests on the seventh cervical vertebra. 7. The scalenus medius and posticus. 8. Eectus lateralis of the left side. 9. One of the inter-transversales muscles. Fig. 107.t scalenus medius. Its re- lations with the subclar vian artery and vein are important, the vein being before, the artery behind the muscle.* ^ — J - |\ \ to the second rib between its tubercle and angle. Albinus and Soemmering The Scalenus posticus (scalenus medius and pos- ticus) arises from the pos- terior tubercles of all the cervTical vertebrse except- ing the first. It is inserted by two fleshy fasciculi into the first and second ribs. The anterior of the two fasciculi (scalenus medius) is large, and occupies all the surface of the first rib between the groove for the subclavian artery and the tuberosity. The pos- terior (scalenus posticus) is small, and is attached