575 FIBEES OF THE AUKICLES. The fibres derived from the root of the pulmonary artery, conjoined with those from the base of one of the columns papillares, curve forwards from their origin, and wind obliquely downwards and backwards around the internal surface of the wall of the ventricle to the posterior border of the septum, where they become continuous with the long band, directly that it has passed backwards through the septum. Fibres of the Auricles.—The fibres of the auricles are disposed in two layers, external and internal. The internal layer is formed of fasciculi which arise from the fibrous rings of the auriculo-ventricular openings, and proceed upwards to enlace with each other, and consti- tute the appendices auricularum. These fasciculi are parallel in their arrangement, and in the appendices form projections and give rise to the appearance which is denominated musculi pectinati. In their course they give off branches which connect adjoining fasciculi, and form a columnar interlacement between them. External Layer.—The fibres of the right auricle having completed the appendix, wind from left to right around the right border of this auricle, and along its anterior aspect, beneath the appendix, to the anterior surface of the septum. From the septum they are continued to the anterior surface of the left auricle, where they separate into three bands, superior, anterior, and posterior. The superior band proceeds onwards to the appendix, and encircles the apex of the auricle. The anterior hand passes to the left, beneath the appendix, and winds as a broad layer completely around the base of the auricle, and through the septum to the root of the aorta, to which it is partly attached, and from this point is continued onwards to the appendix, where its fibres terminate by interlacing with the musculi pectinati. The posterior hand crosses the left auricle obliquely to its posterior part, and winds from left to right around its base, encircling the open- ings of the pulmonary veins; some of its fibres are lost on the sur- face of the auricle, others are continued onwards to the base of the aorta; and a third set, forming a small band, are prolonged along the anterior edge of the appendix to its apex, where they are continuous with the superior hand. The septum auricularum has four sets of fibres entering into its formation; 1. The fibres arising from the auri- culo-ventricular rings at each side; 2. Fibres arising from the root of the aorta, which pass upwards to the transverse band, and to the root of the superior cava; 3. Those fibres of the anterior band that pass through the lower part of the septum in their course around the left auricle ; and, 4. A slender fasciculus, which crosses through the sep- tum from the posterior part of the right auriculo-ventricular ring to the left auricle. It will be remarked, from this description, that the left auricle is considerably thicker and more muscular than the right. The lining memhrane of the heart is termed endocardium; it is a thin, transparent membrane, but is more opake on the left side of the heart, where it is continuous with the internal coat of the pulmo-