MAMMARY GLANDS. 665 layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow above (pars intermedia), broad and rounded below, and are termed by Kobelt, wbo considers tbem analogous to the bulb of the male urethra, the hulhi vestibuli. Behind these bodies and lying against the outer wall of the vagina are two small glands analogous to Cowper's glands in the male subject; these are the glands of Bartholine. Each gland opens by means of a long duct upon the inner side of the corresponding nympha. MAMMARY GLANDS. The Mammce are situated in the pectoral region, and are sepa- rated from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin layer of superficial fascia. They exist in the male as well as in the female, but in a rudimentary state, unless excited into growth by some peculiar action, such as the loss or atrophy of the testes. Their base is somewhat elliptical, the long diameter corresponding with the direction of the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle ; and the left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. Near the centre of the convexity of each mamma is a small pro- minence of the integument, called the nipple (mamilla), which is surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In females of fair complexion before impregnation, the colour of the areola is a delicate pink; after impregnation, it assumes a brownish hue, which deepens in colour as pregnancy advances ; and after the birth of a child, the brownish tint continues through life. The areola is furnished with a considerable number of sehiparous glands, which secrete a peculiar fatty substance for the protection of the delicate integument around the nipple. During suckling these glands are increased in size, and have the appearance of small pim- ples, projecting from the skin. At this period they serve by their increased secretion to defend the nipple and areola from the excori- ating action of the mouth of the infant. In structure, the mamma is a conglomerate gland, and consists of lobes, which are held together by a dense and firm cellular tissue ; the lobes are composed of lobules, and the lobules of minute csecal vesicles, the ultimate terminations of the excretory ducts. The excretory ducts (tubuli lactiferi, galactophori), from fifteen to twenty-five in number, commence by small openings at the apex of the nipple, and pass inwards, parallel with each other, towards the central part of the gland, where they form dilatations (ampullse), and give ofi" numerous branches to ramify through the gland to their ultimate terminations in the minute lobules. The ducts and csecal vesicles are lined, throughout, by a mucous membrane, which is continuous at the apex of the nipple with the integument. In the nipple the excretory ducts are surrounded by a tissue ana-