325 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery (carotis interna) curves slightly out- wards from the bifurcation of the common carotid, and ascends nearly perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It next passes inwards, along the carotid canal, forwards by the side of the sella turcica, and upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into three terminal branches. The course of this artery is remarkable for the number of angular curves which it forms ; one or two of these flexures are sometimes seen in the cervical portion, near the base of the skull; and, by the side of the sella turcica, it resembles the italic letter s, placed horizontally. Relations.—In consideration of its connexions, the artery is divisible into a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral portion. The Cervical portion is in relation posteriorly with the rectus anticus major, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerve which cross behind it. Internally it is in relation with the side of the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery. Externally with the internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerve; and in front with the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, stylo-hyoid ligament, glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and parotid gland. Plan of the Relations of the cervical portion of the internal carotid artery. In Front. Parotid gland, Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoid ligament, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. InternaTlAf. Pharynx, Tonsil, Ascending pharyn- geal artery. Internal ~ Carotid Artery. Externally. Internal jugular vein, Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric, Hypoglossal nerve. Behind. Pharyngeal nerve, Superior laryngeal nerve, Superior cervical ganglion, Eectus anticus major. The Petrous portion is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a periosteal lining derived from the dura mater; it is in relation with the carotid plexus, and is covered in by the Casserian ganglion. The Cavernous portion is situated in the outer wall of the ca- vernous sinus, and is in relation by its inner side with the lining