LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES. 363 are distributed to the anus and to the muscles and integument of the anal region of the perineum. The Superficial perineal artery (perinsea) is given off near the attachment of the crus penis; it pierces the connecting layer of the perineal fascia and triangular ligament, and runs forward across the transversus perinei muscle, and along the groove between the accelerator urinse and erector penis to the septum scroti, upon which it ramifies under the name of arteria septi. It distributes branches to the scrotum (scrotales posteriores) and perineum. One of the latter, larger than the rest, crosses the perineum, resting on the transversus perinei muscle, and is named the transversa perinei. There are often two superficial perineal arteries. The Artery of the bulb (bulbo-urethralis) is given off from the pudic nearly opposite the opening for the transmission of the urethra; it passes almost transversely inwards behind the triangular ligament, and pierces that ligament to enter the corpus spongiosum at its bulbous extremity. It is distributed to the corpus spongiosum. The Artery of the-corpus cavernosum (profunda penis) pierces the crus penis, and runs forward in the interior of the corpus cavernosum, by the side of the septum pectiniforme. It ramifies in the parenchyma of the venous structure of the corpus cavernosum. The Dorsal artery of the penis (dorsalis penis) ascends between the two crura and symphysis pubis to the dorsum penis, and runs forward through the suspensory ligament, in the groove of the corpus cavernosum, to the glans, distributing branches in its course to the body of the organ and integument. The Internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male; its branches, with their distribution, are, in principle, the same. The superficial perineal artery supplies the analogue of the lateral half of the scrotum, namely, the greater labium. The artery of the bulb supplies the vagina; the artery of the corpus caver- nosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris, and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis, the dorsum of that organ. Branches of the posterior trunk. The Ilio-lumbar artery (ileo-lombalis) ascends beneath the ex- ternal Uiac vessels and psoas muscle, to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, where it divides into two branches, a lumbar branch which supplies the psoas and quadratus lumborum, and sends a ramuscule through the fifth intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes; and an iliac branch (r. transver- salis) which passes across the iliac fossa to the crest of the ilium, where it inosculates with the lumbar arteries and circumflexa ilii. In its course it distributes branches to the iliacus and abdominal muscles. The Lateral sacral arteries (sacrales laterales) are generally