425 DURA MATER. fibrous membrane, somewhat laminated, in texture, and composed of wbite fibrous tissue. Lining the interior of the cranium, it serves as the internal periosteum of that cavity; it is prolonged also into the spinal column, under the name of theca vertebralis, but is not ad- herent to the bones in that canal as in the cranium. From the internal surface of the dura mater, processes are directed inwards for the support and protection of parts of the brain; while from its exte- rior, other processes are prolonged outwards to form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull and. spinal column. Its external sur- face is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by the thin varnish-like lamella of the arachnoid membrane. The latter is a serous membrane. Hence the dura mater becomes a fibro-serous membrane, being composed of its own proper fibrous structure, and the serous layer derived from the arachnoid. There are two other instances of fibro-serous membrane in the body, formed in the same way—namely, the pericardium and tunica albuginea of the testicle. On the external surface of the dura mater the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying ; and in the middle line is a depressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. If the sinus be opened along its course, it will be found to be a triangular channel, crossed at its lower angle by numerous white bands, called chordae Willisii ;* granular bodies are also occasionally seen in its interior, these are glandulse Pacchioni. The Glandules. Pacchionii' are small, round, whitish granula- tions, occurring singly or in clusters, and forming small groups of various size along the margin of the longitudinal fissure of the cere- brum, and more particularly near the summit of the latter. These bodies would seem to be c£ morbid origin ; they are absent in infancy, increase in numbers in adult life, and are abundant in the aged. They are generally associated with opacity of the arachnoid around their bases, but in some instances are wanting even in the adult. They have their point of attachment in the pia mater, from which they seem to spring, carrying with them the arachnoid mem- brane, and then, in proportion to their size, producing various effects upon contiguous parts. For example, when small, they remain free or constitute a bond of adhesion between the visceral and parietal layer of the arachnoid : when of larger size they pro- duce absorption of the dura mater, and as the degree of absorption is greater or less, they protrude through that membrane, and form * Willis lived in the seventeenth century; he was a great defender of the opinions of Harvey. t These bodies are incorrectly described as conglobate glands by Pacchioni, in an epistolatory dissertation, " De Glandulis conglobatis Durse Meningis indeque ortis Lymphaticis ad Piam Matrem productis," pubhshed at Rome, in 1705.