538 THE ORGAN OF HEARINa. The apparatus of hearing is composed of three parts, the external ear, middle ear or tympanum, and internal ear or labyrinth. The External ear consists of two portions, the pinna and meatus; the former representing a kind of funnel which collects the vibrations of the atmosphere, producing sounds, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. The Pinna presents a number of folds and hollows upon its surface, which have different names assigned to them. Thus, the external folded margin is called the helix (fXi?, a fold). The ele- vation parallel with and in front of the helix is the antihelix (dvri, opposite). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the opening of the ear from the face is the tragus (rpdyog, a goat), probably from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat; and, a tubercle opposite to this, is the antitragus. The lower dependent and fleshy portion of the pinna is the lohulus. The space between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa innominata (scaphoidea). Another depression is observed at the upper ex- tremity of the antihelix, which bifurcates and leaves a triangular space between its branches, called the fossa triangularis (ovalis); and the large central space, to which all the channels converge, is the concha, which opens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integument, fihro-cartilage, ligaments, and muscles. The Integument is thin, contains an abundance of sebiparous glands and is closely connected with the fibro-cartilage. The Fihro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and is folded so as to produce the various convexities and grooves which have been described upon its surface. The helix begins in the concha, and partially divides that cavity into two parts; on its anterior border, where it commences its curve upwards, is a tubercle or spine, and a little above this a small vertical fissure, fissure of the helix. The termination of the helix and antihelix forms a lengthened process, the processus caudatus, which is separated from the concha by an extensive fissure. Upon the anterior surface of the tragus is another fissure, \h.Q fissure of the tragus; and, in the lobulus, the fibro-car- tilage is wholly deficient. The fibro-cartilage of the meatus is divided from the concha by several fissures (fissures of Santorinus), and at the upper and anterior part of the cylinder is a consider- able space, which is closed by muscular and ligamentous fibres; it is firmly attached at its termination to the processus auditorius. The Ligaments of the external ear are those which attach the pinna to the side of the head, viz., anterior, posterior, and ligament