ACROMIAL REGION. 244 Acromial Region. Deltoideus, The Deltoideus (A, delta; dSoQ, resemblance; attollens hnmeri; sub-acromio-humeralis) is the large triangular muscle which forms the convexity of the shoulder; it arises from the outer third of the clavicle, from the acromion process, and from the whole leng-th of the spine of the scapula. The fibres from this broad origin con- verge to the middle of the outer side of the humerus, where they are inserted into a rough triangular elevation. In structure the deltoideus is composed of seven fasciculi, four of which are fleshy above and tendinous below; and three tendinous above and fleshy below. To bring the muscles beneath it into view, it must be cut away from its origin, and turned down; in so doing, a large bursa -will be seen between the under surface of the muscle and the head of the humerus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the brachial fascia, a few fibres of the platysma myoides, the superficial fascia, and integu- ment. By its deep surface with the shoulder-joint [from which it is separated by a thin tendinous fascia and by a synovial bursa], with the coraco-acromial ligament, coracoid process, pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, both heads of the biceps, tendon of the pectoralis major, tendon of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres miaor, teres major, scapular and external head of the triceps, circumflex vessels anterior and posterior, and humerus. By its anterior border with the external border of the pectoralis major, from which it is sepa- rated by a cellular interspace, lodging the cephalic vein and descend- ing branch of the thoracico-acromiaHs artery. Its posterior border is thin and tendinous above, where it is connected with the aponeu- rotic covering of the infra-spinatus muscle, and thick below. Actions.—The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, by means of its extensive origin, it can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a con- siderable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is a good illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained at the expense of power. In this lever, the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, and the power (insertion of the muscle) between the two, but nearer the fulcrum than the weight. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps brachii, Brachialis anticus. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed, on the removal of the integument and fascia from tlie anterior half of the upper arm, and the clearing away of the cellular tissue.