109 CUNEIFORM BONES. look forwards, and the convex border upwards, the broad extremity will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With/owr bones : astragalus and three cuneiform, sometimes also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The Internal Cuneiform may be known by its irregular wedge- shape, and by being larger than the two other bones bearing the same name. It presents for examination a convex and a concave surface, a long and a short articular border, and a small and a large extremity. Place the bone so that the small extremity may look upwards and the long articular border forwards, the concave surface will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which it belongs. The convex surface is internal and free, and assists in forming the inner border of the foot; the concave is external, and in appo- sition with the middle cuneiform and second metatarsal bone; the long border articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe, the sJiort border with the scaphoid bone. The small extremity (edge) is sharp; the larger extremity (base) rounded into a broad tuberosity. Articidations.—With four bones; scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and first two metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tibialis anticus and posticus. The liliDDLE Cuneiform is the smallest of the three; it is wedge- shaped, the broad extremity being placed upwards, and the sharp end downwards in the foot. It presents for examination four ar- ticular, surfaces and two extremities. The anterior and posterioi^ surfaces have nothing worthy of remark. One of the lateral surfaces has a long articular facet, extending its whole leng-th, for the in- ternal cuneiform; the other has only a partial articular facet for the external cuneiform bone. If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards, the broadest edge of the square being towards the holder, the smpJl and partial articular surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articidations.—With/owbones; scaphoid, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. The External Cuneiform is intermediate in size between the two preceding, and placed, like the middle, with the broad end up- wards, and sharp extremity downwards. It presents for examination fiive surfaces, and a superior and inferior extremity. The upper extremity is flat, of an oblong square form, an(l bevelled posteriorly, at the expense of the outer surface, into a sharp edge.