675 FCETAL LUNGS AND HEART. bontimies for a short time after birth, the quantity of fluid secreted from the thymus gradually declining as that of chylification becomes perfectly established." FOETAL LUNGS. The Lungs^ previously to the act of inspiration, are dense and solid in structure, and of a deep red colour. Their specific gravity is greater than water, in which they sink to the bottom ; whereas lung which has respired will float upon that fluid. The specific gravity is, however, no test of the real weight of the lung, the respired lung being actually heavier than the foetal. Thus the weight of the festal lung, at about the middle period of uterine life, is to the weight of the body as 1 to 60.* But, after respiration, the relative weight of the lung to the entire body is 1 to 30. FCETAL HEART. The Heart of the foetus is large in proportion to the size of the body; it is also developed very early, representing at first a simple vessel, and undergoing various degrees of complication until it arrives at the compound character which it presents after birth. The two ventricles form, at one period, a single cavity, which is afterwards divided into two by the septum ventriculorum. The two auricles communicate up to the moment of birth, the septum being incomplete, and leaving a large opening between them, the foramen ovale (foramen of Botalf). The Ductus arteriosus is another peculiarity of the foetus con- nected with the heart; it is a communication between the left pul- monary artery and the arch of the aorta. It degenerates into a fibrous cord after birth, from the double cause, of a diversion in the current of the blood towards the lungs, and from the pressure of the left bronchus, caused by its distention with air. VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. At an early period of uterine life, and sometimes at the period of birth, as I have twice observed in the imperfectly developed foetus, two minute fibrous threads may be seen passing from the umbilicus to the mesentery. These are the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The Omphalo-mesenteric are the first developed vessels of the germ : they ramify upon the vesicula umbilicalls, or yolk-bag, and supply the newly formed alimentary canal of the embryo. From them, as from a centre, the general circulating system is produced. * Cruveilliier, Anatomie Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 621. t Leonard Botal, of Piedmont, was the first of the moderns who gave an account of this opening, in a Avork published in 1565. His description is very imperfect. The foramen was well known to Galen. X X 2