PNEUMOGASTKIC NERVE. 475 jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and lower down between and behind that vein and the common carotid artery and enclosed in the same sheath. At the root of the neck the course of the nerve on the two sides is different. The right nerve enters the chest by passing between the subclavian artery and vein, and then descends by the side of the trachea to the posterior part of the root of the right lung; from whence it proceeds as a double cord along the posterior aspect of the oesophagus to the corresponding side of the stomach. The two cords reunite upon the lower part of the oesopha- gus. The left nerve enters the chest between the left common carotid and subclavian artery lying behind the left vena innomi- nata ; it then crosses the arch of the aorta, and reaches the posterior part of the root of the left lung, whence it descends, by one or two cords, along the anterior aspect of the oesophagus to the front part of the stomach. In the jugular foramen, the pneumogastric nerve presents a small round ganglion, the superior or jugular ganglion; and immediately at its exit a gangliform swelling, nearly an inch in length, the inferior ganglion (plexus gangliformis). The fibres of origin of the pneumogastric nerve, like those of the glosso-pharyngeal, may be traced through the fasciculi of the corpus restiforme to the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Bra/nches of the pneumogastric nerve are branches of commu- nication and branches of distribution. The Branches of comnmnication proceed from the ganglia : from the superior ganglion one or two branches pass to the spinal acces- sory ; one or two to the superior ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one to the inferior ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. From the inferior ganglion there pass off branches to the hypoglossal; branches to the superior cervical gangKon of the sympathetic, and branches to the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The Branches of distribution are Inferior or recurrent laryngeal, The Auricular nerve is given off from the lower part of the jugular ganglion, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately below it, and receives immediately after its origin a small branch of com- munication from the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and on the outer side of that vessel enters a small canal (page 35), in the petrous portion of the temporal bone near the stylo-mastoid foramen. Gruided by this canal it reaches the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and joins the facial nerve. In the aqueductus Fallopii the auricular nerve gives off two small filaments, one of which communicates with the posterior Auricular, Pharyngeal, Superior laryngeal. Cardiac, Pulmonary anterior. Pulmonary posterior, (Esophageal, Gastric.