LIGAMENTS OF THE VEKTEBEAL COLUMN. 123 5. Of the lower jaw. 6. Of the ribs, with the vertebrae. 7. Of the ribs, with the sternum, and with each other. 8. Of the sternum. 9. Of the vertebral column, with the pelvis. 10. Of the pelvis. 1. Articulation of the Vertebral column. The ligaments con- necting together the different pieces of the vertebral column, admit of the same arrangement as that of the vertebrae themselves. Thus the ligaments Of the bodies, are the Of the arches, Of the articular processes, Of the spinous processes, Of the tran^sverse processes, Anterior common ligament, Posterior common ligament, Intervertebral substance. Liigamenta subflava. Capsular ligaments, Synovial membranes. Inter-spinous, Supra-spinous. Inter-transverse. Bodies.—The Anterior common ligament (fascia longitudinalis anterior) is a broad and riband-like band of ligamentous fibres, ex- tending along the front surface of the vertebrpil column, from the axis to the sacrum. It is intimately connected with the intervertebral substance, and less closely with the bodies of the ver- tebrse. In the dorsal region it is thicker than in the cervical and lum- bar, and consists of a median and two lateral portions separated from each other by a series of openings for the passage of vessels. The ligament is composed of fibres of various length closely interwoven with each other; the deeper and shorter crossing the in- tervertebral substance from one verte- bra to the next; the superficial and' longer fibres crossing three or four vertebrae. The anterior common ligament is in relation by its posterior or vertebral surface, with the intervertebral substance, bodies of the vertebrae, and with the vessels, principally veins, which separate * The anterior ligaments of the vertebrae, and ligaments of the ribs. 1. An- terior common ligament. 2. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. 3. Anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. The interarticular ligament con- necting the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and separating the two synovial membranes of this articulation.