EPIDIDYMIS. 653 The testis is invested by Fig. 228.- is closely adherent; the globus minor is placed at its lower end, is attached to the testis by cellular tissue, and curves upwards, to become continuous with the vas deferens, three tunics, tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa, and is connected to the inner sur- face of the dartos by a large quan- tity of extremely loose cellular tissue, in which fat Jis never de- posited, but which is very suscep- tible of serous infiltration. The Tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous membrane derived from the peritoneum in the descent of the testis, and afterwards obliter- ated from the abdomen to within a short distance of the gland. Like other serous coverings, it is a shut sac, investing the organ, and thence reflected so as to form a bag around its circumference: hence it is divided into the tunica vaginalis proioria and tunica va- ginalis reflexa. The tunica vaginalis propria covers the surface of the tunica albuginea, and surrounds the epididymis, connecting it to the testis by means of a distinct duplicature. The tunica vagi- iialis reflexa is attached by its external surface, through the me- dium of a quantity of loose cellular tissue, to the inner surface of the dartos. Between the two layers is the smooth surface of the shut sac, moistened by its proper secretion. The Tunica albuginea (dura mater testis) is a thick fibrous mem- brane, of a bluish white colour, and the proper tunic of the testicle. It is adherent externally to the tunica vaginalis propria, and, from the union of a serous with a fibrous membrane, is considered to be a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. After surrounding the testicle, the tunica albuginea is reflected from its posterior border into the interior of the gland, and forms a projecting longitudinal ridge, which is called the mediastinum testis (corpus * A transverse section of the testicle. 1. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis; the most external layer is the tunica vaginalis reflexa; and that in contact with the organ, the tunica vaginalis propria. 2. The tunica albuginea. 3. The mediastinum testis giving off numerous fibrous cords in a radiated direction to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea. The cut extremities of the vessels belovr the number belong to the rete testis; and those above, to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. The tunica vasculosa, or pia mater testis. 5. One of the lobules, consisting of the convolutions of the tubuh seminiferi, and terminating by a single duct, the vas rectum. Corresponding lobules are seen between the other fibrous cords of the mediastinum. 6. Section of the epididymis.