191 ELEVATORS OP THE OS HTOIDES. the scapula, and transverse ligament of the suprascapular notch; and is inserted into the os hyoides at the junction of the body and great cornu. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sub- clavius, clavicle, deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides, sterno- mastoideus, and integument. By its deep surface with the brachial plexus, scaleni muscles, phrenic nerve, sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, descendens noni nerve, sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the sterno-hyoid at its insertion. The scapular portion of the muscle divides the great posterior triangle into a superior or occipital triangle, and an inferior or sub- clavian triangle; the latter contains the subclavian artery and brachial plexus of nerves ; the other two boundaries of the subclavian triangle are, the sterno-mastoid in front and the clavicle below. The hyoid portion of the muscle divides the great anterior triangle into an inferior carotid triangle situated below the muscle, and a su- perior ti'iangle which lies above the muscle, and is again subdi\dded by the digastricus into the suhmaxillary triangle and the superior carotid triangle. The other two boundaries of the inferior carotid triangle, are the middle line of the neck in front and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid beliind. The other boundaries of the superior carotid triangle are the posterior belly of the digastricus above and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid behind. Actions.—The four muscles of this group are depressors of the OS hyoides and larynx. The three former drawing these parts down- wards in the middle line, and the two omo-hyoidei regulating their traction to the one or other side of the neck, according to the position of the head. The omo-hyoid muscles, by means of their connexion with the cervical fascia, are rendered tensors of that portion of the deep fascia which covers the lower part of the neck, between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. Third Group.—Elevators of the Os Hyoides. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoideus, Genio-hyo-glossus. Dissection.—These are best dissected by placing a high block beneath the neck, and throwing the head backwards. The integu- ment has been already dissected away, and the removal of some cellular tissue and fat brings them clearly into view. The Digastricus {dig, twice, yaarrip, belly, biventer) is a small muscle situated immediately beneath the side of the body of the lower jaw; fleshy at each extremity, and tendinous in the middle. It ainses from the digastric fossa and anterior border of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; pierces by its posterior belly the stylo-