MUSCLES OP THE SOLE OP THE POOT. 286 arising from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of bifurcation, and inserted into the expansion of the ex- tensor tendons, and into the base of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes on their tibial side. They pass between the digital slips of the plantar fascia to their insertion. The innermost lumbricalis is connected with only one tendon. Dissection.—The tendons of the long flexors and the muscles con- nected with them must be removed, to see clearly the attachments of the third layer. The Flexoe brevis pollicis arises by a pointed tendinous pro- cess from the side of the cuboid, the external cuneiform bone, and the expanded tendon of the tibialis posticus; it is inserted by two heads into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Two sesa- moid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies in the groove between them. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor pollicis, tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones, the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. By its inner border with the abductor pollicis; and by its outer border with the adductor pollicis; with both of these muscles it is blended near its insertion. The Adductor pollicis arises from the cuboid bone, from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, in conjunction with the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the musculus accessorius, and lumbricales. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones and ligaments, external plantar artery and veins, interossei muscles, tendon of the peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the*great toe. By its inner border with the flexor brevis pollicis; with which its fibres are blended. The Transversus pedis arises by fleshy slips, from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. It passes transversely inwards to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, its tendon being blended with that of the adductor pollicis. The transversus pedis is regarded by some anatomists as a short head of the adductor pollicis; in its action it is obviously an ad- Third Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis, Transversus pedis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti.