101 FEMUR. anterior brancli is continxied. forwards in front of the lesser trochanter, and is continuous with the anterior intertrochanteric line; the middle is continued directly upwards into the linea quadrati; and the pos- terior, broad and strongly marked, ascends to the base of the trochanter major. Towards ^^9- 53.* the lower extremity of the bone the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which descend to the two condyles, and enclose a trian- gular space upon which rests the popliteal artery. The internal condyloid ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove, for the passage of the femoral artery. The nutritious foramen is situated in or near the linea aspera, at about one-third from its upper extremity, and is directed obliquely from below up- wards. The lov)er extremity of the femur is broad and porous, and divided by a smooth depression in front, and by a large fossa (fossa intercondyloidea) behind, into two condyles. The external condyle is the broadest and most prominent, the internal the narrowest and longest; the difference in length de- pending on the obliquity of the femur, in consequehce of the separation of the two bones at their upper extremities by the breadth of the pelvis. The external condyle is marked upon its outer side by a promi- nent tuberosity, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament; and imme- diately beneath this is the fossa which lodges the tendon of origin of the popliteus. By the internal surface it gives attachment to the anterior crucial ligament of the knee- joint ; and by its upper and posterior part, to the external head of the gastrocnemius and to the plantaris. The internal condyle projects upon its inner side into a tuberosity, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament; above this tube- rosity, at the extremity of the internal condyloid ridge, is a tubercle, * The right femur, seen on its anterior aspect. 1. The shaft. 2. The head. 3. The neck. 4. The great trochanter. 5. The anterior intertrochan- teric line. 6. The lesser trochanter. 7. The external condyle. 8. The in- ternal condyle. 9. The tuberosity for the attachment of the external lateral ligament. 10. The fossa for the tendon of origin of the pophteus muscle. 11. The tuberosity for the attachment of the internal lateral hgament.