372 POPLITEAL AETERY. Relations.—In its course downwards it rests on the femur, then on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, then on the fascia cover- ing the popliteus muscle. Superficially it is in relation with the semi-membranosus muscle, next with a quantity of fat which sepa- rates it from the deep fascia, and near its termination with the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus; superficial and external to it is the popliteal vein, and still more superficial and external the popliteal nerve. By its inner side it is in relation with the semi- membranosus, internal condyle of the femur, and inner head of the gastrocnemius; and by its outer side with the biceps, external con- dyle of the femur, outer head of the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and soleus. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery are the— Superior external articular, Inferior external articular, Superior internal articular, Inferior internal articular, Azygos articular. Sural. The Superior articular arteries (articulares genu superiores) ; external and internal, wind around the femur, immediately above the condyles, to the front of the knee-joint, anastomosing with each other, with the external circumflex, anastomotica magna, inferior articular, and recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendon of the biceps, and the internal through an arched opening beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus. They supply the knee-joint and lower part of the femur, and give branches to the vasti muscles. The Azygos articular artery (articularis genu media) pierces the posterior ligament of the joint, the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the crucial ligaments and synovial membrane. There are, frequently, several posterior articular arteries. The Inferior articular arteries (articulares genu inferiores) wind around the head of the tibia immediately below the joint, and anas- tomose with each other, the superior articular arteries, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the two external lateral ligaments of the joint, the internal beneath the internal lateral ligament. They supply the knee-joint and the heads of the tibia and fibula. The Sural arteries (surales; sura, the calf) are two muscular branches of large size, distributed to the two heads of the gastrocne- mius muscle. Other muscular branches are given off from the upper part of the popliteal artery to supply the hamstring muscles.