523 NASAL FOSSiE. , projecting processes, termed spongy bones. The two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossse these are covered with mucous membrane, and serve to increase the surface of that membrane by their prominence and convoluted form. The space intervening between the superior and middle spongy bone is the superior meatus ; the space between the middle and inferior the middle meatus ; and that between the inferior and the floor of the fossa the inferior meatus. These meatuses are passages which extend from before backwards, and it is in circulating through and amongst these that the atmo- sphere deposits its odorant particles upon the mucous membrane. There are several openings into the nasal fossse: thus, in the su- perior meatus are the openings of the sphenoidal and posterior eth- moidal cells ; in the middle, the anterior ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and antrum maxillare ; and, in the inferior meatus, the termination of the nasal duct. In the dried bone there are two additional openings, the spheno-palatine and the anterior palatine foramen ; the former being situated in the superior, the latter in the inferior meatus. The Mucous membrane of the nasal fossee is called pituitary, or Sclmeiderian.^ The former name being derived from the nature of its secretion, the latter from Schneider, who was the first to show that the secretion of the nose proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not from the brain, as was previously imagined. It is closely adherent to the periosteum, constituting what is called a fibro- mucous membrane, and is continuous with the general gastro-pul- monary mucous membrane. From the nasal fossae it may be traced through the openings in the meatuses, into the sphenoidal and eth- moidal cells; into the frontal sinuses ; into the antrum maxillare ; through the nasal duct to the surface of the eye, where it is conti- nuous with the conjunctiva; along the Eustachian tubes into the tympanum and mastoid cells, to which it forms the lining mem- brane ; and through the posterior nares into the pharynx and mouth, and thence through the lungs and alimentary canal. The surface of the membrane is furnished with a laminated epithelium near the apertures of the nares, and in the rest of its extent with a columnar epithelium supporting innumerable vibratile cilia. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the nasal fossae are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic artery ; and the spheno-palatine and pterygo-palatine from the internal maxillary. The Nerves are, the olfactory, the spheno-palatine and naso- palatine from Meckel's ganglion, and the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic. The ultimate filaments of the olfactory nerve terminate in papillae. * Conrad Victor Schneider, Professor of Medicine at Wittenberg. His work, entitled Be Cattarhis, &e. was published in 1661.