647 COKPUS SPONGIOSUM PENIS. elastic, and extremely firm, and sends a number of fibrous bands and cords (trabeculae) inwards from its inferior groove, which cross its interior in a radiating direction, and are inserted into the inner walls of the tunic. These trabeculse are most abundant on the middle line, where they are ranged vertically, side by side, some- what like the teeth of a comb, and constitute the imperfect parti- tion of the corpus cavernosum, called septum pectiniforme. The septum is more complete at its posterior than towards its anterior part. The tunic of the corpus cavernosum consists of strong longitudinal fibrous fasciculi, closely interwoven with each other. Its internal structure is composed of erectile tissue. The Corpus spongiosum is situated along the under surface of the corpus cavernosum, in its inferior groove. It commences by its pos- terior extremity between and beneath the crura penis, where it forms a considerable enlargement, the hulh, and terminates anteriorly by another expansion, the glans penis. Its middle portion, or body, is nearly cylindrical, and tapers gradually from its posterior towards its anterior extremity. The bulb is adherent to the triangular liga- ment by means of a prolongation of fibrous membrane; in the rest of its extent the corpus spongiosum is attached to the corpus caVernosum by cellular tissue, and by veins which wind around that body to reach the dorsal vein. It is composed of erectile tissue, enclosed by a dense fibrous layer much thinner than that of the corpus cavernosum, and contains in its interior the spongy portion of the urethra, which lies nearer its upper than its lower wall. The bulb exhibits a tendency to division into two lobes, an appearance which is due to the existence of a thin longitudinal septum in its internal structure. Erectile tissue is a peculiar cellulo-vascular structure, entering in considerable proportion into the composition of the organs of genera- tion. It consists essentially of a plexus of veins so closely convoluted and interwoven with each other, as to give rise to a cellular appear- ance when examined by means of a section. The veins forming this plexus are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and circum- ference of the corpus cavernosum, than in the central part of the latter, where they are large and dilated. They have no other coat than the internal lining prolonged from the neighbouring veins; and the interstices of the plexus are occupied by a peculiar reddish fibrous tissue. They receive their blood froiji the capillaries of the arteries in the same manner as veins in general, and not by means of vessels having a peculiar form and distribution, as described by Miiller. The helicine arteries of that physiologist have no existence. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic; they are, the arteries of the bulb, arteries of the corpus cavernosum, and dorsales penis. Its veins are superficial and deep. The deep veins run by the side of the deep arteries, and terminate in the internal pudic veins. The superficial veins escape