DEVELOPMENT OF EPIDEEMA. 557 ance of the process of imbibition, the cell becomes more or less sphe- rical ; so that, after a time, every part of the surface of the papillary- layer of the derma is coated by a thin and membranous stratum, con- sisting of spherical cells lying closely pressed together, and cor- responding with every irregularity which the papillae present. But, as this production of cells is a function constantly in operation, a new layer is formed before the first is completed, and the latter is separated by subsequent formations farther and farther from the surface of the papillary layer. As a consequence of loss of contact with the derma, the vital force is progressively diminished; the cell becomes subject to the influence of physical laws, and evaporation of its fluid slowly ensues. In consequence of this evaporation, the cell becomes collapsed and flattened, and assumes an elliptical form; the latter is by degrees converted into the flat cell with parallel and contiguous layers, and an included nucleolated nucleus ; and lastly, the flattened cell dessicates into a thin membranous scale, in which the nucleus is scarcely apparent. My own investigations* have shown that, after the original granules of the liquor sanguinis have become aggregated into a gran- ular nucleus, other granules are formed in successive circles, around the circumference of the nucleus, until the entire breadth of the epidermal scale is attained; that the cell never acquires a greater thickness than that of the original nucleus, and, that the formation of the scale results from the desiccation of the cell, as it is gradually pushed outwards from the derma towards the surface. Consequently, the cell never possesses any other than the flattened form; all its phases of growth are perfected in the deepest layer of the epiderma; and, in its internal structure, it is a parent cell containing secondary and tertiary cells and granules, its growth being the result of the growth of tlaese secondary formations. The under surface of the epiderma is accurately modelled on the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla having its appropriate sheath in the newly-formed epiderma or rete mucosum, and each irregularity of surface of the former having its representative in the soft tissue of the latter. On the external surface, this character is lost ; the minute elevations corresponding with the papillse are, as it were, polished down, and the surface is rendered smooth and uni- form. The palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet are, however, an exception to this rule; for here, in consequence of the large size of the papillae and their peculiar arrangement in rows, ridges corresponding with the papillse are strongly marked on the superficial surface of the epiderma. The epiderma is remarkable for its thickness in situations where the papillae are large, as in the palms and soles. In other situations, it assumes a character which is also due to the nature of the surface of the derma ; namely, that of being marked by a network of linear furrows, which trace out the * Diseases of the Skin.