459 FOURTH PAIR—PATHETICI. 'Fourth pair. Pathetioi (trocUearis).—The fourtli is the smallest cerebral nerve ; it arises from the valve of Vieussens close to the testis, and winding around the cms cerebri to the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, pierces the dura mater below the third nerve, and passes along the outer wall of the caver- * The isthmus encephali, showing the thalamus opticus, corpora quadri- gemina, pons Varohi, and medulla oblongata;, as viewed from the side. 1. Thalamus opticus. 2. Posterior prominence of this body, tuberculum superius posterius or pulvinar. 3. Corpus geniculatum externum. 4. Corpus geniculatum internum. 5. Commencement of the tractus opticus. 6. Pineal gland. 7. Nates. 8. Testis of one side. 9. Braehium anterius of the cor- pora quadrigemina, a. Branchium posterius. b. Origin of the fourth nerve, which may be seen descending over the erus cerebri, e. Processus e cere- beUo ad testem, or superior peduncle of the cerebelltmi. d. The band of fibres termed laqueus, the 'superior division of the fasciculus oHvaris, crossing the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to enter the corpora quadrigemina. Through the small triangular space in front of this band, crossed by the fourth nerve, some of the fibres of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum may be seen. e. Superior portion of the erus cerebri, termed tegmentum. J". Its inferior portion, g. Third nerve, h. Pons Varolii, i. Crus cerebeUi, or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. Jc. Inferior peduncle derived from the corpus restiforme. The mass lying in the angular interval upon these is the superior pedxmele. I. Fifth nerve issuing from between the transverse fasci- culi of the pons Varolii, m. Sixth nerve, n. Seventh nerve; the inferior and smaller cord is the facial nerve, the superior and larger the auditory. 0. Corpus olivare crossed inferiorly by the superficial arciform fibres. p. Corpus pyramidale. q. Posterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata. r. Corpus restiforme. s. Spinal cord. t. Fourth ventricle.