ANATOMY OF THE HEART. 572 form of its internal cavity. It forms the apex of the heart, by pro- jecting heyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advantage in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven lines in thick- ness, those of the right ventricle being about two lines and a half. It presents for examination, in its interior, two openings, two valves, and the tendinous cords and muscular columns ; they may be thus arranged:— The Auriculo-ventricular opening is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the endocardium, but smaller in size than that of the right side. Its fibrous structure is closely connected with that of the right auriculo-ventricular and aortic rings ; at the j auction of the three there is a fibro-cartilaginous mass, and, in some animals, a portion of bone. The Mitral valves are attached around the auriculo-ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ventricle. They are thicker than the tricuspid, and consist of two segments, of which the larger is placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the commencement of the aorta, and acts the part of a valve to that foramen during the filling of the ventricle. The difi'erence in size of the two valves, both being triangular, and the space between them, has given rise to the idea of a ^'bishoj)'s mitre" after which they were named. These valves, like the tricuspid, are furnished with an apparatus of tendinous cords, chordoi tendinece, which are attached to two very large columnce carnece. The Columnce carnece admit of the same arrangement into three kinds, as on the right side. Those which are free by one extremity, the columnse papillares, are two in number, and larger than those on the opposite side ; one being placed on the left wall of the ven- tricle, the other at the junction of the septum ventriculorum with the posterior wall. The Semilunar valves are placed around the commencement of the aorta, like those of the pulmonary artery; they are similar in struc- ture, and are attached to the scalloped border by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The nodule in the centre of each fold is larger than those of the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Arantius particularly described ; but the term corpora Arantii,''^ is now applied indiscriminately to both. The foss« between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are larger than those of the pulmonary artery; they are called the ' ^sinus aortici" (sinuses of Valsalva). Auriculo-ventricular opening, Aortic opening. Chordae tendine^, Columnae carnese. Mitral valves, Semilunar valves.