326 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. membrane of the sinns, and by its outer side with the third, fourth, ophthalmic, and sixth nerve. The Cerebral portion of the artery is enclosed in a sheath of the arachnoid, and is in relation with the optic nerve. At its point of division it is situated in the fissure of Sylvius. Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches : from the other portions are derived the following : - Tympanic, Middle cerebral, Arterise receptaculi, Posterior communicating, Ophthalmic, Choroidea anterior. Anterior cerebral, "The Tympanic is a small branch given off in the carotid canal; it enters the tympanum and inosculates with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and with the stylo-mastoid artery. The ArtericB receptaculi anterior and posterior are two small branches given off in the cavernous sinus and distributed to the parts contained in the cavernous sinus, Casserian ganglion, and dura mater ; one of the twigs distributed to the latter is the ante- rior meningeal artery. The Ophthalmic artery (ophthalmica) arises from the internal carotid, just as that vessel pierces the dura mater, and enters the orbit through the foramen opticum, lying externally to the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit, and runs along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle, to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. Branches.-—The branches of the ophthalmic artery, ten in number, may be arranged into two groups : first, those distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts ; and, secondly, those which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. They are— Anterior ethmoidal, Palpebral, Frontal, Nasal. The Lachrymal (lachrymalis) is the first branch of the ophthal- mic artery, and is usually given off immediately before that artery enters the optic foramen. It follows the course of ti e lachrymal nerve, above the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. The small branches which escape from the gland supply the conjunctiva and upper eyelid. The lachrymal artery gives off a malar branch which passes through First Group. Lachrymal, Supra-orbital, Posterior ethmoidal, Second Group. Muscular,—anterior ciliary. Ciliary short and long, Centralis reticse.