511 PALATINE NEKVES. naso-palatine nerve. While in the posterior palatine canal, this nerve gives off several branches *(m/mor nasal), which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and are distributed to the middle and inferior meatus, the inferior spongy bone, and the antrum. The middle or external palatine nerve descends externally to the preceding to the posterior palatine foramen, and distributes branches to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. Th.e posterior or small palatine nerve, quits the other nerves to enter a distinct canal, from which it emerges by a separate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It is distributed to the hard palate and gums near the point of its emergence, and also to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The internal branches are the superior nasal and the naso-pala- tine. The superior nasal nerves, four or five in number, enter the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the superior meatus, and superior and middle spongy bone. The naso-p)alatine nerve (Scarpa) enters the nasal fossa with the nasal nerves, and crosses the roof of the nares to reach the septum, to which it gives filaments. It then curves downwards and forwards to the naso-palatine canal, and passes through that canal to the palate, to which and to the papilla behind the incisor teeth it is dis- triliuted. This nerve was described by Cloquet as uniting with its fellow in the naso-palatine canal and constituting the naso-palatine ganglion. The existence of this ganglion is disputed. .^]xQposterior branches are the Vidian or pterygoid nerve, and the pharyngeal. The Vidian* nerve passes directly backwards from the spheno- palatine ganglion, through the pterygoid or Vidian canal, to the fora- men lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, carotid and petrosal. The carotid hranch (n. petrosus profundus) crosses the foramen lacerum, surrounded by the cartilaginous substance which closes that opening, and enters the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. The petrosal hranch (n. petrosas superficialis major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, pierc- ing the cartilaginous substance, and passes backwards beneath the Casserian ganglion and dura mater, embedded in a groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. In the hiatus Fallopii it receives a branch from Jacobson's nerve, and ter- minates in the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. The pharyngeal nerve is a small branch which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, * Gruido Guidi, latinised into Vidus Vidius, was professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1543. His work is posthumous, and was pubUshed in 16117