613 ALVEOLAR MUCOUS MEMBRANE, hi ft of the latter being a transparent substance containing granules and minute cells. It is this substance, together with the limitary mem- brane, which constitutes the papillae and villi of mucous membrane. In the alimentary canal, the surface of the membrane presents some diversity of appearance, having reference to the mode of arrangement of the limitary membrane. Thus in the stomach it is raised into a delicate network, the minute openings included within the frame of the network being termed alveoli, and this form of mu- Fig. 211.* cous membrane alveolar. The alveolar mucous mem- ^'I'^Wjl^'-)^^^ brane is also found in the large intestine, where the alveoli are smaller and the septa thicker than those of the stomach; in the vesi- cul^ seminales, where they are larger ; and in the gall- bladder, where they are very large and coarse. The alveoli of the stomach are polyhe- dral, for the most part hexagonal in form, and have opening into their floor the mouths of the gastric follicles ; in the pyloric end of the stomach, they are oblong 2i f in form, and their walls are rendered uneven by the pre- sence of numerous flattened papillae or villi. In the small intestine, * A portion of the mucous membrane of the large intes- tine, magnified 75 times. The alveoli measured of an inch in length, by in breadth; the septa between the alveoK mea- suring of an inch in.width. The alveoli are less regular in form and shallower than those of the stomach; and in the bot- tom of each is a gland with a central excretory aperture. In some of the larger alveoh there are two glands. t A portion of the mucous membrane of the smaU intestine, magnified 19 times, showing co- nical vilh. In the hollows be- tween the vilU are seen the aper- tures of simple foUicles (6); and near the bottom of the figure is a zone of foUicles (a), surrounding what has been described as a solitary gland. These villi measured ^ of an inch in length, by ^ in breadth at the base, and from to of an inch near the summit.