4 STRUCTURE OP BONE. « parts of their circumference, and in the dried state of the bone con- tain merely the remains of membranous cells and some calcareous salts.* In the living bone the cells and their tubuli are probably filled with a nutritive fluid holding calcareous salts in solution. The form of the cells is oval or round, and more or less flattened; their long diameter corresponds with the long axis of the bone, and their tubuli cross the direction of the lamellae, and constitute a very deli- cate network in the basis substance, by communicating with each other and with the tubuli of neighbouring cells. The tubuli of the cells nearest the Haversian canals terminate upon the internal surface of those passages. The size of the cells varies in extreme measure- ment from -gVrrr to of an inch in their long diameter, an ordin- ary average being xwtt > '^^^ breadth of the oval cells is about one- half or one-third their length, and their thickness one-half their breadth. They are situated between the lamellae, to which circum- stance they owe their compressed form. In the fresh state, bones are invested by a dense fibrous membrane, the periosteum, which covers every part of their surface with the exception of the articular extremities, the latter being coated by a thin layer of cartilage. The periosteum of the bones of the skull is termed ^:)en'cmmww/ and the analogous membrane of external car- tilages, perichondrium. Lining the interior of the medullary canal of long bones, the Haversian canals, the cells of the cancelli, and the cells of the flat and irregular bones, is the medullaiy membrane, which acts as an internal periosteum. It is through the medium of the vessels ramifying in these membranes that the changes required by nutrition occur in bones, and the secretion of medulla into their interior is effected. The medullary canal. Haversian canals and cells of long bones, and the cells of other bones, are filled with a yellowish oily substance, the medulla, which is contained in a loose cellular tissue formed by the medullary membrane. Development of Bone.—To explain the development of bone it is necessary to inform the student that all organized bodies, whether belonging to the vegetable or animal kingdom, are developed primor- dially from minute vesicles. These vesicles, or, as they are com- monly termed, cells, are composed of a thin membrane, containing a fluid or granular matter, and a small rounded mass, the nucleus, around which the cell was originally formed. Moreover, the nucleus generally contains one or more small round granules, the nucleolus, or nucleoli. From cells having this structure all the tissues of the body are elaborated; the ovum itself originally presented this simple form, and the embryo at an early period is wholly composed of such nu- cleated cells. In their relation to each other, cells may be isolated and independent, as is exemplified in the corpuscles of the blood, * Miiller and Henle conceived that the bone cells and tubuli were the prin- cipal seat of the calcareous matter. Hence they were named caldgerous cells aud tubuli.