339 AXILLARY ARTERT. The Superior thoracic (suprema; short thoracic), the highest of the branches of the axillary, and sometimes derived from the next, passes inwards to the chest in front of the pectoralis minor muscle, and is distributed to the pectoral muscles and walls of the chest. It anastomoses with the intercostal and mammary arteries. The Thoracica acromialis (thoracica humeraria) is a short trunk which proceeds from the axillary in the space above the pec- toralis minor muscle, and divides into three sets of branches, pectoral, which are distributed to the pectoral muscles, serratus magnus, and mammary gland; acromial (r. transversus), which pass outwards to the acromion, and inosculate with branches of the suprascapular artery; and descending (r. deltoideus), a single branch, which follows the interspace between the deltoid and pec- toralis major muscle, and is in relation with the cephalic vein. The Long thoracic (thoracica inferior; mammaria externa) de- scends along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest. It is distributed to the pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, and mammary gland; inosculating with the superior thoracic. Intercostal, and mammary arteries. • The Thoracica alaris is a small branch distributed to the plexus of nerves and glands in the axilla. It is frequently wanting; its place being supplied by a branch derived from one of the other thoracic branches. The Subscapular artery (scapularis inferior), the largest of the branches of the axillary, runs along the lower border of the sub- scapularis muscle, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, a branch of the subclavian. It supplies the muscles of the under surface and inferior border of the scapula, and the side of the chest. At about an inch and a half from the axillary, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapulce (circumflexa scapulse), which passes backwards through the triangular space bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scapular head of the triceps, and beneath the infra-spinatus muscle to the dorsum of the scapula, where it is distributed, inosculating with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The Circumflex arteries {circumflexse humeri) wind around the neck of the humerus. The anterior, very small, passes beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, and sends a branch upwards along the bicipital groove to supply the shoulder-joint. The Posterior circumflex, of larger size, passes backwards through the quadrangular space bounded by the teres minor and major, the scapular head of the triceps and the humerus, and is distributed to the deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint. Sometimes this artery is a branch of the superior profunda of the brachial. It then ascends behind the tendon of the teres major, and is distributed to the deltoid without passing through the quadrangular space. Varieties of the Axillary artery.—The most frequent peculiarity of this kind is the division of the vessel into two trunks of equal z 2