300 FASCIA OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY, brane and deltoid, and forms an anterior and posterior sheath for the muscles lying in front of and behind the humerus. It is attached to the condyloid ridges, by means of the infernal and ex- ternal intermuscular septum (ligamenta intermuscularia) and is inserted inferiorly into the two condyles, the olecranon, and posterior border of the ulna, being continuous between these points with the fascia of the forearm. Besides forming separate sheaths for the muscles, the anterior portion of the brachial fascia gives a sheath likewise to the brachial vessels and median nerve. The deep fascia of the forearm, fascia antihrachii, is very strong, and at the bend of the elbow its thickness is augmented by a broad band, which is given off from the inner side of the tendon of the biceps. It is firmly attached to the olecranon process, to the uLna, and to the prominent points about the wrist, forms sheaths for the muscles and vessels, gives origin to some of the fibres of the muscles, and is pierced a little above the wrist by the tendon of the palmaris longus. At the wrist the transverse fibres form the anterior and posterior annular ligament. The anterior annular ligament is a narrow band of fibres attached externally to the scaphoid, and internally to the pisiform bone and tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; it is continuous above with the fascia antibrachii, and below with the proper annular ligament of the wrist; being separated from the latter by the ulnar vessels and tendon of the flexor carpi radiaKs. The posterior annular ligament thicker than the anterior, is an oblique band about half an inch in breadth, extending from the lower end and styloid process of the radius, to the cuneiform and pisiform bone on the border of the carpus. It is continuous above with the fascia of the forearm, below with the thin fascia of the dorsum of the hand, and sends processes inwards to be attached to the bones and form sheaths for the extensor tendons. There are six of these sheaths, the first on the radial side giving passage to the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis; the second, to the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier; the third, to the extensor secundi internodii; the fourth, to the extensor indicis and extensor communis digitorum; the fifth, which is placed between the two bones, to the extensor digiti minimi; and the sixth, situated on the ulna, to the extensor carpi ulnaris. The tendons in passing through these sheaths are each provided with a synovial bursa. On the back of the hand there are two fasciae, superficial and deep. The fascia dorsalis superficialis is thin and covers in the extensor tendons; it is attached laterally to the metacarpal bones of the index and little finger, and is continuous above with the posterior annular ligament. The fascia dorsalis profunda is stretched across the metacarpal spaces and covers in the interossei muscles. The palmar fascia is divided into three portions. A central por- tion, which occupies the middle of the palm, and two lateral portions,