THORACIC DUCT. 413 in the sub-mucous tissue. From this areolar network the lacteal vessels proceed to the mesenteric glands, and from thence to the thoracic duct, in which they terminate. The Lymphatic glands of the large intestines are situated along the attached margin of the intestine, in the meshes formed by the colic and hgemorrhoidal arteries previously to their distribution. The lymphatic vessels take their course in two different directions; those of the csecum, ascending colon and transverse colon, after tra- versing their proper glands, proceed to the mesenteric, and those of the descending colon and rectum to the lumbar glands. Kidney.—The Lymphatic vessels of the kidney follow the direction of the bloodvessels to the lumbar glands situated around the aorta and inferior vena cava; those of the supra-renal capsules, which are very large and numerous, terminate in the renal lymphatics. Pelvis.—The Lymphatic vessels of the viscera of the pelvis terminate in the sacral and lumbar glands. The Lymphatic vessels of the testicle take the course of the sper- matic cord, in which they are of large size ; they terminate in the lumbar glands. i THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct,* the great trunk of the lymphatic and chylous system, commences in the abdomen, by a considerable and somewhat triangular dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, behind and between the aorta and inferior vena cava, and close to the tendon of the right crus of the diaphragm. From the upper part of the re- ceptaculum chyli the thoracic duct ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and along the front of the vertebral column, lying between the thoracic aorta and vena azygos and upon the right intercostal arteries, to the fourth dorsal vertebra. It then inclines to the left side, passes behind the arch of the aorta, and ascends by the side of the oesophagus and behind the perpendicular portion of the left subclavian artery to the root of the neck opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, where it makes a sudden curve for- wards and downwards, and terminates at the point of junction of the left subclavian with the left internal jugular vein. The thoracic duct is about eighteen or twenty inches in length, and near its origin as large as a goosequill; as it ascends it di- minishes in size, and near its termination again becomes dilated. At the middle of the thorax it frequently divides into two branches of equal size, which re-unite after a short course ; and sometimes it gives off several branches, which assume a plexiform arrangement * The thoracic duct was discovered by Eustachius, in 1563, in the horse; he regarded it as a vein, and called it the yena alba thoracis. The lacteals were tirst seen by AseUius, in 1622, in the dog; and A^ithin the next ten years by Veshngius in man.