MUSCLES OF THE BACK, 210 Three of these muscles: viz., sacro-lum'balis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinse. They occupy the lumbar and dorsal portion of the back. The re- maining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, the oblique sacro-iliac ligament, articular and spinous tubercles of the sacrum, spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrse, and deeply from the pos- terior transverse tubercles of the lumbar vertebrse; the external portion being fleshy, the internal tendinous. The tendinous portion is broad and flat and gives origin by its deep surface to a consider- able part of the muscular fibres. In the lumbar region, the muscle proceeding from this extensive origin is a broad and thick musculo- tendinous mass, on the surface of which, opposite the last rib, a line of separation is apparent, the outer portion, about one third, being the sacro-lumbalis, the inner two thirds the longissimus dorsi. The sacro-lumbalis (ilio-costalis, TheUe) ascends upon the chest, internally to the angles of the ribs, and is inserted by separate slips, the four upper tendinous, the two lower fleshy, into the angles of the six lower ribs. If this muscle be turned a little outwards, a number of tendinous slips will be seen which take their origin from the upper border of the ribs near their angles, and terminate in muscular fasciculi by which the sacrolumbalis is prolonged to the upper part of the chest. This is the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem; it arises from the six lower ribs; and is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six upper ribs and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Retzius considering the separation of the accessorius as a difficulty to the student, treats it as the costal portion of the sacro-lumbalis, which latter he then describes as dividing into two sets of tendons, external or ascending, and internal or descending. These tendons cross each other in their course, and are inserted into the angles of all the ribs. The longissimus dorsi is inserted by two series of tendons internal and external; the internal being implanted into the posterior trans- verse tubercles of the lumbar, and transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrse; the external into the transverse processes (lumbar ribs) of the lumbar vertebrse and all the ribs, excepting the first, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper Ivimbar and two lower dorsal vertebrse, and is inserted into the spinous processes of the upper dorsal vertebrse from the second to the sixth or eighth. It also receives several fasciculi from the longissimus dorsi and semi-spinalis dorsi. The two muscles form an ellipse, which appears to enclose the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrse. Relations.—The erector spinse muscle is in relation by its super- ficial surface (in the lumbar region) with the vertebral aponeurosis,