520 CHAPTER IX. ORGANS OF SENSE. The organs of sense, tlie instruments by wMcli the animal frame is brought into relation with surrounding nature, are five in number. Four of these organs are situated within the head : viz. the appa- ratus of smell, sight, hearing, and taste ; and the remaining organ, of touch, is resident in the skin, and distributed over the surface of the body. THE NOSE AND NASAL EOSS^. The organ of smell consists essentially of two parts : one external, the nose ; the other internal, the nasal fossce. The nose is the triangular pyramid which projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Superiorly it is con- nected with the forehead by means of a narrow bridge ; inferiorly, it presents two openings, the nostrils, which overhang the mouth, and are so constructed that the odour of all substances must be received by the nose before they can be introduced within the lips. The sep- tum between the openings of the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a number of stiff hairs {vibrisscB) which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the in- troduction of foreign substances, such as dust or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed, are —1. Integument. 2. Muscles. 3. Bones. 4. Fibro-cartilages. 5. Mucous membrane. 6. Vessels and nerves. 1. The Integument forming the tip (lohulus) and wings (alcB) of the nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difficulty se- parated from the fibre-cartilage. It is furnished with an abundance of sehiparous follicles, which, by their oily secretion, protect the ex- tremity of the nose in excessive alternations of temperature. The sebaceous matter of these follicles becomes of a dark colour near the surface, from altered secretion, and also from attraction of the car- bonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere; hence the spotted ap- pearance which the tip of the nose presents in large cities. When the integument is firmly compressed, the inspissated sebaceous se-