420 NERVE-GRANULES. contained in the nerve-cells and nerve-granules, that give the pecu- liar tint of colour to the grey and dark substance of the cerebro- spinal axis. In the grey substance of the brain the nerve-cells may be seen in various stages of progressive development; thus, near the periphery, they are minute, spherical, or oval nucleated cells dispersed through a matrix of granular substance; more deeply, the granular substance is collected around the cells, and forms an exterior coat; while, at a greater depth, the cells have attained the size and the laminated sheaths of the fully formed nerve-cells. Nerve-cells offer many pe- culiarities in respect of number and arrangement in different parts of the nervous system. From the periphery of the nerve-cells one or more delicate thread- like processes, between yinnr -^(;)^oq of an inch in diameter, are given off. These are the origins of the grey nerve-fibres. ' 4. Nerve-granules present the three forms,—minute homoge- neous particles, aggregated particles, and nucleated corpuscles, varying in size between -g-fnnr x-gVo" of mch in diameter. They serve as the bond of connexion between the fibres and cells of the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the grey substance; and enter also into the composition of the various ganglia. Like nerve- cells, nerve-granules contain and have intermingled with them a variable number of pigment-granules. In the construction of a nerve the nerve-fibres are collected into small fasciculi, each fasciculus being invested by a distinct neuri- lemma. These fasciculi, again, are collected into bundles, forming larger fasciculi, which have also a separate neurilemma; and a bundle of the larger fasciculi, enclosed in a sheath or neurilemma of white fibrous tissue, constitutes a nerve. The neurilemma of the smaller fasciculi is smooth and semi-transparent, and remarkable for its satiny polish,—an appearance which is due to the longitudinal ar- rangement of the undulating fasciculi of fibrous tissue of which it is composed. Another character which the smaller nervous fasciculi possess, is that of being crossed by oblique or transverse lines, which are produced, in all probability, by the wrinkling of the neurilemma. In the fasciculi of grey fibres the tendency to wrinkle exists in the longitudinal direction, and the neurilemma is composed of an inner layer of circular filaments as well as an outer layer of longitudinal fila- ments of fibrous tissue. The nerve-fibres have no inosculations, but pursue an uninterrupted course from their central to their peripheral termination. In some instances they return after a short ciirve to the cerebro-spinal centre, as, for example, in the posterior part of the optic commissure, in the two roots of each spinal nerve, and in the loop formed between the descendens noni and the upper cervical nerves. In these cases, the fibres form a simple arch, both extremities of the arch maintaining a communication with the cerebro-spinal axis. In another instance,