CREMASTER. 225 Along the upper three-fourths of the linea semilunaris, the aponeu- rosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front, the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted; along the lower fourth, the aponeurosis passes altogether in front of the rectus without separation. The two layers, which thus enclose the rectus, form for it a partial sheath. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the pec- tineal line of the pubes in common with those of the transversalis muscle. Hence the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis. This structure corresponds with the external abdominal ring, and forms a protec- tion to what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes the tendon is insufficient to resist the pressure from within, and becomes forced through the external ring; it then forms the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border of the internal oblique muscle, between it and Poupart's ligament. During its pas- sage some fibres are given ojGf from the lower border of the muscle, which accompany the cord downwards to the testicle, and form loops around it; this is the cremaster muscle. In the descent of oblique inguinal hernia, which travels the same course as the spermatic cord, the cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. The Cremaster, considered as a distinct muscle, arises from the middle ;of Poupart's ligament, and forms a series of loops upon the spermatic cord. A few of its fibres are inserted into the tunica vaginalis, the rest (crus internum) ascend along the inner side of the cord, to be inserted, with the conjoined tendon, into the pecti- neal line of the os pubis. Relations.—The internal oblique is in relation by its external sur- face with the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, and external abdominal ring. By its internal surface with the transver- salis muscle, fascia transversalis, internal abdominal ring, and sper- matic cord. By its lower and arched border with the spermatic cord ; forming by this border the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. The cremaster is in relation by its external surface with the apo- neurosis of the external oblique, and intercolumnar fascia; by its internal surface with the fascia propria of the spermatic cord. ring, the inferior or external pillar; the curved intercolumnar fibres are seen proceeding upwards from Poupart's ligament to strengthen the ring. The numbers 14 and 15 are placed on the fascia lata of the thigh; the o]Dening im- mediately to the left of 15 is the saphenous opening. 16. Eectus muscle of the right side brought into view by the removal of the anterior segment of its sheath: * the posterior segment of its sheath with the divided edge of the anterior segment. 17. Pyi-amidalis muscle. 18. Internal oblique. 19. Con- joined tendon of the internal obhque and transversaUs descending behind Poupart's ligament to the pectineal line. 20. The arch formed between the lower curved border of the internal oblique muscle and Poupart's ligament; it is beneath this arch that the spermatic cord and hernia pass. Q