33 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. Varolii, and adjacent parts of the brain. One of tliese branches, larger than the rest, passes along the crus cerebelli to be distributed to the anterior border of the cerebellum (a. cerebelli inferior, an- terior). This artery gives off a small branch, the auditiva interna, which accompanies the seventh pair of nerves into the meatus audi- torius internus; the auditory branch may be derived directly from the basilar. The Superior cerebellar arteries (cerebelli superior), two of the terminal branches of the basilar, wind around the crus cerebri on each side, lying in relation with the fourth nerve, and are distributed to the upper surface of the cerebellum inosculating with the inferior cerebellar. The Posterior cerebral arteries (cerebri posterior vel profunda) the other two terminal branches of the basilar, v/ind around the crus cerebri at each side, and are distributed to the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. They are separated from the superior cerebellar arteries near their origin, by the third pair of nerves, and are in close rela- tion with the fourth pair in their course around the crura cerebri. Anteriorly, near their origin, they give off a tuft of small vessels which enter the locus perforatus, and they receive the posterior com- municating arteries from the internal carotid. They also send a branch to the velum interpositum and plexus choroides {clioroidea posterior). The communications established between the anterior cerebral arterie^ in front, and the internal carotids and posterior cerebral arteries behind, by the communicating arteries, constitute the circle of Willis (circulus arteriosus Willisii). This remarkable vascular communication at the base of the brain is formed by the anterior communicating branch, anterior cerebrals, and internal carotid arteries in front, and by the posterior communicating, posterior cerebrals, and basilar artery behind. The Internal mammary artery (mammaria vel thoracica interna) arises from the under side of the subclavian, and passes down behind the subclavian vein to the cartilage of the first rib. It then descends by the side of the sternum, resting on the cartilages of the ribs, to the sheath of the rectus, where, under the name of superior epigastric, it terminates by inosculating with the epigastric branch of the external iliac. As the artery enters the chest it is crossed by the phrenic nerve; it then gets under cover of the pleura, and lower down lies between the triangularis sterni and the internal intercostal muscles; in the sheath of the rectus it sends branches to the walls of the abdomen. . The Branches of the internal mammary are,— Comes nervi phrenici, Anterior intercostal, Mediastinal, Perforating, Pericardiac, Musculo-phrenic. The Comes nervi phrenidi (phrenica superior), a long and slender