537 LACHRYMAL GLAND.—NASAL DUCT. . orbital portion, about three quarters of an inch in length, is flattened and oval in shape, and occupies the lachrymal fossa of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It is in contact superiorly with the peri- osteum, with which it is closely connected by its upper and convex surface; by its inferior or concave surface it is in relation with the globe of the eye, and the superior and external rectus; and by its anterior border with the broad tarsal ligament. By its posterior border it receives its vessels. The palpebral portion, smaller than the preceding, is situated in the upper eyelid, extending downwards to the superior margin of the tarsal cartilage. It is connected with the orbital portion above, and is enclosed in an investment of dense fibrous membrane. The secretion of the lachrymal gland is conveyed away by from eight to twelve small ducts which run for a short dis- tance beneath the conjunctiva, and open upon its surface by a series of pores, about one-twentieth of an inch apart, situated in a curved line a little above the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. Lachrymal canals.—The lachrymal canals commence at the minute openings, puncta lachrymalia, seen upon the lachrymal papillae of the lids at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis, and proceed inwards to the lachrymal sac, where they terminate beneath a valvular semilunar fold of the lining membrane. The superior duct at first ascejQds, and then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an albrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and remain constantly open, so that they act like capillary tubes in absorbing the tears from the surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is scarcely more dilated than the rest of the canal. It is lodged in the groove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished internally, from the nasal duct, by a semilunar or circular valve. The sac consists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the obicularis, which is inserted into the ridge of the lachrymal bone; it is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action upon the lachrymal canals may serve to compress the lachrymal sac. The Nasal duct is a short canal about three quarters of an inch in length, directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by an expanded orifice. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above, and with the pituary membrane of the nose below. Obstruction, from inflammation and suppuration of this duct, constitutes the disease called fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and Nerves. —The lachrymal gland is supplied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery, and with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic nerve.