STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. 638 nucleated epithelium, the remaining third representing the area of the tube. According to Bowman, the epithelium is ciliated in that part of the tubule which is near the Malpighian body, the tubule itself being very much constricted. In the cortical portion of the kidney are contained a multitude of minute, red, globular bodies, the corpora Malpighiana, or glomeruli. Each Malpighian body, about of an inch in diameter, is com- posed of a plexus of capillary vessels, and, in addition, according to Toynbee, of a coil of an uriniferous tubule; the tuft of capillaries and the coil of the tubule being both enclosed in a thin, membranous capsule. According to Bowman, the capsule of the Malpighian body is the origin of the uriniferous tubule expanded into a globular form for the reception of the capillary tuft. The capillary vessels of the vascular tuft are arranged in loops closely packed together, and surrounded by an epithelium which is continuous with a similar structure lining the inner surface of the capsule. They are derived from a small artery, which, after piercing the capsule, immediately divides in a radiated manner into several branches. From the in- terior of this little vascular ball a vein proceeds, smaller than the corresponding artery, and pierces the capsule close by the artery, to communicate with the efferent vessels of other Malpighian bodies and constitute a venous plexus. The cones or mamillary processes of the interior of the kidney are invested by mucous membrane, which is continuous at their apices with the uriniferous tubuli, and is reflected from their sides so as to form around each a cup- like pouch, or calyx. The calices communicate with a common cavity of larger size, situated at each extremity, and in the middle of the organ; and these three cavities, the infundihula, constitute by their union the large membranous sac, which emerges through the hilum renale, the pelvis of the kidney. The kidney in the embryo and foetus consists of lobules. See the anatomy of the foetus in the suc- ceeding Chapter. * Plan of the renal circulation; copied from Mr. Bowman's paper, a. A branch of the renal artery giving off several Malpighian twigs. 1. An efferent twig to the capUlary tuft contained in the Malpighian body m; from the Malpighian body the uriniferous tube is seen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent veins; that which proceeds from the Malpighian body is seen to be smaller than the corresponding artery, p, p. The capiUary venous plexus, ramifying upon the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent veins, 2, 2, and transmits it to the branch of the renal vein, v.