LUMBAR NERVES. 496 the integument of the anterior part of the gluteal region as low down as the trochanter major. The Anterior cutaneous nerves are divided according to their position into those of the thorax and those of the abdomen. Having reached the surface they are reflected outwards to supply the integument of the front of the trunk. The anterior cutaneous branches of the third and fourth intercostal nerves are distributed to the mammary gland. The Intercosto-hiimeral nerve is the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve ; after piercing the external inter- costal muscle it passes downwards into the axilla and communicates with a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of AYrisberg. It then perforates the deep fascia and is distributed to the integu- ment of the inner and back part of the arm to about the middle, and to the integument covering the lower part of the scapula. On the back of the arm it commimicates with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. This nerve sometimes takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg. LUMBAR NERVES. There are five pairs of lumbar nerves, of which the first makes its appearance between the first and second lumbar vertebra; the last between the fifth lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The anterior divisions increase in size from above downwards. They communicate at their origin with the lumbar ganglia of the sympa- thetic, and pass obliquely outwards behind the psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, sending twigs to that muscle and to the quad- ratus lumborum.^ In this situation each nerve divides into two branches, a superior branch which ascends to form a loop of com- munication with the nerve above; and an inferior branch which de- scends to join in like manner the nerve below. The communications and anastomoses which are thus established constitute the lumbar plexus. The ^posterior divisions diminish in size from above downwards ; they pass backwards between the transverse processes of the corre- sponding vertebrae, and each nerve divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards to be distributed to the multifidus spinse and inter- spinales. The external branches commimicate with each other by several loops, and, after supplying the deeper muscles, pierce the sacro-lumbalis to reach the integument to which they are distributed. The external branches of the three upper lumbar nerves descend over the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, and are distributed to the integument of the gluteal region. Lumbar plexus.—The Lumbar plexus is formed by the commu- nications and anastomoses which take place between the anterior