MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 580 five larger are tlie muscles of the chordse vocales and rima glottidis ; the three smaller are muscles of the epiglottis. The five muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis are, the— Crico -thyroid, Thyro - arytenoideus, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Arytenoideus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis, The Crico-thyroid muscle arises from the anterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted into the lower and inner border of the ala of the thyroid from its tubercle as far back as the inferior cornu. The Crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the depression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes upv/ards and outwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The Thyro-arytenoideus arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, close to the outer side of the chorda vocalis, and passes backwards parallel with the cord, to be inserted into the base and outer surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The Arytenoideus mxiBc\e occupies the posterior concave surface of the arytenoid cartilages, between which it is stretched. It consists of three planes of transverse and oblique fibres ; hence it was formerly considered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and ohliqui. The three muscles of the epiglottis are the— Thyro-epiglottideus, Aryteno-epiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior. The Thyro-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the upper fibres of the thyro- arytenoideus muscle ; theyspread out upon the external surface of thesacculus laryngis and in the aryteno-epiglot- tidean fold of mucous membrane, on which they are lost; a few of the anterior fibres being continued onwards to the side of the epiglottis (depressor epiglottidis). * Side \iew of the larynx, one ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. 1. Left ala of the thyroid cartilage. 2. Eight arytenoid cartilage. 3. Corni- cnlum laryngis. 4. Cricoid cartilage. 5. Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. 6. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis. 7. Thyro-arytenoideus. 8. Crico-thyroidean membrane. 9. One half of the epiglottis. 10. Upper part of the trachea.