232 MUSCLES OP THE PEKINEUM. the abdomen on its own side, and both together will constrict the entire cylinder of the cavity. The recti muscles, assisted by the pyramidales, flex the thorax towards the pelvis, and, through the medium of the line^ transversse, are enabled to act when their sheath is curved inwards by the action of the transversales. The pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The abdominal are expiratory muscles, and the chief agents of expulsion; by their action the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, faeces from the rectum, bUe from the gall-bladder, ingesta from the stomach and bowels in vomiting, and mucus and irritattag substances from the bronchial tubes, trachea, and nasal passages, during coughing and sneezing. To produce these effects, they all act together. Their violent and continued action produces hernia ; and, acting spasmodically, they may occa- sion rupture of the viscera. The quadratus lumborum draws the last rib downwards, and is an expiratory muscle ; it also serves to bend the vertebral column to one or the other side. The psoas parvus is a tensor of the iliac fascia, and, taking its fixed origin from below, it may assist in flexing the vertebral column forwards. The diaphragm is an inspiratory muscle, and the sole agent in tranquil inspiration. When in action, the muscle is drawn down- wards, its plane being rendered oblique from the level of the ensiform cartilage, to that of the upper lumbar vertebra. During relaxation it is convex, and encroaches considerably on the cavity of the chest, particularly at the sides, where it corresponds with the lungs. It assists the abdominal muscles powerfully in expulsion, every act of that kind being preceded or accompanied by a deep inspiration. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm produces hiccough and sobbing, and its rapid alternation of contraction and relaxation, combined with laryngeal and facial movements, laughing and crying. MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. The muscles of the perineum are situated in the outlet of the pelvis, and consist of two groups, one of which belongs especially to the organs of generation and urethra, the other to the termination of the alimentary canal. To these may be added the anterior muscles of the coccyx. The muscles of the perineal region in the male, are the Accelerator urinse, Sphincter ani, Erector penis. Levator ani, Transversus perinei, Coccygeus, Compressor urethr£e, Sacro-coccygeus anticus. Dissection.—To dissect the perineum, the subject should be fixed in the position for lithotomy, that is, the hands should be bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. An easier plan is