PL ANTAHIS. —POPLI'fEUS. 279 The Plantakis (planta, the sole of the foot), an extremely dimi- nutive muscle situated between the gastrocnemius and soleus, arises from the upper part of the outer condyle of the femur; and is in- serted, by its long and delicately slender tendon, into the inner side of the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo- Achillis ; having crossed obliquely between the two muscles. The SoLEUS (solea, a sole,) is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises from the head and upper half of the fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the tibia and from a tendi- nous arch thrown across between these two portions. Its fibres con- verge to the tendo-Achillis, by which it is inserted into the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. The tendinous arch gives passage to the popliteal vessels and nerve in their course to the leg. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gastrocnemius and plantaris. By its deep surface with the intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and peroneal vessels. Actions.—The three muscles (triceps surse, extensor pedis) of the calf draw powerfully on the os calcis, and lift the heel; continuing their action, they raise the entire body. This movement is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the fulcrum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body supported on the tibia) in the mi(3.dle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are, therefore, the walking muscles, and perform all move- ments that require the support of the whole body from the ground, as dancing, leaping, &c. Taking their fixed point from below, they steady the leg upon the foot. Deep layer. Popliteus, Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis. Tibialis posticus. Dissection.—After the removal of the soleus, the deep layer will be found bound down by an intermusculai fascia which is to be dissected away; the muscles may then be examined. The Popliteus muscle (poples, the ham of the leg) forms the floor of the popliteal region at its lower part, and is bound tightly down by a strong fascia derived from the middle slip of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. It arises by a rounded tendon from a deep groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, beneath the external lateral ligament and within the capsular liga- ment of the joint; and spreading obliquely over the head of the tibia, is inserted into the surface of bone above its oblique line. This line is called, from being the limit of insertion of the popliteus muscle, the popliteal line. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a thick fascia which separates it from the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteal vessels