566 ANATOMY OF THE HEAKT. ' Superior cava, Inferior cava, Openings - Coronary vein, Foramina Thebesii, . „„ , V Auriculo-ventricular. { EustacMan valve, I Coronary valve. ( Annulus ovalis, ( Fossa ovalis. j Tuberculum Loweri, ( Musculi pectinati. Valves Eelicts of fcetal structure Structure of tlie auricle The Superior cava returns tlie blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and back part of the auricle. The Inferior cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens through the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a stream rushing upwards by the inferior cava would force its current against the septum auricularum; this is the proper direction of the two currents during fcetal life. The Coronary vein returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Thehesii* are minute pore-like openings of small veins (vense minimse) which issue directly from the muscular struc- ture of the heart, without entering the venous current. These openings are also found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ventricles, but are generally believed to be mere csecal depressions. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is the large opening of commu- nication between the auricle and ventricle. The Eustachianf valve is a part of the apparatus of fcetal circula- tion, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere vestige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing some muscular fibres, is situated between the aperture of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening, and is generally connected with the coronary valve. The Coronary valve is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, * Adam Christian Thebesius. His discovery of the openings now known by his name is contained in his " Dissertatio Medica de Circulo Sanguinis in Corde," 1708. t Bartholomew Eustaehius, born at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of^Medicine in Eome, where he died in 1570. He was one of the founders of modern anatomy, and the first who illustrated his works with good engravings on copper.