LIGAMENTS OP THE LOWER JAW. 131 The external lateral ligament is a short and thick band of fibres, passing obliquely backwards from the tubercle of the zygoma, to the external surface of the neck of the lower jaw. It is in relation with, externally, the integument of the face; internally, the two synovial membranes of the articulation and the interarticular cartilage. The external lateral ligament acts conjointly with its fellow of the oppo- site side of the head in the movements of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament (spheno-maxillary) has no connexion with the articulation of the lower jaw, and is incorrectly named in relation to that joint; it is a thin aponeurotic expansion extend- ing from the extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the margin of the dental foramen; and is pierced at its insertion by the mylo-hyoidean nerve. A triangular space is left between the internal lateral ligament and neck of the jaw, in which are situated the internal maxillary artery, auriculo-temporal nerve, inferior dental artery and nerve, and part of the external pterygoid muscle; internally it is in rela- tion with the internal pterygoid muscle. The capsular ligament (membrana maxillae articularis) consists of numerous irregular ligamentous fibres, which pass from the edge of the glenoid cavity to the neck of the lower jaw, and surround the articulation; on the inner side of ; the joint they form a pretty strong fasciculus. The interarticular fibrous cartilage (cartilage intermedia) is a thin oval plate, thicker at the edges than in the centre, and placed horizontally between the head of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its outer border with the external lateral liga- ment, and in front receives some fibres of insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. It divides the joint into two distinct cavities, the one being above, the other below the cartilage; but is occasion- ally incomplete in the centre. The synovial membranes are situated, one above, the other below the fibrous cartilage, the former being the larger of the two. When * Internal view of the articulation of the lower jaw. 1. Section through the petrous portion of the temporal bone and spinous process of the sphenoid. 2. Internal surface of the ramus, and body of the lower jaw. 3. Capsular ligament. 4. Internal lateral ligament. 5. A small interval at its insertion through which the mylo-hyoidean nerve passes. 6. Stylo-maxiUary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia.