324 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY, The Superior dental artery (supramaxillaris vel alveolaris supe- rior) is given off from the internal maxillary, just as that vessel is alDOut to make its turn inwards to reach the spheno-maxillary fossa. It descends upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to sup- ply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw, and the antrum. The terminal branches are continued forwards upon the alveolar process, to be distributed to the gums and sockets of the teeth. The Tnfraorhitalis would appear, from its size, to be the proper continuation of the artery. It runs along the infraorbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, sending branches upwards into the orbit, and downwards, thiwgh canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum and the teeth of the upper jaw, and emerges on the face at the infraorbital foramen. The branch which supplies the incisor teeth is the anterior dental artery ; on the face the infraorbital inosculates with the facial and transverse facial artery. The Pterygo-palatine (pharyngea suprema vel descendens) is a smaU branch M^hich passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the mucous membrane of the posterior part of the nares, upper part of the pharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphe- noidal cells. The Spheno-palatine, or posterior nasal (nasaUs posterior ; spheno-palatina), enters the superior meatus of the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, in company with the nasal filaments of Meckel's ganglion, and divides into two branches ; one branch, arteria septi, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the septum, and inosculates in the anterior palatine canal with the terminal branch of the descending palatine ; the other, nasalis posterior externa, supplies the mucous membrane of lateral wall of the nares, the antrum, and the sphenoid and ethmoid cells. The Superior or descending palatine artery (palatraa superior vel descendens) descends along the posterior palatine canal, in com- pany with the palatine branches of jMeckel's ganglion, to the poste- rior palatine foramen ; it then bends forward, lying in a groove of the bone, and is distributed to the palate. While in the posterior palatine canal it sends several twigs backwards through the small posterior palatine foramina to supply the soft palate, and anteriorly it distributes a branch, ^^aZa/Mza anterior, to the anterior palatine canal, which reaches the nares and inosculates with the arteria septi. The Vidian or pter^/goid hranch passes backwards along the pterygoid canal, and is distributed to the sheath of the Vidian nerve, the Eustachian tube, and mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx.