INFERIOR VENA CAVA. 398 of the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein has no branch ; the left receives the vena sacra media. These veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava is formed by the union of the two common iliac veins, upon the intervertebral substance of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra. It ascends along the front of the vertebral column, on the right of the abdominal aorta, and passing through the fissure in the posterior border of the liver and the quadrilateral opening in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, terminates in the inferior and posterior part of the right auricle. There are no valves in this vein. It is in relation from below upwards, in front with the mesentery, transverse duodenum, portal vein, pancreas, and liver, which latter nearly and sometimes completely surrounds it; behind it rests on the vertebral column and right crus of the diaphragm, from which it is separated by the right renal artery and right lumbar arteries; to the right it has the peritoneum and sympathetic nerve; to the left the aorta. The Branches which the inferior vena cava receives in its course, are the— Lumbar, Supra-renal, Eight spermatic, Phrenic, Eenal, Hepatic. The Lumbar veins, three or four in number on each side, collect the venous blood from the muscles and integument of the loins, and spinal veins: the left are longer than the right on account of the position of the vena cava. The Right spermatic vein is formed by the two veins which return tlie blood from the venous plexus of the spermatic cord. These veins follow the course of the spermatic artery, and unite to form iJie single trunk which opens into the inferior vena cava. The left spermatic vein terminates in the left renal vein. The Ovarian veins represent the spermatic veins of the male, and collect the venous blood from the ovaries, round ligaments. Fallo- pian tubes, and communicate with the uterine sinuses. They ter- minate as in the male. The Renal or emulgent veins return the blood from the kidneys; their branches are situated in front of the divisions of the renal arte- ries, and the left opens into the vena cava somewhat higher than the right. The left is longer than the right in consequence of the posi- tion of the vena cava, and crosses the aorta immediately below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left sper- matic vein, which terminates in it at right angles : hence the more frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left than on the right side.