677 URACHUS—TESTES. is connected superiorly with a fibrous cord, called the umcJms, of which it appears to be an expansion. The Urachus is continued upwards to the umbilicus, and becomes connected with the umbilical cord. In animals it is a pervious duct, and is continuous with one of the membranes of the embryo, the allantois. It has been found pervious in the human foetus; and the urine has been known to pass through the umbilicus. Calcu- lous concretions have also been found in its course. The Uterus, in the early periods of embryonic existence, appears bifid, from the large size of the Fallopian tubes, and the small de- velopment of the body of the organ. At the end of the fourth month, the body assumes a larger bulk, and the bifid appearance is lost. The cervix uteri in the foetus is larger than the body of the organ. The Ovaries are situated, like the testicles, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys, and descend from thence, gradually, into the I)elvis. TESTES. The Testicles in the embryo are situated in the lumbar regions, immediately in front of and somewhat below the kidneys. They tave, connected with them inferiorly, a peculiar structure, which assists in their descent, and is called the gubernaculum testis. The Gubernaculum is a soft and conical cord, composed of cel- lular tissue, containing in its areolse a gelatiniform fluid. In the abdomen it lies in front of the psoas muscle, and passes along the spermatic canal, which it serves to distend for the passage of the testis. It is attached by its superior and larger extremity to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and by the inferior extremity to the bottom of the scrotum. The gubernaculum is surrounded by a thin layer of muscular fibres, the cremaster, which pass upwards upon this body to be attached to the testis. Inferiorly the muscular fibres divide into three processes, which, according to Curliag,* are thus attached : '' The external and broadest is connected to Pou- part's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band, which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos; the internal passes in the direction inwards, and has a firm attachment to the OS pubis and sheath of the rectus muscle. Besides these a number of muscular fibres are reflected from the internal oblique on the front of the gubernaculum." The Descent of the testicle is gradual and progressive. Between the fifth and sixth month it has reached the lower part of the psoas muscle, and during the seventh it makes its way through the sper- matic canal, and descends into the scrotum. * " On the Structure of the Grubernaculum," &c., by Mr. Curling, Lecturer on Morbid Anatomy in the London Hospital. Lancet, vol. ii. 1840-41, p. 70.