CAKPUS. 90 tubercle backwards, .the concavo-convex surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : by the concavo-convex surface, with the metacarpal bone of the thumb; and by the three facets of the other articular surface, with the scaphoid, trapezoid, and second metacarpal bone. Attachments.—To three muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor ossis metacarpi, and flexor brevis pollicis; and by the tubercle, to the annular ligament. The TRAPEZOIDES (os multangulum minus) is a small, oblong, and quadrilateral bone, bent near its middle upon itself (bean-shaped). It presents four articular surfaces and two extremities. One of the surfaces is concavo-convex, i. e. concave in one direction, and convex in the other; another, contiguous to the preceding, is concave, so as to be almost angular in the middle, and is often marked by a small rough depression, for an interosseous ligament; the two re- maining sides are flat, and present nothing remarkable. One of the two extremities is broad and of large size, the dorsal; the other, or palmar, is small and rough. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the broad extremity be upwards, and the concavo-convex surface forwards, the angular concave surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones: by the concavo-convex surface, with the second metacarpal bone; by the angular concave surface, with the OS magnum; and by the other two surfaces, with the trape- zium and scaphoid. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The OS MAGNUM (capitatum) is the largest bone of the carpus, and is divisible into a body and head. The head is round for the greater part of its extent, but flattened on one side. The body is irregularly quadrilateral, and presents four sides and a smooth extremity. Two of the sides are rough, the one being square and flat, the dorsal; the other rounded and prominent, the palmar; the other two sides are articular, the one being concave and the other convex. The ex- tremity is a triangular articular surface, divided into three facets. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the articular extre- mity look upwards, and the broad dorsal surface backwards (towards the holder), the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articidations.—With seven bones : by the rounded head, with the cup formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bone; by the side of the convex surface, with the trapezoides; by the concave surface, with the unciforme; and by the extremity, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. Attachments,—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. The UNCIFORME is a triangiilar-shaped bone, remarkable for a long and curved process, which projects from its palmar aspect. It pre- sents five surfaces; three articular, and two. free. One of the arti-