LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 579 3. The ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages are eight in number:— Two Capsular ligaments, with synovial membranes, which arti- culate the arytenoid cartilages with the cricoid, strengthened behind by two posterior crico-arytenoid bands or ligaments; and the superior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments are two thin bands of yellow elastic tissue which are attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior and inner border of each arytenoid cartilage. The lower border of this ligament constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx, and the fold of mucous membrane caused by its projection has been called the superior or false chorda vocalis. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or true chordce vocales, are thicker than the superior, and like them composed of yellow elastic tissue. Each ligament is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. The inferior border of the chorda vocalis is continuous with the lateral expansion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The superior border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The space between the two chordae vocales is the glottis or rima glottidis. 4. The ligaments of the epiglottis are • five in number, namely, three glosso-epiglottic, hyo-epiglottic, and thyro-epiglottic. The glosso-epiglottic ligaments (frsena epiglottidis) are three folds of mucous membrane, which connect the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the root of the tongue. The middle of these con- tains elastic tissue. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is a band of yellow elastic tissue passing between the anterior as- pect of the epiglottis near its apex, and the upper margin of the body of the os hyoides. The thyro-epiglottic ligament is a long and slender fasciculus of yellow elastic tissue, which embraces the apex of the epiglottis, and is inserted into the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately below the an- terior fissure and above the attachment of the chordae vocales. Muscles.—The muscles of the larynx are eight in number ; the Fig. 197.* * Posterior view of tlie larynx. 1. Thyroid cartilage, its right ala. 2. One of its ascending cornua. 3. One of the descending cornua. 4, 7. Cricoid cartilage. 5, 5. Arytenoid cartilages. 6. Arytenoideus muscle, consisting of oblique and transverse fasciculi. 7. Crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. 8. Epiglottis. p p 2