474 PNEUMOGASTRIC NEKVE. arises below tlie ganglion and pierces the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, to join the facial nerve. The Branches of distribution are The Tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) proceeds from the ganglion of Andersch, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately above the ganglion; it enters a small bony canal in the jugular fossa (page 35), and divides into six branches, which are distri- buted upon the inner wall of the tympanum, and establish a plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) with the sympathetic and fifth pair of nerves. The branches of distribution supply the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian tube : those of communication join the carotid plexus in the carotid canal, the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve, and the otic ganglion. The Carotid branches are several filaments which follow the trunk of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with the nervi molles of the sympathetic. The Muscular branch divides into filaments, which are distri- buted to the posterior belly of the digastricus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo- pharyngeus, and constrictor muscles. The Pharyngeal branches are two or three filaments which are distributed to the pharynx and unite with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerve to form the pharyngeal plexus. The Tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, near its termination ; they form a plexus (circulus tonsil- laris) around the base of the tonsil, from which numerous filaments are given off to the mucous membrane of the fauces and soft palate. These filaments communicate with the descending palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The Lingual branches enter the substance of the tongue beneath the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscle, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the side and base of the tongue, and to the epiglottis and fauces. Pneumogastric or Vagus nerve (par vagum).—The pneumo- gastric is the nerve of the respiratory organs and upper part of the alimentary canal, supplying branches to the larynx, trachea, lungs, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, and also giving branches to the heart. It arises by ten or fifteen filaments from the groove be- tween the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme, or rather from the anterior border of the latter, immediately below the glosso-pharyn- geal, and passes out of the skull through the inner extremity of the jugular foramen, being enclosed in a sheath of dura mater, which is common to it and the spinal accessory. The nerve then takes its course down the side of the neck, lying at first between the internal Tympanic, Carotid, Muscular, Pharyngeal, Tonsillitic, Lingual.