524 THE EYE, WITH ITS APPENDAGES. The form of the eyeball is that of a sphere, of about one inch in diameter, having the segment of a smaller sphere engrafted upon its anterior surface, which increases its antero-posterior diameter. The axes of the two eyeballs are parallel with each other, but do not correspond with the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the orbits, and therefore enter the eyeballs on their nasal side. The Grlobe of the eye is composed of tunics, and of refracting .media called hwmours. The tunics are three in number, the First tunic.—The Sclerotic and Cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball, and give it its peculiar form. Four-fifths of the globe are invested by the sclerotic, the remaining fifth by the cornea. The Sclerotic {(jK\r)pbg, hard) is a dense fibrous membrane, thicker behind than in front. It is continuous, posteriorly, with the sheath of the optic nerve, which is derived from the dura mater, and is pierced by that nerve as well as by the ciliary nerves and arteries. Anteriorly it presents a bevelled edge, which receives the cornea in the same way that a watch-glass is received by the groove in its case. Its anterior surface is covered by a thin tendinous layer, the tunica albuginea, derived from the expansion of the tendons of the four recti muscles. By its posterior surface it gives attachment to the two oblique muscles. The tunica albuginea is covered, for a part of its extent, by the mucous membrane of the front of the eye, the con- junctiva ; and, by reason of the brilliancy of its whiteness, gives occasion to the common expression, "the white of the eye." At the entrance of the optic nerve, the sclerotic forms a thin cribriform lamella {lamina cribrosa), which is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments. One of these openings, larger than the rest, and situated in the centre of the lamella, is the porus opticus, through which the arteria centralis retinae enters the eyeball. The Oornea (corneus, homy) is the transparent projecting layer that constitutes the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye. In its form it is circular, concavo-convex, and resembles a watch-glass. It is received by its edge, which is sharp and thin, within the bevelled 1. Sclerotic and Cornea, 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary processes, 3. Retina and Zonula ciliaris. Vitreous.