SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 508 the deep fascia, and divides into tlie internal and external cutaneous nerves of the foot. In its course it gives off several branches to the peronei muscles. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and communicates with the anterior tibial and internal saphenous. The external, or larger branch, supplies the adjacent sides of the second and third, third and fourth, and fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the external saphenous. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The Sympathetic consists of a vertebral and prevertebral portion ; the vertebral portion is composed of a series of ganglia united by an intermediate cord, extending along each side of the vertebral column from the head to the coccyx, communicating with all the other nerves of the body, and distributing branches to all the internal organs and viscera. The prevertebral portion is that part of the sympathetic which is distributed to the viscera, comprising the numerous plexuses of the head, chest, abdomen and pelvis. The sympathetic nerve communicates with the other nerves imme- diately at their exit from the cranium and vertebral canal. The fourth and sixth nerves, however, form an exception to this rule, for with these it unites in the cavernous sinus; with the olfactory in the nose; and with the auditory in the meatus auditorius internus. The branches of distribution accompany the arteries which supply the different organs, and form communications around them which are called plexuses and take the name of the artery with which they are associated : thus we have the n^esenteric plexus, hepatic plexus, splenic plexus, &c. All the internal organs of the head, neck, and trunk are supplied with branches from the sympathetic, and some of them exclusively; hence it is denominated the nerve of organic life. It is called the ganglionic nerve from being constituted of a number of ganglia; and from the constant disposition which it evinces in its distribution, to communicate and form small knots or ganglia. There are four sympathetic ganglia in the head ; namely, the oph- thalmic or lenticular, the spheno-palatine or Meckel's, the otic or Arnold's, and the submaxillary; three in the neck, superior, middle, and inferior cervical; twelve in the dorsal region; four in the lumbar region; and four or five in the sacral region. Each ganglion may be considered as a distinct centre, from which branches are given off in four different directions, viz., superior or ascending, to communicate with the ganglion above; inferior or descending, to communicate with the ganglion below ; external, to communicate with the spinal nerves; and internal, to communicate