564 PERICARDIUM.—HEART. Pericardium.—The pericardium is a fibro-serous membrane like the dura mater, and resembles that membrane also in deriving its serous layer from the reflected serous membrane of the viscus which it encloses. It consists, therefore, of two layers, an external fibrous and an internal serous. The fibrous layer is attached, above, to the great vessels proceeding from the heart, on which it is continuous with the thoracic fascia; and below, to the tendinous portion of the diaphragm. The serous membrane invests the heart with the com- mencement of its great vessels as high as the arch of the aorta, and is then reflected upon the internal surface of the fibrous layer. The Heart is placed obliquely in the chest, the base being directed upwards and backwards towards the right shoulder; the apeic forwards and to the left, pointing to the space between the fifth Fig. 193.* * Anatomy of the heart. 1. Eight auricle. 2. Entrance of the superior vena cava. 3. Entrance of the inferior cava. 4. Opening of the coronary vein, half closed by the coronary valve. 5. Eustachian valve. 6. Fossa ovalis, surrounded by the annulus ovalis. 7. Tuberculum Loweri. 8. Musculi pectiuati in the appendix auriculae. 9. Auriculo-ventricular opening. 10. Cavity of the right ventricle. 11. Tricuspid valve, attached by the chordae tendineae to the carnese colunmae (12). 13. Pulmonary artery, guarded at its com- mencement by three semilunar valves. 14. Eight pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. Left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta (*). Eemainsofthe ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cavae, it passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the ventricle, Sd thence through the puhnonary artery to the lungs. 16. Left auricle. , Openings of the four pulmonary veins. 18. Auriculo-ventricular opening.