83 HUMEEUS. Articulations.—With the clayicle and humenis. Attachment of Muscles.—To sixteen: by its anterior surface to the subscapularis; posterior surface, supra-spinatns and infra- spinatus ; superior border, omo-hyoid; posterior border, levator angnli scapulte, rhomboideus minor, rhomboideus major, and serratus magnus; anterior border, long head of the triceps, teres minor, and teres major; upper angle of the glenoid cavity, long tendon of the biceps; spine and acromion, trapezius and deltoid; coracoid process, pectoralis minor, short head of the biceps, and coraco-brachialis. The ligaments attached to the coracoid process are, coracoid, coraco- clavicular, and coraco-humeral, and the costo-coracoid membrane. Humerus.—The humerus is a long bone, and is therefore divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a rounded head; a constriction immediately around the base of the head, the neck; a greater and a lesser tuberosity. The greater tuberosity is situated most exter- nally, and is separated from the lesser by a vertical furrow, the bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. , The edges of this groove below the head of the bone are raised and rough, and called the anterior and posterior bicipital ridges; the former serves for the insertion of the pectoralis major muscle, the latter for the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The constriction of the bone below the tuberosities is the surgical neck, anji is so named, in contradistinction to the true neck, from being the seat of the accident called by surgical writers fractwre of the neck of the humerus. The shaft of the bone is prismoid at its upper part, and flattened from before backwards below. Upon the outer side, at about its middle, is a rough triangular eminence, which gives insertion to the deltoid; and immediately on each side of this eminence is a smooth depression, corresponding with the two heads of the brachialis anticns. Upon the inner side of the middle of the shaft is a ridge, for the at- tachment of the coracorbrachialis muscle; and behind, an oblique and shallow groove, which lodges the muscnlo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The foramen for the medullary vessels is situated upon the inner surface of the shaft of the bone a little below the coraco-brachial ridge; it is directed downwards. The loujer extremity is flattened from before backwards, and ter- minated inferiorly by a long articular surface, divided into two parts by an elevated ridge. The external portion of the articular surface is a rounded protuberance, eminentia capitata, which articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius; the internal portion is a concave and pulley-like surface, t7^ochlea, for articulation with the ulna. Projecting beyond the articular surface on each side are the external and i^iternal condyle, the latter being considerably the longer; and running upwards from the condyles upon the borders of the-bone are the condyloid ridges, of which the external is the G 2