82 SCAPULA. termination of the line of attachment of the tendon of the trapezius. The upper border of the spine is rough and subcutaneous, and gives attachment by two projecting lips to the trapezius above and deltoid below; the surfaces of the spine enter into the formation of the supra and infra-spinous fossa. The nutritious foramina of the scapula are situated in the base of the spine. The acromion, somewhat triangular in form, is flattened from above downwards; it overhangs the glenoid cavity, the upper surface being rough and subcu- taneous, the lower smooth and corresponding with the shoulder-joint. Near its extremity, upon the anterior border, is an oval articular surface, for the end of the clavicle. The coracoid process IB a thick, round, and curved process of bone, arising from the upper part of the neck of the scapula, and overarching the gle- noid cavity. It is about two inches in length and very strong ; it gives at- tachment to several liga- ments and muscles. Development.-—By six centres; one for the body, one for the coracoid pro- cess, two for the acro- mion, one for the inferior angle, and one for the posterior border. The os- sific centre for the body appears in the infra-spinous fossa at about the same time as the ossification of the vertebrae; for the coracoid process during the first year; the acromion process at puberty; the inferior angle in the fifteenth year; and the posterior border at seven- teen or eighteen. Union between the coracoid process and body takes place during the fifteenth year; the bone is not complete till manhood. * A posterior view of the scapula. 1. The supra-spinous fossa. 2. The infra-spinous fossa. 3. The superior border. 4. The supra-scapular notch. 5 The anterior or axillary border. 6. The head of the scapula and glenoid cavity. 7. The inferior angle. 8. The head of the scapula; the ndge oppo- site the number gives origin to the long head of the triceps. 9. The posterior border or base of the scapula. 10. The spine. 11. The triangular smooth surface, over which the tendon of the trapezius gUdes. The prominent pro- cess betAveen 10 and 11 is the tuberculum spinse scapulae. 12. The acromion process. 13. One of the nutritious foramina. 14. The coracoid process.