164 CHAPTEE III. OF THE MUSCLES. Muscles are the moving organs of the animal frame ; they consti- tute by their size and number the great bulk of the body, upon which they bestow form and symmetry. In the limbs they are situated around the bones, which they invest and defend, while they form to some of the joints a principal protection. In the trunk they are spread out to enclose cavities, and constitute a defensive wall capable of yielding to internal pressure, and again returning to its original position. Their colour presents the deep red which is characteristic of flesh, and their form is variously modified, to execute the varied range of movements which they are required to effect. Muscle is composed of a number of parallel fibres placed side by side, and supported and held together by a delicate web of cellular tissue ; so that, if it were possible to remove the muscular substance, we should have remaining a beautiful reticular framework, possessiag the exact form and size of the muscle without its colour and solidity. Towards the extremity of the organ the muscular fibre ceases, and the cellular structure becomes aggregated and modified, so as to constitute those glistening fibres and cords by which the muscle is tied to the surface of bone, and which are called tendons. Almost every muscle in the body is connected with bone, either by tendinous fibres, or by an aggregation of those fibres constituting a tendon ; and the union is so firm, that, under extreme violence, the bone itself rather breaks than permits of the separation of the tendon from its attachment. In the broad muscles the tendon is spread out so as to form an expan- sion, ca.lled aponeurosis (airo longe; vtvpov,* nerras, a nerve widely spread out). Muscles present various modifications in the arrangement of their fibres in relation to their tendinous structure. Sometimes they are completely longitudinal, and terminate at each extremity in tendon, the entire muscle being fusiform in shape ; in other situations they are disposed like the rays of a fan, converging to a tendinous poin^ as the temporal, pectoral, glutei, &c., and constitute a radiat-e muscle. Again, they are penniform, converging like the plumes of a pen to one side of a tendon, which runs the whole length of the muscle, as in the peronei; or hipenniform, converging to both sides of the tendon. In other muscles the fibres pass obliquely from the sur- * The ancients named all the white fibres of the body vsvpd : the term has since been limited to the nerves.