FASCIiE OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 299 fleeted upwards behind the transversi perinei muscles to become continuous with the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament; while, in front it is continuous with the dartos in the male, and is lost in the labia majora and nymphse in the female. The continua- tion of the perineal fascia into the triangular ligament along the posterior border of the trans v^ersi perinei muscles, is a barrier to the extension of extravasation of urine backwards, and the chief cause of its advance into the scrotum and lower part of the abdomen. The posterior portion of the perineal fascia (fascia analis; ischio- rectalis; Velpeau) lines the deep fossa (excavatio perinei) which sur- rounds the anus and levator ani muscles and is bounded externally by the ischia and internal obturator muscles, and behind by the glutei maximi, the ischio-rectal fossa. The ischio-rectal fascia is continuous with the anterior portion of the fascia perinei in front; invests the levatores ani as high as their origin, and the obturator fascia at each side, and is attached to the tuberosities of the ischia and great sacro-ischiatic ligaments. In the ischio-rectal fossa the two layers of the superficial fascia are separated by the masses of fat which fill that cavity. The deep perineal fascia (ligamentum triangulare; perineale; Camper's ligament) is a thin layer of aponeurosis which is stretched across the anterior portion of the outlet of the pelvis; it is attached on each side to the pelvic border of the ramus of the pubes and ischiuEtt as far back as the origin of the erector penis muscle. An- teriorly, it is convex and closely connected with the subpubic liga- ment ; while, posteriorly, it is concave, and turns forwards around the posterior border of the transversi perinei muscles, to become continuous with the superficial perineal fascia. At its middle, it is about an inch and a half in depth; at one inch below the pubic arch, it is pierced by the membranous portion of the urethra, and nearer the pubic arch, by the dorsal vein of the penis and internal pudic arteries. Directly behind the ligament are situated the compressor urethrae muscle, the arteries of the bulb, and Cowper's glands, and more deeply the pelvic fascia, which has been sometimes described as a posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia. FASCIA OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia of the upper extremity contains between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and superficial nerves. The deep fascia is thin over the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle, and in the axillary space, but thick on the dorsum of the scapula, where it binds down the infraspinatus muscle. It is attached to the clavicle, coracoid process, acromion process, and spine of the scapula, and forms a separate sheath for all the muscles of the scapula and shoulder. In the upper arm (fascia brachialis) it is somewhat stronger, receives fibres from the lower border of the pec- toralis major, latissimus dorsi, as also from the costo-coracoid mem-