THE LUNGS. 585 branous cavities enclosed by a plexus of capillary vessels, and con- nected together by cellular tissue. The cavities are filled with a yellowish fluid, in which are found cytoblasts and cells; the latter measuring y-^^^ of an inch in diameter. In young animals the cytoblasts lie in contact with the internal wall of the cavities, and constitute a kind of tesselated epithelium.* A muscle is occasionally found connected with its isthmus, or with the pyramid, and is attached, superiorly, to the body of the os hyoides, or to the thyroid cartilage. It was named by Soemmering the levator glaridulce thyroidece/''^g. 196. Vessels a,nd Nerves.—It is abundantly supplied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Sometimes an additional artery is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea to be distributed to the gland. The wounding of the latter vessel, in tracheotomy, might be fatal to the patient. The nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. THE LUNGS. The lungs are two conical organs, situated one on each side of the chest, embracing the heart, and separated from each other by that org^^n and by a membranous partition, the mediastinum. On the external or thoracic side they are convex, and correspond with the form of the cavity of the chest; internally they are concave, to receive the convexity of the heart. Superiorly they terminate in a tapering cone, which extends above the level of the first rib into the root of the neck, and inferiorly they are broad and concave, and rest upon the convex surface of the diaphragm. Their posterior border is rounded, broad, and long ; the anterior, sharp, short, and marked by one or two deep fissures; and the inferior border which surrounds the base is also sharp. The colour of the lungs is pinkish-grey, mottled, and variously marked with black. The surface is figured with irregularly polyhedral outlines, which represent the lobules of the organ, and the area of each of these polyhedral spaces is crossed by lighter lines representing smaller lobules. The weight of the lungs is about forty ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left. Each lung is divided into two lobes, by a long and deep fissure, which extends from the posterior surface of the upper part of the organ, downwards and forwards to near the anterior angle of its base. In the right lung the upper lobe is subdi vided by a second fissure, which extends obliquely forward from the middle of the preceding to the anterior border of the organ, and marks off a small triangular lobe. The left lung presents a deep notch in its anterior border, at a point corresponding with the apex of the heart. * Simon on the Comparative Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland. PMo- sopMcal Transactions, 1844.