14 DORSAL VERTEBRA. the dorsal region; it is thicker behind than before, and marked ou each side by two half-articulating surfaces for the heads of two ribs. The pedicles are strong, and the lamince broad and thick; the spinal foramen small and round, and the inferior intervertebral notch of large size, the superior can scarcely be said to exist. The spinous process is long, prismoid, directed very obliquely downwards, and terminated by a tubercle. The trans- verse processes arelarge and strong, and di- rected obliquely back- wards. Upon the an- terior and superior aspect of their sum- mits is a small facet for the articulation of the tubercle of a rib. The articular processes are vertical, the superior facing directly' backwards, the inferior directly forwards. The peculiar vertebrae in the dorsal region are, the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first dorsal vertebra approaches very closely in character to the last cervical. The body is broad from side to side, and concave above. The superior articular pro- cesses are oblique, and the spinous process horizontal. It has an entire articular surface for the first rib, and a half surface for the second. The ninth dorsal vertebra has only one half articular sur- face at each side. The tenth has a single entire articular surface at each side. The eleventh and ttuelfth have each a single entire ar- ticular surface at each side; they approach in character to the lumbar vertebrae; their transverse processes are very short, trifid at their summits, and have no articulation with the corresponding ribs. The transverse processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra are rudi- mentary, and its inferior articular processes look outwards. Lumbar Vertebrce.—These are the largest pieces of the vertebral column. The body is broad and large, and thicker before than behind. The pedicles very strong; the laminae short, thick, and broad; the inferior intervertebral notches very large, and the spinal/orame^t large and oval. The spinous process is thick and broad. The transverse processes (costiform processes) are slender, * A lateral view of a dorsal vertebra. 1. The body. 2,2. Articular facets for the heads of ribs. 3. The pedicle. 4. The superior intervertebral notch. 5. The inferior intervertebral notch. 6. The spinous process. 7. The extre- mity of the transverse process, marked by an articular surface for the tubercle of a rib. 8. The two superior articular processes looking backwards. 9. The two inferior articidar processes looking forwards.