STRUCTURE OF VEINS. 383 of the artery, and named vence comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, popliteal, femoral, &c., are accompanied by a single venous trunk. Sinuses differ from veins in their struc- ture; and also in their mode of distribution, being confined to especial organs and situated within their substance. The principal venous sinuses are those of the dura mater, diploe, cancellous struc- ture of bones, and uterus. The communications between veins are more frequent than those of arteries, and they take place between the larger as well as the smaller vessels; the vense comites communicate with each other in their course by means of short transverse branches which pass across from one to the other. These communications are strikingly ex- hibited in the frequent inosculations of the spinal veins, and in the various venous plexuses, as the spermatic plexus, vesical plexus, &c. The office of these inosculations is very apparent, as tending to obviate the obstructions to which veins are particularly liable from the thinness of their coats, and from their inability to overcome much impediment by the force of their current. Veins, like arteries, are composed of three coats, external or cellulo-fibrous, middle or fibrous, and internal or serous. The ex- ternal coat is firm and strong, and resembles that of arteries. The middle coat consists of two layers, an outer layer of contractile fibrous tissue disposed in a circular direction around the vessel, and an inner layer of organic muscular fibres arranged longitudinally. This latter resembles the inner layer of the middle coat of arteries, but is somewhat thicker; it is not unfrequently hypertrophied. The internal coat, as in arteries, consists of a striated or fenestrated layer, and a layer of epithelium; it is continuous with the internal coat of arteries through the medium of the lining membrane of the heart on the one hand, and through the capillary vessels on the other. The differences in structure, therefore, between arteries and veins, relate to the difference of thickness of their component layers, and to the absence of the elastic coat in the latter. Moreover, another difference occurs in the presence of valves. The valves of veins are composed of a thin layer of fibrous membrane, lined upon its two surfaces by epithelium. The segments or flaps of the valves of veins are semilunar in form, and arranged in pairs, one upon either side of the vessel; in some instances there is but a single flap, which has a spiral direction, and occasionally there are three. The free border of the valvular flaps is concave, and directed for- wards, so that while the current of blood is permitted to flow freely towards the heart, the valves are distended, and the current inter- cepted, if the stream become retrograde in its course. Upon the cardiac side of each valve the vein is expanded into two pouches (sinuses), corresponding with the flaps of the valves, which give to the distended or injected vein a knotted appearance. The valves are most numerous in the veins of the extremities, particularly in the deeper veins, and they are generally absent in the very small