STRUCTURE OP CARTILAGE. 119 diameter), separated from each other by an opaque, subfibrous, inter- cellular network, the breadth of the cells being considerably greater than that of the intercellular structure. The cells are parent cells, containing others of secondary formation, together with nuclei, nucleoli, granular matter, and oil globules, in greater number than those of true cartilage. The fibres are short, imperfect, loose in texture, and yellowish. Instances of reticular cartilage are, the pinna, epiglottis, and Eustachian tube. Fibrous cartilage is composed of a network of white, glistening fibres collected into fasciculi of various si2;e, and containing in its u Fig.G4i* meshes cells and a subfibrous tissue resembling that of reticular cartilage. The fibres of fibrous cartilage are identical with those of fibrous tissue, the cells are large (about TAirth of an inch), as in reticular cartilage, and the areolae are variable in dimensions. It is this latter character that constitutes the diffeience between difi"er- ent fibrous cartilages; some being composed almost entirely of fibres with few and small interstices, as the interarticular cartilages; while others exhibit large spaces filled with an imperfect fibrous tissue and cells, as the intervertebral substance. Fibrous cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups : inter- articular, stratiform, interosseous, and free. Instances of inter- articular fibrous cartilage (menisci) are those of the lower jaw, sternal and acromial end of the clavicle, wrist, carpus, knee, to which may be added the fibrous cartilages of circumference, glenoid, and cotyloid. The stratiform fibrous cartilages are such as form a thin coating to the grooves on bone through which tendons play. The interosseous fibrous cartilages are the intervertebral substance and symphysis pubis. The free fibrous cartilages are the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. * A portion of fibrous cartilage. The section ia made from the symphysis pubis, and magnified 155 times.