287 INTEROSSEI PLANTARES. ductor; while tlie adductor pollicis is as much a flexor as an adductor. Relations.—superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor Tbrevis digitorum, and the lumbricales. By- its deep surface with the interossei and ligaments of the metatarso- phalangeal articulations. The Flexor brevis minimi dioiti arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe on its outer side. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the fourth lumbricalis, abductor minimi digiti, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the plantar interosseous muscle of the fourth metatarsal space, and the metatarsal bone. Fourth Layer. Interossei plantares. The Interossei plantares muscles are three in number, and are placed upon rather than between the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base of the metatarsal bones of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon and base of the ;first phalanx of the same toes. In their action they are adductors. Relations.—'Bj ih&n: superficial surface with the dorsal interossei and metatarsal bones. By their deep surface with the external plantar artery and veins, adductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and flexor minimi digiti. Actions.—All the preceding muscles act upon the toes ; and the movements which they are capable of executing may be referred to four heads, viz. flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. In these actions they are grouped in the following manner:— Flexion. Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor brevis digitorum, Flexor accessorius. Flexor minimi digiti. Extetision. Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor brevis digitoriun. Adduction. Adduction. Interossei \ dorsal, Interossei, three dorsal, ' I three plantar. Abductor minimi digiti. The great toe, like the thumb in the hand, enjoys an independent action, and is provided with distinct muscles to perform its move- ments. These movements are precisely the same as those of the other toes, vi^.: