THE SPLEEN. 634 friable. The external surface is convex, tlie internal slightly con- cave, indented along tlie middle line, and pierced by several large and irregular openings for the entrance and exit of vessels; this is the Jiilum lienis. The upper extremity is somewhat larger than the lower, and rounded; the inferior is flattened; the posterior border is obtuse, the anterior sharp, and marked by several notches. The spleen is in relation by its external or convex surface with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs; by its concave surface, with the great end of the stomach, the extremity of the pancreas, the gastro-splenic omentum and. its vessels, the left kidney and supra-renal capsule, and the left crus of the diaphragm; by its upper end with the diaphragm, and some- times with the extremity of the left lobe of the liver; and, by its lower end, with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. It is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and to the diaphragm by a fold of the peritoneum called the sus- pensory ligament. A second spleen (lien succenturiatus) is sometimes found appended to one of the branches of the splenic artery, near the great end of the stomach; when it exists, it is round and of small size, rarely larger than a hazel-nut. There are sometimes two, and even three, of these bodies. The spleen is invested by the peritoneum and by a tunica propria of elastic tissue, which enables it to yield to the greater or less dis- tension of its vessels. The elastic tunic forms sheaths for the vessels in their ramifications through the organ, and from these sheaths small fibrous bands (trabeculse) are given off in all direc- tions, which become attached to the internal surface of the elastic tunic, and constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The substance occupying the interspaces of this tissue is soft, granular, and of a bright red colour, interspersed with small, white, soft cor- puscles (Malpighian bodies). These corpuscles, according to the re- searches of Oesterlen and Simon, are aggregations of cytoblasts enclosed in a kind of capsule of capillary vessels. There are, besides, separate cytoblasts abundantly scattered through the red substance. Vessels and Nerves.—The Splenic artery is of a very large size in proportion to the bulk of the spleen; it is a division of the cceliac axis. The branches which enter the spleen are distributed to distinct sections of the organ, and anastomose very sparingly with each other. The veins, by their numerous dilatations, constitute the principal part of the bulk of the spleen; they pour their blood into the splenic vein, which is one of the two great formative trunks of the portal vein. The lymphatics are remarkable for their number and large size; they ter- minate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are, the splenic plexus, derived from the solar plexus.