551 AUDITORY NERVE. openings in the inner wall of the vestibule, and is separated from the lining membrane of the labyrinth by the aqua labyrinthi. In struc- ture it is composed of four layers; an external or serous layer, derived from the lining membrane of the labyrinth; a vascular layer, in which an abundance of minute vessels are distributed; a nervous layer, formed by the expansion of the filaments of the vestibular nerve; and an internal and serous membrane, by which the limpid fluid which fills its interior is secreted. Some patches of pigment have been observed by Wharton Jones in the tissue of the membra- nous labyrinth of man. Among animals such spots are constant. The membranous labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, first well described by Scarpa, and thence named liquor Scarpse* (endolymph, vitreous humour of the ear), and contains two small calcareous masses, called otoconites. The otoconites {ovg, cjrbg, koviq, ear- dust) consist of an assemblage of minute, crystalline particles of car- bonate and phosphate of lime, held together by animal substance, and probably retained in form by a reflection of the lining membrane of the membranous labyrinth. They are found suspended in the liquor Scarpae; one in the sacculus communis, the other in the sacculus proprius, from that part of each sac with which the nerves are connected. ') The Auditory nerve divides into two branches at the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus; a vestibular nerve and a cochlear nerve. The vestibular nerve, the posterior of the two, divides into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch gives ofi" a number of filaments which pass through the minute openings of the eminentia pyramidalis and superior ventricle of the vestibule, and are distributed to the sac- culus communis and ampuUse of the perpendicular and horizontal semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch sends off nu- merous filaments, which pass through the openings of the macula cribrosa in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and are distri- buted to the sacculus proprius. The inferior and smallest branch takes its course backwards to the posterior wall of the vestibule, and gives off filaments which pierce the wall of the ampullary dila- tation of the oblique canal to be distributed upon its ampulla. According to Stiefensand, there is in the situation of the point of entrance of the nervous filaments into the ampulla a deep depression upon the exterior of the membrane, and upon the interior a corre- sponding projection, which forms a kind of transverse septum, par- tially dividing the cavity of the ampulla into two chambers. In the substance of the sacculi and ampuUse, the nervous filaments radiate * Antonio Scarpa is celebrated for several beautiful surgical and anatomical monographs; as, for example, his work on "Aneurism," "De Auditu et Olfactu," &c. An account of the aqua labyrinthi will be found in his ana- tomical observations " De Structura Fenestras Kotundae, et de Tympano Secundario."