481 SPINAL NERVES. The posterior roots, more regular than the anterior, proceed from the posterior lateral sulcus, a narrow grey stria formed by the internal grey substance of the cord. They are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous than those of the anterior roots. In the intervertebral foramina there is a ganglion on each of the posterior roots. The first cervical nerve forms an exception to these charac- ters ; its posterior root is smaller than the anterior; it often joins in whole or in part with the spinal accessory nerve, and sometimes with the hypo-glossal: there is frequently no ganglion upon it, and whela the,gangljon ex- ists^ itfeis often situated withiJj tiie^^dtira mater, the latter being the usual position of the ganglia of the last two pairs of spinal nerves. After the formation of a ganglion, the two rqots unite, and con- stitute a spinal nerve, which escapes through the intervertebral fora- men, and separates into an anterior division for the supply of the front aspect of the body, and a posterior division for the posterior aspect. In the first cervical, last sacral, and coccygeal nerve this division takes place within the dura mater and in the upper four sacral nerves externally to that cavity, but within the sacral canal. The anterior divisions, with the exception of the first two cervical nerves, are larger than the posterior; an arrangement which is proportioned to the larger extent of surface they are required to supply, * Part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord, viewed on its posterior aspect; showing its membranes and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 1, 1. Posterior median fissure. 2,2. Posterior roots of the cervical nerves; on the opposite side the corresponding roots are cut through near their origin. 3, 3. Membrana dentata. 4. Nervus accessorius, ascending between the posterior roots and membrana dentata; on the opposite side this nerve has been removed. 5, 5. Dura mater or theca vertebralis. 6, 6. Openings in the dura mater for the passage of the roots of the nerve. 7, 7. Gangha on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 8. Anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior roots have been cut away in order to show each anterior root proceeding to join the nerve beyond the ganglion.