649 URETHRA. temally, with' the mucous membrane of the bladder ; externally, with the investing membrane of the glans ; and at certain points of its extent, with the lining membrane of the numerous ducts which open into the urethra, namely, those of Cowper's glands, the pros- tate gland, vasa deferentia, and vesicul^ seminales. The elastic fibrous coat varies in thickness in the different parts of the course of the urethra : it is thick in the prostate gland, forms a firm in- vestment for the membranous portion of the canal, and is thin in the spongy portion, where it serves as a bond of connexion between the mucous membrane and the corpus spongiosum. The urethra is about eight inches in length, and is divided into a prostatic, mem- branous, and spongy portion. The Prostatic portion, a little more than an inch in length, is situated in the prostate gland, about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface, and extending from its base to its apex. Upon its lower circumference or floor is a longitudinal ridge or crest, the veru montanum, or caput gallinaginis, and on each side of the veru, a depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, in which are seen the numerous openings (15 to 20) of the prostatic ducts. The veru montanum is most prominent in the centre ; and im- mediately in front of the prominent part is the opening of a small C89cal sac, the sinus pocularis, or utriculus prostaticus. This sac is the analogue of the uterus; it is nearly half an inch in length, and extends back beneath the third lobe of the prostate. It causes, by its approach to the surface, the prominence of the veru montanum, and is composed of two coats, mucous and fibrous. The fibrous coat is thick, and contains on each side the ejaculatory duct. The mucous coat is provided with an abundance of muciparous glands. The ejaculatory ducts terminate on each side within the aperture of the sinus pocularis by slit-like openings. The prostatic portion of the urethra, when distended, is the most dilated part of the canal; but, excepting during the passage of urine, is completely closed by means of a ring of muscular tissue which encircles the urethra as far as the anterior extremity of the veru montanum. In the contracted state of the urethra, the veru montanum acts as a valve, being pressed upwards against the roof deferens is seen to be cut short off, close to its junction with the ejaculatory duct. 10. The membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Cowper's gland of the right side, with its duct. 12. The bulbous portion of the urethra; through- out the whole length of the urethra of the corpus spongiosum numerous lacunse are seen. 13. The fossa navicularis. 14. The corpus cayernosum, cut somewhat obliquely to the right side, near its lower part. The cha- racter of the venous-cellular texture is weU shown. 15. The right crus penis. 16. Near the upper part of the corpus cavernosum, the section has faUen a little to the left of the middle Une; a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. This figure also indicates the thickness of the fibrous in- vestment of the corpus cavernosum, and its abrupt termination at the base of (17) the glans penis. 18. The lower segment of the glans. 19. The meatus urinarius. 20. The corpus spongiosum. 21. The bulb of the corpus spon- giosum.