79 CLAVICLE. '-ribs forward to the anterior part of tlie chest, and contribute mainly . to the elasticity of the thorax. They are broad at their attachment to the ribs, and taper slightly towards the opposite extremity; they diminish gradually in breadth from the first to the last; in length they increase from the first to the seventh, and then decrease to the last. The cartilages of the first two ribs are horizontal in direction, the rest incline more and more upwards. In advanced age the costal cartUages are converted more or less completely into bone, this change taking place earlier in the male than in the female. The first seven cartilages articulate with the sternum; the three next, with the lower border of the cartilage immediately preceding ; the last two lie free between the abdominal muscles. All the car- tilages of the false ribs terminate by pointed extremities. Development.—The ribs are developed by three centres; one for the central part, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two' have no centre for the tubercle. Ossification commences in the body somewhat before its appearance iu the vertebras; the epiphysal centres for the head and tubercle appear between sixteen and twenty, and are consolidated with the rest of the bone at twenty- five. Articulations.—Each rib articulates with two vertebrae and one costal cartUage, with the exception of the first, tenth, eleventh and twelfth, which articulate each with a single vertebra only. Attachment of Muscles.—To the ribs and their cartilages are at- tached tuienty-two pairs, and one single muscle. To the cartilages, the subclavius, stemo-thyroid, pectoralis major, internal oblique, rectus, transversalis, diaphragm, triangularis sterni, internal and external intercostals. To the ribs, the intercostal muscles, scalenus anticus, scalenus posticus, pectoralis minor, serratus magnus, obliquus extemus, obliquus internus, latissimus dorsi, quadratus lumborum, serratus posticus superior, serratus posticus inferior, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, levatores cos- tarum, transversalis, and diaphragm. Clavicle.—The clavicle is a long bone, shaped like the italic letter /, and extended across the upper part of the side of the chest from the upper piece of the sternum to the point of the shoulder, where it articulates with the scapula. In position it is very slightly oblique, the sternal end being somewhat lower and more anterior than the scapular, and the curves are so disposed that at the sternal end the convexity, and at the scapular the concavity, is directed for- wards. The sternal half of the bone is rounded or irregularly quad- rilateral, and terminates in a broad articular surface. The scapular half is flattened from above downwards, and broad at its extremity, the articular surface occupying only part of its extent. The upper surface is smooth and convex, and partly subcutaneous; while the under surface is rough and depressed, for the insertion of the sub- clavius muscle. At the sternal extremity of the under surface is a