349 BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. below, and ascends obliquely to the lower border of the rib, with which it conies into relation near the angle of the bone. It then runs along the lower border of the rib, lying between the two planes of intercostal muscles to the front of the chest, where it inosculates with the corresponding anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. Besides the dorsal branch arid several small muscular branches, the intercostal artery, at about the middle of its course, gives off a large inferior branch, which runs along the upper border of the rib below to -the fore part of the chest, and inosculates with the inferior anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. "While between the two planes of intercostal muscles, the inter- costal artery is protected from pressure by little tendinous arches thrown across it and attached by each extremity to the bone. The upper pair of intercostal arteries inosculate with the superior inter- costals of the subclavians; the lower intercostals anastomose with the lumbar and epigastric arteries in the parietes of the abdomen. Spermatic, The Phrenic arteries (phrenicse; diaphragmaticae) are given off (frequently by a common trunk) from the anterior part of the aorta as soon as that vessel has emerged through the aortic opening. Pass- ing obliquely outwards upon the under surface of the diaphragm, each artery divides into two branches, an internal branch, which runs forward and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the oesophageal opening; and an external branch, which proceeds outwards towards the great circumference of the muscle, and sends branches to the supra-renal capsules. The phrenic arteries inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, intercostal, epi- gastric, oesophageal, gastric, hepatic, and supra-renal arteries. They are not unfrequently derived from the coeliac axis, or from one of its divisions, and sometimes they give origin to the supra-renal arteries. The C(ELiAC AXIS (coeliaca; KoiXia, ventriculus) is the first single trunk given off from the abdominal aorta. It arises opposite the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra, is about half-an-inch in length, and divides into three large branches, gastric, hepatic, and splenic. branches of the abdominal aorta. Phi-enic, ( Gastric, Cceliac axis, < Hepatic, ( Splenic. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric, Supra-renal, Renal, Lumbar, Sacra media.