67 ANATOMY OF THE TEETH. TEETH. Man is provided with two successions of teeth : the first are the teeth of childhood; they are called temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth; the second continue until old age, and are named permanent. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jaw; they are divisible into four classes: incisors, of which there are four in each jaw, two central and two lateral; canine, two above and two below; bicuspid, four above and four below; and molars, six above and six below. The temporary teetli are twenty in number: eight incisors, four canine, and eight molars. The temporary molars have four tubercles, and are succeeded by the permanent bicuspides, which have only two tubercles. Each tooth is divisible into a croion, which is the part apparent above the gum; a constricted portion around the base of the crown, the neck; and a root or fang, which is contained within the alveolus. The root is invested by periosteum, which lines the alveolus, and is at the same time adherent to the root of the tooth. The incisor teetJi (cutting teeth) are named from presenting a sharp and cutting edge, formed at the expense of the posterior surface. The crown is flattened from before backwards, being somewhat convex in front and concave behind; the neck is much constricted, and the' root compressed from side to side; at its apex is a small opening for the passage of the nerve and artery of the tooth. The canine teeth (cuspidati) follow the incisors in order from be- fore backwards; two are situated in the upper jaw, one on each side, and two in the lower. The crown is larger than that of the incisors, convex before, concave behind, and tapering to a blunted point. The root is longer than that of all the other teeth, compressed at each side, and marked by a slight groove. The bicuspid teeth (bicuspidati, small molars), two on each side in each jaw, follow the canine, and are intermediate in size between them and the molars. The crown is compressed from before back- wards, and surmounted by two tubercles, one internal, the other meatus, e. The spheno-palatine foramen. The middle turbinated bone. g, g. The middle meatus, h. A probe passed into the infundibular canal, leading from the frontal sinuses and anterior ethmoid cells; the triangular aperture immediately above the letter is the opening of the maxillary sinus. i. The inferior turbinated bone, k, k. The inferior meatus. I, I. A probe passed up the nasal duct, showing the direction of that canal. The anterior letters g, k, are placed on the superior maxillary bone, the posterior on the palate bone. m. The internal pterygoid plate, n. Its hamular f)rocess. o. The external pterygoid plate, p. The root of the pterygoid processes, q. The pos- terior palatine foramina, r. The roof of the left orbit, s. The optic ibra- men. t. The groove for the last turn of the internal carotid artery converted into a foramen by the development of an osseous conxmunication between the anterior and middle cliaoid process, v. The sella turcica, z. The posterior clinoid process. F 2