635 THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The supra-renal capsules are two small yellowish and flattened bodies surmounting the kidneys, and inclining inwards towards the vertebral column. The right is somewhat three-cornered in shape, the left semilunar; they are connected to the kidneys by the common investing cellular tissue, and each capsule is marked on its anterior surface by a fissure which appears to divide it into two lobes. The right supra-renal capsule is closely adherent to the posterior and under surface of the liver, the left lies in contact with the pancreas and spleen. Both capsules rest against the crura of the diaphragm on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra, and, by their inner border, are in relation with the great splanchnic nerve and semilunar gang- lion. They are larger in the foetus than in the adult, and appear to perform some office connected with embryonic life. The anatomy of these organs in the foetus will be found in the succeeding chapter. In structure they are composed of two substances, cortical and medullary. The cortical substance is of a yellowish colour, and con- sists of straight parallel columns placed perpendicularly side by side. Tjbie medullary substance is generally of a dark brown colour, double the quantity of the yellow substance, soft and spongy in texture, and contains within its centre the trunk of a large vein, the vena supra- renalis. It is the large size of this vein that gives to the fresh supra- renal capsule the appearance of a central cavity : the dark-coloured pulpy or fluid contents of the capsule, at a certain period after death, are produced by softening of the medullary substance. Dr. Nagel* has shown, by his injections and microscopic examinations, that the appearance of columns in the cortical substance is caused by the di- rection of a plexus of capillary vessels. Of the numerous minute arteries, supplying the supra-renal capsule, he says, the greater num- ber enter the cortical substance at every point of its surface, and, after proceeding for scarcely half a line, divide into a plexus of straight capillary vessels. Some few of the small arteries traverse the cortical layer, and give ofl", in the medullary substance, several branches which proceed in different directions, and re-enter the cor- tical layer to divide into a capillary plexus in a similar manner with the first described. From the capillary plexus, composing the cortical layer, the blood is received by numerous small veins which form a venous plexus in the medullary substance, and terminate at acute angles in the large central vein. According to the more recent researches of Oesterlen and Simon, the appearance of columns is due to groups of small corpuscles or cytoblasts associated with elementary granules and fat-cells collected together in the form of parallel cylinders or cones, each group being * Miiller's Archiv. 1836.