145 RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. ' ligaments. It surrounds inferiorly the head of the radius, and forms ■ an articulating sac between it and the lesser sigmoid notch. The muscles immediately surrounding, and in contact with, the elbow joint are, in front, the brachialis anticus; to i\iQ inner side, the pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris; externally, the extensor carpi ra- dialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supi- nator brevis; and behind, the triceps. Actions.—The movements of the elbow joint 2ire flexion axL^L extension; the extent of these movements being limited, in front by the coronoid process, and behind by the ole- cranon. 6. Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The ra- dius and ulna are firmly held together by ligaments, connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are, the Orbicular, Oblique, Interosseous, Anterior inferior, Posterior inferior, Ijiterarticular fibro-cartilage. The orbicular ligament {annulare, coro- nale) is a firm band several lines in breadth, which surrounds the head of the radius, and is attached by each end to an extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity. lb is strongest behind where it receives the external lateral ligament, and is lined on its inner surface by a reflection of the synovial membrane of the elbow joint. The rupture of this ligament permits of the dislocation of the head of the radius. The oblique ligament (called also ligamentum teres, in contra- distinction to the interosseous ligament) is a narrow slip of liga- mentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, a little below its tuberosity. The interosseous ligament (membrana interossea) is a broad and * An external view of the elbow joint. 1. The humerus. 2. The ulna. 3. The radius. 4. External lateral ligament inserted inferiorly into (5) the orbicular ligament. 6. The posterior extremity of the orbicular hgameut, spreading out at its insertion into the ulna. 7. The anterior h'gament, scarcely apparent in this view of the articulation, 8. The posterior ligament, thrown into folds by the extension of the joint. L