304 FASCIA OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. made upon the abdominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced througb the femoral ring into the inftindibuliform space in the sheath of the femoral vessels, carrying before it the peritoneum and septum crurale,—this constitutes femoral hernia. If the causes which gave rise to the formation of the hernia continue, the intestine, unable to extend further down the sheath, from the close connexion of the latter with the vessels, will, in the next place, be forced forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, carrying before it two additional coverings, the sheath of the vessels or fascia propria, and the cribriform fascia; and then, curving up- wards over Poupart's ligament, the hernia will become placed beneath the superficial fascia and integument. The direction which femoral hernia takes in its descent is at first downwards, then forivards, and then upwards; and in endeavour- ing to reduce it, the application of the taxis must have reference to this course, and be directed in precisely the reverse order. The coverings of femoral hernia are, the Integument, Fascia propria. Superficial fascia, Septum crurale, Cribriform fascia, Peritoneal sac. The deep fascia of the leg (fascia cruralis) is attached to the inner and outer tuberosity of the tibia and head of the fibula, and receives an accession of fibres from the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis and biceps. Between its points of attachment, and especi- ally behind, it is continuous with the fascia of the thigh. In the front of the leg it encloses the tibialis anticus and extensor muscles, and affords origin to some of their fibres. On the outer side it forms a sheath for the peronei muscles; and behind two sheaths superficial and deep; the former for the gastrocnemius and soleus with the tendo-Achillis; the latter for the deep flexor muscles. At the ankle these four sheaths are differently arranged; the posterior superficial sheath terminates on the os calcis with the tendo-Achillis ; the posterior deep sheath is attached on the one side to the border of the internal malleolus, on the other to the os calcis and inner side of the foot, being blended with the origin of the abductor pollicis. This portion of the deep fascia is the internal annular ligament (laciniatum internum); it sends processes inwards to divide the tendons of the flexors and form sheaths for them in their passage into the foot. The sheath of the peronei muscles at the outer ankle is attached to the external malleolus on one side, and the border of the OS calcis on the other, and forms the external annidar ligament "(laciniatum externum). The anterior portion of the fascia forms at the ankle the anterior annular and the cruciform ligament. The anterior annular ligament (transversum) is a band of transverse fibres about an inch and a half in breadth, situated immediately above the joint, and attached to the tibia and fibula on either side. The cruciformligament (cruciatum) is composed of two bands about