16 VEETEBKAL COLUMN. and towards its lower part assume tlie direction of the lumbar spines, wMch are quite horizontal. The transverse processes developed in their most rudimentary form in the axis, gradually increase in length to the first dorsal vertebra. In the dorsal region they project ob- liquely backwards, and diminish suddenly in length in the eleventh and twelfth vertebras, where they are very small. In the lumbar region they increase in length to the middle vertebra, and again subside to the last. The transverse processes consist essentially of two parts, the anterior of which in the dorsal region is the rib, while the posterior retains the name of transverse process. In the cervical region these two elements are quite apparent, both by their different points of attachment to the vertebra, and by the vertebral foramen which divides them at their base. In the lumbar region the so-called transverse processes are in reality lumbar ribs, while the transverse processes will be found behind them in a rudimentary state, de- veloped, like the true transverse processes in the cervical region, from the superior articular processes. When the anterior and pos- terior transverse processes are examined in relation with each other, they will be observed to converge; if they were prolonged they would unite as in the cervical region and enclose a foramen, or they would rest in contact as in the dorsal region, or become consolidated as in the formation of the sacrum. Moreover, the posterior transverse processes are directed upwards, and if they were prolonged, they would come into contact with a small tubercle which is found at the base of the posterior transverse process (in strongly marked vertebrae) in the vertebra above. This junction would form a posterior inter- vertebral foramen, as actually occurs in the sacrum. In brief, the lumbar vertebrae exhibit those transitional changes which are calcu- lated, by an easy gradation, to convert separate vertebrae into a solid bone. The transverse processes of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae are interesting in a transcendental point of view, as exhibiting a tendency, which exists obscurely in all the rest, to trifurcate. Now, supposing these three branches to be lengthened in order to fulfil their purposes, the anterior would constitute the articTilation or union with a rib, while the superior and inferior would join similar branches in the vertebra above and below, and form a posterior intervertebral foramen. The intervertebral foramina formed by the juxtaposition of the intervertebral notches are smallest in the cervical region, and gradu- ally increase to the last lumbar. On either side of the spinous pro- cesses, and extending the whole length of the column, is the verte- bral groove, which is shallow and broad in the cervical, and deeper and narrower in the dorsal and lumbar regions. It lodges the prin- cipal muscles of the back. Viewed from the side, the vertebral column presents several curves, the principal of which is situated in the dorsal region, the concavity looking forwards. In the cervical and lumbar regions the column