PERITONEUM. 596 These, therefore, are the boundaries of the foramen of Winsloiv, which is nothing more than a constriction of the general cavity of the peritonenm at this point, arising out of the necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries to pass forwards from the coeliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow, it will de- scend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omentum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peri- toneum, and that external to the foramen the greater cavity ; in which case the foramen is considered as the means of communication between the two. There is a great objection to this division, as it might lead the inexperienced to believe that there were really two cavities. There is but one only, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communication between the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The Great omentum (gastro-colic) consists of four layers of peri- toneum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two, returning upon themselves to the transverse colon. A quantity of adipose substance is deposited around the vessels which ramify through its structure. It would appear to perform a double function in the economy :—1st. Protecting the intestines from cold ; and, 2ndly. Facilitating the movement of the intestines upon each other during their vermicular action. The Transverse meso-colon {jxectoq, middle, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine) is the medium of connexion between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine, and encloses between its layers, at the posterior part, the transverse portion of the duodenum. It also forms a transverse septum across the abdominal cavity. The Mesentery {iikaov tvrspov, being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connexion between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is oblique in its direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. It retains the small intestines in their places, and gives pas- sage to the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. The Meso-rectum, in like manner, retains the rectum in con- nexion with the front of the sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds in the pelvis, as the recto-vesical fold, the false liga- ments of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus. The Appendices epiploicce are small irregular pouches of the peritoneum, filled with fat, and situated like fringes upon the large intestine. Three other duplicatures of the peritoneum are situated in the sides of the abdomen; they are the gastro-phrenic ligament, the