VAS DEFERENS. 655 which constitute, by their complex convolutions, the body of the epididymis. The tubes become gradually larger towards the lower end of the epididymis, and ter- minate in a single large and con- voluted duct, the vas deferens. The Ejndidymis is formed by the convolutions of the excretory seminal ducts, externally to the testis, and previously' to their ter- mination in the vas deferens. The more numerous convolutions and the aggregation of the coni vasculosi at the upper end of the organ constitute the globus major; the continuation of the convolu- tions downwards is the body; and the smaller number of convolutions of the single tube atthelower extre- mity, the globus minor. The tubuli are connected together by a very delicate cellular tissue, and are enclosed by the tunica vaginalis. A small convoluted duct, of variable length, is generally con- nected with the duct of the epidi- dymis immediately before the com- niencement of the vas deferens. This is the vasculum aberrans of Haller ; it is attached to the epididymis by the cellular tissue in which that body is enveloped. Sometimes it becomes dilated to- wards its extremity, but more frequently retains the same diameter throughout. The Fas deferens may be traced upwards, from the globus minor of the epididymis along the posterior part of the spermatic cord, and along the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it is reflected inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder, and descends along its posterior surface, crossing the direc- tion of the ureter, to the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes somewhat larger in size and sacculated, and terminates at the base of the prostate gland, by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis and constituting the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory duct, which is thus formed by the junction of the t Anatomy of the testis. 1, 1. The tunica albnginea. 2, 2. The medias- tinum testis. 3, 3. The lobuU testis. 4, 4. The vasa recta. 5. The rete testis. 6. The vasa efferentia, of which six only are represented in this diagram. 7. The coni rasculosi, constituting the globus major of the epidi- dymis. 8. The body of the epididymis. 9. The globus minor of the epidi- dymis. 10. The vas deferens. 11. The vasculum aberrans.