102 PEMUR, for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus; and beneath the tubercle, on the upper surface of the condyle, a depression from which the internal head of the gastrocne- Fig. 54.* mius arises. The outer side of the internal condyle is rough and concave, for the at- tachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Development.—By five centres; one for the shaft, one for each extremity, and one for each trochanter. The femur is the first of the long bones to show signs of ossifica- tion. In it, ossific matter is found imme- diately after the maxillse and before the ter- mination of the second month of embryonic life. The secondary deposits take place in the following order: in the condyloid ex- tremity+ during the last month of foetal life; in the head towards the end of the first year; in the greater trochanter between the third and fourth year; in the lesser trochanter between the thirteenth and fourteenth. The epiphyses and apophyses are joined to the diaphysis in the reverse order of their appearance, the junction commencing after puberty and not being completed for the condyloid epiphysis imtil after the twentieth year. Articulations.—With three bones ; os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty- three; by the greater trochanter, to the gluteus medius and minimus, pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, ge- mellus inferior, obturator externus, and quadratixs femoris; by the lesser trochanter, to the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By the linea aspera, its outer Kp, to the vastus externus, gluteus maximus, and short head of the biceps; by its inner * A diagram of the posterior aspect of the right femur, showing the Knes of attachment of the muscles. The muscles attached to the inner Hp are,— ^, the pectineus; a 6, the adductor brevis; and a Z, the adductor longus. The middle portion is occupied for its whole extent by a m, the adductor magnus; and is continuous superiorly with q f, the linea quadrati, into which the quadratus femoris is inserted. The outer lip is occupied by g m, the gluteus maximus; and b, the short head of the biceps. t Cruveilhier remarks that this centre is so constant in the last fortnight of fcetal life, that it may be regarded as an important proof of the foetus having reached its full term.