532 CRYSTALLINE HUMOUR OR LENS. the capsule of the lens. This vessel is injected without difficulty in the foetus. The Crystalline humour or lens is situated immediately behind the pupil, and surrounded by the ciliary processes, which slightly overlap its margin. It is more convex on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, from which it is separated by the hyaloid membrane. It is invested by a peculiarly transparent and elastic membrane, the capsule of the lens, which contains a small quantity of fluid, called liquor Morgagni,* and is retained in its place by the attachment of the zonula ciliaris. Dr. Jacob is of opinion that the lens is con- nected to its capsule by means of cellular tissue, and that the liquor Morgagni is the result of a cadaveric change. The lens consists of concentric layers, of which the external are soft, the next firmer, and the central form a hardened nucleus. These layers are best demonstrated by boiling, or by immersion in alcohol, when they separate easily from each other. Another division of the lens takes place at the same time: it splits into three triangu- lar segments, which have the sharp edge directed towards the centre, and the base towards the circumference. The concentric lamellse are composed of minute parallel fibres, which are united with each other by means of scalloped borders, the convexity of one border fitting the concave scallop of the other. Immediately around the circumference of the lens is a triangular canal, the canal of Petit, f about a line and a half in breadth. It is bounded, in front, by the flutings of the zonula ciliaris ; behind, by the hyaloid membrane ; and within, by the border of the lens. Vessels and nerves.—The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the long and short, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria cen- tralis retinas. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forward on each side, be- tween that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where each divides into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid mem- brane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries. They enter the eye through the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these latter arteries, in iritis, that gives rise to the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea which accompanies that disease. The Arteria centralis retince enters the optic nerve at about half * John Baptist Morgagni was born in 1682. He was appointed Professor of Medicine in Bologna, and published the first part of his "Adversaria Ana- tomica," in 1706. He died in 1771. t John Louis Petit, a celebrated French surgeon: he published several surgical and anatomical Essays, in the early part of the 18th century. He died in 1750.