STRUCTURE OP MUSCLE. 167 Fig. 95. Mg. 96.t into transverse segments, corresponding with the dark lines of the striae, and consequently with the constrictions of the fibrillae. Where this division occurs with the greatest facility, the longi- tudinal lines are indistinct, or scarcely perceptible. "In fact," says Mr. Bowman, "the primi- tive fasciculus seems to consist of primitive component segments or particles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fibrillse, and in ano- ther sense, discs: and which of these two may happen to present itself to the observer, will depend on the amount of adhesion, end- ways or sideways, existing between the segments. Grenerally, in a recent fasciculus, there are transverse striae, showing divisions into discs, and longitudinal striae, marking its composition by fibrillse." Mr. Bowman has observed that in the substance of the ultimate fibre there exist minute '' oval or circular discs, frequently concave on one or both surfaces, and containing, somewhere near the centre, one, two, or three minute dots or granules," Occasionally they are seen to present irregularities of form, which Mr. Bowman is in- clined to regard as accidental. They are sitiiated between and are con- nected with the fibrils, and are dis- tributed in pretty equal numbers through the fibre. These cor- puscles are the nuclei of the nucle- ated cells out of which the muscu- lar fibre was originally developed. From observing, however, that their '' absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, rela- tively to the bulk of the fasciculi, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same," Mr. Bowman believes that, " during.develop- ment, and subsequently, a further and successive deposit of cor- puscles" takes place. The corpuscles are brought into view only when the muscular fibre is acted upon by a solution of *' one of the milder acids, as the citric." * An ultimate fibre, in which the transverse splitting into discs, in the direction of the constrictions of the ultimate fibrUs, is seen. After Bow- man. t Mass of ultimate fibres from the pectoralis major of the human foetus, at nine months. These fibres have been immersed in a solution of tartaric acid, and their "numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some present- ing nucleoli," are shown. After Bowman,