495 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. cutaneous. The intercostal nerve, near its origin, receives one or two filaments from the dorsal ganglion of the sympathetic, and midway between the vertebral column and sternum while situated between the intercostal muscles it gives olf a lateral cutaneous branch which pierces the external intercostal muscle and divides into an anterior and posterior twig for the supply of the integument of the side of the thorax. This description applies in full only to the six upper intercostal nerves ; the six lower, with the exception of the last, cross the car- tilages of the ribs where the thorax is deficient and take their course between the internal oblique and transversalis muscle to the sheath of the rectus, and, after supplying that muscle, to the linea alba, by the side of which they reach the integument constituting the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. The first and the last intercostal nerve are exceptions to this general scheme of distribution. Ilie first ascends over the first rib to join the brachial plexus, and gives off only a small branch, to take the usual course of the other intercostal nerves. The last or twelfth nerve lies below the last rib, and after crossing the qua- dratus lumborum takes its course between the internal oblique and transversalis muscle like the other inferior intercostals. Near its origin it sends a branch, the dorsi-lumbar, downwards to join the firs^ lumbar nerve. The Branches of the intercostal nerves are, muscular, lateral cutaneous, and anterior cutaneous. The Muscular branches are small twigs distributed to the inter- costal and neighbouring muscles. The Lateral cutaneous nerves given off from the intercostals at about the middle of the lateral half of the thorax, pierce the ex- ternal intercostal muscle and pass between the fibres of the serratus magnus above and the obliquus externus below to reach the sur- face. The lateral cutaneous nerve then divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The anterior branches are directed forwards to supply the integument of the antero-lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior branches turning around the inferior border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland. The posterior branches take their course backwards to supply the integument of the postero- lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior turning around the posterior border of the axilla to reach the integument over the lower part of the scapula and latissimus dorsi muscle ; and that from the third intercostal being distributed to the integument of the axilla and neighbouring part of the arm. The first intercostal gives off no lateral cutaneous nerve ; the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve will be presently described, under the name of intercosto-humeral nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last intercostal nerve pierces the internal and external oblique muscle, crosses the crest of the ilium just behind the tensor vaginae femoris, and is distributed to