STRUCTURE OP MUSCLE. 165 face of a tendinous expansion spread out on one side, to that of another extended on the opposite side, as in the semi-membranosus ; or, they are composed of penniform or bipenniform fasciculi, as in the deltoid, and constitute a compound muscle. The nomenclature of muscles is defective and confused, and is generally derived from some prominent character which each muscle presents ; thus, some are named from their situation, as the tibialis, peroneus; others from their uses, as the flexors, extensors, adductors, abductors, levators, tensors, &c. Some again from their form, as the trapezius, triangularis, deltoid, &c.; and others from their direction, as the rectus, obliquus, transversalis, &c. Certain muscles have re- ceived names expressive of their attachments, as the stemo- mastoideus, sterno-hyoideus, &c.; and others, of their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastricus, complexus, &c. In the description of a muscle we express its attachment by the words "origin" and "insertion": the term oW(/m is generally applied to the more fixed or centfal attachment, or to the point towards which the motion is directed, while insertion is assigned to the more move- able point, or to that most distant from the centre ; but there are exceptions to this principle, and as many muscles pull equa,lly towards both extremities, the use of such terms must be regarded as purely arbitrary. In structure, muscle is composed of bundles of fibres of variable size called fasciculi, which are enclosed in a cellular membranous invest- ment or sheath, and the latter is continuous with the cellular frame- work oi the fibres. Each fasciculus is composed of a number of smaller bundles, and these of single fibres, which, from their minute size and independent appearance, have been dis- Fig, 92 .f tinguished by the name of ultimate fibres. The ultimate fibre is found by microscopic investigation to be itself a fasciculus (ultimate fasciculus), made up of a number of ultimate fibrils enclosed in a delicate sheath or myolemma.*' Two kinds of ultimate muscular fibre exist in the animal economy ; viz., that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic life. The ultimate fibre of animal life is known by its size, by its uniformity of calibre, and especially by the transverse markings which occur at minute and regular * In the summer of 1836, while engaged with Dr. Jones Quain in the ex- amination of animal tissues with a simple dissecting microscope, constructed by Powell, I first saw that the tdtimate fibre of muscle was invested by a proper sheath, for which I proposed the term " Myolenraia;" a term which was adopted by Dr. Quain in the fourth edition of his " Elements of Anatomy." We at that time beheved that the transverse folding of that sheath gave rise to the appearance of transverse striae, an opinion which subsequent examina- tions proved to be incorrect. Mr. Bovrman has since employed the term " Sarcolemma," as synonymous with Myolemma, t A muscular fibre of animal life enclosed in its myolemma j the transverse and longitudinal striae are seen.