LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 134 terirnm) is a small but strong fasciculus, passing obliquely from tbe tubercle of the rib to the apex of the transverse process. The ar- ticulation between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process is provided with a small synovial membrane. There is no anterior costo- transverse ligament to the first or last rib; and only rudi- mentary posterior costo-trans- verse ligaments to the eleventh and twelfth ribs. Several acces- sory bands [ligamenta acces- soria) are found passing be- tween the transverse processes and the ribs ; a broad band of this kind connects the last rib with the trans verse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra. A ctions. — The movements permitted by the articulations of the ribs are ujnvards, down- wards, and slightly forioards and backwards; the move- ment increasing in extent from the head to the extremity of the rib. The forward and backward movement is very trifling in the seven superior, but greater in the inferior ribs; the eleventh and twelfth are very movable. 7. Articulation of the Ribs with the Sternum, and with each other.—The ligaments of the costo-sternal articulations are— Anterior costo-sternal, Posterior costo-sternal, Superior costo-sternal, Inferior costo-sternal, Synovial membranes. The anterior costo-sternal ligament (lig. costo-stemale radiatum) is a thin band of ligamentous fibres, passing in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, and intermingling its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The posterior costo-sternal ligament, much smaller than the an- terior, consists of a thin fasciculus of fibres, situated on the pos- terior surface of the articulation. The superior and inferior costo-sternal ligaments are narrow * A posterior view of a part of the thoracic portion of the vertebral cohunn, showing the hgaments connecting the vertebrae with each other and the ribs with the vertebrae. 1, 1. Supra-spinous hgament. 2, 2. Ligamenta subflava, connecting the laminae. 3. Anterior costo-transverse ligament. 4. Posterior oosto-transverse ligaments.