114 CHAPTEE II. OF THE LIGAMENTS. The bones are variously connected witli each other in the con- struction of the skeleton, and the connexion between any two bones constitutes a joint or articulation. If the joint be immovable, the surfaces of the bones are applied in direct contact; but if motion be intended, the opposing surfaces are expanded and coated by an elastic substance named cartUage; a fluid secreted by a membrane closed on all sides lubricates their surface, and they are firmly held together by means of short bands of glistening fibres, which are called ligaments (ligare, to bind). The study of the ligaments is termed syndesmology (avv, together, Stcrfxbg, bond), which, with the anatomy of the articulations, forms the subject of the present chapter. The forms of articulation met with in the human frame may be considered under three classes: Synarthrosis, Amphi-arthrosis, and Diarthrosis. Syistarthrosis {avv, dpOpojaig, articulation) is expressive of the fixed form of joint in which the bones are immovably connected with each other. The kinds of synarthrosis are four in number. Sutitra, ^ Harmonia, Schindylesis, Gomphosis. The characters of the three first have been sufficiently explained in the preceding chapter, p. 56. It is here only necessary to state that, in the construction of sutures, the substance of the bones is not in immediate contact, but separated by a layer of membrane, which is continuous externally with the peri- cranium and internally with the dura mater. It is the latter con- nexion which gives rise to the great difficulty sometimes experienced in tearing the calvarium from the dura mater. Cruveilhier de- scribes this interposed membrane as the sutural cartilage; I never saw any structure in the sutures which could be regarded as car- tilage, and the history of the formation of the cranial bones would suggest a different explanation. The fourth, Gomphosis [yofupog, a nail), is expressive of the insfertion of one bone into another, as a nail is fixed into a board; this is illustrated in the articulation of the teeth with the alveoli of the maxillary bones. Amphi-arthrosis {d}x(pi, both, dpOpioaig) is a joint intermediate in aptitude for motion between the immovable synarthrosis and the movable diarthrosis. It is constituted by the approximation of sur- faces partly coated with cartilage lined by synovial membrane, and