POPLITEAL ARTEKY. 371 inosculate above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery, that the collateral circulation is main- tained in the limb after ligature of the femoral artery. The Muscular branches are given off by the femoral artery throughout the whole of its course. They supply the muscles in immediate proximity with the artery, particularly those of the an- terior aspect of the thigh. One of these branches, larger than the rest, arises from the femoral immediately below the origin of the profunda, and passing outwards between the sartorius and rectus, divides into branches, which are distributed to all the muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. This may be named the superior muscular artery. The Anastomotica magna (articularis genu superficialis) arises from the femoral near its termination at the opening in the adductor magnus, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The su2oerficial branch accompanies the internal saphenous nerve to the knee, and piercing the fascia lata is distributed to the integument. The deep branch passes onwards through the substance of the vasttjs internus muscle and resting on the tendon of the adductor magnus to the knee, where it inosculates with the internal articular branches of the popliteal, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. It also sends a branch through the vastus internus, which supplies the synovial membrane of the joint, and inosculates with the superior external articular artery and external circumflex. The popliteal artery (poplitea. Fig. 148) commences from the termination of the femoral at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and passes obliquely outwards through the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial artery. Plan of the Relations of the Popliteal Artery. Superficially. Semi-membranosus, Popliteal nerve, ^ Popliteal Tein, POPLITEAL ARTERY. « Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Outer Side. Inner Side. Biceps, External condyle, G-astrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Semi-membranosus, Internal condyle. Gastrocnemius. Popliteal Artery Deeply. Femur, Ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Popliteal fascia. B B 2