INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES. 51 plates. The anterior face of this process is rough, and articulateg with the superior maxillary bone. Development.—By a single centre, which appears in the angle of union between the horizontal and perpendicular portion, at the same time as ossification in the vertebrae. Articulations.—With six bones: two of the cranium, sphenoid and ethmoid; and four of the face, superior maxillary, inferior tur- binated, vomer, and the palate bone of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To four: tensor palati, azygos uvulse, internal and external pterygoid. Inferior turbinated Bones.—The inferior turbinated or spongy bone, is a thin layer of light and porous bone, attached to the crista turbinalis inferior of the inner wall of the nares, and pro- jecting inwards towards the ^9- 34. septum narium. It is some- what triangular in form, one angle being directed upwards and the curved base down- wards; and slightly curled upon itself, so as to bear some resemblance to one valve of a bivalve shell, hence its desig- nation, concha inferior. The bone presents for examination two surfaces, internal and external; three borders, anterior, superior, and inferior; and three angles, anterior, posterior, and superior. The internal or convex surface looks inwards and upwards, and forms the inferior boundary of iJie middle meatus naris; it is marked by one or two longitudinal grooves or canals for branches of the nasal nerves and spheno-palatine artery. The external or concave surface looks downwards and outwards, and constitutes the roof of the inferior meatus. The anterior border looks upwards and forwards, is thin and somewhat concave, and articulates with the crista turbinalis of the superior maxillary and with the lachrymal bone. The superior border, long and uneven, articulates with the crista turbinalis of the palate bone, and with the superior maxillary. The inferior border is convex, rounded and free, and thicker than the rest of the bone. The anterior angle, attached to the superior maxillary bone, ad- * The inferior turbinated bone of the right side. 1,1. Its internal or con- vex surface. 2, 2,3. A canal for the nasaUs posterior externa artery, dividing into two deep grooves. The numeral 3 also denotes the anterior border of the bone. 4. Posterior border. 5, 5. Inferior bgrder. 6. Anterior angle. 7. Posterior angle. 8. Superior angle. 9. Processus lachrymaUs. 10. Pro- cessus ethmoidalis. 11. A large irregular process, appertaining to the eth- moidal process, and articulating with the ethmoid bone. 12. An opening into the antrum. e 2'