544 OPENIJJGS OF THE TYMPANUM. spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and passes through an opening in the fissura Grlaseri, to be inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the root of the processus gracilis. This is regarded as a ligament (anterior ligament of the malleus) by some anatomists. The Laxator tympani minor (posterior ligament of the malleus) arises from the upper margin of the meatus, and is inserted into the handle and processus brevis of the malleus. This is regarded as a ligament by some anatomists. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and escapes from its summit to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. Foramina.—The openings in the tympanum are ten in number, five large andj^z^e small; they are—- The opening of the meatus auditorius has been already described. The Fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli) is a reniform opening, situated at the bottom of a small oval fossa (pelvis ovalis), in the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum, directly opposite the meatus. The long diameter of the fenestra is directed horizontally, audits convex borders upwards. It is the opening of communica- tion between the tympanum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membrane of both cavities. The Fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochlese) is somewhat triangular in form, and situated in the inner wall of the tympanum, below and rather posteriorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is sepa- rated by a bony elevation, called the promontory. It serves to esta- blish a communication between the tympanum and cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane (m. tympani secun- daria) as well as by the lining of both cavities. The Mastoid cells are numerous, and occupy the whole of the in- terior of the mastoid process and part of the petrous bone. They communicate by a large irregular opening with the upper and poste- rior circumference of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube is a short canal about an inch and three quarters in length, extending obliquely between the pharynx and the anterior circumference of the tympanum. In structure it is partly fibro-cartilaginous and partly osseous, is broad and expanded at its pharyngeal extremity, and narrow and compressed at the tympanum. The Smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The opening by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum Large Openings. Small Openings. Meatus auditorius, Fenestra ovalis, Fenestra rotunda. Mastoid cells. Eustachian tube. Entrance of the chorda tympani, Exit of the chorda tympani, For the laxator tympani. For the tensor tympani, For the stapedius.