150 METACARPO-PHALANaEAL ARTICULATIONS. The palmar ligaments are thin fasciculi arranged upon the same plan on the palmar surface. The synovial membrane is a continuation of the great synovial membrane of the two rows of carpal bones. The capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true capsular ligaments of the skeleton; the other two being the shoulder joint and hip joint. The articulation has a proper synovial membrane. The metacarpal hones of the four fingers are firmly connected at their bases by means of dorsal and palmar ligaments, which extend transversely from one bone to the other, and by interosseous liga- ments which pass between their contiguous surfaces. Their lateral articular facets are lined by a reflection of the great synovial mem- brane of the two rows of carpal bones. A ctions. —The movements of the metacarpal on the carpal bones are restricted to a slight degree of sliding motion, with the excep- tion of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. In the latter articulation, the movements are flexion, extemion, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 10. —Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulation.—The metacarpo-pha- langeal articulation is a ginglymoid joint: its ligaments are four in number, — Anterior, Two lateral, Transverse. The anterior ligaments, thick and fibro-cartilaginous, form part of the articulating surface of the joints. They are grooved exter- nally for the lodgment of the flexor tendons, and by their internal aspect form part of the articular surface for the head of the meta- carpal bone. At each side they are continuous with the lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, holding the bones together at each side. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band passing across the heads of the metacarpal bones of the four fingers, and connected with the anterior ligaments. The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers takes the place of a posterior ligament. A ctions. —^This articulation admits of movement in four different directions, viz., flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction, the two latter being limited to a small extent. It is also capable of cir- cumduction. 11. —Articulation of the Phalanges.—These articulations are ginglymoid joints : they are formed by three ligaments, y Anterior, Two lateral. The anterior ligament is firm and fibro-cartilaginous, and forms