THYMUS GLAND, 672 by cellular tissue only, and having no structural communication: they may therefore be " properly called, a right and left thymus gland." Between the second and third month of embryonic existence, the thymus is so small as to be only "just perceptible;" and continues gradually increasing with the growth of the foetus until the seventh. At the eighth month it is large; but, during the ninth, it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to enlarge until the expiration of the first year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually diminishes, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. The thymus is a conglomerate gland, being composed of lobules disposed in a spiral form around a central cavity. The lobules are held together by a firm cellular tissue ("reticulated"), and the entire gland is enclosed in a coarse fibro-cellular capsule. mg. 233.* The Lobules are very numerous, and vary in size from that of the head of a pin to a moderate-sized pea. Each lobule contains in its interior a small cavity, or secretory cell,'''' and several of these cells open into a small pouch" which is situated at their base, and leads to the central cavity, the ^'■reservoir of the thymus." * A section of the thymus gland at the eighth month, showing its anatomy. This figure, and the succeeding, were drawn from two of Sir Astley Cooper's beautiful preparations, with the kind permission of their possessor. The references were made by Sir Astley's own hand. 1. The cervical portions of the gland; the independence of the two lateral glands is weU marked. 2. Secretory cells seen on the cut surface of the section; these are observed in aU parts of the section. 3, 3. The pores or openings of the secretory cells and pouches; they are seen dispersed upon the whole internal surface of the great central cavity or reservoir. The continuity of the reservoir in the lower or thoracic portion of the gland, with the cervical portion, is seen in the figure.