456 OLFACTORY NERVE. 7th. 8th. 9th. ( Facial (portio dura). ( Auditory (portio mollis). iGlosso-pharyngeal. Pneumogastric (vagus, par vagum). Spinal accessory. Hypoglossal (lingual). Functionally or physiologically the cranial nerves admit of division into three groups, namely, nerves of special sense, nerves of motion, and compound nerves, that is, nerves which contain fibres both of sensation and motion. The nerves belonging to these groups are the following: Special sense Motion Compound 1st. Olfactory. 2nd. Optic. 7th. Auditory. 3rd. Motores oculorum. 4 th. Pathetici. 6th. Abducentes. 7th. Facial. 9th. Hypoglossal. 5th. Trifacial. 8th. Glosso-pharyngeal. ,, Pn eumogastric. ,, Spinal accessory. The fourth, facial and eighth nerves were considered by Sir Charles Bell to form a system apart from the rest, and to be allied in the functions of expression and respiration. In consonance with this view he termed them respiratory nerves, and he gave to that part of the medulla oblongata from which they arise the name of respiratory tract. First pair. Olfactory.—The olfactory nerve arises by three roots; an inner root from the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe close to the substantia perforata, a middle root from a papilla of grey matter (caruncula mamillaris), embedded in the anterior lobe, and an external root, which may be traced as a white streak along the fissure of Sylvius into the corpus striatum, where it is continuous with some of the fibres of the anterior commissure. The nervous cord formed by the union of the three roots is soft in texture, prismcid in shape, and embedded in a sulcus between two convolu- tions on the under surface of each anterior lobe of the brain, lying between the pia mater and the arachnoid. As it passes forward it increases in breadth and swells at its extremity into an oblong mass of grey and white substance, the bulbus olfactorius, which rests upon the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid bone. From the under surface of the bulbus olfactorius are given off the nerves which pass through the cribriform foramina, and supply the mucous membrane