661 FALLOPIAN TUBES. sacral plexus, and distributes branches to tlie uterus, vagina, bladder, and rectum. Of the branches to the uterus, a large fasciculus pro- ceeds upwards by the side of the organ towards its angle, where they communicate with branches of the spermatic plexus, and form another large ganglion, which he designates the spermatic ganglion, and which supplies the fundus uteri. Besides these, Dr. Lee describes vesical and vaginal ganglia, and anterior and posterior subperitoneal ganglia and plexuses, which communicate with the preceding, and constitute an extensive nervous network over the entire uterus. Dr. Lee concludes his observations by remarking :—" These dissec- tions prove that the human uterus possesses a great system of nerves, which enlarges with the coats, blood-vessels, and absorbents, during pregnancy, and which returns after parturition to its original con- dition before conception takes place. It is chiefly by the influence of these nerves that the uterus performs the varied functions of menstruation, conception, and parturition, and it is solely by their means that the whole fabric of the nervous system sympathises with the different morbid affections of the uterus. If these nerves of the uterus could not be demonstrated, its physiology and pathology would be completely inexplicable."* ' APPENBAaES OP THE UTERUS. The Appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral dupli- catures of peritoneum, called the broad ligaments. They are the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. The FALLOPIAN+ TUBES or oviducts, the uterine trumpets of the French writers, are situated in the upper border of the broad liga- ments, and are connected with the superior angles of the uterus. They are somewhat trumpet-shaped, being smaller at the uterine than at the free extremity, and narrower in the middle than at either end. Each tube is about four or five inches in length, and more or less flexuous in its course. The canal of the Fallopian tube is exceedingly minute ; its inner extremity opens by means of the ostium uterinum into the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus, and the opposite end into the cavity of the peritoneum. The free or expanded extremity of the Fallopian tube presents a double and sometimes a triple series of small processes or fringes, which sur- round the margin of the trumpet or funnel-shaped opening, the ostium abdominale. This fringe-like appendage to the end of the tube has gained for it the appellation of the fimbriated extremity; and the remarkable manner in which this circular fringe applies * Philosophical Transactions for 1842. t G-abriel FaUopius, a nobleman of Modena, was one of the founders of modern anatomy. He was Professor at Ferrara, then at Pisa, and afterwards succeeded Vesalius at Padua. His principal observations are collected in a work, " Observationes Anatomicse," which he published in 1561.