SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. 509 with tlie sympathetic filaments of the opposite side, and be distri- buted to the viscera. As regards the spinal nerves it receives as well as gives, the white fibres of the sympathetic being derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. CRANIAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Cranial Ganglia. Ophthalmic, or lenticular ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, Otic, or Arnold's ganglion, Submaxillary ganglion. The Ophthalmic ganglion {ciliary; lenticular) is a small qua- drangular and flattened ganglion situated within the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle; it is in close contact with the optic nerve and generally with the ophthalmic artery; and is surrounded by adipose tissue, which renders its dissection some- what difi&cult. It is of a reddish-grey colour, like other sympathetic ganglia. Its branches of distribution are the short ciliary nerves, which arise from its anterior angles in two groups : the upper group con- sisting of about- four filaments; the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a waving course, and divide into filaments which pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, to sup- ply the tunics of the eyeball. A small filament is said, by Tiede- mann, to accompany the arteria centralis retinge into the centre of the globe of the eye. Its branches of communication are three, one, the long root, which proceeds from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve and joins its superior angle; a short and thick branch, the short root, from the inferior division of the third nerve to its inferior angle; and a slender filament, the sympathetic root, from the carotid plexus. Occasionally the ophthalmic ganglion receives also a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion; and sometimes from the abducens nerve. The Spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's), the largest of the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic, is situated in the spheno-maxil- lary fossa, a little below the superior maxillary nerve. It is of small size, of a reddish-grey colour, and triangular in shape; and is placed upon the posterior part of the spheno-palatine nerves which it only partially involves. Its branches are divisible into four groups; ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. The ascending branches are three or four small filaments which are distributed to the periosteum of the orbit. One of these branches sometimes joins the ophthalmic ganglion : one the sixth nerve; and two the optic nerve.