TIBIA. 104 subcutaneous and superficial; external, Fig. 56.* wliicli is concave and marked by a sharp ridge, for the insertion of the interosseous membrane; and 2^ostenor, grooved, for the attachment of muscles. Near the upper extremity of the posterior surface is an oblique ridge, the popliteal line, for the attachment of the fascia of the popliteus muscle; and immediately below the oblique line, the nutritious canal, which is directed downwards. The inferior extremity of the bone is somewhat quadrilateral, and prolonged on its inner side into a large process, the in- ternal malleolus. Behind the internal malleolus, is a broad and shallow groove, for lodging the tendons of the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus digitorum; and farther outwards another groove, for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. On the outer side the surface is concave and triangular, rough above for the attachment of the interosseous ligament; and smooth below, to articulate with the fibula. Upon the extremity of the bone is a triangular smooth surface, for articulating with the astragalus. Development. —'By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the tibia, imme- diately after the femur; the centre for the head of the bone appears soon after birth, and that for the lower extremity during the second year; the latter is the first to join the diaphysis. The bone is not complete until nearly the 25th year. Two occasional centres are sometimes found in the tibia, one for the tubercle, the other for the internal malleolus. Articulations.—^With three bones; femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To ten; by the internal tuberosity, to the sartorius, gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus; by the external tuberosity, tibialis anticus and extensor longus digi- * The tibia and fibula of the right leg, articulated and seen from the front. 1. The shaft of the tibia. 2. The inner tuberosity. 3. The outer tuberosity. 4. The spinous process. 5. The tubercle. 6. The internal or subcutaneous surface of the shaft. 7. The lower extremity of the tibia. 8. The internal malleolus. 9. The shaft of the fibula. 10. Its upper extremity. 11. Its lower extremity, the external malleolus. The sharp border between 1 and 6 is the crest of the tibia.