65 NASAL FOSSiE, There are nine openings communicating with the orbit: the ojotic, for the admission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery; the sphenoidal fissure, for the transmission of the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein; the spheno-maxillary fissure, for the passage of the superior maxillary nerve and infraorbital artery to the opening of entrance of the infraorhital canal; temporo- malar foramina, two or three small openings in the orbital process of the malar bone, for the passage of filaments of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the suture between the os planum and frontal bone, the former transmitting the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal artery, the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein; the opening of the nasal duct; and the supraorbital notch or foramen, for the supraorbital nerve and artery. NASAL FOSS^. The nasal foss^ are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They are bounded above by the nasal bones, ethmoid, and sphenoid; below by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; externally by the superior maxillary, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, superior and middle turbinated bones of the ethmoid, palate, and internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid; and the two fossae are sepa- rated by the vomer and perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid. These may be more clearly expressed in a tabular form :— Nasal bones. Ethmoid. Sphenoid. o (6 M CO rt- S O O g5 • E= 13 'o Nasal fossa. Nasal fossa. 0) a U o > 4) §2 02 'a Palate processes of superior maxillary. Palate processes of palate bone. Each nasal fossa is divided into three irregular longitudinal pas- sages, or meatus, by three processes of bone, which project from its outer wall, the superior, middle, and inferior turbinated bone; the superior and middle turbinated bone being processes of the F