SPHENOID BONE. 39 pterygo-palatine artery ; and traversing the root of the pterygoid process at its union with the body of the bone, is the pterygoid or Vidian canal, which gives passage to the Vidian nerve and artery. The posterior surface is flat and rough, and articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. In the adult this union is usually completed by bone ; from which circumstance the sphenoid, in conjunction with the occipital, is described by Soemmering and Meckel as a single bone, under the name of spheno-occipital. The posterior surface is continuous on each side with the spinous process, and at the angle of union is the termination of the Vidian canal. The lesser wings (processes of Ingrassias) are thin and triangular, the base being attached to the upper and anterior part of the body of ihe sphenoid, and the apex, prolonged outwards, and terminating in an acute point. The anterior border is irregularly serrated, the posterior being free and rounded, and received into the fissure of Sylvius of the cerebrum. The inner extremity of this border is the anterior clinoid process, which is supported by a short pillar of bone, giving attachment to a part of the common tendon of the muscles of the orbit. The lesser wing forms the posterior part of the roof of the orbit, and its base is traversed by the optic foramen. The greater wings present three surfaces ; a superior or cerebral, which forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull ; an anterior surface, which assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit ; and an external surface, divided into two parts by the pterygoid ridge. The superior part of the external surface enters into tijie formation of the temporal fossa, and the inferior portion forms "part of the zygomatic fossa. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the two, gives attachment to the upper origin of the pterygoideus externus muscle. The spinous processes project backwards at each side from the base of the greater wings of the sphenoid, and are received into the angular intervals between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bones. Piercing the base of each process is a large oval opening, the foramen ovale; nearer its apex a smaller opening, the foramen spinosum; and extending downwards from the apex, a short spine, which gives attachment to the internal lateral liga- ment of the lower jaw and to the laxator tympani muscle. The external border of the spinous process is rough, to articulate with the lower border of the squamous portion of the temporal bone; the internal border forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and is somewhat grooved for the reception of the Eustachian tube. The pterygoid processes descend perpendicularly from the base of the greater wings, and form in the articulated skull the lateral boundary of the posterior nares. Each process consists of an ex- ternal and internal plate, and an anterior surface. The external plate is broad and thin, giving attachment, by its external surface, to the external pterygoid muscle, and by its internal surface to the