ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 500 when of large size constitutes its cutaneous brancli. As already stated, the existence of the accessory obturator nerve is uncertain. The Anterior crural, or Femoral nerve, is the largest of the divisions of the lumbar plexus; it is formed by the union of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the thigh, leg, and foot, to all the muscles of the front of the thigh (excepting one), to the iliacus, pectineus, femoral artery, and knee-joint. Emerging from beneath the psoas, the nerve passes downwards in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, where it spreads out and divides into numerous branches. At Poupart's ligament it is separated from the femoral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle, which at this point is scarcely more than half an inch in diameter, and by the iliac fascia, beneath which it lies. Brandies.-—^Within the pelvis, the anterior crural nerve gives off three or four twigs to the iliacus muscle, and a branch to the femo- ral artery. The latter divides into filaments which entwine about the artery, and follow its course downwards in the thigh. Below Poupart's ligament the crural nerve becomes flattened out, and divides into numerous branches, which may be arranged into two principal groups, superficial and deep. The separate branches of these groups are as follow :— Long or Internal saphenous, The Middle cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia lata at about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two branches, which pass down the inner and front part of the thigh, and are dis- tributed to the integument as low as the knee-joint. At its upper part the external branch communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve; and below, the internal branch communi- cates with the internal cutaneous. One or both of these branches sometimes pierce the sartorius muscle. The Internal cutaneous nerve passes inwards in front of the sheath of the femoral artery, and divides into an anterior and an inner branch. Previously to its division it gives off three cutaneous filaments, which pierce the fascia near the internal saphenous vein, and, following the course of that vessel, are distributed to the in- tegument of the inner side of the thigh as low down as the knee. The uppermost of these filaments passes through the saphenous opening, the middle becomes subcutaneous at about the middle of the thigh, and the lowest pierces the fascia at its lower third. The anterior branch passes down the inner side of the thigh, and Superficial. Middle cutaneous, Internal cutaneous, Beep. Muscular, Articular.