873 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The anterior tibial artery {tibialis antica), passes forwards be- tween the two beads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and tbrougb tbe opening in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. It then runs down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle-joint, where it becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In its course it rests upon the interosseous membrane (to which it is connected by a little tendinous arch which is thrown across it), the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In its upper third it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, lower down between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicisj and just before it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Its immediate relations are the vense comites and the anterior tibial nerve ; the latter lies at first to its outer side, at about the middle of the leg it becomes placed superficially to the artery, and at the ankle it is again at its outer side^ ' Plan of the Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artery, Front. Deep fascia, Tibialis anticus, ' Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius pollicis. Anterior tibial nerve. Inner Side, 'Tibialis anticus, Tendon of the extensor pro- prius pollicis. Anterior Tibial Artery. Outer Side. Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius poUicis, Tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia (lower fourth), Ankle-joiut. Branches.—The branches of the Anterior Tibial Artery are the— Eecurrent, External malleolar, Muscular, Internal malleolar. The Recurrent hrancJi (tibialis recurrens) passes upwards be- neath the origin of the tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee-joint, upon which it is distributed, anastomosing with the articular arteries. The Muscular branches are numerous, they supply the muscles of the anterior tibial region. The Malleolar arteries (malleolares anteriores) are distributed to the ankle-joint; the external, passing beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, inosculates with