LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 536 The edges of tlie eyelids are furnislied with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and down- wards from the lower, so that they do not interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the open- ing of the eyes. These are the eye-lashes {cilia) important organs of defence to the sensitive surface of so delicate a structure as the eye. Their follicles are supplied with sebiparous glands like those of other hairs. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. The duplicatures formed between the globe of the eye and the lids are called the superior and inferior palpebral sinuses, the former being deeper than the latter. Where it covers the cornea, the conjunctiva is very thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it. Upon the sclerotica it is thicker and less adherent, but upon the inner surface of the lids is very closely connected, and exceedingly vascular. It is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane, and sym- pathizes in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland ; along the edges of the lids it is con- tinuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye may be followed through the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The Caruncula lachrymalis is the small reddish body which oc- cupies the lacus lachrymalis at the inner canthus of the eye. In health it presents a bright pink tint; in sickness it loses its colour, and becomes pale. It consists of an assemblage of follicles similar to the Meibomian glands, embedded in a fibre-cartilaginous tissue, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantly forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is covered with minute hairs, which are sometimes so long as to be visible to the naked eye. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncula is a slight dupli- cature of the conjunctiva, called plica semilunaris, which contains a minute plate of cartilage, and is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and Nerves.—The palpebrse are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and externally from the facial and transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and of the facial. LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland with its excretory ducts ; the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal canals ; the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. The Lachrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and consists of two portions, orbital and palpebral. The