FACIAL NERVE. 470 then upon that nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and takes its course forwards to the hiatus Fallopii, in the anterior wall of the petrous bone, where it forms a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangliformis, ganglion geniculare), and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tympanum, and descends in the inner wall of that cavity to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerging at the stylo- mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, cross- ing the external carotid artery, to the ramus of the lower jaw, where it divides into two trunks, temporo-facial and cervico-facial. These trunks divide into numerous branches, which escape from the an- terior border of the parotid gland, and are distributed in a radiated manner over the side of the face, from the temple to below the lower jaw; on the masseter muscle the branches communicate and form loops, and the whole arrangement over the side of the face has been termed %:>es anserinus. In the meatus auditorius, the facial nerve communicates with the auditory nerve by one or two filaments; the intumescentia gangli- formis receives the nervus petrosus superficialis major and minor, and sends a twig back to the auditory nerve; behind the tympanum the nerve receives one or two twigs from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen it re- ceives a twig from the glosso-pharyngeal, and in the parotid gland one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal nerve. Besides these, the facial nerve has numerous peripheral communications, with the branches of the fifth nerve on the face, with the cervical nerves in the parotid gland and on the neck, and with the sympa- thetic. The numerous communications of the faisial nerve have ob- tained for it the designation of nervus sympatheticus minor. The Branches of the facial nerve are— The Tympanic branch is a small filament given off by the facial while in the petrous bone, and distributed to the stapedius muscle. The Chorda tympani quits the facial immediately above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends by a distinct canal to the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it enters that cavity through an opening situated between the base of the pyramid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested by mucous membrane. It then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to the anterior Within the aqueductus Fallopii On the face After emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen, Tympanic, Chorda tympani. Posterior auricular, Stylo-hyoid, Digastric. Temporo-facial, Cervico-facial.