OVARIES—CORPUS LUTEUM. 662 itself to the surface of the ovary during sexual excitement, the ad- ditional title of morsus diaboli. A short ligamentous cord pro- ceeds from the fimbriated extremity to be attached to the distal end of the ovary, and serves to guide the tube in its seizure of that organ. The Fallopian tube is composed of three tunics, an external and loose investment derived from the peritoneum; a middle or mus- cular coat, consisting of circular (internal) and longitudinal (ex- ternal) fibres, continuous with those of the uterus ; and an internal or lining mucous membrane, which is continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the uterus, and at the opposite extremity with the peritoneum. In the minute canal of the tube the mucous -ynembrane is thrown into longitudinal folds or rugge, which indicate the adaptation of the tube for dilatation. The Ovaries (testes muliebres) are two oblong flattened and oval bodies, of a whitish colour and uneven surface, situated in the posterior layer of peritoneum of the broad ligaments. They are connected to the upper angles of the uterus at each side by means of a rounded cord, consisting of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus, the ligament of the ovary. By the opposite extremity they are connected by another and a shorter liga- ment to the fimbriated aperture of the Fallopian tube. In structure the ovary is composed of a cellulo-fibrous parenchyma or stroma, traversed by blood-vessels, and enclosed in a capsule con- sisting of three layers ; a vascular layer, which is situated most internally, and sends processes inwards to the interior of the organ; a middle or fibrous layer (tunica albuginea) of considerable density ; and an external investment of peritoneum. In the cells of the stroma of the ovary the small vesicles or ovisacs of the future ova, the Graafian vesicles are developed. There are usually about fifteen fully formed Graafian vesicles in each ovary; and Dr. Martin Barry has shown that countless numbers of microscopic ovisacs exist in the parenchyma of the organ, but that very few are perfected so as to produce ova. After conception, a yellow spot, the corpus luteum, is found in one or both ovaries. The corpus luteum is a globular mass of yellow, spongy tissue, traversed by white cellular bands, and con- taining in its centre a small cavity, more or less obliterated, which was originally occupied by the ovum. The interior of the cavity is lined by a puckered membrane, the remains of the ovisac. In recent corpora lutea, the opening by which the ovum escaped from the ovisac through the capsule of the ovary is distinctly visible ; when closed, a small cicatrix may be seen on the surface of the ovary in the situation of the openings A similar appearance to the preceding, but of smaller size, and without a central cavity, is some- times met with in the ovaries of the virgin ; this is a false corpus luteum. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the ovaries are branches of