COMPOUND GLANDS—MUCIPAROUS GLANDS. 617 the size of a millet seed, dispersed through the large intestine, but most abundant in the caecum and appendix cseci. Examined by the naked eye, each glandular prominence has the appearance of a small circular opening, bordered by an elevated rim. With the mi- croscope" the elevated rim and sloping sides of the opening are seen to be composed of a reticular framework and alveoli similar to the rest of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, excepting that the alveoli are more angular and deeper and the septa thinner. The same alveolar structure is continued to the bottom of the cavity of the gland, where there is the appearance of the apertures of simple follicles. The Compound glands are small lobulated conglomerate masses, provided with ramified ducts, which open on the surface of the mucous membrane by means of an excretory duct. They are found in the submucous cellular tissue of the pharynx, where they are termed "pharyngeal glands; in the cellular coat of the oesophagus, particularly at its lower part, oesophageal glands; and in the cellu- lar coat of the duodenum, duodenal, or Brmmer's glands. Two of the pharyngeal glands are found near the aperture of the Eusta- chian tube. ; The duodenal or Brunner's glands are very numerous, and were compared by Von Brunn to a second pancreas; in structure they resemble the small glands found beneath the mucous membrane of the lips and mouth. , Besides the above, which are the compound glands of the alimentary canal, there are others more simple in structure and more superfi- cial in position, which have hitherto escaped observation, and have re- mained undescribed. These glands resemble in structure the sebipa- rous glands of the skin, and are, I believe, the true muciparous glands. The Muciparous glands are found both in the small and large intestine. In the large intestine (fig, 211) they occupy the alveoli, and constitute the floor of those cavities. They are white, semi- transparent, obscurely lobulated, and provided with an excretory aperture. Commonly, each alveolus has its separate gland ; but oc- casionally, and especially where the alveolus is longer than usual, there may be two glands and two excretory apertures. The gland fills the alveolus, rising almost to the level of its brim, and thereby rendering the cavity of the alveolus shallow; the excretory aper- ture is surrounded by a protuberant lip. The Muciparous glands of the small intestine seem to exist chiefly in the lamellated mucous membrane, and especially on the valvulse conniventes, where they appear to take the place of simple follicles. They occur in patches as large as a lentil, but perfectly flat and identical in structure with the mucous membrane of the large intestine, consisting of a reticular framework and alveoli. The septa, somewhat thicker than those of the large intestine, measure about of an inch in breadth, and contain from two to four rows of minute capillaries, which form a plexus with close