124 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBEAL COLUMN. its central from its lateral portions. By its anterior or visceral surface it is in relation in the neck, with the longus colli muscles, pharynx and oesophagus; in the thoracic region, with the aorta, venae azygos, and thoracic duct; and in the lumbar region, with the aorta, right renal artery, right lumbar arteries, arteria sacra media, vena cava inferior, left lumbar veins, receptaculum chyli, commencement of the thoracic duct, and tendons of the lesser muscle of the dia- phragm with the fibres of which the liga- mentous fibres interlace. The Posterior common ligament (fascia longitudinalis posterior) lies on the pos- terior surface of the bodies of the verte- brae, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the inter- vertebral substance, to which it is closely adherent; narrow and thick over the bodies of the vertebrse, from which it is separated by the veins of the base of each vertebra ; and composed like the anterior ligament of shorter and longer fibres, arranged in a similar manner. It is broader above than below, the reverse of the anterior common ligament. The posterior common ligament is in relation by its anterior sur- face with the intervertebral substance, bodies of the vertebrse, and vense basium vertebrarum; and by its posterior surface with the dura mater of the spinal cord, some loose cellular tissue and nume- rous small veins being interposed. The Intervertebral substance (ligamentum intervertebrale) is a lenticular disc of fibrous cartilage, interposed between each of the vertebrse from the axis to the sacrum, and retaining them firmly in connexion with each other. It differs in thickness in different parts of the column, and varies in depth at different points of its extent; thus, it is thickest in the lumbar region, deepest in front in the cer- vical and lumbar regions, and behind in the dorsal region; and con- tributes to the formation of the natural curves of the vertebral column. The aggregate length of tl;e intervertebral substance has been estimated at one-fourth of that of the vertebral column, ex- cluding the sacrum and coccyx. * A posterior view of the bodies of three dorsal vertebrse, connected by their intervertebral substance 1, 1. The laminae (2) have been sawn through near the bodies of the vertebrse, and the arches and processes removed, in order to show (3) the posterior common ligament. A part of one of the openings in the posterior surface of the vertebra, for the transmission of the vena basis vertebrse, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament.