BASE OP THE BRAIN. 443 Vieussens, described with the fourth ventricle; both these vela proceed from the same point in the roof of that ventricle, and se- parate from each other at an angle, the one passing obliquely for- wards, the other obliquely backwards. When a vertical incision is made into the cerebellum, that appear- ance is seen which has been denominated arbor vitce cerebelli ; the white substance in the centre of such a section resembles the trunk of a tree, from which branches are given off, and from the branches branchlets and leaves, the two latter being coated by a moderately thick and uniform layer of grey substance. If the incision be made somewhat nearer the commissure than to the lateral border of the organ, a yellowish grey dentated line, enclosing medullary substance traversed by the openings of numerous vessels, will be seen in the centre of the white substance. This is the ganglion of the cerebellum, the corpus rhomboideum or dentatum, from which the peduncles of the cerebellum proceed. The grey line is dense and horny in structure, and is the cut edge of a thin capsule, open towards the medulla oblongata. The cerebellum is associated with the rest of the encephalon by means of three pairs of rounded cords or peduncles, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior peduncles, or processus e cerebello ad testes, proceed from the cerebellum forwards and upwards to the testes, in which they are lost. They form the anterior part of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and give attachment by their inner borders to the valve of Vieussens, which is stretched between them. At their junction with the testes they are crossed by the fourth pair of nerves. The middle peduncles, or crura cerebelli ad pontem, the largest of the three, issue from the cerebellum through the anterior extremity of the sulcus horizontalis, and are lost in the pons Varolii. The inferior peduncles, or crura ad' medidlam ob- longatam, are the corpora restiformia which descend to the posterior part of the medulla oblongata, and form the inferior portion of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle. BASE OP THE BRAIN. The student should now prepare to study the base of the brain : for this purpose the organ should be turned upon its incised surface; and if the dissection have hitherto been conducted with care, he will find the base uninjured. The arachnoid membrane, some parts of the pia mater, and the circle of Willis, must be carefully cleared away, in order to expose all the parts to be examined. These he will find arranged in the following order from before backwards: Longitudinal fissure. Commencement of the transverse fissure. Olfactory nerves. Optic commissure, Fissure of Sylvius, Tuber cinereum, Substantia perforata; Infundibulum ;