375 DOKSALIS PEDIS ARTEEY. Plan of the Relations of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In Front. Integument, Deep fascia, Inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. Inner Side. Tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. Dorsalis Pedis Artery. Outer Side. Tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, Border of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Behind. Bones of the tarsus, with their ligaments. Branches.—The branches of this artery are the— Tarsea, Dorsalis hallucis,—collateral digital. Metatarsea,—interossese. Magna pollicis. The Tarsea (externa) arches transversely across the tarsus, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, and supplies the arti- culations of the tarsal bones and the outer side of the foot: it anas- tonjioses with the external malleolar, peroneal arteries and external plantar. The Metatarsea forms an arch (arcus tarseus vel dorsalis pedis) across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot; anastomosing with the tarsea and external plantar artery. From its convex side the metatarsea gives off three branches, the interossece, which pass forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles, and divide into branches (dorsal collateral) for the supply of the sides of the toes between which they are placed. At their commencement these interosseous branches receive the pos- terior perforating arteries from the plantar arch, and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones are joined by the anterior perforating branches from the digital arteries. The interosseous artery of the fourth interosseous space in addition to the two dorsal collateral branches into which it bifurcates sends a third to the outer side of the little toe. The Dorsalis hallucis (interossea dorsalis prima) inins forward upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and at the base of the first phalanx divides into two branches, one of which passes in- wards beneath the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe, while the other bifurcates into two collateral branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of the great and second toe. The Arteria magna pollicis arises from the dorsalis pedis, while in the metatarsal space and just before its inosculation with the external plantar artery. It sends a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe on its plantar aspect, and bifurcates to supply the collateral digital branches of the great and second toe.