531 AQUEOUS HUMOUR.—VITREOUS HUMOUR. an alkaline reaction, and a specific gravity very little greater than that of distilled water. According to Petit, it scarcely exceeds four or five grains in weight. The anterior chamber is the space intervening between the cornea in front, and the iris and pupil behind. The j^osterior chamber is the narrow space less than half a line in depth,* bounded by the posterior surface of the iris and pupil in front, and by the ciliary processes, zonula ciliaris, and lens behind. The two chambers are lined by a thin layer, the secreting membrane of the aqueous humour. Mg. 181.t The Vitreous humour forms, the principal bulk of the globe of the eye. It is an albuminous and highly transparent fluid, enclosed in a delicate membrane, the hyaloid. From the inner surface of this membrane, numerous thin lamellae are directed inwards, and form compartments in which the fluid is contained. According to Hann- over, these lamella have a radiated arrangement, like those on the transverse section of an orange, and are about 180 in number. In the centre of the vitreous humour is a tubular canal, through which a minute artery is conducted from the arteria centralis retinas to * Winslow and Lieutaud thought the iris to be in contact with the lens; it frequently adheres to the capsule of the latter in iritis. The depth of the posterior chamber is greater in old than in young persons. t Posterior segment of a transverse section of the globe of the eye, seen from within. 1. Divided edge of the three tunics. The membrane covering the VFhole internal surface is the retina. 2. The entrance of the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae piercing its centre. 3, 3. Kamilications of the arteria centraHs. 4. Foramen of Soemmering, in the centre of the axis of the eye; the shade from the sides of the section obscures the limbus luteus which surrounds it. 5. A fold of the retina, which generally obscures tho foramen of Soemmering after the eye has been opened. M M 2