STRUCTUBAL ANATOMY OP THE LIVER. 629 The Hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with those vessels through the portal canals. Its branches are the vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The vaginal branches, like those of the portal vein and hepatic duct, form a vaginal plexus, which exists throughout the whole extent of the portal canals, with the exception of that side of the smaller canals which corresponds with the artery. The interlobular branches, arising from the vaginal plexus and from the parietal side of the artery (in the smaller canals), ramify through the interlobu- lar fissures, and are principally distributed to the coats of the inter- lobular ducts. '' From the superficial interlobular fissures small arteries emerge, and ramify in the proper capsule, on the convex and concave sur- face of the liver, and in the ligaments. These are the capsular arteries.'''' Where the capsule is well developed, " these vessels cover the surfaces of the liver with a beautiful plexus," and anas- tomose with branches of the phrenic, internal mammary, and supra- renal arteries," and with the epigastric. The Lobular branches, extremely minute and few in number, are the nutrient vessels of the lobules, and terminate in the lobular venous plexus. 1 All the venous blood resulting from the distribution of the hepatic artery, even that from the vasa vasorum of the hepatic veins, is re- turned into the portal vein. The Hepatic veins commence in the substance of each lobule by minute venules, which receive the blood from the lobular venous plexus, and converge to form the intralobular vein. The intra- lobular vein passes through the central axis of the lobule, and through the middle of its base, to terminate in a sublobular vein ; and the union of the sublobular veins constitutes the hepatic trunks, which open into the inferior vena cava. The hepatic venous system consists, therefore, of three sets of vessels ; intralobular veins, sublobular veins, and hepatic trunks. The Sublobular veins are contained in canals formed solely by the bases of the lobules, with which, from the absence of Grlisson's capsule, they are in immediate contact. Their coats are thin and transparent; and, if they be laid open by a longitudinal incision, the bases of the lobules will be distinctly seen, separated by inter- lobular fissures, and perforated through the centre by the opening of the intralobular vein. The Hepatic trunks are formed by the union of the sublobular veins ; they are contained in canals (hepatic-venous) similar in structure to the portal canals, and lined by a prolongation of the proper capsule. They proceed from before backwards, and termi- nate, by two large openings (corresponding with the right and left lobe of the liver) and several smaller apertures, in the inferior vena cava. Summary.—The liver has been shown to be composed of lobules;