PELVIS,—FEMUR. 100 The diameters of the inlet or brim are three : 1. Antero-posterior, sacro-pubic or conjugate; 2. transverse; and 3. oblique. The antero-posterior extends from the symphysis pubis to the middle of the promontory of the sacrum, and measures four inches. The transverse extends from the middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite, and measures five inches. The oblique extends from the sacro-iliac symphysis on one side to the margin of the brim corresponding with the acetabulum on the opposite, and also measures five inches. The diameters of the outlet are two, antero-posterior and trans- verse. The antero-posterior diameter extends from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the apex of the coccyx; the transverse, from the posterior part of one tuberosity to the same point on the opposite side; they both measure four inches. The cavity of the pelvis measures in depth four inches and a half, posteriorly; three inches and a half in the middle; and one and a half at the symphysis pubis. Femur.—The femui', the longest bone of the skeleton, is situated obliquely in the upper part of the lower limb, articulating by means of its head with the acetabulum, and inclining inwards as it descends, until it almost meets its fellow of the opposite side at the knee. In the female this obliquity is greater than in the male, in consequence of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur is divisible into a shaft, a superior, and an inferior extremity. At the superior extremity is a rounded head directed upwards and inwards, and marked just below its centre by an oval depression for the ligamentum teres. The head is supported by a neclc, which varies in length and obliquity according to sex and period of life, beiag long and oblique in the adult male, shorter and more horizontal in the female and in old age. Externally to the neck is a large process, the trochanter major, which presents on its anterior surface an oval facet, for the attachment of the tendon of the gluteus minimus muscle; and above, a double facet for the insertion of the gluteus medius. On its posterior side is a vertical ridge, the linea quadrati, for the attachment of the quadratus femoris muscle. Upon the inner side of the trochanter major is a deep pit, the trochanteric or dir/ital fossa, in which are inserted the tendons of the pyriformis, gemellus superior and inferior, and obturator externus and internus muscles. Passing downwards from the trochanter major in front of the bone is an oblique ridge, which forms the inferior boundary of the neck, the anterior intertrochanteric line; and behind, another oblique ridge, the j^osterior intertrochanteric line, which terminates in a rounded tubercle on the posterior and inner side of the bone, the trochanter minor. The shaft of the femur is convex and rounded in front, and covered with muscles; and somewhat concave and raised into a rough and prominent ridge behind, the linea aspera. The linea aspera near the upper extremity of the bone divides into three branches. The