116 MOVEMENTS OF JOINTS. S}Tiartlirosis. - ' Sutura . Harmonia . Schindylesis G-ompliosis . Examples. bones of the skull, superior maxillary bones, vomer with rostrum, teeth "svith alveoli. Amphi-artkrosis . Bodies of the vertebrae. Symphyses. ( Arthrodia .... carpal and tarsal bones. Diarthrosis. < Gringlymus .... elbov, Tvrist, knee, ankle. ( Enarthrosis .... Mp, Moulder. The motions permitted in joints may be referred to four heads, viz. Gliding, Angular movement, Circumduction, and Rotation, 1. Gliding is the simple movement of one articular surface upon another, and exists to a greater or less extent in all the joints. In the least movable joints, as ia the carpus and tarsus, this is the only motion which is permitted. 2. Angular movement may be performed in four different direc- tions, either forwards and backwards, as in flexion and extension; or inwards and outwards, constituting adduction and abduction. Flexion and extension are illustrated in the ginglymoid joint, and er.ist in a large proportion of the joints of the body. Adduction and abduction conjoined with flexion and extension, are met with com- plete only in the most movable joints, as the shoulder, hip, and thumb. In the wrist and ankle adduction and abduction are only partial. 3, Circumduction is most strikingly exhibited in the shoulder and hip joints; it consists in the slight degree of motion which takes place between the head of a bone and its articular cavity, while the extremity of the limb is made to describe a large circle upon a plane surface. It is also seen, but in a less degree, in the carpo- metacarpal articulation of the thumb, metacarpo-phalangeal arti- culations of the fingers and toes, and in the elbow when that joint is flexed and the end of the humerus fixed, 4, Rotation is the movement of a bone upon its own axis, and is illustrated in the hip and shoulder, or better, in the rotation of the cup of the radius against the eminentia capitata of the humerus. Rotation is also observed in the movements of the atlas upon the axis, where the odontoid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns. The structures entering into the composition of a joint are, bone, cartilage, fibrous tissue, adipose tissue, and synovial membrane. Cartilage forms a thin coating to the articular extremities of bones, sometimes presenting a smooth surface which moves on a correspond- ing smooth surface of the articulating bone; sometimes forming a plate smooth on both surfaces and interposed between the cartilaginous ends of two bones, interarticidar; and sometimes acting as the connecting medium between bones without any free surface, inter- osseous. Fibrous tissue enters into the construction of joints under