tERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS.—SPLENIUS. 209 branous expansion composed of longitudinal and transverse fibres, and extending from the sacrum to tlie upper part of the dorsal region. It is thicker below than above, and is attached on the middle line to the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, inferiorly to the spinous processes of the sacrum and aponeurosis of the erector spinse, and externally to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, and angles of the ribs. In its passage upwards it is blended with the tendon of the serratus posticus inferior, and at the upper part of the dorsal region is either connected with the lower border of the serratus posticus superior, or is continued upwards beneath it to become lost in the fascia of the cervical muscles. The vertebral aponeurosis forms the posterior wall of a triangular sheath, which contains the erector spinas and deep muscles of the back; the other boundaries of the sheath being the spinous processes of the vertebral column internally, and the sacrum, lumbar fascia, transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae, and ribs, in front. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to distinct insertions. It arises, from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchse, from the spinous process of the last cervical, and spinous processes and in- terspinou's ligaments of the six upper dorsal vertebrae; it divides as it ascends the neck into the splenius capitis and splenius colli. The splenius capitis (cervico-mastoideus) is inserted into th-e rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and into the posterior border of the mastoid process. The splenius colli (dorso-trachelius) is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno- mastoideus, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboideus minor and major, and serratus posticus superior. By its deep surface with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis colli, complexus, trachelo- mastoideus, and transversalis cervicis. The tendons of insertion of the splenius colli are interposed between and united with the tendons of the levator anguli scapulae in front, and the transversalis cervicis behind. The splenii of opposite sides of the neck leave between them a triangular interval, in which the complexus is seen. Fourth Layer. ■Dissection.—The two serrati and two splenii muscles must be re- moved by cutting them away from their origins and insertions, and the vertebral aponeurosis laid open, to bring the fourth layer into view, p