189 DEPRESSORS OP THE OS HYOIDES AND LARYNX. The two portions of this muscle are sometimes described as dis- tinct muscles under the names of sterno-mastoideus (nutator capitis internus, vel anticus) and cleido-mastoidetts (nutator capitis ex- ternus, vel posticus.) A sesamoid hone is sometimes found in the sternal tendon; this is regarded as the sternal rudiment of a cervical rib, and the osseous formations have been described by Breschet under the name of ossa suprasternalia vel episternalia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument, platysma myoides, external jugular vein, superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, and the anterior layer of the deep (Krvical fascia. By its deep surface with the deep layer of the cervical fascia, sterno-clavicular articulation, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, omo-hyoid, scaleni, levator anguli scapula, splenii, and the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle; the phrenic nerve, pos- terior scapular and suprascapular artery; the deep lymphatic glands, sheath of the common carotid and internal jugular vein, descendens noni nerve, external carotid artery and its posterior branches, and commencement of the internal carotid artery; the c€rvical plexus of nerves, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglos- sal, sympathetic and facial nerve, and parotid gland. It is pierced on this aspect by the spinal accessory nerve. The amterior border of the muscle is the posterior boundary of the great anterior triangle, the other two boundaries being the middle line of the neck in front, and the lower border of the jaw above. It is the guide to the ope- rations for the ligature of the common carotid artery and arteria innominata, and, on the left side, for oesophagotomy. The posterior border is the anterior boundary of the great posterior triangle ; the other two boundaries being the anterior border of the trapezius behind, and the clavicle below. Actions.—The platysma produces a muscular traction on the in- tegument of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in old persons as it would if the extension of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also upon the angle of the mouth, and is one of the depressors of the lower jaw. The transverse fibres draw the angle of the mouth outwards, and slightly upwards. The stemo- mastoid muscles (nutatores capitis) are the great anterior muscles of connexion between the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together bow the head directly forwards. The clavicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in supporting great weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the opposite side. Second Group).—Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno -thyroideus, Thyro-hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus.