597 ALIMENTARY CANAL. gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon. The gastro-phrenic ligament is a small duplicature of the peri- toneum, which descends from the diaphragm to the extremity of the oesophagus, and lesser curve of the stomach. The gastro-splenic omentum (ligamentum gastro-lienale) is the duplicature which con- nects the spleen to the stomach. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the upper part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen; and the descending meso-colon, that which retains the sigmoid flexure in connexion with the abdominal wall. Structure of Serous Membrane.—Serous membrane consists of two layers, an external or cellulo-fibrous layer, and an internal layer or epithelium. The cellulo-fibrous layer upon its outer sur- face is rough and vascular, and adherent to surrounding structures; but on its inner or free surface is dense and smooth, and deficient of vessels. The smooth and brilliant surface of serous membrane is due to an epithelium, composed of laminss of cells and flattened polyhedral scales with central nuclei, like the epiderma and epithe- lium of mucous membrane. Henle has observed this structure on the surface of all the serous membranes of the body, upon the sur- face of the lining membrane of arteries and veins, and on synovial meinbranes. The general characters of a serous membrane are its resemblance to a shut sac, and its secretion of a peculiar fluid, resembling the serum of the blood; but the former of these characters is not abso- lutely essential to the identity of a serous membrane; for, as we have shown above, the peritoneum in the female is perforated by the extremities of the Fallopian tubes; while in some aquatic rep- tiles there is a direct communication between its cavity and the medium in which they live. From the variable nature of the secretion of these membranes, they have been divided into two classes, the true serous membranes, viz., the arachnoid, pericardium, pleurae, peritoneum, and tunicse vaginales, which pour out a secretion containing but a small portion of albumen ; and the synovial membranes and bursse, which secrete a fluid containing a larger quantity of albumen. The Alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, extending from the mouth to the anu.s. It is variously named in the diff'erent parts of its course; hence it is divided into, the ALIMENTARY CANAL. Mouth, Pharynx, (Esophagus, Stomach, !Duodenum, Jejunum, Ileum. Large intestine < Colon, f Rectum.