MOTORES OCULORtJM. 458 of the thalamus opticus, from the thalamus itself, and from the nates. Proceeding from this origin it winds around the crus cerebri as a flattened band, under the name of tractus opticus, and joins with its fellow in front of the tuber cinereum to form the optic commissure (chiasma). The tractus opticus is united with the crus cerebri and tuber cinereum, and is covered in by the pia mater; the commissure is also connected with the tuber cinereum, from which it receives fibres, and the nerve beyond the commissure diverges from its fellow, becomes rounded in form, and is enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. In passing through the optic foramen the optic nerve receives a sheath from the dura mater, which splits at this point into two layers; one, which becomes the periosteum of the orbit; the other, the one in question, which forms a sheath for the nerve, and is lost in the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. After a short course within the orbit the optic nerve pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats and expands into the nervous membrane of the eyeball, the retina. Near the globe, the nerve is pierced by a small artery, the arteria centralis retinae, which runs through the central axis of the nerve and reaches the internal surface of the retina, to which it distributes branches. The commissure rests upon the processus olivaris of the sphenoid bone; it is bounded by the lamina cinerea of the corpus callosum in front, by the substantia perforata on each side, and by the tuber cinereum behind. Within the commissure the innermost fibres of the optic nerves cross each other to pass to opposite eyes, while the outer fibres continue their course uninterruptedly to the eye of the corresponding side. The neurilemma of the commissure, as well as that of the nerves, is formed by the pia mater. Third pair. Motores Oculorum.—The motor oculi, a nerve of moderate size, arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri, close to the pons Varolii, and passes forward between the posterior cere- bral and superior cerebellar artery. It pierces the dura mater im- mediately in front of the posterior clinoid process; descends obliquely along the external wall of the cavernous sinus; and divides into two branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The superior branch ascends, and supplies the superior rectus and levator palpe- brse. The inferior sends a branch beiieath the optic nerve to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and a long branch to the inferior oblique muscle. From the latter a short thick branch is given to the ophthalmic ganglion, forming its inferior root. The branches of the third nerve enter the muscles on their ocular side. The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced into the grey sub- stance of the crus cerebri,* into the motor tract,f and as far as the corpora quadrigemina and valve of Yieussens. In the cavernous sinus it receives one or two filaments from the carotid plexus, and one from the ophthalmic nerve. * Mayo. t SoUy.