MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 447 border, is the sixth pair of nerves. On the anterior border of the crus cerebelli, at each side, is the thick bundle of filaments belong- ing to the fifth nerve, and, lying against its posterior border, the seventh pair of nerves. The upper surface of the pons forms a part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata (bulbus rachidicus), is the upper enlarged portion of the spinal cord. It is somewhat conical in shape, and a little more than an inch in length, extending from the pons Varolii to a point corresponding with the upper border of the atlas. On the middle line in front and behind, the medulla oblongata is marked by- two vertical fissures, the anterior and posterior median fissures, which divide it superficially into two .symmetrical lateral cords or columns; whilst each lateral column is subdivided by minor grooves into three smaller cords, namely, the corpora pyramidalia, corpora olivaria, and corpora restiformia. The Corpora pyramidalia are two narrow convex cords, tapering slightly from above downwards, and situated one on either side of the anterior median fissure. At about an inch below the pons the corpora pyramidalia communicate very freely across the fissure by a decussation of their fibres, and at their point of entrance into the pons they are constricted into round cords. The fissure is somewhat enlarged by this constriction, and the enlarged space has received the name of foramen csecum (Vicq d'Azyr) of the medulla oblongata. The Corpora olivaria (named from some resemblance to the shape of an olive) are two oblong, oval-shaped, convex bodies, of about the same breadth with the corpora pyramidalia, about half-an-inch in length, and somewhat larger above than below. The corpus olivare is situated immediately external to the corpus pyramidale, from which, and from the corpus restiforme, it is separated by a well- marked groove. In this groove some longitudinal fibres are seen which enclose the base of the corpus olivare, and have been named funiculi siliquw, those which lie to its inner side being the funiculus internus, and those to its outer side the funiculus externus. Besides these there are other fibres which cross the corpus olivare obliquely, these are the Jibra; arciformes. When examined by section (fig. 163), the corpus olivare is found to be a ganglion deeply embedded in the medulla oblongata, and meeting its fellow at the middle line behind the corpus pyramidale. The ganglion of the corpus olivare (corpus dentatum, nucleus olivse), like that of the cerebellum, is a yellowish- grey dentated capsule, open behind, and containing medullary sub- stance from which a fasciculus of fibres proceeds upwards to the corpora quadrigemina and thalami optici. The nervous filaments which spring from the groove on the anterior border of the corpus