N N 2 SEMICIKCULAR CANALS—COCHLEA. 5i7 The openings of the vestibule may be arranged, like those of the tympanum, into large and small. The Large openings aire seven in number : viz. the— Fenestra ovalis, Scala vestibuli, Five openings of the three semicircular canals. The Small openings are the—• Aquseductus vestibuli, Openings for small arteries. Openings for filaments of the auditory nerve. The fenestra ovalis has already been described; it is the opening from the tympanum. The opening of the scala vestibuli is the oval termination of the vestibular canal of the cochlea. The aquceductus vestibuli (canal of Cotunnius) is the commence- ment of the small canal which opens under the osseous scale on the posterior surface of the petrous bone. It gives passage to a process of membrane (which is continuous internally with the lining mem- bran^ of the vestibule, and externally with the dura mater), and to a small vein. The openings for arteries and nerves are situated in the internal wall of the vestibule, and correspond with the termination of the meatus auditorius internus. The Semicircular canals are three bony passages communicating with the vestibule, into which they open by both extremities. Near one extremity of each of the canals is a dilatation of its cavity, which is called the ampulla (sinus ampullaceus). The superior, or perpen- dicular canal (canalis semicircularis verticalis superior), is directed transversely across the petrous bone, forming a projection on the anterior face of the latter. It commences, by means of an ampulla, in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and terminates posteriorly by joining with the oblique, and forming a common canal, which opens into the upper part of the posterior ventricle. The middle or oblique canal (canalis semicircularis verticalis posterior) corresponds with the posterior part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : it commences by an ampullary dilatation in the posterior ventricle, and curves nearly perpendicularly upwards to terminate in the common canal. In the ampulla of this canal are numerous minute openings for nervous filaments. The inferior or horizontal canal (canalis semicircularis horizontalis) is directed outwards, towards the base of the petrous bone, and is shorter than the two preceding. It commences by an ampullary dilatation in the superior ventricle, and terminates in the posterior ventricle. The Cochlea (snail shell) forms the anterior portion of the laby- rinth, corresponding by its apex with the anterior wall of the petrous bone, and by its base with the anterior depression at the bottom of