676 FOETAL LIVEE AND KIDNEYS. After the establishment of the placental circulation they cease to carry blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the early periods of uterine life; but are com- pletely removed, excepting under peculiar circumstances, at a later period. The Stomach is of small size, and the great extremity but little developed. It is also more vertical in direction the earlier it is examined, a position that would seem due to the enormous magni- tude of the liver, and particularly of its left lobe. The Appendix vermiformis cceci is long and of large size, and is continued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the C93cum, of which it appears to be a constricted continuation. This is the character of the appendix cseci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meconium ([jiriKojv, poppy), from its resemblance to the inspis- sated juice of the poppy. The Pancreas is comparatively larger in the foetus than in the adult. The Spleen is comparatively smaller in the foetus than in the adult. F(ETAL LIVEK. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo. It is deve- loped from the alimentary canal, and at about the third week fills the whole abdomen, and is one half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth, it is of very large size, and occu- pies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform ligament corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes rapidly after birth, probably from obliteration of the umbilical vein. KIDNEYS AND SUPEA-RENAL CAPSULES. The Kidneys present a lobulated appearance in the foetus, which is their permanent type among some animals, as the bear, the otter, and cetacea. The Supra-renal capsules are organs which appear, from their early and considerable development, to belong especially to the economy of the foetus. They are distinctly formed at the second month of embryonic life, and are greater in size and weight than the kidneys. At the third or fourth month, they are equalled in bulk by the kidneys; and at birth are about one-third less than those organs. VISCEEA OP THE PELVIS. The Bladder in the foetus is long and conical, and situated altogether above the upper border of the ossa pubis, which are as yet small and undeveloped. It is, indeed, an abdominal viscus, and