285 MUSCULUS ACCESSORIUS. —LUMBRICALES. give passage to the tendon of the long flexor; hence its cognomen perforatus. Relations.—By its su-perficial surface with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with a thin layer of fascia which separates it from the mnsculus accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum and flexor longus pollicis, and plantar vessels and nerves. By its borders with the vertical septa of the plantar fascia, which separate the muscle, on the one side from the ab- ductor pollicis, on the other from the abductor minimi digiti. Second Layer. Musculus accessorius, Lumbricales. Dissection. — The three preceding muscles must be divided from their origin, and anteriorly through their tendons, and removed, in order to bring into view the second layer. The MusouLus accessorius arises by two slips from either side of the under surface of the os calcis; the inner slip being fleshy, the outer tendinous and blended with the ligamentum longum plantse. It is inserted into the outer side and upper surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; of which muscle it may be regarded as a second and short head. It has been named " massa carnea Jacobi Sylvii" and " caro quadrata Sylvii." Relations.—By its superficial surface with the three muscles of the superficial layer, from which it is separated by their fascial sheaths, and with the external plantar vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the under part of the os calcis and long calcaneo- cuboid ligament. The Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm) are four little muscles * Third and part of the second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. 1. Divided edge of the plantar fascia. 2. Musculus accessorius. 3. Tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. 4. Tendon of the flexor longus poUicis. 5. Flexor brevis poUicis. 6. Adductor pollicis. 7. Mexor brevis minimi digiti. 8. Transversus pedis. 9. Interossei muscles, plantar and dorsal. 10. A convex ridge formed by the tendon of the peroneus longus in its oblique course across the foot.