261 DORSAL INTEROSSEI. The first is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis; the second and third are inserted into the middle finger, compensating its exclusion from the palmar group; the fourth is attached to the ring finger; so that each finger is provided with two interossei, with the exception of the little finger, as may be shown by means of a table, thus ;— TIM \ one dorsal (abductor indicis), Index nnqer \ ^ [ one palmar. Middle finger^ two dorsal. - ^ - T,- ji \ one dorsal, ^ ^ ( one palmar. Little finger, remaining palmar. Relations.—By their dorsal surface with a thin aponeurosis which separates them from the tendons on the dorsum of the hand. By their palmar surface with the muscles and tendons in the palm of the hand. By one side with the metacarpal bone; by the other with the corresponding palmar interosseous. The abductor indicis is in relation by its palmar surface, with the adductor pollicis and flexor brevis pollicis. The radial artery passes into the palm of the hand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (ab- ductor iadicis); and the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, between the heads of the other dorsal interossei. Actions.—The actions of the muscles of the hand are expressed in their names. Those of the radial region belong to the thumb, and provide for three of its movements, abduction, adduction, and flexion. The ulnar group, in like manner, are subservient to the same motions of the little finger, and the interossei are abductors and adductors of the several fingers. The lumbricales are accessory in their actions to the deep flexors; they were called by the earlier anatomists fidicinii, i.e. fiddlers' muscles, from an idea that they might effect the fractional movements by which the performer is enabled to produce the various notes on that instrument. In relation to the axis of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are adductors, and the three palmar adductors. It wiR therefore be seen that each finger is provided with its proper adductor and ab- ductor, two flexors, and (with the exception of the middle and ring finger) two extensors. The thumb has moreover a flexor and ex- tensor of the metacarpal bone; and the little finger a flexor of the metacarpal bone (opponens) without an extensor.