361 INTEKNAL PUDIC ARTERY. The internal branch curves inwards around the bony margin of the obturator foramen, and distributes branches to the obturator and adductor muscles, inosculating with the internal circumflex artery of the femoral. The external branch winds around the outer margin of the obturator foramen to the space between the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris, where it inosculates with the ischiatic artery. In ' its course it inosculates also with the internal circumflex, and sends a small branch through the notch in the acetabulum (r. acetabuli) to supply the ligamentum teres. The Ischiatic artery (ischiadica; glutsea inferior) is the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac. It passes downwards in front of the pyriformis and sacral plexus of nerves, and internally to the pudic artery, to the lower part of the great ischiatic foramen, where it escapes from the pelvis between the inferior border of the pyriformis and the coccygeus. It then descends in the space between the trochanter major and tube- rosity of the ischium in company with the ischiatic nerves, and divides into several branches, the principal of which are, the coccy- geal, comes nervi ischiatici and muscular. The Coccygeal branch pierces the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and is distributed to the coccygeus and levator ani, and to the inte- gument around the anus and coccyx. , The Comes nervi ischiatici is a slender branch, which accom- panies the great ischiatic nerve extending as far as the lower part of the thigh. The Muscular branches supply the muscles of the posterior part of the hip and thigh, and inosculate with the internal and external circumflex arteries, obturator, and superior perforating; some branches are also sent to the hip-joint. The Internal pudic artery (pudenda interna) the other termi- nal branch of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, descends ex- ternally to the ischiatic artery to the lower part of the great ischiatic foramen. It emerges from the pelvis through the great s'acro- ischiatic foramen between the lower border of the pyriformis and the coccygeus, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen; in the next place it passes forward on the internal obturator muscle to the ramus of the ischium, being situated at about an inch from the margin of the tuberosity, and bound down by the obturator fascia; it then ascends by the side of the ramus of the ischium and pubes, and near the symphysis pierces the triangular ligament of the perineum and divides into two terminal branches, arteria corporis cavernosi, and arteria dorsalis penis. Branches.—The branches of the internal pudic artery within the