VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 330 The second portion of the artery has the scalenus anticus in front: the scalenus medius and two lower nerves of the brachial plexus behind; the upper nerves of the plexus above, and the pleiura beloio. The scalenus anticus separates it from the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein, which latter is rather below the level of the artery. The third portion of the artery is situated in the subclavian triangle, and is more superficial than the rest. In front it is covered by the integument, platysma, and deep fascia, and crossed by the supraclavicular nerves. Lower down it is crossed by the suprascapular artery and vein, and gets behind the subclavius muscle and clavicle. Behind, it has the scalenus medius; above, the brachial plexus ; and below, the first rib and subclavian vein. Plan of the Relations of the third portion of the Subclavian Artery. Above. Brachial plexus. In Front. Integument, Platysma, Deep fascia, Supraclayicular nerves, Suprascapular vessels. Clavicle, Subclavius. Below. First rib, Subclavian vein. Branches.—The branches of the subclavian artery are four, and sometimes fiv^e in number. Three are given off from the first por- tion of the artery ; one, the superior intercostal, from the second portion; and when a fifth artery exists, it arises from the third portion, and is the suprascapular. In a tabular form the branches are as follow: Vertebral, Internal mammary, ( Inferior thyroid, Thyroid axis < Suprascapular, ( Transversa colli. Superior intercostal,—Cervicalis profunda. The Vertebral Artery (vertebralis), the first and largest of the branches of the subclavian artery, arises from the posterior aspect of that trunk ; it ascends through the foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of all the cervical vertebrae, excepting the last; then winds backwards around the articulating process of the atlas; and piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. In the foramina of the transverse pro- Subclavian artery. Third portion. Behind. Scalenus medius.