379 PLANTAR ARTERIES. Fig. 149 * division of the profunda artery; and in a case of the latter kind which occurred during my dissections, the branches were the profunda, the superficial femoral, and the internal circumflex artery. Dr. Jones Quain, in his "Elements of Anatomy," records an instance of high division of the femoral artery, in which the two vessels became again united in the popliteal region. The point of origin of the profunda artery varies considerably in difi'erent sub- jects, being sometimes nearer to and sometimes farther from Pou- part's ligament, but more frequently the former. The branches of the popliteal artery are very liable to variety in size; and in all these cases the compensating principle, so constant in the vascular system, is manifested. When the anterior tibial is of small size, the peroneal is large; and, in place of dividing into two terminal branches at the lower third of the leg, de- scends to the lower part of the in- terosseous membrane, and emerges upon the front of the ankle, to sup- ply the dorsum of the foot ; or the posterior tibial and plantar arteries are large, and the external plantar is continued between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to be distributed to the dorsal sur- face of the foot. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is small and thread-like; and the peroneal, after descending to the ankle, curves in- wards to the inner malleolus, and divides into the two plantar arteries. If, in this case, the posterior tibial be sufficiently large to reach the ankle, it inosculates with the pe- roneal previously to its division. The internal plantar artery some- times takes the distribution of the external plantar, which is short and diminutive, and the latter not un- frequently replaces a deficient dor- salis pedis. * Arteries of the sole of the foot; the first and part of the second layer of muscles having been removed. 1. Under and posterior part of the os calcis; to which the origins of the first layer of muscles remain attached. 2. Mus- culus accessorius. 3. Long flexor tendons. 4. Tendon of the peroneus longus. 5. Termination of the posterior tibial artery. 6. Internal plantar. 7. External plantar artery. 8. The plantar arch giving off four digital branches, which pass forwards on the interossei muscles. Three of these arteries are seen dividing, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, into col- lateral branches for adjoining toes.