SPHENOID BONE. 37 and circular sinus ; behind and somewhat overhanging the sella turcica, is a broad rough plate (dorsum ephippii) bounded at each angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes; and behind this plate an inclined surface (cliras Blumenbachii), which is con- tinuous with the basilar process of the occipital bone. On either side of the sella turcica is a broad groove {carotid) which lodges the internal carotid artery, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves. Immediately external to this groove, at the junction of the greater wings with the body, are four foramina : the first is a broad interval, the sphenoidal fissure, which separates the greater and lesser wings, and transmits the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind and beneath this fissure is the foramen rotiindum for the superior maxillary nerve ; and still farther back, in the base of the spinous process, the foramen ovale for the in- * The superior or cerebral surface of the sphenoid bone. 1. The processus oliTaris. 2. The ethmoidal spine. 3. The lesser wing of the left side. 4. The cerebral surface of the greater wing of the same side. 5. The spinous pro- cess. 6. The extremity of the pterygoid process of the same side, projecting downwards from the under surface of the body of the bone. 7. The foramen opticum. 8. The anterior clinoid process. 9. The groove by the side of the seUa turcica; for lodging the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus, cayern- ous sinus, and orbital nerves. 10. The sella turcica; the two tubercles in front of the figure are the middle cHnoid processes. 11. The posterior boundary of the sella turcica; its projecting angles are the posterior clinoid processes. 12. The basilar portion of the bone. 13. Part of the sphenoidal fissure. 14. The foramen rotundum. 15. The foramen ovale. 16. The foramen spinosum. 17. The angular interval which receives the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior extremity of the Vidian canal terminates at this angle. 18. The spine of the spinous process; it affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. 19. The border of the greater wing and spinous process, which articulates with the anterior part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 20. The internal border of the spinous process, which assists in the formation of the foramen lacerum basis cranii. 21. That portion of the greater ala which articulates with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. 22. The portion of the greater ala which articulates with the orbital process of the frontal bone.