CAKDIAC NEEVES. 515 The external branches consist of two sets; one which, communicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical, and first dorsal nerve, and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming the vertebral plexus. This plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by the artery, and communicates in the cranium with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The internal branch is the inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardi- acus minor. Cakdiac nerves."—The cardiac nerves are three in number on each side, namely, superior, middle, and inferior. The Superior cardiac nerve {nervus swperficialis cordis) arises from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion; it descends the neck behind the common carotid artery and parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and running by the side of the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the chest. The nerve of the right side passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery and along the posterior aspect of the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus. The left superior cardiac nerve runs by the side of the left carotid artery, and crosses the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. in its course it receives branches from the pneumogastric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Middle cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from the middle cervical ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior ganglion. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies parallel with the recurrent laryngeal. At the root of the neck it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, pneumogastric and recurrent nerve, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, communicates with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerve, and descends to the front of the bifurcation of the trachea, to the deep cardiac plexus. The Superficial cardiac plexus is situated immediately beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the right pulmonary artery. It receives the superior cardiac nerve of the left side and the in- ferior cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric nerve, both of which cross the arch of the aorta between the left phrenic and pneumo- gastric nerve. It receives besides several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus, and sometimes a cardiac branch from the right pneumogastric nerve. Connected with the plexus is a small gan- glion (sometimes wanting), the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg, which lies close to the right side of the fibrous cord of the ductus arteri- osus. The superficial cardiac plexus gives off filaments which pass