FCETAL CIRCULATION. 670 course. How this crossing is effected tlie theorist will wonder; not so the practical anatomist; for a cursory examination of the foetal heart will show-—1. That the direction of entrance of the two vessels is so opposite, that they may discharge their currents through the same cavity without admixture. 2. That the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle. 3. That by the aid of the Eustachian valve, the current in the inferior cava will be almost entirely excluded from the right auricle. 3rdly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta; and, although mixed with the impure blood of the inferior cava, yet is propelled in so great abundance to the head and upper extremities, as to provide for the increased nutrition of those important parts, and prepare them, by their greater size and development, for the functions which they are required to perform at the instant of birth. 4thly. That the blood circulating in the descending aorta is very impure, being obtained principally from the returning current in the superior cava; a small quantity only being derived from the left ven- tricle. Yet it is from this impure blood that the nutrition of the lower extremities is provided. Hence we are not surprised at their insignificant development at birth ; while we admire the providence of nature, which directs the nutrient current, in abundance, to the organs of sense, prehension, and deglutition, organs so necessary, even at the instant of birth, to the safety and welfare of the creature. After birth, the foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by a mem- branous layer, which is developed from the margin of the opening from below upwards, and completely separates the two auricles. The situation of the foramen is seen in the adult heart, upon the septum auricularum, and is called the fossa ovalis; the prominent margin of the opening is the annulus ovalis. As soon as the lungs have become inflated by the first act of inspi- ration, the blood of the pulmonary artery courses through its right and left branches into the lungs, to be returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. Thus the pulmonary circulation is established. Then the ductiis arteriosus contracts and degenerates into an imper- vious fibrous cord, serving in after life simply as a bond of union between the left pulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. The current through the umbilical cord being arrested, the hypo- gastric arteries likewise contract and become impervious. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus, also deprived of their circulating current, become reduced to fibrous cords, the former being the round ligament of the liver, and the latter a fibrous band which may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus to the inferior vena cava. Nervous ststem.—The brain is very soft, almost pulpy, and has a reddish tint throughout; its weight at birth, relatively to the entire body, is as one to six, and the difference between the white and grey