514 CERVICAL GANGLIA. the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches; one lying to the outer, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and, by their communications with each other and with the petrosal branch of the Vidian, consti- tute the carotid plexus. The inferior or descending branch, sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets; those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and hypoglossal nerve; and those which communicate with the first four cervical nerves. The internal branches are three in number; pharyngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus; laryngeal, to join the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches; and the supenor cardiac nerve, or nervus superficialis cordis. The anterior branches accompany the external carotid artery with its branches, around which they form plexuses, and here and there small ganglia; they are named, from the softness of their texture, 7iervi molles, and from their reddish hue, nervi subrufi. The branches accompanying the facial artery are conducted by that vessel to the submaxillary ganglion, and those which accompany the in- ternal maxillary artery reach the otic ganglion through the medium of the arteria meningea media. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is of small size, and sometimes altogether wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests agaiast the inferior thyroid artery. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the "thyroid ganglion." Its superior branch, or branches, ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion; one of these frequently passes in front of the subclavian artery, the other behind it. Its external branches communicate with the fifth and sixth cervi- cal nerves. Its internal branches are filaments which acompany the inferior thyi'oid artery, the inferior thyroid plexus; and the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and is constant in its existence. It is of a semilunar form, and situated on the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral arteiy; hence its designation ^''vertebral ganglion.'''' Its superior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. The inferior branches pass some before and some behind the sub- clavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion.