THE LIVER. 624 face and concave below, where it lies in contact with the anterior surface of the stomach. It is sometimes in contact by its extremity with the upper end of the spleen, and is in relation, by its posterior border, with the cardiac orifice of the stomach and left pneumo- gastric nerve. The Lobus quadratus is a quadrilateral lobe situated on the under surface of the right lobe: it is bounded, in front, by the free border of the liver; behind, by the transverse fissure ; to the right, by the gall-bladder ; and to the left, by the longitudinal fissure. The Lobus Spigelii* is a small triangular lobe, also situated on the under surface of the right lobe: it is bounded, in front, by the transverse fissure ; and, on the sides, by the fissures for the ductus venosus and vena cava. The Lobus caudatus is a small tail-like appendage of the lobus Spigelii, from which it runs outwards like a crest into the right lobe, and serves to separate the right extremity of the transverse fis- sure from the commencement of the fissure for the vena cava. In some persons this lobe is well marked, in others it is small and ill- defined. Reverting to the comparison of the fissures with an inverted y, it will be observed, that the quadrilateral interval, in front of the transverse bar, represents the lobus quadratus ; the triangular space behind the bar, the lobus Spigelii; and the apex of the letter, the point of union between the inferior vena cava and the obliterated cord of the ductus venosus. Vessels and Nerves.—The vessels entering into the structure of the liver are silsofive in number ; they are the— Hepatic artery, Hepatic veins, Lymphatics. Portal vein, Hepatic ducts. The Hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, enter the liver at the transverse fissure, and ramify through portal canals to every part of the organ ; so that their general direction is from below upwards, and from the centre towards the circumference. The Hepatic veins commence at the circumference, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava on the posterior border of the liver. Hence the branches of the two veins cross "each other in their course. The portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct are moreover enveloped in a loose cellular tissue, the capsule of Grlisson, which permits them to contract upon themselves when emptied of their contents ; the hepatic veins, on the contrary, are closely adherent by their parietes to the surface of the canals in which they run, and are unable to contract. By these characters the anatomist is enabled, in any section of the liver, to distinguish at once the most minute * Adrian Spigel, a Belgian physician, professor at Padua, after Casserius in 1616. He assigned considerable importance to this little lobe, but it had been described by Sylvius full sixty years before his time.