112 PHALAKGES. commencing-with the great toe and proceeding to the fifth, appear towards the close of the second year, consolidation being effected at eighteen. Articulatians.—With the tarsal bones by one extremity, and the first row of phalanges by the other. The number of tajsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates from within outwards, is the same as between the bones of the metacarpus and carpus, one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth, forming the cipher 13121. Attacliment of Muscles.—To fourteen: to the first, peroneus longus and first dorsal interosseous muscle; to the second, two dorsal interossei and transversus pedis; to the third, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis; to the fourth, t"n'o dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor pollicis and transversus pedis; to the fifth, one dorsal and one plantar in- terosseous, peroneus brevis, peroneus tertius, adductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. Phalanges.—There are two phalanges in the great toe and three in the other toes, as in the hand. They are long bones, divisible into a central portion and extremities. The phalanges of the first row are convex above, concave on the under surface, and compressed from side to side. The posterior extremity has a single concave articular surface, for the head of the metatarsal bone; the anterior extremity, a pulley-Hke surface, for the second phalanx. The second ^3/<«/a?2<76's are short and diminutive, but somewhat broader than those of the first row. The third or ungual pJicdanges, including the second phalanx of the great toe, are flattened from above downwards, spread out late- rally at the base to articulate with the second row, and at the oppo- site extremity to support the nail and the rounded extremity of the toe. Development.—By two centres : one for the body and one for the metacarpal extremity. Ossification commences in these bones after that in the metatarsus, appearing firstly in the last phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the middle row. The bones are completed at eighteen. Articvlations.—The first row with the metatarsal bones and second phalanges; the second, of the great toe, with the first pha- lanx ; of the other toes with the first and third phalanges; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three : to thefrstphalanges; great toe, the innermost tendon of the extensor bre\'is digitorum, ab- ductor pollicis, adductor pollicis, flexor b^e^"is pollicis, and transversus pedis; second toe, first dorsal and first plantar interosseous and lum- bricaiis; third toe, second dorsal and second plantar interosseous and lumbricalis; fouiih toe, third dorsal and tliird plantar interosseous