657 URETHRA—VAGINA. portion of the small intestine also occupies the upper part of its cavity. The Bladder is in relation with the pubes in front, with the uterus behind, from which it is usually separated by a convolution of small intestine, and with the neck of the uterus and vagina be- neath. The form of the female bladder corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after frequent parturition. The coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The Urethra, about an inch and a half in length, is lodged in the upper and anterior wall of the vagina, in its course downwards and forwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, to the meatus urinarius. It is lined by mucous membrane, disposed in longitudinal folds, and is continuous internally with that of the bladder, and externally with that of the vulva; the mucous membrane is surrounded by a proper coat of elastic tissue, to which the muscular fibres of the de- trusor urinse are attached, by a plexus of blood-vessels and by the fibres of the compressor urethrse. It is to the elastic tissue that is due the remarkable dilatability of the female urethra, and its speedy return to its original diameter. The meatus is encircled by a ring of fibrous tissue, which prevents it from distending with the same facility as the rest of the canal; hence it is sometimes advan- tageous, in performing this operation, to divide the margin of the meatus with the knife. VAGINA. The Vagina is a membranous canal, leading from the vulva to the uterus, and corresponding in direction with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. It is constricted at its commencement, but near the uterus becomes dilated, and is closed by the contact of the anterior with the posterior wall. Its length is variable; but it is always longer upon the posterior than upon the anterior wall, the former being usually about five or six inches in length, and the latter four or five. It is attached to the cervix of the uterus, which latter projects into the upper extremity of the canal. In structure the vagina is composed of a mucous lining, a layer of erectile tissue, and an external tunic of contractile fibrous tissue, resembling the dartos of the scrotum. The upper fourth of the pos- vagina. 14. The wall of separation between the vagina and rectum. 15. The perinseum. 16. The os uteri. 17. Its cervix. 18. The fundus uteri. The cavitas uteri is seen along the centre of the organ. 19. The rectum, showing the disposition of its mucous membrane. 20. The anus. 21. The upper part of the rectum, invested by the peritoneum. 23. The utero-vesical fold of peritoneum. The recto-uterine fold is seen between the rectum and the posterior wall of the vagina. 24. The reflexion of the peritoneum, from the apex of the bladder upon the urachus to the internal surface of the abdominal parietes. 25. The last lumbar vertebra. 26. The sacrum. 27. The coccyx. u u