446 BASE OP THE BRAIN. two lobes, closely pressed together, the anterior lobe being the larger of the two, and oblong in shape, the posterior round. Both lobes are connected with the infundibulnm, but the latter is so soft in texture as to be generally torn through in the removal of the brain. Indeed, for the purposes of the student, it is better to effect this separation with the knife, and leave the pituitary body in situ, to be exa- mined with the base of the cranium. The Corpora albicantia (mammillaria, pisiformia, bulbi fornicis) are two white convex bodies, having the shape and size of peas, situated behind the tuber cinereum, and between the crura cerebri. They are a part of the crura of the fornix, which, after their origin from the thalami optici, descend to the base of the brain, and making a sudden curve upon themselves previously to their ascent to the lateral ventricles, constitute the corpora albicantia. When divided by section, these bodies will be found to be composed of a capsule of white substance, containing grey matter, the grey matter of the two corpora being connected by means of a commissure. The Locus perforatus (posticus) is a layer of whitish-grey sub- stance, connected in front with the corpora albicantia, behind with the pons Varolii, and on each side with the crura cerebri, between which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arte- ries, which are distributed to the thalami optici and third ventricle, of which latter it assists in forming the floor. It is also called the pons Tarini. The Crura cerebri (peduncles of the cerebrum) are two thick white cords, which issue from the anterior border of the pons Varolii, and diverge to enter the thalami optici. By their outer side the crura cerebri are continuous with the corpora quadrigemina, and, above, they constitute the lower boundary of the aqueduct of Sylvius. "Within, they contain grey matter, which has a semilunar shape when the crus is divided transversely, and has been termed the locus niger. The third nerve will be observed to arise from the inner side of each crus, and the fourth nerves wind around their outer border from above. The Pons Varolii* (protuberantia annularis, nodus encephali) is the broad transverse band of white fibres which arches like a bridge across the upper part of the medulla oblongata; and, contracting on each side into a thick rounded cord, enters the substance of the cere- bellum under the name of crus cerebelli. There is a groove along its middle which lodges the basilar artery. The pons Varolii is the com- missure of the cerebellum, and associates the two lateral lobes in their common function. Resting against the pons, near its posterior * Constant Varolius, Professor of Anatomy in Bologna: died in 1578. He dissected the brain in the course of its fibres, beginning from the medulla oblongata; a plan which has since been perfected by Vieussens, and by Gall and Spurzheim. The work containing his mode of dissection, " De Kesolu- tione Corporis Humani," was pubhshed after his death, in 1591.