556 EPIDERMA OR CUTICLE. the nail they are long and filiform, while beneath its concave sur- face they form longitudinal and parallel plications which extend for nearly the entire length of that organ. In structure each papilla is composed of a more or less convoluted capillary, and a more or less convoluted nervous loop. The Epiderma or cuticle (epidermis, scarfskin) is a product of the derma, which it serves to envelope and defend. That surface of the epiderma which is exposed to the influence of the atmosphere and exterior sources of injury, is hard and horny in texture, while that which lies in contact with the papillary layer is soft and cel- lular. Hence the epiderma, like the derma, is divisible into two layers, external and internal, the latter being termed the rete mii- cosum. Moreover, the epiderma is laminated in structure, and the laminee present a progressively increasing tenuity and density as (liquor sanguinis) is poured out upon the surface of the derma. This fluid, by virtue of the vital force inherent in itself, and communicated to it by contact with a living tissue, is converted into granules, which are termed cell-germs or cytoblasts. By endosmosis, these cytoblasts imbibe serum from the plastic lymph and adjacent tissues, and the outermost layer or pellicle of the cytoblast becomes gradually dis- tended by the imbibed fluid. The cytoblast has now become a cell, and the solid portion of the cytoblast, which always remains adhe- rent to some one point of the internal surface of the cell-membrane, is the nucleus of the cell. Moreover, within the nucleus one or se- veral nuclei are formed, which are termed nucleoli. By a continu - * Diagram illustrative of the development of the epiderma, and of epithelia in general, according to the theory of Schwann. 1. A granule or cytoblast. 2. The cell seen rising on the cytoblast; the latter is now a nucleus, and a nucleolus may be detected in its interior. 3. The spheroidal cell. 4. The ova^cell. 5. The elliptical cell. 6. The flattened cell; which, by contact of its waUs, is speedily converted into a scale in which the nucleus is lost. 7. A nucleated scale as seen upon its flat surface. 8. A cluster of such scales. Fig. 191.* they advance from the inner to the outer surface. This difference of density is dependent on the mode of growth of the epiderma, for as the external surface is con- stantly subjected to destruction from attrition and chemical ac- tion, so the membrane is continu- ally reproduced on its internal surface; new layers being succes- sively formed on the derma to take the place of the old. The theory of growth of the epiderma, deduced from the ob- servations of Schwann, is as fol- lows : a stratum of plastic lymph