GUSTATORY NERVE. 468 supra-orbital, subcutaneus malse and lacbrymal nerve; tlie posterior is distributed to the upper part of the pinna, the attrahens aurem muscle, and the integument of the posterior part of the temple. The Inferior dental nerve, the largest of the three branches of the internal division of the inferior maxillary, passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, and then between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the lower jaw, to the dental foramen. It then runs along the canal in the inferior maxillary bone, distributing branches (in- ferior maxillary plexus) to the teeth and gums, and divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. The Branches of the inferior dental nerve, besides those given to the teeth, are the mylo-hyoidean and the two terminal branches. The Mylo-hyoidean branch leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen; it then pierces the insertion of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and descends along a groove in the bone to the inferior surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which, and to the anterior belly of the digastricus, it is distributed. The Incisive branch is continued forward to the symphysis of the jaw, to supply the incisor teeth. The Mental or labial branch emerges from the jaw at the mental foramen, beneath the depressor anguli oris, and divides into branches which supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip and chin, and communicate with the facial nerve. The GrusTATORT nerve descends between the two pterygoid muscles, and makes a gentle curve forwards to the side of the tongue, along which it takes its course to the tip. On the side of the tongue it is flattened, and gives off numerous branches, which are distributed to the mucous membrane and papillae. In the upper part of its course the gustatory nerve lies between the external pterygoid muscle and the pharynx, next between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, and between the stylo-glossus muscle and the submaxillary gland ; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting against the byo-glossus muscle, and crossing the dnct of the submaxillary gland, and is covered in by the mylo-hyoideus and mucous membrane. The gustatory nerve, while between the pterygoid muscles, often ' receives a communicating branch from the inferior dental; lower down it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, a small nerve which, arising from the facial in the aqueductus Fallopii, crosses the tympanum, and escapes from that cavity through the fissura Griaseri. Having joined the gustatory nerve, the chorda tympani is continued downwards in its sheath to the submaxillary ganglion. One or two branches are given by the gustatory nerve to the sub- maxillary ganglion.