KNEE JOINT. 152 ating band, wliicli descends obliquely from tbe anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and strengthens the anterior portion of the capsular ligament. The ligamentum teres (fig. 77, 7), triangular in shape, is attached by a round apex to the depression just below the middle of the head of the femur, and by its base, which divides into two fasciculi, into the borders of the notch of the acetabulxun. It is formed by a fasci- culus of fibres of variable size, surrounded by synovial membrane ; sometimes the synovial membrane alone exists, or the ligament is wholly absent. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 77, 6) is a prismoid cord of fibrocar- tilage, attached around the margin of the acetabulum, and serving to deepen that ca-vdty and protect its edges. It is thicker on the upper and posterior border of the acetabulum than in front, and con- sists of fibres v/liich arise from the whole circumference of the brim, and interlace with each other at acute angles. It is directed inwards towards the acetabulum. The transverse ligament is a strong fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the cotyloid ligament, and extended across the notch of the acetabulum. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the articular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator artery enter the joint. The fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum is filled by a mass of fat, covered with synovial membrane, which serves as an elastic cushion for the head of the bone during its movements. This was considered by Havers as the synovial gland. The synovial memhrane is extensive ; it invests the head of the femur, and is continued around the ligamentum teres into, the aceta- bulum, whence it is reflected upon the inner surface of the capsular ligament back to the head of the bone. The muscles immediately surrounding and in contact with the hip joint are, in front, the psoas and iliacus, which are separated from the capsular ligament by a large synovial bursa ; above, the short head of the rectus and the gluteus minimus ; behind, the pyiiformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and qua- dratus femoris ; and to the inner side, the obturator externus and pectineus. Actions.—The movements of the hip joint are very extensive; they are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. 2. Knee Joint.—The knee is a ginglymoid articulation of large size, and is provided with numerous ligaments ; they are thirteen in number, namely: Anterior or ligamentum patellae, Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Internal lateral. Two external lateral, •