DESCENT OP THE TESTES. 678 While situated in the lumbar region, tlie testis and gubemaculum are placed behind the peritoneum by which they are invested upon their anterior surface and sides. As they descend, the investing peritoneum is carried downwards with the testis into the scrotum, forming a lengthened pouch, which by its upper extremity opens into the cavity of the peritoneum. The upper part of this pouch, being compressed by the spermatic canal, is gradually obliterated, the obliteration extending downwards along the spermatic cord nearly to the testis. That portion of the peritoneum which imme- diately surrounds the testis is, by the above process, cut off from its continuity with the peritoneum, and is termed the tunica vaginalis ; and as this membrane must be obviously a shut sac, one portion of it investing the testis, and the other being reflected so as to form a loose bag around it, its tM'-o portions have received the ap- pellations of tunica vaginalis propria, and tunica vaginalis reflexa. Fig. 235.* Fig. 236.f The descent of the testis is effected by means of the traction of the muscle of the gubernaculum, the cremaster. " The fibres," writes Mr. Curling, ' * proceeding from Poupart's ligament, and the obliquus internus, tend to guide the gland into the inguinal canal; those at- tached to the OS pubis, to draw it below the abdominal ring; and the * A diagram illustrating the descent of the testis. 1. The testis, 2. The epididymis. 3, 3. The peritoneum. 4. The pouch formed around the testis by the peritoneum, the future cavity of the tunica vaginahs. 5. The pubic portion of the cremaster attached to the lower part of the testis. 6. The portion of the cremaster attached to Poupart's ligament. The mode of eversion of the cremaster is shown by these lines. 7. The gubernaculum, attached to the bottom of the scrotum, and becoming shortened by the con- traction of the muscular fibres which surround it. 8, 8. The cavity of the scrotum. t In this figure the testis has completed its descent. The gubernaculum is shortened to its utmost, and the cremaster completely everted. The pouch of peritoneum above the testis is compressed so as to form a tubular canal; z. A dotted line marks the point at wliich the tunica vaginalis wiU terminate superiorly; and the number 2 its cavity. 3. The peritoneal cavity.