CIECUMFLEX NERVE. 493 branch passes down the outer side of the forearm, reaches its pos- terior aspect at about the middle, and is continued onwards to the wrist, where it communicates with the posterior branch of the mus- culo-cutaneous. The Radial nerve runs along the radial side of the forearm to the commencement of its lower third; it there passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and at about two inches above the wrist- joint pierces the deep fascia and divides into an external and an in- ternal branch. The external branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the outer border of the thumb, and communicates with the posterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the direction of the extensor tendons of the thumb, and divides into several filaments for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb, radial border of the index finger, and adjacent borders of the index and middle finger. It communicates above the wrist with the pos- terior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and on the back of the hand forms an arch by joining with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the backs of the fingers the digital branches communi- cate with those of the median nerve. In the upper third of the forearm the radial nerve lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle ; in the middle third it is in relation with the radial artery, lying to its outer side ; and in the lower third it quits the artery, and passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to reach the back of the hand. , The Posterior interosseous nerve, somewhat larger than the radial, separates from the latter at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supinator brevis muscle, and emerges from its lower border on the posterior aspect of the forearm, where it divides into branches which supply all the muscles of the posterior aspect of the fore- arm, with the exception of the anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. One branch, longer than the rest, descends upon the interosseous membrane to the posterior part of the wrist, and forms a gangliform swelling (a common character of nerves which supply joints), from which numerous filaments are distributed to the wrist-joint. The CiRCUMPiiEX NERVE arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus in common with the musculo-spiral. It passes downwards over the border of the subscapularis muscle, winds around the neck of the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and splits into an upper and a lower division ; the upper division is continued onwards beneath the deltoid, and distributed to the anterior part of that muscle, some of its branches piercing the muscular fibres and becoming cutaneous. The lower division sends a branch (remarkable for a gangliform swelling) to the teres minor, several branches to the posterior part of the deltoid, and mounting upon the border of the muscle becomes cutaneous, sup-