CLITORIS—HYMEN. 664 extension of tlie vulva during parturition ; for, in the passage of the head of the fcetus, the labia are unfolded and completely effaced. The Labia minora, or nym'pTice, are two smaller folds, situated within the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two pro- cesses, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior fold form- ing the praeputium clitoridis, the inferior its frsenulum. Inferiorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost on the sides of the opening of the vagina. The nymphse consist of mucous membrane, covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. They are provided with a number of mucous follicles, and contain, in their interior, a plexus of blood-vessels. The Clitoris is a small elongated organ situated in front of the pubes, and supported by a suspensory ligament. It is formed by a small body, which is analogous to the corpus cavernosum penis, and, like it, arises from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium on each side, by two crura. At the extremity of the clitoris is a small accumulation of erectile tissue which is highly sensitive, and is termed the glans. The corpus cavernosum clitoridis, like that of the penis, is composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is susceptible of erection. Like the penis, also, it is provided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis. At about an inch behind the clitoris is the entrance of the vagina, an elliptical opening, marked by a prominent margin. The entrance to the vagina is closed in the virgin by a membrane of a semilunar form, which is stretched across the opening; this is the hymen. Sometimes the membrane forms a complete septum, and gives rise to great inconvenience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imi^erforate hymen. The hymen must not be considered a necessary accompaniment of virginity, for its existence is very uncertain. When present, it assumes a variety of appearances: it may be a membranous fringe, with a round opening in the centre, or a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front; or a transverse septum, having 'an opening both in front and behind ; or a vertical band with an opening at each side. The rupture of the hymen, or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of a fringe of papillae around the opening of the vagina; these are called carunculce myrtiformes. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the en- trance of the vagina, which is bounded on each side by the upper portions of the nymphse, is the vestibule. At the posterior part of the vestibule and near the margin of the vagina is the opening of the urethra, the meatus urinarius; and around the meatus an elevation of the mucous membrane formed by the aggregation of numerous mucous glands. This prominence serves as a guide to finding the meatus in the operation of intro- ducing the female catheter. Beneath the vestibule on each side, and extending from the clitoris to the side of the vagina, are two oblong or pyriform bodies, consisting of erectile tissue enclosed in a thin