LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 408 at the bend of the elbow; and one or two near the basilic vein, on the inner side of the upper arm, immediately above the elbow. The Deep glands in the forearm are excessively small and infrequent; two or three may be found in the course of the radial and ulnar vessels. In the upper arm there is a chain of small glands, accompanying the brachial artery. The Axillary glands are numerous and of large size. Some are closely adherent to the vessels, others are dispersed in the loose cellular tissue of the axilla, and a small chain may be observed ex- tending along the lower border of the pectoralis major to the mam- mary gland. Two or three subclavian glands are situated beneath the clavicle, and serve as the medium of communication between the axillary and deep cervical lymphatic glands. Vessels.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper ex- tremity commence upon the fingers and take their course along the forearm to the bend of the elbow. The greater part reach their destination by passing along the dorsal surface of the fingers, wrist, and forearm, and then curving around the borders of the latter; but some few are met with in the palm of the hand, which take the direction of the median vein. At the bend of the elbow the lym- phatics arrange themselves into two groups; an internal and larger group, which communicates with a gland situated just above the inner condyle, and then accompanies the basilic vein upwards to the axilla to enter the axillary glands; and a smaller group which fol- lows the course of the cephalic vein. Several of the vessels of this group cross the biceps muscle at its upper part to reach the axillary glands, while the remainder, two or three in number, ascend with^ the cephalic vein in the interspace of the deltoid and pectoralis major; these latter usually join a small gland in this space, and then cross the pectoralis minor muscle to become continuous with the subclavian lymphatics. Besides the lymphatic vessels of the arm, the axillary glands re- ceive those from the integument of the chest, its anterior, posterior, and lateral aspect, and the lymphatics of the mammary gland. The Deep lymphatics accompany the vessels of the upper ex- tremity, and communicate occasionally with the superficial lym- phatics. They enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and, at the root of the neck, terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. LYMPHATICS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. GrLANDS.—The Superficial lymphatic glands of the lower ex- tremity are those of the groin, the inguinal; and one or two situ- ated in the superficial fascia of the posterior aspect of the thigh, just above the popliteal region. The iTiguinal glands are divisible into two groups; a superior