5 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. chyle, and lympli; secondly, they may cohere by their surfaces and borders, as in the epiderma and epithelium; thirdly, they may be connected by an intermediate substance, which is then termed inter- cellular, as in cartilage and bone; and, fourthly, they may unite with each other in rows, and upon the removal, by liquefaction, of their adherent surfaces, be converted into hollow tubuli. In the latter mode capillary vessels are formed, as also are the tubuli of nerves. One of the properties of cells may also be adverted to in this place; it is that of reproducing similar cells in their interior. In this case the nucleoli become the nuclei of the secondary cells, and as the latter increase in size the membrane of the primary or parent cell is lost. Bone, in its earliest stage, is composed of an assemblage of these minute cells, which are soft and transparent, and are disposed within the embryo in the site of the future skeleton. From the resemblance which the soft bone-tissue bears to jelly, this has been termed the gelatinous stage of osteo-genesis. As development advances, the cells, heretofore loosely connected together, become separated by the interposition of a transparent intercellular substance, which, at first fluid, gradually becomes hard and condensed. The cartilaginous stage of osteo-genesis is now established, and cartilage is shown to consist of a transparent basis-substance, having minute cells dis- seminated at pretty equal distances through its structure. Coincident with the formation of cartilage is the development of vascular canals in its substance, the canals being formed by the union of the cells in rowfe, and the subsequent liquefaction of their adhering sur&ces. The change which next ensues is the concentration of the vascular canals towards some one point; for example, the centre of the shaft in a long, or the mid-point of a flat bone, and here the punctum ossificationis, or centre of ossification, is established. What deter- mines the vascular concentration now alluded to, is a question not easily solved, but that it takes place is certain, and the vascular punctum is the most easily demonstrable of all the phenomena of ossification. During the formation of the punctum ossificationis, changes begin to be apparent in the cartilage cells. Originally they are simple nu- cleated cells (g-fnnr Trnnr of v^oh in diameter), having a rounded form. As growth proceeds, they become elongated in their figure, and it is then perceived that each cell contains two and often three nucleoli, around which smaller cells are in progress of formation. If we examine them nearer to the punctum ossificationis, we find that the young or secondary cells have each attained the size of the parent cell (2-^013" of inch), the membrane of the parent cell has disappeared, and the young cells are separated to a short distance by freshly effused intercellular substance. Nearer still to the punc- tum ossificationis a more remarkable change has ensued, the energy of cellule reproduction has augmented with proximity to the ossifying point, and each cell, in place of producing two, gives birth to four,