•208 MUSCLES OP THE BACK. between the attachments of the scalenus medius in front and the splenius colli and transversalis cervicis behind. The Ehomboideus minor (dorso-scapularis; rhombus, a paralle- logram mth four equal sides) is a narrow slip of muscle, detached from the rhomboideus major by a slight cellular interspace. It arises from the spinous process of the last cervical vertebra and li- gamentum nuchse; and is inserted into the edge of the triangular surface, on the posterior border of the scapula. The Rhomboideus major arises from the spinous processes and inter-spinous ligaments of the four upper dorsal vertebrse; it is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula as far as its inferior angle. The upper and middle portion of the insertion is effected by means of a tendinous band, which is attached in a longitudinal di- rection to the posterior border of the scapula. Relations.—By their superficial surface the rhomboid muscles are in relation with the trapezius, and the rhomboideus major also with the latissimus dorsi and integument; by their deep surface with the serratus posticus superior, erector spinse, intercostal muscles and ribs. Third Layer. Dissection.—The third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the vertebral column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulae near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula. The latter muscles should now be removed. The Serratus posticus superior (dorso-costalis) is situated at the upper part of the thorax; it arises fi'om the ligamentum nuchse, and spinous processes of the last cervical and two upper dorsal vertebree. The muscle passes obliquely downwards and outwards, and is inserted by four serrations into the upper border of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Relations.—By its supjerficial surface with the trapezius, rhom- boideus major and minor, and serratus magnus. By its deep surface with the splenius, erector spinse, intercostal muscles and ribs. The Serratus posticus inferior (lumbo-costalis) arises from the spinous processes and interspinous ligaments of the two lower dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebrae, and passing obliquely up- wards, is inserted by four serrations into the lower border of the four inferior ribs. Both muscles are constituted by a thin aponeurosis for about half their extent. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the latissimus dorsi, its tendinous origin being inseparably connected with the aponeui'osis of that muscle. By its deep surface with the erector spinje, inter- costal muscles and lower ribs. The upper border is continuous with a thin tendinous layer, the vertebral aponeurosis. The Vertebral aponeurosis (fascia lumbo-dorsal^s) is a thin mem-