DUODENUM. —ILEUM. 605 the peritoneum : it is in relation, above with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder ; in front with the great omentum and abdominal parietes; and behind with the right border of the lesser omentum and its vessels. The second or perpendicular portion (pars de- scendens) is situated altogether behind the peritoneum : it is in rela- tion by its anterior surface with the commencement of the arch of the colon; by its posterior surface with the concave margin of the right kidney, the inferior vena cava, and ductus communis chole- dochus ; by its right border with the ascending colon : and by its left border with the pancreas. The ductus communis choledochus and pancreatic duct open into the internal and posterior side of the perpendicular portion, a little below its middle. The third or transverse portion (pars transversa inferior) of the duodenum, the longest and narrowest of the three, lies between the diverging layers of the transverse mesocolon, with which and with the stomach it is in relation in front; above, it is in contact with the lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being inter- posed ; and, behind, it rests upon the inferior vena cava and aorta. The Jejunum (jejunus, empty) is named from being generally found empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intestine : commencing at the duodenum {flexura duodeno-jejunalis) on the left s\de of the second lumber vertebra, and terminating in the ileum. It is thicker to the touch than the rest of the intestine, has a pink- ish tinge from containing more mucous membrane than the ileum, and is situated in the umbilical region and left iliac fossa. • The Ileum (eiXeiv, to twist, to convolute) includes the remain- ing three-fifths of the small intestine. It is somewhat smaller in calibre, thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum ; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It is situated in the umbilical and hypogastric region and pelvic cavity, and terminates in the right iliac fossa, by opening at an obtuse angle into the colon. The small intestines form in their course a double curve resem- bling the letter S, the upper curve to the right representing that of the duodenum ; and the lower to the left that of the jejunum and ileum to the termination of the latter in the caecum. The jejunum and ileum are surrounded, above and at the sides, by the colon; in front they are in relation with the omentum and abdominal parietes; they are retained in their position by the me- sentery, which connects them with the posterior wall of the abdo- men ; and below they descend into the cavity of the pelvis. At about the lower third of the ileum a pouch-like process or diverti- culum of the intestine is occasionally seen. This is a vestige of em- bryonic structure, and is formed by the obliteration of the omphalo- mesenteric or vitelline duct at a short distance from the cylinder of the intestine.