120 FIBROUS TISSUE. The development of cartilage is the same with that of cartilage of bone (p. 5), the different forms of cartilage resulting from subse- quent changes in the intercellular substance and cells. Thus in articular cartilage the cells undergo the lowest degree of development, are very disproportionate to the intercellular substance, and the latter remains permanently structureless. In reticular cartilage the cells possess a more active growth, and surpass in bulk the inter- cellular substance, while the latter is composed also of cells, which assume a fibrous disposition. In fibrous cartilage, development is most energetic in the intercellular substance; this is converted into fasciculi of fibrous tissue, while the interspaces are filled with cells and imperfect fibrous tissue in every stage of development. Fibrous Tissue is one of the most generally distributed of all the animal tissues; it is composed of fibres of extreme minuteness, and presents itself under three elementary forms; namely, white fibrous tissue, yellow fibrous tissue, and red fibrous tissue. In white fibrous tissue, the fibres are cylindrical, exceedingly minute (about 15000th of an inch in diameter), transparent and undulating; they are collected into small fasciculi (from 30^00 ^ loooo^^ of inch), and these latter form larger fasciculi, which, according to their arrangement, give rise to the production of thin lamina, membranes, ligamentous bands, and tendinous cords. The connecting medium of the fibres in the formation of the primitive fasciculi is a transparent, structureless, interfibrous substance or blastema, to which in most situations are added numerous minute dark filaments derived from nuclei, and thence termed nuclear fila- ments. The nuclear filaments are sometimes wound spirally round the fasciculi, or interlace with their separate fibres; at other times they are variously twisted, and run parallel with the fasciculi. The fasciculi are connected and held together in the formation of mem- branes and cords by loose fibres which are interwoven between them, or by mutual interlacement. Examples of white fibrous tissue are met with in three principal forms; namely, membrane, ligament, and tendon. The membranous form of white fibrous tissue is seen in the common connecting medium of the body, namely, cellular membrane, fibro-cellular, celltdar, areolar, or filamentous tissue, in which the membrane is extremely thin, and disposed in laminse, bands, or threads, leaving interstices of various size between them. It is seen also in the condensed covering of various organs, as the periosteum, perichondrium, capsulse propria of glands, membranes of the brain, sclerotic coat of the eyeball, pericardium, fasciae; sheaths of muscles, tendons, vessels, nerves, and ducts; sheaths of the erectile organs, and the corium of the dermal and mucous membrane. Ligament is the name given to those bands of various breadth and thickness which retain the articular ends of bones in contact in the construction of joints. They are glistening, inelastic, and com- posed of fasciculi of fibrous tissue ranged in a parallel direction side