SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 329 portion of the right aud left arteries differs in its course and rela- .tions in correspondence with the dissimilarity of origin above referred to. The other two portions are precisely alike on both sides. first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends perpendicularly to the inner border of that muscle. The second portion curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus; and the third portion passes downwards ■ and outwards beneath the clavicle, to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. Relations.—Hhe first portion, on the right side, is in relation, in front, with the internal jugular and vertebral vein, and is crossed by the pneumogastric nerve, phrenic nerve, and one or two branches of the sympathetic. Behind and beneath it is invested by the pleura, is crossed by the right recun-ent laryngeal nerve, and is in relation farther back with the sympathetic nerve, longus colli muscle, and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The first por- tion on the left side is in relation in front with the pleura, internal jugular vein, vena innominata, and the pneumogastric and phrenic nerve (which lie parallel to it). To its inner side is the left carotid artery, trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct; to its outer side the pleura; and behind, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, longus colli, and vqrtebral column. Plan of the Relations of the first portion of the Right Subclavian Artery. Behind cmd Beneath. Pleura, Recurrent nerve, Sympathetic nerve, Longus colli muscle. Transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra. Plan of the Relations of the^rs^ portion of the Left Subclavian Artery. In Front. Pleura, Internal jugular vein, Vena innominata, Pneumogastric nerve. Phrenic nerve. Inner Side. Left carotid artery, Trachea, CEsophagus, Thoracic duct. Behind. CEsophagus, Thoracic duct, Longus coUi, Vertebral column. In Front. Internal jugular vein, Vertebral vein, Pneumogastric nerve. Phrenic nerve, Sympathetic filaments. Eight Subclavian Artery. Left subclavian artery. Outer Side. Pleura.