CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS, 386 are confined to separate bones ; but in old age, after tbe ossification of the sutnres, they may be traced from one bone to the next. They receive their blood from the capillaries supplying the cellular structure of the diploe, and terminate externally in the veins of the pericranium, internally, in the veins and sinuses of the dura mater; they are separated from the bony walls of the canals by a thin layer of medulla. Breschet describes four of these diploetic veins, namely, frontalis, temporalis anterior, temporalis posterior, and occipitalis. The diploetica frontalis, the smallest of the four, escapes from the frontal bone at the supraorbital notch, and opens into the supra- orbital vein. The temporalis anterior also collects the blood from the frontal bone, and terminates either in the deep temporal veins or. in the cavernous sinus. The temporalis posterior commences in the parietal bone, and opens into the lateral sinus, sometimes send- ing a branch outwards to the veins of the scalp. The occipitalis, the largest of the four, originates in the occipital bone, and termi- nates in the occipital sinus, or externally in the occipital vein. CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. The cerebral veins are remarkable for the absence of valves, and for the extreme tenuity of their coats. They may be arranged into the superficial, and deep or ventricular veins. The Superficial cerebral veins are situated on the surface of the hemispheres lying in the grooves formed by the convexities of the convolutions. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy upon the surface of this organ, either superior or inferior, internal or external, anterior or posterior. The Superior cerebral veins, seven or eight in number on each side, pass obliquely forwards, and terminate in the superior longi- tudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the stream of blood in the sinus. In the infant the direction of these veins is nearly transverse. The Deep or Ventricular veins commence within the lateral ventricles by the veins of the corpora striata and those of the choroid plexus, which unite to form the two vense Graleni. The VencB Galeni pass backwards in the structure of the velum interpositum ; and escaping through the fissure of Bichat, terminate in the straight sinus. The Cerebellar veins are disposed, like those of the cerebrum, on the surface of the lobes of the cerebellum ; they are situated, some on the superior, and some on the inferior surface, whUe others occupy the borders of the organ. They terminate in the lateral and petrosal sinuses.