454 SPINAL CORD. grey substance of the interior.* These two fissures divide the me- dulla spinalis into two lateral cords, which are connected to each other by the white commissure which forms the bottom of the an- terior fissure, and by a commissure of grey matter situated behind the former. On either side of the posterior median fissure is a slight line which bounds on each side the posterior median columns. These columns are most apparent at the upper part of the cord, in the medulla oblongata, where they have received the name of pos- terior pyramids. Two other lines are observed on the medulla, the anterior and posterior lateral sulci, corresponding with the attachment of the an- terior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior lateral sulcus is a mere trace, marked only by the attachment of the fila- ments of the anterior roots. The posterior lateral sulcus is more evident, and is a narrow greyish line, derived from the grey sub- stance of the interior. Although these fissures and sulci indicate a division of the spinal cord into three pairs of columns, namely, anterior, lateral, and pos- terior, the posterior median columns being regarded as part of the posterior columns, it is customary to consider each half of the spinal cord as consisting of two columns only, antero-lateral and posterior. The antero-lateral columns are the columns of motion, and compre- hend all that part of the cord situated between the anterior median * According to some anatomists there exists a posterior white commissure at the bottom of the posterior median fissure. TMs is not a settled poiat. t Sections of the spinal cord. After Arnold, a. Section made across the lower part of the corpora ohvaria. 1,1. Corpora pyramidaHa. 2. Anterior median fissure. 3. Corpus ohvare; in the section of which the zig-zag out- line of the corpus dentatum is seen. 4. Corpus restiforme. 5. Grey sub- stance of the corpus restiforme. 6. Corpora pyramidaHa posteriora. 7. Floor of the fourth ventricle. B. Section made between the third and fourth cervical nerves. 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Indentation corresponding in situation with the posterior median fissure, which latter is not distinguishable at this part of the cord. 3, 3. Antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. 4, 4. Posterior columns. 5. Anterior cornu of grey matter. 6. Its posterior cornu, terminating at, 7, the sulcus lateralis posterior. 8. Isthmus connecting the grey matter of the two sides of the cord. Fig. 163.t A B