196 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. Actions.—The genio-liyo-glossus muscle effects several movements of the tongue. "When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its original position. The whole length of the muscle acting upon the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered convex from before backwards by the linguales. The hyo- glossi, by drawing down the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato- glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. Thus tfie whole of the complicated movements of the tongue may be explained, by reasoning upon the dii'ection of the fibres of the muscles, and their probable actions. The palato-glossi muscles, assisted by the uvula, have the power of closing the fauces completely, an action which takes place in deglutition. Fifth Group.—Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior. Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection.—To dissect the pharynx, the trachea and oesophagus are to be cut through at the lower part of the neck, and drawTi up- wards by dividing the loose cellular tissue which connects the pharynx to the vertebral column. The saw is then to be applied behind the styloid processes, and the base of the skull sawn through. The vessels and loose structures should be removed from the preparation, and the pharynx stuffed with tow or wool for the purpose of distend- ing it, and rendering the muscles more easy of dissection. The pharynx is invested by a proper pharyngeal fascia. The Constrictor inferior, the thickest of the three muscles, arises from the cricoid cartilage, and the oblique line of the thyroid. Its fibres spread out and are inserted into the middle line of the pharynx, the inferior fibres being almost horizontal, the superior oblique and overlapping the middle constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column, longus colli, sheath of the common carotid artery, steruo-thyroid muscle, thyi-oid gland, and some lymphatic glands. By its internal surface with the middle constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pha- ryngeus, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. By its lower bor- der, near the cricoid cartilage, it is in relation with the recurrent nerve; and by the upper border with the superior laryngeal nerve. The fibres of origin of this muscle are blended with those of the