215 MULTIPIDUS SPIN^.—INTERSPINALES. fills up the concavity between the spinous and transverse processes, the whole length of the vertebral column. The MuLTiPiDUS Spinje, consisting of about twenty-two small muscular fasciculi, extends along the vertebral groove from the sacrum to the axis. The muscle commences by tendinous fibres, on the dorsum of the sacrum, proceeding from the lateral tubercles of the sacrum and even from the lateral cornu of the coccyx, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards to the spinous tubercles. The fasciculi arise inferiorly from the sacrum, ilium, and tendon of the erector spinse; in the lumbar region from the articular and pos- terior transverse processes of the vertebrae; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes; and in the cervical region from the articular processes of the four inferior vertebrae. They are inserted into the spinous processes and laminae of all the vertebrae from the sacrum to the axis. Of the twenty-two fasciculi, six are lumbar, twelve dorsal, and four cervical. Each fasciculus, separate belov/, spreads out as it ascends, and passing over the next vertebra is inserted into the four or five following. The muscle is thick in- feriorly ; and the uppermost fasciculus is larger than those which it succeeds. Under the name of rotatores dorsi, expressive of their action, Theile has described eleven pairs of small muscles, which appear to belong tjo the multifidus spin^, though separated from it by cellular tissue. The rotatores arise from the apex and upper border of a transverse process; to be inserted into the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra above, as far as the base of the spinous pro- cess. The inferior rotatores are somewhat larger than the superior. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis dorsi, and semi-spinalis colli. By its deep surface with the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebral column, and in the cervical region with the ligamentum nuchae. The Interspinales are small muscular slips arranged in pairs and situated between the spinous processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region there are six pairs of these muscles, the first being placed between the axis and third vertebrae, the sixth between the last cervical and first dorsal; they are attached to the apices of the spinous processes, and are separated by the interspinous ligaments. In the dorsal region, rudiments of these muscles are occasionally met with between the upper and lower vertebrae, but are absent in the rest. In the lumbar region there are six pairs of interspinales, the first pair occupying the interspinous space between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, the last the space between the fifth lumbar and sacrum. They are thin, broad, and imperfectly de- veloped. Rudimentary iaterspuiales are occasionally met with be- tween the lower pai*t of the sacrum and the coccyx; these are the analogues of the caudal muscles of brutes ; in man they have been named collectively the extensor coccygis (sacro-coccygeus posticus).