Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. each Volume. AGGREGATE SAXiE—61,000 COPIES. "We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the Medical Profession, by the Series of beautifcd and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint."—British and FoeeiGtIT Medical Eeview. " Each volume of the Series of useful and practical Manuals published by Mr. 'Churchill, really constitutes a most elaborate treatise on the science to wliich it is devoted. A Manual is not now the light, sketchy synopsis of a subject, which it was in days of yore,"—Medical Gazette. A Manual of Materia Medica and Therapeutics^ Including the Preparations of tlie Pharmacopoeias of London, Edinlmrgh, and Dublin, with many new Medicines. By J. Forbes EoYLE, M.D., F R.S., Professor of Materia Medica and Thera- peutics, King's College, London. Second Edition, with numerous Engravings on Wood. t "Dr. Eoyle's Manual, while it has the convenience of being in a portable form, contains as much matter as would fill two volumes in large type." Medical Gazette. A Manual of Chemistry, By G. FowNES, Ph. D., F.R.S. Fifth Edition, with numerous Illustrations on Wood. "An admirable exposition of the present state of chemical science, simply and clearly written, and displaying a thorough practical knowledge of its details, as well as a profound acquaintance with its principles. The illustra- 'tions, and the whole getting up of the book merit our highest praise." Beitish and Foeeign Medical Review. A System of Practical Surgery. By William Fergusson, F.R.S., Professor of Surgery in King's College, London, &c. &c. Third Edition, with numerous Illus- trations on Wood. " What a mass of valuable information respecting some of the most im- portant points in surgery, Mr. Fergusson has contrived to compress within very moderate limits. It is scarcely necessary to say, that we deem Mr. Fergusson's work to be very valuable, and practically useful; and the present treatise cannot but enhance the reputation of its author as a judicious and experienced practitioner."—Beitish and Foreign Medical Eeview.