STRUCTURE OP THE CORNEA. 526 is rendered opaque by the same immersion. To expose this mem- brane, Dr. Jacob suggests that the eye should be placed in water for six or eight days, and then, that all the opaque cornea should be removed layer after layer. Another character of the cornea elastica is its great elasticity, which causes it to roll up when divided or torn, in the same manner as the capsule of the lens. The use of this layer, according to Dr. Jacob, is to "preserve the requisite perma- nent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper." The opacity of the cornea, produced by pressure on the globe, results from the infiltration of fluid into the cellular tissue connect- ing its layers. This appearance cannot be produced in a sound living eye, although a small quantity of serous fluid (liquor cornese) is said to occupy the areolae of the cellular tissue. Dissection.—The sclerotic and cornea are now to be dissected away from the second tunic; this, with care, may be easily performed, the only firm connexions subsisting between them being at the circum- ference of the iris, the entrance of the optic nerve, and the perfora- tion of the ciliary nerves and arteries. Pinch up a fold of the sclerotic near its anterior circumference, and make a small opening through it, then raise the edge of the tunic, and with a pair of fine scissors, having a probe point, divide the entire circumference of the sclerotic, and cut it away bit by bit. Then separate it from its at- . tachment around the circumference of the iris by a gentle pressure with the edge of the knife. The dissection of the eye must be conducted under water. In the course of this dissection, the ciliary nerves and long ciliary arteries will be seen passing forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, to be distributed to the iris. Second tunic.—The second tunic of the eyeball is formed by the choroid, ciliary ligament, and iris, the ciliary processes being an appendage developed from its inner surface. The Choroid^' is a vascular membrane of a rich chocolate-brown colour upon its external surface, and of a deep black colour within. It is connected to the sclerotic externally, by an extremely fine cellular tissue (membrana fusca), and by nerves and vessels. Internally it is in simple contact with the third tunic of the eye, the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected anteriorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and with * The word choroid has been very much abused in anatomical language; it was originally applied to the membrane of the foetus called chorion, from the Greek word xopi-ov domiciUum, that membrane being, as it were, the abode or receptacle of the foetus. Xopiov comes from x^^P^^^ to take or receive. Now it so happens that the chorion in the ovum is a vascular mem- brane of peculiar structure. Hence the term choroid, ^opiov etfios like the chorion, has been used indiscriminately to signify vascular structures, as in the choroid membrane of the eye, the choroid plexus, &c., and we find Cru- veUhier, in his work on Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 463, saying in a note, " Choroide est synonyme de vasculeuse."