91 OS MAGNUM.—UNCIPORME, - cular surfaces is divided by a slight ridge into -two facets; the other two converge, and meet at a flattened angle.* One of the free sur- faces, the dorsal, is rough and triangular; the other, palmar, also tri- angular, but somewhat smaller, gives origin to the unciform process. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the articular surface with two facets look upwards, and the unciform process backwards (towards the holder), the concavity of the unciform process will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With_/?ve bones; by the two facets on its base, with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones; by the two lateral articu- lating surfaces, with the magnum and cuneiforme; Und by the flat- tened angle of its apex, with the semilunare. Attachments.—To two muscles, adductor minimi digiti, and flexor brevis minimi digiti; and by the hook-shaped process to the annu- lar ligament. Development.—The bones of the carpus are each developed by a single centre; they are cartilagi- nous at jbirth. Ossification com- mences towards the end of the first year in the os magnum and unci- forme; at the end of the third year, in the cuneiforme; during the fifth year, in the trapezium and semilunare; during the eighth, in the scaphoides; ninth, in the trapezoides; and twelfth, in the pisiforme. The latter bone is the last in the skeleton to ossify; it is, in reality, a sesamoid bone of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The number of articulations which each bone of the carpus pre- sents with surrounding bones may be expressed in figures, which will be found to facilitate very materially the student's recollection; the number for the first row is 5531, and for the second 4475. * Wlien the unciforme does not articulate with the semilunare, this angle is sharp. t The hand viewed on its anterior or palmar aspect. 1. The scaphoid bone. 2. The semilunare. 3. The cuneiforme. 4. The pisiforme. 5. The trapezium. 6. The groove in the trapezium which lodges the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. 7. The trapezoides. 8. The os magnum. 9. The unciforme. 10, 10. The five metacarpal bones. 11, 11. The first row of phalanges. 12,12. The second row. 13, 13. The third row, or ungual phalanges. 14. The first phalanx of the thumb. 15. The second and last phalanx of the thumb. Fig. 50.t