135 LiaAMENTS OP THE STERNUM. -( fasciculi corresponding with, the breadth of the cartilage, and con- necting its superior and inferior border with the side of the sternum. The synovial membrane is absent in the articulation of the first rib, its cartilage being usually continuous with the sternum ; that of the second rib has an interarticular ligament, with two synovial membranes. The sixth and seventh ribs have several fasciculi of strong liga- mentous fibres, passing from the extremity of their cartilages to the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, which latter they are in- tended to support. They are named the costo-xyphoid ligaments. The sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the fifth and the ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a perfect synovial membrane at each articulation. They are connected by ligamentous fibres (ligamenta corr%iscantia), which pass from one cartilage to the other, external and internal ligaments. The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremities by liga- mentous fibres, but have no synovial membranes. Actions.—The movements of the costo-sternal articulations are very trifling, being limited to a slight degree of sliding motion. The first rib is the least, the second the most movable. 8. Articulation of the Stermim.—The pieces of the sternum are connected by means of a thin plate of interosseous cartilage placed between each, and by an anterior and posterior ligament (membrana ossium sterni). The fibres of the anterior sternxil ligament are longitudinal in direction, but so blended with the anterior costo- sternal ligaments and tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoral muscles, as scarcely to be distinguished as a distinct ligament. The posterior sternal ligament is a broad smooth plane of longitudinal fibres, placed on the posterior surface of the bone, and extending from the manubrium to the ensiform cartilage. These ligaments contribute very materially to the strength of the sternum and elas- ticity of the front of the chest; their continuation downwards on the ensiform cartilage constitutes the sterno-xyphoid ligaments. 9. Articulation of the Vertebral Column toith the Pelvis.—The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the same ligaments with which the various vertebrae are connected to each other ; vi^;., anterior and posterior common ligament, intervertebral substance, ligamenta subflava, capsular ligaments, inter and supra- spinous ligament. There are, however, t^oo proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the pelvis ; these are, the Lumbo-sacral, Lumbo-iliac. The lumbosacral or sacro-vertebral ligament is sl thick triangular fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, connected above with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and below with the posterior part of the upper border of the sacrum.