269 KECTUS PEMORIS,—CRUREUS. cular line, drawn from the middle of the base to the apex of this triangle, immediately overlies the femoral artery with its sheath. The Rectus pemoris (straight) is fusiform in its shape and bipen- niform in the disposition of its fibres. It arises by two round tendons, one from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the other from the upper lip of the acetabulum; and is inserted by a broad and strong tendon into the upper border of the patella. It is more correct to consider the patella as a sesamoid bone, developed within the tendon of the rectus; and the ligamentum patellse as the continuation of the tendon to its insertion into the tubercle of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus medius, psoas and iliacus, sartorius; and for the lower three-fourths of its extent, with the fascia lata. By its deep surface with the capsule of the hip-joint, external circumflex vessels, crureus, vastus internus and externus. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside, to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The three next muscles are generally considered collectively under the name of triceps extensor cruris. Adopting this view, the muscle surrounds the whole of the femur, excepting the rough line (linea aspera), on its posterior aspect. Its division into three parts is not well delfined; the fleshy mass upon each side being distinguished by the names of vastus internus and externus, the middle portion by that of crureus. The Vastus externus (extensor cruris externus), narrow below and btoad above, arises from the base of the trochanter major, the outer surface of the femur, outer lip of the linea aspera, and inter- muscular fascia; it passes down to be inserted into the outer border of the patella, or rather by means of the ligamentum patella into the tubercle of the tibia conjointly with the rectus and two following muscles. Relations.—'Qj \i% superficial surface with the fascia lata, rectus, biceps, semi-membranosus, and gluteus maximus, a synovial bursa being interposed between it and the latter. By its dee'p surface with the crureus and femur. The Vastus internus (extensor cruris internus), broad below and na.rrow above, arises from the anterior intertrochanteric line, inner surface of the femur, inner lip of the linea aspera and intermuscular fascia, and is inserted into the inner border of the patella. By its mesial border it is blended with the crureus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sartorius, femoral artery and vein and saphenous nerve, pectineus, adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and fascia lata. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. The Crureus (crus, the leg) arises from the anterior intertro- chanteric line and anterior surface of the femur to within two inches