171 CRANIAL GROUP. 1. Cranial growp.—Occipito-frontalis. Dissection.—The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a longitudinal incision along the vertex of the head, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the root of the nose ; and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of the head, to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dissect the integument and super- ficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at the anterior angle of the flap, where the muscular fibres are thickest, and remove it altogether. This dissection requires care; for the muscle is very thin and without attention would be raised with the integument. There is no deep fascia on the face or head, nor is it required; for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones, upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the sup- port is derived^ from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and which forms for each a distinct sheath. The Occipito-frontalis (epicranius) is a broad musculo-aponeu- rotic layer, which covers the whole side of the vertex of the skull, from the occiput to the eyebrow. It arises by tendinous fibres from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Its insertion takes place by means of the blending of the fibres of its anterior portion with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and pyramidalis nasi. The muscle is fleshy in front over the frontal bone (frontalis) and behind over , thej occipital (occipitalis), the two portions being connected by a broad aponeurosis. The two muscles together with their apo- neurosis cover the whole vertex of the skull, hence their designation galea capitis; they are loosely adherent to the pericranium, but very closely to the integument, particularly on the forehead. On the sides of the head the aponeurosis (galea aponeurotica) is attached to the root of the mastoid process and processus auditorius, and becoming thin over the temporal fascia is connected with the zygoma, malar bone, and external boundary of the orbit. Relations.—This muscle is in relation by its external surface with the frontal and supraorbital vessels, supraorbital and facial nerve, temporal vessels and auriculo-temporal nerve, occipital vessels and nerves, and integument, to which it is closely adherent. Its under surface is attached to the pericranium by a loose cellular tissue which admits of considerable movement. Action.—To raise the eyebrows, thereby throwing the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. Some persons have the power of moving the entire scalp upon the pericranium by means of these muscles. 2. Orhital growp.—Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi.