OS PUBIS. 96 notcli of large size, the great sacro-ischiafic, and below the spine, the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch; the former, being converted into a fora- men by the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, gives passage to the pyri- formis muscle, the gluteal vessels and nerve, pudic vessels and nerve, and ischiatic vessels and nerves; the lesser, completed by the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, to the obturator internus muscle, and in- ternal pudic vessels and nerve. The inferior border is thick and broad, and called the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is divided into three facets; one anterior, which is rough for the origin of the semi-membranosus ; and two posterior, which are smooth and separated by a slight ridge, for the semi-tendinosus and biceps muscle. The inner margin of the tuberosity is bounded by a sharp ridge, which gives attachment to a prolongation of the great sacro-ischiatic liga- ment, and the outer margin by a prominent ridge, from which the quadratus femoris muscle arises. The suioerior border of the ischium is thin, and forms the lower circumference of the obturator foramen. The ramus of the ischium is continuous with the ramus of the pubes, and is slightly everted. The OS PUBIS is divided into a horizontal portion or body (hori- zontal ramus of Albinus), and a descending portion or ramus; it pre- sents for examination an external and internal surface, a superior and inferior border, and a symphysis. The external surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles; and prominent at its outer extremity, where it forms part of the aceta- bulum. The internal surface is smooth, and enters into the forma- tion of the cavity of the pelvis. The superior border is marked by a rough ridge, the crest; the inner termination of the crest is the angle; and the outer end, the spine or tubercle. Running outwards from the spine is a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, or linea ilio-pee- tinea, which marks the brim of the true pelvis. In front of the pec- tineal line is a smooth depression, which supports the femoral artery and vein, and a little more externally an elevated prominence, the ilio-pectineal eminence, which divides the surface for the femoral vessels from another depression which overhangs the acetabulum, and lodges the psoas and iliacus muscles. The ilio-pectineal emi- nence, moreover, marks the junction of the pubes with the ilium. The inferior border is broad, deeply grooved for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve, and sharp upon the side of the ramus, to form part of the boundary of the obturator foramen. The sym- physis is the inner extremity of the body of the bone; it is oval and rough, for the attachment of a ligamentous structure analogous to the intervertebral substance. The ramus of the pubes descends obliquely outwards, and is continuous with the ramus of the ischium. The inner border of the ramus forms with the corresponding bone the arch of the pubes, and at its inferior part is considerably everted, to afford attachment to the crus penis. The acetabulum (cavitas cotyloidea) is a deep cup-shaped cavity, situated at the point of union between the ilium, ischium, and pubes;