THE TRACHEA. 583 dissected from the interior of the larynx it is found covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which latter is attached to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament below; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small follicular glands, which are situated in the sub-mucous tissue, and give to its external surface a rough and ill-dissected appearance. The secretion from these glands is intended for the lubrication of the chordae vocales, and is directed upon them by two small valvular folds of mucous membrane, which are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. The mucous membrane is closely connected to the epiglottis and to the chordae vocales, on the latter being remarkable for its thinness. It is invested by a columnar ciliated epithelium as high up as the superior folds of the ventricle of the larynx and lower half of the epiglottis. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with an abundance of mucous glands; many of these are situated on the epiglottis, in the sacculus laryngis, and in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, where they are termed arytenoid. The body known as the epiglottic gland is merely a mass of cellular and adipose tissue, situated in the triangular space between the front surface of the apex of the epiglottis, the hyo-epiglottidean and the thyro-hyoidean Hgament, Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nerves are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumo- gastric. The two nerves communicate with each other freely; but the superior laryngeal is distributed principally to the mucous mem- brane at the entrance of the larynx; the recurrent, to the muscles. THE TRACHEA. The Trachea or wind-pipe is cylindrical for about two-thirds of its circumference, and flattened on the posterior third, where it rests on the oesophagus ; it extends from opposite the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The length of the trachea is about four inches, and its diameter from side to side nearly an inch ; it is somewhat larger in the male than in the female. The right bronchus, larger than the left, passes off nearly at right angles, to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends obliquely, and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. It is composed of cartilaginous rings, fibrous membrane, muscular fibres, fibres of elastic fibrous tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. The Cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty in number, and extend for two-thirds around its cylinder, being deficient at the