PHARYNX. —(ESOPHAGUS. 602 Upon its anterior part it has opening into it seven foramina, viz.— Posterior nares, two, _ j Eustachian tubes, two, Mouth, Larynx, (Esophagus. The Posterior nares (choanse narium) are the two large open- ings at the upper and front part of the pharynx. On each side of these openings, and parallel with the posterior termination of the inferior turbinated bone, is the slit-like opening in the mucous membrane, marking the entrance of the Eustachian tube. Beneath the posterior nares is the isthmus faucium, the large opening into the mouth, partly veiled by the soft palate; and, beneath the root of the tongue, the cordiform opening of the larynx (aditus ad glossidem). The esophageal open- ing is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx. (Esophagus.—The oesophagus (oittv, to bear, (pdynv, to eat) is a slightly flexuous canal, inclining to the left in the neck, to the right in the upper part of the thorax,'!' and again to the left in its course through the posterior mediastinum ; it commences at the termina- tion of the pharynx, opposite the lower border of the cricoid carti- lage and fifth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck behind, and rather to the left of the trachea. It then passes behind the arch of the aorta and left bronchus, and along the posterior mediastinum, lying in front of the thoracic aorta, to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm, where it enters the abdomen, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach opposite the ninth or tenth dorsal vertebra. The oesophagus is flattened and narrow in the cervical * The pharynx laid open from behind. 1. A section carried transversely through the base of the skuU. 2, 2. The walls of the pharynx drawn to each side. 3, 3. Posterior nares, separated by the vomer. 4. Extremity of the Eustachian tube of one side. 5. Soft palate. 6. Posterior pillar of the soft palate. 7. Anterior piUar; the tonsil is seen in the niche between the two pillars. 8. Eoot of the tongue, partly concealed by the uvula. 9. Epiglottis, overhanging (10) the cordiform opening of the larynx. 11. Posterior part of the larynx. 12. Opening into the oesophagus. 13. External surface of the oesophagus. 14. Trachea. t Cruveilhier remarks that this inflexion explains the obstruction which a bougie sometimes meets with, in its passage along the oesophagus, opposite the first rib.