MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 608 left ureter ; one or two convolutions of the small intestine are inter- posed between the front of the rectum and the bladder, in the male; and between the rectum and the uterus with its appendages, in the female. The second portion, about three inches in length, is closely attached to the surface of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only in front; it is in relation by its lower part with the base of the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and prostate gland; and in the female with the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from opposite the prostate gland and tip of the coccyx to terminate at the anus ; it is embraced by the levatores ani, and is about one inch and a half in length. It is separated from the membranous portion of the urethra by a triangular space; in the female this space intervenes between the vagina and the rectum, and constitutes by its base the perineum. The Anus is situated at a little more than an inch in front of the extremity of the coccyx. The integument around it is covered with hairs, and is thrown into numerous radiated plaits which are obli- terated during the passage of faeces. The margin of the anus is provided with an abundance of sebiparous glands, and the epiderma may be seen terminating by a fringed and scalloped border, at a few lines above the extremity of the opening. STRUCTURE 0¥ THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The pharynx has three coats; a mucous coat, a fibrous coat, de- rived from the pharyngeal fascia, and a muscular layer. The oesophagus has three coats, the mucous, cellular, and muscular. The stomach and intestines have four, mticous, cellular, muscular, and an external serous investment, derived from the peritoneum. Mucous Coat.—The mucous membrane of the mouth invests the whole internal surface of that cavity, and is reflected along the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual ducts, into the corresponding glands. It terminates anteriorly upon the outer margin of the red border of the lips, and posteriorly is continuous with the mucous lining of the pharynx. The mucous membrane of the pharynx, paler than that of the mouth, is continuous with the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, nares, mouth, and larynx. In the oesophagus the mucous membrane is thinner and more dense than that of the pharynx, pale red above and whitish below. It is provided with a few scattered papillse, is firmly connected with the cellular coat, and disposed in longitudinal plicce. In the stomach the mucous membrane is thin at the great extre- mity, and thicker towards the pyloric extremity. It is of a pinkish colour, the depth of colour being greater in infancy than in the adult, and less in old age ; and increased under the excitement of digestion. It is, moreover, formed into plaits or rugce, which are disposed for the most part in a longitudinal direction. The rugae are most numerous towards the lesser end of the stomach; while