489 MEDIAN NERVE. and brachialis anticus in the upper arm, and the integument of the outer side of the forearm as far as the wrist and hand. The Internal cutaneous nerve, one of the internal and smaller branches of the axillary plexus, arises from the plexus in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and passes down the inner side of the arm in company with the basilic vein, giving off several cutaneous filaments in its course. At about the middle of the upper arm it pierces the deep fascia by'the side of the basilic vein and divides into two branches, external and internal. The external branch, the larger of the two, divides into several branches which pass ia front of, and sometimes behind, the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, and descend in the course of the pal- maris longus muscle to the wrist, distributing filaments to the inte- gument in their course and communicating with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneouson the outer side, and its own internal branch on the inner side of the forearm. The internal branch sends off several twigs to the integument over the inner condyle and olecranon, passes behind the inner condyle, and descends the fore-arm in the course of the ulnar vein as far as the wrist, supplying the integument of the inner side of the forearm, and communicating with the ex- ternal branch of the same nerve in front, and the dorsal branch of th^ ulnar nerve on the wrist. The Lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg, the smallest of the brachial nerves, arises with the preceding from the inner cord of the plexus, and issuing from beneath the axillary vein, descends the inner side of the arm, to the middle of its poste- rior aspect, where it pierces the fascia and is distributed to the in- tegument of the lower third of the upper arm as far as the olecranon. While in the axilla, the nerve of Wrisberg communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and sometimes its place is taken by the latter. The Median nerve, named from its median position in the arm and forearm, arises by two heads which proceed from the outer and inner cords of the plexus and embrace the axillary artery. The nerve lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, but crosses it in the middle, sometimes in front and sometimes behind, and get- ting to its inner side descends to the bend of the elbow. It next passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres and beneath the flexor sublimis digitorum, and runs down the middle of the fore- arm, lying between the latter muscle and the flexor profundus to the wrist. It then dips beneath the annular ligament and enters the palm of the hand. Just above the wrist it is superficial, lying by the outer border of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The Branches of the median nerve are,— Muscular, Superficial palmar, Anterior interosseous, Digital.