TABLE OF DEVELOPMENTS, ARTICULATIONS, ETC. 55 inferior dental artery and nerve into the dental canal. Bounding this opening is a sharp margin, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament, and passing downwards from the opening a narrow groove which lodges the mylo-hyoidean nerve with a small artery and vein. To the uneven surface above and in front of the inferior dental foramen, is attached the temporal muscle, and to that below it, the internal pterygoid. The internal surface of the neck of the condyle gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle ; and the angle to the stylo-maxillary ligament. Development.—By tioo centres; one for each lateral half, the two sides meeting at the symphisis, where they become united. The lower jaw is the earliest of the bones of the skeleton to exhibit ossification, with the exception of the clavicle; ossific union of the symphisis takes place during the first year. Articulations.—With the glenoid fossse of the two temporal bones, through the medium of a fibro-cartilage. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen pairs ; by the external sur- face, commencing at the symphisis and proceeding outwards, levator labii inferioris, depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, pla- tysma myoides, buccinator, and masseter; by the internal surface, also commencing at the symphisis, the genio-hyo-glossus, genio- hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus, digastricus, superior constrictor, temporal, external pterygoid, and internal pterygoid. TABLE SHOWING THE POINTS OP DEVELOPMENT, ARTICULATIONS, AND ; ATTACHMENT OP MUSCLES, OP THE BONES OP THE HEAD. Development. Articulation. Attachment of Muscles. Occipital. 7 6 13 pairs. Pairietal . 1 5 1 muscle. Frontal . 2 12 2 pairs. Temporal 5 5 14 muscles. Sphenoid. 12 12 12 pairs. Ethmoid . 3 13 none. Nasal 1 4 none. Superior maxillary 4 9 10 muscles. Lachrymal 1 4 1 ib. Malar . 1 4 5 ib. Palate 1 6 4 ib. Inferior turbinated 1 4 none. Vomer 1 6 none. Lower jaw 2 2 14 pairs. SUTURES. The bones of the cranium and face are connected with each other by means of sutures (sutura, a seam), of which there are four prin- cipal varieties: serrated, squamous, harmonia, and schindylesis.