80 SCAPULA, very rough prominence, which gives attachment to the rhomboid ligament; and at the other extremity a rough tubercle and ridge, Fig. 44.* for the coraco-clavicular ligament. The opening for the nutritious vessels is seen upon the under surface of th6 bone. Development.—By two centres; one for the shaft and one for the sternal extremity; the former appearing before any other bone of the skeleton, the latter between fifteen and eighteen. Articulations.—With the sternum and scapula. Attachment ofMttscles.—To six: sterno-cleido-mastoid, trapezius, pectoralis major, deltoid, subclavius, and stemo-hyoid. Scapula.—The scapula is a flat triangular bone, situated on the posterior aspect and side of the thorax, and occupying the space from the second to the seventh rib. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior surface; superior, inferior, and posterior border; anterior, superior, and inferior angle; and processes. The anterior surface, or subscapular fossa, is concave and irre- gular, and marked by several oblique ridges which have a direction upwards and outwards. The whole concavity is occupied by the sub- scapularis muscle, with the exception of a small triangular portion near the superior angle. The posterior surface, or dorsum, is convex, and unequally divided into two portions by the spine; that portion above the spine is the supra-spinous fossa; and that below, the infra- spinous fossa. The superior border is the shortest of the three; it is thin and concave, terminated at one extremity by the superior angle, and at the other by the coracoid process. At its humeral end, and formed partly by the base of the coracoid process, is the supra-scapular notch, for the transmission of the supra-scapular nerve. The inferior or axillanj border is thick, and marked by several grooves and depressions ; it terminates superiorly at the glenoid cavity, and inferiorly at the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough ridge, which gives origin to the long head * The clavicle of the right side; its upper and anterior face. 1. The sternal end. 2. The portion which articulates with the first rib. 3, 3. The ridge of attachment of the pectoraUs major. 4. The scapular end. 5. The surface of articulation with the acromion. 6, 6. The ridge for the attachment of the deltoid. 7, 7. The line of origin of the trapezius. 8, The line of origin of the sterno-mastoid.