81 SCAPULA. , of the triceps muscle. Upon the posterior surface of this border is a depression for the teres minor; and upon its anterior surface a deeper groove for the teres major; near the in- ferior angle is a project- ing lip, which increases the surface of origin of the latter muscle. The posterior border or base, the longest of the three, is turned towards the vertebral column. It is intermediate in thickness between the superior and inferior, and convex. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms the A,eac? of the scapula; it is im- mediately surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck. The head presents a shallow pyriform ar- ticular surface, the gle- noid cai^ity, having the pointed extremity up- wards ; and at its apex is a rough depression, which gives attachment to the long tendon of the biceps. The superior angle is thin and pointed. The inferior angle is thick, and smooth upon the external surface for the origin of the teres major and for a large bursa over which the upper border of the latissimus dorsi muscle plays. The spine of the scapula, triangular in form, crosses the upper part of the dorsum of the bone; it commences at the posterior border by a smooth triangular surface, over which the fan-shaped tendon of the trapezius glides, and terminates at the point of the shoulder in the acromion process. At a short distance from its origin, where the triangular surface rises to the level of the spine, is a prominent tubercle, the tuberculum spincB scapulce (Retzius), which marks the * Anterior surface or venter of the scapula. 1, 1. The oblique ridges which mark the subscapular fossa. 2, 2. Surface unoccupied by the sub- scapularis muscle. 3. Superior border. 4. Superior angle. 5. Supra-scapular notch. 6. Coracoid process. 7. Acromion process. 8. Spine of the scapula; the numeral 5, while indicating the supra-scapular notch, is placed on the spine. 9. Articular surface of the acromio-clayicular joint. 10. Glenoid cavity. 11. Head of the scapula. 12. Its neck. 13, 13. Inferior border; the upper 13 is placed against the ridge of the triceps. 14. Inferior angle. 15, 15. Posterior border. 16. Projection corresponding with the origin of the spine of the scapula. Or