464 OPHTHALMIC NERVE, thalmic artery, and passing over the internal rectus, enters the ante- rior ethmoidal foramen, by which it is conducted to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. It then passes through the slit-like opening by the side of the crista galli, and descends into the nose, where it divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal * The nerves of the orbit seen from the outer side: after Arnold. 1. Sec- tion of the frontal bone; immediately behind the numeral is the frontal sinus, and in front, the integument. 2. Superior maxiUary bone; the section in front of the numeral exhibits the masaUary sinus. 3. Part of the sphenoid bone. 4. Levator palpebrae and superior rectus muscle. 5. Superior obKque muscle. 6. Inferior oblique. 7. Ocular half of the external rectus drawn forwards. 8. Orbital half of the external rectus turned downwards. On this muscle the sixth nerve is seen dividing into branches. 9. Inferior rectus. 10. Optic nerve. 11. Internal carotid artery emerging from the cavernous sinus. 12. Ophthalmic artery. 13. Third nerve. 14. Branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle. Between this and the sixth nerve (7) is seen the branch which supplies the inferior rectus; its branch to the oph- thalmic ganglion is seen proceeding from the upper side of the trunk of the nerve, at the bottom of the orbit. 15. Fourth nerve. 16. Trunk of the fifth nerve. 17. Casserian ganghon. 18. Ophthalmic nerve. 19. Superior max- iUary nerve. 20. Inferior maxillary nerve. 21. Frontal nerve. 22. Its division into branches to supply the integument of the forehead. 23. La- chrymal nerve. 24. Nasal nerve; the small nerve seen in the bifurcation of the nasal and frontal, is one of the branches of the upper division of the third nerve. 25. Nasal nerve passing over the internal rectus muscle to the anterior ethmoidal foramen. 26. Infra-trochlear nerve. 27. A long ciliary branch of the nasal; another long cihary branch is seen proceeding from the lower aspect of the nerve. 28. Long root of the ophthalmic ganghon, proceeding from the nasal nerve, and receiving the sympathetic root which joins it at an acute angle. 29. Ophthalmic ganglion, giving off from its fore-part, the short ciUary nerves. 30. Grlobe of the eye.