248 ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. major, and latissimus dorsi; and externally with the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve. Actions.—The triceps brachii is an extensor of the forearm. Anterior Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Pronator radii teres, Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longns, Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor carpi ulnaris. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by making an incision through the integument along the middle line of the fore- arm, crossing each extremity by a transverse incision, and turning aside the flaps. The superficial and deep fascia are then to be removed. The Pronator radii teres arises by two heads: one from the inner condyle of the humerus, fascia of the forearm, and intermus- cular septum; the other from the coronoid process of the ulna; the median nerve passing between them. Its tendon is flat, and is inserted into the middle third of the obKque ridge of the radius. The two heads of this muscle are best examined by cutting through that which arises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head will then be seen with the median nerve lying across it. Relaticms.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, radial artery and veins, and radial nerve. By its posterior surface with the brachialis anticus, flexor sublimis digitorum, ulnar artery and veins, and the median nerve after it has passed between the two heads of the muscle. By its upper border it forms the inner boundary of the triangular space, in which the termination of the brachial artery is situated. By its loioer border it is in relation with the flexor carpi radialis. The Flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle, deep fascia and intermuscular septa. Its tendon passes through a groove in the trapezium bone, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Relations.—By its anterior smface with the deep fascia of the foreaiin, and at the wrist with the tendinous canal through which its tendon passes. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, wrist-joint, and groove in the tra- pezium bone. By its outer border with the pronator radii teres, radial artery and veins. By its inner border mth the palmaris longus. The tendon is surrounded by synovial membrane where it plays through the tendinous canal of the wrist.