INTERNAL EAR—COCHLEA. 548 the cul de sac of the meatas auditorius internus. It consists of an osseous and gradually tapering canal, about one inch and a half in length, which makes two turns and a half spirally around a central axis, called the modiolus. The central axis, or modiolus, is large near its base, where it cor- responds with the first turn of the cochlea, and diminishes in diameter towards its extremity. At its base, it is pierced by numerous minute openings, which transmit the filaments of the cochlear nerve. These openings are disposed in a spiral manner; hence they have received, from Cotunnius* the name of tractus spiralis foraminulentus. The modiolus is everywhere traversed, in the direction of its length, by minute canals, which proceed from the tractus spiralis foraminu- lentus, and terminate upon the sides of the modiolus, by opening into the canal of the cochlea or upon the surface of its lamina spiralis. The central canal of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus is larger than the rest, and is named the tubulus centralis modioli; it is continued onwards to the ex- tremity of the modio- lus, and transmits a nerve and small artery (arteria centralis mo- dioli). The interior of the canal of the cochlea is partially divided into two passages (sca- Isb) by means of a thin and porous lamina of bone (zonula ossea la- minae spiralis), which is wound spirally around the modiolus in the direction of the canal. The bony septum extends for about two-thirds across the diameter of the canal, and in * Dominico Cotunnius, an ItaKan physician; his dissertation " De Aquse- ductibus Auris Humanse Internse" was pubhshed at Naples in 1761, t The cochlea divided parallel with its axis, through the centre of the modiolus. After Breschet. 1. Modiolus. 2. Infundibulum in which the modiolus terminates. 3, 3. Cochlear nerve, sending its filaments through the centre of the modiolus. 4, 4. Scala tympani of the first turn of the cochlea. 5, 5. Scala vestibuli of the first turn; the septum between 4 and 5 is the lamina spiraHs; a filament of the cochlear nerve is seen passing between the layers of the lamina to be distributed upon the membrane which invests the lamina. 8. Loops formed by the filaments of the cochlear nerve on the lamina spiralis. 9, 9. Scala tympani of the second turn of the cochlea. 10, 10. Scala vestibuli of the second turn; the septum between the two is the lamina spiralis. 11. The remaining half turn of the scala vestibuH; the dome placed over this hah" turn is the cupola; a hne leads from the numeral to the remaining half turn of the scala tympani. The lamina of bone which forms the floor of the scala vestibuK curves spirally round to constitute the in- fundibulum (2). 14. The helicotrema through which a bristle is passed; its lower eiSremity issues from the scala tympani of the middle turn of the cochlea. The hamulu laminae spiralis is seen in front of the bristle. Fig. 187.t