DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH. 71 the fifth month the anterior of these cavities of reserve dilate at their distal extremities, and a fold or papilla projects into their fundus, constituting the rudiment of the germ of the permanent tooth; at the same time two small opercular folds are produced at their proximal or small extremities, and convert them into true dental sacs. During the fifth month the posterior part of the primitive dental groove behind the sac of the last deciduous tooth has remained open, and in it has developed the papilla and follicle of the first permanent molar. Upon the closure of this follicle by its opercula, the secondary dental groove upon the summit of its crown forms a large cavity of reserve, lying in contact with the dental sac on the one side and with the gum on the superficial side. At this period the deciduous teeth, and the sacs of the ten anterior per- manent teeth, increase so much in size, without a corresponding lengthening of the jaws, that the first permanent molars are gra- dually pressed backwards and upwards into the maxillary tuberosity in the upper jaw, and into the base of the coronoid process of the lower jaw; a position which they occupy at the eighth and ninth month of foetal life. In the infant of seven or eight months, the jaws have grown in length, and the first permanent molar returns to its proper position in the dental range. The cavity of reserve, which has been previously elongated by the upward movement of the first permanent molar, now dilates into the cavity which that tooth has just quitted; a papilla is developed from its fundus, the cavity becomes constricted, and the dental sac of the second molar tooth is formed, still leaving a portion of the great cavity of reserve in connection with the superficial side of the sac. As the jaws con- tinue to grow in length, the second permanent dental sac descends from its elevated position and advances forwards into the dental range, following the same curve as the first permanent molar. The remainder of the cavity of reserve, already lengthened backwards by the previous position of the second molar, again dilates for the last time, developes a papilla and sac in the same manner as the preceding, and forms the third permanent molar or \\asdom tooth, which at the age of nineteen or twenty, upon the increased growth of the jaw, follows the course of the first and second molars into the dental range. From a consideration of the foregoing phenomena, Mr. Groodsir has divided the process of dentition into three natural stages:— follicular, saccular, and eruptive. The first, or follicular stage, he makes to include all the changes which take place from the first appearance of the dental groove and papillae to the closure of their follicles;. occupying a period which extends from the sixth week to the fourth or fifth month of intra-uterine existence. The second, or saccular stage, comprises the period when the follicles are shut sacs, and the included papillae pulps; it commences at the fourth and fifth months of intra-uterine existence, and terminates, for the median incisors, at the seventh or eighth month of infantine