409 LYMPHATICS OP THE LOWEK EXTREMITY. group of small size, situated along tlie line of Poupart's ligament, and receiving the lymphatic vessels from the parietes of the abdo- men, gluteal region, perineum, and genital organs; and an inferior group of larger glands clustered around the internal saphenous vein near its termination, and receiving the superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. The deep lymphatic glands are the anterior tibial, popliteal, deep inguinal, gluteal, and ischiatic. The Anterior tibial is generally a single gland, placed on the interosseous membrane, by the side of the anterior tibial artery in the upper part of its course. The Popliteal glands, four or five in number, and small, are embedded in the loose cellular tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The Deep inguinal glands, less numerous and smaller than the superficial, are situated near the femoral vessels in the groin, be- neath the fascia lata. The Gluteal and ischiatic glands are placed near the vessels of that name, above and below the pyriformis muscle at the great ischiatic foramen. Vessp*ls.—The Superficial lymphatic vessels are divisible into two groups, internal and external; the internal and principal group, commencing on- the dorsum and inner side of the foot, ascend the leg by the side of the internal saphenous vein, and passing behind the inner condyle of the femur follow the direction of that vein to the groin, where they join the saphenous group of superficial inguinal glands. The greater part of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia of the saphenous opening and the sheath of the femoral vessels, to join the lymphatic gland situated in the femoral ring, which serves to establish a communication between the lymphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk. The other efferent vessels pierce the fascia lata to join the deep glands. The vessels which pass upwards from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot ascend along the outer side of the leg, and curve inwards across the front of the leg just below the knee, to unite with the lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh. The external group con- sists of a few lymphatic vessels which commence on the outer side of the foot and posterior part of the ankle, and accompany the ex- ternal saphenous vein to the popliteal region, where they enter the popliteal glands. The Deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep veins, and com- municate with the various glands in their course. After joining the deep inguinal glands they pass beneath Poupart's ligament, to communicate with the numerous glands situated around the iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal region follow the course of the branches of the gluteal and ischiatic veins. The former join the glands situated on the upper border of the pyriformis muscle, and the latter, after communicating with the lymphatics of the thigh, enter the ischiatic glands.