MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 194 hyoideus; by the deep or superior smface with the lower border of the genio-hyo-glossus. The GrENio-HYO-GLOSSus (yXwo-ffa, the tongue) is a triangular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, broad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle immediately above that of the genio-hyoideus, and spreads out to be mserted into the whole length of the tongue, from its base to the apex, and into the os hyoides. ReLations.—By its inner surface with its fellow of the opposite side. By its outer surface with the mylo-hyoideus, hyo-giossus, stylo-glossus, lingualis, sublingual gland, lingual artery, and hypo- glossal nerve. By its upper border with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the frsenum linguae; by its lower border with the genio-hyoideus. Actions.—The whole of this group of muscles acts upon the os hyoides when the lower jaw is closed, and upon the lower jaw when the OS hyoides is drawn downwards and fixed by the depressors of the OS hyoides and larynx. The genio-hyo-glossus is, moreover, a muscle of the tongue; its action upon that organ will be considered with the next group. Fourth Group.—Muscles of the Tongue. Grenio-hyo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Lingualis, Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine them. The Genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been de- scribed with the last group. The Hyo-glossus is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising from the whole length of the great comu and from the body of the os hyoides; and inserted between the stylo-glossus and lingualis into the side of the tongue. The direction of the fibres of that portion of the muscle which arises from the body is obliquely backwards; and that from the great cornu obliquely forwards; hence they are described by Albinus as two muscles, under the names of basio-glossus and cerato-glossus, to which he added a third fasciculus, arising from the lesser cornu, and spreading along the side of the tongue, the chondro- glossus. The basio-glossus slightly overlaps the cerato-glossus at its upper part, and is separated from it by the transverse portion of the stylo-glossus. Relations.—By its external surface with the digastric muscle, stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, mylo-hyoideus, gustatory nerve, hypo- glossal nerve, Wharton's duct, and sublingual gland. By its internal