632 THE PANCREAS. layer, connected on one side to tlie liver, and on the other to the peritoneum. The internal or mucous coat is but loosely attached to the fibrous layer; it is everywhere raised into minute rugse, which give it a beautifully reticulated appearance ; and it forms, at the neck of the sac, a spiral valve. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining all the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus communis choledochus, with the mucous mem- brane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary ducts are, the hepatic, cystic, and ductus communis choledochus. The Hepatic duct, nearly two inches long, is formed in the trans- verse fissure of the liver by the junction of two ducts which proceed from the right and left lobes. It joins the cystic duct at an acute angle, and the common duct resulting from their union is the ductus communis choledochus. The Cystic duct, about an inch in length, passes inwards from the neck of the gall-bladder, and unites at an acute angle with the pre- ceding. The Ductus communis choledochus (%oX^ bilis,^£%o/zat recipio) is the common excretory duct of the liver and gall-bladder; it is about three inches in length, and is formed by the junction of the hepatic with the cystic duct. It descends through the right border of the lesser omentum, and behind the descending portion of the duodenum to the inner side of that intestine, where it terminates by passing obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat, and opening on the summit of a papilla which is common to it and the pancreatic duct. The papilla is situated near the lower part of the descending portion of the duodenum on its inner side ; and the duct is constricted in size during its passage between the coats of the intestine. The coats of the biliary ducts are an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous coat. The external coat is composed of a con- tractile fibrous tissue, which is probably muscular ; but its muscu- larity has not yet been demonstrated in the human subject. The mucous coat is continuous on the one hand with the lining mem- brane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and on the other with that of the duodenum. Vessels and Nerves.—The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by the cystic artery, a branch of the hepatic. Its veins return their blood into the portal vein. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a long, flattened, conglomerate gland, analogous to the salivary glands. It is about six inches in length, and be- tween three and four ounces in weight; is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and rests on the aorta, vena portse, inferior vena cava, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the left kidney and supra-renal