289 CHAPTER IV. OF THE FASCIA. Fascia (fascia, a bandage) is the name assigned to laminae of various extent and thickness, which are distributed through the dif- ferent regions of the body, for the purpose of investing or protecting the softer and more delicate organs. From a consideration of their structure, these fascia may be arranged into two groups : cellulo- fibrous fasciae, and aponeurotic fasciae. The cellulo-fibrous fascia is best illustratedby the common subcu- taneous investment of the entire body, the superficial fascia. This structure is situated immediately beneath the integument over every part of the frame, and is the medium of connexion between that layer and the deeper parts. It is composed of cellulo-fibrous tissue, containing in its areola an abundance of adipose cells. The fat being a bad conductor of caloric, serves to retain the warmth of the body; while it forms at the same time a yielding tissue, through which minute vessels and nerves pass to the skin, without incurring the risk • of obstruction from injury or pressure. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be separated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cutaneous vessels and nerves ; as the superficial epigastric artery, saphenous veins, radial and ulnar veins, superficial lymphatic vessels, and the cutaneous muscles, as the platysma myoides, orbicularis palpebrarum, sphincter ani, &c. In other situations, the cellulo-fibrous fascia is found condensed into a strong and inelastic membrane, as is exemplified in the deep fascia of the neck, the thoracic, tranversaKs, and perineal fascia, and the sheaths of vessels. The aponeurotic fascia is the strongest kind of investing mem- brane ; it is composed of tendinous fibres running parallel with each other, and connected by other fibres of the same kind passing in difi'erent directions. When freshly exposed, it is white, glistening, and iridescent, and is tough, inelastic, and unyielding. In the limbs it forms the deep fascia, enclosing and forming distinct sheaths to all the muscles and tendons. It is thick on the outer and least pro- tected side of the limb, and thinner on its inner side. It is firmly connected to the bones, and to the prominent points of each region, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower, and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extremity. It assists the muscles in their action, by keeping up a tonic pressure on their sur- u