STEUCTUEAL ANATOMY OP THE LIVEE. 625 brancli of the portal vein from an hepatic vein; the former will be found more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct, and the latter widely open and solitary. The Lymphatics of the liver are described in the Chapter dedicated to those vessels. The Nerves of the liver are derived from the systems both of animal and organic life; the former proceed from the right phrenic and right pneumogastric nerve, the latter from the hepatic plexus. Structure and Minute Anatomy of the Liver. The Liver is composed of lobules, of a connecting medium called Glisson's capsule, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic dtict, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its situation by the peritoneum. The Lobules are small granu- lar bodies of about the size of a millet seed, of irregular form, and presenting a number of rounded prominences on their surface. When divided longitudinally, they have a foliated appearance, and transversely, a polygonal outline, with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of Glisson's capsule contained in the liver. Each lobule is divided upon its exterior into a base and a capsular surface. The base corresponds with one extremity of the lobule, is flattened, and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is ^thence named sublobular. The capsidar surface includes the rest of the periphery ^3- 220.t of the lobule, and has received its designation from being en- closed in a cellular capsule de- rived from the capsule of Grlisson. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intralobular,w]xich. is formed by the convergence of six or eight minute venules from * The lobules of the liver. The lobules as they are seen upon the surface of the liver, or when divided transversely. 1. The intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule. 2. The interlobular fissure. 3. The interlobular space. t A longitudinal section of two lobules. 1. A superficial lobule, terminat- ing abruptly, and resembhng a section at its extremity. 2. A deep lobule, showing the foliated appearance of its section. 3. The intralobular vein, with its converging venules; the vein terminates in a sublobular vein, 4. The external, or capsular surface of the lobule. S S