23 OCCIPITAL BONE. curved line. In the middle of the ridge is a projection, called the external occipital protuberance; and descending from it a small vertical ridge, the spine. Above and below the superior curved line the surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles. About three- quarters of an inch below this line is another transverse ridge, the inferior curved line, and beneath the latter the foramen rfiagnwm. On each side of the foramen magnum, nearer its anterior than its posterior segment, and encroaching somewhat upon the opening, is an oblong articular surface, the condyle, for articulation with the atlas. The condyles approach towards each other anteriorly, and their articular surfaces look downwards and outwards. Directly behind each condyle is an irregular fossa, and a small opening, the posterior condyloid foramen, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the condyle is the anterior condyloid fora- men, fj^r the hypoglossal nerve; on the outer side of each condyle a projectmg ridge, the transverse process, excavated in front by a notch which forms part of the jugular foramen; and directly behind the ridge, and forming its posterior boundary, a prominent process, the jugular tubercle. * In front of the foramen magnum is a thick square mass, the basilar process, and in the centre of the basilar process a small tubercle for the attachment of the superior and middle con- strictor muscles of the pharynx. Internal Surface.—Upon the internal surface is a crucial ridge, which divides the bone into four fossae; the two superior or cerebral fossae lodging the posterior lobes of the cerebrum; and the two in- ferior or cerebellar, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The supe- rior arm of the crucial ridge is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri; the inferior arm is sharp and prominent for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and slightly grooved for the two occipital sinuses. The transverse ridge gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and is deeply grooved for the lateral sinuses. At the point of meeting of the four arms is a projection, the internal occipital protuberance, which corresponds with the similar process situated upon the external surface of the bone. The convergence of the four grooves forms a slightly depressed fossa, upon which rests the torcular Herophili. In the centre of the basilar portion of the bone is the foramen magnum, oblong in form, and larger behind than before, transmitting the spinal cord, spinal accessory nerves, and vertebral arteriea. Upon the lateral margins of the foramen magnum are two rough eminences, which give attach- ment to the odontoid ligaments, and immediately above these, the openings of the anterior condyloid foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved on its surface for supporting the medulla oblongata, and along each lateral border for the inferior petrosal sinus. On each side of the foramen magnum is a groove, for the termination of the lateral sinus; a smooth surface, which forms part of the jugular fossa; and a projecting process, which divides the * Ketzius remarks that the jugular tubercle is very long in certain mammalia.