163 ARTICULATIONS OP THE PHALANGES. ceives a ligamentous slip from each, while the rest articulating with ■ a single tarsal bone receive only a single tarsal slip. The plantar ligaments have a similar disposition on the plantar surface. The interosseous ligaments are situated between the bases of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes; and also between the bases of the second and third metatarsal bone and the internal and external cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the second toe being implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bone, is the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones. This disposition must be recollected in amputation at the tarso-metatarsal articu- lation. The synovial membranes of the tarso-metatarsal articulation are three in number : one for the metatarsal bone of the great toe; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, which is continuous with the great tarsal synovial membrane; and one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Actions.—The movements of the metatarsal bones upon the tarsal and upon each other are very slight; they are such only as contri- bute to the strength of the foot, by permitting a certain degree of yielding to opposing forces. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal Articulation.—The ligaments of this articula;fcion, like those between the first phalanges and metacarpal bones of the hand, are, Inferior or plantar, Two lateral, Transverse. The inferior or plantar ligaments, thick and fibrocartilaginous, form part of the articulating surface of the joint. The lateral ligaments are short and very strong, and situated one on each side of the joints. The transverse ligament is a strong band, which passes trans- versely between the plantar ligaments. The expansion of the extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. A ctions. —The movements of the first phalanges upon the rounded heads of the metatarsal bones, are flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. 8. A rticulation of the Phalanges. —The ligaments of the phalanges are the same as those of the fingers, and have the same disposition; their actions are also similar. They are, Inferior or plantar, Two lateral. M 2