DIKECT INGUINAL HERNIA. 294 The spermatic canal, which in the normal condition of the abdo- minal parietes serves for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament with its vessels in the female, is abont one inch and a half in length. It is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; behind by the transversalis fascia, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis ; above by the arched borders of the internal oblique and transversalis; below by the grooved border of Poupart's ligament : and at each extremity by one of the abdominal rings, the internal ring at the inner, the external ring at the outer extremity. These relations may be more distinctly illustrated by the following plan : There are three* varieties of oblique inguinal hernia : common, congenital, and encysted. Common oblique hernia is that which has been described above. Congenital hernia results from the non-closure of the pouch of peritoneum carried downwards into the scrotum by the testicle, during its descent in the foetus. In consequence of this defect, the intestine at some period of life is forced into the peritoneal canal, and descends through it into the tunica vaginalis, where it lies in contact with the testicle; so that congenital hernia has no proper sac, but is contained within the tunica vaginalis. The other coverings are the same as those of common inguinal hernia. Encysted hernia (hernia infantilis, of Hey) is that form of pro- trusion in which the pouch of peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis, being only partially closed, and remaining open externally to the abdomen, admits of the hernia passing into the scrotum, behind the tunica vaginalis. So that the surgeon, in operating upon this variety, requires to divide three layers of serous membrane; the first and second layers being those of the tunica vaginalis; and the third the true sac of the hernia. Direct inguinal hernia has received its name from passing directly through the external abdominal ring, and forcing before it * Velpeau describes a fourth, in which the protrusion takes place between the edge of the rectus and the umbilical ligament, and then takes the course of the spermatic canal. Above. Lower borders of internal oblique and transversalis. Behind. In Front. Aponeurosis of external oblique. Spermatic canal. Transversalis fascia. Conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. Below. Grooved border of Poupart's ligament.