199 MUSCLES OP THE SOFT PALATE. Sixth Group.—Muscles of the soft Palate. Levator palati, Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. Dissection.—To examine these muscles, the pharynx must be opened from behind, and the mucous membrane carefully removed from off the posterior surface of the soft palate. The Levator palati, a moderately thick muscle, arises from the extremity of the petrous bone and from the posterior and inferior aspect of the Eustachian tube, and passing down by the side of the posterior nares spreads out between the fasciculi of origin of the palato-pharyngeus; it is inserted into the middle line, where it is continuous with the muscle of the opposite side, and is overlaid by the azygos uvulae. Relations.—Externally with the tensor palati and superior con- strictor muscle; internally and posteriorly with the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx and soft palate; inferiorly it passes between the two fasciculi of origin of the palato-pharyngeus to reach its insertion. This muscle must be turned down from its origin on one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away from its ptery- goid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The Tensor palati (circumflexus) is a slender and flattened muscle; it arises from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and from the anterior aspect of the Eustachian tube. It lies between the internal pterygoid muscle and internal pterygoid plate, and winding around the hamular process of the latter, expands into a tendinous aponeurosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone, and at the middle line is continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle; by its internal surface with the levator palati, internal pterygoid plate, and superior constrictor. In the soft palate, its tendinous expansion is placed in front of the other muscles, and in contact with the mucous membrane. The Azygos tjvul^ is a pair of small muscles situated along the mid-Hne of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone, and are inserted into the uvula. By their anterior surface they are in relation with the levatores palati, palato-glossi and ante- rior fasciculus of the palato-pharyngei; posteriorly they have the thin posterior fasciculus of the palato-pharyngei and the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are brought into view throughout the whole