POSTERIOR SCAPULAR REGION. 242 by a broad and tliick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the surface of bone immediately below that process. In structure the subsca- pularis is composed of eight or ten fasciculi, four or five of which arise from one side of as many aponeurotic processes attached to the ridges of the venter of the scapula; and four or five proceed from the other side of the aponeurotic processes and from the surface of bone intervening between them. Its tendon forms part of the capsule of the joint, glides over a large bursa which separates it from the base of the coracoid process, and is lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the articulatiom Relations.—By its anterior surface with the serratus magnus, coraco-brachialis, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface wdth the scapula, and shoulder-joint. Action.—It rotates the head of the humerus inwards, and is a powerful defence to the joint. When the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus, Teres minor, Infra-spinatus, Teres major. The Supra-spinatus muscle {supra, above; spina, the spine) arises from the supraspinous fossa, the spine of the scapula and proper investing fascia; and is inserted into the uppermost de- pression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus ; the tendon being united near its attachment with that of the infra-spinatus. The tendon cannot be seen until the acromion process is removed. Relations.—By its up/per surface with the trapezius, clavicle, acromion, and coraco-acromial ligament. From the trapezius it is separated by a strong fascia. By its lower surface with the supra- spinous fossa, suprascapular vessels and nerve, omo-hyoid muscle, and upper part of the shoulder-joint, forming part of the capsular ligament. The Infra-spinatus {infra, beneath; spina, the spine) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been pre- viously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infraspinous fossa, excepting a small portion near the neck of the bone, from the spine of the scapula, and from the invest- ing fascia; it is inserted into the middle depression upon the greater tuberosity of the humerus; its tendon being blended with that of the supraspinatus above and teres minor below. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, trapezius and integument. By its anterior surface with the infraspinous fossa, suprascapular and dorsal scapular vessels, and