175 OCULAR GROUP. 'plate of the frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The su- perciliary portion of the orbit may now be driven forwards by a j smart blow, and the external angular process and external wall of the orbit outwards in the same manner ; the broken fragments of the I roof of the orbit should then be removed. By this means the perios- teum will be exposed unbroken and undisturbed. Remove the periosteum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orbit, and examine the parts beneath. The Levator Palpebr^ is a long, thin, and triangular muscle, situated in the upper part of the orbit on the middle line ; it arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted into the upper border of the superior tarsal cartilage. Relations.—By its upper surface with the fourth nerve, supra- orbital nerve and artery, periosteum of the orbit, and in front the inner face of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface it rests on the superior rectus, globe of the eye and conjunctiva ; it receives its nerve and artery by this aspect. The Rectus Superior (attollens) arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is inserted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye at a point somewhat more than three lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upper surface with the levator palpebrse muscle; by the under surface with the optic nerve, ophthalmic artery an^ nasal nerve, from which it is separated by the adipose * Muscles of the eyeball; the view is taken from the outer side of the right orbit. 1. A fragment of that portion of the sphenoid bone through which the optic nerve passes to enter the orbit. 2. The optic nerve. 3. The globe of the eye. 4. Levator palpebrse muscle. 5. Superior obhque muscle. 6. Its cartilaginous pulley. 7. Its reflected tendon. 8. The inferior obhque muscle, the smaU square knob at its conmiencement is a piece of its bony origin broken oflF. 9. Superior rectus. 10. Internal rectus partly concealed by the optic nerve. 11. Part of the external rectus, showing its two heads of origin. 12. The extremity of the external rectus at its insertion; the in- termediate portion of the muscle having been removed. 13. Inferior rectus. 14. The tunica albuginea, formed by the expansion of the tendons of the four recti. Fig. 100.* 8