LOBES OP THE LIVER. 623 These five fissures taken collectively resemble an inverted y, the base corresponding with the free margin of the liver, and the apex with its posterior border. Viewing them in this way, the two anterior branches represent the longitudinal fissure on the left, and the fissure for the gall-bladder on the right side; the two posterior, the fissure for the ductus venosus on the left, and the fissure for the vena cava on the right; and the connecting bar, the transverse fissure. Lobes.—The right lobe is four or six times larger than the left, from which it is separated, on the concave surface, by the longitu- dinal fissure, and, on the convex, by the longitudinal ligament. It is marked upon its under surface by the transverse fissure, and by the fissures for the gall-bladder and vena cava; and presents three depressions, one, in front, for the curve of the ascending colon (impressio colica), and two behind, for the right supra-renal capsule and kidney (impressio renalis). The Left lobe is small and flattened, convex upon its upper sur- Fig. 218* i3 * The tinder surface of the liver. 1, The right lobe. 2. The left lobe. 3. The lobus quadratus. 4. The lobus Spigelii. 5. The lobus caudatus. 6. The longitudinal fissure; the numeral is placed on the rounded cord, the remains of the umbilical vein. 7. The pons hepatis. 8. The fissure of the ductus venosus; the obhterated cord of the ductus is seen passing backwards to be attached to the coats of the inferior vena cava (9). 10. The gaU-bladder lodged in its fossa. 11. The transverse fissure, containing, from before backwards, the hepatic duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein. 12. The vena cava. 13. A depression corresponding with the curve of the colon. 14. A double depression produced by the right kidney and its supra-renal capsule. 15. The rough surface on the posterior border of the Uver left uncovered by peritoneum; the cut edge of peritoneum surrounding this surface forms part of the coronary hgament. 16. The notch on the anterior border, separating the two lobes. 17. The notch on the posterior border, corresponding with the vertebral column.