INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 223 Tlie lower border of the aponeurosis, which, is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, is round from being folded inwards, and forms Pouparfs ligament (ligamentum Fallopii; arcus cruralis); the insertion into the pectineal line is Gimhernat''s ligament. Just above the crest of the pubes is the external ahdominal ring (annulus abdominalis externus), a triangular opening formed by the separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is oblique in its direction and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded below by the crest of the pubes; on either side by the borders of the aponeurosis, which are called pillars; and above by some curved fibres [intercoluvmar) which originate from Poupart's ligament, and cross the upper angle of the ring, so as to give it strength. The external pillar, which is at the same time inferior from the obliquity of the opening, is in- serted into the spine of the pubes; the internal or superior pillar forms an interlacement with its fellow of the opposite side over the front of the symphysis pubis. The external abdominal ring gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female : they are both invested in their passage through it by a prolongation of the fascia of the external oblique muscle, the intercolumnar fascia, or fascia spermatica. The pouch of inguinal hernia, in passing through this opening, receives'the intercolumnar fascia as one of its coverings. Relations. —By its external surface with the superficial fascia and integument, and with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, particularly the superficial epigastric and superficial circumflexa ilii vessels. It is generally overlapped posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi. By its internal surface with the internal oblique, the lower part of the eight inferior ribs and intercostal muscles, the cremaster, sper- matic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female. The upper border of the external oblique is continuous with the pecto- ralis major. The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision across the ribs, just below its origin, to its posterior border; and an- other along Poupart's ligament and the crest of the ilium. Poupart's ligament should be left entire, as it gives attachment to the next muscles. The muscle may then be turned forwards towards the linea alba, or removed altogether. The Internal oblique muscle (obliquus intermis abdominis, ascendens; ilio-abdominalis) is the middle flat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for two-thirds its length, and from the fascia lumborum. Its fibres diverge from their origin, so that those from Poupart's ligament curve downwards, those from the anterior part of the crest of the ilium pass transversely, and the rest ascend ob- liquely. The muscle is inserted into the pectineal line and crest of the pubes, linea alba, and lower border of the four inferior ribs.