448 FIBRES OF THE BRAIN. olivare, are those of the hypoglossal nerve; and those on its posterior border are the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric. The Corpora restiformia (restis, a rope) comprehend the whole of the posterior half of each lateral column of the medulla oblongata. They are separated from the corpora olivaria by the grooves already spoken of; posteriorly they are divided from each other by the posterior median fissure and fourth ventricle, and superiorly they diverge and curve backwards to enter the cerebellum, and constitute its inferior peduncles. Along the posterior border of each corpus restiforme, and marked off from that body by a groove, is a narrow white cord, separated from its fellow by the posterior fissure. This pair of narrow cords are termed the j)OSterior pyramids (fasciculi graciles). Each fasciculus forms an enlargement (processus clavatus) at its upper end, and is then lost in the corresponding corpus resti- forme. The processus clavati are the lateral boundaries of the nib of the calamus scriptorius. The corpus restiforme is crossed near its entrance into the cerebellum by the auditory nerve, the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and the pneumogastric lobule. The remaining portion of the medulla oblongata visible from the exterior, are the two slightly convex columns which enter into the formation of the floor of the fourth ventricle. These columns are the fasciculi teretes (innominati). Diverging fibres.—The fibres composing the columns of the medulla oblongata have a special arrangement on reaching the upper part of that body, those of the corpora pyramidalia and olivaria enter the pons Varolii, and are thence prolonged through the crura cerebri, thalami optici, and corpora striata to the cerebral hemi- spheres ; but those of the corpora restiformia are reflected backwards into the cerebellum, and form its inferior peduncles. From pursuing this course, and spreading out as they advance, these fibres have been termed by Gall the diverging fibres. While situated within the pons the fibres of the corpus pyramidale and olivare separate and spread out, and have grey substance interposed between them; and they quit the pons much increased in number and bulk, so as to form the crus cerebri. The fibres of the cms cerebri again are separated in the thalamus opticus, and intermingled with grey matter, and they also quit that body greatly increased in number and bulk. Precisely the same change takes place in the corpus striatum, and the fibres are now so extraordinarily multiplied as to be capable of forming a large proportion of the hemispheres. Observing this remarkable increase in the white fibres, apparently from the admixture of grey substance, Gall and Spurzheim considered the latter as the material of increase or formative substance to the white fibres, and they are borne out in this conclusion by several collateral facts, among the most prominent of which is the great vascularity of the grey substance; the larger proportion of the nutrient fluid circulatiag through it is fully capable of effecting the increased growth and nutrition of the structures by which it is sur-