84 ULNA, most prominent. Immediately in front of the trochlea is a small depression for receiving the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-arm; and immediately behind it a large and deep fossa, for containing the olecranon process during extension. Development.—By seven centres : one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the tuberosities, one for the eminentia capitata, one for the trochlea, and one for each condyle, the Fig. 47.* internal preceding the external. Ossification commences in the diaphysis of the humerus soon after the clavicle; in the head and tuberosities, during the second and third years of infantile life; in the eminentia capitata and trochlea during the third and sixth years; and in the condyles during the twelfth and fifteenth. The entire bone is consolidated at twenty. Articulations.—With the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-four : by the greater tuberosity to the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor; lesser tube- rosity, subscapularis; anterior bicipital ridge, pectoralis major; posterior bicipital ridge and groove, teres major and latissimus dorsi; shaft, external and internal head of the triceps, del- toid, coraco-brachialis, and brachialis anticus; external condyloid ridge and condyle {condylus extensorius), extensors and supinators of the fore-arm, viz., supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis; internal condyle (condylus fexorius), flexors and one pronator, viz., pro- nator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, pal- maris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris. Ulna.—The ulna is a long bone, divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity is large, and forms principally the articulation of the elbow; while the lower extremity is small, and is excluded from the wrist-joint by an interarticular fibrocartilage. * The humerus of the right side; its anterior surface. 1. The shaft of the bone. 2. The head. 3. The anatomical ueck. 4. The greater tuberosity. 5. The lesser tuberosity. 6. The bicipital groove. 7. The anterior bicipital ridge. 8. The posterior bicipital ridge. 9. The rough surface into which the deltoid is inserted. 10. The nutritious foramen. 11. The eminentia capitata. 12. The trochlea. 13. The external condyle. 14. The internal condyle. 15. The external condyloid ridge. 16. The interna] condyloid ridge. 17. The fossa for the coronoid process of the ulna.