640 VISCERA OP THE PELVIS. Tlie Veins of the kidney commence at the surface by minute con- verging venules, the stellated vessels, and proceed inwards, receiving in their course the veins of the cortical and tubular portion of the organ. On arriving at the pelvis, they unite to form the branches of the renal vein, which terminates in the vena cava by a single large trunk on each side; the left renal vein receiving the left spermatic vein. ■ Injections thrown into the renal artery, and returning by the tubuli uriniferi, make their way into those tubes by rupture. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed partly by the solar plexus, and partly by the third splanchnic nerve. The renal plexus gives branches to the spermatic plexus, and branches which accompany the ureters : hence the morbid sympathies which exist between the kidney, the ureter, and the testicle: and by the communications with the solar plexus, with the stomach and dia- phragm, and indeed with the whole system. In the intimate structure of the kidney, the nerve-fibres are, according to Toynbee, continuous with the nucleated cells of the parenchyma of the organ. PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that portion of the great abdominal cavity which is included within the bones of the pelvis, below the level of the linea-ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. It is bounded by the cavity of the abdomen above, and by the perineum below; its internal parietes are formed, in front, below, and at the sides, by the peritoneum, pelvic fascia, levatores ani and obturator muscles; and behind, by the coccygei muscles, sacro-ischiatic liga- ments, pyriformis muscle, sacral plexus of nerves, sacrum and coccyx. The Viscera of the pelvis in the male are, the urinary bladder, prostate gland, vesiculse seminales, and rectum. The Bladder is a hollow membranous viscus, triangular and flattened against the pubes when empty, ovoid when distended, situated behind the pubes and in front of and upon the rectum. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side; and its long axis is directed from above, obliquely downwards and backwards. It is divided into body, fundus, base, and neck. The hody com- prehends the middle zone of the organ ; the fundus (superior fundus) its upper segment; the base (inferior fundus), the lower broad ex- tremity which rests on the rectum ; and the necJc, the narrow con- stricted portion which is applied against the prostate gland. It is retained in position by ligaments which are divisible into true and f^lse: the true ligaments are five in number, two anterior, two lateral, and the cord of the urachus; the false ligaments are folds of the peritoneum, and are also five in number, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior.