416 CHAPTEE VIII. OF THE NEEVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous system consists of a central organ, tlie cerebro- spinal centre or axis, and numerous rounded and flattened wMte cords, the nerves, wliich are connected by one extremity with the cerebro-spinal centre, and by the other are distributed to all the textures of the body. The sympathetic system is an exception to this description ; for in place of one it has many small centres which are called ganglia, and which communicate very freely with the cerebro-spinal axis and with its nerves. The cerebro-spinal axis consists of two portions, the brain, an organ of large size, situated within the skull, and the spinal cord, a lengthened portion of the nervous Centre continuous with the brain, and occupying the canal of the vertebral column. The most superficial examination of the brain and spinal cord shows them to be composed of fibres, or rather fasciculi, which in some situations are ranged in a longitudinal direction, and in others are interlaced at various angles by cross fibres. The fasciculi are connected and held together by a delicate cellular web, which forms the bond of support of the entire organ. It is also observed that the cerebro-spinal axis presents two substances differing from each other in density and colour: a grey or cineritious or cortical sub- stance, and a white or medullary substance. The grey substance forms a thin lamella over the surface of the convolutions of the cere- brum, and of the laminae of the cerebellum : hence it has been named cortical; but the grey substance is not confined to the surface of the brain, as this term would imply; it is likewise situated in the centre of the spinal cord its entire length, and may be thence traced through the medulla oblongata, crura cerebri, thalami optici, and corpora striata : it enters also into the composition of the locus perforatus, tuber cinereum, commissura mollis, pineal gland, pituitary gland, and corpora rhomboidea. Two kinds of grey substance are described by Eolando as existing in the spinal cord ; the one (substantia cinerea spongiosa vascu- losa) is the ordinary grey matter of the cord, the other {substantia cinerea gelatinosa) is found in the posterior cornua. The former resembles in structure the grey matter of the brain ; the latter is composed of small bodies resembling the blood corpuscules of the frog.