512 CAROTID PLEXUS. to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and neighbouring part of the pharynx. The Otic ganglion (Arnold's)* is a small oval-shaped and flat- tened ganglion, which lies against the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the foramen ovale; it is in relation, ex- ternally, with the trunk of that nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; internally it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle; and posteriorly is in con- tact with the arteria meningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling upon that branch. The branches of the otic ganglion are six in number; two of dis- tribution, and four of communication. The branches of distribution are, a small filament to the tensor tympani muscle, and one or two to the tensor palati. The bran cites of communication are, one or two filaments from the inferior maxillary nerve (short root); one or two filaments from the auriculo-temporal nerve; filaments from the nerAT. moUes of the arteria meningea media, and the nervus petrosus superficialis minor (longroot). The latter nerve ascends from the ganglion to a small canal situated between the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and passes backwards on the petrous bone to the hiatus Fallopii, where it divides into two filaments. One of these filaments enters the hiatus and joins the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial; the other passes to a minute foramen nearer the base of the pe- trous bone, and enters the tjrrnpanum, where it communicates with a branch of Jacobson's nerve. The Submaxillary ganglion is a small round or triangular ganglion situated on the submaxillary gland, in close relation with the gustatory nerve, and near the posterior border of the mylo- hyoideus muscle. Its branches of distribution, six or eight in number, divide into many filaments, which supply the side of the tongue, the submax- illary gland, sublingual gland, and Wliarton's duct. Its branches of communication are, two or three from and to the gustatory nerve ; one from the chorda tympani; two or three which form a plexus with branches of the hypoglossal nerve; and one or two filaments which pass to the facial artery, and communicate with the nervi moUes from the cervical portion of the sympathetic. Carotid plexus.—The ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, which forms several loops of commu- nication with each other around the artery. These branches, toge- ther mth those derived from the petrosal branch of the Vidian, * Frederick Ai'uold, "Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica JTervi Svmpathetici." Heidelberg, 1836; and " Ueber den Ohrknoteu," 1828.