KETINA.—ZONULA CILIARIS. 530 which proceed from the optic nerve, and, near their termination, bend abruptly inwards, to form the internal papillary layer, which lies in contact with the hyaloid membrane; each fibre constituting by its extremity a distinct papilla. The Vascular membrane consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, the arteria centralis retinas, and its accompanying vein ; the artery pierces the optic nerve, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus, in the centre of the lamina cribrosa. This artery may be seen by making a transverse section of the eyeball. Its branches are continued anteriorly into the zonula ciliaris. The vascular layer forms distinct sheaths for the nervous papillae, which constitute the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the posterior part of the globe of the eye the retina presents a circular spot, which is called the foramen of Soemmering;* it is surrounded by a yellow halo, the limbus luteus, and is frequently obscured by an elliptical fold of the retina, which has been regarded as a normal condition of the membrane. The term foramen is mis- applied to this spot, for the vascular layer and the membrana Jacobi are continued across it; the nervous substance alone appearing to be deficient. It exists only in animals having the axes of the eyeballs parallel with each other, as man, quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles, and is said to give passage to a small lymphatic vessel. The Zonula ciliaris (zonula of Zinn)f is a thin vascular layer, which connects the anterior margin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens, near its circumference. It presents upon its sur- face a number of small folds corresponding with the ciliary processes, between which they are received. These processes are arranged in the form of rays around the lens, and the spaces between them are stained by the pigmentum nigrum of the ciliary processes. They derive their vessels from the vascular layer of the retina. The under surface of the zonula is in contact with the hyaloid membrane, and around the lens forms the anterior fluted wall of the canal of Petit. The connexion between these folds and the ciliary processes may be demonstrated by dividing an eye transversely into two portions, then raising the anterior half, and allowing the vitreous humour to separate from its attachment by its own weight. The folds of the zonula will then be seen to be drawn out from between the folds of the ciliary processes. Humours.—The Aqueous humour is situated in the anterior and posterior chamber of the eye ; it is a weakly albuminous fluid, with * Samuel Thomas Soemmering is celebrated for the beautiful and accurate plates which accompany his works. The account " De Foramine Centrali Retinae Humanse, Limbo Luteo cincto," was pubHshed in 1779, in the Com' mentationes Soc. Meg. Scient. Gottingcrisis. t John Gottfried Zinn, Professor of Anatomy in Gdttingen; his "Descriptio Anatomica Oculi Humani," was pubhshed in 1755; with excellent plates. It was republished by Wrisberg in 1780.