482 CERVICAL NERVES. The Spinal nerves are classed as follows: Cervical Dorsal 8 12 5 5 1 pairs Lumbar Sacral Coccygeal The cervical nerves pass off transversely from the spinal cord ; the dorsal are oblique in direction; the lumbar and sacral, vertical; the latter form the large assemblage of nerves, at the termination of the cord, called cauda equina. The cauda equina occupies the lower third of the spinal canal. The cervical nerves increase in size from above downwards; the first (sub-occipital) passes out of the spinal canal between the occi- pital bone and atlas, the second between the posterior ring of the atlas and the lamina of the axis; and the last between the last cer- vical and first dorsal vertebra. Each nerve, at its escape from the intervertebral foramen, sepa,rates into an anterior and a posterior division. The anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus; the posterior divisions, \he posterior cer- vical plexus. The anterior divisions of the four inferior cervical together with the first dorsal form the brachial plexus. Anterior cervical nerves.—The anterior division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve escapes from the vertebral canal through the groove on the posterior arch of the atlas, which sup- ports the vertebral artery, lying beneath that vessel. It then de- scends in front of the transverse process of the atlas, sends twigs to the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor, and forms an anasto- motic loop by communicating with an ascending branch of the second nerve. Branches from this loop communicate with the pneumo- gastric nerve, hypoglossal nerve, and first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The anterior division of the second cervical nerve at its exit from the intervertebral foramen between the atlas and the axis gives twigs to the rectus anticus major, scalenus posticus, and levator anguli scapulae, and divides into three branches: an ascending branch, which completes the arch of communication with the first nerve; and two descending branches, which form loops with corre- sponding branches of the third nerve. The anterior division of the third cervical nerve, double the size of the preceding, divides at its exit from the intervertebral foramen CERVICAL NERVES.