57 SUPERIOR REGION OP THE SKULL. ' occipital with the parietal bones. At the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bones, the lambdoid suture is continued onwards in a curved direction into the base of the skull, and serves to unite the occipital bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal, under the name of additamentum sutiirce lambdoidalis. It is in the lambdoid suture that ossa triquetra occur most frequently. The squamous suture (fig. 37) unites the squamous portion of the temporal bone with the greater ala of the sphenoid, and with the parietal, overlapping the lower border of the latter. The portion of the suture which is continued backwards from the squamous portion of the bone to the lambdoid suture, and connects the mastoid portion with the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, is the additamentum suturce squamosce. The additamentum suturaJ lambdoidalis, and additamentum suturae squamosse, constitute together the mastoid suture. Across the upper part of the face is an irregular suture, the trans- verse, which connects the frontal bone with the nasal, superior max- illary, lachrymal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and malar bones. The remain- ing sutures are too unimportant to deserve particular names or description, REGIONS OP THE SKULL, The fekull, considered as a whole, is divisible into four regions : a superior region or vertex; a lateral region; an inferior region or base; and an anterior region, the face. The SUPERIOR REGION, or vertex of the skull, is bounded ante- riorly by the frontal eminences; on each side by the temporal ridges and parietal eminences; and behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone and occipital protuberance. It is crossed trans- versely by the coronal suture, and marked from before backwards by the sagittal, which terminates posteriorly in the lambdoid suture. Near the posterior extremity of the region, and on each side of ^the sagittal suture, is the parietal foramen. Upon the inner or cerebral surface of this region is a shallow groove, extending along the middle line from before backwards, for the superior longitudinal sinus; on either side of this groove are several small foss® for the Pacchionian bodies, and farther outwards, digital foss83 corresponding with the convexities of the convolutions, and numerous ramified markings for lodging the branches of the arteria meningea media. The LATERAL REGION of the skuU is divisible into three portions; temporal, mastoid, and zygomatic. The temporal portion, or temporal fossa, is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge, in front by the external angular process of the frontal bone and by the malar bone, and below by the zygoma. It is formed by part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal,