AZYGOS VEINS. 399 The Supra-renal veins terminate partly in the renal veins, and partly in the inferior vena cava. The Phrenic veins return the blood from the ramifications of the phrenic arteries; they open into the inferior vena cava. The Hepatic veins form two principal trunks and numerous smaller veins which open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the posterior border of the liver. The hepatic veins commence in the liver by minute venules, the intralobular veins, in the centre of each lobule ; these pour their blood into larger vessels, the suhlohular veins ; and the sublobular veins con- stitute, by their convergence and union, the hepatic trunks, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins (fig. 153) form a system of communication between the superior and inferior vena cava, and serve to return the blood from that part of the trunk of the body in which those vessels are deficient, on account of their connexion with the heart. This system consists ;of three vessels—namely, Vena azygos major. Vena azygos minor, Superior intercostal veins. The vena azygos major commences in the lumbar region by a communication with the lumbar veins ; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein. It passes through the right crus of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening, and ascends along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches for- ward over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior vena cava. It receives all the intercostal veins of the right side with the exception of those of the first and second spaces, the vena azygos minor, and the right bronchial vein. The vena azygos minor commences in the lumbar region, on the left side, by a communication with one of the lumbar veins or with the renal vein. It enters the chest through the left crus of the diaphragm and ascends the left side of the vertebral column, crosses the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra and opens into the vena azygos major. It receives the six or seven lower intercostal veins of the left side. The azygos veins have no valves. The right superior intercostal vein receives the veins of the first and second intercostal spaces, and opens into the subclavian vein of the same side. The left superior intercostal vein is the trunk formed by the union of the five or six upper intercostal veins of the left side. It communicates below with the vena azygos minor, and crosses the