INFERIOK MAXILLARY NERVE. 466 temporal fossa it comnninicates with tlie deep temporal nerves. The malar, or inferior branch (subcutaneus malse) takes its course along the lower angle of the outer wall of the orbit, and emerges upon the cheek through an opening in the malar bone, passing between the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It communicates with branches of the infra-orbital and facial nerve. The Spheno-palatine branches, two in number, pass downwards to the spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. The Posterior dental hranclies, two in number, pass downwards upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, where one enters a canal in the bone, and is distributed to the molar teeth and lining membrane of the antrum, and communicates with the anterior dental nerve; while the other, lying externally to the bone, is distributed to the gums and buccinator muscle. The Middle and anterior dental branches descend to the corre- sponding teeth and gums; the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. Previously to their distribution, the dental nerves form a plexus (superior maxillary plexus) in the outer wall of the superior maxillary bone immediately above the alveolus. From this plexus the filaments are given off which supply the pulps of the teeth, gums, mucous membrane of the floor of the nares, and palate. Some gangliform bodies have been described in connexion with this jDlexus, one being placed over the canine, and another over the second molar tooth. The Muscular and cutaneous branches are the terminating fila- ments of the nerve; they supply the muscles, integument, and mucous membrane of the lower eyelid, cheek, nose, and lip, and form a plexus by their communications with the facial nerve. The Inferior maxillary nerve is a nerve both of sensation and motion, and is distributed to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, the tongue, which it supplies with the sense of taste, the in- tegument of the temple, external ear, lower part of the face and lower lip, and the muscles of mastication. It proceeds from the inferior angle of the Casserian ganglion, is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and is increased in size by the anterior or motor root, which passes behind the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary as it escapes through the foramen ovale. Emerging at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two trunks, external and internal, which are separated from each other by the external pteiygoid muscle. The External division, into which may be traced nearly the whole of the motor root, immediately separates into five or six branches, which are distributed to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region; they are, the masseteric, temporal, buccal, internal pterygoid, and external pterygoid. The Masseteric branch passing over the external pterygoid muscle,