376 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior tibial artery (tibialispostica) passes obliquely dowTi- wards along the tibial side of the leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the concavity of the os calcis, where it diTides into the internal and external plantar artery. Relations.—In its course it lies first upon the tibialis posticus, next on the flexor longus digitorum, and then on the tibia; it is coTored in by the intermuscular fascia which separates it above from the soleus, and below from the deep fascia of the leg and the integument. It is accompanied by its venae comites, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies to its inner side at first, and to its outer side in the rest of its course. Plan of the Relations of the Posterior Tibial Artery. Superficialli/. Soleus, Deep fascia, Intermuscular fascia. Inner Side. Posterior tibial nerve, Vein. Posterior Tibial Ai'tery. Outer Side. Posterior tibial nerve. Vein. Deeply. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Branches.—The branches of the posterior tibial artery are the— Peroneal, Internal calcanean, Nutritious, Internal plantar, Muscular, External plantar. The Peroneal Artery (peronsea ; fibularis) is given off from the posterior tibial at about two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it is nearly as large as the anterior tibial artery, and passes obKquely outwards to the fibula. It then runs down- wards along the initer border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal. Relations.—The peroneal artery rests upon the tibialis posticus muscle, and is covered in by the soleus, intermuscular fascia, and flexor longus pollicis, having the fibula to its outer side. Branches.—The branches of the peroneal artery are, muscular to the neighbouring muscles, particularly the soleus : mitHent to the fibula; and two terminal branches anterior and posterior peroneal. The Anterior peroneal aHery (perontea antica vel perforans) pierces the interosseous membrane at the lower third of the leg, and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal artery.