492 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE, The Cutaneous branch proceeds from about the middle of the nerve, and descends upon the ulnar artery to the hand, giving twigs to the integument in its course. One branch from its upper part, sometimes a separate ofiset from the nerve and sometimes absent, pierces the fascia, and communicates with the internal cutaneous nerve. The Dorsal branch passes backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower fourth of the forearm, and divides into branches which supply the integument and two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, communicating with the radial nerve, with which it forms an arch. The Su])€rficial palmar branch, after giving some twigs to the palmaris brevis and inner border of the hand, divides into three fila- ments, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, one to the adjoining borders of the little and ring finger, and a communicating branch to join the median nerve. The Deep j^olmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, s^^pplying the muscles of the little finger, interossei, two ulnar lumbricales, adductor pollicis, and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The MuscuLO-sPiRAL nerve, the largest branch of the brachial plexus, arises from its posterior trunk in common with the circum- flex, and, descending behind the axillary and brachial artery, winds around the humerus between the triceps and the bone, and in com- pany with the superior profunda artery to the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, and thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, radial and posterior interosseous. The Branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are,— The Muscular branches are distributed to the triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. The Cutaneous branches are three in number, internal and two external. The internal branch arises from the nerve in the axilla, and piercing the deep fascia in the upper third of the arm on its poste- rior aspect, communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the posterior aspect of the upper arm, as far as the olecranon. The external branches pass through the substance of the external head of the triceps, and pierce the deep fascia; one {upper) near the insertion of the deltoid, the other or loiver branch at about the middle of the upper arm. The tipper branch follows the course of the cephalic vein, supplying the integument of the outer and fore part of the upper arm as far as the bend of the elbow. The lower Muscular, Cutaneous, Radial, Posterior interosseous.