POSTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 246 t protects the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the orearm. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid, pectoralis major, superficial and deep fascia, and integument. By its posterior surface the short head rests on the subscapularis, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the rest of its extent the muscle is in relation with the humerus, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and brachialis anticus ; from the latter it is separated by the musculo- cutaneous nerve. By its inner border with the coraco-brachialis, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve; the brachial vessels crossing its tendon at the bend of the elbow. By its outer border with the deltoid and supinator longus. The Brachialis anticus (humero-cubitalis) is a broad muscle covering the whole of the anterior surface of the lower part of the hiimerus; it arises by two fleshy serrations which embrace the in- sertion of the deltoid, from the anterior surface of the humerus, and from the inner intermuscular septum. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna, between two pro- cesses of the flexor digitorum profundus. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the biceps, musculo- cutaneous nerve, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve. By its posterior swrface with the humerus, anterior ligament of the elbow-joint, and intermuscular aponeurosis. The latter separates it from the triceps. By its external border with the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, musculo-spiral nerve, and recurrent radial artery. By its internal border with the intermuscular aponeurosis (which separates it from the triceps and ulnar nerve), and with the pronator radii teres. Actions.—The coraco-brachialis draws the humerus inwards, and assists in flexing it upon the scapula. The biceps and brachialis anticus are flexors of the forearm, and the former a supinator. The brachialis anticus is a powerful protector of the elbow-joint. Postenor Humeral Region. Triceps brachii. Dissection.—Remove the integument and fascia from the posterior aspect of the upper arm. The Triceps brachii {rptiQ Kt(pa\ai, three heads ; triceps ex- tensor crubiti) arises by three heads : external, middle, and internal. The external head (anconaeus externus) proceeds from the whole length of the external and posterior aspect of the humerus, fi-om the insertion of the teres minor at the greater tuberosity to the ex- ternal condyle, and also from the external intermuscular septum. The internal head (anconaeus internus) arises from the inner and posterior aspect of the humerus, from the insertion of the teres major to the internal condyle, and from the internal intermuscular