203 SCALENI.—LONGUS COLLI. cervicalis ascendens, and two upper levatores costarum; internally with the first intercostal muscle, first rib, pleura, inter-transverse muscles, and cervical vertebrae; and externally with the sterno- mastoid, omo-hyoid, and 'supra-scapular and transversalis colli artery. The LoNGUs colli (prsedorso-atloideus) is a long and flat muscle, consisting of two portions. The upjfter arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebra. The lower portion arises from the bodies of the second, third, and fourth, and trans- verse processes of the fifth and sixth, and passes down the neck, to be inserted into the bodies of the three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebrae. We may thus arrange these attachments in a tabular form:— Origin. Insertion, Upper ) ^tlas \ transverse portion. \ ' ' ' \ processes. Lower ) bodies ( 3 lower cervical vertebrae, ,. > 5th and 6th transverse I bodies, ^ ;' ) processes . . (3 upper dorsal, bodies. In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and trans" verse processes of the six superior cervical vertebrae above, and to the bodies of the last three cervical and first three dorsal below. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, oeso- phagus, sheath of the common carotid, internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, sympathetic nerve, inferior laryngeal nerve, and inferior thyroid artery. By its posterior surface it rests upon^ the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae. Transversalis colli anterior.*—Under this name Retzius has de- scribed a small muscle (rudimentary in man but large and important in mammiferous animals) situated on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae between the rectus anticus major and scalenus anticus. It arises hj small tendinous slips from tih.e anterior tubercles of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae; and is inserted into the similar tubercles of the second and third vertebrae, and sometimes also into the transverse process of the atlas. Actions.'—The rectus anticus major and minor preserve the equi- librium of the head upon the atlas; and, acting conjointly with the longus colli, flex and rotate the head and the cervical portion of the vertebral column. The scaleni muscles, taking their fixed point from below, are flexors of the vertebral column; and, from above, devators of the ribs, and therefore inspiratory muscles. * Oken's Isis. 1845. Transactions of the Scandinavian Naturalists, 1842.