SCKOTUM—SPERMATIC COED. 651 behind the triangular ligament, where they originate in two small, lobulated, and somewhat compressed glands, of about the size of peas. These are Gowper's glands; they are situated immediately beneath the membranous portion of the urethra, and are enclosed by the lower segment of the compressor urethrse muscle, so as to be subject to muscular compression. Upon the whole of the internal surface of the spongy portion of the urethra, and especially along its lower surface, are numerous small openings of lacunas, which are the apertures of mucous glands situated in the submucous cellular tissue. The openings of these lacunse are directed forwards, and are liable occasionally to intercept the point of a small catheter in its passage into the bladder. At about an inch and a half from the opening of the meatus, in the upper wall of the urethra, one of the lacunse is generally found much larger than the rest, and is named the lacuna magna. In a preparation of this lacuna, made by Sir Astley Cooper, the extremity of the canal presents several large primary ramifications. TESTES. ' The testes are two small glandular organs suspended from the abdomen by the spermatic cords, and enclosed in an external tegu- mentary covering, the scrotum. . The Scrotum is distinguished into two lateral halves or hemi- spheres by a rajohe, which is continued anteriorly along the under surface of the penis, and posteriorly along the middle line of the perineum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions the left is some- what longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the spermatic cord on the left side. The scrotum is composed of two layers, the integument and a proper covering, the dartos ; the integument is extremely thin, transparent, and abundant, and beset by a number of hairs, which issue obliquely from the skin, and have prominent roots. The dartos is a thin layer of contractile fibrous tissue, intermediate in properties between muscular fibre and elastic tissue; it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, and sends inwards a septum (septum scroti), which divides it into two cavities for the two testes. The dartos is continuous around the base of the scrotiim with the com- mon superficial fascia of the abdomen and perineum. The Spermatic cord is the medium of communication between the testes and the interior of the abdomen; it is composed of arte- ries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, the excretory duct of the testicle, and investing tunics. It commences at the internal abdominal ring, where the vessels of which it is composed converge, and passes obliquely along the spermatic canal : the cord then escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends through the scrotum to the posterior border of the testicle. The left cord is somewhat longer