350 GASTKIC ARTERY.—HEPATIC ARTERY. Relations.—The trunk of the coeliac axis has in relation with it, in front the lesser omentum; on the right side the right semilunar ganglion and lobus Spigelii of the liver; on the left side, the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac portion of the stomach; and helow, the upper border of the pancreas and lesser curve of the stomach. Iti s completely surrounded by the solar plexus. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser cTirvature to the pylorus, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is distributed to the lower ex- tremity of the oesophagus and lesser curve of the stomach; and anastomoses with the oesophageal arteries, vasa brevia of the splenic artery, and pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The Hepatic artery (hepatica) curves forward, and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the Hver, where it divides into two branches (right and left), which enter the trans- verse fissure, and are distributed along the portal canals to the right and left lobes.* It is in relation, in the right border of the lesser omentum, with the ductus communis choledochus and portal vein, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves, and numerous lymphatics. There are sometimes two hepatic arteries, in which case one is derived from the superior mesenteric artery. The Branches of the hepatic artery are, the The Pyloric branch, given off from the hepatic near the pylorus, is distributed to the commencement of the duodenum and to the lesser curve of the stomach, where it inosculates with the gastric artery. The Gastro-duodenalis artery is a short but large trunk, which descends behind the pylorus, and divides into two branches, the gastro-epiploica dextra, and pancreatico-duodenahs. Previously to its division it gives off some inferior pyloric branches to the small end of the stomach. The Gastro-epiploica dextra runs along the great curve of the stomach lying between the two layers of the great omentum, and inosculates at about its middle with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic artery. It supplies the great curve of the stomach and great omentum; hence its name. * For tlie mode of distribution of the hepatic artery within the liver, see the " Structural Anatomy" of that organ in the Chapter on the Viscera. Pyloric, Gastr 0 - duodenalis. Cystic. 1 Gfastro-epiploica dextra, Pancreatico-duodenalis.