513 CERVICAL aANGfilA. constitute the carotid plexus. They also form frequently a small gangliform swelling on the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The latter, however, is not constant. The continuation of the carotid plexus onwards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is the cavernous plexus. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication between all the cranial ganglia, and, being derived from the superior cervical gan- glion, between the cranial ganglia and those of the trunk: it also communicates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and dis- tributes filaments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, which accompany those branches in all their ramifications. The branches which accompany the anterior cerebral artery at each side unite upon the anterior communicating artery, and according to Ribes form a small ganglion, the ganglion of Ribes. The existence of this ganglion is disputed. The ophthalmic ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch which reaches it from the cavernous plexus. The spheno-palatine joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The submaxillary ganglion is brought into connexion with it by means of the otic ganglion, and the otic ganglion by means of the tympanic nerve and the Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the ophthalmic ganglion; frequently with the fourth in the formation of the nerve of the tentorium; with the Casserian gan- glion ; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ophthalmic ganglion; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno-palatine ganglion; and with the in- ferior maxillary, through the otic ganglion. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, which unite'^ with it as it crosses the cavernous sinus; it communicates with the facial and auditory nerve, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian; and with the glosso-pharyngeal by means of two filaments to the tympanic nerve. CERVICAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, of a reddish- grey colour, smooth, and of considerable thickness, extending from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bone to opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus major muscle. Its branches are divisible into superior, inferior, external, and in- ternal; to which mrybe added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The superior (carotid nerve) is a single branch which ascends by * Panizza, in Ms " Experimental Eesearches on the Nerves," denies this communication, and states very vaguely that "they are merely lost and en- twined around it."—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1836.