LATERAL THORACIC REGION, 241 while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in rais- ing the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expand- ing the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. All the muscles of this group are agents in forced respiration, but are in- capable of acting until the shoulders are fixed. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saAv ; costo-scapularis) broad, thin and trapezoid in shape, arises by nine fleshy serrations from the eight upper ribs, two of the serrations being attached to the second rib, and extends backwards upon the side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula upon its anterior aspect. In structure, the muscle is composed^ of three portions, a superior portion, formed by the serra- tions of the first two ribs, and inserted into the inner surface of the superior angle of the scapula; a middle portion, composed of the serrations connected with the third and fourth ribs, and inserted into the greater part of the posterior border; an inferior portion, con- sisting of'the last five serrations which indigitate with the obliquus externus and form a thick muscular fasciculus, which is inseii-ed into the scapula near its inferior angle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pectoralis major and minor, subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the ribs and intercostal muscles, to which it is connected by loose cellular tissue. Actions.—The serratus magnus is the great external inspiratory muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby increasing the cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula it draws the shoulder forwards, as we see to be the case in diseased lungs, where the chest has l5ecome almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis arises from the -whole of the under surface of the scapula excepting the superior and inferior angles, and terminates R