195 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. SWT face with the middle constrictor of the pharynx, lingualis, genio- hyo-glossns, lingual artery, and glosso-pharyugeal nerve. The Lingualis.—The fibres of this muscle (lingualis longitudi- nalis inferior) may be seen towards the apex of the tongue, issuing from the interval between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus; it is best examined by removing the preceding muscle. It consists of a small fasciculus of fibres, running longitudinally from the base, where it is attached to the os hyoides, to the apex of the tongue. By the outer border its fibres reach the plane of longitudinal fasci- culi of the stylo-glossus and lingualis superficialis; and by its under surface it is in relation with the ranine artery. * The other muscles entering into the structure of the tongue, are the lingualis longitudinalis superior vel superficialis; and the lin- gualis transversus. The lingualis superior forms a thin plane upon the upper surface of the organ, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. This layer is thicker in front than behind, and is covered posteriorly by a thin layer of transverse fibres derived from the hyo-glossus. The lingualis transversus constitutes the chief bulk of the tongue, it lies between the lingualis superior and inferior, its fibres being attached on the middle line to the fibre-car- tilaginous septum of the tongue, and laterally to the mucous mem- brane; some of the fibres being continuous with those of the stylo- glossus ' and hyo-glossus, and others being connected with the lesser cornua of the os hyoides. The Stylo-glossus arises from the apex of the styloid process and from the stylo-maxillary ligament; it divides upon the side of the tongue into two portions, one transverse, which passes transversely inwards between the two portions of the hyo-glossus, and is lost among the transverse fibres of the substance of the tongue, the other longitudinal, which spreads out upon the side of the tongue, and is prolonged forwards with the lingualis as far as its tip. Professor Hyrtl of Prague has described a fasciculus of this muscle arising from the outer side of the styloid process and inserted into the cartilage of the meatus auris, under the name of stylo-auricu- laris. He states that this muscle occurs in one out of every six bodies. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, gustatory nerve, parotid gland, sublingual gland, and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. By its internal surface with the tonsil, superior constrictor of the pharynx, and hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-glossus passes between the soft palate and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a projection of the mucous mem- brane, which is called the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Its fibres are spread out superiorly among the muscular fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, and inferiorly among the fibres of the stylo- glossus upon the side of the tongue. This muscle with its fellow constitutes the constrictor isthmi faucium. 0 2