COSTAL CAETILAGES. 78 an oval smooth surface divided by a transverse ridge into two facets for articulation with two contiguous vertebrae. The posterior sur- face of the neck is rough, for the attachment of the middle costo^ Fig. 43.* 3 transverse ligament; and upon its upper border is a crest, which gives attachment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The sternal extremity is flattened, and presents an oval depression, into which the costal cartilage is received. The ribs that demand especial consideration are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first is the shortest rib; it is broad and flat, and placed hori- zontally at the upper part of the thorax, the surfaces looking up- wards and downwards, m place of forwards and backwards as in the other ribs. At about the anterior third of the upper surface of the bone, and near its internal border, is a tubercle which gives attach- ment to the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before and behind this tubercle, a shallow oblique groove, the former for the subclavian vein, the latter for the subclavian artery. Near the pos- terior extremity of the bone is a thick and prominent tubercle, with a smooth articular surface for the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. There is no angle. Beyond the tubercle is a narrow constricted neck; and at the extremity a head, presenting a single articular surface. The second rib approaches in some of its charac- ters to the first. The tenth rib has a single articular surface on its head. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single articular surface on the head, no neck or tubercle, and are pointed at the free extremity. The eleventh has a slight ridge, representing the angle, and a shallow groove on the lower border; the twelfth has neither. Costal Cartilages.—The costal cartilages serve to prolong the * Vertebral extremity of the seventh rib of the right side. 1. The angle, marked by a groove for the tendon of the sacrolumbahs. 2. The tubercle. 3. Articular surface. 4. Neck of the rib. 5. Head, j)resenting two articular facets. 6. Eough surface for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament. 7. Crest for the anterior costo-transverse hgament. 8. Upper rounded border. 9. Lower sharp border. 10. Groove on the inner face of the lower border.