639 POKTAL CIRCULATION OP THE KIDNEYS. The Ureter {ovqov, urine, rrjpeiv, to keep), the excretory duct of the kidney, is a memlDranous tube of about the diameter of a goose-quill, and nearly eighteen inches in length; it is continuous superiorly with the pelvis of the kidney, and is constricted inferiorly, where it lies in an oblique direction between the muscular and mucous coat of the base of the bladder, and opens upon its mucous surface. Lying along the posterior wall of the abdomen, it is situated behind the peritoneum, and is crossed by the spermatic vessels; in its course downwards it rests against the anterior surface of the psoas, and crosses the common iliac artery and vein, and then the external iliac vessels. Within the pelvis it crosses the hypogastric cord and vas deferens in the male, and runs by the side of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina in the female. There are sometimes two ureters to one kidney. The ureter, the pelvis, the infundibula, and the calices are composed of two coats, an external or fibro-cellular coat, the tunica propria; and an internal mucous coat, which is con- tinuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder inferiorly, and with that of the tubuli uriniferi above. The cells of the epithelium are spheroidal. Vessels and Nerves.—The renal artery is derived from the aorta; it divides into several large branches before entering the hilum, and witliin the organ ramifies in an arborescent manner, terminating in nutrient twigs, and in the small inferent vessels of the corpora Mal- pighiana. In the Malpighian bodies the inferent vessels divide into several primary twigs, which subdivide into capillaries, and the capil- laries, after forming loops, converge to the efferent vein, which is generally smaller than the corresponding artery. The efferent veins proceed to and form a capillary venous plexus, which surrounds the tortuous tubuli uriniferi, and from this venous plexus the blood is conveyed, by converging branches, into the renal vein. "Thus," remarks Bowman, "there are in the kidney two per- fectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins; the first, that" which forms the vascular tuft in the Malpighian bodies, and is "in immediate connexion with the arteries; the second, that enveloping the convolutions of the tubes and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney." The inferences drawn by Bowman from his investigations are interesting; they are, that the capillary tufts of the Malpighian bodies are the part of the kidney specially acted on by diuretics; that they are the medium by which water, cer- tain salts, and other substances, pass out of the system; that they are, moreover, the means of escape of certain morbid products, such as sugar, albumen, and the red particles of the blood. Respecting the capillary venous plexus, we have proof that the principal proxi- mate constituents of urine, such as urea, lithic acid, &c., are, like the bile, derived from venous (portal) blood.