336 SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. passing between the latter. At its bifurcation it is covered in by the edge of the trapezius. The Cervicalis superficialis artery (cervicalis posterior) its as- cending branch, passes upwards under cover of the anterior border of the trapezius, and is distributed to the superficial muscles of the neck and deep cervical glands. The Posterior scapular artery (dorsalis scapulge, Tiedemann), th^ proper continuation of the transversa colli, passes backwards to the superior angle of the scapula, and then descends along the posterior border of that bone to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular artery. In its course it lies under cover of the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboidei muscles, distributes branches to them and neighbouring muscles, and inosculates with the arteries of the scapula and branches of the intercostal arteries. The cervicalis superficialis and posterior scapular artery some- times arise separately, the former from the thyroid axis, the latter from the third portion of the subclavian. By means of its numerous inosculations the transversa colli artery maintains an important anastomotic communication between the branches of the external carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The Superior intercostal artery (intercostalis suprema) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery behind the scalenus anticus, and descending in front of the necks of the first two ribs, sends intercostal branches to the first two intercostal spaces, and dorsal branches to the muscles and integument of the back. The artery lies behind the pleura, and to the outer side of the sym- pathetic nerve, and in the second intercostal space inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. It gives off the cervicalis profunda. The Cervicalis profunda artery (profunda cervicis) arises by a common trunk with the preceding, or, more properly, is a branch of the superior intercostal, corresponding with the posterior branch of the other intercostal arteries. It passes backwards between the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra, and ascends the back part of the neck, between the complexus and semispinalis colli muscle. It inosculates with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and with branches of the vertebral. Varieties of the subclavian arteries.-—Varieties in these arteries are rare; that which most frequently occurs is the origin of the right subclavian, from the left extremity of the arch of the aorta, below the left subclavian artery; The vessel, in this case, curves behind the oesophagus and right carotid artery, and sometimes between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib on the right side of the chest, where it assumes its ordinary course. In of subclavian aneurism on the right side above the clavicle, which happened during the summer of 1839, Mr. Listen proceeded to perform the operation of tying the carotid and subclavian arteries at their point of division from the innominata. Upon reach- ing the spot where the bifurcation should have existed, he found that there was no subclavian artery. With the admirable self-possession