267 ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The QuADRATUS PEMORis (square-sliaped) arises from the external border of the tuberosity of the ischium ; and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, which is thence named linea quadrati. Relations.—posterior surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface with the tendon of the obturator externus and trochanter minor, a synovial bursa often separating it from the latter. By its upper border with the gemellus inferior ; and by the lower border with the adductor magnus. Actions.—The glutei muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they steady the pelvis on the head of the femur; this action is peculiarly obvious in standing on one leg : they assist also in carrying the leg forward, in progression. The gluteus minimus being attached to the anterior border of the trochanter major, rotates the limb slightly inwards. The gluteus medius and maximus, from their insertion into the posterior aspect of the bone, rotate the limb outwards ; the latter is, moreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot; hence they are named external rotators. ' Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginge femoris, Vastus internus, Sartorius, Vastus externus, Rectus femoris, Crureus. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of Poupart's liga- ment, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubes ; and a second, from the middle of the preceding, down the inner side of the thigh, and across the inner condyle of the femur to the head of the tibia, where it may be bounded by a transverse incision. Turn back the integument from the whole of this region, and examine the superficial fascia; which is next to be removed in the same manner. After the deep fascia has been well considered, it is likewise to be removed, by dissecting it off in the course of the fibres of the muscles. As it might not be conve- nient to the junior student to expose so large a surface at once as ordered in this dissection, the vertical incision may be crossed by one or two transverse incisions, as may be deemed most proper. The Tensor vagina femoris (stretcher of the sheath of the thigh) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It arises from the crest of the ilium, near its anterior superior spinous process, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one-fourth down the thigh. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata and integument. By its deep surface with an internal layer of the