ORBITS. 64 and the nose. It is formed by part of the frontal bone and by the bones of the face. Superiorly it is bounded by the frontal eminences; beneath these are the superciliary ridges, converging towards the nasal tuberosity; beneath the superciliary ridges are the supra- orbital ridges, terminating externally in the external border of the orbit, and internally in the internal border, and j^resenting towards their inner third the supraorbital notch, -for the supraorbital nerve and artery. Beneath the supraorbital ridges are the openings of the orbits. Between the orbits is the bridge of the nose, over- arching the anterior nares; and on each side of this opening the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, the infraorbital foramen, and still farther outwards the prominence of the malar bone; at the lower margin of the anterior nares is the nasal spine, and beneath this the superior alveolar arch, containing the teeth of the upper jaw. Forming the lower boundary of the face is the lower jaw, containing in its alveolar process the lower teeth, and projecting inferiorly to form the chin; on either side of the chin is the mental foramen. If a perpendicular line be drawn from the inner third of the supraorbital ridge to the inner third of the body of the lower jaw, it will be found to intersect three openings ; the supraorbital, infraorbital, and mental, each giving passage to a facial branch of the fifth nerve. The orbits are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated in the upper part of the face, and intended for the reception of the eye- balls, "ttith their muscles, vessels, and nerves, and the lachrymal glands. The central axis of each orbit is directed outwards, so that the axes of the two, continued into the skull through the optic foramina, would intersect over the middle of the sella turcica. The mperim' boundary of the orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and part of the lesser wing of the sphenoid; the in- ferior, by part of the malar bone and the orbital processes of the superior maxillary and palate bone ; the internal, by the lachrymal bone, OS planum of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphe- noid ; and the external, by the orbital process of the malar bone and great ala of the sphenoid. These may be expressed more clearly in a tabular form :— ORBITS. Frontal. Sphenoid (lesser wing). Outer wall. Malar. Sphenoid (greater-wing). Inner wall. Orbit. Lachrymal. Ethmoid (os planum). Sphenoid (body). Malar. Superior MaxiUarj'. Palate.