TRIANGULARIS STERNI. 221 ternal oblique muscle of tlie abdomen. The two muscles cross each other in the direction of their fibres. In structure the intercostal muscles consist of an admixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. They arise from the two lips of the lower border of the ribs, the external from the outer lip, the internal from the inner; and are inserted into the upper border, encroaching somewhat on the surfaces. The SuBCOSTALES (infracostales; intracostales) are nine or ten small muscles situated within the thorax at its posterior part, and lying upon the ribs. They increase in size from above downwards, and the direction of their fibres corresponds with that of the inter- costales interni. Each muscle arises from the front of a rib, and is inserted into the front of the rib but one below; the first sub- costalis is often absent. Relations.—The external intercostals, by their external surface^ with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz., pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, serratus posticus superior and inferior, scalenus posticus, sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi with their continuations the cervicalis ascendens and transversalis cervicis, levatores costarum, and obliquus externus abdominis. By their internal surface with the internal intercostals, intercostal vessels and nerves, and posteriorly with the pleura, a thin aponeu- rosis being interposed. The internal intercostals, by their external surf ace,with, the external intercostals, and intercostal vessels and nerves;' by their internal surface with the pleura costalis, trian- g-ularis sterni, subcostales, and diaphragm. The Triangularis sterni (sterno-costalis), situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum, ensiform cartilage, and sternal ex- tremities of the costal cartilages from the third to the sixth or seventh; it is inserted by fleshy digitations into the second, third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages and corresponding ribs. Relations.—By its external mr/ace'with the sternum, ensiform cartilage, costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary vessels. By its internal surface with the pleura costalis, cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, and diaphragm. The lower fibres of the triangularis sterni are continuous with those of the transversalis abdominis. A ctions. —The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is therefore an expiratory muscle.