484 CERVICAL PLEXUS, The Auricularis magnus, the largest of tlie tliree ascending branches of the cervical plexus, also proceeds from the second and third cervical nerve; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends upon that muscle, lying parallel with the external jugular vein, to the parotid gland, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch is distributed to the integument over the parotid gland, and to the gland itself, communicating with the facial nerve. The posterior branch ascends behind the ear where it divides into auricular branches, distributed to the pinna; and a mastoid branch which communicates v/ith the posterior auricular branch of the facial and is distributed to the integument behind the ear. The auricular branches communicate with the auricular offsets of the facial and pneumogastric nerve, and occipitalis minor. The Occipitalis minor arises from the second cervical nerve; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid above the I)receding, and ascends upon that muscle, parallel with its posterior border, to the lateral and posterior aspect of the cranium. It is distributed to the integument of this region and to the occipito- frontalis and attoUens aurem, and communicates with the occipitalis major, auricularis magnus, and posterior auricular branch of the facial. Superficial descending branches.—The Acromiales and Clavicu- lares are two or three large nerves which proceed from the fourth cervical nerve, and pass downwards in the posterior triangle of the neck; they then pierce the deep fascia, and crossing the clavicle, are distributed to the integument of the front of the chest from the sternum to the acromion : hence their designation, claviculares and acromiales. The most anterior of the branches is named sternal, from its destination, and the outermost branch passes over the cla- vicular attachment of the trapezius, to reach the shoulder. Deep Branches.—The CommunicaMng branches are filaments which arise from the loop between the first and second cervical nerve, and pass inwards to communicate with the sympathetic, pneumo- gastric, and hypo-glossal nerve. The first three cervical nerves send branches to the first cervical ganglion; the fourth sends a branch to the trunk of the sympathetic, or to the middle cervical ganglion. From the second cervical nerve a large branch is given off, which goes to join the spinal accessory nerve. The Communicans noni is a long and slender branch of commu- nication between the cervical plexus and descendens noni; it is formed by filaments from the second and third cervical nerve; descends on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and forms a loop with the descendens noni over the sheath of the carotid vessels. The Muscidar branches of the cervical plexus are distributed to the muscles of the front of the vertebral column and side of the neck. From the loop, between the first and second nerve, branches