236 MUSCLES OP THE PERINEUM. by sa-R-ing through the pubes a little to one side of the symphysis, separating the bones behind at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and turn- ing down the bladder and rectum. The pelvic fascia is then to be carefully raised, beginning at the base of the bladder and proceeding upwards, until the whole extent of the muscle is exposed. The Levator ani is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated on each side of the pelvis. The muscle arises from the inner sui-face of the OS pubis near the pubic arch, from the base and upper border of the spine of the ischium, and between these points, from a tendinous arch which occupies the line of division of the pelvic fascia into obturator fascia and recto-vesical fascia. Its fibres descend to be inserted into its fellow of the opposite side beneath the prostate gland, into the rectum, and behind the rectum into its fellow of the opposite side and the side of the extremity of the coccyx. In the female this muscle has an additional insertion into the vagina. Relations.—By its external or perineal surface, with, a thin layer of fascia, by which, and by the obturator fascia, it is separated fr^om the obutrator internus muscle; with the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa, triangular ligament, sphincter ani, and posteriorly with the gluteus maximus. By its internal or pelvic surface with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and fr'om the peritoneum. The CoccYGEUs muscle is thin and triangular. It arises from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, and spreads out to be inserted into the side of the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. Relations.—itsinternal orptelmc surface with the cavity of the pelvis; by its external surface with the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament; and by its borders, with the pyriformis above and levator ani below. The Sacro-coccygeus anticus (curvator coccygis), the analogue of an important muscle in brutes, but rudimentary in man, and more tendinous than fleshy in structure, is a small muscle which arises from the side of the last piece of the sacrum and first of the coccyx ; and is inserted into the front of the last piece of the coccyx in common with its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it gives lateral ofi"- sets to the outer side of the second and third pieces of the coccyx. Female Perineum.—The muscles of the perineum in the female are the same as in the male, and have received analogous names. They are smaller in size, and are modified to suit the different form of the organs; they are Constrictor vaginre. Compressor urethrse, Erector clitoridis, Sphincter ani, Transversus perinei. Levator ani, Coccygeus. The Constrictor vagina is analogous to the accelerator lu'inae of the male ; it arises from the tendinous centre of the perineum, where