SEBIPAROUS GLANDS.—SUDORIPAROUS GLANDS. 561 cells compared with the fibres and scales into which they are sub- sequently converted in the shaft. The colour of the hair, like that of the epiderma, is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of the cells. The Sebiparous glands are sacculated glandular organs embedded in the substance of the derma, and presenting every variety of com- plexity, from the simplest pouch-like follicle to the sacculated and lobulated gland. In some situations, the excretory ducts of these glands open independently on the surface of the epiderma; while in others, and the most numerous, they terminate in the follicles of the hairs. The sebiparous glands associated with the hairs are racemiform and lobulated in structure, consisting of sacculi which open by short pedunculated tubuli into a common excretory duct, and the latter, after a short course, terminates in the hair-follicle. In the scalp there are two of these glands to each hair-follicle. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and constantly associated with small hair-follicles. In the meatus auditorius the sebiparous (ceruminous) glands are also large and lobulated; in the eyelids the cilia are supplied like other hairs with sebiparous glands, but the Meibomian glands may also be regarded as belonging to this class, The excretory ducts of sebiparous glands offer some diversity in different parts of the body: thus, in many situations they are short and straight, while in others, as in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the epiderma is thick, they assume a spiral arrangement. The sebiferous ducts are lined by an inversion of the epiderma, which forms a thick and funnel-shaped cone at its com- mencement, but soon becomes uniform and soft. Sebiparous glands are met with in all parts of the body, but are most abundant in the skin of the face, and in those situations which are naturally exposed to the influence of friction. The sebaceous substance when it collects in inordinate quantities within the excretory ducts becomes the habitat of a remarkable parasitic animal, the steatozoon folliculorum. The Sudoriparous glands are situated deeply in the corium and also in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, where they are surrounded by adipose cells. They are small oblong bodies, composed of one or more convohited tubuli, or of a congeries of globular sacs, which open into a common efferent duct. The latter ascends from the gland through the derma and epiderma, and terminates on the surface by a funnel-shaped and oblique aperture or pore. The efferent duct presents some variety in its course upwards : thus within the derma it is curved and serpentine, and if the epiderma be thin, it proceeds more or less directly to the excreting pore. Sometimes it is spirally curved within the derma, and having passed the latter, is regularly and beautifully spiral in its passage through the epiderma, the last turn forming an oblique and valvular opening on the surface. The spiral course of the duct is especially remarkable in the thick epiderma of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. On those parts of the 0 0