EXTENSOE PROPEIUS POLLICIS. 277 second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of insertion of the extensor tendons, both in the hand and in the foot, is remarkable; each tendon spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the first phalanx; this aponeurosis is strengthened on its borders by the insertion of the lumbricales and interossei, and divides into three slips; the middle slip is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral slips are continued onwards, to be in- serted into the base of the third. Relations.—By its anterior swrface, with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula, ankle-joint, extensor brevis digitorum (which separates its tendons from the tarsus) meta- tarsus and phalanges. By its inmer surface, with the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels. By its outer border with the peroneus longus and brevis. The Peroneus tertitjs (flexor tarsi fibularis) arises from the lower fourth of the fibula and intermuscular fascia, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Although apparently but a mere division or continuation of the extensor longus digitorum, this muscle may be looked upon as analogous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the forearm. Sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Extensor proprius pollicis (extensor hallucis longus) lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula and interosseous mem- brane. ' Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula, tibia, ankle-joint, extensor brevis digitorum, and the bones and articulations of the great toe. It is crossed upon this aspect by the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side with the extensor longus digitorum, and in the foot with the dorsalis pedis artery and veins; the outer side of its tendon upon the dorsum of the foot being the guide to these vessels. By its inner side with the tibialis anticus, and anterior tibial vessels. Actions.—^The tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius are direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg; acting in conjunction with the tibialis posticus they direct the foot inwards, and with the peroneus longus and brevis outwards. They assist also in preserving the flatness of the foot during progression. The extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius pollicis are direct extensors of the phalanges; but, continuing their action, they assist the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, in flexing the entire foot upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, they increase the stability of the ankle.