488 MTJSCULO-CUTANEOUS NEKVE. the side of the chest, and descends upon the serratus magnus to the lower part of that muscle, to which it is distributed. The Superior muscular nerves are some small branches to the longus colli and scaleni; and branches to the rhomboidei and sub- clavius muscle. The Rhomboid branch proceeds from the fifth cervical nerve, and passing backwards through the fibres of the scalenus medius, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae, is distributed to the under sur- face of the rhomboid muscles. In its course it sometimes gives a branch to the levator anguli scapulae. The Subclavian branch proceeds from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and descends in front of the subclavian artery to the subclavius muscle. This nerve usually communicates with the phrenic at its entrance into the chest. The Suprascapular nerve arises from the fifth cervical nerve, and proceeds obliquely outwards to the suprascapular notch ; it then passes through the notch, crosses the supra-spinous fossa beneath the supra-spinatus muscle, and running in front of the concave mar- gin of the spine of the scapula enters the infra-spinous fossa. It is distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscle, and sends two or three filaments to the shoulder-joint. The Subscapular nerves are three in number; one arises from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, the others from the posterior cord of the plexus within the axilla. The first or smallest supplies the upper part of the subscapularis muscle ; the second and largest (Jong subscapular) follows the course of the subscapular artery, and is distributed to the latissimus dorsi; the third is distributed to the lower part of the subscapularis muscle and teres major. Brachial nerves.—The brachial branches of the plexus are ar- ranged in the following order : the musculo-cutaneous, and one head of the median to the outer side of the artery ; the other head of the median, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and ulnar, upon its inner side; and the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The Musculo-cutaneous nerve (external cutaneous, perforans Casserii) arises from the brachial plexus in common with the external head of the median ; pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus to the outer side of the bend of the elbow, where it perforates the fascia, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. These branches pass behind the median cephalic vein, the anterior the larger of the two, taking the course of the radial vein and communicating with the radial nerve on the back of the hand ; the posterior and smaller following the di- rection of the supinator longus, communicating with the internal cutaneous, and at the lower third of the forearm sending ofi" a twig, which accompanies the radial artery to the wrist, and distributes filaments to the synovial membranes of the joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps