266 MUSCLES OP THE GLUTEAL REGION. anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of bone around the obturator foramen and to the obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacroischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. The lesser sacroischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its movements. The tendon of the obturator is supported on each side by the gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are inserted into the sides of its tendon, and appear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions, external origins in fact of the obturator internus. Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the internal pudic vessels and nerve, the obturator fascia, which sepa- rates it from the levator ani and viscera of the pelvis, the sacro- ischiatic ligaments, gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep or anterior surface with the obturator membrane and the margin of bone surrounding it, the cartilaginous pulley of the lesser ischiatic foramen, external surface of the pelvis, and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. By its upper border within the pelvis, with the obturator vessels and nerve ; externally to the pelvis, with the gemellus superior. By its lower border with the gemellus inferior. The Gemellus inferior arises from the posterior point of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Relations. —By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the external surface of the pelvis, and capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the tendon of the obturator internus. By its loioer border with the tendon of the obturator externus and qua- dratus femoris. In this region the tendon only of the obturator externus can be seen; it is situated deeply between the gemellus inferior and upper border of the quadratus femoris. To expose the muscle fully, it is necessary to dissect it on the anterior part of the thigh, after the removal of the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis. The Obturator externus muscle (obturare, to stop up) arises from the obturator membrane and from the surface of the bone immediately surrounding it anteriorly, viz. from the ramus of the pubes and ischium : its tendon passes behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted with the external rotator muscles, into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial or anterior surface with the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and magnus, obturator vessels and nerve. By its deep or posterior sur- face with the obturator membrane and margin of bone which sur- rounds it, the lower part of the capsule of the hip-joint and qua- dratus femoris.