198 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. its upper border and the basilar process; some of its lower fibres are contiauous with those of the genio-hyo-glossus on the side of the tongue; and it is overlapped inferiorly by the middle constrictor. Between the side of the pharynx and the ramus of the lower jaw is a triangular interval, the maxillo-pharyngeal space, which is bounded on the inner side by the superior constrictor muscle; on the outer side by the internal pterygoid muscle; and behind by the rectus anticus major and vertebral column. In this space are situ- ated the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and hypo-glossal nerve. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column and muscles of the latter, behind; with the vessels and nerves con- tained in the maxillo-pharyngeal space laterally, and with the middle constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and tensor palati. By its in- ternal surface with the levator palati, palato-pharyngeus, tonsil, and mucous membrane of the pharynx, the pharyngeal fascia being interposed. The Stylo-phartngeus (levator seu dilatator pharyngis) is a long and slender muscle arising from the inner side of the base of the styloid process; it descends between the superior and middle con- strictor muscle, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx; it is inserted partly into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, and partly into the internal face of the inferior constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface vnth. the stylo-glossus muscle, external carotid artery, parotid gland, and middle constrictor. By its internal surface with the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior constrictor, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous mem- brane. Along its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which crosses it opposite the root of the tongue, to pass between the superior and middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus. Associated in function with the preceding is a small muscle, not always present, the salpingo*-pharyngeus (levator pharyngeus in- ternus), which arises from the lower border of the Eustachian tube near its aperture, and passes down upon the inner surface of the side of the pharynx, where it becomes united with the palato-pharyngeus. The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft palate. It arises from the soft palate, and is inserted into the inner surface of the pharjmx, and posterior border of the thyroid cartUage. Actions.—The three constrictor muscles are important agents in deglutition; they contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by the pharynx, and convey it downwards into the oeso- phagus. The stylo-pharyngei draw the pharynx upwards, and widen it laterally. The palato-pharyngei also draw it upwards, and with tlie aid of the uvula close the opening of the fauces. The salpingo- pharyngei are elevators of the upper part of the phaiynx. * (raXTTiy^, a tube.