METATARSAL BONES. 110 If the bone be held so that the square extremity look upwards, and the sharp border backwards, the bevelled surface will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. AHiculations.-—With six bones: scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the flexor brevis pollicis. The Cuboid bone is irregularly cuboid in form, and marked upon its under surface by a deep groove, for the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination, six surfaces, three articular, and three non-articular. The non-articular surfaces are the superior, which is slightly convex, and assists in forming the dorsum of the foot; the inferior, marked by a prominent ridge, the tuberosity, and a deep groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus; and an external, the smallest of the whole, and deeply notched by the commencement of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are, the posterior, which is of large size, and concavo-convex, to articulate with the os calcis; antenor, of smaller size, divided by a slight ridge into two facets, for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones; and internal, a small oval articular facet, upon a large and quad- rangular surface, for the external cuneiform bone. If the bone be held so that the plantar surface, with the peroneal groove, look downwards, and the largest articular surface backwards, the small non-articular surface, marked by the deep notch, will point to the side corresponding with the foot to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With/ottr bones : os calcis, external cuneiform, and fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, sometimes also with the scaphoid. Attachment of Muscles.—To two: flexor brevis pollicis, and adductor pollicis. Upon a consideration of the articulations of the tarsus it will be observed, that each bone articulates with four adjoining bones, with the exception of the calcaneum which articulates with two, and the external cuneiform with six. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, with the excep- tion of the OS calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior tube- rosity. The centres appear in the following order; calcanean, sixth month ; astragalan, seventh month ; cuboid, tenth month; external cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform, during the third year; middle cuneiform and scaphoid, during the fourth year. The epiphysis of the calcaneum appears at the ninth year and is united with the diaphysis at about the fifteenth. The Metatarsal bones, five in number, are long bones, and divisible therefore into a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is prismoid, and compressed from side to side; the posterior extremity, or base, is square-shaped, to articulate with the tarsal bones, and