606 LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine (intestinum crassum vel amplum) five or six feet and sometimes more in length, prismoid in form, sacculated and thicker than the small intestine, tapers gradually from above down- wards, and is divided into the ccecum, colon, and rectum. The Ccecum (caput coli) is the blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, about two inches in length, situated at the commencement of the large intes- tine. It is lodged in the right iliac fossa, and retained in its place by the peritoneum which passes over its anterior surface; its constitute a meso-c^cum, which permits of an usual degree of move- ment in this portion of the intestine, and serves to explain the occur- rence of hernia of the csscum upon the right side. The caecum is the most dilated portion of the large intestine. The Colon is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards (flexura dextravel hepatica) and crosses the upper part * The caecum, showing its appendix, the entrance of the Ueum, and the ileo-CBecal valve. 1. The cseeum. 2. Commencement of the colon. 3. Ileum. 4s. Apertm^e of entrance of the ileum into the caecum. 5, 5. Ileo-caecal valve. 6. Aperture of the appendix vermiformis caeci. 7. Appendix vermiformis. 8,8. Sacculi of the colon, separated by valvular septa. 9. Falciform fraenum of the appendix vermiformis. r Fiff. 205.* posterior surface is connected by loose cellular tissue with the iliac fascia. Attached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudi- ment of the lengthened caecum found in all mamnaiferous animals except man and the higher qua- drumana. The appendix varies in length from one to five or six inches ; it is about equal in dia- ineter to a goose-quill, and is con- nected with the posterior and left ispect of the caecum near the ex- tremity of the ileum. It is usually in ore or less coiled upon itself, md retained in that coil by a fal- iiform duplicature of peritoneum. I ts canal is extremely small, and ihe orifice by which it opens into the caecum not unfrequently pro- vided with an incomplete v^alve. Occasionally the peritoneum in- vests the caecum so completely as to