DIAPHEAGMA. 231 tical shape (oesophageal), and are then lost in the central tendon. In the decussation between the aortic and oesophageal opening the fibres of the right internal pillar are generally the most superficial. Between the lumbar and costal portion of the diaphragm on each side is a triangular interval like that between the costal and sternal portion, closed only by cellular tissue and the serous membranes of the two cavities. The ligamentum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch thrown across the upper part of the psoas muscle from the side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex of its transverse process, extending sometimes also to that of the second. Beneath this arch the psoas magnus emerges from the chest. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is a tendinous band ex- tended from the apex of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the lower border of the last rib. It forms an arch across the quadratus lumborum and is continuous with the sheath of that muscle derived from the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. The tendinous centre of the diaphragm is shaped like a trefoil leaf, of which the central leaflet points to the ensiform cartilage, and is the largest; the lateral leaflets, right and left, occupy the corresponding portions of the muscle; the right being the larger and more rounded, the left smaller and lengthened in its form. The 0(penings in the diaphragm are three : one, quadrilateral, in the tendinous centre, at the union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior vena cava ; a muscular opening of an elliptical shape formed by the internal pillars, for the transmission of the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves ; a third, the aortic, which is formed by a tendinous arch thrown from the tendon of one pillar to that of the other, beneath which pass the aorta and thoracic duct. The great splanchnic nerve passes through th£ diaphragm between the internal and middle pillar of the crus ; and the trunk of the sympathetic and vena azygos between the middle and external pillar. The lesser splanchnic nerve escapes between those fibres of the external pUlar which proceed from the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Relations.—By its superior surf ace with, thepleurse, pericardium, heart, and lungs. By its inferior surface with the peritoneum; an the left with the stomach and spleen; on the right with the con- vexity of the liver; and behind with the kidneys, supra-renal capsules, duodenum, and solar plexus. By its circumference with the ribs and intercostal muscles, and vertebral column. Actions.—The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the opposite side. Both muscles, acting together, flex the thorax directly on the pelvis. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest down- wards and outwards: both together bend it directly forwards. Either transversalis muscle, acting singly, will diminish the size of