190 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by removitig the deep fascia from off the front of the neck between the two sterno- mastoid muscles. The omo-hyoid to be seen in its whole extent requires that the stemo-mastoid muscle be divided from its origin and .turned aside. The Sterno-hyoideus is a narrow, riband-like muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and from the posterior stemo-clavicular ligament (sometimes from the inner extremity of the clavicle, and sometimes from the cartilage of the first rib). It is inserted into the lower border of the os hyoides. The sterno-hyoidei are separated by a considerable interval at the root of the neck, approach each other as they ascend, and are again separated on the thyroid cartilage; they are frequently traversed below by a tendinous intersection. Relations.—By its external surface with the deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides and sterno-mastoid muscle ; by its internal swface with the sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the superior thyroid artery. The Sterno-thyroideus, broader than the preceding beneath which it lies, arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and from the cartilage of the first rib ; it is inserted into the oblique line on the great ala of the thyroid cartilage. The inner borders lie in contact along the middle line, and the muscles are marked by a tendinous intersection at their lower part. Some of the fibres of this muscle are continued directly into the thyro- hyoideus without intervening attachment, while others are continuous with the inferior constrictor. Relations.—Bj its external surface vnth. the sterno-hyoid, omo- hyoid, and stemo-mastoid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the trachea, inferior-thyroid veins, thyroid gland, lower part of the larynx, sheath of the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, subclavian vein and vena innominata, and on the right side with the arteria innominata. The middle thyi'oid vein lies along its inner border. The Thyro-hyoideus is the continuation upwards of the sterno- thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and into the great cornu of the os hyoides for one half its length. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscle; by its internal surface with the great ala of the thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoidean membrane, and superior laryngeal artery and nerve. The Omo-hyoideus {(ofiog, shoulder) is a double-bellied muscle passing obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os hyoides; it forms an obtuse angle behind the sterno-mastoid, and is retained in that position by means of a process of the deep cervical fascia which forms a sheath for the tendon and holds it in connexion with the sternum and first rib. It arises from the upper border of