115 ARTICULATIONS. partly connected by interosseous ligaments, or by the intervention of -an elastic fibro-cartilage which adheres to the ends of both bones. Examples of this mode of articulation are seen in the union between the bodies of the vertebrae, the sacrum with the coccyx, the pieces of the sternum, the sacro-iliac and pubic symphysis {avv (pveiv, to grow together), and according to some, the necks of the ribs, with the transverse processes. DiARTHROSis {did, through, apOpaxrig) is the movable articulation, which constitutes by far the greater number of the joints of the body. The degree of motion in this class has given rise to a subdivision into three genera, Arthrodia, Gringlymus, and Enarthrosis. Arthrodia is the movable joint in which the extent of motion is slight and limited, as in the articulations of the clavicle, ribs, articular processes of the vertebrae, axis with the atlas, radius with the ulna, fibula with the tibia, carpal and metacarpal, tarsal and metatarsal bones. Ginglymus {yiyyXvfxdg, a hinge), or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz. forwards and backwards; but the degree of motion may be very considerable. The instances of this form of joint are numerous; they comprehend the elbow, wrist, metacarpo-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity; the knee, ankle, metatarso-phalangeal and pha- langeal joints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also be admitted into this category, as partaking more of the character of the hinge-joint than of the less movable arthrodia. The form of the ginglymoid joint is somewhat quadrilateral, each of its four sides being provided with a ligament, which is named from its position, anterior, posterior, internal, or external lateral. The lateral ligaments are thick and strong, and the chief bond of union between the bones. The anterior and posterior are thin and loose in order to permit the required extent of movement. Enarthrosis (kv, in, dpOpuxng) is the most extensive in its range ■ of motion of all the movable joints. From the manner of connection and form of the bones in this articulation, it is called the ball-and- socket joint. There are two instances in the body, viz. the hip and the shoulder, I have been in the habit of adding to the preceding the carpo- metacarpal articulation of the thumb, although not strictly a ball- and-socket joint, from the great extent of motion which it enjoys, and from the nature of the ligament connecting the bones. As far as the articular surfaces are concerned, it is rather a double than a single ball-and-socket; and the whole of these considerations remove it from the simple arthrodial and ginglymoid groups. The ball-and-socket joint has a circular form; and, in place of the four distinct ligaments of the ginglymus, is enclosed in a bag of liga- mentous membrane, called a capsular ligament. The kinds of articulation may probably be conveyed in a more satisfactory manner in the tabular form, thus : I 2