STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 626 the rounded prominences of the periphery. The intralobular vein thus constituted takes its course through the centre of the longitu- dinal axis of the lobule, pierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sublobular vein. The periphery of the lobule, with the ex- ception of its base, which is always closely attached to a sublobular vein, is connected by means of its cellular capsule with the capsular surfaces of surrounding lobules. The interval between the lobules is the interlobular fissure, and the angular interstices formed by the apposition of several lobules are the interlobular spaces. The lobules of the centre of the liver are angular, and somewhat smaller than those of the surface, from the greater compression to which they are submitted. The superficial lobules are incomplete, and give to the surface of the organ the appearance and all the ad- vantages resulting from an examination of a transverse section. " Each lobule is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch (intra- lobular) of an hepatic vein, and of minute arteries ; nerves and ab- sorbents, it is to be presumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them." " Examined with the microscope, a lobule is apparently composed of numerous minute bodies of a yellowish colour and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi." "If an uninjected lobule be examined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identical with the injected lobular biliary plexus in the latter, and the blood-vessels in both will be easily distinguished from the In ultimate structure the lobules are composed of nucleated cells, centre to the circumference of the lobule. Glisson's capsule is the cellulo-fibrous tissue which envelopes the hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, during their passage through the right border of the lesser omentum, and which continues * The Anatomy and Physiology of the Liver, by Mr. Kiernan, Phil. Trans. 1833, from which thig and the other paragraphs within inverted commas, on the structure of the Hver, are quoted. t Hepatic cells, magnified 310 times, and drawn with the camera lucida. ducts. Mg. 221.t hepatic cells, or corpuscles, which are polyhedral in shape, about -t Q of an inch in diameter, and of a delicate amber colour. The nucleus in their interior is dis- tinct and nucleolated, and, like other parent cells, the rest of the cavity is filled with secondary cells and granules; sometimes they also contain oil globules. The hepatic cells are arranged in rows which radiate from the