549 MODIOLUS—LAMINA SPIRALIS, a mem- lamina Fig. 188. the fresli subject is prolonged to the opposite wall by means of branous layer, so as to constitute a complete partition, the spiralis. The osseous lamina spiralis consists of two thin la- mellae of bone, between which, and through the perforations on their surfaces, the filaments of the cochlear nerve reach the membrane of the cochlea. At the apex of the cochlea, the lamina spiralis terminates by a pointed, hook-shaped process, the hamulus laminse spiralis. The two scalaa of the cochlea, which are completely separated through- out their length in the living ear, communicate superiorly, over * The labyrintli of the left ear, laid open, in order to show its cavities and the membranouslabyrinth. AfterBre- schet. 1. The cavity of the vestibule, opened from its anterior aspect in orderto showthethree-cornered form of its interior, and the membranous labyrinthwhichit contains. The figure rests on the common saccule of the membranous labyrinth, the sacculus com- munis. 2. Ampulla of the superior or perpendicular semicircular canal, receiv- ing a nervous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve, 3. 4. Superior or perpendicular canal with its contained membranous canal. 5. AmpuUa of the inferior or horizontal semicircular canal, recei^dng a nerv- ous fasciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve. 6. Termina- tion of the membranous canal of the horizontal semicircular canal in the sacculus communis. 7. Ampulla of the middle or obhque semicii-cular canal, receiving a nervous fascicukis from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve. 8. Obhque semicircular canal with its membranous canal. 9. The common canal, resulting from the union of the perpendicular with the oblique semicircular canal. 10. Membranous common canal terminating in the sacculus communis. 11. The otoconite of the sacculus communis seen through the membranous parietes of that sac. A nervous fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve is seen to be distributed to the sacculus com- munis near the otoconite. The extremity of the sacculus above the otoconite is lodged in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and that below it in the inferior ventricle. 12. The sacculus proprius situated in the anterior ven- tricle ; its otoconite is seen through its membranous parietes, and a nervous fasciculus derived from the middle branch of the vestibular nerve is distri- buted to it. The spaces around the membranous labyrinth are occupied by the aqua labyrinthi. 13. First turn of the cochlea; the figure points to the scala tympani. 14. Extremity of the scala tympani, the fenestra rotunda. 15. Lamina spirahs; the figure is situated in the scala vestibuli. 16. Opening of the scala vestibuli into the vestibule. 17. Second turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed on the lamina spiralis, and therefore in the scala vestibuh, the scala tympani being beneath the lamina. 18. Remaining half turn of the cochlea; the figure is placed in the scala tympani. 19. The lamina spirahs terminating in its falciform extremity. The dark space included Avithin the falciform curve of the extremity of the lamina spirahs is the hehcotrema. 20. The infundibulum.