355 INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. duced. By means of these arches a direct communication is esta- blished between all the branches given off from the convexity of the superior mesenteric artery; the upper branch inosculates with the inferior pancreatico-duodenalis; the lower with the ileo-colica. The Ileo-colic artery is the last branch given off from the con- cavity of the superior mesenteric. It descends to the right iliac fossa, and divides into branches which communicate and form arches, from which branches are distributed to the termination of the ileum, the caecum, and the commencement of the colon. This artery in- osculates on the one hand with the termination of the mesenteric trunk, and on the other with the colica dextra. The Colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passing outwards behind the peri- toneum, divides into branches which form arches, and are distri- buted to the ascending colon. Its descending branches inosculate with the ileo-colica, the ascending with the colica media. The Colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passes forward between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, where it forms arches, and is distri- buted to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra ; and on the left with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery. Thfe Spermatic arteries (spermaticas intemae) are two small vessels which arise from the front of the aorta below the superior mesenteric ; from this origin each artery passes obliquely out- wards, and accompanies the corresponding ureter along the front of the psoas muscle to the border of the pelvis, where it is in re- lation with the external iliac artery. It is then directed outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and follows the course of the sper- matic cord along the spermatic canal and through the scrotum to the testicle, to which it is distributed. The right spermatic artery lies in front of the vena cava, and both vessels are accompanied by their corresponding veins and by the spermatic plexuses of nerves. The spermatic arteries in the female (ovarian) descend into the pelvis and pass between the two layers of the broad ligaments of the uterus, to be distributed to the broad ligaments, ovaries. Fallopian tubes, and round ligaments ; along the latter they are continued to the inguinal canal and labium on each side. They inosculate with the uterine arteries. The Inferior mesenteric artery (mesenterica inferior), smaller than the superior, arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of that vessel, and descends between the layers of the left mesocolon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches: Colica sinistra, Sigmoidea, Hfemorrhoidalis superior. A A 2