502 SACRAL NERVES. externiis follows tlie course of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery ; the branch to the criireus passes directly to that muscle; and the branch to the ixistus internus, remarkable for its length, descends by the side of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The Articular branches are distributed to the knee-joint; one enters the joint on its outer side, being derived from the nerve of the vastus externus ; the other, proceeding from the nerve of the vastus internus, descends with the anastomotica magna to a level with the joint, and then pierces the capsular ligament. The LrMBO-SACRAL nerve.—The anterior division of the fifth lumbar nerre, conjoined with a branch from the fourth, constitutes the lumbo-sacral nerve, which descends over the base of the sacrum into the pelvis, and assists in forming the sacral plexus. SACRAL nerves. There are five pairs of sacral nerves ; the first four escape from the vertebral canal through the sacral foramina, and the last between the sacrum and coccyx. The posterior sacral nerves are small, and diminish in size from above downwards; they communi- cate with each other by means of anastomosing loops immediately after their escape fi-om the posterior sacral foramina, and divide like the other spinal neiwes into external and internal branches. The external branches pierce the gluteus maximus, to which they give filaments, and are distributed to the integument of the pos- terior part of the gluteal region. The internal branches supply the multifidus spinas muscle and the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above down- wards ; the frst is large, and unites with the lumbo-sacral nerve; the second, of equal size, unites with the fii'st; and the third, scarcely one-fourth so large as the second, joins with the two pre- ceding nerves in the formation of the sacral plexus. The fovj'th sacral nerve divides into two branches, one of M^hich assists in forming the sacral plexus, the other separates into three branches: a communicating branch to unite with the fifth sacral nerve ; a visceral branch, to join with the hypogastric plexus and supply the bladder and prostate gland, and in the female, the vagina ; and a muscular branch which sends filaments to the levator ani and coccygeus and a.n hcE?norrhoidal branch to the sphincter ani and integument behind the anus. The fifth sacral nerve, issuing from between the sacrum and coccyx, pierces the coccygeus muscle, and receives the communi- cating branch from the fourth ; it then communicates with the coccygeal nerve, and piercing the coccygeus a second time, is dis- tributed to the integument over the dorsal surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve pierces the coccygeus muscle, and unites with the fifth sacral nerve, in which it is lost.