469 ABDUCENTES.—FACIAL NERVE. On the hyo-glossTis muscle several branches of comnninication join with brandies of the hypoglossal nerve, and others are sent to the sublingual gland, Wharton's duct, and mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. Sixth pair, abducentes.—The abducens nerve, about half the size of the motor oculi, arises by several filaments from the upper constricted part of the corpus pyramidale, close to the pons Varolii. Proceeding forwards from this origin, it lies parallel with the basilar artery, and, piercing the dura mater upon the clivus Blumenbachii of the sphenoid bone, ascends beneath that membrane to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forward in the outer wall of the sinus below the level of the other nerves, and, resting against the internal carotid artery, to the sphenoidal fissure. Entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure it passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. At the sphenoidal fissure it lies upon the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater; and in the cavernous sinus it is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus. Mr. Mayo traced the origin of this nerve between the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia to the posterior part of the medulla ob- longata ; and Mr. Grainger pointed out its connexion with the grey substance of the spinal cord. Seventh pair.—The seventh pair consists of two nerves* which lie side by side on the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. The smaller and most internal of these, and at the same time the most dense in texture, is the facial nerve or portio dura. The external nerve, which is s^t and pulpy, and often grooved by contact with the preceding, is the auditory nerve or portio mollis of the seventh pair. Soemmering makes the auditory nerve the eighth pair; but, retaining the classification of Willis, we regard it as a part of the seventh. Facial nerve (portio dura).—The facial nerve, the motor nerve of the face, arises from the upper part of the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme close to the pons Varolii, from which point its fibres may be traced deeply into the corpus restiforme. The nerve then passes forward, resting on the crus cerebelli, and comes into relation with the auditory nerve, with which it enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying at first to the inner side of, and * A third nerve of small size, the portio intermedia of Wrisberg, is brought into view by separating these two trunks. The researches of Dr. Morganti go to show that the portio intermedia is connected, at its origin in the corpus restiforme, with the auditory nerve; that it is the posterior or sensitive root of the facial; that the mtumescentia gangliformis of the facial is the - ganglion of this root; that it bestows the principal part of the sensitive func- tion on the facial; and that the chorda tympani is partly derived from the intumescentia gangliformis.