384 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. veins, and in the veins of the viscera, as in the portal and cerebral veins; they are also absent in the large trunks, as in the vense cavee, vense azygos, innominatse, and iliac veins. Sinuses are venous channels, excavated in the structure of an organ, and lined by the internal coat of the veins; of this structure are the sinuses of the dura mater, whose external covering is the fibrous tissue of the membrane, and the internal, the serous layer of the veins. The external investment of the sinuses of the uterus is the tissue of that organ; and that of the bones^ the lining mem- brane of the cells and canals. Veins, like arteries, are supplied with nutritious vessels, the vasa vasorum; and it is to be presumed that nervous filaments are dis- tributed in their coats. I shall describe the veins according to the primary division of the body; taking first, those of the head and neck; next, those of the upper extremity; then, those of the lower extremity; and lastly, the veins of the trunk. The veins of the head and neck may be arranged into three groups, namely, veins of the exterior of the head, veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium, veins of the neck. The veins of the exterior of the head are the— The Facial vein (facialis anterior) commences on the anterior part of the head in a venous plexus, formed by the communications of the branches of the temporal, and descends along the middle line of the forehead, under the name of frontal vein, to the root of the nose, where it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a communicating trunk, the nasal arch. There are usually two frontal veins, which communicate by a transverse inosculation; but sometimes the vein is single and bifurcates at the root of the nose, into the two angular veins. From the nasal arch the frontal is continued downwards by the side of the root of the nose, and near the angle of the eye, under the name of the angular vein; it then passes beneath the zygomatic muscles, and becomes the facial vein, and descends along the anterior border of the masseter muscle, crossing the body of the lower jaw by the side of the facial artery, to the submaxillary gland, and from thence to the internal jugular vein, in which it terminates. The branches which the facial vein receives in its course are, the supra-orhital, which joins the frontal vein; the dorsal veins of the VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK, Facial, Internal maxillary, Temporal, Temporo-maxillary, Posterior auricular, Occipital.