334 INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. branch given off by the artery as it enters the chest, descends with the phrenic nerve between the pleura and pericardium to the diaphragm, to which it is distributed, inosculating with the musculo- phrenic and abdominal phrenic arteries. The mediastinal and pericardiac branches are small vessels dis- tributed to the anterior mediastinum, pericardium, and thymus gland (thymicce). Some sternal branches are sent to supply the sternum and triangularis sterni muscle. The Anterior intercostals (intercostales anteriores) supply the in- tercostal muscles of the front of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostals; to each space there are two arteries which run along the borders of the rib. Besides supplying the intercostal mus- cles, they send branches to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. The Perforating arteries (mammary) pass forward to the front of the chest through the first six intercostal spaces; they then turn outwards, and after giving some branches to the front of the sternum, are distributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. Those intended for the mammary gland are of larger size than the rest. The Musculo-phrenic artery, proceeding from the internal mam- mary at the interspace between the sixth and seventh ribs, passes downwards and outwards over the cartilages of the false ribs to the last intercostal space. It pierces the diaphragm at the attachment of that muscle to the eighth rib, and sends branches to the muscular structure, and others to the intercostal spaces of the false ribs. "The mammary arteries," says Dr. Harrison, " are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the parietes of this cavity their branches connect the axillary and subclavian arteries; on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta; and in the parietes of the abdomen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance between those vessels which it serves to connect; namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities." The Thyroid axis is a short trunk which arises from the front of the subclavian close to the inner border of the anterior scalenus, and divides almost immediately into three branches, inferior thyroid, suprascapular and transversa colli. The Inferior thyroid artery (thyroidea inferior) ascends ob- liquely in a serpentine course behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and in front of the longus colli, to the inferior and posterior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It is in rela- tion with the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which lies in front of it; and sends branches to the trachea, larynx, and oesophagus. Near its origin it gives off the following branch. The Cervicalis ascendens, a branch of the inferior thyroid, ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of