337 AXILLAKY ARTERY= which distinguished that eminent surgeon in all cases of emergency, he continued his dissection more deeply, towards the vertebral column, and succeeded in securing the artery. It was ascertained after death, that the arteria innominata was extremely short, and that the sub- clavian was given off within the chest from the posterior aspect of its trunk, and pursued a deep course to the upper margin of the first rib. In a preparation which was shewn to me in Heidelberg, some years since, by Professor Tiedemann, the right subclavian artery arose from the thoracic aorta, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra, and ascended from that point to the border of the first rib. Yarieties in the branches of the subclavian are not unfrequent; the most interesting is the origin of the left vertebral from the arch of the aorta. AXILLARY ARTERY. The Axillary artery (axillaris) passes outwards and downwards with a gentle curve through the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, where it becomes the brachial. Relations.—After emerging from beneath the margin of the costo- coracoid membrane, it is in relation with the axillary vein, which lies at first to the inner side, and then in front of the artery. Near the middle of the axilla it is embraced by the two heads of the median nerve, and covered in by the pectoral muscles. On the imier or thoracic side it is in relation, first, with the first intercostal muscle; it next rests upon the first serration of the serratus magnus; and is then separated from the chest by the brachial plexus of nerves. By its outer or hurifieral side it is at first separated from the brachial plexus by a triangular interval of cellular tissue; it next rests against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle; and thirdly, upon the coraco- brachialis muscle. The relations of the axillary artery may be thus arranged:— In Front. • Inner or Thoracic Side. Outer or Ilumeral Side. Pectoralis major. First intercostal muscle. Plexus of nerves, Pectoralis minor, First serration of ser- Tendon of sub- ' Pectoralis major. ratus magnus, scapularis. Plexus of nerves. Coraco-brachialis. Branches.—The branches of the Axillary artery are seven in number;— Superior thoracic, Subscapular, Thoracica acromialis, Circumflex anterior. Long thoracic, Circumflex posterioi. Thoracica alaris, The superior thoracic and thoracica acromialis are found in the triangular space above the pectoralis minor. The inferior thoracic and thoracica alaris, below the pectoralis minor. And the three remaining branches below the lower border of the subscapidaris.