LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 125 When tlie intervertebral substance is bisected either horizontally or vertically, it is seen to be composed of a series of layers of dense fibrous tissue, separated by interstices filled with the softer kind. The central part of each intervertebral disc is wholly made up of this softer fibrous cartilage, which has the appearance of a pulp, and is so elastic as to rise above the level of the section as soon as its division is completed. When examined from the front, the layers are found to consist of fibres passing obliquely between the two ver- tebrae, in one layer passing from left to right, in the next from right to left, alternating in each successive layer. Arches.—The ligamenta subflava are two thin planes of yellow fibrous tissue, situated between the arches of each pair of vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. From the imbricated position of the laminae they are attached to the posterior surface of the vertebra below, and the an- terior surface of the arch of the vertebra above, being sepa- rated from each other at the middle line by a slight inter- space. They counteract, by their elasticity, the efforts of the flexor miiscles of the trunk; and by preserving the upright position' of the spine, limit the expenditure of muscular force. They are longest in the cervical and thickest in the lumbar region. The ligamenta subflava are in relation by both surfaces with the meningo-rachidian veins, and internally they are separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by those veins and some loose cellular and adipose tissue. Articular processes.—The ligaments of the articular processes of the vertebrae (ligamenta processuum obliquorum) are thin layers of ligamentous fibres which surround and enclose tie synovial mem- branes; the latter being looser in the cervical than in the other regions of the spine. Spinous processes. — The interspinms ligaments (membrana interspinalis), thin and membranous, are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are thickest in the latter; and are ia relation with the multifidus spinae muscle at each side. * An internal view of tlie aretes of three vertebrae. To obtain this view the laminse have been divided through their pedicles. 1. One of the liga- menta subflava. 2. The capsular ligament of one side.