RIBS—TRUE AND FALSE. 76 placed one above tlie other. At about the same time the centres for the first and second pieces of the body are apparent; the centres for the third piece of the body appear a few months later, and those for the fourth piece soon after birth. The osseous centre for the ensi- form cartilage is so variable in its advent, that it may exist at any period between the third and eighteenth year. The double centres for the body of the sternum are disposed side by side in pairs, and it is the irregular union of these pairs in the last three pieces of the body that gives rise to the large aperture occasionally seen in the sternum towards its lower part. Union of the pieces of the sternum commences from below and proceeds upwards; the fourth and the third unite at about puberty, the third and the second between twenty and twenty-five, the second and the first between twenty-five and thirty. The ensiform appendix becomes joined to the body of the sternum at forty or fifty-years; and the manubrium to the body only in very old age. Two small pisiform pieces have been described by Beclard and Breschet, as being situated upon and somewhat be- hind each extremity of the incisura semilunaris of the upper border of the manubrium. These pre-sternal or supra-sternal pieces, which are by no means constant, appear at about the thirty-fifth year. Beclard considers them to be the analogue of the fourchette of birds, and Breschet as the sternal ends of a pair of cervical ribs. Articulations.—With sixteen bones; viz, with the clavicles and the seven true ribs, at each side; the latter articulating by means of th.e costal cartilages. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine pairs and one single muscle, viz. to the pectoralis major, sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, triangularis sterni, aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, internus, and transversalis, rectus, and diaphragm. ' EiBS.'—The ribs are twelve in number at each side: the first seven are connected with the sternum, and are thence named sternal or true ribs; the remaining five are the asternal or false ribs; and the last two, shorter than the rest, and free at their extremities, are the floating ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the eighth, whence they again diminish to the twelfth; in breadth thfey diminish gradually from the first to the last, and, with the excep- tion of the last two, are broader at the anterior than at the poste- rior end. The first rib is horizontal in direction; all the rest are obKque, so that the anterior extremity falls considerably below the posterior. Each rib presents an external and internal surface, a superior and inferior border, and two extremities; it is curved to correspond with the arch of the thorax, and twisted, so that, when laid on its side, one end is tilted up, while the other rests upon the surface. The external surface is convex, and marked by the attachment of muscles; the internal is flat, and corresponds with the pleura; the superior border is rounded; and the inferior sharp and grooved