455 CRANIAL NERVES. fissure and tlie posterior lateral sulcus, the grey line of origin of tlie posterior roots of tlie spinal nerves. The posterior columns are the columns of sensation. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It will then appear to be composed of two hollow cylinders of white matter, placed side by side, and connected by a narrow lohite commissure. Each cylinder is filled with grey substance, which is connected by a commissure of the same matter {grey commissure). The form of the grey substance, as observed in the section, is that of two irregularly curved or cre- scentic lines joined by a transverse band. The extremities of the curved lines correspond with the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior extremities, larger than the posterior, do not quite reach the surface; but the posterior ap- pear upon the surface, and form a narrow grey line, the sulcus late- ralis posterior. The white substance of the spinal cord is composed of parallel fibres, which are collected into longitudinal laminse and extend throughout the entire length of the cord. These laminse are various .in breadth, and are arranged in a radiated manner; one border being thick and corresponding with the surface of the cord, while the other is thin and lies in contact with the grey substance of the interior. According to Rolando the white substance constitutes a simple nervous membrane, folded into longitudinal plaits, which have the radiated disposition above described. The anterior com- missure, according to his description, is merely the continuation of this nervous membrane from one lateral cord across the middle line to the other. Moreover, Rolando considers that a thin lamina of pia mater is received between each of the folds from the exterior, while a layer of grey substance is prolonged between them from within. Cruveilhier is of opinion that each lamella is completely independent of its neighbours, and he believes this statement to be confirmed by pathology, ,which shows that a single lamella may be injured or atrophied, and at the same time be surrounded by others perfectly sound. CRANIAL NERVES. There are nine pairs of cranial nerves; which, taken in their order from before backwards, are as follow: 1st. Olfactory. 2nd. Optic. 3rd. Motores oculorum. 4th. Pathetic! (trochleares), 5th. Trifacial (trigemini). 6th. Abducentes.