MUSCLES OP THE PACE. 174 Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the pyramidalis nasi, occipito-frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum; by its cZeej? surface^: with the supraorbital vessels and nerve. The Tensor Tarsi (Horner's* muscle) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is best dissected by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo palpebrarum oculi; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semi- lunaris, and some loose cellular tissue under which the muscle is concealed. It arises from the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, which aj-e continuous with the margin of the ciliaris along the edges of the lids;+ some few of its fibres being attached to the lachrymal canals as far as the puncta. According to some anatomists the tensor tarsi is a process of the orbicularis consisting of two small fasciculi which enclose the lachrymal ducts, and then spread out upon the aponeurosis of the lachrymal sac to be inserted into the crest and cffbital surface of the lachrymal bone. Actiom.—The palpebral portion of the orbicularis acts involuntarily in closing the lids, and from the greater curve of the upper lid, upon that principally. The entire muscle acts as a sphincter, drawing at the same time, by means of its osseous attachment, the integument and lids inwards towards the nose. The corrugatores superciliorum draw the eyebrows downwards and inwards, and produce the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle, is an auxiliary to the orbicularis, and draws the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best posi- tion for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in rela- tion with the surface of the eye. Dr. Horner is acqiiainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of drawing the lids inwards by these muscles so as to bury the puncta in the angle of the eye. 3. Ocular group.—Levator palpebrse. Rectus superior, Rectus inferior, Rectus internus. Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior. Dissection.-—^0 open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been removed) the frontal bone must be sawn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge; and, externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the orbit may then be comminuted with the hammer ; a process easily accomplished, on account of the thinness of the orbital * W. E. Horner, M.D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Penn- sylvania. The notice of this muscle is contained in a work published in Phila- deljihia in 1827, entitled " Lessons in Practical Anatomy." t Mr. Haynes Walton, loc. eit.