DORSALIS PEDIS ARTEKY. 374 Fig. 147. -12 the anterior peroneal artery and dorsalis pedis; the internal, be- neath the tendons of the exten- sor proprius poUicis and tibialis anticus, inosculates with branches of the posterior tibial and inter- nal plantar artery. They supply branches to the ankle-joint. The Dorsalis pedis artery is continued forward along the tibial side of the dorsum of the foot, from the ankle to the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, where it gives off a branch, the dorsalis hallucis, and then dips between the two heads of the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle into the sole of the foot and becomes continuous with the deep plantar arch. Relations.—The dorsahs pedis is situated along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius poUicis ; on its fibular side is the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and near its ter- mination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digi- torum. It is accompanied by venae comites, and has the continuation of the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. * Ajiterior aspect of the leg and foot, showing the anterior tibial and dor- salis pedis artery; the tibialis anticus has been removed. 1. Tendon of in- sertion of the quadriceps extensor mus- cle. 2. Insertion of the ligamentum patellss into the lower border of the patella. 3. Tibia. 4. Extensor pro- prius poUicis muscle. 5. Extensor longus digitorum. 6. The peronei. 7. Inner belly of the gastrocnemius and soleus. 8. Annular ligament. 9, Anterior tibial artery. 10. Its recurrent branch inosculating with (2) inferior articular, and (1) superior articular arteries, branches of the popU- teal. 11. Internal malleolar artery. 17. External malleolar inosculating with the anterior peroneal artery 12. 13. Dorsahs pedis artery. 14. Tarsea and raetatarsea; the tarsea is nearest the anlde, the metatarsea is seen giving olf the interosseae. 15. Dorsalis haUucis artery. 16. Continuation of the dorsahs pedis into the sole of the foot.