19 SACRUM. and transmit the anterior sacral nerves. The projection of the superior piece is the sacro-vertebral angle or promontory. The posterior surface is narrower than the anterior and convex. Upon the middle line is a rough crest formed by the rudiments of four spinous processes, the fifth remaining undeveloped and exposing the lower termination of the sacral canal. Immediately external to and parallel with the median crest, is a range of five small tubercles which represent the articular processes of the true vertebrae; beyond these is a shallow groove in which the four posterior sacral foramina open, and farther outwards, a range of -five tubercles corre- sponding with the poste- rior transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The lowest pair of the articular tubercles bound on each side the termination of the sacral canal, and send each a process downwards to articulate with the coc- cyx. The two descending processes are the sacral cornua. The posterior sa- cral foramina are smaller than the anterior, and transmit the posterior sa- cral nerves. Of the pos- terior transverse tubercles the first corresponds with the angle of the superior border of the bone; the second is small, and enters into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation; the tliird is large, and gives attachment to the oblique sacro-iliac ligament; the fowrth and fifth are smaller, and serve for the attachment of the sacro- ischiatic ligaments. The lateral harder of the sacrum presents su- periorly a broad and ear-shaped (auricular) surface to articulate sacro-ischiatic ligaments are attached. 6. The vertebral articular surface. 7. The broad triangular surface which supports the psoas muscle and lumbo- sacral nerve. 8. The articular process of the right side. 9. The inferior extremity, or apex of the sacrum. 10. One of the sacral cornua. 11. The notch which is converted into a foramen by the coccyx. * A posterior view of the sacrum. 1,1. The four rudimentary spinous pro- cesses. 2, 2. The sacral canal. 3, 3. Eudimentary articular processes. The lowest of these processes, with the corresponding process of the opposite side, 4, are the sacral cornua. 5,5. The four posterior sacral foramina. 6, 6. Pos- terior transverse tubercles. 7. The auricular surface. 8. Sharp edge for the attachment of the sacro-ischiatic ligaments. 9. Surface for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra. 10, 10. Articulating facets of the articular processes. 11. Apex of the sacrum by which it articulates with the coccyx. 12. Kough surface for the attachment of the jiosterior sacro-iliac ligaments. c 2