FLEXOE BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI. 259 tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and trapezo-metacarpal articu- lation. By its external surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner surface with the tendons of the long flexor muscles and first lumbricalis. The Adductor pollicis is a triangular muscle; it arises by a broad origin from the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; and the fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, conjointly with the inner head of the flexor brevis. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, tendons of the deep flexor of the fingers, lumbricales, and deep palmar arch. By its posterior surface with the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger, the interossei of the second interosseous space, and the abductor indicis. Its inferior border is subcutaneous. Ulnar or Hypothenar Region. Palmaris brevis, Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Adductor ossis metacarpi. Dissection.—Turn aside the ulnar flap of integument from the palm of the hand; in doing this, a small subcutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis, will be exposed. After examining this muscle, re- move it with the deep fascia, in order to bring into view the muscles of the little finger. The Palmaris brevis is a thin plane of muscular fibres about an inch in width, which arises from the annular ligament and palmar fascia, and passes transversely inwards to be inserted into the in- tegument of the inner border of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fat and integument of the ball of the little finger. By its deep surface with the ulnar portion of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar artery, veins and nerve, and from the muscles of the inner border of the hand. The Abductor minimi digiti is a small tapering muscle which arises from the pisiform bone, where it is continuous with the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, and the expansion of the extensor tendon. Relations.—superficial surface with the internal portion of the deep fascia and palmaris brevis; by its deep surfa.cc with the adductor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner border with the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti is a small muscle arising from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and inserted into the base of the first phalanx. It is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of s 2