CARPUS. 87 * which extends from the tuberosity to the styloid process at the lower extremity of the bone. Upon the inner margin of the bone is a sharp and prominent crest, which gives attachment to the iater- osseous membrane. The lower extremity of the radius is broad and triangular, and provided with two articular surfaces; one at the side of the bone, which is concave to receive the rounded head of the ulna; the other at the extremity, and marked by a slight ridge into two facets, one external and triangular, corresponding with the scaphoid; the other square, with the semilunar bone. Upon the outer side of the extremity is a strong conical projection, the styloid process, which gives attachment by its base to the tendon of the supinator longus, and by its apex to the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint. The inner edge of the articular surface affords attachment to the base of the interarticular fibrocartilage of the ulna. Immediately in front of the styloid process is a groove, which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and ex- tensor primi internodii; and behind the process a broader groove, for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior and extensor secundi internodii; behind this is a prominent ridge, and a deep and narrow groove, for the tendon of the extensor indicis; and still farther back part of a broad groove, completed by the ulna, for the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after the humerus, and before that in the ulna. The inferior centre appears during the second year, and the superior about the seventh. The bone is perfected at twenty. Articulations.—With/ow bones; humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semilunar. Attachment of Muscles.'—To nine: by the tuberosity to the biceps; by the oblique ridge, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and pronator quadratus; by the anterior surface, flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus; by the pos- terior surface, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii; and by the styloid process, supinator longus. Carpus.—The bones of the carpus are eight in number; they are arranged in two rows. In the first row, commencing from the radial side, are, the os scaphoides, semilunare, cuneiforme, pisiforme; and in the second row, in the same order, os trapezium, trapezoides, os magnum, and unciforme. The SGAPHOii) bone is named from bearing some resemblance to the shape of a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite, concave on one side, and convex on the other. It is, however, more similar in form to a cashew nut flattened and concave upon one side. If carefully examined, it wiU be found to present a convex and a concave surface, a convex and a concave border, a broad end, and a narroio and pointed extremity, the tuberosity.