COLON,—RECTUM. 607 of the umbilical region under tlie name of transverse colon ; and, on the left side [flexura sinistra vel lienalis), descends, descending colon, through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called the sigmoid flexure (flexura iliaca). The ascending colon, the most dilated portion of the large intes- tine, next to the caecum, is retained in position in the abdomen either by the peritoneum passing simply in front of it or by a narrow meso-colon. It is in relation in front with the small intestine and abdominal parietes; behind with the quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney; internally with the small intestine and per- pendicular portion of the duodenum ; and by its upper extremity with the under surface of the liver and gall-bladder. The transverse colon, the longest portion of the large intestine, forms a curve across the cavity of the abdomen, the convexity of which looks forwards and sometimes downwards. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, gall-bladder, stomach, and lower extremity of the spleen; by its lower surface, with the small intestine; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and abdominal parietes; and, by its posterior sur- face, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon is smaller in calibre, and situated more deeply than the ascending colon. Its relations are precisely similar. The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon; it curves in the first place upwards and to the right, then downwards and to the left, and is retained in its place by a meso-colon. It is in rela- tion, in front, with the small intestine and abdominal parietes; and behind, with the iliac fossa. The Rectum, the termination of the large intestine, is seven or eight inches in length. It has received its name, not so much from the direction of its course, as from the straightness of its form in comparison with the colon. It descends, from opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis, in front of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side, and then returning to the middle line ; opposite the extremity of the coccyx it curves backwards to terminate at the anus at about an inch in front of the apex of that bone. The rectum, therefore, forms a double flexure in its course, the one being directed from side to side, the other from before backwards. It is smaller in calibre at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, but becomes gra- dually larger as it descends, and its lower extremity, previously to its termination at the anus, forms a dilatation of considerable but variable magnitude. With reference to its relations, the rectum is divided into three portions; the first, including half its length, extends to about the middle of the sacrum, is completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum by means of the meso-rectum. It is in re- lation, above, with the left sacro-iliac symphysis ; and, below, with the branches of the internal iliac artery, sacral plexus of nerves and