368 FEMORAL ARTERY. to make tlieir way to a gland, situated in the femoral or crural ring. Relations.—The upper third of the femoral artery is superficial, being covered only by the integument, inguinal glands, and super- ficial and deep fascia. The lower two-thirds are covered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer side the artery is in relation with the psoas and vastus internus. Behind, it rests upon the inner border of the psoas; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination; near the lower border of the adductor longus it is placed in an aponeurotic sheath or canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the side of the vastus internus. To its inner side it is in relation at its upper part with the femoral vein, and lower down with the pectineus, adductor longus, and sartorius. The immediate relations of the artery are the femoral vein, long saphenous nerve, and muscular nerve to the vastus internus. The vein at Poupart's ligament lies to the inner side of the artery; but lower down gets altogether behind it, and inclines to its outer side. The muscular nerve lies to the outer side, and somewhat upon the sheath for the lower two-thirds of its extent; and the long saphe- nous nerve is situated within the sheath, and in front of the artery for the same extent. Plan of the Relations of the Femoral x\rtery. Front. Fascia lata, Long saphenous nerve, Sartorius, Aponeurotic canal. Inner Side. Outer Side. Psoas, Vastus internus. Femoral vein, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Sartorius. Femoral artery. Behind. Psoas muscle, Femoral vein, Adductor longus. Branches.—The branches of the Femoral Artery are the Superficial circumflexa ilii, ( External circumflex, Superficial epigastric, Profunda < Internal circumflex, Superior external pudic, ( Three perforating. Inferior external pudic. Muscular, Anastomotica magna.