570 ANATOMY OF THE HEART. by both extremities, being free in the middle. 3. A few (columnse papillares) are attaclied by one extremity to tbe walls of tbe beart, and by the other give insertion to the chordae tendinese. The Semilunar valves, three in number, are situated around the commencement of the pulmonary artery, being formed by a folding of its lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are attached by their convex borders, and free by the concave, which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder ; but, if any attempt at regurgita- tion ensue, they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. The margins of the valves are thicker than the rest of their extent, and each valve presents in the centre of this margin a small fibro-cartilaginous tubercle or nodule, called corpus Arantii* which locks in with the other two during the closure of the valves, and secures the triangular space which would otherwise be left by the approximation of three semilunar folds. On either side of the nodule, the edge of the valve is folded and thin, and to this part the term lunula has been applied. When the valves are closed, the lunulse are brought in contact with each other by their surfaces. Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches, called the pulmonary sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses are situated behind the valves at the commencement of the aorta, and are larger and more capacious than those of the pulmonary artery. The Pulmonary artery commences by a scalloped border, corre- sponding with the three valves which are attached along its edge. It is connected to the ventricle by muscular fibres, and by the lining membrane of the heart. The Left or posterior auricle is somewhat smaller, but thicker, than the right; of a cuboid form, and situated more pos- teriorly. The appendix auricula; is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has a foliated appearance; it is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auriculae of both sides appear to converge. The left auricle is to be laid open by a J. shaped incision, the horizontal section being made along the border which is attached to the base of the ventrisle. It presents for examination five openings, and the muscular structure of the appendix ; the fossa ovalis, as previously observed, is not to be seen on the left side of the septum auricularum. The parts to be examined, are,— Four pulmonary veins, Auriculo-ventricular opening, Musculi pectinati. * Julius Caesar Arantius, Professor of Medicine in Bologna. He was a disciple of Vesalius, one of the founders of modern anatomy. His treatise ' De Humano Foetu" was published at Rome, in 1564.