CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 147 posterior surface of tlie radius, and the posterior surface of the semi- lunar and cuneiform bone. The internal lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament is attached by one extremity to the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to the side of the sca- phoid bone, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium. The radial artery rests on this ligament as it passes backwards to the first metacarpal space. The synovial membrane of the wrist joint lines the under surface of the radius and interarticular cartilage above, and the first row of bones of the carpus below. The relations of the wrist joint are the flexor and exten- sor tendons, by which it is sur- rounded, and the radial and ulnar artery. Actions.'—The, movements of the wrist joint are flexion, ex- tension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. In these motions the articular surfaces glide upon each other. 8. Articulations between the Carpal Bones.—These are am- phi-arthrodial joints, with the * Ligaments of the anterior aspect of the wrist and hand. 1. The lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. Anterior inferior radio-uhiar hga- ment. 3. Anterior Hgament of the wrist joint. 4. Its external lateraUiga- ment. 5. Its internal lateral Hga- ment. 6. Thepahnarhgamentsof the carpus. 7. The pisiform bone, with its hgaments. 8. The hgaments connecting the second range of car- pal bones with the metacarpal, and the metacarpal with each other. 9. The capsiilar ligament of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 10. Anterior Hgament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tion of the thumb. 11. One of the lateral Hgaments of that articulation. 12. Anterior Hgament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger; this Hgament has been removed in the other fingers. 13. Lateral Hga- ments of the same articulation; the corresponding Hgaments are seen in the other articulations. 14. Transverse Hgament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger ; the same Hgament is seen between the other fingers. 15. Anterior and one lateral Hgament of the phalangeal articulation of the thiunb. 16. Anterior and lateral Hgaments of the phalangeal articulations of the index finger; the anterior Hgaments are removed in the other fingers, but the lateral Hgaments remain.