HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 479 Spinal accessory nerve. — The spinal accessory, a nerve of motion, arises by several filaments from the side of the spinal cord as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical nerve, and ascends behind the ligamentum dentatum, and between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, to the foramen lacerum posterius. It communicates in its course with the posterior root of the first cer- vical nerve, and, entering the foramen lacerum, becomes applied against the posterior aspect of the superior ganglion of the pneumo- gastric, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater. The nerve then passes outwards and downwards, behind and sometimes in front of the internal jugular vein to the upper and under part of the sterno-mastoid, pierces that muscle obliquely and descends across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trape- zius to which it is distributed, its branches being continued down- wards to near the lower border of the muscle. The Branches of communication of the spinal accessory are one or two small branches from the superior ganglion of the pneumogastric, and a large branch which joins the pneumogastric between the two ganglia. Its Branches of distribution are muscular branches to the-sterno- mastoid and trapezius. In the substance of the sterno-mastoid it communicates with branches of the cervical plexus, and in the pos- terior triangular space with the third and fourth cervical nerves. The pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerve together (nervus vagus cum accessorio) resemble a spinal nerve, of which the former with its ganglion is the posterior and sensitive root, the latter the anterior and motor root. The deep origin of the spinal accessory may be traced into the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Ninth pair.* HYPoaLOSSAL nerve (lingual). The hypoglossal is a nerve of motion, distributed to all the muscles of the tongue, most of those attached to the os hyoides, and the sterno-thyroid. It arises from the groove between the corpus pyramidale and corpus olivare by ten or fifteen filaments, which are collected into two bun- dles, and escape from the cranium through the anterior condyloid fora- men. At its exit from the cranium, the nerve lies behind the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, then passing forward between the artery and vein it descends to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next curves forwards around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crossing the external carotid and lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, sends filaments onwards with the anterior fibres of that muscle as far as the tip of the tongue. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle it is flattened, and beneath the mylo-hyoideus communicates with the gustatory nerve. At its origin, the hypoglossal nerve sometimes communicates with * The twelfth pair according to the arrangement of Soemmering.