483 CBKVIOAL PLEXUS. into niimerous branches, some of which are distributed to the rectus major, longus colli, and scalenus posticus, while others communicate and form loops and anastomoses with the second and fourth nerve. The anterior division of the fourth cervical nerve, equal in size with the preceding, sends twigs to the rectus major, longus colli, and levator anguli scapulae, communicates by anastomosis with the third, and sends a small branch downwards to the fifth nerve. Its prin- cipal branches pass downwards and outwards across the posterior triangle of the neck, towards the clavicle and acromion. The anterior divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves will be described with the brachial plexus, of which they form a part. Ceevical plexus.—The cervical plexus is constituted by the loops of communication and the anastomoses which take place be- tween the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves. The plexus rests upon the levator anguli scapulae, posterior and middle scalenus, and splenius colli muscle, and is covered in by the sterno- mastoid and platysma. The Branches of the cervical plexus may be arranged into three groups, superficial ascending, superficial descending, and deep :— Superficial ( Superficialis colli, Ascending, < Auricularis magnus, ( Occipitalis minor, n 7. \ Acromiales, Descending, < ■ ^ ^' Claviculares. {Communicating branches, -p. J Communicans noni, y • • • Muscular, (Phrenic. The Superficialis colli is formed by communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and crosses obliquely behind the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia and divides into an ascending and a descend- ing branch. The ascending branch passes upwards to the submaxillary region, and divides into four or five filaments, some of which pierce the platysma myoides, and supply the integument as high up as the chin and lower part of the face; while others form a plexus with the inframaxillary branches of the facial nerve beneath the platysma. One or two filaments from this branch accompany the external jugular vein. The descending branch pierces the platysma and is distributed to the integument of the front of the neck as far downwards as the sternum. I i2