POSTEKIOK TIBIAL REGION. •278 Mg. 125.* ' Posterior Tibial Region. Superficial Group. Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Dissection. — Make an incision from the middle of the popliteal space down the middle of the posterior part of the leg to the heel, bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision passing between the tv/o malleoli. Turn aside the flaps of integument and remove the fasciae from the whole of this region; the gastrocne- if. JlMlB'lii, mil mius muscle will then be exposed. The GrASTROCNEMius {yaarpoKvrjfXLOv, the bellied part of the leg; gemellus surse) arises by two heads (gemellus externus et internus) from the upper part of the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. They unite to form the beautiful muscle so characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, by means of the tendo-Achillis, into the lower part of the posterior tulserosity of the OS calcis, a synovial bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper part of the tuberosity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down in order to expose the next muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia of the leg, which se- parates it from the external saphenous y w vein, and with the external saphenous nerve. By its deep surface with the lateral portions of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the popliteus, plantaris, and soleus. The internal head of the muscle rests against the pos- terior surface of the internal condyle of the femur; the external head against the outer side of the external condyle. In the latter a sesa- moid bone is sometimes found. * Superficial muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg. 1. The biceps, form- ing the outer hamstring. 2. The tendons forming the inner hamstring. 3. The popliteal space. 4. Gastrocnemius muscle. 5, 5. The soleus. 6. The tendo- AcMUis. 7. The posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. 8. The tendons of the pe- roneus longus and brevis passing behind the outer ankle. 9. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum passing into the foot behind the inner anlde.