OBTUKATOR ARTERY. 360 origin of the pyriformis muscle; posteriorly it is in relation with the internal iliac vein, and anteriorly with the iireter. Branches.—The branches of the anterior trunk are the— The Superior vesical arteries are three or four small branches, which proceed from the pervious portion of the hypogastric cord. They are distributed to the upper and middle part of the bladder. From one of these there passes off a small artery, the deferential, which accompanies the vas deferens along the spermatic cord. The Inferior vesical, somewhat larger than the preceding, passes down upon the side of the bladder to its base, and is distributed to that region, the yesiculse seminales, and prostate gland. The Middle ha^morrJioidal artery, frequently a branch of the pre- ceding, passes downwards to the rectum, to which it is distributed, inosculating with the superior and inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries. In the female it distributes branches to the vagina. The Uterine artery passes downwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and then ascends in a tortuous course along its lateral border. It gives off branches to the vagina, the lower part of the bladder, the Fallopian tube (tubaria), ovary (ovaria), and round ligament, and inosculates with the sper- matic or ovarian artery. According to Weber the ovarian branch of the uterine is the special artery of the ovary. The Vaginal artery corresponds in position with the inferior vesical, and is distiibuted to the vagina and neighbouring parts of the bladder and rectum. The Obturator artery (obturatoria; arising frequently from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac) passes forwards from the an- terior trunk, a little below the brim of the pelvis, to the upper border of the obturator foramen. Escaping from the pelvis through a tendinous arch formed by the obturator membrane, it divides into two branches, internal and external. Its branches within the pelvis are: an iliac branch, which sup- plies the bone of the iliac fossa, and inosculates with the ilio-lumbar artery ; and & pubic branch which is given off close to the obturator foramen, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, behind the pubes, and with the pubic branch of the epigastric artery. Superior vesical. Inferior vesical, Middle hsemorrhoidal. Uterine, Vaginal, Obturator, Ischiatic, Internal pudic. The branches of the posterior trunk are the— Ilio-lumbar, Lateral sacral. Gluteal.