LIGAMENTS OP THE LARYNX. 578 The Thyro-hyaidean membrane is a broad membranous layer, occupying the entire space between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the upper border of the os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number:— * Vertical section of the larynx, showing its ligaments. 1. Body of the os hyoides. 2. Its great cornu. 3. Lesser cornu. 4. Ala of the thyroid cartilage. 5. Superior cornu. 6. Inferior cornu. 7. Pomum Adami. 8, 8. Thyro-hyoidean membrane; the opening in the membrane immediately above the most posterior of the numerals is for the passage of the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 9. Thyro-hyoidean ligament; the numeral is placed immediately above the sesamoid bone or cartilage which exists in this ligament, a. Epiglottis, b. Hyo-epiglottic ligament, c. Thyro-epiglottic ligament, d. Arytenoid cartilage; its inner surface, e. Outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. J". Corniculum laryngis. g. Cuneiform cartilage, h. Superior thyro-aiytenoid ligament, i. Inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, or chorda vocalis; the eUiptical space between the two thyro- arytenoid ligaments is that of the ventricle of the larynx, k. Cricoid cartilage. I. Lateral portion of the crico-thyroidean membrane, m. Central portion of the same membrane, n. Upper ring of the trachea, which is received within the ring of the cricoid cartilage, o. Section of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, p, p- Levator giandulse thyroideae. Two Capsular ligaments, with Mg. 196.* their synovial membranes, which form the articulation between the JI r inferior cornua of the thyroid and mmii0>f^is\s the sides of the cricoid; and the WT' ''^'''^!) crico-thyroidean membrane. The s^V' ''Aw 3 crico-thyroidean membrane is a i' fan-shaped layer of yellow elastic ' tissue, thick in front (middle crico- "~*\ /^MJ ! thyroidean ligament) and thinner ^ If^te?/ at each side (lateral crico-thyroi- / dean ligament). It is attached by ^P^'Mf^i' ^ apex to the lower border and Wt/Kj]j> receding angle of the thyroid car- W^mF il tilage, and by its expanded margin to the upper border of the cricoid and base of the arytenoid carti- lages. Superiorly it is continuous with the inferior margin of the chordae vocales. The front of the crico-thyroidean membrane is crossed by a small artery, the in- ferior laryngeal, and is the spot selected for the operation of laryn- gotomy. Laterally it is covered in by the crico-thyroidei and crico- arytenoidei laterales muscles.