ANATOMY OP THE LAEYNX. 576 nary veins and aorta, than on the right side, where it is continued into the vense cavse and pulmonary artery. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries supplying the heart are the left and right coronary. The Veins accompany the arteries, and empty themselves by the common coronary vein into the right auricle. The lymphatics terminate in the glands about the root of the heart. The nerves of the heart are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed by communicating filaments from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND VOICE. The organs of respiration are the two lungs, with their air-tube, the trachea, to the upper part of which is adapted an apparatus of cartilages, constituting the organ of voice, or larynx. THE LARYNX. The Larynx is situated at the fore-part of the neck, between the trachea and the base of the tongue. It is a short tube, having an hour-glass form, and is composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. The Cartilages are the— Thyroid, Two cornicula laryngis, Cricoid, Two cuneiform, Two arytenoid, Epiglottis. The Thyroid {Bvpebg—eWog, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx: it consists of two lateral portions, or alee, which meet at an angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name of pomum Aclami. In the male, after puberty, the angle of union of the two alse is acute : in the female, and before puberty in the male, it is obtuse. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. Upon the side of the ala is an oblique line, or ridge, directed downwards and forwards, and bounded at each extremity by a tubercle. Into this line the sterno-thyroid muscle is inserted; and from it the thyro-hyoid and inferior con- strictor take their origin. In the receding angle, formed by the meeting of the two alse, upon the inner side of the cartilage, and near its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, chordse vocales, thyro-arytenoid and thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The Cricoid {Kp'iKog—eISoq, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front, and broad behind where it is surmounted by two rounded surfaces, which articulate with the arytenoid cartilages.