438 THIRD VENTRICLE. two thalami optici. It is bounded above by the tinder surface of tbe velum interpositum, from wbich are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Its floor is formed by the grey sub- stance of the anterior termi- nation of the corpus callosum, called lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum, corpora albi- cantia, and locus perforatus. Laterally, it is bounded by the thalami optici; anteriorly by the anterior commissure and crura of the fornix ; and posteriorly by the posterior commissure and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventricu- lum. The third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, anterior, middle, and poste- rior; and between these are two spaces, called foramen commune anterius and fora- men commune posterius. The Anterior commissure is a small rounded white cord, which enters the corpus striatum at either side, and spreads out in the substance * The third and fourth ventricles. 1. Fifth ventricle situated between the layers of the septum lucidum. 2,2. Corpora striata. 3,3. Thalami optici; the numbers are placed upon the part termed " coUieulus." 4, 4. The pul- vinar. 5, 5. Tenia semicircularis. 6, 6. Crura of the fornix, cut across. 7. Middle commissure of the third ventricle. 8. Posterior commissure of the third ventricle; the space between the thalami optici (3, 3), in which the commissures (7, 8) are placed, is the third ventricle. 9. Pineal gland, 10, 10. Peduncles of the pineal gland, prolonged forwards as streaks (strise meduUares colliculi nervorum opticorum) to the crura of the fornix, 6, 6. 11, 11. Nates. 12, 12. Testes. 11, 11, and 12, 12, are the corpora quadri- gemina, 13. The brachium anterius of one side. 14. The brachium pos- terius. 15. Corpus geniculatum internum. 16. Corpus geniculatum externum. 17, 17. The laqueus at each side. 18, 18. Processus e cerebeUo ad testes. 19, 19. Crura cerebri. 20. Valve of Vieussens. 21. Section of the pro- cessus e cerebeUo ad testem, or superior peduncle of the cerebellum. 22. Sec- tion of the corpus restiforme, or middle peduncle. 23. Section of the crus cerebeUi or inferior peduncle. 24. Fourth ventricle; the two bodies on which the number is placed are the fasciculi teretes. 25. Alae cinereae of the floor of the fourth ventricle; this part of the ventricle is termed the calamus scrip- torius. 26. Fasciculi graciles at their upper part, where they constitute the enlargements known as the processus clavati. They are separated by the posterior median fissure, and the dark aperture at the top of this fissure is the ventricle of Arantius. 27, 27. Strise meduUares, the origin of the portio moUis nerve. 28, 28. Fasciculi laterales of the spinal cord. 29, 29. Fasci- culi cuneati.