20 SACRUM. with the ilium; and inferiorly a sharp edge, to which the greater and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligaments are attached. On the mperior border, in the middle line, is an oval articular surface, which cor- responds with the under part of the body of the last lumbar vertebra; and on each side a broad triangular surface, which supports the lumbo-sacral nerve and psoas magnus muscle. Immediately behind the vertebral articular surface is the triangular entrance of the sacral canal; and on each side of this opening an articular process, which looks backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae. In front of each articular process is an intervertebral notch. The inferior extremity of the bone presents a small oval surface which articulates with the coccyx; and on each side a notch, which, with a corresponding notch in the upper border of the coccyx, forms the foramen for the transmission of the fifth sacral nei ve. The sacrum presents some variety in respect of curvature, and of the number of pieces which enter into its structure. The curve is often very slight, and is situated only near the lower part of the bone; while in other subjects it is considerable, and occurs at the middle of the sacrum. The sexual differences in the sacrum relate to its greater breadth, and the greater angle which it forms with the rest of the vertebral column in the female, rather than to any pecu- liarity in shape. It is sometimes composed of six pieces, more rarely of four, and, occasionally, the first and second pieces remain perma- nently separate. Development.—By twenty-one points of ossification; five for each of the first three pieces, viz. one for the body, one for each lateral portion, and one for each lamina; and three for each of the last two, namely, one for the body and one for each lateral portion. In the progress of growth, and after puberty, fourteen epiphysal centres are added, namely, two for the surfaces of each body, one for each auri- cular surface, and one for the thin edge of each lateral border. Ossification begins in the bodies of the sacral pieces somewhat later than in those of the true vertebrae; the first three appearing during the eighth and ninth week, and the last two at about the middle of intra-uterine existence. Ossification of the lamellae takes place dur- ing the interval between the sixth and ninth month. The epiphyses for the upper and under surface of the bodies are developed during the interval between the fifteenth and eighteenth year; and for the auricular and marginal piece, after twenty. The two lower verte- bral pieces, although the last to appear, are the first to be com- pleted (between the fourth' and fifth year), and to unite by their iDodies. The union of the bodies takes place from below upwards, and finishes, between the twenty-fifth and the thirtieth year, with the first two pieces. Articulation.—-With/owr bones; the last lumbar vertebra, ossa innominata, and coccyx. Attachment of Muscles.—To seve^i pairs; in front the pyriformis.