521 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. cretion is squeezed out from the follicles, and taking the cylindrical form of their excretory ducts, has the appearance of small white maggots (grubs ; comedones) with black heads. 2. The Muscles are brought into view by reflecting the integu- ment ; they are the pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and depressor alse nasi. They have been already described with the muscles of the face. 3. The Bones of the nose are, the nasal, and nasal processes of the superior maxillary. 4. The Fibro-cartilages give form and stability to the nose, pro- viding, at the same time, by their elasticity, against injuries. They are five in number, namely, the— Fibro-cartilage of the septum. Two lateral fibro-cartilages, Two alar fibro-cartilages. The Fibro-cartilage of the septum, somewhat triangular in form, divides the nose into its two nostrils. It is connected above with the nasal bones and lateral fibro-cartilages; behind, with the ethmoidal septum and vomer; and below, with the palate processes of the su- perior maxillary bones. The alar fibro-cartilages and columna move freely upon the fibro-cartilage of the septum, being but loosely con- nected with it by perichondrium. The Lateral fihro-cartilages are also triangular; they are connected, Fig. 176.* in front, with the fibro-cartilage of the septum ; above, with the nasal bones; behind, with the nasal pro- cesses of the superior maxillary bones; and belovj, with the aJar fibro-cartilages. Alar fibro-cartilages.—Each of these cartilages is curved so as to correspond with the walls of the nostril, to which it forms a kind of rim. The inner portion is loosely connected with the same part of the opposite cartilage, to form the columna. It is expanded and thickened at the point of the nose, to constitute the lobe; and on the side makes a curve corresponding with that of the ala. This curve * The fibro-cartilages of tlie nose. 1. One of the nasal bones. 2. Cartil- lage of the septum. 3. Lateral cartilage. 4. Alar cartilage. 5. Central portions of the alar cartilages which constitute the columna. 6. Cartilagines minores or sesamoid cartilages. 7. The nostril.