32 TEMPORAL BONE. than its upper wall, and directed obliquely inwards and forwards. The Petrous portion of the temporal hone is named from its ex- treme hardness and density. It is a three-sided pyramid, projecting horizontally forwards into the base of the skull, the base being applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, and the apex being received into the triangular interval between the spinous process of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occi- pital bone. For convenience of description it is divisible into three surfaces—anterior, posterior, and basilar; and three borders—supe- rior, anterior, and posterior. The anterior swrface, forming the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the interior of the base of the skull, Fig. 21.t presents for examina- tion from base to apex, ^T'vJ'''!r^~\. for the passage of the * A section of the temporal bone, right side, showing the curved dii'ectiou of the meatus auditorius externus. 1. The edge of the processus auditorius. 2. The groove into which the membraua tympaui is inserted. The obhquit^' of the line from 2 to 3 indicates the obUque tei-miuation of the meatus, and the consequent obhque direction of the membrana tympani. 4,4. The cavity of the tympanum. 5. The opening of the Eustachian tube. 6. Part of the aqua'ductus FaUopii. 7. Part of the carotid canal. t The left temporal bone, seen from within. 1. The squamous por- Fig. 20.* The canal is narrower. at the middle than at each extremity, is broadest in its horizontal diameter, and terminates upon the outer wall of the tympanum by an abrupt oval border. Within the margin of this border is a groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. first,an eminence caused by the projection of the perpendicular semicir- cular canal; next, a groove leading to an irregular oblique open- ing, the hiatus Fal- lopii, for the trans- mission of the iDetrosal branch of the Vidian n^rve; thirdly, another and smaller oblique foramen, immediately beneath the preceding,