450 DIVERaiNG FIBRES. corpora striata are the ganglia of the cerebram ; or, in other words, the formative ganglia of the hemispheres. The fibres of the corpora pyramidalia are not all of them destined to the course above described; several fasciculi curve outwards to reach the corpora restiformia, some passing in front and'some behind the corpus olivare on each side. These are the arciform fibres; they are distinguished by Mr. Solly into the superficial and deep cerebellar fibres. In the pons Varolii the continued or cerebrai fibres (Solly) of the corpus pyramidale are placed between the superficial and deep layer of transverse fibres, and escaping from the pons, constitute the inferior and inner segment of the crus cerebri. From the crus cerebri they pass for the most part beneath the thalami optici into the corpora striata. The fibres which enclose the corpus olivare, under the name of fasciculi siliquse, are separated by that body into two bands; the innermost of the two bands, funiculus siliquce internus, accompanies the fibres of the corpus pyramidale into the crus cerebri. The funiculus siliquce externus unites with a fasciculus proceeding from the nucleus olivse, and the combined column ascending behind the crus cerebelli divides into a superior and an inferior band. The in- ferior band proceeds with a fasciculus presently to be described, the fasciculus innominatus, into the upper segment of the crus cerebri. The superior band (laqueus) ascends by the side of the processus e cerebello ad testes, and, crossing the latter obliquely, enters the corpora quadrigemina, in which many of its fibres are distributed, while the rest are continued onwards into the thalamus opticus. The corpora restiformia derive their fibres from the anterior as well as from the posterior columns of the medulla oblongata; they diverge as they approach the cerebellum, and leaving between them the cavity of the fourth ventricle, enter the substance of the cerebellum, under the form of two rounded cords. These cords envelop the corpora rhomboidea, or ganglia of increase, and then expand on all sides so as to constitute the cerebellum. Besides the fibres here described, there are, in the interior of the medulla oblongata, behind the corpora olivaria, and more or less apparent between these bodies and the corpora restiformia, two large bundles of fibres, the fasciculi innominati. These fasciculi ascend behind the deep transverse fibres of the pons Varolii, and become apparent in the floor of the fourth ventricle, under the name of fasciculi teretes. From this point they are prolonged upwards beneath the corpora quadrigemina into the crura cerebri, of which they form the upper and outer segment, and are thence continued through the thalami optici and corpora striata into the hemispheres. The locus niger of the crus cerebri is a septum of grey matter interposed between these fasciculi and those of the corpora pyramidalia. Converging fibres.—In addition to the diverging fibres which are thus shown to constitute both the cerebrum and cerebellum, by their increase and development, another set of fibres are found to