97 ACETABULUM. OBTUKATOK FORAMEN. ,a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more , than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a deep rim or lip, which is broad and strong above, where most resistance is required, and marked in front by a deep notch, which is arched over in the fresh subject by a strong liga- ment, and transmits the nutrient vessels of the joint. At the bottom of the cup, and communicating with the notch, is a deep circular pit (fundus acetabuli), which lodges a mass of fat, and gives attachment to the broad extremity of the ligamentum teres. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large oval interval between the ischium and pubes, bounded by a narrow rough margin, to which a ligamentous membrane is attached. The upper part of the foramen is increased in depth by the groove in the under surface of the os pubis, which lodges the obturator vessels and nerve. Develoj^r/ient.—Bj eight centres : three principal, one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and five secondary, one, the Y shaped piece for the interval between the primitive pieces in the bottom of the acetabulum, one for the crest of the ilium, one (not constant) for the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, one for the tuberosity of the ischium, and one (not constant) for the angle of the os pubis. Ossification commences in the primi- tive pieces, immediately after that in the vertebrae, firstly in the ilium, then in the ischium, and lastly in the pubes; the first ossific deposits being situated near the future acetabulum. At birth, the acetabulum,' the crest of the ilium, and the ramus of the pubes and ischium, are cartilaginous. The secondary centres appear at puberty, and the entire bone is not completed until the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—^With three bones; sacrum, opposite innomi- natum, and femur. Attachment of Muscles and Ligaments.—To thirty-three muscles : to the ilium thirteen; by the outer lip of the crest, obliquus ex- ternus for two-thirds its length, latissimus dorsi one-third, and tensor vaginse femoris its anterior fourth; by the middle of the crest, internal oblique three-fourths its length, erector spinse the remaining fourth; by the internal lip, transversalis three-fourths, and quad- ratus lumborum the posterior part of its middle third. By the ex- ternal surface, gluteus medius, minimus, and maximus, and one head of the rectus; by the internal surface, iliacus; by the anterior border, sartorius, and the other head of the rectus. To the ischium fomteen; by its external surface, adductor magnus and obturator externus; by the internal surface, obturator internus and levator ani; by the spine, gemellus superior, levator ani, coccygeus, and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament; by the tuberosity, biceps, semi-ten- dinosus, semi-membranosus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, erector penis, and great sacro-ischiatic ligament; by the ramus, gracilis, and transversus perinei. To the os pubis sixteen: by its upper border, obliquus externus, obliquus internus, transversalis, H