667 CHAPTER XI. ANATOMY OF THE FCETUS. The medium weight of a child of the full period, at birth, is seven pounds, and its length seventeen inches; the extremes of weight are four pounds and three quarters, and ten pounds ; and the extremes of measurement fifteen and twenty inches. The head is of large size, and lengthened from before backwards ; the face small. The upper extremities are greatly developed, and the thorax expanded and full. The upper part of the abdomen is large, from the great size of the liver; the lovfer part is small and conical. And the lower extremities are very small in proportion to the rest of the body. The external genital organs are very large, and fully deve- loped, and the attachment of the umbilicus is one inch farther from the vertex of the head than from the soles of the feet; and one inch farther from the ensiform cartilage than from the symphysis pubis. Osseous system.—The development of the osseous system has been treated of in the first chapter. The ligamentous system pre- sents no peculiarity deserving of remark. Muscular system.—The muscles of the foetus at birth are large and fully formed. They are of a lighter colour than those of the adult, and of softer texture. The transverse striae on the fibres of animal life are not distinguishable until the sixth month of foetal life. Vascular system.—The circulating system presents several pe- culiarities : Istly, In the heart; there is a communication between the two auricles by means of the foramen ovale. 2ndly, In the arterial system ; there is a communication between the pulmonary artery and arch of the aorta, by means of a large trunk, the ductus arteriosus. 3rdly, Also in the arterial system : the internal iliac arteries, under the name of hypogastric and umbilical, are continued from the foetus to the placenta, to which they return the blood which has circulated in the system of the foetus. 4thly, In the venous system ; there is a communication between the umbilical vein and the inferior vena cava, called the ductus venosus. f(etal circulation. The pure blood is brought from the placenta by the umbilical vein. The umbilical vein passes through the umbilicus, and enters the liver, where it divides into several branches, which may be ar- ranged under three heads:—Istly, Two or three, which are distri-