POSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES. 485 are given to the anterior recti. From the second cervical nerve a branch is given to the sterno-mastoid. From the third and fourth nerves branches are given off to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, and scalenus posticus. The branch to the trapezius communicates with the spinal accessory nerve. The Phrenic nerve (internal respiratory of Bell) is formed by the union of filaments from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerve, and one from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting on the scalenus anticus muscle, crosses the first portion of the subclavian artery, and enters the chest between it and the sub- clavian vein. Within the chest it passes downwards through the middle mediastinum, lying between the pleura and pericardium, and in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm; near the diaphragm it divides into branches which pierce that muscle, and are distributed on its under surface. Some of its filaments reach the abdomen through the openings for the cesophagus and vena cava, and communicate with the phrenic and solar plexus, and on the right side with the hepatic plexus. The left phrenic nerve is longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and crosses the arch of the aorta. The right nerve is situated more deeply in the upper part of the chest than the left, and lies in contact with the right vena innominata and superior vena cava. B^th nerves cross in front of the origin of the internal mammary artery at their entrance into the chest. Posterior cervical nerves.—The posterior divisions of the cervical nerves issue from between the transverse processes, and divide into an internal and external branch. The internal branch is directed inwards towards the middle of the spine, and becoming cutaneous near the spinous processes of the vertebrae, is then reflected outwards to supply the integument. The external branch is smaller than the internal, and is distributed to the muscles of the outer portion of the vertebral groove. The posterior division of the first cervical nerve (sub-occipital,) larger than the anterior, escapes from the vertebral canal through the opening for the vertebral artery, lying posteriorly to that vessel, and emerges into the triangular space formed by the rectvis posticus major, obliquus superior, and obliquus inferior. It is distributed to the recti, obliqui and complexus, and sends a branch downwards to communi- cate with the second cervical nerve; it has no external branch. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve is three or four times larger than its anterior division, and exceeds in size the other posterior cervical nerves. Its internal branch is the occipi- talis major nerve. The posterior division of the third cervical nerve is smaller than the second, but larger than the fourth ; its internal branch gives off a cutaneous branch to the back of the cranium.