309 STRUCTURE OP ARTERIES. connexion to surrounding parts. It consists of condensed cellulo- fibrous tissue, strengthened by an interlacement of glistening fibres, which are partly longitudinal and partly encircle the cylinder of the tube in an oblique direction. Upon the surface the cellular tissue is loose, to permit of the movements of the artery in distention and contraction. The middle or contractile coat is that upon which the thickness and contractility of the artery depend ; it is yellowish in colour, and brittle, so as to be cut through by the thread in the ligature of a vessel. The internal or serous coat is a thin serous membrane which lines the interior of the artery, and gives it a smooth polished sur- face. It is continuous with the lining membrane of the heart, and through the medium of the capillaries with that of the venous system. In intimate structure an artery is somewhat complicated. The internal coat, for example, is composed of two layers, and the middle of three, so that, with the external coat, there are six layers entering into the composition of an artery. The innermost coat is a tesselated epithelium, analogous to that of other serous membranes. The second coat from within is a thin, rigid membrane, pierced with a number of round or oval-shaped holes, and supporting a thin layer of flat longitudinal fibres. From these characters it has been denominated the fenestrated or striated coat. The third layer, which is the innermost part of the middle coat, is composed of flat, longitudinal fibres, analogous to those of organic muscle. The fourth layer, the thickest of the whole, is composed of muscular fibres of organic life, arranged in a circular direction around the vessel. The fifth, or outermost part of the middle coat, is a thin layer of elastic tissue; this is present only in the large arteries. The sixth is the external or cellulo-fibrous coat. The arteries in their distribution through the body are included in a loose cellulo-fibrous investment, which separates them from surrounding tissues, and is called a sheath. Around the principal vessels the sheath is an important structure ; it is composed of cellulo-fibrous tissue, intermingled with tendinous fibres, and is continuous with the fascia of the region in which the arteries are situated, as with the thoracic and cervical fascia in the neck, trans- versalis and Uiac fascia, fascia lata in the thigh, &c. The sheath of the arteries contains also their accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. The coats of arteries are supplied with blood like other organs of the body, and the vessels distributed to them are named vasa vasorum. They are also provided with nerves; but the mode of distribution of the nerves is at present unknown. In the consideration of the arteries, we shall first describe the aorta, and the branches of that trunk with their subdivisions, which together constitute the efferent portion of the systemic circulation;