ILIAC FASCIA.—PELVIC FASCIA. 295 the opposing parietes. This portion of the wall of the abdomen is strengthened by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, which is pressed before the hernia, and forms one of its investments. Its coverings are, the Integument, Superficial fascia, Intercolumnar fascia, Conjoined tendon, Transversalis fascia, Peritoneal sac. Direct inguinal hernia differs from oblique, firstly, in never at- taining the same bulk, in consequence of the resisting nature of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis and trans- versalis fascia ; secondly, in its direction, having a tendency to pro- trude from the middle line rather than towards it. Thirdly, in making for itself a new passage through the abdominal parietes, instead of following a natural channel; and fourthly, in the relation of the neck of its sac to the epigastric artery ; that vessel lying to the outer side of the opening of the sac of direct hernia, and to the inner side of that of oblique hernia. All the forms of inguinal hernia are designated scrotal, when they have descended into the cavity of the scrotum. The Fascia iliaca (lumbo-iliaca) is the aponeurotic investment of the psoas and iliacus muscle ; and, like the fascia transversalis, is thick below, and becomes gradually thinner as it ascends. It is attached superiorly, along the edge of the psoas, to the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, to the liga- mentum arcuatum internum, and to the bodies of the lumbar verte- brae, leaving arches corresponding with the constricted portions of the vertebrae for the passage of the lumbar vessels. Lower down it passes beneath the external iliac vessels, and is attached along the margin of the true pelvis ; externally it is connected to the crest of the ilium; and, inferiorly, to the outer two-thirds of Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the fascia transversalis. Passing beneath Poupart's ligament, it surrounds the psoas and iliacus muscles to their termination, and beneath the inner part of the femoral arch forms the posterior segment of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The Fascia pelvica is an aponeurotic layer situated beneath the peritoneum, forming a covering to the walls of the pelvis, and reflected from its walls upon the viscera. The pelvic fascia is attached to the internal surface of the ossa pubis near the symphysis, to the body of the pubes above the origin of the obturator internus muscle, to the ilio-pectineal line of the brim of the pelvis as far back as the sacro-iliac articulation, and to the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. Having descended upon the wall of the