GENERAL ANATOMY OF LYMPHATICS. 406 anastomoses of the lymphatic vessels. The valves occur most nu- merously near the lymphatic glands ; next in frequency they are found in the neck and upper extremities where the vessels are small, and least numerously in the lower limbs where the lymphatics are large. In the thoracic duct an interspace of two or three inches frequently occurs between the valves. Connected with the presence of valves in the lymphatic vessels, are two lateral dilatations or pouches, analogous to the valvxdar sinuses of veins. These sinuses are situated on the cardiac side of the valves ; they receive the valves when the latter are thrown back by the current of the lymph; and when reflux occurs, they become distended with a body of fluid which makes pressure on the flaps. These pouch-like dilatations and the constrictions corresponding with the line of attachment of the convex borders of the flaps are the cause of the knotted appear- ance of distended lymphatic vessels. Like arteries and veins, lymphatic vessels are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The external coat is cellulo- fibrous, like that of bloodvessels; it is thin, but very strong, and serves to connect the vessel to surrounding tissues, at the same time that it forms a protective covering. The middle coat is thin and elastic, and consists of a layer of longitudinal fibres analogous to those of the innermost layer of the middle coat of arteries and veins. Some few circular fibres may be seen externally to these in the larger lymphatic vessels. The internal coat is inelastic arid more liable to rupture than the other coats. It is a serous layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins, and invested by epithelium. The valves are composed of a very thin layer of fibrous tissue coated on its two surfaces by epithelium. The lymphatic glands (conglobate, absorbent) are smaU oval and somewhat flattened or rounded bodies, composed of a plexus of minute lymphatic vessels, associated with a plexus of bloodvessels, and enclosed in a thin capsule of cellular tissue. When examined on the surface they are seen to have a lobulated appearance, while the face of a section is cellular from the division of the numberless convolutions which are formed by the lymphatic vessels within its substance. The colour of the glands is a pale pink, excepting those of the lungs, the bronchial glands, which in the adult are more or less mottled with black, and are sometimes filled with a black pigment. Lymphatic glands are larger in the young subject than in the adult, and are smallest in old age ; they, as weU as their vessels, are supplied with arteries, veins and nerves, like other structures. I shall describe the lymphatic vessels and glands according to the arrangement adopted for the veins, commencing with those of the head and neck, and proceeding next to those of the upper extremity, lower extremity, and trunk.