462 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. The Ophthalmic nerve is the nerve of sensation of the eyeball, lachrymal gland, mucous membrane of the eye and nose, integument of the forehead and nose, and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead. It arises from the upper part of the Casserian ganglion by a short trunk, about three quarters of an inch in length; passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous ^inus, lying externally to the other nerves, and divides into three branches. Previously to its division it receives several filaments from the carotid plexus, and gives off a small recurrent nerve, that passes backwards with the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve between the two layers of the tentorium to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. The Branches of the ophthalmic nerve are, the— Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The Frontal nerve enters the orbit immediately to the outer side of the fourth nerve, and passing forwards, for some distance, upon the levator palpebrse muscle, divides into a supra-orbital and supra- trochlear branch. The supra-orl>ital branch, the proper continuation of the nerve, passes out of the orbit through the supra-orbital notch, in company with the supra-orbital artery, and after giving filaments to the upper eyelid, muscles of the forehead and pericranium, divides into two cutaneous branches internal and external. The internal hranch pierces the occipito-frontalis and is distributed to the integument as far as the summit of the head. The external branch of larger size communicates with the facial nerve, and piercing the occipito-frontalis supplies the integument as far back as the occiput. The supra-trochlear branch passes inwards to the angle of the orbit, above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and is distri- buted to the inner angle of the eye, the root of the nose, and the integument of the middle line of the forehead. It communicates with the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The Lachrymal nerve, the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic, enters the orbit on the outer side of the frontal, but enclosed in a separate sheath of dura mater ; and passes forwards, above the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and in com- pany with the lachrymal artery to the lachrymal gland, where it divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The superior branch passes over the gland which it supplies on the upper surface, and traversing a foramen in the malar bone, communicates with the gubcutaneus mal^ and facial nerve. The inferior branch sup- plies the under surface of the gland, the upper lid and outer angle of the eye. The lachrymal nerve sometimes receives the branch of the fourth nerve passing through the foramen ovale. 19. Intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve; the nerve joining it from the front is the nervus petrosus superfieialis major. 20. Continuation of the facial nerve along the aqueductus FaUopii to the stylo-mastoid foramen.