310 AORTA. and tlien the pulmonary artery as the efferent trunk of the pulmonary circulation. AORTA. The Aorta arises from the left ventricle, at the middle of the root of the heart, and presents at its commencement an enlargement (bulbus aortas) caused by three dilatations of the walls of the vessel, the sinus aortici (sinus Valsalvas) and corresponding with the three semilunar valves. It ascends at first forwards and to the right, then curves backwards and to the left, and descends on the left side of the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar vertebra. Hence it is divided into the arch and descending aorta. The Arch op the aorta (arcus aortse), commencing at a point corresponding with the articulation of the cartilage of the fourth rib with the sternum on the left side, crosses behind and near the sternum to a point corresponding with the upper border of the arti- culation of the second rib with the sternum on the right side. It then curves backwards and to the left, and descends to the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, and at the lower border of the latter vertebra becomes the thoracic aorta. The first or ascending portion of the arch (aorta ascendens), a little more than two inches in length, is almost wholly contained within the pericardium. It is crossed in front by the pulmonary artery; on its left side it has the left auricle and pulmonary artery; on its right the right auricle and superior vena ca-va; and behind the right pulmonary artery and veins. The second or transverse portion of the arch is crossed in front hj the left phrenic nerve, left nervus superficialis cordis, left inferior cardiac of the pneumogastric, and left pneumogastric nerve. Behind it is in relation with the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, the nerves to the deep cardiac plexus, and the left recurrent nerve. Above it gives off the arteria innominata, left carotid and left subclavian artery, and supports the left vena innominata ; and below is in relation with the superficial cardiac plexus, the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary artery, cord of the ductus arteriosus, left bronchus, and left recurrent nerve. The third or descending portion of the arch lies against the third dorsal vertebra, and is partially covered by the left pleura. Aorta descenders. —The descending aorta is subdivided in cor- respondence with the two great cavities of the trunk, into the thoracic and abdominal aorta. Aorta thoracica.—The thoracic aorta commencing at the lower border and left side of the third dorsal vertebra curves gently towards the right as it descends, and as it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm lies \ipon the middle line of the vertebral column. It is in relation behind, with the vertebral column and lesser vena azygos; in front, with the oesophagus and right pneumogastric