INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. 546 Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the tympanum are derived from the internal maxillary, internal carotid, and posterior auricular. Its Nerves Sive—1. Minute branches from the facial, which are distributed to the stapedius muscle. 2. The chorda tympani, which leaves the facial nerve near the stylo-mastoid foramen, and arches upwards to enter the tympanum at the root of the pyramid; it then passes forwards between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to its proper opening in the fissura Glaseri. 3. The tympanic branches of Jacohson^s nerve, which are distributed to the membranes of the fenesti-a ovalis and fenestra rotunda, and to the Eustachian tube, and form a plexus by communicating with the carotid plexns, otic ganglion, and Vidian nerve. 4. A filament from the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. Internal ear.—The Internal ear is called labyrinth, from the complexity of its communications ; it consists of a membranous and an osseous portion. The osseous labyrinth presents a series of cavi- ties, which are channelled through the substance of the petrous bone, and is situated between the cavity of the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus. It is divisible into the— Vestibule, Semicircular canals. Cochlea. The Vestibule is a small three-cornered cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated immediately within the inner wall of the tympanum. The three corners, which are named ventricles or cornna, are placed, one anteriorly, one superiorly, and one posteriorly. The Anterior ventricle receives the oval aperture of the scala vesti- buli; the superior, the ampuUary openings of the superior and hori- zontal semicircular canal; the posterior, the ampullary opening of the oblique semicircular canal, the common aperture of the oblique and perpendicular canal, the termination of the horizontal canal, and the aperture of the aquseductus vestibuli. In the anterior ven- tricle is a small depression, which corresponds with the posterior segment of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus; it is called the fovea hemispherica, and is pierced by a cluster of small openings, the macula cribrosa. In the superior ventricle of the vestibule is another small depression, the fovea elliptica, which is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a projecting crest, the eminentia pyramidalis. The latter is pierced by numerous minute openings for the passage of nervons filaments. T«he posterior ven- tricle presents a third small depression, the fovea sidciformis, which leads upwards to the ostium aquseductus vestibuli. The internal wall of the vestibule corresponds with the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus, and is pierced by numerous small openings for the transmission of nervous filaments. In the external or tympanic wall is the reniform opening of the fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli), the margin of which presents a prominent rim towards the cavity of the vestibule.