making the patient inhale the vapour of sulphuric ether. The information was received in London on the 18th December, 1846, and on the 21st Mr. Liston, at University College Hospital, per- formed amputation of the thigh and avulsion of the toe nail, the patients being quite unconscious of pain. The same night he wrote a note to one of my friends in Glasgow, who had been a student of his, informing him as to this property of ether. Im- mediately on the receipt of this intelligence, I tried the experi- ment on myself, in presence of my father, who was at that time Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, and other friends, with complete success ; although my father put the insensibility to rather a severe test. I was thus the first person in Scotland who was made insensible to pain by the inhalation of ether. This is an old story now; but to me the memory of it comes back with all the vividness of a first year student. It is un- necessary to take up your time just now with any remarks on Ansesthesia; but there is one point which I think has escaped the notice it deserves. In estimating the number of deaths which have happened under chloroform there are various sources of error, one of which was forced on my attention in a most remarkable way. When we consider the very small number of deaths from chloro- form, and the large number of instantaneous or sudden deaths arising from what are called natural causes, the question arises—“ Have none of these alleged chloroform deaths been really examples of death which would have happened independently of the admini- stration of chloroform ? ” Three years ago a patient with a small tumour on the lip was recommended to me by Professor Allen Thomson. The patient and his wife took apartments in the vicinity of my house for my convenience. A day was fixed for the operation ; but on the morning I received an urgent call to the country, so that the operation was postponed. The same evening the landlady called on me to tell me that her lodger had gone out for a walk in the forenoon and had not returned. Next morning I received the startling intelligence that my patient had fallen down dead on the street at about midday, the very hour I had appointed for the operation. Had I at the critical moment Reen administering chloroform, I have no doubt that I myself wou have attributed to it the death which happened as I have stated. When I was house-surgeon in the Royal Infirmary there was admitted to my wards a patient suffering from vesico-vaginal fistula, at that time a most intractable affection. The gentleman under whom I was acting was an ingenious surgeon and clever operator—the late Dr. William Lyon—and he made many