9 and when it is remembered that in every case medical treatment had proved of no avail, and death from suffocation was imminent, it must be conceded the results have been most gratifying. The history of Ovariotomy is one of the most interesting topics of modern surgery. During the first half of this century isolated attempts were made by various surgeons to remove Ovarian cysts, some of them with success; but with such a preponderance of mortality, that many of the most distinguished surgeons maintained that it was utterly indefensible, and could not be “ encouraged and continued without danger to the character of the profession.” Between 1840 and 1850 several fortunate results were obtained by Dr. Clay of Manchester and others; and in 1858 Sir Spencer Wells began that series of improvements in attention to details of operating and after-treatment, which gave rise to his unprecedented success, and established the operation on a permanent footing. Before I was appointed surgeon to the Infirmary Dr. Lyon had made two attempts, at both of which I was present; but in both instances the result was fatal in a few hours. Being convinced that Mr. Wells’ success must depend on some minutiae with which we were not acquainted, I went to London to see him, having made his acquaintance when we were attached to the same hospital during the Crimean War. 1 accompanied him to several of his private operations, and care- fully observed every step of the proceedings. In April, 1864, I performed the operation on a patient in the Infirmary, and I had the pleasure of placing on record the first successful case qB Ovariotomy in Glasgow or the West of Scotland. Since then it has been yearly performed with an amount of success equal to that of any capital operation. Cancer of the tongue is one of the most distressing of surgical affections. The gnawing pain prevents sleep and exhausts the sufferer, who is in great part deprived of the power of speech and swallowing. When only a small part is affected, it is easy to remove it; but when a large portion is invaded the operation is a serious matter. It is necessary to cut away not only the diseased structure, but also a part of the sound tissue beyond, in order to avoid the risk of a return of the disease. Even after the most perfect operation the disease often recurs, either in the remaining O part of the tongue or the adjacent glands; but it is certain to do so unless the cancerous part is completely removed. Owino- to the extensive attachments of the tongue, it is very difficult to get access to it so as to make the incisions sufficiently free; and accordingly, in 1864, Mr. Syme proposed and executed a modifi-