11 symptoms of stone ; and on examination I detected its presence. Being a relative of my own, I declined to operate ; and he selected Mr. Syme, who removed two calculi each the size of a nutmeg. Three years after the urinary symptoms reappeared, and again I discovered a stone. But this time my patient declared he would not submit to the cutting operation, and Mr. Syme was consulted about lithotrity. This he declined to perform, and said he would advise the patient to bear the pain of the stone, rather than undergo the risk and uncertainty of the crushing operation. My patient, accordingly, proceeded to London, where I saw Sir Henry Thompson operate on him. I saw several other cases, and was so impressed with the value of the operation that I procured a case of instruments, and came home determined to practise the operation here. I had to wait for a suitable case till the 6th of July, 1866, on which day I performed lithotrity in presence of the students of the Infirmary. The case terminated favourably, and I have frequently performed it since with great success; and I am glad to say that others are adopting it in preference to lithotomy in suitable cases.'* There are few deformities more distressing to the patient, or to the parents if it is a child that is in question, than talipes varus, or club foot. From a very early period of my professional life it has fallen to my lot to operate on these cases. At first I was in the habit of performing the operation necessary to remedy the deformity in the manner recommended in the most reliable treatises on the subject; but I was dissatisfied with the slowness of the improvement, and also with the ultimate result. On studying some cases, I became satisfied that the deformity depended more on the structures in the sole of the foot than on the tendons of the leg. The incision recommended by most authors was evidently made without any well defined object, and naturally failed in its effect. By altering the position, direction, and depth of the incision, I was enabled to divide those structures which I believe to be at fault, and the result altogether exceeded my expectation. This is not the place to enter into detail; but some of the most obstinate cases have yielded after these deep incisions.t In cases of extreme deformity I now excise some part of the tarsus. The next example is a curious illustration of the application of physiological knowledge to the treatment of disease. It was originated by a German surgeon in 1862; but it had suggested * See my paper on Lithotomy and Lithotrity. Published by MacLehose. t See my lecture on Talipes Varus. Published by MacLehose.