6 the sick person himself, and become familiar with his pains and wants, and examine his state with your eyes and hands. There is just one caution, which indeed I need hardly give you—remem- ber we must always have respect for the suffering, in whatever position of life. You will conduct yourselves in presence of dis- ease with that consideration and humanity which is characteristic of our profession. Remember also that the inmates are not all paupers, but many of them of a respectable class of society, who repair to the hospital owing to unforeseen accidents, and because they get nursing and comforts which they cannot command at home, where the number of occupants of the house would militate against the treatment or the success of an operation. In the history of our hospitals the working classes give noble annual contributions, and when they are admitted as inmates we receive them, not as objects of charity, but as contributors to the funds. But I am sure I have no call to do more than direct your attention to this matter, as my previous experience of hospital students leads me to place entire dependence on their discretion and kindliness. Every student should become a dresser, in order to get more immediate charge of a certain number of patients. Each dresser should keep an accurate note of the state of his patient every day, as it is only by comparing the notes of one day with another, that a habit of accurate observation is fostered. Each case should be reported daily in a clinical note-book kept for the purpose. And such reports, made by the student himself, or from the clinical remarks of the surgeon, will be a store of solid practical information, of greater value than all the works on clinical surgery ever published. Nothing conduces more to a correct judgment with regard to any plan of treatment than this daily observation of clinical students. All great improvements in surgery have been carried out under the eyes of students, who can at once detect any error of opinion and calculation, or corroborate any accurate conclusion on points of practice. The advances in surgery thus become public property as soon as introduced, and alterations in treatment which have no real value are soon put to an open test and find their level. Gentlemen, we live in an age of rapid advancement in all branches of science and art, and in our own department we are not lapsing behind. Time would fail me to enumerate all the valuable improvements in surgery during recent years, but perhaps it might interest you if I briefly refer to some within my own experience. Two or three weeks after I was enrolled as a student of medicine news came from across the Atlantic that Mr. Morton, a dentist in Boston, had extracted teeth without causing pain, by