4 experience, however, it almost always degenerates into mechanical routine, and as its days are numbered, I need not detain you by recounting its disadvantages. In one point alone it is of value— viz., in accustoming the student to deal with patients individually, and in their private sick rooms. A young surgeon who has been educated solely in hospital, and is in the habit of seeing patients collected in wards and spoken to in public, is apt to feel awkward in the first days of his practice, when he begins to exercise his calling in the quietness and anxiety of the sick room. I have often thought that an extension of our dispensary arrangements might be beneficial both to students and the sick poor—some plan by which senior students would be sent to attend poor people in their own houses, and in difficulty appeal for assistance to the dispensary staff.# So much has this want of home experience been forced upon me, that I am in the habit of taking my dressers in rotation to assist me in my private operations, and to delegate part of the dressing to them ; and I can appeal to many of my former students, if that part of their training has not been both acceptable and useful. Private tuition, however, whether by apprenticeship or otherwise, being available for only one or two at a time, in a great school like this, we must deal with the students as a body, and not as individuals. For this purpose we have recourse to the hospital where cases of all kinds of surgical accident and disease are admitted. The students standing round the bed of the patient, endeavour to put themselves in the place of the surgeon while he investigates the history and causes of the disease, noting each fact as it is stated. They observe the methods adopted for examining into the case, and are taught under the eye of the surgeon to examine it for themselves. After all the necessary information has been elicited, they are led to form a correct opinion—the surgeon either putting questions to them, or giving them a short address, or, what is perhaps more useful, thinking aloud while the examination is going on. The appropriate treatment is then explained or carried out, either by the surgeon himself, or by the dressers appointed to the ward. Day after day the students watch the progress of the case, which is thus impressed upon their minds, and becomes an actual experience. But it is quite obvious that in a large number of the most interesting cases such a method could not be adopted. To a great many patients it would be most hurtful to hear their diseases dis- cussed and explained in their presence, especially when they are * This is now being accomplished.