itself to me two years previously. In the winter of 1859 I was engaged in making some dissections of the palate and pharynx, for the purpose of illustrating to my students the mechanism of swallowing. In examining the levator palati muscle I was satisfied that, in consequence of its origin from the lower part of the orifice of the Eustachian tube, its action in raising the soft palate would at the same time draw down and so open the orifice. It was obvious that the change in the position of the palate from its pendulous to its horizontal direction would diminish the capacity of the upper or nasal compartment of the pharynx, and so expel some of the contained air from the nostril. Now it occurred to me, that if the nostrils were firmly held together by the finger and thumb during an act of deglutition, advantage might be taken of the double action of the levator jpalati to get some of the air thus compressed forced into the Eustachian tube, which might be of service in clearing away any temporary obstacle which was a cause of Eustachian deafness. Just at this time a young lady, in a family upon whom I was making a professional visit, asked me if I could do anything for deafness. I said I did not profess to practice aural surgery; but requested her, after I left, to swallow some water two or three times while she held her nostrils compressed between her finger and thumb. Judge of my surprise when I called next morning, to be told that after swallowing the third time she experienced a sensation of crackling in her ear, and the deafness instantaneously disappeared and did not return. I recounted and explained the circumstance to my students that day; and every year since, when demonstrating the structure of the palate, I have mentioned it in connection with the physiology of swallowing. In 1862 Politzer of Vienna published his new method of restoring Eustachian deafness, by the very means I have described, with the addition of the introduction of a stream of condensed air, admitted to the pharynx by a tube passed through one of the compressed nostrils. Politzerization, as it is now called, is one of the regular proceedings of aurists, and is an almost certain way of removing deafness caused by Eustachian obstruc- tion. It is strange how long a time sometimes intervenes between the announcement of an undoubted improvement in surgical oper- ations and its acceptance by the profession. I hold in my hand a little volume, published in 1806 by Dr. Jeffrey, at that time Professor of Anatomy in this University. It contains an account of several cases of excision of carious joints—two of the knee, by Mr. Park, of Liverpool, performed as long ago as 1781, and three