13 of the elbow, by M. Moreau in France, at the beginning of this century. It also contains a commentary on the subject by Dr. Jeffrey, and the description of a saw which he invented to facilitate the proceedings. But the operation did not produce that impres- sion on the surgeons of the day which might have been expected; and it lay almost in abeyance till Mr. Syme rescued it from oblivion, and by adopting it systematically as a substitute for amputation of the arm, became practically the introducer into this country of the now universal excision of the elbow. He also extended it to the shoulder, but strongly objected to its applica- tion to the wrist, hip, knee, or ankle. Other surgeons, especially Sir William Fergusson, applied it to these joints; and Sir Joseph Lister, while surgeon in our Infirmary, contrived a systematic opera- tion for removal of the wrist. This extensive manipulation, however, is rarely required, it often being sufficient to remove with gouge and forceps the diseased portions. In a week or two you will see in the Western Infirmary a patient in whom the disease was so extensive that she came to me to have her arm amputated ; but by the proceeding I have mentioned she has not only retained her hand, but with her fingers she is able to support herself by needle-Woi One of the most remarkable achievements of modern surgery is skin grafting. When a raw surface, whether the result of ulcera- tion, sloughing, or laceration, is very extensive, the process of cicatrization stops before it is all covered. Under these circum- stances the surgeon can transplant a small portion of live skin, which takes root, so to speak, on the raw surface, and is a centre from which cicatrization begins and spreads all around. Cases which formerly were hopeless are now successfully treated by this method. The Antiseptic mode of dressing wounds has, I believe, been a great boon to surgery; but this is not the place to enter into details on a matter which will form the subject of demonstration in our clinical wards.* At the present time improvements in surgical manipulation are daily being introduced. Three or four weeks ago, on entering the Infirmary at the morning visit, a foreign gentleman presented me a card of introduction from a friend at that time residing in Ger- many. The writing was not very legible, and I did not notice the name, but asked the stranger to accompany me. Standing beside the bed of a patient who was recovering from a compound depressed fracture of the frontal bone, without having had a bad *From tlie time that Mr. Lister was appointed surgeon to the Glasgow Loyal Infirmary, in 1861, till he left Glasgow in 1869, I was his colleague in the surgical wards, and witnessed those experiments which resulted in the development of the Antiseptic principles and practice.