14 symptom, I said, “We are indebted in great part to one of your countrymen for our present improved mode of treating such cases. We have been taught almost to abandon the use of the trephine by Stromeyer of Hanover.” “ My father-in-law,” replied my visitor. “ Indeed,” I exclaimed, “ and you are ?” “ Esmarch of Kiel.” It so happened that, on the morning in question, I was to remove a large vascular scrotal tumour. Dr. Esmarch accompanied me to the theatre, and the patient was put under the influence of chloro- form. Turning to Dr. Esmarch, I said, “ It is a great pity that your bloodless method is not applicable to such a case, as I shall operate with great anxiety, owing to the exhausted condition of the man and the great vascularity of the tumour.” He at once undertook to apply pressure in a way which, he believed, would prevent any haemorrhage. Being provided with a long India rubber tube, he passed it round the base of the scrotum, across the pubis, and round the loins, and fixed it in front of the abdo- men. To my surprise and delight, I removed the great mass by a complicated and tedious dissection, without the loss of any blood except what escaped at the first incision from the gorged veins on the surface. The man was dismissed with the wound quite healed in three weeks, and I have no doubt the rapidity of his recovery was in great part owing to his having been spared the loss of blood. But time would fail me were I to recount all the recent ad- vances in surgical science and manipulation. The foregoing examples will serve to prove my position. And now, gentlemen, in bringing these remarks to a close let me say one word as to our new hospital. Constructed on the best known principles, provided with all the most approved appliances, it gives promise of a great future. There you will have abundant opportunity for clinical observation and instruction; you will lose no time in going from the hospital to your class rooms; and if, during the day, anything of interest or importance should occur in the wards which it would be for your advantage to see, a message can be sent in a few minutes to the University, and at the close of your lecture hour you can go down to the hospital, so that you are in a position to utilize to the utmost the facilities afforded you by the proximity of the hospital. It is for you to take advantage of the opportunities now afforded to you, so as to be a credit to your profession and to your University.