10 It f- cation of previous operations, by dividing the lower jaw at the symphysis, separating the two halves, and removing the whole organ from its attachments to the hyoid bone. This bold pro- ceeding was in the first examples followed by a fatal result; but in a fourth case, by leaving the attachments to the chin undivided, he succeeded in removing the whole tongue with perfect success, the patient being able afterwards both to speak and swallow. It was obvious that the earlier operations were fatal in consequence of the extent of the mutilation, and division of the muscles which steady the hyoid bone. On reflecting on the nature of the disease, it occurred to me that a much less severe mutilation might serve the purpose. Cancer of the tongue most frequently begins at the side, caused by friction against a broken tooth, or the irritation produced by smoking a short pipe. Its progress is frequently to creep backwards, but it rarely crosses to the other side till it has invaded almost the whole of that in which it began. A case of this disease was admitted under my care in the Infirmary in May, 1865, which gave me the opportunity of putting my idea into execution. I followed the first steps of Mr. Syme’s proceeding. I then cleft the tongue from the tip to the hyoid bone, and removed the whole of the diseased half by a lateral cut. Examination of the excised half showed that my knife had gone quite beyond the disease. The patient made a good recovery, and is alive and well at the present day (and is so now in 1888) in Lochranza in Arran ; she is known to almost every one on the island. I consider that the plan of removing the lateral affected half, instead of the whole organ, which I have now frequently performed, is not only free from danger, but promises most satisfactory results. The treatment of stone in the bladder is a subject always most interesting to students. When I was a student lithotomy was the only operation performed for its relief; and up till the time I became surgeon of the Infirmary in 1860, the other form of operation, viz., lithotrity, was practically ignored. Lectures on it were given in the systematic courses; but only to mention it as a surgical curiosity, or with the hope that further improvements would secure its ultimate adoption. The operation tables of the Infirmary, from 1796 till 1858, contain records of only seven cases, and of these, four were in female patients; so that, in truth, in Glasgow, and in most parts of Scotland, the subject of lithotrity was a dead letter. The way in which I was induced to adopt it is rather interesting, at least to myself. In 1861 a gentleman, aged sixty-four, consulted me with