8 attempts to improve the patient by operative and other means, but without avail. As usual in such cases, the patient was dis- missed in statu quo, although at the present day an operation would be performed with almost perfect certainty of success. Shortly after that Dr. Marion Sims of New York began to make that O affection his study, and by the most painstaking efforts succeeded in contriving one of the most ingenious operations in surgery. But Dr. Sims’ example did not produce many imitators, probably from the extreme intricacy of the steps of the proceeding; so that in 1858 no operation of that kind had been done here except one done by Dr. Wallace of Greenock, in nearly the way advised by Dr. Sims. In 1858 Dr. Bozeman, a pupil of Dr. Sims, came over to visit this country, and was introduced to me. He brought the instruments with him, having made some slight modifications on them. He expressed a desire to exhibit the mode of operating, and as I was acting temporarily for the late Mr. George Watt, surgeon to the Infirmary, I got the sanction of the superintendent to delegate the operation to a stranger. A case of this affection having been admitted, Dr. Bozeman, in presence of the whole hospital staff, performed the operation, which resulted in a perfect success; and in the Glasgow Medical Journal for August, 1858,1 reported the first successful operation, by this method, in the Boyal Infirmary. Since that time it has been frequently performed with a large amount of success. In 1860 I was hurriedly sent for to see a little patient, ap- parently moribund from suffocation, the result of an attack of croup. Although the case seemed hopeless, I determined to perform tracheotomy, and had the satisfaction of seeing the breath restored. Three weeks after the child was running about the house quite well. Encouraged by this success—well knowing the happy experience of M. Trousseau and others in Paris—I performed the operation in other cases, and when I had reached the number of nine I brought the subject under the notice of the Medico- Chirurgical Society. Most of the surgeons of the present dis- qppm.v£.d of the proceeding, and maintained that it was both unnecessary and improper, and discouraged me from continuing it; but I shall not soon forget the encouragement I got from two of The most eminent physicians of the Society, the late Dr. A. D. Anderson, and my colleague, Prof. Gairdner. I have now operated more than fifty times, and saved over one-third of the patients; * In 1887 the statistics of my operations of tracheotomy, for croup and diph- theria were—total, 53: died, 32; cured, 21. See also Transactions of Inter- national Medical Congress. London, 1881. Diseases of Children.