of a dangerous nature, and when a serious operation is necessary as a part of the treatment. In all cases we desire to spare the feelings of the sick—both from motives of humanity and as an element of successful treatment. Accordingly, when there is any- thing which would be unpleasant or prejudicial to be stated at the bedside, the surgeon repairs with his students to the class room, where he is free to give without reserve his candid opinion from a review of the whole circumstances noted. But inasmuch as all are not equally fortunate in getting near the bedside—though arrangements will be made for attaining that position in rotation—a different mode is adopted at the lectures on clinical surgery, a plan to make the instruction equally available to all who are present in the theatre; that is, to bring the patients from the wards into the place of lecture. The patient is placed in a chair, or if he is unable to walk remains on the bed which has been brought from the ward. He is then examined just as formerly described, and removed to an adjoining apartment. A commentary is then given on the disease, and frequently at the end, or during this description, he is brought back, to enable the surgeon to point out anything important which may have escaped notice. The patient being removed, the treatment is explained, and any operation necessary may be described in all its details without any reserve. If an urgent operation is required, it is performed at the end of the lecture ; if not, it is done in the presence of the students on the next operating day. At a subse- quent lecture the students are informed of the result of the opera- tion, and in the interval they have the opportunity of visiting the case in the ward. In this way a clinical lecture is a condensed commentary on a particular example of disease, which is presented before the students. It differs from the systematic lecture by concentrating into a focus all the essential points, and is in fact, as nearly as possible, a guide to the management of a similar ease which may happen in the future practice of the hearers. By a series of these isolated lessons the student gathers his general principles, and has his mind stored with vivid examples which he never forgets. It must be obvious, therefore, that clinical instruction is the most vital part of a student’s education. But while it is simple enough to decide on the best method of conveying this information, everything depends on the way in which it is received. On yourselves you must rest for the acquisition of the knowledge offered to you. You will soon ex- perience that to see and to observe are two different things, just as different as to hear and to learn. You must therefore go to