422 PRACTICAL ANATOMY bone; here it dips deeply with the deep division of the nerve, and is lost to sight for the present. Now study the second layer of the sole muscles. These are the two long tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis with the muscles attached to them, namely, the accessorius and the four lumbricales (Fig. 179). Pick up the fiexor longus digitorum tendon where it was last seen behind the internal malleolus. From this point it runs dowmvards and forwards to the inner side of the sus- tentaculum tali. Very soon after this it will be seen crossing superficial to (below) the flexor longus hallucis, to which it sometimes gives or from which it sometimes receives rein- forcing fibres. Directly after this the tendon divides into four slips for the four outer toes, the outermost of which receives the insertion of the accessorius, usually on its deep surface. Each tendon runs forwards into the theca of its own toe, one of which has already been slit up so that the tendon may be seen piercing that of the flexor brevis digitorum in the manner already described. The insertion will be traced to the plantar surface of the base of the terminal phalanx of the toe. The flexor longus hallucis was last seen behind the lower end of the tibia just external to the posterior tibial vessels and nerves. It hardly grooves the tibia at all, but on tracing it down behind the ankle-joint it will be seen to groove the back of the astragalus very deeply and to enter a_ very definite tunnel of fibrous tissue, which should be slit up. This leads it to tho groove below the sustentaculum tali, after which the tendon runs forward, along the inner side of the foot, deep to the flexor longus digitorum to be inserted into the plantar surface of the base of the termmal phalanx of the big toe. The accessorius [m. quadratus plantar] has two heads ot origin—an inner, fleshy, from the inner concave surface of the calcaneum, and an outer, smaller and tendinous, from just