396 PRACTICAL ANATOMY of the leg, in the pre-peroneal groove. From this point, where it pierces the deep fascia, it courses downwards and inwards. The superficial fascia may now be removed, while carefully preserving the nerves. The deep fascia will be noticed as a very strong fibrous covering, through which the muscles of the compartment can be seen, the positions of the intermus- cular septa being indicated by white lines. In the upper part the deep fascia may be seen to include a number of fibres derived from the tendon of the biceps, while the lower part has incorporated in it a number of transverse fibres, to which the name of anterior annular ligament has been given. These fibres form two distinct bundles, one above and the other below the line of the ankle-joint. Of these the lower, the upper edge of which alone can be seen at present, is usually the better marked, and will be examined in the dis- section of the dorsum of the foot. The deep fascia must now be removed, but in doing so it is as well to begin from below and retain the bands of the anterior annular ligament, for they keep the underlying structures, even after dissection, in their proper position. Special care must be taken not to cut away the upper part of the anterior annular ligament [lig. transversum cruris]; it runs, nearly horizontally across, between the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and is about an inch in breadth. In stripping off the deep fascia of the upper part of the leg, it will be noticed that the muscles deep to it take a considerable part of their origin from it. The muscles in the upper part of the compartment are almost inseparable, but after the muscular belUes have passed into rounded tendons, the triple nature of the mass becomes manifest. It is advisable to pick up the tendons immediately above the ankle-joint and to trace them upwards to their respective muscular portion. The tendons from within out- wards are those of the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprkts hallucis, and Extensor longus digitorum muscles. Of these three muscles the first and last take origin as high as the external tuberosity of the tibia, whereas the extensor longus