165 THE NECK and from this loop, though mainly derived from the first cervical nerve, some reinforcing fibres are given off to the hypoglossal, which is here behind the vagus. It is this communication Avhich really deserves the name of the com- municans hypogiossi, and these are the fibres which come off the hypoglossal again, lower down, as the ramus descendens hypogiossi, the nerve to the thyro-hyoid, and the nerve to the genio-hyoid. Sometimes the vagus, instead of the hypoglossal, picks up the communication from the first cervical, and in that case the ramus descendens hypogiossi is a branch of it and is really a ramus descendens vagi. This is a fairly common occurrence. From the ganglion of the trunk the vagus gives off its pharyngeal and superior laryngeal tranches. The former passes inwards between the external and internal carotid arteries to the pharyngeal plexus, the latter passing deep to both carotids and, in doing so, dividing into external and internal laryngeal nerves, which have already been found (see p. 103). The cervical part of the Sympathetic Cord lies behind the common and internal carotid arteries and in front of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras, quite close to the groove which marks the division between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus muscles. It is therefore a close relation to the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery. Of its three ganglionic swell- ings, the Superior Cervical Ganglion [G. cervicale superius] is by far the largest, often having a length of 1| inch; it is easily recognised by its dark colour and fusiform shape, and is found in front of the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebrae. Above, it gives off one or two branches which run up with the internal carotid artery into the skull. Externally, twigs of communication with the four upper cervical nerves must be looked for, while, although it is difficult to see, it is very important to realise that\ svm- I