207 THE ORBIT Now trace the nasal nerve on the right side from the anterior lacerated foramen forwards and inwards, above the optic nerve, until it reaches the inner wall of the orbit at the anterior ethmoidal canal. Here it gives off an infra- trocJdear branch, which runs forwards to form a delicate loop with the supratrochlear already mentioned. From this loop the lacrimal sac is supplied. The roof of the ethmoidal canal may be carefully chiselled away, and then the continuity of the orbital and cranial stages of the nerve will be complete. While the nasal nerve is still on the outer side of the optic nerve it gives off a small twig containing sensory and sympathetic fibres to the ciliary ganglion, a structure about the size of a pin's head, which is embedded in the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus and not far in front of the anterior lacerated foramen (see Fig. 99, C.G.). It is important to find this ganglion if possible, as most of the nerve supply of the eyeball passes through it. In addi- tion to the sensory and sympathetic fibres just noticed from the nasal nerve, it receives a root containing motor fibres fi'om the branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle. From the front of it the short ciliary nerves will be seen running to pierce the sclerotic round the point at which the optic nerve enters. Where the nasal nerve is crossing the optic nerve, look for the two long ciliary branches which run forward to pierce the sclerotic with the short ciliaries.^ If the ganglion and ciliary nerves are not found on the right side, they should be looked for on the left, though things have been more disturbed here. The ophthalmic artery should now be traced. It was seen passing through the optic foramen below and outside the optic nerve, so that at the back of the orbit it should be looked for on the outer side of the nerve. It then crosses, usually above, the nerve and runs a tortuous course towards the posterior ethmoidal foramen in the inner wall of the 1 Modern research makes it probableJJiatsome at least of the sympathetic fibres pass through the long ciliary net^DSi^^of through the ganglion.