348 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the iliac crost to the outer tuberosity of the tibia—the ilio- tihial hand. The lower deep fibres are inserted into the gluteal ridge on the femur, as will be seen later. The gradual separation of the muscle from its origin, and its complete reflexion outwards, necessitate the division of certain vessels and nerves which enter the deep surface of the muscle; they are the superficial branches or tributaries of the gluteal vessels and the inferiorghdeal nerve. Before these structures are divided, however, they should be scrupulously cleaned, and it is often convenient to cut out and leave small balls of muscle around the terminations of the inferior gluteal nerve, so that the nerve, when thrown back, may not be mistaken for the small sciatic. At this stage the insertion of the lower deep fibres into the gluteal ridge of the femur should be exposed. By the reflexion of the gluteus maximus a large number of structures of great variety comes into view. The hursce [B. glutaao-femorales] should be first examined, as they tend to dry up. Of these there are three—one over the tuber ischii, one over the lower part of the great trochanter, and one between the fibres of the muscle going to the ilio-tibial band and the vastus externus muscle. In order to expose this last bursa, incise the upper border of the tendon of insertion of the muscle and push the finger down between the two laminas. The finger will enter a large space, and on looking in the glistenmg aponeurosis of the vastus externus muscle can be seen. The other two bursiB should be pinched up, their walls incised, and their cavity explored. They are frequently multilocular, but in old people it is not unusual to find that the bursa superficial to the tuber ischii has been converted into fibrous tissue. After the bursse have been examined, feel by deep pres- sure for the boundaries of the great and small saero-sciatiG foramina. In identifying these, much help will be obtained by making reference to a pelvis or skeleton. Note, further, that between the two foramina the ischial spine can be felt.