PKACTlCAL ANATOMY 404 muscle may now be cut through in order that the nerve may be seen entering its deep surface. The soleus arises from the oblique line on the posterior surface of the tibia and the inner border of the shaft for two inches below the oblique line, from the fibrous arch above- mentioned and from the head and upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula. From this extensive horse-shoe-shaped origin the muscle passes downwards, forming a strong tendon, which, blending with that of the gastrocnemius muscle, forms by far the greater part of the tendo <Achillis. The soleus is supplied on its deep surface by twigs from the internal popliteal and posterior tibial nerves; the latter are, however, not to be seen at present. The soleus should be divided transversely just above the point where its tendon fuses with that of the gastrocnemius. The tendo Achillis can now be turned completely downwards. The portion of the soleus still left in situ should next be divided by a vertical in- cision midway between its inner and outer borders, taking great care not to carry the incision beyond the deep sur- face of the muscle, which is lined by a shining aponeurosis. The two halves may now be turned aside, when a good view will be obtained of its origin as well as of the pos- terior tibial vessels and nerve with twigs from them to the soleus. These vessels and nerve should be carefully cleaned and their branches to adjoining parts followed. In this procedure the deep flexor muscles of the leg will come under observation. These muscles are three in number, the flexor longus hallucis on the outer side, the flexor longus digitorum on the inner side, the tibialis posticus between and to some extent deep to the other two. The posterior tibial nerve [n, interosseus cruris] will be seen crossing the posterior tibial artery from within outwards, while the artery lies, from above downwards, on the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the posterior surface of the lower ex- tremity of the tibia. If the artery be traced to its origin it will be seen to continue the line of the popliteal artery which