THE FACE 117 outwards at right angles to the levator labii superioris pro- prius; then it curves downwards and outwards across the long axis of the zygomatlcus major, while by the time it reaches the level of the mouth it is running directly down- wards at right angles to the risorius. Different parts of this line are accentuated in displaying different emotions. Sometimes a small zygomaticus minor [caput zygo- maticum M. quadrati labii superioris] may be found in front of the zygomaticus major, but it is inconstant and is often merely a slip from the orbicularis palpebrarum. Now cut the levator labii superioris very carefully, and look for the infraorbital branch of the second division of the fifth nerve [N. infraorbitalis] coming through the infra- orbital foramen, the position of which has been localised already (see p. 107). (Fig. 55, I.O. 5th.) The nerve gives oS palpebral, nasal, and labial branches to the skin of the lower eyelid, the side of the nose, and the upper lip. Just below the infraorbital foramen is the origin of the levator anguli oris, which is therefore deep to the levator labii superioris proprius. The facial artery, as a rule, passes between these two muscles. (Fig. 55, L.A.O.) The chin muscles should now be examined, though this will be found difficult, firstly, because they blend very closely with the platysma, and secondly, because the subcutaneous tissue is very dense. There is a depressor anguli oris [M. triangularis], which rises from the external oblique line of the lower jaw and converges to a point at the angle of the mouth, a depressor labii inferioris [M. quadratus labii inferioris], internal to and partly under cover of the last, and a levator menti, which runs down from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, close to the mid line, and is inserted into the skin of the chin. The last muscle is best exposed by dividing the mucous membrane of the lower hp from its attachment to the gum and pulling the lip down. While this is being done the mucous membrane may