214 PRACTICAL ANATOMY outer side of the eye and behind the equator. The inner side, too, can generally be localised by the junction of the optic nerve mentioned above, as well as by the fact that the internal rectus attachment is the broadest of all and nearest the sclero-corneal junction. The upper pole can generally be told by the tendon of the superior oblique being so much narrower than that of the inferior, while the latter is between the external rectus insertion and the optic nerve, and approaches the optic nerve more closely than does the insertion of any other muscle. The diameter of the cornea is about half an inch, slightly greater transversely than vertically. Make an antero-pos- terior section of one eye and an equatorial (transverse vertical) section of the other. This may be done with a really sharp knife or razor, but it is infinitely better to go to a little further trouble and freeze the eyeballs on a freezing microtome, or in a mixture of ice and salt. When they are frozen hard, a fret or other fine saw is the best thing with which to cut them. After this they should be placed in a dish of weak spirit and water, and, as they begin to thaw, their surface lightly brushed with a camel's-hair brush. The author finds a little socket of plasticine an excellent way of keeping them steady. Now examine the sections, and notice that there are three coats: (1) an outer protective formed by the sclerotic [sclera] in the posterior five-sixths, and the cornea in the anterior sixth; (2) an intermediate vascular and pigmented coat, the choroid [chorioidea], posteriorly, and the ciliary bodies, and iris anteriorly; (3) a dehcate nervous inner layer, the retina. Of these coats the innermost is so thin that it tears with the slightest touch. The sclerotic is nearly twice as thick posteriorly, where it is reinforced by the sheath of the optic nerve, as it is at the equator; but in front of that the recti join it, and so it gets a little thicker near its junction with the cornea. The cornea, too, is thicker near the sclero-corneal junc- tion than at the anterior pole of the eye. Both these parts