PRACTICAL ANATOMY 346 middle line. In the line of this incision a number of nerves will be found lying close together in the form of a leash; they are derived from the external branches of the poaterim- primary divisions of the upper three Itvmhar nerves (Fig. 154). Along a line from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx five small nerves should be looked for. The upper three are the largest and are to be found at intervals of an inch; they are from the external branches of the posterior primary divisions of the upper three sacral nerves. The easiest way to find these nerves is to cut through the superficial fascia in the posterior median line and to turn it carefully outwards, keeping a sharp look-out for any fine nerve filaments piercing the deep fascia to enter it. The lower two are extremely minute, and are from the posterior and anterior sacro-coccygeal plexuses in descending order. Winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, internal to the tuber ischii and passing upwards on to the buttock, are a few small and inconstant twigs from the perforating cutaneous nerve, which comes, as a rule, from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third sacral nerves, while passing in the same direction but external to the tuber ischii are larger nerves—the gluteal cutaneous branches of the small sciatic (see Fig. 154). Turnino- now to the outer limit of the buttock, the student may find below the great trochanter a few branches passing obhquely downwards and backwards from the -pos- terior division of the external cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the buttock are thus seen to be numerous and to be derived from various sources, from both the anterior and posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves as high up as the last thoracic and as low as the coccygeal. Accompanying the various nerves are small vessels, the unnamed branches and tributaries of adjoining trunks; the most constant are those accompanying the branches from the upper three sacral nerves—they are from the sciatic vessels.