385 THE THIGH femur. With the handle of the scalpel free the muscle, just below its tendon of origin, from underlying structures, and divide it, turning the muscle downwards, when its nerve of supply, sinking into its deep surface, will be apparent. Clean the deep surface of the muscle, preserving its nerves and any accompanying vascular structures. The muscle which is exposed by this reflexion of the adductor longus is the adductor brevis, the anterior surface of which is covered with fat, in which lie the anterior division of the Obturator Nerve, and the branches derived therefrom to the adductor longus, adductor brevis, adductor gracilis, femoral artery, subsartorial plexus, and the hip-joint. With care most of these branches are readily found. Also lying on the anterior surface of the adductor brevis will be seen the deep femoral artery [a. profunda femoris], with its accompanying vein. Several branches will be observed to spring from this artery, some of which pass to adjacent muscles, whilst others, lying directly on the bone, disappear through fibrous arches' deve- loped in the substance of the adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles at their insertion. These arteries, from their course, have received the name of perforating arteries, and they are usually three or, if the termination of the pro- funda artery be included, four in number. Next clean the anterior surface of the adductor brevis from origin to insertion Note that it arises from the body of the pubis^'and the upper portion of the pubic arch. Its origin from the body of the pubis IS slightly farther from the middle line than is that of the adductor longus. It passes outwards to be inserted into the Imea aspera above and behind the adductor longus reach- ing almost as high as the small trochanter. Now treat the adductor brevis m a similar manner to that adopted with the adductor longus, viz. separate it near its origin from under- lying structures, divide it, and turn it downward. In doin? this a branch from the deep division of the obturator nerve may be found entering its deep surface. By the reflexion of this muscle the adductor magnus wiU be fully exposed, with 2 b