THE INTERNAL EAR 271 pius; it transmits the nerves to the utricle as well as to the ampullated extremities of the superior and external semi- circular canals (see Fig. 123). Between the fovea hemispherica and hemiehptica there is a little ridge known as the crista vestibuli. All these structures on the antero-internal wall of the conical vestibule will be best seen in the front piece of the section on the left side, Avhich has been made through the long axis of the vestibule. From the highest point of the roof of the vestibule opens the ampullated extremity of the superior semicircular canal, and just behind it is the ampulla of the external semicircular canal. Both these openings are a little above and behind the fovea hemieliptica, where the utricle lies. One more opening must be looked for in the fovea hemi- eliptica; it is a small but distinct foramen situated just in front of the common opening of the superior and posterior semicircular canals at the apex of the vestibule, and is the vestibular opening of the aqueductus vestibuli, which lodges the saccus endolymphaticus, and of which the cranial open- ing is seen on the posterior surface of the petrous bone below and external to the internal auditory meatus. On the postero-external wall of the vestibule opens the non-ampuUated extremity of the external semicircular canal, while a little lower down on the floor is the ampullated ex- tremity of the posterior canal. The Semiciecular Canals [canales semicirculares] are three bony tunnels hollowed out in the very dense, ivory-like part of the temporal bone which lies between the elevation for the superior semicircular canal on the anterior surface of the petrous bone above and the jugular fossa below. Each of these tunnels contains a very delicate mem- branous canal [ductus semicircularis], Avhich is separated from the bone by the perilymph. It is possible, with great care, to chisel out these canals, as well as the vestibule and cochlea, and every anatomical museum has a specimen of