PRACTICAL ANATOMY 388 run obliquely downwards and forwards. Help in discrimi- nating betAveen the two parts is also often furnished by a long slender nerve which runs along the Hne of division. It is a branch to a few muscular fibres which have become delaminated from the deep surface of the crureus and are known as the subcrureus, which muscle will be seen later. In many cases the vastus internus and crureus will be found to be so united that no separation is possible—other than an artificial one. If the natural line of separation has been found, it will be seen that the vastus internus does not arise from the internal surface of the femur, but merely lies upon it; the crureus, on the other hand, arises from both the anterior and external surfaces of the bone. The vastus internus arises from the lower three-quarters of the spiral line, the inner lip of the linea aspera, and the tendon of the adductor magnus. It should be here noted that the fibres of the vastus internus reach lower down than do those of the vastus externus, and that some of them have a direct insertion into the inner border of the patella. This arrangement of vasti muscles explains the difference which is to be observed between the inner and outer side of the limb in this region in the living subject. From the lower borders of both vasti muscles a strong fibrous expansion is given to the cap- sule of the knee-joint, to which the names external and internal lateral patellar ligaments have been applied. The branch from the anterior crural nerve to the vastus internus should be carefully dissected. It will be seen to break up into a number of smaller branches which enter the internal surface of the muscle at various levels. One or other of the lower branches can be traced through the muscle to the knee-joint. The nerve and its branches are accompanied by the deep division of the anastomotica magna artery. The crureus muscle [vastus intermedins] arises from the anterior and external surfaces of the shaft of the femur in its upper two-thirds, and ends by forming the deep central por-