THE GLUTEAL REGION 349 The great sacro-sciatic foramen will be seen to be divided into an upper and lower part by thepyriformis muscle, which, arising inside the pelvis from the front of the sacrum, passes through the foramen and crosses the buttock in an outward and slightly downward direction, to be inserted mto the upper border of the great trochanter, where it is in close relation to the insertion of the obturator internus. At the upper border of the pyriformis, the gluteal artery [a. gluttea superior] will be found coming into the buttock through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The branches of its superficial division have been already met entering the deep surface of the gluteus maximus. The deep division will be seen passing outwards deep to the gluteus medius; with it lies the superior gluteal nerve. They should at present be merely recognised, and no attempt made to follow them to their destination (see Fig. 155). At the lower border of the pyrifoi'mis two arteries and six nerves appear. Running almost vertically down between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter are the sciatic artery and the small sciatic nerve, the great sciatic nerve, and the nerve to the quadratus femoris. Running backwards to enter the deep surface of the gluteus maximus is the inferior gluteal nerve, while running a curved course round the ischial spine are the nerve to the obturator internus, the internal pudic vessels, and pudic nerve. Begin by cleaning up the inferior gluteal nerve, which has been met already and divided in reflecting the gluteus maximus. With some of its lower branches will be found branches of the sciatic artery, which should be followed to the main trunk appearing at the lower border of the pyriformis. The next structure to be identified is the small sciatic nerve [n. femoris posterior], the most superficial of the three nerves which pass vertically down into the thigh. In cleaning this nerve care should be taken to save a large branch which passes almost directly inwards about an inch below the tuber ischii and round the tendons of the ham-