PRACTICAL ANATOMY 176 pression if they lay between the muscle and the nerve. In the greater number of cases, however, the spinal accessory nerve lies on a level with or below the transverse process of the atlas (see Fig. 86). Very often, too, the nerve passes deep to the internal jugular vein instead of superficial, and more rarely may he deep to the sterno-mastoid instead of piercing that muscle, but in any case there is always more of the sterno-mastoid superficial to the nerve than there is deep to it. Now look for the Ascending pharyngeal artery [A. pharyngea ascendens] rising from the deep surface of the external carotid, usually near its beginning. At first it lies between the external and internal carotids, but, as it ascends, passes in front of the latter vessel to reach the wall of the pharynx, which is here formed by the superior con- strictor muscle (see Fig. 87). It is a slender artery l5dng close to the prevertebral muscles (rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli). As it runs upwards it gives off branches to the pharynx, some of which join in the tonsillar anastomosis as Avell as to the prevertebral muscles, and it ends at the base of the skull by giving off posterior meningeal branches which pass through the jugular and sometimes the anterior condylar foramina. Notice that it passes deep to the stylo-glossus and st^do- pharyngeus muscles and to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Internal Carotid Artery [A. carotis interna].— Just after the bifurcation of the common carotid the internal carotid often bulges outwards a little, so that at first it may be really more superficial than the external carotid, though it is always behind the latter vessel. It very soon, however, occupies a deeper plane and runs up on the outer side of the pharyngeal wall to reach the carotid canal, which, as has been noticed, is directly in front of the jugular foramen. Near the angle of the jaw the internal carotid hes about a quarter of an inch outside and behind the tonsil, and although it is not really so near that gland as is the facial