THE CERVICAL FASCIA 91 Glanchdar and other Structures.—Thyroid and Para- thyroid Glands. The Cervical Fascia has ah-eady been referred to, and will have to be again. It is extremely difficult for the student to get a fair idea of it from his dissection, and so he visualises it from the diagrams which his text-books provide. As long as he clearly understands that these are much more precise and definite than any- thing he is likely to find in nature, they may be a help. If he does not understand this, they are misleading. A clean fresh section across the neck shows that all the inter- stices between the various structures are filled with loose cellular tissue. When these structures are separated by traction or by the knife, the cellular tissue collapses into sheets where no sheets had been before. It is, for example, impossible to demonstrate without artificial manipulation a definite carotid sheath in the shape of a fibrous tube. The vessels are just packed in by cellular tissue, which will collapse into a tube on dissection, and, although the artery has just as much or just as little of a cellular sheath as any other artery of its own size, the internal jugular vein and vagus nerve have no special sheath at all unless it is artificially made. In describing the cervical fascia, it is usual to speak of the ensheathing layer splitting to enclose the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, and of two transverse septa passing vertically across the neck. Of these the anterior or j)retracheal septxbon is said to pass between the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles in front and the trachea behind, while the posterior or pre- vertebral septum is said to pass behind the oesophagus. Laterally, deep to the sterno-mastoid, these three parts, the ensheathing, the pretracheal, and the prevertebral, are described as uniting, and where they do so they all help in forming the so-called carotid sheath, a vertical tube enclos- ing the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus nerve.