THE BRAIN 305 outer (trigonum hypoglossi and trigonum acustici) have their apices downwards, while the intermediate trigonum vagi has its apex (inferior fovea) upwards. It will be reahsed that the floor of the fourth ventricle is an important region functionally, since most of the cranial nerves from the sixth to the twelfth take their origin, in part at least, deep to it. On the side of the cerebellum still attached to the medulla the three cerebellar peduncles may be followed into the in- terior of the cerebellum. It will then be noticed that the inferior (restiform body) becomes the middle of the three and bends very sharply back, the original middle peduncle (pons) becomes the external, while the superior has the innermost position, and enters the corpus dentatum (see Fig. 134). Be- . tween the superior and middle cerebellar peduncles the lateral fillet [lemniscus] is seen running up into the crus cerebri. Both it and the deeper medial fillet are important sensory paths from the opposite side of the cord (see Figs. 134 and 135). The Medial Surface of the Cerebrum.—Separate the two cerebral hemispheres by a median vertical incision. To do this satisfactorily it is best to have the base of the brain upward and to use as long a knife as is available. As soon as the corpus callosum is divided, lift up the knife lest some of the convolutions be sliced off. As soon as this is done, examine the corpus callosum, and notice that there is more of the brain behind than in front of it (see Fig. 136). The anterior part, which is bent upon itself, is the genu, and this ends below in a point—the rostrum. Behind is the splenium, while the intermediate part is the body [truncus] and this, if the brain has been properly hardened, is dis- tinctly convex upward. ^ Below the middle third of the corpus callosum is the formx, but as this structure is traced forward it arches downwards and forwards and then downwards and back- wards.jmtil it is lost in the lower part of the brain point- ■ ' u