PRACTICAL ANATOMY 420 and 3rd and 4th toes. On reviewing this nerve it will be noticed that it suppUes tliree and a half toes, and, if we may regard the one lumbrical as half a muscle, three and a half muscles, namely, the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis, the flexor brevis digitorum, and the innermost lumbrical. Now follow the external plantar nerve [n. plantaris lateralis] Avhich runs obliquely across the sole of the foot towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, lying deep to the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum and super- ficial to the accessorius and long flexor tendons. Near its beginning look for twigs to the abductor minimi digiti and accessorius, and later on, when the interval between the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti is reached at the level of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, the nerve will be found to divide into superficial and deep branches. Only the former can be followed now, since the deep branch dips down among the muscles. Be careful in cleaning this superficial branch, because it often gives ofi' twigs to three muscles which are very closely massed together—the flexor brevis minimi digiti, the third plantar, and fourth dorsal interossei. After this the nerve supplies the fourth digital cleft and the outer side of the Uttle toe (see Fig. 179). The internal 'plantar artery [a. plantaris medialis] begins at the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, which will be found midway between the internal malleolus and the tuberosity of the calcaneum. It is a rather small artery which runs along, the inner side of the foot, accompanying the internal plantar nerve. As it approaches the big toe it will usually be found communicating with the princeps hallucis branch of the dorsalis pedis, which perforates the first interosseous space. The external plantar artery [a. plantaris lateralis] at first lies below the internal on the inner side of the calcancuui. Trace it obliquely across the sole between the first and second layers of plantar muscles accompanying the external plantar nerve nearly to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal