INTRACRANIAL REGION 73 knife being turned to the nerve. As it runs forwards it is crossed externally by the lacrimal and frontal branches of the fifth. Snipping off the anterior chnoid process on one side makes the dissection of these nerves more easy, but it must be done very carefully. The third nerve [N. oculomotorius] lies internal to the fourth, and enters the cavernous sinus through its roof; thence it may be traced into the outer wall, where it lies internal to both the fourth and fifth nerves and divides into an upper and a lower branch. The sixth nerve [N. abducens] has been seen leaving the subdural space three-quarters of an inch below the posterior clinoid process; it should be exposed in the way advised for the fourth nerve, and, in doing so, it will be seen to lie with the inferior petrosal sinus in a little notch at the side of the base of the dorsum selljB. After this it runs alono- the floor of the cavernous sinus on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, which is also lying here. It passes at last through the sphenoidal fissure below the other nerves. Students often find it difficult to remember the way in which these nerves cross one another in the outer wall of the smus; it should therefore be noticed carefully that the sixth nerve is always the lowest, and that the third, fourth, and fifth always keep their numerical order from within outwards, though they only have it from above downwards in the posterior part of the sinus. The Cavernous Sinus [S. cavernosus] is about an inch long, and starts at the sphenoidal fissure by receiving most of the veins from the orbit. It ends posteriorly above the apex of the petrous bone, where it is drained by the superior and mferior petrosal sinuses, but in its course it receives many veins from the front of the base of the brain, and in particular the Superficial Sylvian Vein. It is formed bv a splitting of the dura mater and is lined by endothelial tissue. It should be slit open from above on the other side to that in which the nerves have just been dissected, and then