372 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the thigh in contact with the genitaha. In the female it suppUes the labium majus. The crural branch of the Genito-crv/ral Nerve [N. genito- femoralis] is to be found immediately external to the femoral artery, which latter vessel can be readily felt by pressure with the finger at a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis. Having identified the artery, make a vertical incision in the superficial fascia two inches in length along the course of the artery, beginning at Poupart's ligament. Tease the superficial fascia in the line of the incision, and keep a sharp look out for fine nerve fila- ments, which, when found, will lead to the main trunk lying on the outer side of the femoral artery (Fig. 161). The iliac branch of the Eio-hypogastric nerve frequently supplies a small area of skin on the front of the thigh, a little below the anterior superior iliac spine. The superficial fascia in this region should be therefore examined for a few fine twigs from this source. The lower two-thirds of the front of the thigh are supphed by the Internal, Middle, and External Cutaneous Nerves, which are joined in the region of the patella by the patellar branch of the long saphenous nerve. The main branch, or anterior division of the Internal Cutaneous Ne'n)e [rami cutanei anteriores nervi femoralis], in this region will be found piercing the deep fascia at the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, at the inner border of the sartorius muscle. In the superficial fascia above this point, however, a few small additional twigs from this nerve may be found if careful search is made. The posterior division of the External Cutaneous Nerve [n. cutaneus femoris laterahs] has already been sought in the dissection of the buttock. The anterior division pierces the deep fascia about four inches below the anterior superior iliac spine. The Middle Cutaneous Nerve is, as a rule, repre- sented by two well-marked branches, which descend verti- cally an inch or so apart, close to the median axis of the