PRACTICAL ANATOMY 250 to be inwards and forwards, though its whole length cannot be seen, because its floor rises for some distance and then sinks. Moreover, although the forward and inward direction is maintained in the greater part of its course, it takes a slight curve backwards and inwards about its middle. If in the living subject the pinna be pulled upwards and backwards, the tube is straightened out, and then with an aural speculum and mirror the outer surface of the tympanic membrane, as well as the whole length of the canal, may be examined. In the dead body, however, it may be studied more completely by splitting it longitudinally. Since the outer part of the meatus is fibro-cartilaginous, a vertical incision should first be made along its middle until the knife is stopped by the bone; then locaHse the internal auditory meatus and make a vertical saw-cut from the middle of the external to the middle of the internal auditory meatus. A fine saw should be used; indeed, the writer generally uses a fret-saw on account of the small amount of damage it does to the soft parts. The bone should be held upside down while it is being cut, and the line should pass just behind the carotid canal and in front of the internal jugular vein. In this way, by watching the saw carefully to see that it goes through the middle of each meatus, a very valuable section will be made. It is a mistake to saw off the squamous part of the temporal before making the section, as this acts as a valu- able guide in putting the parts into their proper positions afterwards. Now look at the external auditory meatus and notice that it is about an inch long, two-thirds bony and one-third cartilaginous. Its floor is rather longer than its roof, owing to the obliquity of the tympanic membrane, and the whole canal is lined with skin, which in the outer part has hairs growing from it, while large brownish ceruminous glands secrete the wax with which the passage is often blocked. _ Supposing that this section has been made on the right