THE BRAIN 297 and prolonged round the margin of the cerebellum just above the great horizontal fissure. (A.S.L. Fig. 131.) Ventral to (below) the middle cerebellar peduncle is the flocculus, a small triangular lobule, very sharply defined from the rest of the cerebellum and lying external to and behind the superficial origin of the seventh and eighth nerves. Behind the flocculus is the amygdala or tonsil. This is largely concealed by the medulla at present, but when the latter is lifted up a little and the parts looked at from behind, the likeness to the tonsils in the throat is very striking. The rest of the inferior surface of the cerebellum is divided into several lobules, which are of no great clinical or morphological importance. Their details, if needed, will be found in Fig. 131. The Upper Surface of the Cerebellum.—Now turn the cerebellum over and look at it from above. It consists of a median worm-like elevation, running antero-posteriorly, with a lateral lobe on each side. The elevation is known as the superior vermis, but its anterior part is hidden by the corpora quadrigemina, and, in order to see it, the best plan is to bisect the crura cerebri, pons, and medulla, keeping carefully to the mid line; then remove one-half of these by cutting through the superior, middle, and inferior cerebellar peduncles, where they are entering the cerebellum laterally. If this is carefully done, the piece removed can be easily replaced. Look at the medial cut surface of the crura and identify the aqueduct of Sylvius, which should have been laid open in its whole length if the mid line has been carefully kept; the corpora quadrigemina lie dorsal to it (see Fig. 132). When the lower limit of the corpora quadrigemina is reached, the aqueduct opens into the Fourth Ventricle, and the upper part of this is seen to be roofed over by an awning of white matter stretching from the lower edge of the corpora quadrigemina to the cerebellum, which it reaches between the anterior ends of the superior and inferior