217 THE EYE deal flatter than the posterior. It is about J inch in diameter, a measurement of importance in cataract operations, since a slit through which it can pass out has to be made in the limbus or sclero-corneal junction. The vitreous humour tills the cavity of the eyeball behind the lens; it is of the consistence of a very thin jelly, and is enclosed by a delicate capsule called the hyaloid membrane. Anteriorly this membrane splits into two layers, the anterior of which passes in front of the lens and blends with its capsule. It is closely pressed against the ciliary processes and firmly fixed to them in passing. It is known as the suspensory ligament of the lens, and, when the ciliary processes are drawn forwards, will relax and allow the front of the lens to become more convex through its own elasticity. The posterior layer of the splitting continues to enclose the vitreous, and lies in close contact with the back of the lens. Between the two layers of the split membrane there is a space surrounding the margin of the lens known as the canal of Petit [spatia zonulariaj. Running right through the vitreous humour, from the entrance of the optic nerve to the middle of the back of the lens, is the hyaloid canal. In the foetus this canal transmitted a branch from the retinal artery to the back of the lens. In the foetus, too, the lens was connected to the iris and ;:eceived blood vessels from it. Hemnants of this are sometimes found in the pupil after biith as " persistent capsulo-pupillary membrane." Now take the posterior half of the eyeball which was divided transversely, and scoop out the vitreous humour as gently and carefully as possible. It will be seen to retain its shape, owing to the hyaloid membrane and to a minute and very dehcate network m its interior, if it is received into a vessel of water. On examining the retina, preferably with a magnifying lens, the optic disc [papilla nervi optici] will be seen opposite the point where the optic nerve enters (3 mm. to the inner or nasal side of the posterior pole of the eye). It is a circular disc only 1-5 mm. across, and in