THE BRAIN 281 the frontal operculum, between the anterior and ascending limbs, the fronto-parietal operculum, between the ascending and posterior horizontal limbs, while the temporal operculum is formed by the temporal lobe (see Fig. 124). The Central Fissure or Fissure of Rolando [sulcus centralis] is of great clinical and physiological importance, because the motor centres are grouped in front of it. It starts, as far as the outer convex surface of the brain is con- cerned, at the very top about mid-way between the anterior (frontal) and posterior (occipital) poles of the brain, and runs downwards and forAvards at an angle of about 72°, until it nearly reaches the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, an inch behind the Sylvian point. It ends, therefore, in the back part of the fronto-parietal operculum. It has several curves, two of which (the superior and inferior genua) are specially marked. The superior genu is convex backwards, and has the arm centre just in front of it, Avhile the inferior genu is convex forwards. If the lips of the fissure are pulled apart, several deep interlocking gyri [g. profundi] are seen at the bottom of it. The next fissure to identify is the External Parieto- occipital, which corresponds very closely to the lambda on the surface of the skull (see p. 80). It only runs down for about half an inch from the upper border of the brain. A useful method of finding it is to continue the general direc- tion of the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure backwards with a piece of string or ruler, neglecting the upturned hinder end of the limb ; but a still better way, when the medial surface of the brain can be seen, is to look for its continuity with the well-marked internal parieto-occipital fissure (see Fig. 125). When these fissures have been identified the lobes on the outer surface of the brain should be determined. The Frontal Lobe is that part which lies above the level of the Sylvian fissure and in front of the central fissure (Fig. 125).