PRACTICAL ANATOMY 134 thickened external lateral ligament which runs do^m^vards and backwards from the tubercle at the anterior root of the zygoma to the outer and back part of the neck of the condyle. When the condyle is retracted this is tight, but its obliquity allows the jaw to move forwards and downwards below the eminentia articularis. The anterior part of the capsule can hardly be seen, because the tendon of the ex- ternal pterygoid blends with it; it is horizontal and very thin, and is attached in front of the eminentia articularis. The posterior ligament is also very thin, and is attached just in front of the Glaserian fissure (a dry skull should be at hand to verify these points). Posteriorly this ligament is in contact with the glenoid lobe of the parotid gland, when there is such a lobe, and with the auriculo-temporal nerve. Now divide the capsule as close to the skull as possible, in order to get above the interarticular meniscus [discus arti- cularis] or hbro-cartilage, which keeps the condyle from actually touching the glenoid fossa. This part of the dissection requires very great care in order to avoid (1) damaging the meniscus, and (2) cutting the auriculo- temporal nerve, the latter being an accident which, in the writer's experience, happens more often than not. When the outer part of the capsule has been cut the condyle must be pulled downwards as forcibly as possible, and the inner part divided in the most careful manner with the very point of the knife. When this is done, the condyle can be drawn forward, with the meniscus and external pterygoid attached, and disengaged from the internal maxillary artery. Now separate the meniscus from the condyle and, in doing so, notice that it is attached to the capsule all round its margins, so that there is one synovial cavity above and another below it, and that these are perfectly distinct. The upper one is by far the more roomy, and allows the meniscus and condyle to glide forwards and backwards on the glenoid fossa and eminentia articularis, while the smaller, lower one is for the condyle to move like a hinge on the meniscus. lu