119 THE FACE in the same line which marked out the infraorbital nerve and about midway between the alveolar margin and the lower margin of the jaw. It supplies the skin of the lower lip and chin. To expose it cut through the depressor anguli oris muscle. As this is the last nerve to be looked for on the face and scalp it will be well to review their arrangement. Starting from the forehead and working backwards along the side of the scalp or downwards on the face, the first, second, and third divisions of the fifth are met with in their regular order. The skin in front of and behind the ear, as well as that of a good deal of the ear itself, is supplied by the anterior primary division of the second and third cervical nerves, while behind that are. the posterior primary divisions of the first three cervicals. The facial with its posterior auricular branch is entirely motor. The Buccinator, though on a deeper plane than the other facial muscles, is quite evident. It rises from the alveolar margins of both upper and lower jaws, external to the molar teeth and more posteriorly from the pterygo-mandibular ligament (see Fig. 89). Anteriorly, its fibres form a large part of the orbicularis oris. Its motor nerve is derived from the facial (see p. 112), showing that it is really one of the muscles of expression and not of mastication. In cleaning the muscle a circumscribed mass of fat will be drawn out from under cover of the anterior border of the masseter. This mass is very definite in the child and is known as the "sucking- pad." The buccinator is covered by some cellular tissue known as the anterior part of the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, and embedded in this the seed-like molar glands are found.' They are mucous glands which open into the mouth. The Orbicularis Oris, which surrounds the mouth, is made up of contributions from several facial muscles' as well as of some fibres wliich strictly belong to itself. These latter rise from the four incisor fossre, two in the upper and two m the lower jaw (see Fig. 56, S.I. and I.I.). In