PRACTICAL ANATOMY 212 downwards and forwards r^ither suddenly to open on to the face. The roof of the canal should be chiselled away, so as to expose the whole intraorbital course of the nerve, but the nerve itself should not be interfered with at present. A small infraorbital branch of the internal maxillary artery accompanies the nerve. The temporo-malar nerve [N. zygomaticus] is a branch of the second division of the fifth before the latter enters the orbit; it should be looked for in the lower and outer angle of this cavity, gradually creeping up as it runs forward to enter the temporo-malar canal in the malar bone. While still within the orbit, it gives a communicating branch to the lacrimal nerve. On the left side the dissection from in front should be c; • i' (1 as far back as possible. It is very important to get ;i .I'll idea of the relative positions of structures from ihis • r V ( w. because this is how they have to be approached The tendons of all four recti, the superior and inferior bi.quu muscles, the lacrimal gland and terminal parts of he siipraoibital, supratrochlear and iufratrochlear nerves, as ..ell ..s of the ophthalmic artery, may be reached. Divide each tendon close to its ocular attachment and try to draw it baci< through the opening in the roof; the resistance will give some idea of the value of the check ligaments. In cutting the tendons the capsule of Tenon is, of course, opened; it should now be reflected back with a probe or seeker until the optic nerve is reached. Now press down with the probe on the lower part of the capsule, and notice how strong it is and how well it is attached by areolar planes to the orbital wall on each side. This strengthening is some- times called the suspensory ligament of Lockwood, though as a definite structure it is often hard to demonstrate. The practical point, however, is clear enough that the eyeball will not drop even though the maxilla be removed, provided that the side-walls of the orbit are not cut away too high.