THE PTERYGOID REGION 131 mto the front of the neck of the condyle, and carefully clean j the surface of the muscle, looking out for the internal maxilr I lai^y artery and the long buccal nerve ; the latter is easily found by following it back from the surface of the buccinator, Avhere it has been exposed already. In addition to these structures there are numerous veins forming part of the I pterygoid plexus, which surrounds the external pterygoid 1 muscle, and is drained backwards by the internal maxillary vein, and forwards by the deep facial vein, which has been already found. The plexus is difficult to display, but is j important because it communicates freely with most of the deep veins of the head. Other very important structures which are often missed are two or three internal maxillary lymphatic nodes which i lie on the surface of the external pterygoid muscle and drain I the nose, pharynx, temporal and zygomatic fossae, orbit and j dura mater. The course of the internal maxillary artery [A. maxillaris interna] is sometimes deep to the external ptery- goid, though in rather more than half the cases it is superficial; it comes from the termination of the external carotid in the parotid gland, and is easily found deep to the neck of the condyle, especially if this be drawn out with a chain hook. As a rule, the artery runs a little upwards and then . downwards along the lower border of the external pterygoid, though in both cases its direction is forward as well. About I the middle of the lower border of the muscle it turns for- ; wards and upwards once more, and passes, either superficial I or deep to the external pterygoid, toward the spheno- tmaxdlary fossa. It will usually be noticed that the two ■most important branches of the artery come off at or close to these two bends, the middle meningeal [A. meningea medial bemg opposite the convexity upwards, and the inferior dental [A. alveolaris inferior] opposite the downward one. The I.artery is often arbitrarily' divided into three parts by the external pterygoid: the first before that muscle is reached