383 THE THIGH and giving off the small twig to the subscartorial plexus. To the outer side of the long saphenous nerve is another nerve of somewhat similar size—the nerve to the vastus internus muscle—into which it sinks on its internal aspect. Lastly, if these nerves with the underlying vessels be pulled outwards, thereby exposing the anterior surface of the adductor magnus muscle, a small nerve may be seen de- scending on that surface of the muscle and making for the inner aspect of the femoral vessels. It is the Geniculate branch of the Obturator nerve, already traced to its destina- tion in the dissection of the popliteal space. The nerves having been found, the dissector may proceed more boldly with regard to the other contents. Clean the superficial femoral artery within the limits of the space. Only one branch—the anastomotica magna—will, as a rule, be seen to spring from it; it quickly divides into a superficial and a deep division, the former associating itself with the long saphenous nerve, the latter with the nerve to the vastus internus. Behind the artery lies the superficial femoral vein, which receives an anastomotic tributary corresponding to the anastomotica magna artery. Now clean the walls of the canal, thereby exposing the fibres of the vastus internus on the outside, on the inside, the adductors longus and mag- nus, which blend closely below. The femoral vessels pass downwards and inwards, leaving the canal and entering the popliteal space through the opening in the adductor magnus. In this transit they may be accompanied by the geniculate branch of the obturator nerve, though this, in many cases, pierces the muscle at a higher level. The two regions of Scarpa's triangle and Hunter's canal having now been separately studied, the remaining band of fascia lata holding the parts in position may be cut through and the two spaces joined. By this procedure it will be possible to obtain an extensive view of the structures on the front of the thigh. Clean the whole of the anterior surface of the Adductor