THE EYE 219 The lens having been removed, the ciliary -bodies are seen from behind; they are about seventy in number, radially arranged, each one swelling anteriorly to a thickened, rounded base Avhich lies just behind the iris. The pigment of the retina which covers them makes them look very black. The term ciliary processes is often used as a synonym for ciliary bodies, but, clinically, by ciliary processes are understood a delicate fringe of vascular glomeruli which is present on the convex surface of each ciliary body. Next cut through the cornea close to the sclero-corneal junction three-quarters of the way round, and open it like a lid. Lining the back of the cornea is the posterior elastic membrane [lamina elastica posterior], which may be peeled away from the cut edge for a little, and is continued on to the front of the iris as a series of dehcate ridges with hollows between. This is the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, and the hollows are the spaces of Fontana [spatia anguli iridis]. It is here that the aqueous humour, secreted by the surface of the ciliary bodies, is believed to percolate into the adjacent canal of Schlemm. The iris can now be seen from the front and back, and it will be noticed that in the ox its pupil is a transverse slit, while in man it is circular. Behind, the iris has the black pigment of the pars iridica retinae, but seen from the front its colour may range from the dark brown of the ox or negro to the leaden blue of the child at birth, according to the amount of interstitial pigment of various shades Avhich is deposited in the stroma of the iris. When no such interstitial pigment is present the eye is blue, and on looking at living people's eyes it will be noticed that the interstitial pigment is always greater near the pupil than at the periphery of the iris. The iris contains circular (sphincter) and radiating (dilator) muscular fibres, though they are difficult to demon- strate macroscopically; the former are massed round the pupil and are supplied by the third n^rve, while the latter