425 THE FOOT fourth toes, though occasionally it may reach the fifth; it runs transversely across the sole to the outer side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the big toe, where it blends with the adductor obliquus and outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Its small nerve, from the deep division of the external plantar, should be looked for entering the muscle on its deep surface close to the posterior border. The peculiar relation of the nerves supplying the second and third lumbricals to this muscle has already been noticed. The flexoi- brevis minimi digiti rises from the plantar surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the adjacent sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. It is inserted into the outer side of the plantar surface of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. Its nerve from the external plantar has already been seen. When the muscles forming this third layer of the sole have been examined, they may be cut and their ends re- flected, in order that the deep vessels and nerves and the interosseous muscles may be studied. The deep branch of the externcd plantar nerve should be followed from the point at which it was left, close to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone (see p. 420); it now runs forwards and inwards with the artery, breaking up into numerous branches, which supply the plantar and dorsal interosseous muscles, with the exception very often of the third plantar and fourth dorsal. The nerves to these have already been noticed (see p. 420). In addition to these trace the whole course of the nerves given off to the three outer lumbricales. The deep plantar arch [arcus plantaris] is the last part of the external plantar artery, and should now be traced across the sole for the second time; it is deep to the adductor obliquus hallucis, and lying on the plantar side of (superficial to) the bases of the metatarsal bones and origins of the interosseous muscles. The arch is completed at the base of the first interosseous space by the end of the dorsalis pedis artery, which was