PRACTICAL ANATOMY 362 the joint, piercing the posterior ligament near its central point. The muscular branches supply the inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, soleus, and popliteus muscles; the branches to all except the last-named arise close together, and are easily traced to their destination. The branch to the popliteus, on the other hand, can only at present be traced to the lower border of that muscle round which it may be seen to wind. In addition to the two popliteal nerves, another nerve is usually to be found deep in the popliteal space; it is the geniculate branch of the obturator nerve. Look for it in the upper part of the space immediately to the inner side of the popliteal artery, the deeper of the two large vessels lying under cover of the internal popliteal nerve. The branch, if traced upwards, will be seen entering the space by piercing the fibres of the adductor magnus muscle, while, if traced downwards, it will be seen to pierce the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Now turn to the blood vessels, viz. the Popliteal artery and vein. The latter is the more superficial, and may be traced first. It will be seen to receive lateral tributaries, a small median vein from the knee-joint and the large ex- ternal saphenous vein already noted. Deep to the vein and in close contact with it throughout its course lies the popliteal artery, many branches of which have been met already in tracing the distribution of the nerves. The artery enters the space at its upper and inner part by passing through an opening in the adductor magnus muscle; it then inclines outwards to lie between the two condyles of the femur, from which situation it descends vertically, passmg under cover of the gastrocnemius and soleus. The artery gives off various muscular and cutaneous twigs, and in addi- tion certain articular branches which arc closely associated m their course with the three articular branches of the internal popliteal nerve and the upper and lower articular branches