8 fRACTlCAL ANATOMY upper thoracic spines. It is not, as a rule, continued into the neck, and is only imperfectly separated from the longissimus dorsi and the subjacent semispinalis. The Longissimus Dorsi is the part of the erector spinJB which is left after the ilio-costalis and spinahs divisions have been separated. Draw it inward and a series of insertions into the ribs between the tubercles and angles will be seen, while on drawing it outward a series of slips into the trans- verse processes of the thoracic vertebrae will be easily traced. This muscle, therefore, has an external and internal set of insertions. As soon as the three columns of the erector spinas have been localised, and before anything has been cut away, the posterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves should be traced. With the exception of the first cervical, the last two sacral and the coccygeal nerves, each posterior primary division divides into an external and an internal branch, and in the thoracic region the longissimus dorsi lies between these branches, so that the outer ones must be sought between the outer and middle columns of the erector spinse, and the inner branches between the middle and inner columns. In the upper six thoracic nerves the internal branch becomes cutaneous, while in the lower six it is the external, though the transition is seldom a very sharp one, since in the mid-thoracic region it is often found that both internal and external branches supply the skin. It is for this reason that the dissectors of the upper ex- tremity were asked to leave intact the second and eighth thoracic posterior cutaneous branches. In tracing the in- ternal branch of the second thoracic nerve (see Fig. 4), iiotice that it does not pass quite close to the longissimus dorsi and its upward continuations, the complexus and transversalis sheet, because there are some rather long oblique muscular slips which rise from the transverse processes and are m- serted into spinous processes some distance higher up. These