286 PRACTICAL ANATOMY eminence of the skull and corresponds to the point of greatest convexity of a well-hardened brain. Behind and a little above the supra-marginal is the angular gyrus, the shape of which is usually described by its name. This arches over the hinder end of the upper temporal sulcus to be presently described, while at the very back of the infra-parietal lobule another convolution arches over the hind end of the lower temporal sulcus and is kno-\vn as the poat-parietal gyrus. The identification of these two last gyri is in some brains extremely difficult, and the greater experience of a demon- strator is often needed. The surface of the occipital lohe is very variable, but a convolution can usually be seen passing below the short external parieto-occipital fissure connecting the supra-parietal lobule with the upper part of the occipital lobe; it is concave upwards and is called the arcus parieto- occipitalis. It is bounded below by the posterior part of the intra-parietal sulcus, and more posteriorly by the transverse occipital sulcus, which the intra-parietal so often joins. This transverse occipital sulcus begins at the upper border of the cerebrum, a Httle behind the external parieto-occipital fissure, and generally runs forwards at first and then downwards and forwards. Below it there is often another fairly well- defined sulcus known as the lateral occipital, so that in a typical brain there are, including the arcus parieto-occipitalis, three occipital gyri or groups of gyri to be made out. A small region close to the occipital pole is of special import- ance, since the visual area encroaches on the convex outer surface here. The surface of the temporal lohe has two sulci, superior and inferior, of which the superior is also called the parallel sulcus, from its relation to the Sylvian fissure, while the inferior often has breaks in its continuity. These two sulci separate three horizontal temporal gyri, superior, middle, and inferior. The Superior Temporal Gyrus is of import- ance, because its middle third contains the auditory centre.