POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR COMPARTMENT 403 Achillis [t. calcaneus], which is inserted into the back of the OS calcis. If the origin of the two bellies be observed, it will be seen that at the lateral border of each a strong- rounded tendinous part is present, the outer of which takes origin from a distinct pit on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, Avhile the inner belly arises from the popliteal surface of the femur between the condyle and the adductor tubercle, and moreover reaches to a lower . level in the calf. The branches from the internal popliteal nerve to these muscular bellies must next be identified. They enter the deep surface near the origin of the muscle. Immediately to the inner side of the outer belly of the gastrocnemius a small fusiform muscular belly may be seen arising from the external condyle above the origin of the outer belly and continued into a long nar,row tendon. This muscle is the plantaris. It is supplied by a twig from the internal popliteal nerve. In many cases no trace of the muscle is to be found. The handle of the scalpel should now be passed deep to the muscular belHes of the gastrocnemius in order to separate them from underlying structures, after which the muscle should be divided transversely and turned upwards and downwards. A view will now be obtained of the tendon of the plantaris if it be present. It passes obliquely downwards and inwards from its origin. Deep to the gastrocnemius and plantaris lies the popHteus and the large muscular mass of the soleus, the upper border of which wdl be seen to form a more or less free tendmous arch which passes from tibia to fibula, bridging over the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The popliteus is a triangular muscle the apex of which forms the tendon of origin, and, since this is intra-articular It will be seen when the knee is dissected. The wider fleshy part IS mserted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique line. The peculiarity of its nerve, which hooks round Its lower border, has been noticed already, and the