381 THE THIGH off the deep femoral as a branch. In deference to the needs of surgeons, we have adhered to the former and older de- scription, but the latter and more modern is valuable in emphasising the fact that the superficial femoral artery directly continues the line of the common femoral. Two or three Deep Inguinal Lymph Nodes lie to the inner side of the femoral vein, just below Poupart's ligament. In fact, one of them can occasionally be seen lying in the loose areolar tissue deep to Poupart's ligament, in the crural canal [canalis femoralis]. The latter term is applied to a small space under the ligament and immediately to the inner side of the femoral vein. The index finger can be readily passed up into it, as it is only occupied by loose areolar tissue and the above-mentioned deep inguinal gland. The opening is of considerable practical importance, for through it a femoral hernia makes its way out of the abdominal cavity (see Fig. 162). Its boundaries, therefore, should be carefully noted. They are, in front, Poupart's hgament; behind, the pectineus covered by a thick fascia continuous with the portion of fascia lata on the inner side of the saphenous opening; internally, the sharp edge of Gimhernat's ligament [lig. lacunarej; externally, the femoral vein. In operations for the return of the hernia into the abdominal cavity it becomes necessary to enlarge this opening, and the student should observe that this is most readily done by cutting inward through Gimhernat's ligament, thereby releasing Potipan's ligament and allowing the opening to be enlarged in both an internal and anterior direction. On no account should the surgeon cut outwards, for if he does he must inevitably cut into the femoral vein. Scarpa's triangle may now be left, although the parts underlying its floor have still to be examined. Note at this stage that the floor is not flat, but that the internal part and to a less extent the external, both slope backwards to meet at an angle which is occupied by the common femoral vessels (see Fig. 164).