THE THIGH 387 The Uedus FemoHs is the most superficial portion lying be- tween the two vasti and hiding Irom view the crureus. It is the only portion which arises from the innominate bone, and it therefore acts as a flexor of the hip-joint as well as an extensor of the knee. The rectus arises by two heads—the straight head from the anterior inferior iliac spine, the reflected head from the dorsum ilii above the acetabulum, where, as already noticed, its fibres are closely incorporated with the capsular fibres of the hip-joint. Its nerve comes from the deep division of the anterior crural, and from it a twig to the front of the hip-joint may possibly be traced. The muscle passes downwards to form the superficial part of the central portion of the quadriceps extensor insertion. The muscular mass to the outer and inner side of the rectus is formed of the vastus externus [v. lateralis] and vastus internus [v. medialis] muscles. Free the rectus femoris from the underlying muscular substance and, at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh, cut it through, and turn the lower part down. The Vastus Externus portion of the muscle should be now examined; at its upper origin it is distinct from the neighbouring parts of the common muscular mass, arising from the upper part of the spiral line of the femur, the base of the great trochanter, the gluteal ridge in front of the gluteus maximus, and a part of the linea aspera. The descending branch of the external circumflex artery, accompanied by the nerve to the vastus externus, forms a good guide to the line of separation between that muscle and the crureus. The separation between the vastus internus and crureus [vastus intermedius] is nowhere distinct, but an attempt should be made to find the line of union. It lies along the rounded border of the femur, between the anterior and internal sur- faces. If the common muscular mass is carefully cleaned, it is in many cases possible to distinguish a difference in the direction of the fibres along the line, the fibres of the crureus portion running vertically, while those of the vastus internus