THE FACE 111 Nerve Ma.7.N. Malar Branch of the Facial Nerve. T.I.N. Temporal Branch of the Facial Nerve, S.T.A. Superficial Temporal Artery. A.T.N. Auriculo-teniporal Nerve. 8.P. Socia parotichs. some distance forward on to the side of the face, upward to the zygoma and downward as far as the angle of the jaw. The gland is covered by a layer of cellular tissue continuous with the deep fascia of the neck. Now clean the surface of the gland very carefully, especially as its anterior limits are reached, and look for Stensen's duct and branches of the facial nerve coming out of it (see Fig. 53). The Facial or Seventh Cranial Nerve emerges in six sets of branches; the upper three form the temporo-facial division, and are named from above downwards temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The lower three form the cervico- facial division, and are the buccal, mandibular, and cervical. The temporal twigs [rami temporales] have already been found on the scalp, and should be traced back to the gland. The malar branches [rami zygomatici superiores] should be looked for in a hne drawn from the lower part of the auditory meatus to the outer angle of the eye. They are small, and supply the outer fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. The infraorbital branches [rami zygomatici inferiores] are usually two, and are much larger than the last; they run forwards to the muscles lying between the eye and the mouth, and form quite a plexus with the infraorbital branch of the fifth, though this should be looked for later, as it is deep to certain of the muscles. In cleaning these nerves Stensen''s duct [d. parotideus] will be sure to come into view; it is the duct' of the parotid, and is larger than any of the nerves; it runs forward in a line drawn from the lower part of the auditory meatus to midway between the nose and the angle of the mouth, and lies about half an inch below the zygoma. Only about the middle third of this line corresponds to the duct, because, posteriorly, it is embedded in the gland, while at the junction of the middle and anterior thirds of the line it turns sharply inwards and pierces the buccinator muscle to open iuto the