PRACTICAL ANATOMY 426 traced to this spot when the dorsum of the foot was dis- sected. To those who have dissected the upper extremity the likeness of this arrangement to that of the radial and deep palmar arch will be quite clear. As it runs across the sole a iiilantar interosseous branch [a. digitalis plantaris] to each space should be looked for. These divide, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, for the neighbouring sides of two toes, and just before this division small communications with the corresponding dorsal inter- osseous arteries may be found if the injection is good. These are the anterior perforating arteries. Posterior perforating arteries should also be sought at the back part of each interosseous space connecting the plantar arch with the dorsal interosseous arteries passing between the two heads of each dorsal interosseous muscle. In the first space, of course, the posterior perforating artery is the dorsalis pedis, here coming through to complete the plantar arch. Now isolate the three plantar interosseous muscles by pushing a blowpipe or rod deep to them. Remember that the scheme of the interossei of the foot is this—the plantar adduct to the mid line of the second toe (index), and, as the big toe has two special adductors of its own, there is no need for a plantar interosseous to draAV it towards the second toe. The three muscles, therefore, will be found in the three outer interosseous spaces, each rising from the tibial surface of the shaft of the metatarsal bone bounding the outer side of the space—the first from the third metatarsal, the second from the fourth, and the third from the fifth. Trace then- insertions into the inner (tibial) side of the bases of the proximal phalanges corresponding to the metatarsals from which they arise. In order to do this satisfactorily, it will be necessary to divide the deep transverse metatarsal ligament [lig. capitulorum], which runs across the foot, joining the plantar hgaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joints to one another (see Fig. 180).