PRACTICAL ANATOMY 366 their whole course with the Great Sciatic Nerve [n. ischia- dicus], which suppHes them. This nerve should be noted passing down from the buttock, lying michvay between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, first to the outer side and then deep to the biceps muscle. As a rule, half-way down the thigh it divides into the internal and external popliteal nerves; before this, however, it has given off the branches of supply to the two heads of the biceps, to the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and to that portion of the adductor magnus muscle which arises from the tuber ischii. The nerves will be found in the process of cleaning the muscles, and as a rule two nerves will be seen to enter the semi-tendinosus, one above and one below the tendinous intersection. The origin of the hamstring muscles has already been seen and noted in the dissection of the buttock, but their exact attachment and relationships to each other may be now more clearly determined. On cleaning the tendons of origin it will be seen that the long head of the hicej^s and the semi-tendinosus have a common tendon, which is attached to the inner portion of the posterior surface of the tuber ischii, while the semi-memhranosus arises from the outer portion of that surface. After a course of one or two inches the biceps and semi-tendinosus separate, the one passing outwards, the other inwards. The tendon of the semi-membranosus passes inwards under cover of the common tendon—it has the characteristic shape of a hollow-ground razor with its edge inward, the semi-tendinosus lying in the hollow. The mus- cular bellies of the hamstring muscles should now be cleaned down to their tendons of insertion. In this procedure a distinct tendinous intersection will be observed in the sub- stance of the semi-tendinosus muscle. The long head of the biceps will be seen to be joined on its inner side by the short head, which, arising from the external supra-condylar ridge on the femur, passes downwards and outwards to join the tendon of insertion. When these muscles have been cleaned