THE FOOT 411 peroneal compartment—the musculo-cutaneous nerve. As it passes downwards it also inclines somewhat inwards, supplying the inner side of the big toe and the adjacent sides of the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th toes. Lastly, in the interval between the 1st and 2nd metatarsal bones, the terminal branch of the anterior tibial nerve will be found. It is distributed to the adiacent sides of the 1st and 2nd toes. In the dissection of these cutaneous structures the ten- dons of the extensor muscles of the leg will be exposed, and should be followed to the toes, their insertions being studied later. While these tendons are being examined will be a good opportunity to dissect the lower or Y-shaped part of the anterior annular ligament [lig. cruciatum cruris]. The stalk of the Y is attached to the front of the upper surface of the calcaneum, and forms a loop which binds the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius tendons down. To the distal end of the loop two stays are attached, which form the two limbs of the Y, the upper running to the internal malleolus, the lower to the inner part of the plantar fascia. The extensor proprius hallucis passes deep to both of these, but the tibialis anticus often splits the upper limb of the Y, and has part superficial and part deep to it (see Fig. 176). Deep to these tendons will be seen the muscular belly and tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum, which arises from the front part of the superior surface of the os calcis and from the outer extremity of the Y-shaped anterior annular ligament. From this origin the muscle passes for- wards and inwards, dividing into four tendons, which are traceable to the four inner toes. In cleaning this muscle its nerve of supply from the anterior tibial should be sought, and on it a gangliform enlargement may be seen. The full course of the anterior tibial nerve in the foot can now be displayed. The nerve lies immediately to the outer side of the dorsalis pedis artery, furnishing, io additioo tp the