318 PRACTICAL ANATOMY Some branches also turn over the upper margin of the brain to supply a narrow strip of the lateral surface (see Fig. 141). It should be particularly noticed that all these cortical branches, unlike the ganglionic, anastomose very freely with one another. The middle cerebral artery of each side runs outwards into the vallecula Sylvii. By pulling back the temporal pole the antero-lateral ganglionic branches will be seen going into holes in the lateral part of the anterior perforated space. One of the outermost of these is said to be larger than the rest, and is known as the " artery of cerebral hsemorrhage." Soon after this the middle cerebral artery divides into four branches, which are arranged fanwise between the gyri of the insula, and supply all the lateral (external) surface of the brain except the superior frontal convolution, the strip along the upper margin of the brain already accounted for by the anterior cerebral artery, the occipital lobe and a strip along the lower margin of the temporal lobe which the pos- terior cerebral supplies. Now follow the two vertebral arteries forward. In the dissection of the spinal cord (p. 24) these arteries were seen passing through the foramen magnum, having already pierced the dura mater and arachnoid. They now run obliquely forwards and upwards, lying at first on the outer side of the medulla and then in front of it, till at the lower margin of the pons they unite to form the basilar artery. In their course they pass between the origins of the hypo- glossal and first cervical nerves. Of their branches the posterior spinal and posterior meningeal have been noticed already (p. 24). The posterior inferior cerebellar is usually the next, as it is always the largest branch of the vertebral. Trace it outwards and backwards to the deep notch on the under surface of the cerebellum (vallecula cerebelli), where it Avill be seen to divide into an outer branch for the lateral lobe of the cerebellum, and an inner for the inferior vermis.