244 i?RACTICAL ANATOMY When two cartilage-covered bones are united by the fibrous tissue, as the centra are by the intervertebral disc, the resulting joint is called a symphysis or amphiarthrosis, but when a synovial cavity intervenes, as it does between the neuro-central lips and the body of the vertebra above, the joint is known as a diarthrosis. Now look at the separated articular processes between the third and fourth vertebrae, and notice how each is sur- rounded by a loose capsule lined on its inner surface by synovial membrane. These, because they have a synovial membrane, are classified as diarthrodial joints, and, because they only allow a gliding movement, belong to the gliding or arthrodial subdivision of the diarthroses. Between the laminae are the ligamenta suhflava, but as these have been cut away the dissector must recall the experience he gained of them in exposing the spinal cord (see p. 19). Remove the longus colh and recti capitis muscles from the front of the upper three cervical vertebrse, and notice that the anterior common ligament [hg. longitudinale an- terius] is continued up to the longus colli tubercle on the front of the atlas, and, after being firmly attached there, goes on to the under surface of the basilar process as the median part of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament [membrana atlanto-occipitahs anterior]. Now turn the specimen round and look at it from behind. The posterior arch of the atlas has been removed in tracing the spinal cord up to the foramen magnum, and, Avhile removing it, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament joining it to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum and pierced by the vertebral arteries was noticed (see p. 17). Follow up the posterior common ligament [Hg. longi- tudinale posterius] connecting the backs of the centra (see p. 32) to the back of the centrum of the axis, and notice how it is prolonged up to join the periosteum or cranial layer of the dura mater on the upper surface of the basilar process of