350 PRACTICAL ANATOMY string muscles arising therefrom ; the branch is called the in- ferior pudendal nerve [ramus perinealis nervi femoris pos- terioris]. Next clean the great sciatic nerve [n. ischiadicus], which is readily recognised by its size and by its lying immediately deep to the small sciatic nerve. Occasionally the great sciatic nerve is represented by two nerve trunks, the internal and external popliteal divisions; the former of which is the deeper and may be traced to the lower border of the pyriformis, while the latter, more super- ficial, can often be seen piercing the muscle. Even when the two divisions are not thus separated, it is quite easy, by opening its sheath, to show that the nerve is formed by the juxtaposition of two distinct nerve trunks. If now the great sciatic nerve, just as it enters the buttock, be pulled aside, the lower margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch will be exposed, and, lying upon it, there will be seen the nerve to the quad/ratus femoris muscle. Next feel for the ischial spine and the small sacro-sciatic ligament [lig. sacro-spino- sum] attached to its apex. Resting upon these structures, from the base of the spine inwards, are the nerve to the obtiirator internus, the internal pudic artery [a. pudenda interna], with a vein on either side, and the pudic nerve [n. pudendus], all of which should be picked up with the forceps and cleaned in that portion of their course which lies in the buttock. These various structures having been identified and care- fully dissected out, attention should next be directed to the underlying muscles. Begin by cleaning the pyrifm-mi^, taking great care not to damage the structures at its upper and lower borders. It will be found to pass from its origm in the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen mto the buttock to its insertion into the upper border of the great trochanter under cover of the gluteus medius. Above the pyriformis lies the large ghdeus medius, which arises not only from a large area on the underlying dorsum ilii between the superior and middle-curved Imes, but also