191 THE PHARYNX aspect. These three, structures care the Eustachian tube, the levator pahati, and the ascending pahxtine artery. The Levator palati [M. levator veH palatini] should be looked for just below the Eustachian tube and followed up to the apex of the petrous bone, where it rises. It also rises a httle from the floor of the tube, which it is supposed to open, since some people are able to blow up their Eustachian tubes during the act of swallowing. It can be followed right down to the soft palate, of which it forms the most superficial layer, as seen from above, except posteriorly, where the upper layer of the palato-pharyngeus conceals a little of it, and near the middle line, where the azygos uvulae lies. The ascending palatine artery is seen ramifying on the soft palate if the injection is good. The Tensor palati [M. tensor veli palatini] should be sought where it has turned round the hamular process. Here it is a rather broad aponeurotic sheet which can be followed into the soft palate, but this should only be done on one side, because the levator palati, azygos uvulce, and palato- pharyngeus are above it and must be reflected in order to see it. Trace the anterior fibres into the posterior edge of the palatine process of the palate bone, and the rest of the apo- neurosis to the median raphe. The origin and upper fleshy part of the tensor palati lie on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, the muscle rises from the scaphoid fossa and great wing of the sphenoid as far back as the spine, and is a plate com- pressed from side to side, with its posterior border running downwards and forwards. On one side it will be a useful exercise to remove the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and to pick up the nerve to the internal pterygoid, already exposed in the pterygoid dissection (p. 139). Perhaps the otic ganglion may be found close to it and a little way below the foramen ovale. AVith care it is some- times possible to trace a twig from the ganglion to the tensor