128 PRACTICAL ANATOMY Divide the lower attachments of the fascia, and turn it up to expose the greater part of the temporal muscle, but, in doing this, the middle temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery, which pierces the fascia just above the external auditory meatus, should be looked for and kept. Of course the various superficial structures already dissected must be turned aside, but if a sketch of them has been pre- viously made, they can readily be replaced. The temporal muscle is now exposed occupying the whole of the temporal fossa, and it will be noticed that it rises from the temporal fascia as well as from the bones forming the fossa. It is fan-shaped and tapers to its insertion, which is into the tip and anterior border of the coronoid process, by tendon, but this will be seen better when the zygoma is cut. Its anterior fibres are vertical and close the jaw, while the posterior ones are horizontal and act as retractors. Now sketch, divide, and turn aside the structures already exposed on the masseter muscle, and clean its surface. Most of the fibres seen rise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch, and run downwards and backwards to be inserted into the lower part of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible, but at its upper and hinder angle a trian- gular patch of fibres, on a deeper plane than the rest, is exposed ; these rise from the posterior third of the zygoma, and have a nearly vertical direction. Divide the superficial layer of the muscle a little below the zygoma by a horizontal cut, and turn it down in order to see the whole of the deep layer. On doing so it wiU be noticed that the two layers are not altogether distmct; The deep layer is now seen to rise from the whole length of the zygomatic arch on its deep surface, and to be inserted chiefly into the upper part of the outer surface of the mandibular ramus. . Divide the zygoma with a Key's saw as far forward as is possible, taking as much of the malar bone away as can be managed (sec Fig. 61. Cut A). This will make the later