161 THE NECK The Phrenic, on the other hand, Hes quite close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, and therefore in front of the outer end of the first part of the subclavian artery (see Fig. 80). On the right side the recurrent laryngeal nerve leaves the vagus and loops back beneath the first part of the sub- clavian artery, while on both sides a rathei' delicate loop of cervical sympathetic chain passes in front of the artery and joins the middle to the inferior cervical ganglion. This is known as the Annuhos of Vieiossens [ansa subclavia]. The dissector will do well, however, not to expect any great * uniformity in the arrangement of the cervical sympathetic. In addition to the thyroid axis, the first part of the sub- clavian gives off the vertebral and the internal mammary branches. The vertebral artery is almost always the first branch of the subclavian; indeed it is a fairly common abnormality to find it coming off on the left side from the arch of the aorta, between the origins of the left carotid and subclavian arteries. This artery is divided into four stages: (1) At the root of the neck; (2) in the vertebrarterial foramina in the trans- verse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrae; (3) in the suboccipital triangle; and (4) within the dura mater. These four parts are met with in different stages of the dissection of the head and neck, and it is only the first part which concerns us here. The first part of the vertebral artery runs up in front of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra to gain the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth. In its course, which is often tortuous, it passes behind the vertebral vein, and both of them are crossed by the inferior thyroid artery (see Fig. 48, p. 100). Unless he is careful the dissector is liable to cut the latter artery in cleaning the vertebral. The vertebral vein should be cut and turned down, and then the thoracic duct on the left side may be traced inwards, usually lying between the vertebral artery and vein. It was in this part of its course that the verte- VOL. I.