300 PKACTICAL ANATOMY This inferior medullary velum does not roof in all the lower half of the fourth ventricle, but ends below in a free edge. Below this the roof is only formed by the epithelial lining of the ventricle, in which are some openings to be looked for in the second brain. The inferior vermis lies in the vallecula cerehelli, a deep notch between the two lower hemispheres of the cerebellum, and for this reason stands out much more distinctly than does the superior vermis. It is divided into several parts, the names of which are difficult to remember and of little prac- tical interest (see Fig. 132). The divisions of the inferior surface of the cerebellum are of no greater practical value than those of the inferior vermis when the position of the flocculus and tonsil have been noticed. The further subdivisions are interesting to the neurologist, but with an ever-lessening time available for the study of anatomy, the student cannot honestly be advised to learn them to the exclusion of other facts of greater practical importance (see Fig, 131). Now make a median sagittal section through the cere- bellum ; this shows white matter in the interior, though it is not very plentiful. From this a number of branches radiate towards the periphery, each of which divides later into secon- dary, and these again into tertiary branches. In this way a tree-like pattern is formed (arbor vitse), the tertiary branches being covered with grey matter and forming the/oim. Make another sagittal section through the lateral hemi- sphere of the cerebellum on the side from which the medulla has been removed and half an inch from the middle line. Notice in this how much greater the central core of white matter is than in the worm, and look for a deeply-crenated rino- of grey matter embedded in it. This is the corpus dentatum [nucleus dentatus], the principal nucleus of the cerebellum. The Floor of the Fourth Ventricle [Fossa Rhom- boidea].—One-half of the medulla has already been removed