428 PRACTICAL ANATOMY The dorsal interosseous muscles are now fully exposed. As there are four of these, there must be one in each inter- osseus space, but, unlike the plantar muscles, they rise from both the bones which bound the space. Their function is to abduct from the line of the second toe, one being inserted into each side of that toe. The third and fourth must then go to the outer (fibular) side of their own toes, in order to abduct them from the second. In following out the insertion it will be found that these muscles, like the plantar interossei, are inserted only into the bases of the proximal phalanges, and give no expansion to the extensor tendons, as they do in the hand. Before leaving these muscles, notice that they are all supplied by the external plantar nerve, and also that the third plantar lies nearer the outer side of the foot than does the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. There are three small muscles of nearly the same size, and on nearly the same plane, near the outer side of the sole. They are, from Avithout inward: (1) flexor brevis minimi digiti; (2) the third plantar; and (3) the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle (Fig. 179). Two deep tendons in the sole remain to be noticed—the tibiaHs posticus and peroneus longus. Trace the tibialis posticus down from behind the internal malleolus, and notice that it passes just above the level of the sustentaculum taH to reach the tubercle of the navicular bone. This is its main insertion, but expansions are given off to all the other bones of the tarsus except the astragalus, and there is usually one very definite expansion from which the flexor brevis hallucis takes origin; it thus serves, when in action, to brace together all the tarsal bones and so maintain the arch of the instep. Where the tendon is close to its in- sertion, it passes round the inner and lower part of the head of the astragalus and helps to support that bone. Here a sesamoid cartilage or bone is often found in the tendon. It is better to leave the tendon of the peroneus longus until the ligaments of the sole are bemg dissected.