382 PRACTICAL ANATOMY Make a transverse incision about 3 inches long through the fascia lata, one to two inches below the apex of Scarpa's triangle, thereby keeping a band of fascia lata in position. From this incision carry an oblique incision downwards, following the line of the sartorius muscle as far as the upper border of the patella, at which level a second transverse incision should be made. Carefully turn the fascia inwards and outwards, preserving the cutaneous nerves. The mus- cular fibres of the Sartorius will now be distinctly seen. Free the sartorius along its outer border and gently pull it inwards, thereby exposing a strong process of the fascia lata —the suhsartorial fascia—which, passing from the extensor muscles on the outside to the adductor muscles on the inside, roofs over a narrow intermuscular space known as Hunter's Canal [canalis adductorius], in which lie the super- ficial or femoral vessels and certain branches of the anterior crural nerve. It is by incising the suhsartorial fascia that the superficial femoral artery is reached in the operation of ligaturing the artery in Hunter's Canal (see Fig. 165). Before incising this fascia, however, the student should endeavour to expose a fine sxibsartorial nerve plexus, which lies immediately deep to the sartorius, and is formed of branches from the obturator, long saphenous, and internal cutaneous nerves. The easiest branch to find is the one already mentioned, derived from the obturator nerve, and the guide to it is the inner border of the adductor longus muscle. Search should therefore be made along that line if the nerve has not already been observed in the dissection of Scarpa's triangle. The nerve once found will lead the dissector down to the plexus. Now incise the suhsartorial fascia, so directing the incision that the nerves forming the plexus, and particularly the twig from the long saphenous nerve,'escape injury. Hunters Canal, as already defined, is now opened, and its contents and boundaries can be studied. The most superficial structure is the long saplienous nerve, which will be seen crossing the artery from without inwards