105 THE NECK The nerve is always very close and just deep to the course of the superior thyroid artery (see below) (see Fig. 50, E.L.N.). The Branches of the External Carotid Artery should now be looked for and traced as far as the dissection will allow. There are three branches running forwards—the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial; two backwards—the occipital and posterior auricular; one upwards and inwards, the ascending pharyngeal; and, lastly, the two terminal branches—the superficial temporal and internal maxillary. The Superior Thyroid Artery [A. thyreoidea superior] comes off from the very beginning of the external carotid and runs downwards and forwards to the thyroid gland, where its terminal branches have already been seen (Fig. 47). In its course it gives off (1) the superior laryngeal, which accompanies the internal laryngeal nerve through the thyro- hyoid membrane to the interior of the larynx; (2) the occasional sterno-mastoid branch, which crosses the common carotid artery; (3) the crico-thyroid, which may, however, be a branch of the superior laryngeal; (4) terminal glandular branches already noticed (see p. 96). In its course this artery runs very close to the external laryngeal nerve (Fig. 47, E.L.N.). The Lingual Artery [A. Hnguahs] rises opposite the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and after making an upward loop upon the wall of the pharynx, disappears deep to the hyo-glossus muscle. The Facial Artery [A. maxillaris externa] comes off just above the lingual, sometimes by a common trunk. At first it lies superficial to the superior constrictor, and here gives off ascending palatine and tonsillar branches, though the latter often rises from the former. At this point it is deep to the angle of the jaw and only separated from the tonsil by the superior constrictor. It then runs forwards in a tortuous way, covered by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid, to embed itself in the upper surface of the sub- maxillary gland as far as a point 1 inch in front of the ano-Ie