196 PRACTICAL ANATOMY marked venous plexus. At its hinder end the mucous mem- brane often forms a little puckered knob, which in young people contains a mass of lymphoid tissue. It is the swelling of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bone which causes most of the discomfort in a " cold in the head." Take the bone between the two blades of the forceps and lift it up until it breaks; it will still be held in position by the mucous membrane. This is to allow the opening of the nasal duct to be seen near the anterior attached margin. The orifice is usually valvular, and, if it is not seen at once, pass a seeker down from the lacrimal sac, already explored in the face (p. 115), and, on withdrawing the seeker, measure the length of the duct, which is about three-quarters of an inch. The middle turbinated hone [concha nasalis media] is not so long as the inferior, and its anterior end is on a higher level than its posterior. Its mucous membrane resembles that.covering the inferior turbinated, but is not so vascular. Lift this bone up in the same way as that in which the inferior turbinated was lifted, and a globular swelHng, the ethmoidal bulla, will be seen beneath it. Skirting the front and lower part of this bulla is a deep crescentic groove, the hiatus semilunaris; if a seeker is pushed upward along this, it will enter the frontal sinus through a tube known as the 'infundibulum. Below, the hiatus semilunaris has opeu- ino- from it the maxillary antrum [sinus maxillaiis]; and if some fluid is allowed to trickle down from the frontal sinus, it will usually fill the antrum before any escapes into the nose. About the point where the tubular canal of the infun- dibulum becomes the open gutter of the hiatus semilunaris is the opening of the anterior ethmoidal cells, while on the summit of the bulla the middle ethmoidal cells open. The superior turbinated bone [concha nasalis superior] overlies the superior meatus of the nose, and is still shorter and more obUque than the middle [with which it is con- tinuous anteriorly]; it differs from the others m bemg