418 PRACTICAL ANATOMY slips behaves in exactly the same way as the flexor sublimis digitorum tendons in the hand, dividing and wrapping round each side of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, join- ing again deep to those tendons and dividing once more to be inserted into the sides of the middle phalanges. As in the hand, the insertion of the muscle can only be seen when the fibrous theca or digital sheath, which contains the tendons, is laid open. Cut the muscle across and reflect it towards its origin, looking out carefully for a branch of the internal plantar nerve, which enters its deep surface. These three muscles, the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti form what is known as the first layer of the sole. The vessels and nerves should now be attended to, and it will probably be wise to follow the nerves first since they are of greater importance, while the arteries, owing to their injection, are not likely to be cut away. The posterior tibial nerve was seen dividing at a higher level than the artery, as is the general rule with nerves, into the internal and external plantar.' At first these two nerves run downwards and forwards on the inner side of the calcaneum between the origins of the abductor hallucis and accessorius; here each artery often lies below its own nerve, the internal plantar nerve being highest, then the internal plantar artery, then the external plantar nerve, while the external plantar artery is the lowest of all, as a rule (see Fig. 178). Follow the internal plantar nerve [n. plantaris medialis], which is rather the larger of the two, forward along the interval between the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles, and notice the branches it gives off to each of these; some jilnntar cutaneous tivigs, too, should be looked for between the two muscles. About the middle of the foot the whole nerve becomes superficial in the same interval, and divides into four digital branches, the innermost of which may be traced to the inner side of the big toe,