TARSAL JOINTS 445 is slight. Notice how convex the articular surface is on the calcaneum, and how much forward it looks as well as upward. If another foot, on which the joints have not yet been dissected, is referred to, it will be noticed that the transverse tarsal joint allows a certain amount of hinge movement or dorsal and plantar flexion, thus carrying on the movement of the ankle; there is present, however, in addi- tion, a rotatory movement of the front part of the foot round an antero-posterior or longitudinal axis passing between the cuboid and navicular bones. This, of course, results in eversion or inversion of the sole, and a good deal of help is given to this movement at the calcaneo-astragalar joints. The other tarsal joints should be examined from the dorsal aspect and their positions determined by the division of the dorsal ligaments binding them together. After division of the dorsal ligaments it will not be fouaul possible to separate the distal row of bones, i.e. the three cuneiforms and cuboid, very far, because they are firmly bound together by strong interosseous ligaments at the non-articular parts of their opposed surfaces. It is on these ligaments that the transverse arch of the foot largely depends for keeping its shape under pressure. It will be convenient, while working on the dorsum, to open up and examine the tarso-metatarsal joints, the dorsal ligaments of which consist of longitudinal and oblique bands. In the case of the big toe the joint is quite distinct, and has a complete capsule of its own, but in the others one joint cavity is shared between two metatarsal bones; thus there is one for the second and third and another for the fourth and fifth. The dissector is advised to examine very carefully whether these cavities communicate with the laraer synovial joint between the anterior tarsal bones. In tlie writers' experience they do not, or, when they do, it is only on the inner side of the second metatarsal bone between the uiner and middle cuneiform bones. This, however, is not the arrangement which is usually depicted in standard text-books