360 PRACTICAL ANATOMY cleaned and preserved; the smaller veins may be cut and removed. The external popliteal nerve lies in its whole course within the space along the inner border of the biceps. It leaves the space by winding round the neck of the fibula, lying directly on the bone, covered to some extent by the upper fibres of the peroneus longus muscle. The branches which it gives off in its course are cutaneous and articular. The former are represented by two nerves, one of which, the Ramus GoTnmunicans Fihularis [ramus anastomoticus pero- nseus], arises from the external popliteal about the level of the knee-joint and passes downwards and slightly inwards, lying on the plantaris and the outer head of the gastroc- nemius ; the other, an unnamed branch, to the skin of the upper, outer, and anterior portion of the leg, either arises in common with the ramus communicans fibularis or in close proximity to it. The articular branches are three in number—upper, lower, and recurrent—and require great care to display. The first runs outward deep to the biceps tendon above the external condyle; the second in a similar direc- tion, but at a lower level, deep to the external lateral liga- ment—an attempt should be made to find the small branch given by this last nerve to the superior tibio-fibular joint— while the third, which springs from the nerve as it lies on the neck of the fibula deep to the peroneus longus, should not be looked for at the present stage, as it will be more convenient to discover it later. The Internal Popliteal Nerve [n. tibialis] runs vertically through the pophieal space from its upper to its lower angle. Deep to it are the popliteal vessels. Its branches are cutaneous, articular, and muscular. The cutaneous branch, the Ramus communicans tibialis [n. cutaneus surae medialis] will be found descending in the furrow between the two heads of the gastrocnemius. Its union with the ramus communicans fibularis and its final dis- tribution will be seen later. The articular branches are