220 PRACTICAL ANATOMY are supplied via the short ciliaries, ciliary ganglion,^ nasal nerve, cavernous plexus, cervical sympathetic and upper two or three thoracic spinal nerves. This complicated path is pointed out because it is of clinical importance. Now take another bullock's eye and make a good-sized window in the sclerotic. Take it back nearly to the optic nerve and forward to near the ciUary region ; reflect it care- ^ fully, keeping the eye in a vessel of water. The sclerotic' will come away from the choroid quite easily, because there is a perichoroidal lymph space between them, crossed by some delicate pigmented cellular tissue called the lamimia fusca. At the posterior part of the space look for the cihary nerves and arteries sinking gradually into the choroid as they run forwards. Notice, too, the characteristic whorls made by the venae vorticosae. Take a tangential slice off the sclerotic where the optic nerve is entering; if the cut surface be carefully looked at it is sometimes seen that, while the sheath of the nerve joins the sclerotic, the nerve fibres pass through a number ot small holes in the fibrous tissue, which is therefore called the lamina crihrosa. Lastly, cut out a piece of the ciliary region showing the junction of the cornea, sclerotic, iris, and cihary bodies ; examine the cut surface very carefully with a hand- lens to see the ciliary muscle rising from the sclero-corneal iunction, close to the canal of Schlemm, and runnmg back- wards into the ciliary bodies in a fan-like manner. In- ternal to these there are some circular fibres, but it is very difficult to make them out without a microscope. _ Another point which cannot be demonstrated m the dis- secting-room, but is of great clinical importance, is that the cihary region derives most of its blood from the anterwr cihary arteries which enter the anterior part of the eyeball near the attachment of the muscles. It may also interest t^ie student to know that, while the ciliary region and iris are hbe ally supphed with nerves of sensation, the choroid is very insensitive. 1 Or long ciliaries and nasal nerve; see footnote on p. 207.