PRACTICAL ANATOMY 336 •a very dead-wliite tract lying on the outer side of the pos- terior horn of the lateral ventricle, and running from the lower visual centres (superior quadrigerainal body, geniculate bodies and pulvinar) to the higher visual centre or grey matter in the neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure (Fig. 148). 3. The white hand of Gennari—a white stripe in the grey matter of the occipital cortex, best marked in the immediate neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure, but reaching as far as the occipital pole and even on to a little of the outer surface of the occipital lobe. Its presence marks the visual area of the cortex (see Fig. 148). On the opposite side of the brain make a section obliquely doAvnwards and backwards, passing through the front of the optic thalamus and the crusta of the crus cerebri. This will pass through the internal capsule a little behind its genu, and display the course of the motor tract from the capsule into the crus cerebri. As the upper part of the brain has been cut away, the upper part of the tract where it leaves the region of the Rolandic fissure cannot be seen, but it is clear that its fibres must converge a good deal as the capsule is approached. This convergence is known as the corona radiata. It is -also clear that the fibres of the corona radiata could not reach the internal capsule from the cerebral cortex with- out decussating with the tapetal fibres of the corpus callosum. This decussation occurs in and largely forms the centrum ovale majus. In order to display the course of the sensory tract a section should be made parallel to and a little behind the last. This would probably pass through the red nucleus in its lower part (see p. 293), immediately to the outer side of which the fillet [lemniscus] lies on its way up from the medulla to the optic thalamus. Above this the posterior limb of the internal capsule will be cut, in which are fibres running up from the thalamus to the cortex. As one-half of the first brain, on which the convolutions