PRACTICAL ANATOMY 328 below the fornix, to the great transverse fissure of the brain, where the two veins unite to form the great vein of Galen [v. magna cerebri] and so pass to the straight sinus. If the turned-back fornix is now replaced, it will be seen that the body of the lateral ventricle is triangular in section, though the triangle is much compressed from above down- wards. Its roof is the corpus callosum which has been cut away; its floor, from without inwards, the caudate nucleus, taenia semicircularis, optic thalamus, choroid plexus and fornix; while its narrow base is the place where the fornix is attached to the corpus callosum (see Fig. 151, ^). Into the cavity of the ventricle the choroid plexus bulges from below the edge of the fornix, and at the foramen of Monro the lateral ventricle is able to communicate with its fellow of the opposite side as well as with the third ventricle. Next determine the extent and direction of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle with a seeker, and then open it up by removing thin horizontal slices of the occipital lobe. Localise the internal parieto-occipital fissure, and notice that the horn curves round this, at first passing backwards and outwards and then backwards and inwards, so that, when the two horns are displayed, they resemble the handles of a pair of pliers (see Fig. 143, P.C.). The fibres of the forceps major form a convexity on the inner wall, known as the bulb of the iJosterior horn, and this must not be mistaken for the hippocampus minor or calcar avis, which is another and usually less well-marked swelling on the inner wall, corresponding to the anterior part of the calcarine fissure on the medial surface of the brain. It lies below the bulb, and varies a good deal in its development in different brains. The descending horn of the lateral ventricle is seen running downwards and outwards from the junction of the body and posterior horn. The tail of the caudate nucleus and the taenia semicircularis have been noticed disappearing