PRACTICAL ANATOMY 416 which Ues between it and the flexor brevis digitorum, its neighbouring muscle. Traced forwards the tendon is in- serted into the inner side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the big toe. Be careful in reflecting the origin, because the two plantar arteries and nerves lie here on the inner side of the calcaneum, deep to the abductor hallucis and between it and the accessorius. With care the twig from the internal plantar nerve may be traced into the deep surface of the abductor hallucis. The abductor minimi digiti [m. abductor digiti quinti] is seen on the outer side of the foot, rising from both the inner and outer posterior tubercles of the calcaneum, as well as from the strong septum which lies between it and the flexor brevis digitorum. Its insertion may be traced to the outer side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe, while in its course it almost always gives some fibres to or receives some fibres from, an attachment to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Little is gained by cutting this par- ticular muscle, though it is a good working rule to see what lies on the deep side of every muscle in the body. Next divide the central portion of the deep plantar fascia a little way behind its point of division for the toes, and turn it back as far as possible without tearing the fibres of the subjacent flexor hrevis digitorum, which rise from its deep surface, as well as from the two septa which separate them respectively from the abductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti. It will now be realised that the flexor brevis digitorum rises from the inside of a trough-like fibrous compartment, the floor of which is the plantar fascia and the sides the two intermuscular septa; the trough widens in front as the muscle widens, but narrows rapidly behind, so that the bony origin of the flexor brevis is a very small one from the internal posterior tubercle of the calcaneum.^ As the muscle runs forward it will be found to divide mto four slips, one for each of the four outer toes. Each of these