THE GLUTEAL REGION 347 The superficial fascia should be now removed, the uerves being turned back as they are inet, and the gluteus maximus [m. glut£Bus maximus] cleaned. It is convenient to remove all the fascia together and at the same time, and by the same process, to clean the muscle. To do this make an incision parallel with and just above the upper border of the gluteus maximus. The incision should be carried right down to the strong fibrous gluteal aponeurosis. Then reflect the fasciae by bold sweeps of the scalpel, always cutting parallel to the muscular fibres, and see that all the borders and corners of the muscle are cleaned. Great care should be exercised along the lower border, where the small sciatic nerve [n. cutaneus femoris posterior] in particular is in danger. It is not a bad plan to dissect out this nerve before the reflexion is completed. It passes vertically down the back of the thigh about midway between the great trochanter and the tuber ischii. The small recurrent twigs to the skin of the buttock [nn. clunium inferiores] are useful guides to the main trunk. The gluteus maximus muscle will thus be seen to arise from the back part of the dorsum ilii above the superior curved line, from the adjacent portion of the iliac crest, the lumbar fascia, the side of the lower part of the sacrum and upper part of the coccyx. The muscle should now be carefully separated from its origin. In doing this it is better to start from below and keep close to the origin, shaving the muscle quite away, as an overhanging edge of it interferes with the later dissection. A strong ligament, the great sacro-sciatic [lig. sacro- tuberosum], will be seen passing between the sacrum and ilium to the ischium. A large number of the deep fibres of the gluteus maximus arise from the superficial surface of this ligament. From these extensive origins the fibres of the gluteus maximus pass downwards and outwards. The superficial fibres of the muscle and the upper deep fibres are inserted into a strong fibrous band which passes down from