PtlACllCAL ANATOMY the inner side of the sole, as well as from a well-marked ex- pansion of the tibialis posticus tendon near its insertion into the tubercle of the navicular bone. As the muscle runs forward it divides into two fleshy bellies, each of which, as it ncars the head of the first meta- tarsal bone, becomes tendinous, and has a sesamoid bone formed in it before it is inserted into its own side of the plantar surface of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. These sesamoid bones should be carefully studied by freeing the flexor brevis from its origin and turning it forward, but before this is done it will be well to notice once more the nerve supply from the internal plantar entering the muscle on its superficial or plantar surface. Before the sesamoid bones can be turned forward the plantar ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal joint must be divided, as they are embedded in it. It is a very dense ligament, and wiU be noticed more carefully when the joints are studied. Each sesamoid bone will be found to tit into an antero-posterior groove below the head of the metatarsal bone. Their arti- cular surfaces are therefore convex from side to side, and in this way they may be distinguished when removed from the pisiform bone, for which they are easily mistaken, but this bone always has a flat articular surface. The adductor ohliquus hallucis lies on the outer side of the flexor brevis, and rises from the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the outer side of the plantar surface of the base of the proximal phalanx of the big toe, blending with the outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Its nerve, from the deep division of the external plantar, enters its deep surface, and is best displayed by dividing the muscle near its insertion and turning it backwards and inwards. The adductor transversus hallucis rises from the plantar ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joints of the third and