413 THE FOOT and 2nd metatarsals, to reach the sole of the foot, where it helps to form the plantar arch. As it runs forward it gives off two branches, which pass almost transversely outwards, the tarsal [a. tarsea lateralis], at or near the level of the astragalo-navicular joint, and the metatarsal, near the line of the tarso-metatarsal joint. Just before the artery disappears, a third branch—the first dorsal mferossetts—passes forwards in the first inter-metatarsal space. Similar arteries are found in the other interosseous spaces, the 2nd, Zrd, and 4i/i dorsal intcrosseovbs arteries [aa. digitales dorsales], branches of the metatarsal artery. These interosseous arteries lie in each case upon the dorsal interosseous muscles, to which they furnish a number of small arterial twigs. The insertion of the extensor tendons should next be examined. The tibialis anticus tendon is inserted into the inner surface of the internal cuneiform and the adjacent part of the base of the 1st metatarsal bone. The extensor pro- prius hallucis tendon is inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the distal phalanx of the big toe, while the inner- most tendon of the extensor hrevis digitorum is inserted separately into the base of the proximal phalanx of the same toe. The tendons of the extensor longus digitorum to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th toes unite with the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum to these toes in an expansion which lies over the proximal phalanx, but which, traced forwards, divides into a central and two lateral slips, the first of which is inserted into the base of the 2nd phalanx, while the two lateral slips reunite and gain insertion into the terminal phalanx. The tendon of the extensor longus digitorum to the 5th toe forms a similar expansion, from which similar slips proceed to their insertion. The tendon of the peronem tertius should be next traced to its insertion into the dorsum of the base of the 5th metatarsal bone. Immediately to its outer side the tendon of the peroneus brevis will be seen to gain an insertion into the tuberosity of the same bone, and it is quite a common thing to find a fine tendon continued on