PRACTICAL ANATOMY 380 so that a transverse section of the thigh near the apex of the triangle would divide first the superficial femoral artery, then the superficial femoral vein, then the deep femoral vein, and, deepest of all, the deep femoral artery. The Internal Circumflex Artery [A. circuraflexa femoris medialis] will be found rising from the deep femoral on its posterior (deep) surface, close to its commencement; it pro- ceeds directly backwards, passing through the floor of the triangle between the pectineus and ilio-psoas. Its termina- tions, it will be remembered, were seen m the buttock, the ascending branch appearing at the upper, the transverse at the lower border of the Quadratus Femoris.' The External Circumflex Artery [A. circumflexa femoris lateralis], on the other hand, runs outwards, separating, in some cases, the branches of the anterior crural nerve into superficial and deep sets, and leaves the triangle by passmg under cover of the sartorius. It usually rises below the origin of the internal circumflex. The external circumflex artery breaks up into three branches or sets of branches: (a) an ascending, which ends by associating itself with the nerve to the tensor fasciae femoris; (h) a transverse, which anastomoses with the corresponding branch of the internal circumflex; and (c) descending, which associates itself with the nerve to the vastus externus. Veins corresponding to these arteries will be found opening into the common femoral vein. It may be further noted that, while the common femoral vein lies to the inner side of its artery above, it tends to lie more and more behind the artery as it is traced downwards, and that after the deep femoral artery has also passed behind the superficial femoral the two arteries are separated from each other by the two veins. Many anatomists prefer to describe these great arteries differently. Instead of speaking of a common femoral trunk which divides into two terminal branches, superficial and deep femoral, they regard the common and superficial femoral as one long trunk—the femoral artery—which gives