444 PRACTICAL ANATOMY navicular, a fairly strong ligament—the external calcaneo- navicular — int ervening. Now excise the astragalus from its bed by cutting the interosseous astragalo calcaneal ligament [lig. talo-calcaneum mecliale], a rather difficult proceeding, since it lies in a bony tunnel formed by opposing grooves in the two bones. When this is divided, very little more cutting will be necessary in order to free the astragalus. Lift it out, and notice that it occupies two articular cavities, a larger antero-internal and a smaller postero-external. The larger cavity is formed by the concave posterior surface of the navicular bone in front, by the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum behind and below, and by the inferior calcaneo-navicular or spring liga- ment of the foot [lig. calcaneo-naviculare plantare] connect- ing these two, and forming the support for a large area of the head of the astragalus. Externally the socket is completed by the external cal- caneo-navicular ligament, as well as in most cases by a facet on the antero-internal part of the upper surface of the cal- caneum. Behind the articular cavity is bounded by the already cut interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. This cavity is of great importance in the mechanism of the foot, and, it will be seen, forms part of two joints which are usually considered separately in systematic text-books. The anterior part, between the navicular and head of the astragalus, is the inner part of the transverse tarsal JOINT and is often regarded as a ball and socket rather than a mere gliding joint, while the posterior part is the anterior astragalo-calcaneal articulation (see Fig. 188). The position of the tibialis posticus tendon, just below the spring ligament, is of great importance in helping that structure' to support the pressure of the head of the astragalus. i i • j fi The posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint lies behind tne interosseous calcaneo-astragalar ligament, which, of course, forms the anterior part of its capsule; elsewhere its capsule