433 THE KNEE-JOINT On the inner side of the joint is the long internal lateral ligament [lig. collaterale tibiale], the upper attachment of which is, hke that of the long external ligament, to the summit of the tuberosity. Unlike the external, however, it runs downwards and forwards, and usually attaches itself rather closely to the internal semilunar cartilage. After this it becomes attached to the internal margin of the tuberosity, and is then continued downwards and forwards for another two inches along the shaft of the tibia. Notice that the inferior internal articular artery passes deep to this con- tinuation of the ligament, and is therefore on a much lower level than is the inferior external articular. Now turn down the patella and look carefully into the joint. If the ligamentum mucosum [plica synovialis patellaris] has not been torn, it will catch the eye at once as a dehcate fold attached to the place where the trochlear surface of the femur ends and the intercondylar notch begins; as it approaches the patella it enlarges and swells into a cushion of fat encased in synovial membrane, while a wing-hke expansion projects from the cushion on either side of the stalk-like part. These are the ligamenta alaria [phcaj alares], and are very useful in filling inequalities during the changing shape of the moving knee. While the joiiit is still undisturbed, bend it to varying degrees, and notice how during flexion the patella gradually slides off the trochlear surface and rests against the lower surfaces of the condyles, though much more against the outer than the inner. The accompanying section (Fig. 183) shows how useful the ligamentum mucosum is in tilling the gap between the patella and femur when the loAver parts of the articular surfaces are not in contact. It also shows the synovial fringes which sometimes enlarge and cause trouble. Divide the attachment of the ligamentum mucosum to the femur and turn it forward with the patella; this will allow the anterior parts of the semilunar cartilages and of the VOL. I. 2 E