853 THE GLUTEAL REGION" the femur, immediately below the small trochanter. If the quadratus femoris be cut through and reflected, this latter bony prominence will be easily recognised with the tendon of the ilio-psoas inserted into it. Note that the trochanter points backwards as well as inwards. At a still lower level an artery of considerable size, the first perforating artery, will be seen appearing through the fibres of the adductor magnus muscle and lying directly upon the femur. On reaching that portion of the gluteus maximus which is inserted into the gluteal ridge the artery divides into two branches, ©ne of which passes onwards through the muscle, while the other passes more or less vertically upwards under cover of the gluteus maximus as originally placed. Certain arteries of the buttock—viz. the gluteal, sciatic, internal circumflex and first perforating freely anastomose under cover of the gluteus maximus. This anastomosis is of considerable importance in effecting the collateral circula- tion rendered necessary after ligation of the external iliac or the femoral arteries. The gluteus medius should now be reflected by detaching it from the dorsum ilii. This is best effected by making a curved incision with its convexity upwards through the substance of the muscle just below its upper limit, then pass the handle of the scal|)el between the muscle and the bone and so separate the muscle from its area of origin. Tlie pro- cedure should be executed with care in order that the under- lying structures may not be harmed. Its nerve of supply comes from the superior gluteal nerve and enters it on its deep surface close to its posterior border. The Gluteus Medius [m. glutaeus medius] arises from the dorsum ilii between the iliac crest and superior curved line above and the middle curved line below, also from the strona fascia which Hes over that portion of the muscle which is un^ covered by the gluteus maximus. Its fibres converge towards its tendon of insertion, which is attached to the diac^onal ridge on the external surface of the great trochanter seiSirat- VOL. I. ' ^