401 PERONEAL COMPARTMENT external popliteal nerve to the upper, outer, and anterior part of the leg; in the lower half, from the musculo-cutaneous nerve. A few small veins may also be seen passing back- wards into the posterior compartment. If the superficial fascia be next cleared away, the strong deep fascia will be- come apparent marl^ed by two white verticaMines corre- sponding to intermuscular septa —the anterior peroneal septum [s. intermusculare anterius], between the anterior tibio-fibular compartment and the peroneal; the posterior peroneal septum [s. intermusculare posterius] between the posterior tibio-fibular compartment and the peroneal. It is at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the anterior peroneal septum that the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the deep fascia. The deep fascia should be now incised vertically, midway between the two septa, and turned forward and backward. In the compartment thus opened are two muscles only clearly separable from each other after the muscular bellies have passed into tendon, the peroneus longus [m. peronseus longus] and peroneus hrevis. The easiest way of separating them is to begin with the tendons and then to trace the muscles upwards. The tendons lie close together, that of the peroneus brevis lying directly in contact with the bone, deep to the tendon of the peroneus longus. The peroneus longus will be seen to arise from the upper two-thirds of the external surface of the fibula, the peroneus hrevis from the lower two-thirds. There is conse- quently an overlap in the middle third, the peroneus brevis lying anterior to the peroneus longus. In addition to their origin from bone, both muscles arise from the septa be- tween which they lie. The large external popliteal nerve [n. perona3us communis] enters the upper part of the compart- ;: ment, winding round the neck of the fibula under cover of ' I the peroneus longus muscle, in which position it divides mto iits two terminal divisions, the anterior tibial [n. peronreus pro- Ifundus] which pierces the anterior peroneal septum high up and so enters the anterior tibio-fibular compartment, and tho VOL. I. 2 c