PRACTICAL ANATOMY 124 hide, a space which, as long as the teeth are clenched, only communicates with the mouth behind the last molars. Stensen's duct opens into the vestibule opposite the second upper molar tooth on a little papilla, which may often be felt with the tip of the tongue. The teeth should be looked at whenever an opportunity occurs, since they are of constant interest in medical prac- tice. Notice how much broader the upper central incisor is than the lower; this causes it to overlap the central and half the lateral lower incisor, and from this onwards, with the exception of the last molar, every tooth in the upper jaw bites against two in the lower. The bicuspid teeth [dentes premolares] have two cusps which are lingual and labial in position, while the angle of the mouth generally corresponds to the interval between these two teeth in the upper jaw. The upper molars have three or four cusps, the lower four or five. The hard palate shows a median ridge or raphe ending in front in the little palatine papilla, which marks the position of the anterior palatine canal. From the raphe five or six irregular ridges, the palatine ruga;, run trans- versely outwards. At the outer and back part of the hard palate the hamular process may be felt with care; since it is directed backwards and outwards, it is not nearly so easily felt as might be expected on examining the dried skull. About a fingers-breadth in front of it is the opening of the large posterior palatine canal [Foramen palatinum majus] through which the main vessels and nerves reach the hard palate. Behind the hard palate the inferior or oral surface of the soft palate [Velum palatinum] is seen ending posteriorly in the conical uvula, while from the sides of the soft palate run the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces [Arci palatini], with the tonsil [tonsilla palatina] between them. In a healthy normal individual the tonsils hardly project beyond the level of the anterior pillars of the fauces.