6 PRACTICAL ANATOMY into the skull, the lower part is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of those cervical vertebrae which are nearest, namely, the upper one, two or three, and this part, when present, is known as the splenius colli [M. splenius cervicis]. The whole sheet is supplied by the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves in relation with it. Notice that the great occipital nerve does not pierce the splenius, though the third occipital does. The Erector Spince [M. sacrospinalis] is one great mass below rising from the posterior part of the inner surface of the iliac crest, from the posterior sacro-ihac hgaments, the posterior surface of the sacrum and the sacral, lumbar and lower thoracic spines. No useful purpose is served by learning the whole of the insertions, since they are very variable and of little or no practical importance. It will be noticed that the lower part of the mass is covered by a strong aponeurosis—the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia—[¥. lumbodorsalis], but this cannot be cleaned away satisfactorily since the muscle rises from its deep surface. Running upwards, the mass divides mto three columns, of which the outer is known as the ^l^o- costalis [M. iho-costalis lumborum], and is inserted into the lower six ribs at their angles. Rising just internal to these insertions are other tendons which run up to the angles of the upper six ribs and form the accessorius [M. ilio-costalis dorsi]. This m its turn is succeeded by the cervicalis ascendens, rising internal to the accessorius from the upper six ribs, and being inserted into the posterior tubercles of some of the lower cervical trans- verse processes. . • i i i. The middle column of the erector spmse is the largest, and is called the longissimus dorsi, while the most internal is the spinalis dorsi. This latter is so called because it is entirely attached to spines; it is a narrow muscle rismg irom the lumbar and lower thoracic, and being ii^serted mto the