PRACTICAL ANATOMY 262 a notch with the mastoid, this hne will correspond in its anterior half-inch to the Eustachian tube, in the second half-inch to the tympanum, while in the third half-inch it lies over the antrum. This line corresponds very closely to the position of the petro-squamous suture in the child's skull, a suture which sometimes persists in the adult. It is of clinical importance to notice that the aditus opens close to the roof of the antrum, and is therefore not a very efficient drain to that cavity. In the posterior third of this line, chisel through the tegmen tympani, which is very thin, and expose the whole extent of the mastoid antrum. This cavity, of course, varies somewhat in size, and may perhaps be most happily compared to a wide-mouthed flask, the long axis of which is continuous with that of the tympanum and Eustachian tube. It is usually described as capable of containing a large pea, though the pea would have to be forcibly moulded into it; it is, however, very difficult to estimate its size properly owing to the fact that its walls are so richly sculptured with a network of bars and ridges of bone. These, in their turn, gradually fade away into the air-containing cancellous tissue of the mastoid process. Now put the two halves of the right ear together and find the suprameatal triangle just above and behind the margin of the bony external auditory meatus; it varies a good deal in different skulls, but when well marked forms a very definite httle triangular fossa, in the basal wall of which a shai-p suprameatal spine overhangs the edge of the meatus. This spine may often be felt in the living head by putting the tip of the index finger into the external auditory meatus and pressing upwards and backwards. Even if it is not sufficiently well developed to be felt, the edge of the bony meatus can be made out and the site of the triangle localised. Having made out the position of the triangle, clear the soft parts^'away from the bone by one sweeping downward cut, and drill directly inwards from the bottom of the triangle.