THE ANTERIOR TRIANGLE 85 been made down the surface of the sterno-mastoid, so that it is only necessary to make a horizontal one along the lower border of the body of the lower jaw and to carry it back until it meets the first close to the tip of the mastoid process (Incision No. 8, Fig. 40). The triangular flap of skin should then be turned forwards. This must be done carefully to avoid injury to the thin platysma sheet which runs down- wards and backwards from the muscles of the lower lip to pass superficial to the clavicle. Below the chin it will be noticed that the platysma muscles of opposite sides decussate across the mid line, but, as they descend, their anterior borders diverge (see Fig. 41). Through the platysma the external jugular vein already dissected in the posterior triangle can be seen, accompanied by some small superficial lymphatic nodes. The great auricular and transverse cervical nerves are also seen wind- ing round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, while, near the mid line, the anterior jugular vein runs down from the region beneath the chin. Between the chin and the hyoid bone, on each side of the mid line, is a small supra- hyoid lymphatic node which drains the lower lip and chin region and is of considerable clinical importance (see Fig. 42, S.H.N.). Now reflect the platysma from below upwards, and in doing so look for the cervical branch of the facial nerve [ramus colli], which runs down just behind the angle of the jaw to join twigs of the transverse cervical nerve, and so supply the muscle. Deep to the platysma is the ensheathing layer of the deep cervical fascia, which is usually described as splitting to form a sheath for the sterno-mastoid. The dissector must not expect to see a definite sheet of dense fascia like the fascia-lata in the thigh. A little close observation will convince him that all the interstices between the structures in the neck are filled in with cellular tissue containing a variable amount of fat in its meshes, and that all the fascial planes are merely slight condensations of this. It should be