PRACTICAL ANATOMY 216 is pigmented. Posteriorly it is perforated by the optic nerve, while anteriorly, just before it joins the iris, it becomes folded to form the ciliary bodies, to be noted later. It is essenti- ally a vascular coat, and its deeper layer, the chorio-capillaris, nourishes the outer layers of the retina. The Iris is the diaphragm which, by varying the size of its opening—the pupil—can regulate the amount of light admitted to the eye. It lies very close to and just in front of the lens, although there is a small triangular space known as the posterior aqueous chamber between the two, and bounded externally by the bases of the ciliary processes. It is thus seen that only the pupillary margin of the iris is in contact with the lens capsule. The anterior aqueous chamber Hes between the cornea and the iris, and is about an eighth of an inch from before backwards. The Betina is seen as an extremely delicate, whitish membrane, which easily separates from the choroid, espe- cially when the vitreous humour is removed. This " de- tachment of the retina" sometimes occurs in life as the result of a blow on the eye. As a matter of fact, the whole of the retina is not present in the delicate white membrane, because there is a layer of very black pigment^ which de- velopmentally belongs to the retina, but is left behind on the choroid when the retina separates from it. This pigmented layer, lined internally by columnar epitheUum, is continued forwards over the inner surface of the cihary processes, and here is supposed to play an important part in the secretion of the aqueous humour; it is known as the pars ciliaris retincB. On the back of the iris, too, the black pio-ment layer, together Avith the columnar cells, here also pig- mented, is very marked, and is called the ^mrs iriclica rethvx. The'iem in the dissecting-room is opaque, especially if spirit has come near it. It is enclosed in a structureless capsule, though this is not visible to the naked eye. in the section it is bi-convex, with the anterior surface a good 1 Tapetum.