65 INTRACRANIAL REGION Its injected vessels will be valuable for comparison with those of the second brain. Examine the falx cerebri, and notice that it has blood sinuses between its layers, superior longitudinal sinus above and the very small inferior longitudinal below. Posteriorly, where it is so much deeper, it joins the ten- torium cerebelli in the mid line, and forms the ridge pole of the tent after which this structure is named. At the anterior point of the junction between the falx and tentorium the inferior longitudinal sinus receives a vein which comes out of the back of the brain, known as the great vein of Galen [V. cerebri magna]. These two veins, having joined, run backwards and downwards as the straight sinus [S. rectus], the walls of which are formed by a splitting of the layers of the dura mater along the line of attachment of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli. This straight sinus, as well as the inferior longitudinal, should be sht open as far as possible. The tentorium cerebelli, seen from above, is really very tent or awning Hke ; it is fixed posteriorly to the skull oppo- site the internal occipital protuberance, and its attached border can be traced outwards as far as the outer end of the upper border of the petrous bone, then inwards and for- wards along this border until the posterior clinoid process is I'eached. From the internal occipital protuberance to the petrous bone, its attached border splits to enclose the hori- zontal part of the lateral sinus [S. transversus], while where ic is fastened to the petrous bone it encloses a much smaller sinus, the superior petrosal [S. petrosus superior] (see Fig. 32). Sht open these sinuses, and examine them; it will be seen that the superior longitudinal sinus generally (three times out of four) passes almost directly into the right lateral, while the straight sinus turns into the left. There IS, however, a communication between the two sides and this meeting-place of the sinuses is known as the tmxular Herophili [confluens sinuum].