312 PRACTICAL ANATOMY « along this that the pia mater is invaginated into the lateral ventricles to form the tela chorioidea containing the choroid plexuses between its two layers. Now the LIMBIC LOBE [gyrus fornicatus] can be under- stood; it is composed of the callosal gyrus, the isthmus, the liippocampal gyrus, and the uncus, and would form a com- plete oval ring were it not for the vallecula Sylvii in front. It must be remembered that the outer root of the olfactory tract passes into the uncus, while the inner joins the callosal gyrus, and so the rather happy simile of a tennis racket laid on its side has been suggested for the limbic lobe, the olfactory tract forming the handle of the racket. The specimen at this stage illustrates not only the whole limbic lobe but the whole course of the fornix as seen from the mid line; indeed, the fornix, septum lucidum, and gyrus dentatus have been included in the limbic lobe by some anatomists. The margined convolutions lie nearer the margin of the brain than the callosal gyrus, from which they are separated by the calloso-marginal sulcus [s. cinguli]. This sulcus begins below the rostrum of the corpus callosum and winds round the genu to a point nearly vertically above the splenium. Here it turns upwards to the margin of the brain, and in many cases is seen to curve round the upper end of the central or Rolandic fissure, which often reaches this medial surface of the brain and runs for a little distance downwards and backwards. This posterior inch of the marginal convolution, contain- ing the medial continuation of the central fissure, is some- times marked off from the rest by the continuation over the edge of the brain of the precentral sulcus, and is then known as the paracentral lobule (see Fig. 139). Behind this paracentral lobule lies a square area called the j^recuneus, bounded posteriorly by the internal parieto- occipital FISSURE, which is continuous with the external parieto-occipital on the outer surface of the brain. This