430 PRACTICAL ANATOMY sliould be again looked for. Sometimes a separate bursa, deep to the semi-membranosus, is found (see Fig. 181). 5. The popliteus bursa. Lift up the cut popliteus mii.scle and push a seeker deep to it towards the knee-joint. There is very little difficulty in understanding that this bursa is really an expansion of the synovial membrane of the knee along the deep surface of the popliteus. 6. A small bursa where the external lateral ligament splits the insertion of the biceps into the head of the fibula. 7. A bursa between the insertions of the sartorius, semi- tendinosus, and gracilis. It will be noticed that of these bursse two always com- municate with the joint—-the supra-patellar and popliteal— while one may do so, the semimembranosus bursa. The others never do. Now examine the capsule of the knee all round from the outside. In front is the ligamentum patellcs, already noticed, and on either side of it the lateral piatellar liga- ments [retinacula patellae], which are very ill-defined sheets of fascia continuous with the attachments of the vasti. The outer one [retinaculum laterale] is strengthened by the lower end of the ilio-tihial hand [tractus iho-tibialis], which sends its anterior fibres into the outer border of the patella, while the posterior run to the front of the outer tuberosity of the tibia where a tubercle for them is often felt. Working backward on the outer side the long external lateral ligament [lig. collaterale fibulare] is reached; clear it carefully from its surroundings and notice its cord-like structure. Above it will be found attached to the summit of the external tuberosity of the femur, while below it reaches the outer side of the head of the fibula. Notice that when the knee-joint is extended the ligament stretches from above downwards and backwards. Deep to the long external lateral ligament, and on a level with the actual joint, look for the inferior external articular arteo^, and, still deeper, for the tendon of the popliteus where it rises