158 PRACTICAL ANATOMY the sterno-mastoid, the outer edge of which, as has been seen, corresponds to the outer edge of the anterior scalene below. Then the tendon of the omo-hyoid crosses on its way from the posterior to the anterior triangle of the neck. It is here that it is said to be bound down to the first rib by a loop of deep cervical fascia, which should be looked for very carefully. In addition to the common carotid, the transversalis colli and suprascapular arteries run horizontally out in front of the scalenus anticus, and these may now be traced imvards to their origin from the thyroid axis. The Thyroid axis [truncus thyreo-cervicalis] is a short trunk which lies immediately to the inner side of the scalenus anticus, comes off the first part of the subclavian artery, and is often overlapped by the internal jugular vein. As this vein has already been studied, it may be divided and its lower part turned down, but great care must be taken here, because on the left side the thoracic duct lies behind the lower part of the internal jugular and close to the inner side of the thyroid axis, while on the right side the right lym- phatic duct, when present as a single distinct vessel, occupies the same position. Besides the transversahs colli and supra- scapular arteries, the thyroid axis gives off the inferior thyroid artery, which runs upwards and inwards behmd the carotid vessels (see Fig. 78). Now examine the veins of this region. The lower end of the internal jugular vein, if traced down, will be seen to jom the subclavian close to the inner border of the scalenus anticus and well behind the clavicle, about an inch from the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is here that the vem may be auscultated and the venous pulse observed. The whole of the subclavian vein is now exposed, and its leno-th is a good deal less than that of the artery. The artery, as has been seen, is divided into three parts by the scalenus anticus, and so is the vein, although the vem Ues in front of the muscle, while the artery is behind; but