PRACTICAL ANATOMY 284 circularis], of which, of course, there are three parts, anterior, posterior, and superior. The surface of the island has convolutions radiating fan- wise from its apex; the anterior four or five are short (gyri breves), while the posterior one or two are longer (gyri longi), and these two sets are separated from one another by a sulcus centralis insulce, which has the same direction as that of the Sylvian fissure (see Fig. 126). On the SURFACE of the frontal lobe look for the precentral sulcus lying about half an inch in front of and parallel to the central fissure of Rolando. Between the two lies the precentral gyrus [g. centralis anterior], which, as has been already indicated, is a part of the brain of extreme practical interest on account of the important centres con- tained in it. The rest of the surface of the frontal lobe, in front of the precentral sulcus, is divided into three horizontal convolutions, the topper, middle, and loioer frontal gyri, the two former being very often subdivided by secondary horizontal sulci. The posterior part of the inferior frontal gyrus includes the frontal and part of the fronto-parietal opercula, and on the left side this part contains a part at least of the motor speech centre, and is often known as Broca's Convolution. On tlte surface of the parietal lobe the Post-central Gyrus [g. centralis posterior] runs up parallel to and just behind the central fissure of Rolando, and its lower end is continuous with the posterior part of the fronto-parietal operculum. It is bounded posteriorly by the post-central sulcus, which sometimes has a break about its middle. Running horizontally backwards from near the middle of the post-central sulcus is the Intra-parietal sulcus [s. inter- parietalis], which divides the rest of the parietal lobe into a supra-parietal and an infra-parietal lobule. When the post- central sulcus is in tAVo parts, this intra-parietal sulcus joins the lower of the two. Posteriorly it very often runs into another sulcus situated in the occipital lobe and called the