272 PRACTICAL ANATOMY this kind, though few students have the time or skill to make one for themselves. A very good idea, however, of the positions of the canals may be gained from sections, especially if they are compared with a museum specimen. It will be noticed that the three canals lie in different planes, the external being horizontal, the superior nearly coronal, while the posterior is nearly sagittal, and that each of them has an ampulla or dilatation at one end. In this ampulla the membranous canal enlarges so much that it fills the whole space, a thing which it does not nearly do elsewhere in the bony canal, and it is here too that it re- ceives its nerve supply. The openings of the bony canals into the vestibule have been noticed already, but, since their arrangement is difficult to remember, they may be reviewed with advantage. The first thing is to notice clearly that the superior and posterior canals join together and have a common opening, called the crus commune, into the apex or postero-internal extremity of the vestibule, and that this common termina- tion is the non-ampuUated end of both tubes. Then remember that the superior canal is the coronal one, and that it is marked on the upper border of the petrous bone by an elevation for a brain sulcus. Strictly speaking, the canal has a rather different direc- tion to this elevation, but, if this is remembered, the latter serves as a useful guide to the former (see Fig. 122). When its horizontal course is followed, one is not surprised to find that its ampuUated extremity opens into the roof of the vestibule near the base (outer wall) of the latter. The section made through the vestibule on the left side parallel with the upper border of the petrous bone cuts the superior semicircular canal quite close to the anterior surface of that bone, and a piece of wire can be pushed through it quite easily. The -posterior semicircular canal after leaving the crus commune curves backwards and downwards in the compact