358 PRACTICAL ANATOMY few small twigs should be looked for in the superficial fascia near the middle line ; they are derived from the small sciatic nerve. In the lower half of the space the small sciatic nerve itself will be found in the superficial fascia near the middle line, having pierced the deep fascia immediately below the line of the knee-joint. The External Saphenous Vein [v. saphena parva], which lies in the same region, will often serve as a useful guide to the nerve. At or near the spot where the small sciatic nerve pierces the deep fascia to become subcutaneous, the external saphenous vein, ceasing to be subcutaneous, sinks through the deep fascia to join the popliteal vein. In many cases, however, the vein does not end as here described, but is traceable for a variable distance in the superficial fascia of the back of the thigh. A few small arterial twigs will be seen piercing the deep fascia and rami- fying in the superficial fascia covering the space. Remove the superficial fascia while retaining the vessels and nerves, thereby exposing the dense popliteal fascia, the fibres of which run in different directions but on the whole transversely. It is this fascia which keeps the boun- daries of the space together, and which accounts for the convexity of the surface in the undissected state. Cut through the popliteal fascia in the median line of the limb and turn it aside, thereby exposmg the fatty areolar tissue in Avhich the vessels and nerves lie. Lying close to the inner side of the tendon of the biceps is the External Popliteal nerve [n. perona3US communis], which should first be found. To the inner side of this, lying almost in the mid line of the limb, the Internal Popliteal nerve [n. tibialis] should next be identified. Now clean the two popliteal nerves from above downward, taking every precaution not to cut their branches. It is not a bad plan to place a pair of forceps under the upper part of the nerve, thereby raising it and making its branches more evident. Any small arteries met in the dissection should be