436 PRACTICAL ANATOMY The posterior crucial ligament [lig. cruciatum posterius] has its lower attachment to the posterior margin of the head of the tibia, from which it runs very much forwards and also upwards and inwards to the outer surface of the internal condyle at the front of the inner side of the intercond34ar notch. It will thus be seen that, whether these crucial ligaments are looked at from the front or side, they form an X, and the spine of the tibia fits into the lower j\ of the X. Dissect away the posterior ligament of the knee-joint from the posterior crucial ligament, and notice that there is no synovial membrane between them, but that an oblique band from the back part of the external semilunar cartilage runs up behind the posterior crucial ligament to the internal condyle. This is known as the ligament of Wrisherg, and must not be confused with another oblique band which sometimes passes from the same semilunar cartilage to the internal condyle in front of the posterior crucial ligament— the ligament of Humphry. Now remove the external condyle altogether by cutting through the outer part of the capsule, the tendon of the popliteus, and the anterior crucial ligament close to the femur. The whole of the external semilunar cartilage [meniscus lateralis] will now be seen from above as a horse-shoe-shaped pad of fibro-cartilage with three surfaces. The upper surface is concave to adapt it to the convex conayle, for which it forms a socket, while the lower surface is flat to glide on the cartilage-covered head of the tibia. The peripheral or marginal surface is narrow, and rests against the tendon of the popliteus and the inferior external articular artery. The two horns or cornua of the crescent attach the carti- lage to the tibia just in front and behind the spine. Cut the cartilage right across just in front of the place where the popliteus crosses it; this will show its triangular section, and also that it is bound to the margin of the head of the tibia by a