PRACTICAL ANATOMY 94 the more important relation. The origin of these muscles from the back of the manubrium sterni cannot be seen at pre- sent, but the whole of the length of the sterno-hyoid is quite evident, and should be dissected up to its insertion into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. As it runs up, its inner border gradually approaches that of its fellow of the opposite side, while the inner borders of the two sterno- thyroids diverge so that an elongated lozenge-shaped space is left in the mid line in which the trachea, the isthmus of the thyroid gland and the larynx are exposed. Now cut and reflect the sterno-hyoid, looking out carefully for its nerve, which enters it rather low down. The insertion of tlie sterno-thyroid is now visible, and is seen to be into the obUque line of the thyroid cartilage. Be careful to find its nerve, and look for a possible communication between this and the phrenic nerve. The anterior attachment or insertion of the omo-hyoid muscle, just at the side of that of the sterno-hyoid, should now be made out, and the point where the muscle or its tendon crosses the carotid artery determined. It is usually about the level of the cricoid cartilage. Notice too that the central tendon of the omo-hyoid is only bound down to the back of the clavicle and first rib by a slightly thickened loop of the deep cervical fascia, and not, as in the case of the digastric, by some of its own fibres. The Sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery is a mere muscular twig and of no practical importance. The Superior thyroid Vein [V. thyreoidea superior] re- turns the blood from the upper part of the thyroid gland and larynx to the internal jugular vein; it often joins the common facial vein before opening. The Middle thyroid Vein crosses in front of the common carotid lower down, to open into the internal jugular, but it is often wanting. Now look for the descendens hypoglossi nerve [ramus descendens hypoglossi], running down in front of the common