PRACTICAL ANATOMY 398 [n. peronreus profundus] and vessels will be seen. These vessels and nerve should be carefully cleaned and their branches followed. In doing this the interosseous membrane, which passes between the tibia and fibula, will come into view. The Tibialis Antictis muscle arises from the external tuberosity and outer surface of the tibia in its upper two- thirds. Its tendon of insertion passes deep to the two bands of the anterior annular ligament, and will be traced later to its destination. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve, which enters the outer surface of the muscle near its middle. The vascular supply of the muscle is derived from the anterior tibial artery. One branch from this artery is more constant in position than are the others. It arises immediately after the artery has appeared through the interosseus membrane, and runs upwards into the sub- stance of the muscle, being known as the Anterior Tibial Recxirrent artery. Near its termination it is accompanied by a branch given off from the external popliteal nerve immedi- ately before it divides, and known as the recurrent articular branch. It helps to supply the tibialis anticus muscle, and also furnishes fine twigs to the superior tibio-fibular and knee-joints. The Extensor longus digitorum muscle arises from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula ;^ its tendon passes doAvnwards deep to the anterior annular liga- ment. Its nerve and arterial supply are derived from the anterior tibial nerve and artery. To its outer side in the lower part, and indistinctly separable from it, is Wie peroneus tertius muscle, which takes origin from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula. Its nerve and blood supply are derived from the same source as are those of the extensor longus digitorum, of which it is an extra insertion only found in man. ' To the inner side of this latter muscle, between it and the tibialis anticus, lies the extensor proprius hamccis muscle, which arises from the middle two-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula. The nerve and arteries supply-