137 THE PTEKYGOID REGION All of these, namely, the deep temporal, long buccal, masseteric and the nerve to the external pterygoid, have been seen already, and simply need tracing back. The long buccal nerve passes between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and, unlike the rest, is sensory. The ascending branches of the first part of the internal maxillary artery, the tympanic, middle, and small meningeal, should now be traced up to their respective foramina. Just behind the foramen spinosum, where the middle meningeal disappears, is the spine of the sphenoid, and from the posterior part of this the long internal lateral ligament of the jaw [L. spheno-mandibulare] runs downwards, widening out as it goes, to the lower margin of the inferior dental canal and to the lingula, situated just in front of this. Between it and the neck of the condyle, the first part of the internal maxillary artery and its accompanying vein run, while at its lower part the inferior dental nerve lies between it and the ramus of the jaw; the mylo-hyoid branch of this nerve should be looked for, and usually Avill be seen to pierce the lower attachment of the ligament. This so called long internal lateral ligament probably has nothing, either morphologically or physiologically, to do with the capsule of the joint. In the antero-inferior part of the space exposed by the removal of the ramus is the internal pterygoid muscle, the upper or deep head of which can be seen rising from both ^Falls of the pterygoid fossa and from the tuberosity of the palate, which fits in between the two plates. The lower or superficial head, which is quite small, comes from the tuberosities of the maxilla and palate. The fibres run down- wards, backwards and outwards to the inner side of the jaw, • between the angle and inferior dental foramen, though this will be better seen later when the jaw is turned up. The upper border of the muscle should be carefully defined, because just at the point where the lingual nerve comes in contact with it, is the place to look for the junction