375 THE THIGH This opening, as ah-eady stated, has its centre an inch or so below and external to the pubic spine. It is somewhat crescentic in shape, the concavity of the crescent being directed inward and the horns being situated above and below. The opening is to some extent obscured until a thin fascia which covers it—the cribriform fascia—has been re- moved. Passing through the opening, in addition to the internal saphenous vein, are a few small blood-vessels and a number of lymphatics. The opening is of great practical importance, for through it a femoral hernia passes on its way to the surface (see Fig. 162). Through the deep fascia the boundaries of the triangular depression—Scarpa's triangle [trigonum femorale]—will now be seen. The base is formed by the ligament of Poupart; the apex is below and internal. From the apex there passes, upward and inward, the inner border of the adductor longus, and upward and obliquely outward, the inner border of the sartorius. The deep fascia should now be incised along the boundary lines of this triangle and removed, care being taken to preserve the subcutaneous structures already dissected. In this way Scarpa's triangle will be opened up and its con- tents readily found. In all regions identification of the separate structures should precede their complete dissection, and this is particularly true in this instance. The long saphenous vein will be the best guide to the common femoral vein into which it opens. As soon as this latter vein has been identified, take one of the superficial arteries, and, by following it, the common femoral artery will be found. Next take the middle cutaneous nerve, and by tracing it upwards the anterior crural nerve, lying to the outside of the femoral artery, will be reached. An effort should now be made to find the nerve to the Pectineus, for if it is not found now it is liable to be cut in the further dissection of the part. Gently insinuate a finger of one hand to the outer side of the femoral artery and pull that vessel inwards, while with a finger of the other hand the