SIS THE BRAIN- fissure runs downwards and a little forwards and joins the CALCAEiNE FISSURE, wliicli is running nearly horizontally forwards. Between them these two fissures mark off a wedge- shaped area known as the cuneus. The junction of the internal parieto-ocoipital fissure with the calcarine divides the latter into pre- and post-calcarine fissures, and of these the pre-ealcarine, which is the deeper of the two, runs forwards just below the isthmus and ends in the hippocampal gyrus, splitting the posterior end of this gyrus into an upper limb continuous with the isthmus and lower continuous with the gyrus lingualis. Broadly speaking, the internal surface of the occipital lobe is the site of the higher visual cejitre. This gyrus lingualis lies just below the whole length of, the calcarine fissure, as far back as the occipital pole. The COLLATERAL FISSURE runs parallel to and below the calcarine, but is prolonged farther forward, thus forming the lower limit of the gyrus lingualis behind and of the hippocampal convolution in front. It generally ends below the front part of the last-named gyrus, from which the uncus curves back, and this part of the hippocampal gyrus, somewhat enlarged and often known as the caput hippocampi, is marked off" anteriorly by the incisura temporalis, which has a backward concavity and occasionally runs into the collateral fissure. Below the collateral fissure is the inferior temporal gyrus. On turning the brain round it will noAv be noticed that there are five more or less distinct longitudinal gyri in the temporal lobe which are numbered from the Sylvian fissure. The first, second, and third are seen on the external (lateral) surface of the brain, the second, third, and fourth on the inferior surface, while the fourth and fifth are on the internal (medial) surface. The fifth is the hippocampal gyrus between the collateral and dentate fissures, and so, strictly speaking, part of the limbic rather than the temporal lobe (see section of brain on p. 340).