PRACTICAL ANATOMY 386 the dee}) division of ihe Obturator Nerve lying in front of it. From this division are derived the branches to the adductor magnus, the genicuhxte branch already mentioned, and a branch to the obturator externus. This last branch is not at present exposed, lying, as it does, deep to the obturator externus muscle. Clean the Addicctor Magnus from origin to insertion, and note that it arises from the pubic arch and the outer part of the inferior surface of the tuber ischii, and that it is inserted into the femur along a line -which, beginning above, close to the gluteal ridge, passes down to the upper part of the internal supra-condylar ridge, from whence it runs, by means of a fibrous arch, to the adductor tubercle. The upper border of the muscle should be very carefully defined, as it lies in close proximity to the lower border of the obturator externus, the origin of which, from the external surface of the obturator membrane, may be exposed by dividing the pectineus. After this its tendon should be traced behind the neck of the femur to the digital fossa. By the above dissection a narrow strap-like muscle, the Adductor Gracilis, will have been exposed, descending verti- cally along the inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the body of the pubis and the pubic arch to the median side of the adductor brevis. Its insertion will be seen later. A nerve has been already traced to it from the superficial division of the obturator. The origin of the Sartorius muscle must next be examined. It arises from the anterior superior iliac spine, and from the anterior border of the ilium, a little below the spine. The muscle should be divided about its middle, and turned upAvards and downwards. The Quadriceps Extensor Cruris muscle is now exposed, and should be carefully cleaned. In this procedure it is best to beo'in by following the branches of the anterior crural nerve to°the different divisions of the muscle. The quadriceps extensor consists of four more or less separate portions : the rectus femoris, vastus externus, vastus iuternus, and crureus.