THE THIGH 371 Saphenous, and will be found passing upwards and slightly forwards from the inner side of the knee to end by piercing the deep fascia through a large but somewhat indistinct opening—the Saphenous Opening—the centre of which is about an inch and a half below and external to the pubic spine. Entering the long saphenous vein from below, there will be usually seen two large tributaries, one from the antero-external aspect of the thigh—the anterior saphenous —the other from the postero-internal aspect—the posterior saphenous. The position of the internal saphenous vein and its relation to these two tributaries should be carefully noted, for the vein is not infrequently ligatured, or a portion of it excised, in the treatment of varicose veins. Entering the vein from above are three small veins, the superficial external pudic [v. pudenda externa superficialis], the superficial epi- gastric, and the superficial circumflex iliac, from within outward. The veins should be merely exposed, as it is not advisable to clean them thoroughly until the other structures are identified. With the three above-named tributaries of the internal saphenous vein the student will have no difE- culty in recognising small corresponding arteries—the super- ficial external pudic, the superficial epigastric, and the superficial circumflex iliac. At a lower level and on a deeper plane than the first of these arteries, another may be seen close to the inner Hmit of the area exposed; it is the deep external pudic artery [a. pudenda externa profunda]. A more difficult task faces the student in the dissection of the superficial nerves, since not only are they small, but are liable to^ be mistaken for lymphatic vessels or strands of fascia. It is clearly important that he should know the exact spot in which to look for the particular nerves. ^ The Ilio-inguinal nerve Avill be found close to the pubic spine, and to the outer side of the spermatic cord, which is usually exposed at the upper and inner angle of the dissec- tion. It is distributed to the skin of the scrotum and root of the penis in the male as well as to that part of the skin of