THE FACE 113 covering a good deal of the forehead and cheek. Its fibres are usually described as formmg concentric rings from the internal orbital process of the frontal bone to the nasal pro- cess of the maxilla, but in a favourable subject a good dis- sector will notice that the continuity of the fibres in the rings is more apparent than real, and it is probable that there argLji^per^^uter^d sets of jfibres which! closely interlace where they meet. The olitef^fibres are wholly attached to the skin, and make the characteristic "crow's feet" wrinkles when they contract. The palpebral or lid fibres are very pale, and run from the internal to the external tarsal ligament in both lids. Very carefully dissect the muscle away, and in doing so notice that itjs blended with.. thefrontalis and_corrugator supereiliijniiscles. In the Eye- ^^S^some loose areolar tissue lies deep to the orbicularis, and this offers very little resistance to dropsical or other effusions, so that the lower eyelid is one of the first places in which dropsy shows itself. On removing the palpebral portion of the orbicularis pal- pebrarum and the subjacent cellular tissue, a Tarsal Plate [tarsus superior et inferior] of firm fibrous tissue is seen form- mg a stiff-ening to each eyelid. Each is crescentic in form with the concavity of the crescent turned towards the free niargm of the lid. The convexity of each is attached to the orbital margin by the Palpebral Fascia, and, where the horns of the two crescents meet, the internal and external Tarsal Ligaments are found binding these to the sides of the orbit, and also representing the lines of union of the palpebral fascia. It will thus be seen that the ' tarsal p ates palpebral fascia, and tarsal ligaments are merely diff-erentiated parts of one fibrous sheet. The internal tarsal igament is stronger than the outer, and is also known as the tendo ocu^^; just behind it lies the Lacrimal sac ml make a vertical cut right through the upper eyelid and notice how the levator palpebr^ superiorisTendon omln^ forwa^rds^from inside the orbit, blends with the pa^pS H