INTRACRANIAL REGION 79 is a little triangular depression in the dura mater which receives the posterior end of the vermis of the cerebellum. The Meningeal Arteries, if they are fully injected, show quite well through the dura mater; it is, however, of the first importance to realise that they lie outside on the cranial aspect of that membrane. The anterior meningeal artery is a branch of the anterior ethmoidal which runs across the cribriform plate from the anterior ethmoidal foramen to the nasal sht at the side of the crista galli. Dissect the dura mater from over the cribriform plate to expose this artery, which will be found running with the second intracranial portion of the nasal nerve (its first intracranial portion has been studied in the cavernous sinus). The middle meningeal artery enters the skull at the foramen spinosum, where its close relation to the exit of the third division of the fifth nerve should be carefully noted. It runs upwards and forwards, grooving the great wing of the sphenoid as a rule. Some little distance below the pterion it divides into anterior and posterior branches, the former running up to the pterion, which corresponds to a point on the side of the living head two fingers'-breadth (1^ inch) above the middle of the zygoma, and then generally sinks into a tunnel in the parietal bone, so that in trephining at this point it may be unavoidably cut. The posterior branch runs back across the top of the squamous bone, and reaches the parietal about the middle of its lower border. The rest of its course was seen on first removing the skulhcap. It may be here noted once more that the grooves in the skull usually attributed to the meningeal arteries are reaUy formed by their accompanying veins. Clear away some of the dura mater near the foramen spinosum in order to see this artery more clearly, and at the same time to notice how much more firmly the membrane is bound down to the base of the skull than to the vault. The small meningeal artery enters the skull through the