PRACTICAL ANATOMY 200 side, while on tlie other the bony attachments and relations of the intraorbital structures may be preserved. On the left side chisel or trephine a hole through the orbital roof, and then with bone forceps, chisel and Hey's saw cut away piecemeal the whole of the orbital roof. As the antero-internal part is approached it will probably be noticed that the frontal air sinus extends into the roof of the orbit, so that a perforating wound from the orbit need not necessarily open up the anterior cranial fossa. The anterior part of the roof must be cut through with the tenon saw, and in doing this make the outer cut slope down and in, so as to give as much room as possible for the subsequent dissection. Posteriorly remove the roof of the anterior lacerated foramen, but not that of the optic foramen. It is not at all a bad plan to remove in addition the upper part of the outer wall, keeping, however, above the foramen for the temporo-malar nerve in the malar bone. The position of this should be identified in a dry skull. The periosteum or dura mater of the orbit is easily detachable from the bony roof, and should now be carefully removed within the hmits of the dissection. The fat and cellular tissue of the orbit will thus be exposed, and the frontal and lacrimal nerves may be traced forwards in it from the first division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus. The Frontal nerve runs forwards, and about the middle of the cavity divides into the supraorbital a,nd supra- trochlear nerves. The former often sphts into an internal and external branch before it reaches the supraorbital notch or foramen, and is the outer of the two (see Fig. 96). The supratrochlear nerve runs to the inner part of the roof of the orbital aperture, and earns its name from passing just above the trochlea or pulley of the superior oblique muscle. ■ It is probable that this pulley will have been damaged in exposing the orbit, but its attachment may be found on the piece of bone removed, and it can be preserved on the other side. Just before the nerve leaves the orbit a