307 THE BRAm Just above it and forming its upper boundary is the tip of the tela chorioidea, to be noticed later. A little below the foramen of Monro, but in front of the fornix, is the section of the anterior commissv/re, while the concavity of the fornix arches round the front of the optic thalamus, which is here forming the lateral wall of the third ventricle. The thalamus is joined to its fellow of the opposite side by the middle or soft commissure, which differs from the anterior in being formed of grey instead of white matter. Where the fornix Hes behind the anterior commissure its two anterior pillars [columnte fornicis] have quite separated from one another, and the knife has passed between them; but above this point they converge, and where the corpus callosum and fornix come into contact the anterior pillars have joined one another to form the body of the fornix, which, of course, has been divided longitudinally. Farther back the two halves of the fornix diverge again to form the posterior pillars [crura fornicis], and either of these may be traced downwards and backwards by drawing the corpus callosum and optic thalamus gently apart. The Third Ventricle.—The section now being studied gives a good idea of the general shape of this cavity. It is little more than a median slit the lateral walls of which are formed by the optic thalami. It has in addition a roof, a floor, an anterior and a posterior wall. The roof is formed by the reflexion of the pia mater, known as the tela chorioidea or velum interpositum (see Fig. 137, Ch.Pl.) which is pushed in from the back of the brain between the splenium and corpora quadrigemina. Its an- terior end has been noticed as the upper boundary of the foramen of Monro, while laterally it is attached to the stria pinealis [habenula] on each side, a fine white band which lies at the junction of the roof and lateral wall of the ventricle, and may be traced back to the pineal body (see Fig. 136). It should be clearly understood that the whole of the