PEACTICAL ANATOMY 208 orbit. It reaches this by passing between the superior oblique and internal rectus muscles, after which it runs forwards to the upper and inner part of the orbital aperture, where it divides into its three terminal branches, nasal [A. dorsalis nasi], palpebral [A. palpebralis medialis], and frontal, all of which have been studied in the dissection of the scalp and face (see Fig. 97). While the artery is still on the outer side of the nerve it gives off a lacrimal branch for the gland and a retinal branch [A. centralis retinae], which pierces the optic nerve below and externally about I inch from the eyeball. As this artery is the only supply of the retina, any obstruction to it by embolism or pressure must cause blindness. Whilst crossing the optic nerve the ophthalmic artery gives oflf two long and five or six short ciliary branches, which pierce the sclerotic round the entry of the optic nerve; the latter supplying the choroid coat and ciliary processes, the former the iris. About the same place the supraorbital artery comes off and accompanies the frontal and supraorbital nerves to the forehead. Muscular branches of great variabihty should be looked for, and are of special importance, because dehcate twigs, known as the anterior ciharies, run from them along the tendons of the muscles to the front of the eyeball; here, after givmg off conjunctival twigs which have a tortuous course in the conjunctiva, they pierce the sclerotic to reach the iris, ■where they anastomose with the long ciharies. The anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries enter their respective canals and supply the mucous membrane of the ethmoidal cells; the anterior ethmoidal accompanies the nasal nerve into the anterior cranial fossa. In reviewing these arteries it will be noticed that four, the retinal, long, short and anterior ciharies, supply the eyeball solely; two, the muscular and lacrimal, supply the other intraorbital structures; while six, the supraorbital, two ethmoidals, nasal, frontal, and palpebral, go to parts outside the orbit.