351 THE GLUTEAL REGION from a dense superficial aponeurosis known as the gluteal fascia, a part of the fascia lata of the thigh. The muscle can only be separated from this fascia by cutting through the muscular fibres of origin. The muscle is inserted into the diagonal line which runs downwards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. Clean the surface and borders of the muscle as well as possible, and note that the posterior fibres are inserted highest on the ridge (Fig. 155). Below the pyriformis will be found the tendon of the dbUbrator internus mtoscle with the small superior and inferior gemelli muscles along its upper and lower borders. The three structures, traced outwards, end in a common tendon which is inserted into the great trochanter immedi- ately in front of the tendon of the pyriformis. Traced inwards the obturator internus tendon can be seen to pass into the pelvis through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, whereas the superior and inferior gemelli stop at the ischial spine and ischial tuberosity respectively from which they take their origin. It is not infrequent to find the muscular fibres of the gemelli conjoined with each other and with the tendon of the obturator internus from their origin to their insertion. In such a case it may be necessary to cut through the fibres of the gemelli before the obturator tendon is exposed. In cleaning up these muscles the nerves supplying them should be dissected out, if this has not already been done. The nerve to the obturator internus gives off the nerve to the superior gemellus, while the nerve to the quadratus femoris has a common origin with that for the inferior gemellus. Below the inferior gemellus lies the Quadratus Femoris, a muscle measuring a httle over an inch from its superior to its inferior border. Its fibres are parallel and run horizontally from the outer border of the tuber ischii to the back of the femur below the mid point of the intertrochanteric line. Its nerve, already noted, enters the muscle on its deep aspect after passing deep to the obturator internus and gemelli. Below the quadratus femoris lies the Adductor