373 THE THIGH limb. They usually pierce the deep fascia about five inches below Poupart's ligament. In finding these nerves the inci- sions into the superficial fascia should be made in the line of the nerves, viz. vertically. The patellar branch of the long Saphenous Nerve may be recognised by the fact that, to become cutaneous, it usually pierces the lower part of the sartorius muscle. If the nerves just mentioned, viz. the anterior divisions of the internal and external cutaneous nerves, the middle cutaneous nerve, and the patellar branch of the long saphenous nerve, be traced to their termination, they will be found to form a delicate plexus in front of the patella—the so-called Patellar Plexus (see Fig. 161). The Lymphatic Vessels and Nodes should next be ex- amined. No doubt many of the lymphatic vessels will have been met in the dissection of the superficial nerves. They are found in all parts of the superficial fascia, and are traceable to the Superficial Inguinal Nodes or Glands [lympho-glandulse subinguinales], which are arranged more or less uniformly around the saphenous opening. These nodes are usually divided into a horizontal and a vertical group; the former lie just below Poupart's ligament and are from two to five in number. They drain the skin of the genital organs, the lower part of the abdomen and the buttock, while the vertical set usually forms two parallel rows, one large node being almost invariably found between the internal and anterior saphenous veins. These drain the lower extremity, and are so constantly to be felt through the skm that they are used by many surgeons as guides to the saphenous vein. The superficial fascia may now be removed, preservino- as far as possible the superficial vessels and nerves. The deep fascia now exposed is remarkable for its tendi- nous nature ; it is known as the Fascia Lata, and it surrounds the thigh in its whole circumference like a tight-fitting sleeve. It has a number of small apertures for the vessels