187 THE PHARYNX cuneiform cartilage. This may sometimes be felt between the finger and thumb on deep pressure. The outhne of the arytenoid cartilages is quite obscured by the muscle and mucous membrane which covers them, but at their upper ends, where the aryteno-epiglottidean folds join them, the little cornicula laryngis project back- ward and may easily be felt. At the side of each aryteno-epiglottidean fold, between it and the top of the thyroid cartilage, is the sinus pyriformis [recessus piriformis], the narrow end or stalk of which points downwards. This is another place into which laryngeal instruments may be passed by the beginner in trying to reach the vocal cords, and it is also a favourite site for the lodafment of foreign bodies which have been inhaled. Deep to the mucous membrane in the floor of this sinus the internal laryngeal nerve hes, a fact which may easily be demonstrated by pulling on the nerve externall}'' while the tip of the forefinger is placed in the sinus pyriformis. Below the arytenoid cartilages the signet part of the cricoid ring forms the anterior wall of the pharynx, but it is covered by muscles and, of course, by mucous membrane. At the lower level of the cricoid the pharynx narrows into the oesophagus. After the anterior wall of the pharynx has been studied, the head should be divided by a sagittal section, a little to one side of the m,id line. As the object of this is to facilitate the study of the nasal cavity as well as of the pharynx, it is well to notice to which side the septum of the nose bulges, since it is hardly ever quite median, and to make the section correspond to the concave side. A good deep tenon saw should be used, and if one is available in which the back can be lifted up when the saw is deeply engaged, a true section will be more easily made. Anatomical saws should have small teeth, and if this is the case very little damage will be done to the soft parts. Let the cut pass just on one side of the crista galli, and run