343 THE GLUTEAL REGION beneath a dimple at the level of the second sacral spine. Close to the inner end of the natal crease the rounded pro- minence of the ischial tuberosity can be felt, but the pressure must be made from below and not through the mass of the gluteus maximus muscle. A straight Hne from this tuberosity to the anterior superior iliac spine passes about midway immediately above the great trochanter of the femur, the position of which is further indicated by a shallow depression on the surface. Reflexion of Skin.—Make an incision, if it has not already been made by the dissector of the abdomen, along the iliac crest from the anterior to the posterior spine, and continue it downwards and backwards to the tip of the coccyx, from which point the incision should run downwards and outwards to the outer border of the thigh midway between the great trochanter and the knee. The skin en- closed by these incisions should now be reflected outwards. The underlying fascia is loaded with fat, and in con- sequence the numerous small cutaneous nerves are not readily found unless the student knows exactly where to look. Let a finger be passed along the iliac crest until a distinct thickening is felt two inches or so behind the anterior superior iliac spine, a thickening known as the tubercle of the crest. Make an incision downwards and slightly outwards, through the superficial fascia, from this tubercle, when in all probability a few nerve filaments will be found which, if traced upwards, will lead to a relatively large nerve which pierces the deep fascia just above the tubercle on the iliac crest; it is the iliac branch of the ilio- hypogastric nerve [ramus cutaneus lateralis nervi ilio-hypo- gastrici]. Another incision parallel with the last, but an inch anterior, should be made exposing the lateral cutaneous or iliac branch of the last thoracic nerve (see Fig. 154.). An incision should next be carried vertically downwards from the iliac crest, beginning where the outer border of the erector spinas muscle can be felt, three inches or so from the