- . ■■ . ••• .• $ ■ r •• :> • . • • . : ■ : . ■ • ■Pent land's Students Manuals. MANUAL OF SURGERYNUNQUAM AI-IUD NATURA, ALIUD SAP1ENTIA DICIT.MANUAL OF SURGERY BY ALEXIS THOMSON, F.E.C.S.En. ASSISTANT SUKCIRON EDINBURGH ROYAL INFIRMARY; SURGEON TO THE DEACONESS HOSPITAL, EDINBURGH AND ALEXANDER MILES, F.R.C.S.Ed. ASSISTANT SURGEON EDINBURGH ROYAL INFIRMARY SURGEON TO LEITH HOSPITAL REGIONAL SURGERY SECOND EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGED WITH 203 ILLUSTRATIONS, MOSTLY WOOD ENGRA VINOS EDINBURGH AND LONDON YOUNG J. PENTLAND 1907EDINBURGH : PRINTED FOR YOUNG J. PENTLAND, II TEVIOT PLACE AND 21 WARWICK LANE, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON, E.C., BY R. AND R. CLARK, LIMITED All rights reservedv CONTENTS.. CHAPTER I. PAGJD The Scalp ....... l CHAPTER II. The Cranium and its Contents .. . . . 9 CPIAPTER III. Injuries of the Skull ...... 40 CHAPTER IV. Diseases of the Brain and Membranes ... 52 CHAPTER V. Diseases of the Cranial Bones .... 82 CHAPTER VI. The Spine and Cord ...... 85 CHAPTER VII. Diseases of the Spine and Cord .... 104.CONTENTS. VI CHAPTER VIII. PAGE Deviations of the Spinal Column .... 126 The Face, CHAPTER IX. Orbit, and Lips ..... 135 CHAPTER X. The Mouth, Fauces, and Pharynx .... 154 The Jaws, CHAPTER XI. including the Teeth and Gums . . . 165 CHAPTER XII. The Tongue ....... 185 CHAPTER XIII. The Salivary Glands ...... 198 The Ear CHAPTER XIV. .206 CHAPTER XV. The Nose and Naso-Pharynx ..... 221 CHAPTER XVI. The Neck ........ 236 CHAPTER XVII. The Thyroid Gland 252CONTENTS. vii CHAPTER XVIII. PAGE The (Esophagus ....... 263 CHAPTER XIX. The Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi . . . 277 CHAPTER XX. The Chest ....... 291 CHAPTER XXI. The Breast ....... 318 CHAPTER XXII. The Abdomen and Pelvis ..... 342 CHAPTER XXIII. The Peritoneum ....... 355 CHAPTER XXIV. The Vermiform Appendix ..... 376 CHAPTER XXV. Hernia . . . . . . . 396 CHAPTER XXVI. The Stomach and Duodenum ..... 433 CHAPTER XXVII. The Intestines 465viii CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXVIII. PAGE The Liver, Gall-Bladder, and Bile-Ducts . . . 516 CHAPTER XXIX. The Pancreas and Spleen ..... 540 CHAPTER XXX. Abdominal and Pelvic Conditions peculiar to Women . 552 CHAPTER XXXI. The Rectum and Anus ...... 566 CHAPTER XXXII. The Kidney and Ureter ..... 608 CHAPTER XXXIII. The Urinary Bladder ...... 653 CHAPTER XXXIV The Urethra ....... 685 CHAPTER XXXV. The Prostate and Seminal Vesicles . . . 711 CHAPTER XXXVI. The Male Genital Organs ..... 731 APPENDIX. Anesthetics . . . . . . .774 INDEX 785LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. FIG. . 1. Ulcerating Wens on Scalp, . . 2. Cerebral Centres, ...... 3. Diagram of the Course of Motor and Sensory Nerve Fibres, . 4. Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation, 5. Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation, 6. To illustrate various operations on the skull, 7. Method of performing Lumbar Puncture, 8. Contusion and Laceration of Brain. (After Hutchinson), 9. Middle Meningeal Haemorrhage. (After Hutchinson), 10. Fracture of Skull produced by an oval stone fired from a gun, 11. Depressed and Comminuted Fracture of Right Parietal Bone, 12. Pond Fracture of Frontal Bone, produced during delivery, . 13. Transverse Fracture through Middle Fossa of Base of Skull, 14. Diagram of Extra-Dural Abscess, .... 15. Diagram of Sub-Dural Abscess, .... 16. Diagram illustrating Sequence of Paralysis caused by abscess in temporo-sphenoidal lobe. (After Macewen), 17. Chart of case of Sinus Phlebitis following Middle Ear Disease, 18. Encephalocele, ...... 19. Hydrocephalus, ...... 20. Hernia Cerebri after operation for cerebral abscess, . 21. Patient suffering from Left Facial Paralysis , 22. Distribution of the Segments of the Spinal Cord. (After Kocher), ....... 23. Attitude of Upper Extremities in Traumatic Lesions of the Sixth Cervical Segment, ..... 24. Compression Fracture of Bodies of Third and Fourth Lumbar Vertebras, ....... 25. Traumatic Spondylitis affecting Lower Dorsal Segment of Spline, ....... 26. Fracture-Dislocation of Ninth Dorsal Vertebra, 27. Tuberculous Osteomyelitis affecting several vertebras at Dorso-lumbar Junction, ..... ix PAGE 7 10 12 14 15 16 19 30 34 42 44 45 47 54 55 59 63 67 69 74 78 92 93 100 101 102 105X LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. FIG. PAGE 28. Osseous Ankylosis of Bodies of Dorsal Vertebrae, . . 106 29. Attitude of Patient suffering from Tuberculous Disease of the Cervical Spine, . . . . . .110 30. Thomas’s Double Splint for Tuberculous Disease of Spine, . Ill 31. Attitude in Pott’s Disease of Dorso-lumbar Region of Spine, 112 32. Left Psoas Abscess, ...... 113 33. Right Iliac Abscess from disease of the Lumbar Sjiine, . 114 34. Arthritis Deformans of Spine, . . . .118 35. Advanced Degree of Arthritis Deformans, . . . 118 36. Spina Bifida, ....... 121 37. Meningo-myelocele of Cervical Spine, . . .122 38. Meningocele in Cervical Region, .... 122 39. Tail-like Appendage over Spina Bifida Occulta, . . 124 40. Adolescent Scoliosis, ...... 128 41. Scoliosis of long standing, ..... 129 42. Klapp’s four-footed Exercises for Scoliosis, . . 132 43. Head of human embryo about 29 days old. (After His), . 136 44. Simple Hare-lip, ...... 137 45. Unilateral Hare-lip with Cleft Alveolus, . . . 137 46. Double Hare-lip, ...... 138 47. Double Hare-lip with Projection of Premaxillary Bone, . 138 48. Cicatricial Contraction following Burn in Childhood, 144 49. Sarcoma of Orbit, . . . . . .147 50. Dermoid Cyst at outer angle of orbital margin, . . 148 51. Macrocheilia, . . . . . . .151 52. Advanced Epithelioma of Lower Lip, . . . 152 53. Perforation of Palate, the result of Syphilis, . . 156 54. Cicatricial Stenosis of communication between Pharynx and Naso-Pharynx, . . . . . .161 55. Epulis from Upper Jaw, ..... 171 56. Sarcoma of Upper Jaw, ..... 172 57. Dentigerous Cyst of the Upper Jaw, .... 173 58. Dentigerous Cyst of Lower Jaw containing rudimentary tooth, 174 59. Osseous Shell of Myeloma of Lower Jaw, . . . 176 60. Multiple Fracture of Lower Jaw, . . . .178 61. Four-tailed Bandage applied for Fracture of Lower Jaw, . 179 62. Unilateral Dislocation of Lower Jaw, . . . . 181 63. Sclerosing Glossitis associated with Leucoplakia, . . 1S9 64. Epithelioma of Dorsum of Tongue supervening on Chronic Superficial Glossitis, . . . . .191 65. Mixed Tumour of the Parotid, .... 204 66. Acute Suppurative Mastoiditis, .... 218 67. Rhinopliyma or Lipoma Nasi, .... 224 68. The outer wall of left Nasal Chamber, after removal of the middle turbinated body. (After Logan Turner), . 225 69. Transient Wry-neck, ...... 238LIST OF ILLUSTRATION'S. xi FIG. PAGE 70. Permanent Wry-neck, ..... 239 71. Parenchymatous Goitre, ..... 254 72. Larynx and Trachea surrounded by Goitre, . . 255 73. Section of above to show relation of Trachea to Goitre, . 255 74. Adenomatous Goitre, confined to isthmus, , . . 259 75. Exophthalmic Goitre, ..... 262 76. Radiogram of Safety-pin impacted in the Gullet and per- forating the Larynx, ..... 267 77. Diverticulum of the (Esophagus, .... 275 78. (Edema of Larynx, ...... 283 79. Papilloma of Larynx, ..... 286 80. Oblique Fracture of the Body of the Sternum, . . 295 81. Surgical Emphysema of Neck, Face, and Arm, following severe crush of Chest, ...... 297 82. Large Lipoma of Back, ..... 303 83. Diagram of Empyema, ..... 306 84. Patient using Spirometer after operation for Empyema, . 309 85. Gynecomazia, ...... 321 86. Cystic Adenoma of Right Breast, .... 332 87. Section of Breast removed for Scirrhous Cancer, . . 335 88. Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast, .... 335 89. Breast, the seat of Scirrhous Carcinoma, . . . 336 90. Advanced Ulcerating Cancer of Breast, . . . 337 91. Diagram of Sub-phrenic Abscess on Right Side, . . 372 92. Diagram of Sub-phrenic Abscess on Left Side, . . 373 93. Caecum and Appendix. (After Kelly), . . . 377 94. Gangrenous and Perforated Appendix with Concretion, . 378 95. F*cal Concretions from cases of Appendicitis, . . 379 96. Richter’s Hernia, ...... 398 97. Large irreducible Inguinal Hernia, . . . 400 98. Diagram of Reduction of Hernia en bloc, . . . 407 99. Double Oblique Inguinal Hernia, .... 410 100. Diagram of Congenital Hernia, . . . .411 101. Diagram of Hernia into the Funicular Process, . . 411 102. Diagram of Infantile Hernia, .... 412 103. Diagram of Encysted Hernia, .... 412 104. Diagram of Hernia with imperfectly descended Testis, . 413 105. Single Spiral Truss for Right Oblique Inguinal Hernia, . 413 106. Double Spiral Truss for Inguinal Hernia, . . . 414 107. Double Congenital Inguinal Hernia in boy, ret. 1 year, . 418 108. Femoral Hernia in man, set. 46, . . . 420 109. Opposite-sided Truss applied for 'Femoral Hernia, . . 421 110. Section of Umbilical Hernia, .... 424 111. Lumbar Hernia, in site of Scar of Lumbar Abscess, . 428 112. Tracing to illustrate relations of Stomach to Parietes, . 434 113. Lembert’s Suture, ...... 437LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. xii PAGE F1Q. 114. Czerny-Lembert Suture, . . . . . 438 115. Purse-string Suture, ...... 438 116. Tracing of Hour-glass Stomach in relation to Parietes, . 453 117. Hour-glass Contraction of the Stomach following Gastric Ulcer, 454 118. Tracing of prolapsed and dilated Stomach, . . 459 119. Tracing of dilated Stomach in relation to Parietes, . 461 120. End-to-end Suture of Small Intestine, . . . 468 121. Lateral Implantation of Intestine, .... 469 122. Lateral Anastomosis of Intestine, .... 469 123. Short Circuiting of Intestine—Ileo-eolostomy, . . 469 124. Tracing of dilated Colon, the result of obstruction in Sigmoid Flexure, ...... 473 125. “ Ladder Pattern ” in case of Obstruction of Bowel, . 477 126. Diaphragmatic Hernia, . . . . .479 127. Strangulation of Small Intestine by diverticulum of Small Intestine, ....... 480 128. Ileo-csecal Intussusception, ..... 485 129. Diagram of Intussusception, .... 486 130. Cross section of Intussusception, .... 486 131. Gall-Stone Obstruction of Jejunum, . . . . 491 132. Radiogram of Nail impacted in Small Intestine, . . 491 133. Boy, 8et. 10, suffering from congenital dilatation of the colon, 496 134. Congenital dilatation of the colon as seen on post-mortem examination, ...... 496 135. Malignant Stricture of Pelvic .Colon, . . . 497 136. Chronic inflammatory thickening of the Colon, . . 506 137. Portion of Small Intestine showing Multiple Strictures following on Tuberculous Ulcers, . . . 508 138. Ffecal Fistula of Small Intestine, .... 510 139. Ffecal Fistula of Small Intestine, .... 510 140. Formation of Artificial Anus in Pelvic Colon—First Stage,. 512 141. Completed Artificial Anus in Pelvic Colon, . . 512 142. Pedunculated Adenoma of Intestine, . . . 514 143. Rupture of Right Lobe of Liver, .... 517 144. The connections of the Biliary and Pancreatic Ducts. (After Zuckerkandl), ..... 524 145. Gall-Stones, ....... 528 146. Dissection to show relations of Duodenum, Pancreas, etc. (After Spalteholtz), ..... 541 147. Pancreatic Cyst between Stomach and Colon, . . 546 148. Pancreatic Cyst between Liver and Stomach, . . 546 149. Pancreatic Cyst below the Stomach, ... . 547 150. Pyosalpinx, ....... 557 151. Complete absence of the Anus. (After Tuttle), . . 568 152. Complete absence of the Rectum, (After Tuttle), . . 569LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. xiii Fia. face 153. Imperforate Anus due to persistence of the Cloacal Mem- brane. (After Tuttle), ..... 569 154. Imperforate Anus. (After Tuttle), . . .570 155. Diagram of Iscliio-rectal and Pelvi-rectal Abscesses, . 581 156. Diagram of complete Fistulas, .... 583 157. Diagram of Horse-slioe Fistula, . . . . 583 158. Diagram of Blind External Fistulas, . . . 584 159. Diagram of Blind Internal Fistulre, . . . 584 160. Protruded Internal Piles, with oedema of skin round Anus, 590 161. Complete Prolapse of Rectum, .... 603 162. Outline Diagram of Kidneys as viewed from the front. (After Stiles), ...... 609 163. Outline Diagram of Kidneys as seen from behind. (After Stiles), 610 164. Luys’ Separator in position in Bladder, . . . 612 165. Contusion of Kidney with extravasation of blood into perirenal fat, ...... 620 166. Diagrammatic Section of Hydronephrosis. (After Israel), . 624 167. The Renal Pelvis laid open to show valve at outlet. (After Israel), ....... 625 168. Hydronephrosis associated with valvular origin of Ureter, . 626 169. Bilateral Pyonephrosis with dilatation and thickening of the Ureters. (Diagrammatic), .... 631 170. Section of Pyonephrosis showing Abscess Cavities, . 632 171. Branching Uratic Calculus which formed a Cast of the Pelvis and Calyces of the Kidney, . . . 634 172. Fibro-lipomatous Kidney with Stone in Pelvis, . . 634 173. Radiogram of Stone in both Kidneys, . . . 638 174. Advanced Tuberculous Kidney showing multiple Abscess Cavities in Parenchyma, ..'... 643 175. Solitary Cyst at Upper Pole of Left Kidney, . . 649 176. Polycystic Kidney, ...... 649-. 177. Over-distended Bladder forming an Abdominal Tumour, . 654 178. Cathcart’s Apparatus for Drainage of the Bladder, . 656 179. Extroversion of the Bladder in a Female Child, . . 658 180. Pelvis from case of Extroversion of Bladder, . . 659 181. Deposition of Phosphates upon a portion of Catheter, 663 182. Fasciculated Bladder resulting from enlarged Prostate, . 665 183. Uric Stone from the Bladder, .... 671 184. Oxalate of Lime or Mulberry Calculus, . . . 672 185. Faceted Phosphatic Stones from a case of septic cystitis complicating enlarged Prostate, . . . .672 186. Hour-glass Stones, . . . . . .673 187. Diagram of Posterior Urethra in the Male, . . 686 188. Gonococci in pus from Urethra, .... 694 189. Section of enlarged Prostate, .... 712xiv LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. FIG. PAGF. 190. Section of Bladder showing uniform enlargement of Pros- tate and lengthening of Prostatic Urethra, . . 717 191. Enlargement of Prostate, ..... 718 192. Base of Bladder, showing relations of Seminal Vesicles to Prostate, Ureters, etc., . . . . .728 193. Tropical Elephantiasis of the Scrotum in a Native of Samoa, 733 194. Paraffin Cancer of Scrotum in a shale-worker, # . . 734 195. Testis, Epididymis, and Spermatic Cord, . . . 735 196. Retained Testis on left side, and imperfectly descended Testis on right, in a hoy, set. 13, . . 738 197. Tuberculous Disease of Epididymis, Testis, and Cord, . 747 198. Atrophy of Testis, ...... 757 199. Large Hydrocele of left Tunica Vaginalis in a man, set. 45, 759 200. Moderate-sized Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis, . 759 201. Transverse Section of Penis, .... 763 202. Paraphimosis in a boy, set. 6, . . . .765 203. Faceted Calculi from Sac of Prepuce, . . .768MANUAL OF SURGERYMANUAL OF SURGERY —♦— CHAPTER I. THE SCALP. Surgical anatomy—Injuries: Contusion; Ilosmatoma; Cephal-hcematoma; Wounds; Avulsion—Diseases : Inflammatory conditions ; Cystic and solid tumours ; Air-containing swellings ; Vascular tumours. Surgical Anatomy. — Between the dense, hair-bearing slcin, and the tendinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle, or epicranial apo- neurosis, is a network of firm fibrous tissue, in the meshes of which lies some dense granular fat. So intimate is the connection between these structures that they practically constitute a single layer and move together as one. The occipito-frontalis muscle with its aponeurosis ex- tends from the superciliary ridge in front to the superior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and laterally to the level of the zygoma, where it blends with the temporal fascia. It moves freely on the subjacent peri- cranium, from which it is separated by loose areolar tissue. The vascular supply of the scalp is derived from the supra-orbital, temporal, posterior auricular, and occipital arteries, the terminal branches of which ramify freely in the subcutaneous tissue before entering the dense integument. The main branches all run towards the vertex, and incisions should, as far as possible, be directed parallel to them. The venous return is through the frontal, temporal, and occipital veins. These have free communications, through the emissary veins, with the intra-cranial sinuses, and by these routes infective conditions of the scalp may readily be transmitted to the interior of the skull. The most important of the emissary veins are : the mastoid, condylar, and occipital, passing to the lateral sinus ; the parietal, which enters the longitudinal sinus ; and a branch from the nasal region which traverses the foramen caecum and enters the anterior end of the longitudinal sinus. The supra-trochlear, supra-orbital, and auriculo-temporal branches of the fifth nerve, together with the great and small occipital nerves, supply the scalp with sensation, while the muscles are supplied from the seventh cranial nerve. VOL. II—19 THE SCALP. The lymphatic vessels pass to the parotid, occipital, mastoid, and sub-maxillary groups of glands, the different areas of drainage being ill-defined. Injuries of the Scalp. Subcutaneous Injuries.—Simple Contusion of the superficial layers of the scalp may follow a blow or fall, and owing to the density of the tissues the blood effused is small in quantity and remains confined to the area directly injured. The part is firm and tender to the touch, swollen, and discoloured, being at first dark blue, and later becoming greenish-yellow. The disappear- ance of the swelling may be hastened by elastic pressure and massage. Hcematoma of the scalp results when lacerated vessels bleed into the sub-aponeurotic space. Owing to the laxity of the connective tissue in this area, the effused blood tends to diffuse itself widely, and, according to the position assumed by the patient, gravitates to the region of the eyebrow, the occiput, or the zygoma. The extent of a hsematoma and the rapidity with which it forms depend upon the size of the injured vessels, and when a large artery is torn, it sometimes happens that the swelling pulsates. Owing to the fact that the margins of the effusion are often raised and of a firm resistant character, a hsematoma of the scalp may readily be mistaken for a depressed fracture of the skull. A differential. diagnosis can usually be made by observing that the swelling is on a higher level than the rest of the skull; that the raised margin can to a large extent be dispersed by making firm, steady pressure over it with the finger; and that, on doing so, the smooth and intact surface of the skull can be recognised. When a fracture exists, the finger sinks into the depression, and the irregular edge of the bone can be felt. In doubtful cases, and particularly if cerebral symptoms are present, an exploratory incision should be made. Even large hsematomata are usually completely absorbed, but the dispersion of the clot may be hastened by massage and elastic pressure. Any small excoriation or wound of the skin must be disinfected and dressed. Sometimes blood-cysts, consisting of a connective tissue capsule filled with a yellowish-red fluid, remain, and may re- quire to be removed. These effusions are to be distinguished from the cephal-hcema- toma, in which the blood collects between the pericranium and the bone. This is oftenest seen in newly-born children as a result of pressure on the head during delivery, and is characterised bySCALP WOUNDS. 3 its limitation to one particular bone—usually the parietal—the further spread of the blood being, checked by the attachment of the periosteum at the sutures. Occasionally a permanent thickening of the edges of the bone remains after the absorption of the extravasated blood. This condition is to be diagnosed from traumatic cephal-hydrocele (p. 68). Wounds of the Scalp.—So long as a scalp wound, however extensive, is kept free from bacteria, it involves comparatively little risk to the patient; but the introduction of septic organ- isms to even the most trivial wound is fraught with danger, on account of the ease and rapidity with which infection may spread along the emissary veins to the meninges and intra-cranial sinuses. The deeper the wound, the greater is the risk. If the epicranial aponeurosis is divided, the “ dangerous area ” between it and the pericranium is opened, and if bacterial infection occurs, it may lead to widespread and dangerous suppuration. Should the wound extend through the pericranium, septic infection is more liable to spread to the bone and to the cranial contents. The usual varieties of wounds—incised, punctured, contused, and lacerated—are met with in the scalp, and they vary in degree from a simple superficial cut to complete avulsion of the scalp. For medico-legal purposes it is important to bear in mind that a scalp wound produced by the stroke of a blunt weapon, such as a stick or baton, may closely simulate a clean- cut wound. On account of the density of the integument and its close connection with the aponeurosis, scalp wounds do not gape, unless the epicranial aponeurosis is widely divided. This facilitates union in incised wounds, but interferes with drainage in the long narrow tracts which result from punctures, and which are so liable to be infected and to implicate the sub-aponeurotic space, the periosteum, or even the bone. It also favours the inclusion in the wound of a foreign body, such as the broken point of a knife, or a piece of glass. The bleeding from scalp wounds is often profuse and difficult to control, because the vessels, fixed as they are in the dense subcutaneous tissue, cannot retract and contract so as to bring about the natural arrest of haemorrhage, and it is difficult to apply forceps or ligatures to their cut ends. On account of the free arterial anastomosis in the deeper layers of the integument, large flaps of scalp will survive when replaced, even if badly bruised and torn. It is a safe rule never to cut away scalp tissue, however badly it may be lacerated, or however narrow may be the pedicle which unites it to the head.4 THE SCALP. Gunshot wounds of the scalp are usually associated with damage to the skull and brain. A spent shot, however, may pierce the scalp, and then, glancing off the bone, lodge in the soft parts (vol. i. p. 229). Complete avulsion.—In women, the scalp is sometimes torn from the cranium as a result of the hair being caught in revolving machinery. The portion removed, as a rule, consists of integument and aponeurosis with portions of muscle attached. In a few cases the pericranium also has been torn away. So long as any attachment to the intact scalp remains, the parts should be replaced, and, if asepsis is maintained, a satisfactory result may be expected. When the scalp is entirely separated, recourse should be had to primary skin-grafting by Thiersch’s method. Treatment of recent Scalp Wounds.—To ensure asepsis, the hair should be shaved from the area around the wound, and the part then thoroughly purified. Gross dirt ground into the edges of lacerated wounds is best removed by paring with scissors. Undermined flaps must be further opened up and drained—by counter-openings if necessary. When there is reason to suspect their presence, foreign bodies should be care- fully sought for. Bleeding should be arrested by forci-pressure or by ligature; when the vessels cannot be caught with forceps, the haemorrhage may be controlled by passing a needle threaded with catgut through the tissues of the scalp so as to include the bleeding vessels. The wound is stitched with horse-hair or sterilised silk, and, except in very small and superficial wounds, it is best to allow for drainage. Complications of Scalp Wounds.—The most common com- plications are those due to bacterial infection, which not only aggravates the local condition, but is apt to lead to spreading cellulitis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, or to inflammation of the intra-cranial venous sinuses. These dangerous sequelae are liable to follow infection of any scalp wound, but more especially such as implicate the sub-aponeurotic area, or the pericranium. In the integument, a small localised abscess, attended with pain and oedema of surrounding parts, may form. Pus forming under the aponeurosis is liable to spread widely, pointing above the eyebrows, in the occipital region, or in the line of the zygoma. Suppuration under the pericranium tends to be limited by the inter-sutural attachments of the membrane. Necrosis of the outer table, or even of the whole thickness of the skull, may follow, although it is by no means uncommon for large denuded areas of bone to retain their vitality.5 DISEASES; OF THE SCALP. The onset of sepsis * is indicated by throbbing pain and heat in the wound, a feeling of chilliness or the occurrence of a rigor, and tension of the stitches from cedematous swelling of the surrounding tissues. The oedema often extends to the eyelids and face; a puffiness of the eyelids, indeed, is not infrequently the first evidence of the occurrence of suppuration in the wound. Treatment.—When suppuration ehsues the stitches should at once be removed, the wound opened up and purified with peroxide of hydrogen, and packed with iodoform worsted. A moist dressing should be employed for a few days. The risks of intra-cranial complications demand that these measures should be promptly taken. Erysipelas of the scalp may originate even in wounds so trivial as to be almost invisible, or from suppurative processes in the region of the frontal sinuses or nasal fossae. On the head, erysipelas tends to be limited by the attachments of deep fasciae, and seldom spreads to the cheek or neck. Cerebral complications in the form of noisy delirium or coma are common, and symptoms of meningitis may supervene. Cellulitis from mixed infection is a common and dangerous complication of erysipelas of the scalp, and calls for free incisions (vol. i. p. 114). Diseases of the Scalp. Inflammatory Conditions.—It is not uncommon for localised abscesses to occur in the subcutaneous cellular tissue in delicate children, and such collections are not infrequently associated with chronic eczema, impetigo, or pediculi. They develop slowly and painlessly, and are only covered by a thin, bluish pellicle of skin. It is not improbable that they result from a mixed infection by pyogenic and tuberculous organisms. As a rule they heal quickly after incision and drainage, but when they are allowed to burst tedious superficial ulcers may result. Localised abscesses may also form in connection with disease of the cranial bones. Suppuration following upon injuries has already been referred to. Boils and carbuncles are not common on the hairy part of the scalp. Lupus rarely originates on the scalp, although it may spread thither from the face. Syphilitic eruptions and ulcers present the same characters on the scalp as elsewhere. Gummata may develop in the soft parts of the scalp, but more commonly they take origin in the periosteum or bone. Eczema6 THE SCALP. capitis is of surgical importance only in so far as it often forms the starting-point of infection of lymphatic glands by pyogenic and other organisms. Cystic and Solid Tumours.—A great variety of tumours and other non-inflammatory conditions is met with in the scalp, but the majority of these are of extreme rarity. Sebaceous cysts or wens are of frequent occurrence, and have already been described (vol. i. p. 367). Dermoid cysts of the scalp are most commonly situated over the position of the anterior fontanelle, in the region of the occipital protuberance, or at the outer angle of the eye (Fig. 50). As they frequently lie in a gap in the skull, they may be connected by a pedicle with the dura mater, and are liable to be mistaken for meningoceles. Serous cysts are occasionally found in the occipital region. They are believed to be meningoceles which have become shut off from the interior of the skull before birth. Adenomata originating in the sebaceous or sweat glands are sometimes multiple, of a purplish colour, and the skin covering them is thin and glistening. They show a tendency to ulcerate and fungate, giving rise to a foetid discharge, and are liable to become the seat of epithelioma (Fig. 1). They are treated by excision. Large, flat papillomata, or warts on the scalp, may be single or multiple, are of slow growth, and may become the starting- point of epithelioma. The plexiform neuroma forms a loose soft tumour situated in the course of one or more branches of the fifth nerve, especially the supra-orbital branch. In its most aggravated form the tumour hangs over the face or neck in large pendulous masses, and is described as a pachydermatocele (Y. Mott). Sarcomata usually have their origin in the bones of the skull, and only implicate the scalp secondarily. Epithelioma of the scalp (Fig. 48, vol. i.) may originate in relation to a wart, an ulcerated wen or sebaceous adenoma, or the cicatrix of a burn. It may affect comparatively young persons, may spread over a wide area, or pass deeply and involve the bone. Free and early removal is indicated. Rodent cancer may originate on the scalp, but usually spreads thither from the face. In operating for extensive tumours of the scalp the haemorrhage is sometimes formidable. It may be controlled by an elastic tourniquet applied horizontally round the head, or if, on account of the position of the tumour or from other causes, this is notDISEASES OF THE SCALP. 7 practicable, by ligature or temporary clamping of the external carotid on one or on both sides. Air-containing Swellings.—Pneumatocele Capitis.—A num- ber of cases have been recorded in which, as a result of pathologi- cal or traumatic perforations of the mastoid, and less frequently of the frontal cells, air has passed under the pericranium, and has given rise to a tense rounded tumour, resonant on percussion, and capable of being emptied by firm pressure. Such swellings Fig. 1.—Ulcerating Wens on Scalp of Woman iet. 50. Ulcer subsequently excised. exhibit neither pulsation nor fluctuation; and as they are pain- less, and give rise to almost no inconvenience, they do not call for treatment. Emphysema of the scalp may follow fractures implicating any of the air sinuses of the skull, the air infiltrating the loose cellular tissue between the pericranium and the aponeurosis, and on palpation yielding a characteristic crepitation. It usually dis- appears in a few days. Vascular Tumours.—Naevi occur on the scalp, where they present the same features as elsewhere. If placed over one ofTHE SCALP. the fontanelles, a nsevus may derive pulsation from the brain, and so simulate a meningocele. Cirsoid aneurysm is usually met with in the course of the temporal artery, and may involve the greater part of the scalp. Large, distended, tortuous, bluish vessels pulsating synchronously with the heart are seen and felt. They can be emptied by pressure, but fill up again at once on removal of the pressure. The patient complains of dizziness, headache, and a persistent rushing sound in the head. Ulceration of the skin over the dilated vessels, leading to fatal haemorrhage, may take place. They may be treated by excision, after dividing and ligaturing the larger vessels entering the swelling; or the dilated vessels may be cut across at several points and both ends ligatured. Krogius recommends the introduction of a series of subcutaneous ligatures so as to surround the whole periphery of the pulsating tumour, and so interrupt the blood flow. Ligature of the main afferent vessels, or of the external or common carotid, has been followed by recurrence, owing to the free anastomotic circulation in the scalp. In some cases electrolysis has yielded good results. Traumatic aneurysm of the temporal artery was comparatively common in the days when the practice of bleeding from this vessel was in vogue, but it is seldom met with now. Arterio-venous aneurysm may also occur in the course of the temporal artery, as a result of injury, and is best treated by complete extirpation of the segments of the vessels implicated.9 CHAPTER II. THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. Anatomy and physiology—Cerebral localisation—Operation of trephin- ing— Lumbar puncture. Head Injuries — Concussion—Cerebral irritation—Compression—Contusion and laceration of the brain, and traumatic intra-cranial haemorrhage : Middle meningeal haemor- rhage ; Haemorrhage from internal carotid and venous sinuses—Intra- cranial haemorrhage of the newly born. Cerebral oedema—Wounds of brain — After-effects of head injuries — Traumatic epilepsy and insanity—Septic complications. Surgical Anatomy.—The bones of the skull consist of an outer table which is thick, smooth, and elastic ; an inner “vitreous” table which is thin and fragile ; and an intermediate, open, piorous, and highly vascular layer—the diploe. The outer table is nourished chiefly from the pericranium, and transmits by oblique or tortuous channels ihe emissary veins. It varies greatly in thickness in different skulls, and in different parts of the same skull. The vitreous layer is smooth on its inner aspect, and is grooved by the middle meningeal and other arteries of the dura mater, and by the large venous sinuses. In the piorous substance of the diploe, branches of the middle meningeal artery anastomose freely with branches derived from the pericranial vessels. Some of its veins open into the external veins, and others into the intracranial sinuses, and they communicate with the emissary veins as these pass through the bone. This free intercommunication of veins explains the facility with which infective processes pass between the structures outside the skull and those within. The existence of the emissary veins permits of the withdrawal of blood from the interior of the skull by leeching, bleeding or cupping. The pericranium is thick and vascular, and is chiefly concerned in nourishing the outer table of the skull. It is firmly bound down along the lines of the sutures. The cranium is an irregularly ovoid cavity, the floor of which is broken up by various projections so as to form three separate foss*— anterior, middle, and posterior—in which rest respectively the frontal, temporal, and occipital lobes of the brain. The posterior fossa also contains the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla. The Membranes of the Brain.—Th(♦inside of the skull is lined by the vascular dura mater which constitutes the internal periosteum, and in10 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. it run the large intra-cranial venous sinuses. Under the dura, and separated from it by a narrow space—the sub-dural space — lies the arachno-pial membrane, which consists of a thick outer (arachnoid) layer, and a thinner, highly vascular, inner layer (pia mater). The pia mater lies in contact with the surface of the brain and passes into the larger fissures. The space between these layers—the sub - arachnoid space — is traversed by a network of fine fibrous strands, in the meshes of which the cerebro-spinal fluid circulates. Each nerve trunk as it leaves the skull or spinal canal carries with it a prolongation of each of these membranes and their intervening spaces. The membranes gradually become lost in the fibrous sheaths of the nerves, and the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces become continuous with the lymph spaces of the nerves. The cerebro-spinal fluid occupies the meshes of the sub-arachnoid space, the ventricles of the brain, and surrounds the intra-cerebral blood- Fig. 2.—Cerebral Centres according to Griissbaum and Sherrington. Brain exposed by Wagner’s Osteoplastic Operation. vessels down to their minutest branches. Each nerve cell is surrounded by this fluid. Through the foramen of Magendie in the roof of the fourth ventricle, the sub-arachnoid fluid of the cranial cavity communi- cates with that of the spinal canal. It has already been mentioned that each nerve as it leaves the central cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by this fluid. The whole nervous system, therefore, lies bathed in the cerebro-spinal fluid—a point of great physiological and pathological im- portance. The main function of the cerebro-spinal fluid seems to be to compensate for changes in the size of the brain resulting from increase or diminution of its vascular supply. An increased flow of blood to the brain, such as occurs with each cardiac systole, is accompanied by a recession of cerebro-spinal fluid into the spina] canal and nerve-sheaths, while during diastole, as the blood leaves the brain, the intra-cranial pressure is maintained by the c^ebro-spinal fluid again entering the cranial cavity. In cases of cerebral haemorrhage, abscess, tumour, or11 SURGICAL 'ANATOMY. depressed fracture, room is made, up to a certain point, for the extraneous matter by displacement of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Its role in concussion of the brain will be referred to later. The Brain.—It is convenient here to consider briefly such points as have a direct bearing upon surgical diagnosis and treatment. Motor Functions and Mechanism. — Grouped in the region of the fissure of Rolando (Fig. 2), in what are known as the central convolu- tions of the brain, are certain cortical nerve centres which together make up the motor area, and govern the voluntary muscular movements of the body. Each grouj) of muscles lias its own regulating centre, and these have been localised on the surface of the brain with approximate accuracy. For example, the upper third of the ascending frontal con- volution is occupied by the centres governing the inferior extremity, and the middle third of the same convolution contains the centres for the superior extremity. Still lower lie the centres for the facial muscles, the tongue, the pharynx and the larynx. In the inferior frontal (Broca’s) convolution is the centre governing the muscular movements concerned in speech. This centre is located on the left side of the brain in right-handed persons. The motor fibres pass from the cortex through the centrum ovale towards the base of the brain. They converge at the internal capsule, and pass through the anterior two-thirds of its posterior limb (Figs. 3, 16). The fibres for the eyes, face, and tongue lie further forward, and next in order from before backward, those for the arm and leg. From the internal capsule the motor fibres pass as the •pyramidal tract through the crusta of the crura cerebri, the pons and medulla. At the decussation of the pyramids in the lower third of the medulla, the main mass of the motor fibres crosses the middle line and enters the lateral column of the spinal cord as the crossed pyramidal tract. The remaining fibres pass on in the anterior column of the same side as the direct pyramidal tract. In the cord, the fibres of the pyramidal tracts terminate at different levels by breaking up into fine branches around the multipolar nerve cells of the grey matter of the anterior horns, the axis cylinders of which leave the cord as the anterior nerve-roots to supply the voluntary muscles. Sensory Functions and Mechanism. — The sensory nerve fibres pass from their peripheral distribution in the sense organs of the skin, muscles, Tendons, and other structures through the posterior nerve-roots into the sjiinal cord. Some of the fibres ascend the cord in the posterior and lateral columns of the same side, passing upward to the medulla, where most of them enter the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus ; the axis cylinders of the cells of these nuclei cross the middle line at the decussa- tion of the fillet, which is situated just above the motor decussation in the medulla, and there unite with sensory fibres which have ascended in the lateral column of that side, having decussated in the cord soon after their entry. Thence the sensory fibres pass through the dorsal portion of the medulla and pons to reach the tegmentum of the crura cerebri. They then enter the posterior third of the internal capsule, some of them terminating in the optic thalamus, others passing to the cortical sensory centres, which are situated in the Rolandic region and in the parietal lobes immediately posterior to it. Effects of Lesions of the Motor and Sensory Mechanisms.—Localised cortical lesions of an irritative kind, for example, a patch of meningitis, a tumour, meningeal hemorrhage, or a spicule of bone, produce spasmsTHE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. SKIN Fig. 3.—Diagram of the Course of Motor and Sensory Nerve Fibres.13 SURGICAL ANATOMY. in those groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body which are supplied by the centres implicated (Jacksonian epilepsy). The cortical discharge may overflow into neighbouring centres and cause more widespread convulsive movements, or, if strong and long-continued, may even lead to general convulsions. Contractures may occur in the muscles affected after the spasms cease. If an area of the cortex is destroyed by such a lesion, paralysis is produced on the opposite side of the body, the seat and extent of the paralysis depending upon the area of the cortex destroyed. Lesions situated in the centrum ovale, which destroy the fibres pro- ceeding from the overlying cortex, produce a corresponding paralysis on the opposite side of the body. No irritative phenomena are associated with a lesion limited to this situation. Lesions in the region of the internal capsule often produce complete hemiplegia of the opposite side of the body. When the posterior part of the capsule is involved there are, in addition, hemianajstliesia and hemianopia. A lesion of the crus may in like manner produce hemiplegia and hemiansesthesia of the opposite side, often associated with paralysis of the third nerve of the same side. Lesions of the corpora quadrigemina cause interference with the reaction of the pupil, disturbance of the functions of the oculo-motor nerve, ataxia and inco-ordination of the movements of the limbs. The symptoms produced by lesions of the pons and medulla vary according to the position of the lesion. If it is unilateral, there may be hemiplegia and hemiangesthesia of the opposite side ; if it is situated in the lower part of the pons or in the medulla, there is often also paralysis of one or more of the cranial nerves on the same side as the lesion (crossed paralysis). Paralysis of the external rectus of one eye and of the internal rectus of the other (conjugate paralysis) is a characteristic symptom of pontine lesions. Lesions of the pineal body are associated with the symptoms of acromegaly. A unilateral lesion of the spinal cord causes paralysis and wasting of the muscles supplied from the cord at the level of the lesion, with par- alysis of motion on the same side of the body, and of sensation on the opposite side, below the level of the lesion. Other special Centres.—The cortical centres that are related to the different forms of aphasia are of importance. Thus Broca’s convolution is the seat of the motor speech centre, and lesions of it result in “ motor aphasia.” The auditory speech centre, through which spoken words are appreciated; occupies the posterior part of the first, and probably also of the second, temporo-sphenoidal convolutions. Lesions of this centre produce “word deafness,” that is, the patient is unable to understand spoken words, although he may be able to read, write, and speak intel- ligently. A special centre for the appreciation of written words—the visual speech centre—is located in the angular gyrus, and lesions in this region cause “ word blindness,” a condition in which the patient cannot read words although he may be able to speak, to understand spoken language, and to write. A special centre for writing is supposed to lie in the posterior part of the middle frontal convolution, and “agraphia,” or inability to write, results from its destruction. All the above-mentioned special centres are situated in the left cerebral hemisphere in right-handed people. The half-vision centres, or cortical centres for vision, lie on the median surface of the occipital lobes, in the neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure. Each half-vision centre, for there is one in each occipital lobe,THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 14 receives the fibres from the same side of both retinae. Destruction of one half-vision centre produces the condition known as homonymous hemianopia, in which the inner (nasal) half of one visual field and the outer (temporal) half of the other is affected, so that there is an inability to see objects which are situated on the side opposite to the lesion. Lesions of the prefrontal lobes may be associated with disturbance of the higher psychical functions. Disturbances of equilibration and co-ordination occur especially in connection with lesions of the cerebellum and its peduncles. Ataxia, vertigo, and nystagmus are frequently due to cerebellar lesions. Relation of Cerebral Centres to the Surface.—Numerous attempts have been made to formulate rules for locating the different parts of the Fig. 4.—Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation. brain in relation to the surface of the head. The method devised by Chiene is free from many of the difficulties and fallacies common to most other methods inasmuch as the results obtained do not depend upon making definite measurements in inches, or determining particular angles. Certain fixed and easily recognised bony landmarks—the glabella, the external occipital protuberance, the external angular process, and the root of the zygoma—are taken, and connected by lines, which are further subdivided — always being bisected. Figs. 4, 5 explain the method. The head being shaved, a line (GO) is drawn along the vertex from the glabella (G) to the external occipital protuberance (0). This line is bisected in M, which constitutes the “mid-point.” The posterior half of the line MO is bisected in T, constituting the “three-quarters point,” and the posterior half of TO is bisected in S—the “ seven-eighths point.” The external angular process (E) is next connected to the root of the zygoma (P) by a line EP, and the root of the zygoma with the seven- eighths point by PS ; the line EPS thus forms the base line. The external angular process is now joined to the three-quarters point by ET. The two segments of the base line EP and PS are bisected in N and R respectively, and these points connected with the mid-15 CEREBRAL LOCALISATION. point (M) by lines NM and RM. These lines cut off a part of ET— AB, which is now bisected in C, and from C the line CD is drawn parallel to AM. In this way practically all the points of the brain which are wanted for operative purposes may be mapjied out. Thus the quadrilateral MDCA contains the Rolandic area. MA represents the precentral sulcus, and, if it be trisected in K and L, these points will correspond to the origins of the superior and inferior frontal sulci. The pentagon ABRPN corresponds to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The apex of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe extends a little in front of N. The supra- marginal convolution lies in the triangle HBC. The angular gyrus is at B. A is over the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery, Fig. 5.—Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation. and the bifurcation of the Sylvian fissure ; AC follows the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. The lateral sinus at its highest point touches the line PS at R. The fissure of Rolando may be marked out by taking a point half an inch behind the mid-point (M) (Fig. 4), and drawing a line downwards and forwards for a distance of about three and a half inches, at an angle of 67'5° with'the line GO. The angle of 67'5° can be readily determined by folding a square piece of paper on itself so as to make a triangle. The angle at the fold equals 45°. By folding the jrnper again upon itself in the same direction the right angle of the pajier is divided into four angles of 22'5° each. Three of these angles taken together make up the 67 '5°. If the straight edge of the paper be placed along the sagittal suture with the angle of folding over the upper end of the fissure of Rolando, the folded edge falls over the line of the fissure (Cliiene). Operations for Opening the Skull. The operation of opening the skull, by trephining or by raising a flap of bone, is called for in certain cases of fracture, of Jacksonian epilepsy, and in the treatment of cerebral16 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. abscesses and tumours. The special indications in these and other conditions will be referred to later. In all intra-cranial operations every precaution must be taken to diminish shock, by keeping up the body temperature and by avoiding as far as possible injury to the cerebral tissue. The temperature of the operating-room should not be less than 75° F., and the brain when exposed should be frequently irrigated with saline solution at a temperature of about 115° F. As a further precaution against shock, in cases of cerebral tumour, Victor Horsley recommends that the operation should be performed in two stages : the first consisting in opening the skull; the second, undertaken about five days later, in opening the dura and dealing with the intra-cranial lesion. When possible, the head is shaved a day or two before the operation, the scalp thoroughly purified, and the general pre- paration of the patient carried out in the same way as for other major operations. Some surgeons give one-sixth to one- third of a grain of morphin hypodermically just before the operation to diminish haemorrhage by contracting the arterioles, and to dull the patient’s sensations so that a comparatively small Fig. 6.—To illustrate site of various operations on the skull.17 OPERATIONS FOR OPENING THE SKULL. amount of anaesthetic is required. Chloroform is preferable to ether as a general anaesthetic, as it produces a lowering of the blood pressure and causes less congestion of the cerebral vessels. It must, however, be used with great caution on account of the risk of paralysis of the respiratory centre. When there is ah’eady a wound in the scalp, for example, in a case of compound fracture, this is enlarged sufficiently to allow the trephine to be applied, care being taken to make the incisions in such a way as to avoid cutting across the vessels and nerves supplying the haps. When the scalp is intact, a horse-shoe shaped hap, with its base below, is raised. The incision is carried down to the bone, and the pericranium is rehected along with the scalp. The trephine is then applied, and a disc of bone removed from the skull. As the thickness of the bone varies greatly at different parts of the skull, care must be taken to avoid perforating at one part of the circle sooner than at another, the depth of the groove made by the trephine being noted from time to time by means of a sterilised toothpick or probe. The opening may be enlarged if necessary by means of rongeur or gouge forceps or by a Hey’s saw. If bleeding from the vessels of the diploe persists, it may be controlled by crushing the edge of the bone with strong forceps, or by the application of Horsley’s antiseptic putty, which con- sists of carbolic acid one part, oil two parts, and wax seven parts. When a large opening in the skull is required, for example in exploratory operations, or for the removal of extensive tumours, Wagner’s osteoplastic operation, or some modification of it, should be performed (Figs. 2, 6). Wagner’s operation consists in raising a sequent of bone with the overlying periosteum and scalp attached to it. An omega-shaped incision is made through the scalp and pericranium, and at each of the four angles of the area'of bone so delimited a half-inch disc is removed by the trephine. The openings thus made are united by means of the chisel or saw—Gigli’s wire saw is very suitable for this purpose —and the flap, consisting of bone, periosteum, and scalp in one piece, raised. Cotterill lays stress on the importance of applying the saw obliquely in cutting this osseous flap, so that the part to be lifted up is bevelled at the expense of its under surface. B}r attending to this detail it is possible to replace the flap without fear of its sinking below the level of the surrounding bone. The dura mater is opened by a crucial or semilunar incision, VOL. II—2THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 18 care being taken to secure any visible vessels before dividing them, which is most conveniently done by passing a fine suture through the dura so as to surround and include the vessel. Haemorrhage from arteries and veins in the cerebral tissue is controlled by ligature, or by passing a fine catgut stitch round the vessel with an intestinal needle. Venous and capillary oozing may be arrested by irrigation with saline solution at a temperature of 115° F. (Milne Murray), or by the inhalation of oxygen (Victor Horsley). To avoid the risk of septic infection during the after-treatment, drainage of these wounds should be avoided as far as possible. Lumbar Puncture. Quincke, in 1891, first suggested the withdrawal of cerebro- spinal fluid from the spinal theca in the lumbar region, as a means of relieving excessive intra-cranial tension in tuberculous meningitis, and to obtain specimens of the fluid for diagnostic purposes. The scope of the procedure, both as a therapeutic and as a diagnostic measure, has since been widely extended. Technique.—The puncture may be made with the patient either lying on his left side, the spine being fully flexed by approximating the knees and shoulders ; or sitting on a low stool and stooping well forward with the knees separated and the arms hanging loose (Fig. 7). The upper edge of the fourth lumbar spine is identified by drawing a horizontal line across the back at the level of the highest part of the iliac crests. The space between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, being the widest, is that usually selected for lumbar puncture. The skin having been purified, an exploring needle, about three inches long, attached to a syringe, is introduced about half an inch below the fourth lumbar spine, in the middle line, and passed in a direction forwards and slightly upwards. The needle usually encounters some resistance as it pierces the ligamentum sub- flavum, and then enters the sub-arachnoid space. If bone is struck the needle should be withdrawn and introduced at a different level. As it is not advisable to employ suction unless there is difficulty in getting the fluid to flow, the syringe is now detached and the fluid allowed to escape. If it does not do so at once a sterilised stillete should be passed through the needle to clear it of blood-clot or shreds of tissue. If the intra-thecal tension is. normal the fluid trickles away drop by drop, but if it is increased it may escape in a jet.LUMBAR PUNCTURE. 19 The normal cerebrospinal fluid is clear and colourless, having a specific gravity of 1006-1008, and containing a trace of serum globulin and albumose, and a substance which reduces Fehling’s solution (Sir Wm. Turner). Microscopically, it contains some large endothelial cells and a few lymphocytes. Diagnostic Puncture.—Examination of the fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture has proved useful in diagnosis in cases of intra-cranial and intra-spinal haemorrhage, in various forms of Fir. 7.—Site for introduction of needle in Lumbar Puncture. meningitis, in cerebral abscess, and in some cases of cerebral tumour. The first few drops of fluid should be discarded as they may be stained with blood from the puncture. To determine whether staining of the fluid is due to luemorrhage from the puncture, or to a pre-existing intra-cranial or intra-thecal haemorrhage, the fluid should be centrifuged; in the former case the supernatant fluid is clear and limpid, in the latter it retains a yellow tinge. Extra-dural haemorrhage is not attended with the presence of blood in the cerebro-spinal fluid. In cases of acute meningitis the fluid is turbid, and contains20 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. an excess of albumin. Organisms also are present, such as the diplococcus intracellularis, in acute cerebro-spinal meningitis; staphylococci, streptococci, and pneumococci, particularly in the intra-cranial complications of middle ear disease. In all cases of acute microbic infection, and especially in the suppurative forms, polynuclear leucocytes are found in the fluid ; while in chronic affections, such as tubercle and syphilis, there is an excess of lymphocytes (Purves Stewart). The detection of the tubercle bacillus is confirmatory of a diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis, but, as it is often very difficult to obtain, its absence does not negative this diagnosis. In a few cases of malignant neoplasm of the spinal cord and its membranes, characteristic cells have been found in the fluid after centrifuging. Therapeutic Puncture.—In certain cases of cerebral tumour, and of tuberculous meningitis associated with an increased quantity of fluid in the arachno-pial space, marked temporary relief of such symptoms of increased intra-cranial tension as headache, vertigo, blindness, or coma has followed the with- drawal of from 30 to 40 c.c. of the fluid. Terrier and others have found this measure useful in relieving pain in the head, delirium, and even coma, in cases of basal fracture. The quantity withdrawn must not exceed 40 c.c., lest the ventricles be emptied and pressure . be exerted directly on the basal ganglia (Tuffier). This route is sometimes selected for the injection of antitoxin in cases of tetanus ; and for the induction of spinal anmsthesia by Bier’s method. HEAD INJURIES. The comparative immunity of the brain from injury by external violence applied to the skull, and by jolting and shaking, depends upon various physical and architectural arrange- ments which tend to absorb vibrations and to disperse the forces so that they do not reach the brain. Among these may be mentioned the density and mobility of the scalp, the dome-like shape of the skull, and the elasticity of its outer table. The numerous bones of which the skull is composed, and the buffer-like sutural membrane which unites them, the over- lapping of certain of these bones, and the internal ribs andHEAD INJURIES. 21 osseous projections, with the membranes attached to them, all tend to diminish vibration ; and the external buttresses formed by the zygoma and the malar bone, and the thick muscular pads related to these processes, act in the same direction. The mobility of the skull upon the spine, and lastly, the water-bed of cerebro-spinal fluid in which the brain floats, also protect it from injury. In all cases, the questions which dominate the whole clinical outlook are, whether the brain is directly damaged or not, and whether it is likely to become involved by sejitic infection. It is impossible to consider separately in their clinical aspects injuries of the cranium and injuries of the brain. It seldom happens that one is seriously damaged without the other suffering to a greater or less ext.ent. Sometimes the skull suffers com- paratively little while the brain is severely damaged, but it is rare for a serious injury to the bone to be unaccompanied by definite brain lesions. In any case it is the damage to the brain, however slight, which gives to the injury its clinical importance. It is an old and a true saying that “no injury of the head is so trivial as to be despised or so serious as to be despaired of.” Injuries at first sight apparently slight may prove fatal from haemorrhage or sepsis, while, on the other hand, recovery has followed injuries of great severity—for example, the famous “ American crow-bar case,” in which a bar of iron three and a half feet long and one and a half inches thick passed through the head, and yet the patient recovered. It is convenient to consider the injuries of the brain before those of the skull. Concussion and Compression of the Brain. The clinical manifestations of cerebral injury are embraced under the two terms “concussion ” and “compression” of the brain. No true pathological significance attaches to these terms; they are essentially clinical. As the conditions which they indicate do not occur as separate and independent entities, separate descriptions of them are of necessity more or less arbitrary. The symptoms associated with concussion of the brain are to all intents and purposes those of shock, and the term “ cerebral shock ” is sometimes employed as synonymous with concussion. Compression is a general term used to indicate the presence of increased intra-cranial tension from whatever cause resulting —it may be from haemorrhage, from the presence of an abscess22 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. or of a tumour. The only pathological idea the term conveys is that there is more inside the skull than it can conveniently hold. Concussion of the Brain. — As has been said, a patient suffering from concussion of the brain is practically in a condition of shock—shock induced by violence directly inflicted on the brain tissue. The symptoms characteristic of shock may be the only evidence of injury, or they may accompany such gross lesions as fracture of the skull, or contusion and laceration of the brain. The clinical features vary according to the severity of the violence. In the slightest cases the patient does not lose consciousness, but merely feels giddy, faint, and dazed for a few seconds. His mind is confused, but he rapidly recovers, and, perhaps after vomiting, feels quite well again, save for a slight shakiness in his limbs. In more severe cases, immediately on receiving the blow the patient falls to the ground unconscious. Sometimes he suffers from a general tetanic seizure, associated with arrest of respira- tion, which may prove fatal. This convulsion is usually of short duration, and is frequently overlooked. The pulse is slow, small, and feeble, and is sometimes irregular in force and frequency. The respirations are short, shallow, slow, and frequently sighing in character. The temperature falls to 97° F., or even lower. The skin is cold and pallid and covered with clammy sweat, and the features are pinched and pale. In uncomplicated cases the pupils are usually equal, moder- ately dilated, and react sluggishly to light. The patient can be partially roused by shouting or by other forms of external stimulation, but he soon subsides again into a lethargic condition. Although voluntary movement and the deep reflexes are abolished, there is no true muscular paralysis. After a period, varying from a few minutes to several hours, he rallies, the first evidence often being vomiting, which is usually repeated. Sometimes reaction is ushered in by a mild epileptiform seizure. He then turns on his side, the face becomes flushed, and gradually the symptoms pass off and consciousness returns. The temperature rises to 99° or 100° F., and in some cases remains elevated for a few days. In most cases it falls again to 97° or 97'5°, and remains persistently subnormal for one or two weeks. During reaction the pulse becomes quick and bounding, but after a few hours it again becomes slow, and usually remains abnormally slow (40 to 60) for ten or fourteen days. Very commonly the patient complains of pain in the head for some days after the return of consciousness. There is some-CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 23 times a tendency to constipation, and the patient is liable to allow the bladder to become distended, although he has no diffi- culty in making water. Children often sleep a great deal during the first few days, but sometimes they are very fretful. In cases complicated by gross brain lesions the symptoms of concussion imperceptibly merge into those of compression. Pathology.—It is probable that in all cases in,which the patient loses consciousness there is some definite damage of the cerebral tissue. On microscopic examination we have found1 numerous minute petechial haemorrhages scattered widely throughout the brain substance. Colloid bodies, patches of miliary sclerosis, and pigmentary degeneration of nerve cells were found in a majority of the cases examined. Three theories have been put forward to explain the clinical features of concussion :—(1) That which supposes that the brain is thrown into a state of vibration which causes a temporary suspension of its functions, is on anatomical and physical grounds untenable. (2) It has been suggested that the capillary hemorrhages which are found throughout the brain substance produce the symptoms. The majority of observers reject this theory also, on the grounds that the number and extent of such hemorrhages bear no relation to the severity of the concussion symptoms, and that the lesions persist long after the symptoms have passed off. (3) The view of Duret is that most generally accepted. He ascribes the symptoms to stimulation of the restiform bodies by a fluid wave of cerebro-spinal fluid driven towards the base of the brain by the impact of the blow on the skull. This sudden stimulation of the restiform bodies induces a profound anaemia of the brain, to which the symptoms are directly attributable. The momentary increase in the tension of the cerebro-spinal fluid in every part of the brain accounts for the lesions already referred to. We have experimentally con- firmed Duret’s observations, and agree with his conclusions. After-Effects of Concussion.—The majority of patients recover completely. A number complain for a time of headache, languor, museular weakness, and incapacity for sustained effort. Sometimes there is a condition of mental instability, the patient is easily excited, and is unduly affected by alcohol or other stimulants. Occasionally there is permanent mental impairment. It is not uncommon to find that the patient has entirely forgotten the circumstances of the injury and of the events which immedi- ately preceded it. In some instances the memory is permanently 1 Miles, Laboratory Reports, Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, vol. iv.24 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. impaired. On the other hand, it has occurred that a patient, after concussion, has recovered his memory of a foreign language long since forgotten. As it is never possible to determine the precise extent of the damage to the brain, the immediate prognosis, even in the mildest cases of concussion, should always be guarded. If the patient has been actually unconscious, the condition should be looked upon as a serious one, and treated accordingly. Treatment.—The immediate treatment consists in the appli- cation of warmth, and the administration of stimulants when necessary. Absolute rest and quietness are called for. When the symptoms begin to pass off, the head should be raised on pillows to prevent congestion and to diminish the risk of bleeding from damaged blood-vessels in the brain. The applica- tion of an ice-bag or of Leiter’s tubes is sometimes recommended with a view to arresting haemorrhage inside the skull, but its value is more than doubtful. Venesection and the application of leeches over the temple or behind the ear are sometimes employed with benefit. The use of small doses of atropin and ergotin was recommended by von Bergmann. The bowels should be thoroughly opened by calomel, croton oil, or Henry’s solution. A light milk diet should be given. The patient is kept in a dull room, and should be confined to bed for from fourteen to twenty-one days. It is often difficult to convince the patient of the necessity for such prolonged confinement, but the responsi- bility for curtailing it must rest upon him or' his friends. Reading, conversation, and argument must be avoided to ensure absolute rest to the brain. Cerebral Irritation.—In some cases of injury to the head— particularly of. the anterior part and the parietal regions—as the symptoms of concussion are passing off, the patient begins to exhibit a peculiar train of symptoms, which has been graphically described by Erichsen under the name of cerebral irritation. “ The attitude of the patient is peculiar, and most characteristic : he lies on one side and is curled ujj in a state of general flexion. The body is bent forwards and the knees are drawn up on the abdomen, the legs bent, the arms flexed, and the hands drawn in. He does not lie motionless, but is restless, and often, when irritated, tosses himself about. But, however restless he may be, he never stretches himself out nor assumes the supine position, but invariably maintains an attitude of flexion. The eyelids are firmly closed, and he resists violently every effort made to open them; if this be effected, the pupils will be found to be contracted. The surface is pale and cool or even cold.25 CEREBRAL IRRITATION. The pulse is small, feeble, and slow, seldom above 70. The sphincters are not usually affected, and the patient will pass urine when the bladder requires to be emptied; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. “ The mental state is equally peculiar. Irritability of mind is the prevailing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes, unless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of irritability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. It appears as if the temper, as much as or more than the intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. “After a period varying from one to three weeks, the pulse improves in tone, the temperature of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. Irritability gives place to fatuity ; there is less manifestation of temper, but more weakness of mind. Recovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect. ...” The treatment consists in keeping the patient quiet, in a darkened room, on much the same lines as for concussion. Compression of the Brain.—This term is used clinically to describe the train of symptoms which follows a marked increase of the intra-cranial tension produced by such causes as hiemor- rhage, oedema, the accumulation of inflammatory products, or the growth of tumours within the skull. Clinical Features.—The following description refers to cases of compression due to haemorrhage having taken place within the skull as a result of injury. In a majority of traumatic cases, the symptoms of compression supervene on those of concussion ; in a certain proportion there is an interval, during which the patient regains complete consciousness; in others the symptoms of concussion gradually and imperceptibly merge into those of compression. The rapidity of onset of the symptoms and their course and duration vary widely according to the nature and extent of the brain lesion. Death may occur in a few hours, or recovery may take place after the patient has been unconscious for several weeks. The first symptoms are of an irritative character—dull pain in the head, restlessness, and hypersensitiveness to sensory stimuli. The face is suffused, and the pupils at first are usually contracted. The temperature falls to 97°, or even to 95° F. Vomiting is not infrequent. As the pressure increases, paralytic symptoms ensue. The patient gradually loses consciousness, and passes into a condition26 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. of coma. The pulse becomes slow, full, and bounding; the respiration slow and deep, and eventually stertorous or snoring in character from paralysis of the soft palate. The lips and cheeks are puffed out from paralysis of the muscles of these parts. The temperature, which at first falls to 97° or even 95° F., in the course of three or four hours usually rises (100'5° or 102'5° F.). If the temperature reaches 104° F., or higher, the condition usually proves fatal. Sometimes it rises as high as 106° or 108° F.—cerebral hyperpyrexia. Retention of urine from paralysis of the bladder, and involuntary defecation from paralysis of the sphincter ani, are commonly present. During the progress of the symptoms there is frequently evidence of direct pressure upon definite cortical centres or cranial nerves, giving rise to focal symptoms. Particular groups of muscles on the side opposite to the lesion may first show spasmodic jerkings or spasms (unilateral monospasm), and later the same groups become paralysed (monoplegia). The paralysis frequently affects the whole of one side of the body (hemi- plegia), and the oculo-motor nerve is often paralysed at the same time. The pupils vary so widely in different cases that their condi- tion does not form a reliable diagnostic sign. Perhaps it is most common for the pupil on the same side as the lesion to be contracted at first and later to become fully dilated, while that on the opposite side remains moderately dilated. As a rule, they are irresponsive to light. On ophthalmoscopic examination, swelling of the disc is often to be detected. In cases which go on to a fatal termination, the coma deepens and the muscular and sensory paralyses become general and complete. The vital centres in the medulla gradually become involved, and death results from paralysis of the respiratory centre. The fatal issue is often hastened by the onset of hypostatic pneumonia. Not infrequently a modified type of Cheyne-Stokes respiration is observed for some time before death ensues. A similar train of symptoms may ensue in cases of head injury as a result of septic infection having given rise to meningitis or abscess (p. 53). Pathology of Compression.—When any addition is made to the bulk of matter inside the cranial cavity, room is gained in the first instance by the displacement into the vertebral canal of a certain amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid. The capacity of the spinal sheath, however, is limited, and as soon as the tension oversteps a certain point, the pressure comes to bear injuriously27 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. on the cerebral capillaries, diminishing the freedom of the circulation, and so interfering with the nutrition of the brain tissue. As the intra-cranial tension still further increases, the pressure gradually begins to affect the cerebral tissue itself, and so the extreme symptoms of compression are produced. The vagus and vaso-motor centres are irritated and this causes slow- ing of the pulse, contraction of the small arteries, and increase of the arterial tension. The parts of the brain directly pressed upon become anaemic, while the other parts become congested, and the nutrition of the whole brain is thus seriously interfered with. Different parts of the brain and cord show varying powers of resistance to this circulatory disturbance. The cortex is the least resistant part, and next in order follow the corona radiata, the grey matter of the spinal cord, the pons, and last the medulla. Hence it is that the respiratory and cardiac centres hold out longest. Depressed Bone as a Cause of Compression.—-It is more than doubtful if a depressed portion of bone is of itself capable of inducing symptoms of compression of the brain. When such symptoms accompany depressed fracture, they are to be attributed either to associated haemorrhage, or to interference with the circulation and consequent oedema which the displaced bone produces. Fragments of bone may, however, aggravate the symptoms by irritating the cerebral tissue on which they impinge. Foreign Bodies. — The role of foreign bodies, such as bullets, in the production of compression symptoms is very similar to that of depressed bone. That foreign bodies of themselves are not a cause of compression seems evident from the fact that it is not uncommon for them to become permanently embedded in the brain substance without inducing any symptoms whatever. Not only have bullets, the points of sharp instruments, and other substances remained embedded in the brain for years without doing harm, but in many cases the patients have continued to occupy important and responsible positions in life. Differential Diagnosis.—It not infrequently happens that a patient is found in an insensible condition under circumstances which give no clue to the cause of his unconsciousness. He is usually removed to the nearest hospital, and the house-surgeon into whose care he comes must exercise the greatest care and discretion in dealing with him. In attempting to arrive at the cause of the condition, numerous possibilities have to be borne in mind, but it is often impossible to make a definite diagnosis. The chief of these causes are trauma, apoplexy or cerebralTHE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 28 embolism, epileptic coma, alcohol and opium poisoning, uraemic and diabetic coma, sunstroke, and exposure to cold. The commonest error is to mistake a case of cerebral compression for one of drunkenness. It is scarcely necessary to say that a man who smells of alcohol is not necessarily intoxicated : the drink may have been given with the object of reviving him. It may be that one or other of the above-named conditions has caused the patient to fall, and in his fall he has incidentally sustained an injury to the head, which, however, is in no way responsible for his unconsciousness. Wherever there is the least doubt, therefore, the patient should be admitted to hospital. In the first instance careful search should be made for any sign of injury, especially on the head. The discovery of a severe scalp wound or of a fracture of the skull, in association with the symptoms of concussion or compression, will in most cases indicate that the unconsciousness is due to some traumatic intra-cranial lesion. In the absence of evidence of a head injury, the stomach should be washed out and its contents examined to see if any narcotic poison is present. The urine also should be drawn off and examined for albumin and sugar. In haemorrhage due to disease of the cerebral arteries (apoplexy), or to embolism, the symptoms are essentially those of compression, and, in the absence of a definite history of injury to the head, it is seldom possible to arrive at an accurate diagnosis as to the cause of the patient’s condition. The history that the patient has previously had “an apoplectic shock,” and the fact that he is up in years and shows signs of arterial degeneration or of cardiac disease which would favour such conditions, are presumptive evidence that the lesion is not traumatic. If a history is forthcoming that the patient is an epileptic, there is a strong presumption that the symptoms are those of epileptic coma. In alcoholic poisoning the nature of the stomach contents will furnish evidence. The patient is not completely unconscious, nor is he paralysed. The pupils are usually contracted, but react. The temperature is often markedly subnormal. Improve- ment soon takes place after the stomach has been emptied. In opium poisoning the general condition of the patient is much the same as in poisoning by alcohol. The pupils, how- ever, are markedly contracted, and do not react to light. When the poison has been taken in the form of laudanum, this may be recognised by its odour.COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 29 In uraemic and in diabetic coma there is no true paralysis, nor is there stertor. The urine contains albumin or sugar, and there may be oedema of the feet and legs. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends so much on the nature and extent of the injury to the brain, that it is impossible to formulate any general statements with regard to it. It may be said, however, that the symptoms which indicate a bad prognosis in compression are immediate rise of temperature, particularly if it goes above 104° F., the early onset of muscular rigidity, extreme and persistent contraction of the pupils, with loss of the reflex to light, conjugate deviation of the eyes, and the early appearance of bed-sores. In the majority of cases compression ends fatally in from two to seven days. On the other hand, recovery may ensue after the stuporous condition has lasted for several weeks. Contusion and Laceration of the Brain, and Traumatic Intra-cranial H.emorrhace. The brain is contused and lacerated to a greater or less extent in almost every head injury attended with cerebral symptoms. These lesions are usually most severe and dangerous when the skull is fractured and fragments are driven in upon the brain, but they may exist—indeed they may be very extensive—in the absence of fracture. Several degrees are recognised. (1) The occurrence of numerous minute petechial haemorrhages widely scattered throughout the brain in cases of concussion has already been referred to (p. 23). (2) In more severe cases there are often several visible areas of extravasation, most commonly into the grey matter of the cortex (Fig. 8). These foci vary in size from a split-pea to a hazel-nut, and consist of a dark central zone of extravasated blood, surrounded by an area of “ red softening ” of the brain matter, beyond which are numerous minute capillary htemor- rhages. These intra-cerebral lesions may be accompanied by an effusion of blood into the meshes of the arachno-pial mem- brane, and they may occur either at the part of the head struck, or at the opposite pole of the axis of percussion—the so-called point of contre-coup. The symptoms vary with the size and site of the extravasations. It is probable that the phenomena of “ cerebral irritation ” (p. 24) are to be explained by the occur- rence of such haemorrhages widely scattered through the cerebralTHE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 30 cortex. Effusions into the cortical motor areas give rise to irritation or paralysis of the muscles governed by the affected centres. Different forms of aphasia, interference with vision or with hearing, follow implication of the centres governing these functions. In the pre-frontal, and in the lower temporal con- volutions no special symptoms seem to follow. When the haemorrhages are extensive and numerous, symptoms of com- Fig. 8.—Contusion and Laceration of Brain. Note limited lesion at point of impact on left side, and more extensive damage at point of cmtre-coup on right. (After Jonathan Hutchinson.) pression may ensue, and this is specially liable to occur when cerebral oedema is superadded. Localised haemorrhages also occur, although less frequently, in the crura cerebri, the pons, the floor of the fourth ventricle, and the cerebellum. In these situations they usually prove fatal by causing rapidly advancing coma and interference with the respiratory and cardiac centres. The temperature immedi- ately rises to 106° or even 108° F., and a modified form of Cheyne-Stokes respiration is present. (3) Still more gross lesions, in the form of distinct lacerations,CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. 31 are comparatively common at the tips of the frontal, temporo- sphenoidal, and occipital lobes, on the surface of the cerebellum, and at the base of the brain. These are usually associated with symptoms of compression in its most typical form, and as a rule prove fatal. The grey matter is torn, and extensive effusion of blood takes place into the brain substance, and on the surface, tilling up the sulci, and distending the araclmo-pial space (Fig. 8). In a compound fracture or a penetrating wound, brain matter may be extruded through the opening in the skull. (4) The extravasated blood may burst into the lateral ventricles, in which case the pulse becomes small and rapid— 130, 160, or even 170. The respiration also is rapid—45 to 60 —and greatly embarrassed, and the temperature suddenly rises to 103° or 104° F., and continues to rise till death ensues. Mechanism.—The occurrence of these widespread and variable haemorrhages is explained by the disturbance of the cerebro spinal fluid which accompanies an injury of the head. It has already been mentioned that this fluid not only surrounds the brain and Alls the ventricles, but that it also permeates its substance in every direction, so that any increase in the tension of the fluid affects, by hydrostatic pressure, every portion of the brain. The momentary depression of the skull caused by a blow suddenly increases the pressure throughout the whole brain, and so may lacerate vessels at any point. Hence it is that the lesion is. not always at the seat of impact, but may be at the opposite side of the skull or at other remote points. Repair.—When recovery takes place, the disintegrated brain matter is replaced by cicatricial tissue, neither the nerve cells nor the fibres being regenerated. A localised extravasation of blood'may become encapsulated, and constitute a “haemor- rhagic cyst.” Middle Meningeal Haemorrhage.—The commonest cause of extra-dural haemorrhage is laceration of the middle meningeal artery. This artery—a branch of the internal maxillary—after entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch which supply the meninges and calvaria. Either branch may be injured in association with fractures, or from incised, punctured, or gun-shot wounds. The vessel may be ruptured without the skull being fractured, and sometimes it is the artery on the side opposite to the seat of the blow which is torn. The most common situations for rupture are at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, in which case the anterior branch is torn (90 to 95 per cent.);32 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. and on the inner aspect of the temporal bone where the posterior branch is torn (5 to 10 per cent.). It is probable that the size of the hamiorrhage depends on the nature, extent, and severity of the injury to the head. The recoil of the skull after the blow separates the dura from the bone, and if the meningeal artery is lacerated or punctured, blood is effused into the space thus formed. A localised blow therefore results in a small area of separation and a correspond- ingly small clot; while a diffuse blow is followed by more extensive lesions. It is believed that once the dura is partially separated, the force of the blood poured out from the lacerated artery is—on the principle of the hydraulic press—sufficient to continue the separation. Clinical Features.—The typical characteristics of middle meningeal haemorrhage are met with only when the bleeding takes place between the dura and the bone. Under these con- ditions the symptoms of concussion are usually most prominent at first, and those of compression only ensue after a varying interval during which the patient as a rule regains conscious- ness. In some cases, indeed, he is able to continue his work, or to walk home or to hospital, before any evidence of intra- cranial mischief manifests itself. This interval of consciousness helps to distinguish the symptoms due to middle meningeal haemorrhage from those of - laceration of the brain substance, as in the latter the symptoms of concussion merge directly into those of compression. Lumbar puncture may aid in the differ- ential diagnosis between extra- and intra-dural haemorrhage, as blood is present in the fluid withdrawn in the latter, but not in the former. A few hours after the accident the patient experiences severe pain in the head, and he usually vomits repeatedly. For a time he is restless and noisy, but gradually becomes drowsy, and the stupor increases more or less rapidly until coma supervenes. The pulse usually becomes slow and full. The respiration is rapid (30 to 50) and becomes greatly embarrassed and stertorous. The temperature progressively rises, and before death may reach 106° F., or even higher. Monoplegia, usually beginning in the face or arm, gradually comes on, and is followed by hemiplegia, from pressure on the motor areas underlying the clot. Death usually ensues in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours unless the pressure within the skull is relieved by operation. When the haemorrhage takes place from the anterior branch, the clot may spread towards the base, and may press upon the cavernous sinus, causing congestion and protrusion of33 MIDDLE MENINGEAL HAEMORRHAGE. the eye, with paralysis of the third nerve and wide dilatation of the pupil. In most cases of middle meningeal haemorrhage there is no gross injury to the brain. The area underlying the clot is merely compressed and emptied of blood, and, on being exposed, the brain is found flattened, or even deeply indented by the blood-clot, and it does not pulsate. If the clot is removed, the brain soon regains its normal contour and its pulsation returns. If the fracture is compound, the blood can escape, and there- fore the pressure symptoms are less evident or may be entirely absent. It is a fact of some medico-legal importance that haemorrhage from the middle meningeal may not take place till some days, or even weeks, after an injury, which at the time was only attended with symptoms of concussion. This condition is known as traumatic apoplexy. In the majority of cases left to nature death takes place within twelve or eighteen hours. Even after removal of the clot, death may ensue if the brain has been lacerated, or if there is hamiorrhage at the base. Treatment.—Immediate operation is imperatively called for, not only to arrest the haemorrhage and remove the clot, but also to ward off the traumatic oedema of the brain, which is often responsible for the fatal issue. When a wound already exists, it is enlarged as far as is necessary to secure the bleeding vessel and to remove all clots. When there is no external wound, the point at which the skull is to be opened is determined by the symptoms; for example, paralysis of the arm and face on one side indicates trephining over the centres governing these parts on the opposite side. If the symptoms fail to indicate which branch of the artery is torn, an opening should first be made over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone (Fig. 6), and if nothing is found there, a second opening is made over the parietal bone a little above and behind the external ear. Should no blood be found outside the dura, this membrane should be incised, as there may be a clot inside it. Sometimes there is considerable difficulty in securing the bleeding vessel, and the haemorrhage may assume serious propor- tions. It may be necessary to enlarge the trephine opening downwards with rongeur forceps to enable a ligature to be passed round the vessel. In some cases the artery runs in a canal in the bone, and the bleeding can only be arrested by inserting a small wooden peg into the opening, or by plugging it with antiseptic wax. If these measures fail, it may be VOL. II—334 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. necessary to ligate the external carotid artery. It has been suggested by J. B. Murphy that, when the patient is seen while the symptoms of compression are coming on, instead of trephin- ing, the haemorrhage from the meningeal vessels should be arrested by applying a ligature to the external carotid, under .local anaesthesia. Injury to the internal carotid artery within the skull may Fig. 9. — Extra-Dural Clot resulting from haemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery. Note fissured fracture of skull and compression of brain by the blood-clot. (After Jonathan Hutchinson.) result from penetrating wounds, or may be associated with a fracture of the base. It is almost invariably fatal. In some cases a communication is established between the artery and the cavernous sinus, and an arterio-venous aneurysm is thus produced. Ligature of the internal carotid in the neck or of the common carotid is the only feasible treatment. Injuries of the venous sinuses sometimes result from fractures of the skull and from penetrating wounds. The lateral, superior longitudinal, and cavernous sinuses are those most frequently damaged. On account of the low pressure in the sinuses,INTRA-CEANIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 35 spontaneous arrest of the haemorrhage usually takes place, and recovery ensues. In some cases, however, the amount of blood extravasated is sufficient to cause compression. If the dura mater is torn, the blood passes into the sub-arachnoid space and may spread over the whole surface of the brain. In the presence of an open wound, the venous source of the bleeding is recognised by the dark colour of the blood and the continuous character of the stream. It may be arrested by pressure with gauze pads, or, if this fails, by grasping the sinus with forceps and leaving these in position for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. A small puncture in the outer wall of the sinus may be closed with sutures. Signs of increasing compression call for trephining and opening the dura to enable the clot to be removed. Intra-cranial Haemorrhage in the Newly-Born. An ex- travasation of blood into the arachno-pial space frequently occurs during birth. The observations of Cushing seem to show that this is usually due to tearing of the delicate cerebral veins which pass from the cortex to the longitudinal sinus, from the strain put upon them by the overlapping of the parietal bones in the moulding of the head. It may sometimes be due to an excessive degree of asphyxia during birth. The effusion is usually most marked over the central area of the cortex near the middle line, and it is often bilateral. TJiis condition is most frequently met with in a first-born child—and more often in boys than in girls—the labour having been prolonged and difficult, and the presentation abnormal. There is usually a history that the infant was deeply cyanosed when born, and that there was difficulty in getting it to breathe. As a rube, there is no external evidence of trauma. The anterior fontanelle is tense and does not pulsate, the pulse is slow, and for several days the child appears to have difficulty in sucking and swallowing, and is abnormally still. In the course of a few days definite symptoms of localised pressure appear. It is noticed that one leg, or arm, or one side of the body is not moved, or both sides may be affected. When the paralysis is bilateral, the absence of movement is more liable to be over- looked. The infant may suffer from convulsions • there may be paralysis of certain of the ocular muscles, and inequality of the pupils; sometimes there is blindness. Persistent rigidity of the limbs, with turning of the thumbs towards the palm, is present in some cases. Lumbar puncture may reveal the presence of blood corpuscles in the cerebro-spinal fluid, and is useful where the diagnosis is uncertain. If untreated, the condition is usually followed by the develop-36 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. ment of spastic paralysis of one or more limbs, on one or on both sides of the body, by blindness, deafness, and varying degrees of mental deficiency, or by Jacksonian epilepsy. Treatment.— To obviate these after-effects the clot should be removed by raising an osteo-plastic flap, including nearly the whole of the parietal bone. If care is taken to keep up the body-warmth, and to prevent undue loss of blood, infants bear these operations well (Cushing). Traumatic CEdema.—After severe injuries to the head, just as in inflammatory conditions, it is not uncommon for a diffuse cedematous infiltration of the brain substance or of the arachno- pial membrane to take place in the vicinity of the injured portion of brain. This serous exudation, on account of the natural adhesions of the arachno-pia, usually remains limited to the damaged area, but it may become general. In the former case, in addition to the symptoms of increased intra-cranial tension, there are focal symptoms varying with the site of the lesion. When situated over the motor area, the symptoms may simulate those of middle meningeal haemorrhage, from which it is diagnosed with difficulty. The main points of difference are, that in oedema the unconsciousness and coma are less marked and are not steadily progressive, headache is very severe, and on percussion over the head there is marked tender- ness, which may be elicited even after the patient has ceased to answer questions or to take notice of his surroundings. The tenderness may extend down over the cervical spine. The knee- jerks are usually diminished or absent. The condition is most common in children, and, as it tends to spontaneous cure, opera- tion is seldom called for. If life is threatened, however, the intra-cranial tension should be relieved by trephining. Wounds of the Brain.—Incised wounds of the brain usually result from sabre-cuts, and are met with chiefly in military practice. A portion of the scalp and cranium may be raised along with a slice of brain matter, and in some cases the whole flap is severed. The extent of the injury, the conditions under which it is received, and the occurrence of septic infection, render such wounds extremely dangerous. Punctured ivounds may be inflicted on the vault by stabs with a knife or dagger, or by other sharp objects, such as the spikes of a railing. More frequently a pointed instrument, such as a fencing foil, the end of an umbrella, or a knitting needle, is thrust through the orbit into the base of the brain. Oc- casionally the base of the skull has been perforated through the roof of the pharynx, for example, by the stem of a tobacco-pipe.TRAUMATIC EPILEPSY. 37 All such wounds are of necessity compound, and the risk of septic infection is considerable, particularly if the penetrating object is broken and a portion remains embedded within the skull. The septic complications of such injuries are described later (p. 52). Bullet wounds have many features in common with punctured wounds. There is more contusion of the brain substance, disintegrated brain matter is usually found in the wound of entrance, and the bullet often carries in with it pieces of bone, cloth, or wad, thus adding to the risk of septic infection. Aseptic foreign bodies, especially bullets, may remain em- bedded in the brain without producing symptoms. The treatment of punctured wounds consists in enlarging the wound in the soft parts, trephining the skull, and removing any foreign body that may be in it, purifying the track, and establishing drainage. After-effects of Head Injuries.—Various after-effects may follow on injuries of the head. Thus, for example, chronic interstitial changes (sclerosis) may spread from an area of cicatrisation in the brain ; or cerebral softening may ensue, either in the form of pale areas of necrosis (white softening), or of hcemorrhagic patches (red softening). The symptoms vary with the area implicated. Adhesions between the brain and its membranes may produce attacks of vertigo and pain, especially on the patient making sudden movements. Traumatic epilepsy may ensue as a sequel of such injuries as cause symptoms of concussion or compression. The disease is due to some circumscribed cortical lesion, such as a spicule of bone projecting into the cortex, the presence of adhesions between the membranes and the brain, a cicatrix in the brain tissue leading to sclerosis, or a haemorrhagic cyst in the membranes or cerebral tissue. The role of cicatrices in the scalp in the production of traumatic epilepsy is more than doubtful. The convulsive attacks are of the Jacksonian type, beginning in one particular group of muscles and spreading thence to neighbouring groups till the whole body may be affected. The disease may manifest itself soon after the injury, for example, when the cause is a fragment of bone irritating the cortex. In other cases it may be several years before the symptoms appear. The onset is usually sudden, and the “ signal symptom,” for ex- ample, jerking .of the thumb, conjugate deviation of the eyes, or motor aphasia, indicates the seat of the lesion. At first the attacks only recur at intervals of, it may be, weeks or months,38 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. but as time goes on they become more and more frequent, until there may be as many as forty or fifty in a day. Sometimes the patient loses consciousness during the fit; sometimes he remains partly conscious. In course of time the same degenerative changes as occur in epilepsy of other than traumatic origin, ensue : certain groups of muscles may become paralysed; the patient may pass into a state of idiocy; or into what is known as the “ status epilepticus,” in which the fits succeed one another without remission, the breathing becoming stertorous, the temperature rising, the pulse becoming very rapid ; finally coma supervenes, and the patient dies. Treatment.—The administration of bromides is only palliative. Operation is indicated in all cases in which the “ signal symptom ” indicates a limited and accessible portion of the brain as the seat of the lesion, and also in cases where there is a depression of the skull or other definite evidence of cranial injury. The more recent the injury the better is the prospect, as secondary changes are less likely to have taken place, and the peculiarly irritable state of the brain—sometimes referred to as the “epileptic habit ”—has not developed. The operation consists in opening the skull freely, and removing any discoverable cause of irrita- tion—depressed bone, thickened and adherent membranes, a cyst, or sclerosed patch of cortex. The point at which the skull is opened is determined by the seat of the injury and the focal brain symptoms. When no visible lesion is discovered after opening the skull, the cortical area governing the muscles in which the fits originate should be excised with a view to preventing recurrence. The focus to be removed may sometimes be recognised by stimulating the motor cortex with a mild electric current, and so inducing contraction of the group of muscles which give the “signal symptom” of the fits. The clinical value of this procedure, however, is not great. To prevent adhesions forming afresh, some surgeons insert a thin plate of gold or silver or Cargil membrane, between the brain and the overlying parts. Kocher has pointed out that it is not advisable to replace the bone after operating for epilej>sy. The patient must abstain from work, especially manual labour, for several years. The return of fits within a few days of the operation does not necessarily mean failure, as they often pass off again. Complete and permanent cure is not common, but the number and severity of the attacks are usually so far diminished that the patient’s life is bearable. In alcoholic subjects the prognosis is less favourable.TRAUMATIC INSANITY. 39 'Traumatic insanity may follow injury to any part of the brain, and it may come on either immediately or after an interval. It may or may not be associated with epilepsy. Any form of insanity, except perhaps general paralysis of the insane, may occur, either as a direct result of the trauma, or from the resistance of the brain being lowered by the injury in a patient predisposed to insanity. Cases occurring within a few days of the injury usually recover within a month or two. The later the condition is in developing, the worse is the prognosis. Surgical treatment by trephining has not been conspicuously successful. After severe head injuries the patient’s whole mental attitude is sometimes changed, so that he becomes irritable, unstable, and incapacitated for brain work. In some cases self-control is lost, and alcoholic and drug habits are developed. Meningitis, sinus thrombosis, and cerebral abscess may follow upon any form of head injury attended with bacterial infection. The clinical features—save for the history of a traumatism— correspond so closely with those of the same conditions occurring apart from injury, that they are considered together (p. 52).40 CHAPTER III. INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Contusions—Fkactub.es—Of the vault: Varieties—Of the Base : Anterior fossa—Middle fossa—Posterior fossa. The bones of the skull may be contused or fractured. These injuries are not in themselves serious : their clinical importance is derived from the injury of the brain, with which they are liable to be associated. Contusion of the bones of the skull may result from a fall, a blow, or a gunshot injury. In the majority of cases the damage to soft parts—scalp or brain—overshadows the osseous lesion, which of itself is comparatively unimportant. FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. While it is convenient to consider separately fractures of the vault and fractures of the base of the skull, it is to be borne in mind that it is not uncommon for a fracture to involve both the vault and the base. Fractures in either situation may be pro- duced by direct or by indirect violence, and may be simple or compound. Fractures of the Vault. Mechanism.—When the skull is broken by direct violence, the fracture takes place at the seat of impact, and its extent varies with the nature of the impinging object, and the degree of violence employed. If, for example, a pointed instrument, such as a bayonet, a foil, or a spike, is forcibly driven against the skull, the weapon simply crashes through the bone, disintegrating it at the point of entrance, and cracking or splintering it for a41 FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. variable, but limited, distance beyond. On the other hand, when the head is struck by a “blunt” object—for example, a batten falling from a height, or a horse’s hoof—the force is applied over a wider area and the elastic skull bends before it. If the limits of its elasticity are not exceeded, the bone recoils into its normal position when the force ceases to act; but if the bone is bent beyond the point from which it can recoil, a fracture takes place. The bone gives way over a wide area, the affected portion may be comminuted, and one or more of the fragments may remain depressed below the level of the rest of the skull. Cracks and fissures spread widely in different directions— frequently extending into the base. The brittle, inelastic character of the inner or “ vitreous ” table renders it less able to resist bending than the comparatively open and porous outer table. Hence it is that in almost all fractures of the vault the inner table splinters over a wider area than the outer. Von Bergman n reports thirty cases in which the inner table alone was fractured. Fractures by indirect violence—that is, fractures in which the bone breaks at a point other than the seat of impact—are almost always due to violence inflicted with a blunt object, and acting over a wide area—such, for example, as a fall on the head. Much discussion has taken place as to the method of their production. It has been shown that when the skull is depressed at one point by a force impinging on it, it bulges at another, so that its whole contour is altered. But the elasticity of the bone varies at different parts of the skull, owing to differences in thickness and in structure. If therefore the part which is depressed—that is, the part directly struck—happens to be less elastic than the part which bulges, it gives way, and a fracture by direct violence results; but if the bulging part is the less elastic, a fracture by indirect violence or by “ bursting ” takes place. The term “fracture by contre-coiq)” has been incorrectly applied to such fractures when the area of bulging happens to be opposite to the seat of impact. Contre-coup, properly so-called, is only possible in a perfectly spherical body, which, of course, the skull is not. Repair.—The repair of fractures of the skull is usually attended with an exceedingly small amount of callus. Except in the presence of sepsis, separated fragments live and become reunited, but they may unite in such a manner as to project towards the brain and cause traumatic epilepsy. In comminuted fractures, the lines of fracture remain permanently visible on the bone, but fissured fractures may leave no trace. Gaps left in42 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. the skull by injury or operation are, after a time, filled in by a fibrous membrane, which may undergo ossification, but unless the aperture is a small one it is seldom completely closed by bone. The new bone which forms is derived from the dura mater and pericranium at the margins of the opening. The existence of permanent defects in the skull may cause the patient to become giddy when he stoops or exerts himself unduly, and so raises the intra-cranial tension, and may thus seriously interfere with his occupation. Varieties.—For descriptive purposes fractures of the vault are divided into the fissured, the punctured, the depressed, and Fig. 10. —Fracture of Skull produced by an oval stone (a) tired from a gun. Note fissures radiating from point of entrance of missile. the comminuted varieties. Clinically, however, these different varieties are often combined. The practical importance of a given fracture depends upon whether it is simple or compound, rather than upon the exact nature of the damage done to the bone. Compound fractures which open the dura mater are the most serious. Simple fractures result, as a rule, from diffuse forms of violence, and are liable to spread far beyond the seat of impact. Compound fractures result from severe and localised violence—for example, the kick of a horse or the blow of a hammer, and tend to be limited more or less to the seat of impact. In gunshot injuries, however, there are usually numerous fissures radiating from the point at which the missile enters the skull (Fig. 10). Fissured fractures generally result from blows by blunt43 FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. objects or from falls, and they usually extend far beyond the area struck, in many cases passing into the base. The fissure may pass through the bone vertically or obliquely, and it may implicate one or both tables. So long as the fracture is simple, it can scarcely be diagnosed except by inference from the associated symptoms of meningeal or cerebral injury. When compound, the crack in the bone can be seen and felt. It is recognised by the eye as a narrow split in the bone, filled with red blood, which, as often as it is sponged away, oozes again into the gap. Sometimes a tuft of hair is caught between the edges of the fracture, and this adds to the difficulty of purifying the wound. Diagnosis.—A normal suture may be mistaken for a fissured fracture. A suture, however, may generally be recognised by its position, the irregularity of its margins, and the absence of blood between its edges. At the same time it is not uncommon, especially in children, for a suture to be sprung by violence applied to the head, or for a fissured fracture to enter a suture and, after running in it for some distance, to leave it again. The edges of a clean cut in the periosteum may be mistaken for a fissure in the bone, especially when reliance is placed on the probe-for diagnosis. With the finger-nail the edge of the peri- osteum can be raised from the bone, and the true nature of the lesion revealed. The prognosis depends upon associated meningeal haemorrhage, brain injury, or septic infection. Treatment.—Fissured fractures as such call for no active treat- ment. When compound, the wound must be disinfected; and intra-cranial complications are to be treated on the lines already described. Punctured fractures are of necessity compound. They result from the localised impact of a sharp, and usually infected object, the point of which is not infrequently left either in the bone or inside the skull. Fragments of bone are often driven into the brain, and short fissures frequently pass in various directions from the central aperture. Diagnosis.—When the instrument impinges on the head obliquely, after piercing the scalp it may pass for some distance under it before perforating the skull, so that on its withdrawal a valvular wound is left, and at first sight it appears that only the scalp is involved. Sometimes a foreign body left in the gap so fills it up that it is difficult to detect the fracture with a probe or even with the finger. In all doubtful cases, the scalp wound should be sufficiently enlarged to exclude such fallacies.44 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. The prognosis is always grave on account of the risks of septic infection of the brain and its membranes. Treatment.—The scalp wound must be purified, being opened up as far as is necessary for this purpose. In almost every case the infected portion of bone should be removed to render possible the purification of the membranes and brain, and to permit of drainage. Depressed and Comminuted Fractures.—As these varieties Fig. 11.—Depressed and Comminuted Fracture of Right Parietal Bone : Pond Fracture. almost always occur in combination, they are best considered together. The terms “indentation fracture,” “gutter fracture,” “pond fracture,” have been applied to different forms of de- pressed fracture, according to the degree of damage to the bone and the disposition of the fragments (Figs. 11, 12). These fractures may be simple or compound. Asa rule the whole thickness of the skull is broken, and, as usual, the inner table suffers most. In infants the bones may be merely indented, the fracture being of the greenstick variety. All degrees of severity are met with, from a simple,FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. 45 localised indentation of the bone, to complete smashing of the whole skull into fragments. Diagnosis.—When compound, the nature of these fractures is readily recognised on exploring the wound, but their extent is not always easy to determine. It is not uncommon for extensive fissures to pass into the base. A hsematoma of the scalp may readily be mistaken for a depressed fracture. The condensation of the tissues round the seat of impact, and the soft coagulum in the centre closely simulate a depression in the bone; but if firm pressure is made with the finger, the irregular edge of the bone can be recognised, Fig. 12. — Pond Fracture of Left Frontal Bone, produced during delivery. (Fronl a photograph lent by Mr. J. H. Nicoll.) and the dejjressed portion is felt to be on a lower level. On the other hand, sometimes a depression in the bone is obscured by an overlying haimatoma, and unless great care is taken the fracture may be overlooked. Treatment.—All are agreed that compound depressed and com- minuted fractures—whether associated with cerebral symptoms or not—should be operated on, to enable the wound to be purified, and the normal outline of the skull to be restored by elevating or removing depressed or separated fragments. Except in young children, in whom considerable degrees of depression are frequently righted by nature, most surgeons recommend operativeINJURIES OF THE SKULL. 46 interference even in simple fractures with the object of elevating the depressed bone, and to anticipate subsequent complications such as persistent headache, attacks of giddiness, traumatic epilepsy, or insanity. Others, including von Bergmann and Tillmanns, consider that the risk of such sequelse ensuing is not sufficient to justify a prophylactic operation of such severity as trephining. The operation consists in exposing the fractured area by enlarging the wound in cases of compound fracture, or by throwing down a horseshoe-shaped flap in cases where no wound exists. Fragments which are still connected with the pericranium or dura mater should be placed in position and left to unite ; when entirely separated, they should, as a rule, be removed. There is often considerable difficulty in elevating the depressed fragments, and it is necessary to remove a portion of the intact bone by means of the trephine, Hey’s saw, or rongeur forceps, to enable the elevator to be inserted under them. The raising of the fragments is sometimes followed by haemorrhage from torn vessels of the dura which have been prevented from bleeding by the depressed portions of bone. To diminish the risk of epilepsy in the future, Kocher considers it an advantage to leave a gap in the skull, which will admit of variations in the intra-cranial tension. Fractures of the Base. The base of the skull may be fractured by a pointed object, such as a fencing foil, a knitting pin, or the end of an umbrella, being forced through the orbit, the nasal cavities, or the pharynx. These injuries will be referred to in describing fractures of the anterior fossa. The majority of basal fractures result from such accidents as a fall from a height, the patient landing on the vertex or on the side of the head, or from a heavy object falling on the head. The violence is therefore indirect in so far as the bone breaks at a point other than the seat of impact. In other cases the base is broken by the patient falling from a height and landing on his feet or buttocks, the force being transmitted through the spine to the occiput, and the bone giving way around the foramen magnum. Sometimes the condyle of the lower jaw is driven through the base of the skull by a blow or fall on the chin, and fissures radiate into the base from the glenoid cavity. It is usual to describe these also as fractures by indirect violence, but as the skull gives way at the point where it is struck, they are really fractures byFRACTURES OF THE BASE. 47 direct violence. Von Bergmann, Bruns, and Messerer have done much to elucidate the mechanism of basal fractures. In the consideration of the mode of production of basal fractures by indirect violence, the irregular shape of the cavity, the varying strength and thickness of its different parts, and the existence of the foramina through the bone are to be borne in mind. The force acting on the skull tends to increase one diameter of the cavity, and to diminish the opposite diameter. The resulting fracture, therefore, is due to bursting of the skull, and tends to take place at the part which has least elasticity—that is, at the base. It has been found that the site and direction of basal fractures bear a fairly constant relation to the direction of the force by which they are produced. When, for example, the skull is compressed from side to side, the line of fracture through the base is usually transverse, and it may implicate one or both sides (Fig. 13). On the other hand- when the pres- sure is antero-posterior, the fracture tends to be longi- tudinal, and when oblique it tends to be diagonal. Fractures of the base usually take the form of a single fissure, or a series Fig. 13. — Transverse Fracture through of fissures, which, as a rule, Middle Fossa of Base of Skull, with fis- run through the foramina fres radiating into anterior and posterior in their track. Small por- ° *' tions of bone are sometimes completely separated. It is very common for a fissure through the base to be continued for a considerable distance on to the vault. The fracture may involve only one fossa, but as a rule fissures radiate into two or all of them (Fig. 13). Fractures of the anterior and middle fossae are usually rendered com- pound by tearing of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the nose, or the ear. Basal fractures are very frequently associated with contusion and laceration of the brain, and also with injuries of one or other of the cranial nerves.INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 48 Fracture of the anterior fossa may result from a blow on the forehead, nose, or face; or from a punctured wound of the orbit or nasal cavity. Often the injury is at first con- sidered trivial, and it is only when septic complications, in the form of meningitis or cerebral abscess, develop, that its true nature is recognised. This fossa may also be implicated in fractures of the vault, fissures extending from the vertex to the orbital plates of the frontal bone, or to the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Clinical Features.—Unless the fracture is compound through opening into the nose or pharynx, there are few symptoms by which it can be recognised. It has been observed that the percussion note is sometimes altered when the skull is fractured, but we have not found this sign of much practical value. • When compound, there may be bleeding from the pharynx ox- nose from tearing of the periosteum and mucous membrane related to the basi-sphenoid and ethmoid respectively. When the htemorrhage is profuse, it is probable that the meningeal vessels or even the venous sinuses have been torn. Cerebro- spinal fluid may escape along with the blood, but it is seldom possible to recognise it. If the flow of cerebro-spinal fluid is long continued, the patient may be conscious of a persistent salt taste in the mouth, due to the large proportion of sodium chloride which the fluid contains. In very severe injuries, brain matter may escape through the nose or mouth. Fracture of the anterior fossa is often accompanied by effusion of blood into the orbit, pushing forward the eyeball and infiltrating the conjunctiva (subconjunctival ecchymosis). This occurs especially when the orbital plate of the frontal bone is implicated. The blood which infiltrates the conjunctiva passes from behind forwards, appearing first at the outer angle of the eye and spreading like a fan towards the cornea. Later it spreads into the upper eyelid. When the orbital ridge is chipped off, without the cavity of the skull being opened into, the haemorrhage shows at once both under the conjunctiva and in the upper lid. If the frontal sinus is opened, air may infiltrate the scalp. The olfactory, optic, oculo-motor, pathetic, ophthalmic division of the trigeminal, and the abducens nerves are all liable to be implicated. Diagnosis.—It is scarcely necessary to state that bleeding from the nose or mouth may occur after a blow on the face without the occurrence of a fracture of the skull. It is only when it is long continued and profuse that the bleeding suggests49 FRACTURES OF THE RASE. a fracture. Similarly the effusions of blood in the region of the orbit may be due to a simple contusion of the soft parts (“black eye ”), or to gravitation of blood from the forehead or temple. Subconjunctival ecchymosis also may occur independently of a fracture implicating the anterior fossa, for example in association with an ordinary black eye, or with fracture of the orbital ridge or of the malar bone. Finally, paralysis of the cranial nerves may result from pressure of blood-clot, or from the nerves being torn without the skull being fractured. Fracture of the middle fossa is usually the result of severe violence applied to the vault, as, for example, when a man falls from a window, or is thrown from a horse and lands on his head. Clinical Features.—The most conclusive sign of fracture of the middle fossa is the escape of dark-coloured blood in a steady stream from the ear, followed by oozing of cerebro-spinal fluid. The bleeding from the ear may go on for days, the blood gradually becoming lighter in colour from admixture with cerebro-spinal fluid. Finally the blood ceases, but the clear fluid continues to drain away, sometimes for weeks, and in such quantity as to soak the drepsihgs and the pillow. In our experience, the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid is much less common than is generally supposed. In most cases, on examining the ear with a speculum, the tympanic membrane is found to be ruptured ; when it is intact, the blood and cerebro-spinal fluid may pass down the Eustachian tube into the pharynx. The escape of brain matter from the ear is exceedingly rare. Emphysema of the scalp sometimes results when the fracture passes through the mastoid cells. The facial and auditory nerves and the second and third divisions of the trigeminal are frequently implicated. Diagnosis.—Care must be taken not to mistake blood which has passed into the ear from a scalp wound, or which has its origin in a fracture of the wall of the external auditory meatus or a laceration of the tympanic membrane, for blood escaping from a fracture of the base. Under such conditions the blood is usually bright red, is not accompanied by cerebro-spinal fluid, and the flow soon stops. It is on record1 that blood and cerebro-spinal fluid may escape along the sheath of the auditory nerve without the bone being broken. Fracture of the posterior fossa is produced by the same forms of violence as cause fracture of the middle fossa ; it is specially liable to result if the patient falls on the feet or buttocks. 1 Miles, Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1895. VOL. TI —450 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Clinical Features. — Sometimes a comparatively limited fracture of the occipital bone results, and in the course of a few days blood infiltrates the scalp in the region of the occiput and mastoid, or may pass down in the deeper planes of the neck. As a rule, however, there is no immediate external evidence of fracture. The patient is generally unconscious, and shows signs of injury to the pons and medulla, causing interference with respiration, which soon proves fatal. The rapidly fatal issue of these cases usually prevents the manifesta- tion of any injury to the posterior cranial nerves. Diagnosis of Basal Fractures.—In the diagnosis of fractures of the base reliance is to be placed chiefly upon : (1) the nature of the injury ; (2) the diffuse character of the cerebral symptoms; (3) the evidence of injury to individual cranial nerves; (4) the occurrence of persistent bleeding from the nose, mouth, or ear; (5) the extravasation of blood under the con- junctiva or behind the mastoid process; and (6) the presence of blood in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture. In rare cases the diagnosis is made certain by the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid or of brain matter from the nose, mouth, or ear. It must be admitted, however, that in a large proportion of cases which end in recovery the diagnosis of fracture of the base is little more than a conjecture. The external evidence of damage to the bone is so slight and so liable to be fallacious that little reliance can be placed upon it. The associated cere- bral and nervous symptoms also are only presumptive evidence of fracture of the bone. In all cases, however, in which there is reason to suspect that the base is fractured, the patient should be treated on this assumption. It is often found that, when there are no cerebral symptoms present, it is very difficult to convince the patient of the necessity for undergoing treatment, and of the risk involved in his leaving his bed and resuming work. Prognosis in Basal Fractures.—The prognosis depends upon the severity of the cerebral lesions, and on the occurrence of septic intra-cranial complications. Many cases prove fatal within a few hours from the associated injury to the brain, the patient dying from cerebral compression due to haemorrhage. It is possible that the free escape of blood from the nose or ear may in some cases prevent compression, and to a certain extent render the prognosis more favourable. Punctured fractures are frequently fatal from septic complications — meningitis, sinus thrombosis, and cerebral abscess. These complicationsFRACTURES OF THE BASE. 51 are also liable to occur in fractures rendered compound by opening into the nose, pharynx, or ear, but they are less common than might be expected. Treatment.—The general treatment includes that for all head injuries. In a number of cases attended with symptoms of compression benefit has followed trephining for the relief of intra-cranial tension due to haemorrhage. The withdrawal of 30 or 40 cc. of cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture has also proved beneficial in the same way. Local treatment is directed towards preventing septic infection from the mucous surfaces implicated. This is exceedingly diffi- cult in fractures opening into the pharynx and nose. Owing to the general condition of the patient it is usually impossible to employ nasal douching or mouth washes, but spraying of the cavities with peroxide of hydrogen or other antiseptics may be employed with benefit. In fractures of the middle fossa the ear should be washed out, care being taken not to force the fluid through the fracture. The meatus is then plugged with iodoform gauze or antiseptic wool, retained in position by adhesive plaster or a bandage. When there is a persistent escape of blood or cerebro-spinal fluid, the dressing requires to be changed very frequently. In compound fractures of the anterior fossa due to perfora- tion through the orbit, the frontal bone should be trephined, to admit of the removal of loose fragments of bone or of any foreign body which may have entered the skull, and to provide for drainage.52 CHAPTER IV. DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Pyogenic Diseases—Meningitis : Varieties—Abscess : Varieties—Sinus phlebitis—Intra-cranial tuberculosis. Cephaloceles—Meningocele —Encephalocele—Hydreneephalocele—Traumatic Ceplialhydrocele —Hydrocephalus : Varieties—Micrencephaly. Cerebral Tumours. Epilepsy—Hernia cerebri. Surgical affections of cranial nerves— Cervical sympathetic. Pyogenic Diseases.1 The most important intra-cranial diseases which result from infection with pyogenic bacteria are : meningitis, abscess of the brain, and phlebitis of the venous sinuses. The organisms most frequently associated with these conditions are the staphylococcus aureus and the streptococcus, but it is not uncommon to meet with mixed infections in which other bacteria are present—particularly the pneumococcus, the bacillus foetidus, the bacillus coli, and the bacillus pyocyaneus. By far the most common source of intra-cranial infection is chronic suppuration of the middle ear and mastoid antrum, the organisms passing from these cavities to the interior of the skull directly through a perforation of the tegmen tympani or of the wall of the sigmoid groove, or being carried in the blood-stream by the emissary veins. In some cases the infection travels along the sheaths of the facial and auditory nerves. Septic conditions of the nasal cavity and its accessory air sinuses, and compound fractures of the skull, particularly punctured fractures, also are liable to be followed by intra- cranial complications. Infection may be conveyed to the inside of the skull, by way of the emissary veins, from septic wounds of the scalp, or from such infective conditions as erysipelas of the face and scalp, malignant pustule, carbuncles, or boils. 1 We desire here to acknowledge our indebtedness to Sir William Macewen’s work on Pyogenic Infective Diseases of the Brain and Spinal Cord.PYOGENIC DISEASES. 53 At the bedside there is often great difficulty in discriminating between the various intra-cranial diseases that result from pyogenic infection, partly because many of the symptoms pre- sented by the patient are common to all the diseases of this group, but still more because the different conditions are not infrequently associated with one another in various combinations. Thus we may have a localised meningitis spreading to the brain and setting up a cerebral abscess; a sinus phlebitis giving rise to a purulent lepto-meningitis; or a cerebral abscess bursting into the subarachnoid space and producing meningitis. The symptoms of one condition blend with and obscure those of another, and thus lead to difficulties in diagnosis. Meningitis. Pachymeningitis.—This term is applied to inflammation con- lined to the dura mater—a condition which is usually due to the spread of infection from a localised osseous lesion, such as erosion uiL the tegmen tympani in chronic suppuration of the middle ear, of the wall of the sigmoid groove in mastoid disease, or of the posterior wall of the frontal sinus in suppuration of that cavity. It also occurs in cases of septic compound fracture, attended with a mild degree of infection and with imperfect drainage ; and in contusion of the skull without an external wound, the infection taking place through the blood-stream. The outer layer of the dura in contact with the affected por- tion of bone is inflamed, thickened, and covered with a layer of granulations, and between it and the bone there is an effusion of fluid—external pachy meningitis. Up to this point the process is largely protective in its effects ; and gives rise to no symptoms, beyond perhaps some pain in the head. In the majority of cases, however, suppuration occurs between the dura and the bone—suppurative pachymeningitis—and leads to the formation of an extra-dural abscess (Fig. 14). When this happens in association with disease in the middle ear or frontal sinus, it is attended with severe headache, referred to the seat of the abscess, a sudden rise of temperature, preceded by shivering, and by other evidence of septic absorption. Over the situation of the abscess, the scalp becomes markedly swollen and oedematous —a condition which Percival Pott, in 1760, first observed to be characteristic of extra-dural suppuration, hence the name, Pott’s puffy tumour, applied to it. Under these circumstances the abscess is seldom of sufficient size to cause a marked increase in54 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. the intra-cranial tension, or to give rise to localised cerebral symptoms by pressing on the brain. When associated with compound fracture, the abscess usually forms within a few days of the injury, and it may spread over a wider area and come to encroach on the cranial cavity suffici- ently to raise the intra-cranial tension and cause symptoms of compression, or even to press upon cortical centres and produce localised paralyses. The presence of a wound in the scalp permits of discharge, and the puffy tumour does not necessarily form. Treatment.—When the abscess is secondary to middle ear disease, the mastoid is opened, the eroded bone exposed, and sufficient of it removed with rongeur forceps to admit of free drainage. When the infection has spread from the frontal sinus, the skull is trephined in the frontal region, the precise site being indicated by the oedematous area in the scalp, and the diseased bone is removed. In cases of compound fracture, drainage is established by freely enlarging the scalp wound, and removing loose, depressed or inflamed portions of bone, and then treating the wound by the open method. Sometimes the infection spreads from the dura to the adjacent arachno-pia, and sets up a localised lepto-meningitis. This usually results in the formation of adhesions which shut off the infected area from the general arachno-pial space. Pus may form among these adhesions, constituting a sub-dural abscess, and may infiltrate the superficial layers of the cortex (purulent encephalitis, or meningo-encephcilitis) (Fig. 15). The symptoms are similar to those of extra-dural abscess, but may be more severe ; and it is seldom possible to distinguishMENINGITIS. 55 between them before exposing the parts by operation. The treatment is carried out on the same lines. Lepto-Meningitis.—The localised form of lepto-meningitis has already been referred to. Acute General Lepto-Meningitis.—In septic bone lesions, particularly compound fractures, infection of the arachno-pia may take place before protective adhesions form, with the result that a diffuse lepto-meningitis results. The open structure of the arachno-pial membrane favours the rapid spread of the inflammation, which may extend over the surface of the hemi- spheres, or downwards towards the base (basal meningitis), or in both directions. The process is at first attended with a copious effusion of cerebro-spinal fluid into the arachno-pial space and into the ventricles (serous lepto-meningitis), but this fluid rapidly tends to become purulent, the pus forming in a thin layer over the surface of the brain, and in the sulci between the convolutions (purulent lepto-meningitis). The membranes are congested and thickened, the veins of the arachno-pia engorged, and the superficial layers of the cortical grey matter may share in the inflammatory process (encephalitis). Clinical Features.—The earliest and most prominent symptom is the occurrence of violent pain in the head, often referred to the frontal region, or, in cases starting from middle ear disease, to the temporal region. This is accompanied by a sudden rise of temperature, usually without an antecedent rigor, and the temperature remains persistently elevated (102’-105° F.). The patient, especially if a child, is extremely irritable, all his sensations are hyperacute, and he periodically utters a peculiarly sharp, piercing cry.56 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Vomiting, of the cerebral type—that is, unattended with nausea and not related to the taking of food or to gastric dis- turbance—is common, and persists all through the illness. The bowels are usually constipated. The pulse is small and rapid. Starr has pointed out that in meningitis there is an increase in the number of leucocytes in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture, and that organisms also are found in the fluid. As this does not occur in cerebral abscess, this observation may be useful in differential diagnosis. There is a higher leucocytosis in the blood in meningitis than in cerebral abscess. When the inflammation is most marked over the cerebral hemispheres, there may be paralysis of the side of the body opposite to the seat of the original lesion; sometimes there is erratic rigidity of the limbs, sometimes clonic spasms of groups of muscles. In basal meningitis, temporary squinting due to convulsive movements of the ocular muscles, retraction of the head, and an excessively high temperature, are usually prominent features. The pupils at first are equally contracted; later they become dilated and fixed. Gradually the patient becomes unconscious, shows signs of increasing intra-cranial tension, slowing of the pulse, and laboured respiration, and the condition almost always proves . fatal within three or four days. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the source of infection when this is possible, but as a rule little can be done to arrest the spread of the meningitis or to ward off its effects. In cases resulting from a sub-dural abscess in relation to a compound fracture, a septic sinus phlebitis, or an erosion of the tegmen tympani, an attempt should be made, after exposing this, to purify and drain the meningeal spaces. Hitherto the results, however, have not been encouraging. Temporary relief of symptoms may follow the withdrawal of cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture, bleeding by leeches or cupping, or the use of an ice-bag or Leiter’s tubes. The bowels should be freely moved by purgatives or enemata. Cerebral and Cerebellar Abscess. Abscess due to Middle Ear Disease.—The most common cause of abscess in the brain is chronic middle ear disease, and the majority of cerebral abscesses are therefore situated in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Some are due to direct spread from an abscess formed in relation to an erosion of the tegmen tympani, either inside or outside the dura, others to infectionCEREBRAL ABSCESS. 57 carried by the veins, and in this way the infective material reaches the white matter; less frequently infection from the middle ear takes place along the perivascular lymph spaces. Macewen has pointed out that cerebral abscess never occurs from pyogenic organisms passing from the middle ear by way of the internal auditory meatus, although lepto-meningitis may do so. Cerebral abscess is much more frequently met with in the white matter of the centrum ovale than in the cortex. In the majority of cases the abscess is single. The pus from a cerebral abscess is often of a greenish-yellow colour, or it may be dark brown from admixture with broken- down blood-clot; in some cases it is thin and serous and contains sloughs of brain matter. It has frequently an exceedingly foetid odour. In quantity it varies from a few drops to several ounces. The arachno-pia over an abscess usually has a turbid and milky appearance. The brain tissue surrounding an acute abscess is inflamed and infiltrated with pus. In a chronic abscess, on the other hand, it is condensed, and the pus may become encapsulated by the formation of a zone of young fibrous tissue round its periphery. In this condition the abscess may remain “latent” for many weeks or even months. Clinical Features.—The clinical course of a cerebral abscess has been described by Macewen as embracing three distinct stages : the initiatory stage, the stage of the fully-formed abscess, and the terminal stage. The initiatory stage, which may last for from twelve hours to two or three days, rarely comes under the direct observation of the surgeon. He is usually able, however, to elicit a history of the presence of chronic purulent middle ear disease. The patient is somewhat suddenly seized with intense pain, located mainly in the ear and temporal region, but radiating in different directions through the head. He has a rigor, varying in intensity from a slight feeling of chilliness to a severe fit of shivering, and lasting from a few minutes to half an hour. In uncomplicated cases the shivering is not repeated. There is well-marked cutis anserina. During this stage attacks of cerebral vomiting are common. The temperature and pulse rate are somewhat higher than normal. The tongue is foul and coated. The patient may complain of pains in the limbs. Coincidently with the onset of these symptoms the discharge from the ear usually diminishes, or may even cease. Second Stage—Fully-formed Abscess.—In the course of from one to three days the patient gradually passes into a stuporous58 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. condition, which at first bears a close resemblance to that of opium poisoning. The pain in the region of the ear becomes less intense, but the whole of the mastoid and temporal areas are tender on percussion as compared with the unaffected side. Although the patient is quite conscious, his cerebration is slow, he seems unable to sustain his attention for any length of time, and he answers questions “ slowly, briefly, but, as a rule, correctly.” At the same time, while there is no actual paresis, there is a “gradual diminution of the ability to apply his strength.” The temperature falls, and as a rule becomes persistently sub- normal. Rigors are unusual in this stage, their occurrence generally indicating the development of some complication, such as sinus phlebitis. The pulse is full and slow (40 to 60)■ further slowing indicates an increase in the size of the abscess. The respiration is slow and regular. The gastro-intestinal functions are disturbed, and there is loss of appetite, obstinate constipation, and occasionally vomit- ing. There may be retention of urine, and albuminuria. The site of the lesion is usually indicated by localised paralysis. Convulsions are not common, and are of little diagnostic value. Optic neuritis is an inconstant and often misleading symptom. “ The face is expressionless, passive, and cloudy. It may assume a meaningless smile with which the features are not lit: it is too mechanical ” (Macewen). The pressure symptoms bear no direct proportion to the size of the abscess : they depend more upon its site than upon its size. Examination of the ear, as to the character and amount of discharge, and the condition of the membrana tympani and middle ear, must never be neglected. Terviinal Stage.—If left to itself, a cerebral abscess usually ends fatally by causing gradually increasing stupor and coma, or by bursting, either into the ventricles or into the subarachnoid space, and setting up a diffuse purulent lepto-meningitis. Symptoms of Abscess bursting into the Ventricles.—When this happens, the patient suddenly becomes much worse, and dies within a few hours. “ The pupils become widely dilated, the face livid, the respiration greatly hurried, and either shallow or stertorous. The temperature rises within a few hours with a bound from subnormal to 104° or 105° F. : the pulse from 40 or 50 per minute quickly reaches 120 and over. There are muscular twitchings all over the body, possibly associated with convulsions and tetanic seizures, and these are followed by coma and speedy death ” (Macewen). Localisation of Cerebral Abscess.—The presence of a cerebralTEMPORO- SPHENOIDAL ABSCESS. 59 EG CENTRE abscess having been established, the next question is to determine its situation. Temporo-sphenoidal Abscess. — The existence of middle ear disease is always presumptive evidence that the abscess is in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Small abscesses in this lobe may pro- duce no localising symptoms. Those of large size may press indirectly on the motor cortex, on the fibres passing through the internal capsule, or on individual cranial nerves. It is important to observe the order in which paralysis of the opposite side of the body conies on. When it begins in the face and passes successively to the arm and leg, the pressure is on the cortical centres. When the paralysis progresses in the op- posite direction—leg, arm, face —the pressure is on the nerve fibres passing through the in- ternal capsule (Fig. 16). Motor aphasia may result from pressure on the left inferior frontal convolu- tion, while audi- tory aphasia may result from abscess in the posterior part of the first superior temporal convolu- tion. Ptosis, ex- ternal squint, with ~~ Fig. 16.— Diagram illustrating Se- a fixed and dilated " ^nce of ParaIysis bY . abscess m temporo - sphenoidal pupil, may indicate pressure on the ]0-be. (After Macewen.) third nerve of the same side. Abscess in the parietal lobe gives rise to paralysis of the opposite side of the body. Abscess in the occipital lobe pro- duces interference with the visual functions. An abscess in the frontal lobe, even when of large size, may give rise to no localising symptoms. If on the left side, Broca’s convolution may be implicated, and motor aphasia result. Cerebellar Abscess. -—Next to the temporo - sphenoidal lobe, the cerebellum is the most common seat of abscess. Cere- bellar abscess is usually due to spread of infection from a septic thrombosis of the sigmoid sinus, either directly from a sub-dural abscess formed in relation to the walls of the sinus,60 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. or by extension of the thrombotic process along the cerebellar veins. While the abscess is small, it may give rise to few symptoms, and the patient may be able to go about, but as it increases in size serious symptoms develop. The patient suffers from vertigo, and is unable to co-ordinate his movements. If he attempts to walk he reels from side to side; even when sitting up in bed he may feel giddy and tend to fall, usually towards the side opposite to that on which the abscess is situated. The head and neck are retracted, the pulse is slow and weak, and the temperature subnormal. There is frequent yawning, and the speech is slow, syllabic, and jerky. There may be optic neuritis and blindness. There is sometimes unilateral or even bilateral paralysis of the limbs from pressure on the medulla. The respiration is greatly embarrassed, and may occasionally be interrupted for a few minutes, while the heart continues to beat vigorously. This arrest of respiration is especially liable to occur during anaesthesia. Prognosis.-—Abscess of the brain is always a dangerous condition, but is amenable to surgical treatment if this is carried out early and thoroughly. Spontaneous evacuation of a temporo-sphenoidal abscess may take place. through the middle ear. The abscess, however, is much more likely to burst into the sub-dural space or into the ventricles and set up general meningitis, which proves fatal. Treatment.—The abscess having been localised, the skull is opened and the pus removed. Macewen recommends that for temporo-sphenoidal abscess the centre-pin of the trephine should be placed at a point in line with the posterior osseous wall of the external auditory meatus, three-quarters of an inch above the posterior root of the zygoma (Fig. 6). When the abscess is large, the dura may bulge unduly through the opening in the skull, and the pulsation of the brain may not be recognisable. A small abscess, if deeply placed, however, may not affect the cerebral pulsation. The dura is opened near the centre of the trephine circle, and the brain explored by means of a pair of sinus forceps, or a cannula with a blunt point and lateral apertures, passed downwards, inwards, and forwards towards the tegmen tympani. When pus is struck, the blades of the forceps are expanded to admit of its escape and to facilitate the withdrawal of any sloughs which may be present. The cavity may be very gently flushed with sterilised salt solution. As the resilient brain soon obliterates the cavity, it is seldom possible to retain a drainage-tube in position. Iodoform worsted is placed in the wound, and a dressing applied..CEREBELLAR ABSCESS. 61 For cerebellar abscess, in order to avoid the lateral sinus, the trephine is applied about an inch and a half behind and half an inch below the centre of the external auditory meatus. During operations on the cerebellum there is often a temporary cessation of respiration, although the heart continues to act, but as soon as the skull is opened, the breathing is re-established. It is necessary, therefore, to remove the bone as rapidly as possible. Abscess from Causes other than Middle Ear Disease.— From the nasal passages, infection may spread to the inside of the skull directly through the walls of the frontal, ethmoidal or sphenoidal air sinuses, or indirectly by way of the veins, and give rise to a cerebral abscess. The pus is usually in the frontal lobe. The symptoms are similar to those of abscess following middle ear disease, but focal symptoms are seldom present. When the abscess is on the left side motor aphasia may be present. Spontaneous evacuation may take place by the abscess bursting into the nose through the cribriform plate. The treatment consists in trephining through the frontal bone or through the temporal fossa, according to the site of the abscess and its seat of origin. The primary focus of infection must also be dealt with. In septic compound fractures an abscess may form in the cortical grey matter within a few days of the injury from direct spread of infection from the bone and membranes. This is usually associated with a spreading lepto-meningitis, the symptoms of which predominate. The condition usually proves fatal, but by opening up the original wound, removing depressed fragments of bone, and establishing drainage, the patient’s life may be saved. An abscess may develop in the white matter of the centrum ovale some weeks, or even months, after an injury, particularly if a fragment of bone or a foreign body has been driven into the brain. If the infection has spread along the track of the missile the abscess is usually near to the seat of the brain injury, but if it is due to spread of a thrombo-phlebitis it may be at a considerable distance from it, even on the opposite side of the head. These chronic abscesses are usually in the parietal or frontal lobes, and as the pus is encapsulated they may remain latent for long periods, during which they may cause some degree of headache, neuralgic pains in the distribu- tion of the fifth nerve, and occasional rises of temperature. When the abscess becomes active general symptoms, similar to those of other forms of abscess, develop, and there may be62 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. localised paralyses of the opposite side of the body, the distribution of which depends upon whether the cortical centres or the motor fibres are implicated. The treatment consists in opening up the original wound, removing any depressed bone, or foreign body that may be present, and establishing drainage. Disease of the hones of the skull, such as osteomyelitis or syphilitic caries, may be followed by cerebral abscess. Abscesses of pycemic origin are usually multiple, and may occur both in the cerebrum and in the cerebellum ; they are not amenable to surgical treatment. Sinus Phlebitis. Inflammation of the inti’a-cranial venous sinuses is due to the spread of infection from a local focus of suppuration, and while any of the general sources of intra-cranial infection may be the starting-point of the condition, by far the most frequent is chronic suppuration in the middle ear. Among other sources of infection may be mentioned erysipelas of the face or scalp, septic conditions of the mouth or nose, and infective diseases of the bones of the skull. The organisms may reach the affected sinus directly by continuity of tissue, as for instance, when the lateral sinus becomes infected from a focus of suppuration in the mastoid process spreading through the bone to the sigmoid groove and involving the walls of the vessel; or they may reach it by extension of thrombosis in a tributary vein, for example, when the longitudinal sinus is infected from an anthrax pustule of the lip which has caused thrombosis of the emissary vein which passes through the foramen caecum. The pathological changes are the same as occur in the suppurative form of thrombo-phlebitis in the peripheral veins (vol. i. p. 274). The soft clot which forms adheres to the inflamed wall of the sinus, and, being infected with pyogenic bacteria, it soon undergoes purulent disintegration. The infective process may spread backward along tributary vessels, and so give rise to cerebral or cerebellar abscess, or to purulent meningitis ; or it may spread into the internal jugular vein and lead to the development of a diffuse purulent cellulitis along its course. General pysemic infection may take place from pus or bacteria getting into the general circulation, either directly or by reversed flow through tributary veins. Septic emboli are liable63 SINUS PHLEBITIS. to lodge in the lung or pleura, and set up pulmonary abscess, gangrene of the lung, or empyema. Clinical Features.—In all cases pain in the head, referred to the region of the affected sinus, and so severe as to prevent sleep, is an early and prominent feature. The patient is usually excited, hypersensitive, and irritable in the early stages, and becomes dull and even comatose towards the end. Rigors, followed by profuse perspiration, occur early, and increase in frequency as the disease progresses. The temperature is markedly remittent, varying from 103° to 106 F. The pulse is rapid, small, and thready. Loss of appetite, vomiting, and diarrhoea are almost constant symptoms. Fig. 17.—Chart of case of binus Phlebitis following middle ear disease in a boy set. 13. Phlebitis of Individual Sinuses.—Th^lateral or sigmoid sinus, on account of its proximity to the middle ear and mastoid air cells, is that most commonly affected, especially in young adults. With the onset of the phlebitis the discharge from the ear stops. There is severe pain in the ear and violent headache. The temperature rises, but shows marked remissions, and rigors are common. Vomiting is frequently present. Turgescence of the scalp veins draining into this sinus, and oedema over the mastoid, are occasionally observed, but as they accompany various other conditions, are of little diagnostic value. Not infrequently phlebitis spreads to the internal jugular vein, which may then be felt as a firm, tender cord running down the neck. The head is held rigid, sometimes in the position of torticollis.64 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Three clinical types of sinus phlebitis are recognised— pulmonary, abdominal, and meningeal—but it is often im- possible to relegate a particular case to one or other of these groups. Many cases present symptoms characteristic of more than one of the types. In the pulmonary type evidence of septic infection of the lungs appears towards the end of the second week, in the form of dyspnoea, cough, and pain in the side, coarse, moist rales, and dark foetid sputum. Death usually takes place from gangrene of the lung. The brain functions may remain active and acute to the end. In the abdominal type the symptoms closely resemble those of typhoid fever, for which the condition may be mistaken. The absence of a rash and the co-existence of septic middle ear disease are important factors in diagnosis. When the disease is of the meningeal type, symptoms of general purulent lepto-meningitis assert themselves, and soon come to dominate the clinical picture. Evidence of the pres- ence of meningitis may be obtained by lumbar puncture. The mind is at first clear, but the patient is irritable, and later be- comes comatose. The prognosis is always grave on account of the risk of general systemic infection. Treatment. — The primary focus of infection must first be removed. This usually involves clearing out the middle ear and mastoid process. The sigmoid sinus is then exposed either by extending the opening in the mastoid region backwards, or by making a second opening about three-quarters of an inch behind the external auditory meatus. Granulation tissue and pus are frequently found occupying the sigmoid groove and surrounding the sinus, and should be removed. If on palpation the sinus feels firm and tense, it is probably occupied by a disintegrating thrombus, and this should be removed by opening the vessel. With the object of preventing the dissemination of septic material, a ligature should be applied to the internal jugular vein in the neck before the sinus is opened, as was first recommended by Victor Horsley. For the thorough removal of the thrombus it is necessary to expose at least an inch of the sinus. The septic material having been removed, the cavity is purified and stuffed with iodoform worsted. Haemorrhage is seldom serious, and it can readily be controlled by pressure. If the phlebitis is accompanied by other intra-cranial infections, these are of course treated at the same time. The superior longitudinal sinus is liable to be infected65 INTRA-CRANIAL TUBERCULOSIS. from pathogenic lesions of the scalp. There are no symptoms that are pathognomonic, but oedema of the scalp with tur- gescence of its veins, epistaxis, and convulsions followed by paralysis, are those most likely to be met with. The cavernous sinus is usually implicated by spread of the process from other sinuses—for instance, from the petrosal or lateral sinuses—or from the ophthalmic veins in cases of orbital cellulitis. Although at first unilateral, the thrombosis usually spreads across the middle line to the sinus of the opposite side. The special symptoms—exophthalmos, oedema of the eyelids, and paralysis of the ocular nerves—are due to pressure on the structures entering the orbit. Operative interference is seldom feasible in phlebitis of the longitudinal or cavernous sinuses. Intra-cranial Tuberculosis.—Tuberculous meningitis is most frequently met with in patients below the age of twenty, and the infection usually takes place by the blood stream from some focus elsewhere in the body. In cases of tuberculous disease of the middle ear infection may spread to the membranes by way of the internal auditory meatus (Macewen). The arachno-pia, especially at the base, is studded over with miliary tubercles, and an excess of fluid collects in the arachno-pial space and in the ventricles (acute hydrocephalus). At first the symptoms of irritation of the brain predominate : severe headache, photophobia, inequality of the pupils, stiffness of the neck, cutaneous hyperaesthesia, vomiting, and convulsions. Kernig’s sign—pain on flexing the hip while the knee is extended, and inability to extend the knee while in the sitting posture—is present. There is usually obstinate constipation, and the abdomen is retracted. Later, signs of increased intra- cranial tension develop : unconsciousness deepening into coma, paralysis of ocular muscles, rapid pulse, Cheyne-Stokes respira- tion, and sometimes hyperpyrexia. Tubercle bacilli may be discovered in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture (p. 18). The only surgical measure that is justifiable is lumbar puncture, which often affords marked relief of symptoms, although the benefit is only temporary. Duret believes that it does good by withdrawing bacilli and toxins and so prevents or retards dissemination. Localised Tuberculous Nodules sometimes develop in the brain and form definite tumours. They vary in size from a pea to a hen’s egg, are rounded and encapsulated. Sometimes the centre is caseous, sometimes fibrinous or calcified. In children, YOL. II—566 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. they are usually multiple; in adults they may be single—the so-called “ solitary tubercle.” They are most common in the pons, basal ganglia, and cerebellum; but occur also in the cerebral cortex and sometimes in the centrum ovale. They usually originate in the pia and invade the brain substance, but do not as a rule involve the dura. The membranes in the vicinity of the growth are often the seat of tuberculous disease. As these nodules give rise to the same symptoms as other forms of cerebral tumour, 41 nd as their nature can be diagnosed only in exceptional cases, their clinical features and treatment are described with tumours of the brain (p. 70). Cephaloceles. The term cephalocele is applied to a protrusion of a portion of the cranial contents through a congenital deficiency in the bones of the skull. This malformation is believed to be due to an irregularity in development, whereby a portion of the primary cerebral vesicle remains outside the mesoblastic layer of the embryo. It is usually associated with adhesion of the membranes in the region of the fourth ventricle, and with internal hydrocephalus. In many cases the condition is quite incompatible with life. Cephaloceles are covered by the scalp, and are most commonly met with in the occipital region and at the root of the nose ; less frequently at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and in the line of the sagittal suture. Very rarely they occur at the base of the skull and project into the pharynx, the mouth, or the nose, where they are liable to be mistaken for polypi. Cephaloceles vary greatly in size, some being so small as almost to escape detection, while others are larger than a child’s head. Several varieties are recognised. They are known as (1) meningocele, which consists of a protrusion of a cul-de-sac of the membranes, containing cerebro-spinal fluid ; (2) encephalocele, in which a portion of the brain is protruded in addition to the membranes; and (3) hydrencephalocele, in which the protruded portion of brain includes a part of one of the ventricles. Clinical Features.—The meningocele is commonest in the occipital region, where it escapes through a cleft in the bone between the foramen magnum and the occipital protuberance. It forms a tense, smooth, translucent, globular swelling, which may be sessile or pedunculated, and is usually covered by thin, smooth skin in which the vessels are dilated and ntevoid. TheCEPHALOCELES. 67 tumour does not pulsate, but increases in size and tension when the child cries or coughs. It may be diminished in size or even made to disappear entirely by pressure, and so permit of the opening in the bone being felt. This manipulation, however, may be followed by slowing of the pulse, vomiting, loss of conscious- ness, or convulsions. Small meningoceles may remain stationary for a long time, or may even undergo spontaneous cure. Those of larger size usually progress till they eventually burst, and death results from the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid or from septic menin- Fig. 18.—Enceplialocele in child aged 1A. (From a photograph lent by Mr. H. J. Stiles.) gitis. Septic infection may also occur from eczema or from excoriation of the overlying skin. Encephaloceles are much commoner than meningoceles, and usually occur in the frontal region, where they form broad-based, elastic, and pulsatile tumours, which vary greatly in size. The hyclrencephalocele is usually met with in the occipital region, and is generally so large and associated with such great cerebral deformity as to be inconsistent with life. It does not as a rule pulsate. Cephaloceles have to be diagnosed from dermoid cysts, nsevi, cephal-hydrocele (p. 68), and cephal-hsematoma (p. 2). Their recognition is seldom attended with difficulty. If the margins68 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. of the gap in the skull can be distinctly felt, the diagnosis is greatly simplified. Treatment.—It is only small cephaloceles that are amenable to surgical treatment. Those which are large and contain brain sub- stance are best left alone. They should, however, be protected from irritation and septic infection by soft antiseptic dressings. When surgical interference is deemed advisable, it is best to expose the protrusion by reflecting a flap of the scalp, and, after returning the contents, if this be possible, and isolating the neck of the sac, to ligature it, closing the membranes in such a way as to prevent leakage of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Some- times it is necessary to remove the protruded brain matter, to enable the membranes to be closed. On the whole, while the immediate results of operation are satisfactory, the ultimate results are disappointing, as the essential cause of the intra-cranial pressure persists, and the child develops hydrocephalus. The method of tapping the sac and injecting iodine has nothing to recommend it. Traumatic Cephal-hydrocele.—Certain rare cases of simple fracture of the vault occurring in early childhood have been followed by the development beneath the scalp of a localised fluid swelling, which varies in size from time to time and is partially reducible by pressure. In a majority of cases the swelling pulsates synchronously with the heart, and becomes tense on exertion. A distinct opening in the skull may sometimes be felt. The swelling results from laceration of the membranes, and sometimes of the brain-substance, so that the cerebro-spinal fluid of the subarachnoid sjjace, or even of the lateral ventricle, escapes through the opening in the skull and bulges beneath the scalp. When associated, as it frequently is, with mental deficiency or the occurrence of fits, the cyst may be tapped or its neck ligatured (Hogarth Pringle). Otherwise it should be left alone. Hydrocephalus. An excess of cerebro-spinal fluid may collect in the arachno- pial space surrounding the brain, or in the interior of the ventricles, constituting in the former case an external, and in the latter an internal hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus may be acute or chronic. Acute hydrocephalus is practically synonymous with tuberculous meningitis, but it may result from other forms of meningeal inflammation. The excess of fluid is found both in the arachno-pial space and in the ventricles. This condition69 HYDROCEPHALUS. only calls for mention here as attempts have been made to treat it by surgical measures, such as Quincke’s lumbar puncture, or drainage through the occipital fossa. The results, however, have not been encouraging. Chronic Hydrocephalus.—Chronic external hydrocephalus is rare, and usually results from some definite intra-cranial lesion, such as meningitis, tumour, or cerebral atrophy. It is not amenable to surgical treatment. Chronic internal hydrocephalus, on the other hand, is a comparatively common condition. It may be of congenital origin, or may develop in young rickety children, usually as a result of some chronic inflammatory process in the membranes Fig. 19.—Hydrocephalus in a child aged 3^. at the base, the choroid plexuses, or the ependyma of the ventricles, causing obstruction to the outflow of blood through the veins of Galen. The communication between the ventricles and the subarachnoid space, by way of the foramen of Magendie, becomes obstructed, so that the cerebro-spinal fluid is pent up in the ventricles and gradually distends them. The pressure causes the head to enlarge, the fontanelles to bulge, and the bones to be separated from one another, the intervals between the bones being occupied by a thin trans- lucent membrane. The cerebral tissue is greatly thinned out, but the cerebellum and cranial nerves usually remain unaffected. The appearance of the patient is characteristic (Fig. 19). The enormous dome of the skull sumounts a puny and preternaturally70 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. old face; the eyes are pushed downwards and forwards by the pressure on the orbital plates, and the eyebrows are displaced upwards. The head rolls helplessly from side to side ; the child moans and cries a great deal; and vomiting is often a prominent symptom. In most cases the intelligence is defective, and epi- leptic seizures and other functional disturbances of the brain may be present. In mild cases, especially when associated with rickets or syphilis, recovery sometimes takes place, but in the majority the condition progresses, and death results either from convulsions or from some intercurrent disease. Few hydrocephalic subjects reach adult life. Treatment.—Antisyphilitic treatment should be tried in the hydrocephalus of infants and young children. The rachitis element when present must also be treated. Aseptic puncture of the ventricles is sometimes followed by a remarkable improvement in the symptoms, and may even result in apparent cure. An exploring needle is introduced through the anterior fontanelle, to one or other side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and from a half to one ounce of cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn. This is repeated once a week for several weeks. Continuous drainage of the fourth ventricle through an opening made in the occipital region (Parkin), and the establishment of a communication between the ventricular and subarachnoid spaces (Watson-Cheyne), or between the sub- arachnoid space of the spinal cord and the peritoneal cavity, or the retro-peritoneal space (Cushing), have been tried, with little more than temporary benefit, however, in the majority of cases. Ligation of the common carotids has "been followed by improve- ment. Operative treatment, if it is to do good, must be undertaken early, before permanent changes in the brain have taken place. Micrencephaly.—On the supposition that this condition is due to premature closure of the cranial sutures and fontanel les, the removal of long strips, or of triangular or quadrilateral areas of bone from each side of the skull, was suggested and practised by Lannelongue. Portions of the dura mater have also been removed. Although improvement followed these procedures in a few cases, the operation has been abandoned, as the essential defect has been shown to be in the brain itself and not in the skull. Cerebral Tumours. As not more than 10 per cent, of tumours of the brain— using the term tumour in its widest sense—are amenable to71 CEREBRAL TUMOURS. surgical treatment, it is only necessary here to refer to those aspects of this subject that have a distinctively surgical bearing. Various forms of tumour occur in the brain, the most common varieties being tuberculous nodules, syphilitic gummata, gliomata, and sarcomata. Less frequently fibromata, osteomata, and parasitic, haemorrhagic, and other cysts are met with. The tumour may originate in the brain tissue primarily, or may spread thence from the membranes, or from the skull. Clinical Features.—The increase in size of a tumour in the brain inevitably results sooner or later in an increase in the intra-cranial tension, and to this the symptoms are chiefiy due. The earliest and most prominent of the general symptoms are severe paroxysmal headache, optic neuritis, and vomiting which is without relation to the taking of food and is usually un- attended by nausea. These symptoms are seldom absent, and are common to all forms of tumour, wherever situated. Vertigo, general convulsions, and signs of mental deterioration are also present in a considerable proportion of cases. In addition, certain localising symptoms may be present. When, for example, the tumour is situated in the cortex of the Rolandic area, attacks of Jacksonian epilepsy, preceded by an aura, which is usually referable to the centre primarily implicated, are common. The group of muscles first involved, and the order in which other groups become affected, are im- portant localising factors. As the tumour increases in size, these irritative phenomena are replaced by localised paralyses. The tactile and muscular sensations are also disturbed, and motor and sensory aphasia may be present. In some cases localised tenderness on percussing the skull may be of assist- ance in indicating the site of the tumour. When the tumour is sub-cortical, that is, in the centrum ovale, there are no Jacksonian spasms, the motor paralysis is more widespread, and sensation also is lost on the opposite side of the body. There is no special tenderness on percussion. It is not always possible, however, to distinguish between cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and in many cases both areas are invaded. Tumours situated in the region of the internal capsule, and in the deeper parts of the brain, are not attended with Jacksonian spasms, paralysis develops more rapidly than in cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and there is complete loss of sensation on the opposite side of the body. The cranial nerve trunks also are liable to be pressed upon. The effects of tumours in other situations are mentioned at p. 13.72 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. With the further growth of the tumour the symptoms become aggravated, the optic neuritis is followed by optic atrophy and blindness, the patient gradually becomes stuporous, and finally dies in a state of coma. The severity of the symptoms depends to a large extent on the rapidity of growth of the tumour; thus an osteoma growing slowly from the inner table of the skull and implicating the brain, may reach a considerable size without producing cerebral symptoms, while a comparatively small sarcoma or syphilitic gumma of rapid growth may endanger life. A sudden and serious aggravation of symptoms may result from haemorrhage into a soft tumour, such as a glioma. The diagnosis of the pathological nature of a cerebral tumour is generally “hardly more than a guess” (Gowers). At the same time it may be borne in mind that syphilitic gummata occur in adults, from forty to sixty years of age, who have suffered from acquired syphilis, and who may present other evidence of the disease. Severe nocturnal pain which interferes with sleep is often a prominent symptom. Gummata are generally situated on the surface of the brain; they often originate in the dura mater, and when exposed are easily enucleated. They tend to increase somewhat rapidly. Improve- ment in the symptoms may follow the administration of iodides and mercury, but in many cases the growth is very resistant to antisyphilitic treatment. Tuberculous masses occur most frequently in children and adolescents, and other signs of tuberculosis are usually present. The cerebellum is a common seat of these tumours, and they are often multiple. Their growth may be rapid at first, and then become arrested for a time. Spasmodic growth of a tumour strongly suggests its tuberculous nature, and superadded signs of basal meningitis confirm the diagnosis. Gliomata are usually met with in the young; they tend to grow slowly at first, but may take on a rapid growth at any time, and haemorrhage is liable to occur into the substance of the tumour, causing a sudden aggravation of the symptoms. Sarcomata occur between puberty and middle life; they grow slowly, and compress rather than destroy the brain tissue. They are sharply defined from the surrounding cerebral tissue and are therefore more favourable for surgical treatment than gliomata. The prognosis is grave in all forms of brain tumour. Even in syphilitic growths, although the more urgent symptoms may be ameliorated by the use of drugs, recurrence is very liable to occur, and the structural changes induced in the cerebral tissue,CEREBRAL TUMOURS. 73 and the contraction of the cicatrix which results, may permanently interfere with the functions of the brain, or may induce Jacksonian epilepsy. Tuberculous tumours also may become arrested, and may cease for a time to cause symptoms, but permanent cure is extremely rare. We have known a sarcoma to recur as late as live years after removal. Death sometimes occurs suddenly from haemorrhage, from acute oedema, or from implication of vital centres. Treatment.—In all cases the administration of iodides in full doses is indicated, not only with a view to promoting the absorption of the tumour if syphilitic, but because other forms of tumour, especially gliomata, frequently benefit temporarily by this treatment. The question of removal by operation arises in cases where there is reason to believe that the tumour is situated near the surface of the brain and that it is circumscribed and of moderate size. Unfortunately it is only in a very small proportion (5 to 10 per cent.) of cases that these conditions are present and can be recognised before opening the skull. The technique of the operation is described on p. 17. Palliative Operation.—In many cases in which there is no hope of being able to remove the tumour, it is advisable to operate for the relief of symptoms due to excessive intra cranial tension, such as optic neuritis, severe headache, and persistent vomiting. When the site of the lesion can be diagnosed, a large opening is made in the skull over it, the dura is freely opened, and the external wound closed (V. Horsley). If the tumour cannot be located the skull should be opened over a “ silent area ” of the brain, for example, the right temporal region (Sanger). Cushing recommends that the temporal muscle should be split in the direction of its fibres (intermuscular operation) and stitched in position again after the dura has been opened. Spiller and Frazier believe that it is not necessary to open the dura, as the membrane is capable of stretching sufficiently to afford adequate relief of tension. The relief that follows such operations is often remarkable. Lumbar puncture, frequently repeated, has also been practised for the relief of tension in inoperable cases. When surgical treatment is contra-indicated, all that can be done is to palliate the symptoms by bromides, opium, phenacetin, caffein, and other drugs. Epilepsy.—The surgical aspects of Jacksonian epilepsy following head injuries have already been considered (p. 37). For the cure of those forms of epilepsy in which there is no74 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. gross lesion of the brain numerous surgical procedures have been suggested; for example, the making of a permanent opening in the skull to diminish the intra-cranial tension (Kocher); ligation of the carotid and vertebral arteries (Alexander); ligature of the longitudinal sinus at two points several inches apart (Delageniere); excision of the cervical sympathetic cord (Jonnesco); and excision of the cortical centres governing the groups of muscles first affected in the fits (Y. Horsley). From none of these operations, however, have the results been en- couraging. Hernia Cerebri.—This term is applied to a pro- trusion of brain substance through an acquired open- ing in the skull and dura mater. Such an opening may be the result of a com- pound fracture, a gunshot wound, or a surgical oper- ation. The protrusion is essentially due to increased intra-cranial tension, which increased tension may re- sult from the presence of a tumour within the cranium, or may be associated with septic infection of the brain and its membranes. Other things being equal, a hernia is more likely to occur through a small than through a large opening in the skull. When the extruded portion of brain matter is small, it usually pulsates, but as it increases in size and is pressed upon by the edges of the opening through which it escapes, the pulsation ceases, and the herniated portion may become strangu- lated and slough. In cases of compound fracture, and in other conditions associated with necrosis of bone, masses of redundant granulation tissue growing from the soft parts outside the skull may simulate a hernia cerebri. The treatment consists in removing, when possible, the cause of the increased intra-cranial tension. When this is of such a nature that it cannot be removed, steps must be taken to prevent Fig. 20.—Hernia Cerebri after operation for cerebral abscess. The patient recovered. (Mr. J. M. Cotterill’s case.)75 HERNIA CEREBRI. the onset of meningitis, which, if it occur, is usually fatal. When the hernia is soft and vascular, the application of a small ice-bag is sometimes useful in reducing its size. Pressure over the hernia, with the object of returning it to the skull, is to be avoided, as this increases the intra-cranial tension, and induces headache, giddiness, and slowing of the pulse. When the original opening in the skull is too small to admit of the escape of an amount of brain matter sufficient to reduce the tension, it may be enlarged with rongeur forceps. The herniated portion should not be cut away unless it is sloughing, or has become pedunculated. It may be got rid of by painting it with 40 per cent, formalin, which causes a dry, horny crust to form on the surface. This is picked off and the formalin applied again. After the hernia has disappeared and the wound is aseptic, Thiersch-grafting, the transplantation of bone, or the insertion of a celluloid or metal plate, may be employed to close the gap in the skull. Surgical Affections of the Cranial Nerves. Irritation, or more commonly paralysis, of one or more of the cranial nerves may result from lesions implicating their centres or trunks. The lesions of the cerebral centres with which nerve symptoms are most frequently associated are: laceration of the brain, hemorrhage, meningitis, tumours, and syphilitic gummata. The nerve trunks may be contused or torn across, especially in basal fractures which traverse their foramina of exit; or blood may be effused into their sheaths as a result of injuries not attended with fracture. They may also be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions, tumours, gummata, or aneurysms invading the base of the skull. When the nerve is merely contused, or pressed upon by blood clot, the paralysis tends to pass off in the course of a few days. When it is torn across, or compressed by a new growth, the paralysis is permanent. In some traumatic cases paralysis does not come on until a few days after the injury, and is then due either to gradually increasing pressure from blood-clot, or more probably to the onset of septic meningitis or of ascending neuritis. When the trunk of the nerve is affected, the paralysis is on the same side as the lesion ; when the cortical centre is involved, it is on the opposite side. I. The branches of the Olfactory Nerve may be ruptured as76 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. they pass through the cribriform plate, in fractures implicating the anterior fossa of the skull, and there results complete and permanent loss of smell (anosmia). Haemorrhage into the nerve sheath or contusion of the nerve may cause a transitory loss of smell. The trunk of the nerve may be implicated also in tumours and meningitis in the anterior fossa. In all cases of anosmia there is also impairment of the sense of taste. II. Optic Nerve.—Temporary paralysis of one or both optic nerves is a comparatively common result of traumatic effusion of blood into their sheaths; the resulting blindness may pass off in a few days, or may last for some weeks. When a large effusion takes place, the prolonged pressure on the nerve may result in optic atrophy and permanent blindness. Complete severance of the nerve by a bullet, the point of a sharp instrument, or a fragment of bone, results in loss of sight in the eye on the same side. In cellulitis of the orbit, intra-orbital tumours, gummata, and aneurysms in the region of the cavernous sinus, also, the optic nerves may be implicated. Lesions implicating the cortical centre for sight in the occipital lobe give rise to hemianopia—that is, loss of sight in the lateral halves of the fields of vision of both eyes—colour- blindness, subjective sensations of light and colour, and other eye symptoms. Double optic neuritis, followed by optic atrophy, is one of the most constant effects of the growth of a tumour within the skull, and is not uncommon in cases of cerebral abscess and meningitis. III. Oculo-motor Nerve.—One or more of the branches of this nerve may be compressed by extravasated blood, or be contused and lacerated in fractures implicating the region of the sphenoidal fissure. Tumours and aneurysms growing in this region also may press upon the nerve. Sometimes both nerves are implicated, for example, in fractures involving both sides of the anterior fossa, and in tumours, particularly gummata, grow- ing in the region of the floor of the third ventricle. In lesions of the cerebral hemispheres the third nerve is very frequently paralysed. Its cortical centre lies in close proximity to the centre for the face (Fig. 2). ' The most prominent symptoms of complete paralysis are ptosis or drooping of the upper eyelid, external strabismus, and slight downward rotation of the eye. There is also dilatation of the pupil from paralysis of the circular fibres of the iris, and loss of accommodation from pai’alysis of the ciliary muscle. Paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve is fre-AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 77 quently associated with paralysis of other ocular muscles. When all the muscles of the eye are paralysed, the condition is known as “ ophthalmoplegia externa ” ; it is usually due to syphilitic disease in the door of the third ventricle. IV. The Patheticus Nerve, which supplies the superior oblique muscle, may suffer in the same way as the third nerve. When it is paralysed there is defective movement of the eye downward and outward, and the patient may complain of diplopia or double vision when he looks downward. V. Trigeminal or Trifacial Nerve. — The most important surgical affection of this nerve is “ trigeminal neuralgia,” which has already been described (vol. i. p. 353). One or other of the divisions of the nerve may be torn in fractures of the base of the skull, and anaesthesia in the area supplied by it result. In fractures crossing the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the great and small superficial petrosal nerves may be ruptured, with the result that the soft palate and uvula are paralysed and there is difficulty in swallowing ; there are also painful sensations in the ear. When the ophthalmic division is implicated, the conjunctiva is rendered insensitive, and con- junctivitis, which may be followed by ulceration of the cornea, results from exposure to dust and other foreign bodies, which, on account of the anaesthetic condition of the eye, are allowed to remain and cause irritation. VI. Abducens Nerve. — This nerve, which supplies the external rectus muscle, has the longest course within the skull of any of the cranial nerves. In spite of this fact, it is com- paratively seldom torn in basal fractures; but it is prone to be pressed upon by tumours, gummata, or aneurysms in the region of the base of the brain. When it is paralysed, internal strabis- mus results. VII. Facial Nerve.•—Paralysis of this nerve, more or less complete, may result from lesions in its cortical centre or in the region of the internal capsule ; or the nerve may be implicated as it passes through the temporal bone, or in its course outside the skull. Lesions of the nerve trunk between its point of emergence from the brain and the stylo-mastoid foramen are most frequently the result either of fractures implicating the middle fossa of the skull or of chronic suppuration of the middle ear. In fractures passing across the petrous temporal, the nerve may be torn at the time of the injury, or it may become pressed upon by callus later. Considering the frequency of these fractures, this nerve is comparatively seldom damaged.78 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Suppurative disease of the middle ear is a much more common cause of facial paralysis. The nerve, as it traverses the aque- ductus Fallopii, may be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions or granulations, or it may be destroyed by the suppurative process, particularly in young children, as in them the osseous wall of the aqueduct is very thin. It may also be involved in tuberculous and in malignant disease of the middle ear. The nerve is liable to be injured also in the course of opera- tions on the mastoid and middle ear. In complete unilateral facial 'paralysis (Bell’s para- lysis) the affected side of the face is expressionless and “mask-like.” The cheek is flat- tened and smooth, all its folds and wrinkles being obliter- ated. When the patient speaks or smiles, the face is drawn to the sound side (Fig. 21). The eye on the affected side cannot be closed, and on making the at- tempt the eyeball rolls upwards and outwards. The patient cannot wink, and the conjunc- tiva therefore becomes dry, and is irritated by exposure to cold and dust. The tears run over the cheek. From paralysis of the buccinator muscle, there is inability to whistle or to puff out the cheeks, and food collects between the cheek and the gums. The orbicularis oris being also paralysed, the patient is unable to show his upper teeth, and the labial consonants are pronounced indistinctly. The sense of taste is often impaired from involvement of the chorda tympani branch. Sometimes the paralysis is bilateral and, owing to the symmetrical appearance of the face, the condition is liable to be overlooked. In its course outside th.e skull, the facial nerve may be injured in operations on the parotid gland, in resection of the lower jaw, or, the infra-maxillary. branches, in the removal of cervical Fig. 21.—Patient suffering from left facial Para- lysis. Note smoothness of left side of face, imperfect closure of left eye, and deviation of face to right side. (From a photograph lent byllr. Edwin Bramwell.)AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 79 glands. Temporary paralysis may result from inflammatory conditions, such as parotitis, or from blows or pressure over the nerve, for example, by the forceps in delivery. As the nerve breaks up into numerous branches soon after it leaves the stylo- mastoid foramen, the paralysis may be confined to one or more of the branches. In brain lesions, such as haemorrhage, tumour, or abscess, the facial paralysis is less complete than when the nerve trunk itself is implicated. The paralysis affects the muscles of the cheek and angle of the mouth on the opposite side of the face, but does not as a rule involve the fibres supplying the orbicularis palpebrarum or the occipito-frontalis. The chorda tympani nerve escapes, and the sense of taste is therefore retained. Treatment.—In addition to removing the cause when this is possible, the paralysis may be treated by the administration of drugs, such as potassium iodide, strychnin, or iron, by the application of blisters, or by massage and electricity. These measures are most useful in cases due to blows or exposure to cold. When the nerve is accidentally divided in the course of an operation on the face, it should immediately be sutured. When this is impossible or fails, the function of the nerve may be restored by grafting its distal end on to the trunk of the hypoglossal or of the spinal accessory nerve. Facial Spasm.—Clonic contraction of the facial muscles (histrionic spasm) occasionally results from irritative lesions in the cortex or pons. Sometimes all the muscles are involved, sometimes only one, for example, the orbicularis palpebrarum (blepharospasm). This condition may be induced reflexly from irritation of the fifth nerve, notably of branches that supply the nasal cavities and the teeth. The treatment consists in removing any source of peripheral irritation which may be present, in employing massage, and in administering nerve tonics, bromides and other drugs. In severe cases, the facial nerve may be stretched with benefit, either at the stylo-mastoid foramen or on the face. VIII. Auditory Nerve.—The auditory nerve is liable to be damaged along with the facial in fractures which traverse the internal auditory meatus. Both nerves also may be torn across just before they enter the meatus in severe brain injuries apart from fracture. Complete and permanent deafness results. Effusion of blood into the nerve sheath, or into the internal or middle ear, causes transitory deafness, and the patient suffers from noises in the ear, giddiness, and interference with equilibration. IX. The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve is comparatively seldom80 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. injured. When it is compressed by a tumour, for example, in the region of the medulla, there is interference with speech and deglutition, the tongue becomes ulcerated, and oedema of the glottis may supervene. X. The Pneumogastric or Vagus Nerve is seldom injured within the cranial cavity. In the neck, it is liable to be divided or ligatured in the course of operations for the removal of malignant or tuberculous glands, for goitre, or for ligation of the common carotid. Division of the nerve on one side is not as a rule followed by any change in the pulse or respiration. If it is irritated, how- ever, for example, by being grasped with artery forceps, there is inhibition of the heart, and if it is accidentally ligatured, there may be persistent vomiting. Division of the main trunk, or of its recurrent laryngeal branch on one side, results in paralysis of the corresponding posterior crico- arytenoid muscle—the muscle that opens the glottis. This condition is known as unilateral abductor paralysis, ■ and is accompanied by interference with inspiration and phonation. If both nerves are divided, bilateral abductor paralysis results; the vocal cords flap together, producing a crowing sound on inspiration, and embarrassment of the breathing, and tracheotomy may be necessary to prevent asphyxia. The vagus and recurrent laryngeal nerves have been success- fully sutured after having been divided accidentally. XI. Spinal Accessory Nerve.-—This nerve is seldom damaged within the skull. It supplies the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, but as these muscles usually have an additional nerve supply from the cervical plexus, the spinal accessory may be divided, or a considerable portion of it resected, without any serious dis- ablement resulting. This is seen in cases where the nerve has been resected in the treatment of spasmodic torticollis. When, however, the spinal accessory is the only source of supply to these muscles, its division is followed by considerable disable- ment, which appears to depend chiefly on the paralysis of the trapezius. It is liable to be accidentally divided in excising malignant or tuberculous glands from the neck, and the sterno- mastoid or the trapezius, or both, are thus liable to be paralysed. The head is inclined slightly forward, the shoulder is depressed, the arm hangs heavily by the side and is slightly rotated forward, the scapula is drawn away from the spine and rotated on its horizontal axis, and there is slight cervical scoliosis with the concavity towards the affected side. The trapezius is81 THE CERVICAL SYMPATHETIC. markedly wasted, and is, therefore, less prominent in the neck than normal, and the functions of the arm and shoulder are impaired, especially in making overhead movements. When divided accidentally, the nerve should be immediately sutured. Even when the paralysis has lasted for some time, secondary suture should be attempted. Massage, electricity, and the administration of tonics are also indicated. XII. Hypoglossal Nerve.—This nerve has been ruptured in fractures passing through the anterior condylar foramen. It is also liable to be divided in wounds of the submaxillary region— for example, in cut throat, or during the operation for ligation of the lingual artery, or the removal of diseased lymphatic glands. The paralysed half of the tongue undergoes atrophy. When the tongue is protruded, it deviates towards the paralysed side, being pushed over by the active muscles of the opposite side, and speech and mastication may be seriously interfered with. The Cervical Sympathetic.—The cervical sympathetic cord and its ganglia may be injured in the neck from stabs or gun- shot wounds, or in the course of deep dissections in the neck; and in injuries of the lower part of the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord (p. 93) or of the first dorsal nerve root (vol. i. p. 343). Paralysis of the cervical sympathetic is characterised by diminution in the size of the pupil on the affected side. The pupil does not dilate when shaded, nor when the skin of the neck is pinched—“ loss of the cilio-spinal reflex.” The palpebral fissure is smaller than its fellow, and the eyeball sinks into the orbit. There is anidrosis or loss of sweating on the side of the face, neck, and upper part of the thorax, and on the whole upper extremity of the affected side. The sympathetic cord in the neck has been resected along with its ganglia for such varied conditions as exophthalmic goitre, epilepsy, trigeminal neuralgia, and glaucoma. The operation is performed through an incision carried along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. This muscle is pulled forward, the carotid sheath inwards, and the sympathetic cord is exposed lying on the front of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Jonnesco, Jaboulay, and Gerard-Marchant first carried out these operations; their real value is still undetermined. VOL. II—6CHAPTER V. 82 DISEASES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. Suppurative Periostitis and Osteo-myelitis—Tuberculosis— Syphilis— Tumours. Suppurative Periostitis and Osteo-myelitis.—These condi- tions may be the result of infection through the blood-stream, but as a rule they are secondary to wounds, burns, or ulcers of the scalp, or to fractures that have become infected with pyogenic bacteria. Sometimes they follow suppuration in the middle ear and mastoid process. They are occasionally associated with acute cellulitis of the scalp. In some cases suppuration occurs on both aspects of the bone—a point of importance in treatment. The disease is usually ushered in by a rigor, and this is soon followed by the other signs of suppuration—high temperature, pain and tenderness, and the formation of a fluctuating swelling in relation to the bone. When pus forms between the bone and the dura, there is a characteristic oedema of the overlying area of the scalp—spoken of as Pott's puffy tumour—which is of great value as indicating the extent of the disease in the bone, and of the suppuration between it and the dura. When suppuration occurs under the pericranium, an incision gives exit to a quantity of pus, and exposes an area of bare bone. If the incision is made early, this bone may soon be covered by granulations and recover its vitality ; but if operation is delayed, it usually undergoes necrosis. The sequestrum which forms in- cludes, as a rule, only the outer table, but in some cases the whole thickness of the bone undergoes necrosis. In either case the separation of the sequestrum is an exceedingly slow process, and is not accompanied by the formation of new bone. When the whole thickness of the skull is lost, the gap usually becomes filled in by a dense fibrous membrane which is adherent to the dura mater. Serious complications, in the form of septic meningitis,TUBERCULOSIS. 83 cerebral abscess, sinus phlebitis, and general pyaemia, are liable to develop at any time during the progress of the disease. Treatment.—Early, free, and if necessary, multiple incisions are indicated to admit of thorough disinfection of the affected area, and of the establishment of drainage. If the symptoms point to suppuration having occurred between the bone and the dura, the skull should be trephined and the pus removed. Time may be saved by separating the sequestrum with the aid of an elevator or sharp spoon, or by chiselling away the dead part till healthy vascular bone is reached. It is some- times advisable to perform an osteo-plastic operation for the closure of the gap, for example, by raising from an adjacent part of the skull a flap containing scalp, periosteum, and the outer table, and placing it in the gap. A portion of bone taken from one of the lower animals may be used for this purpose. Plates of calcined bone, celluloid, silver, and other materials have also been employed. When a permanent gap is left in the bone, the patient should wear over it a leather or metal shield to protect the brain from injury. In acute suppurative osteo-myelitis the result of infection through the blood-stream, as pus usually forms on both aspects of the bone, it is necessary to trephine the skull to ensure efficient drainage. Tuberculosis of the bones of the cranial vault is usually met with in children. The disease commences in the diploe, and results in the formation of a central sequestrum, around which the tuberculous process spreads. Granulations form between the skull and the dura, and on the outer aspect beneath the pericranium. The sequestrum is slowly thrown off, and when separated is circular, and presents a worm-eaten appearance. The clinical appearances are those of a circumscribed, tender swelling, which at first yields an obscure sensation of fluctuation like that of a gumma; and later, when the pus is no longer confined under the pericranium, assumes the characters of a cold abscess, which gradually becomes superficial and eventually bursts through the skin forming one or more sinuses. The abscess should be laid freely open, all tuberculous granula- tions scraped away, and the sequestrum removed, with the aid of the chisel if it has not already become loose. After healing is completed a depression or gap in the bone remains. Syphilis. — Syphilitic affections occur during the tertiary period of the disease, and usually implicate the frontal and parietal bones. They are described in vol. i. p. 605.84 DISEASES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. Tumours.—Osteoma of the skull has been described with diseases of bone (vol. i. p. 621). Sarcoma.—All forms of sarcoma are met with implicating the bones of the skull. They may originate in the pericranium, in the diploe, or in the dura mater. The tumour grows chiefly towards the surface, but it also tends to involve the dura mater and to invade the cranial cavity, and may thus assume the shape of a dumb-bell. Its growth is usually rapid, and results in the formation of a diffuse soft swelling, which sometimes pulsates, and which sooner or later fungates through .the skin. On account of its rapid growth the tumour is liable to be mistaken for an abscess, and in some cases a diagnosis is only arrived at after making an exploratory incision, and finding that the finger passes through a softened area in the bone. When the cranial cavity is encroached upon, signs of com- pression may ensue. After the tumour has fungated, septic complications within the skull are liable to develop. In all cases the prognosis is extremely unfavourable. If diagnosed sufficiently early, an attempt may be made to remove the tumour, but often the operation has to be abandoned. The bones of the skull may become the seat of secondary growths, by the direct spread of cancer from the soft parts, or by metastasis of cancer or sarcoma from distant parts of the body.CHAPTER VI. 85 THE SPINE AND CORD. Surgical anatomy — Operation of laminectomy — Injuries of the spinal cord: Concussion; “Railway spine'’; Traumatic hcematorrachis; Traumatic kcematomyelia; Total transverse lesions at different levels; Partial lesions—-Injuries of the spinal column: Sprains; Isolated dislocation of articular processes; Isolated fracture of arches and spinous processes; Compression fracture of bodies —Traumatic spondylitis — Fracture - dislocations — Penetrating wounds. Surgical Anatomy.—The spinal column is the central axis of the skeleton, and, in addition to connecting the different parts of the body to one another, it supports the head, furnishes a point of attachment for the ribs, and affords a protecting casement for the spinal cord. The spine is movable in all directions—flexion, extension, lateral flexion, and rotation around the long axis of the column. Flexion is accompanied by compression of the intervertebral discs, and by a slight forward movement of each vertebra on the one below it. This forward movement is checked by the tension of the ligamenta subflava which stretch between the laminae. In the cervical and lumbar regions the range of movement is greater than in the dorsal region. In the infant, the spine is either straight or presents one long antero- posterior curve with its convexity backwards. With the assumption of the erect posture the normal S-shaped curve is developed, the cervical and lumbar segments arching forward, while the dorsal and sacral segments arch backward. Through the skin it is often difficult to identify with certainty the individual spinous processes. The spine of the seventh cervical vertebra —vertebra prominens—is that most readily felt. While the arm hangs by the side, the lower angle of the scapula is on the same level as the seventh dorsal spine. The twelfth dorsal vertebra may be recognised by tracing back to it the last rib. The bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae may be felt through the posterior wall of the pharynx. The epiglottis lies on the same level as the body of the fourth cervical vertebra. The cricoid cartilage corresponds in level to that of the lo\ver border of the sixth cervical vertebra and its transverse process—the carotid tubercle. It is important for surgical purposes to bear in mind that most of the spinous processes do not lie on the same level as their corresponding bodies. The tips of the spines of the cervical and first two dorsal8G THE SPINE AND CORD. vertebrae lie, roughly speaking, opposite the lower edge of their respective bodies ; those of the remaining dorsal vertebrae lie opposite the upper edge of the vertebra below ; while the spines of the lumbar vertebrae lie opposite the middle of their corresponding bodies. (Gowers and Taylor.) The spinal canal contains the spinal cord so suspended within its membranes that it does not touch the bones, and is not disturbed by the movements of the spinal column. The membranes of the cord are continuous with those of the brain. The arachno-pia invests the cord and furnishes a sheath to each of the spinal nerves as it passes out towards the intervertebral foramen. The arachno-pial space is filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, which forms a water-bed for the cord, continuous with that at the base of the brain. The dura mater constitutes the enveloping sheath of the cord. It hangs from the edge of the foramen magnum as a sac, and is connected to the bones only opposite the intervertebral foramina, where it is prolonged on to each spinal nerve as part of its sheath. Between the dura and the bony wall of the canal is a space filled with loose areolar tissue and traversed by large venous sinuses. The dura extends as far as the upper edge of the sacrum. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum to the level of the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrae. One pair of spinal nerves leaves each “segment” of the cord. On leaving the cord the nerves incline slightly downwards towards the foramina by which they make their exit from the canal. The obliquity of the nerves gradually increases, till in the lower part of the canal—from the second lumbar vertebra onward—they run parallel with the filum terminale and constitute the cauda equina. It is to be borne in mind that only the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae lie even approximately opposite their corresponding segments in the cord. Owing to the obliquity of the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and the fact that the cord is relatively shorter than the canal, the tips of the dorsal spines lie a considerable distance lower than their corresponding segments. Functions. — The essential function of the spinal cord is to transmit motor and sensory impulses between the brain and the rest of the body. The general course of the fibres by which these impulses travel has already been described (p. 11). In the grey matter of the cord there are groups of nerve cells— “centres”—which govern certain reflex movements. The most im- portant of these—the centres for the rectal, the vesical, and the patellar reflexes—are situated in the lumbar enlargement of the cord. In the great majority of cases of spinal disease or injury coming under the notice of the surgeon the symptoms are bilateral, that is, are of the nature of paraplegia, and the whole of the body below the level of the segment affected is involved in the paralysis. Lesions affecting only one-half of the cord are rare and give rise to symptoms which are exceed- ingly complicated. When the lesion implicates the nerve-roots only, the symptoms are confined to the area supplied by the affected nerves. Operation of Laminectomy.—As the operation for opening the spinal canal—laminectomy—will be frequently referred to in the succeeding pages, it is convenient to describe it here. The patient is placed either prone or lying on his left side withOPERATION OF LAMINECTOMY. 87 a pillow supporting the chest, and a longitudinal or semilunar incision, from four to six inches long, is made so as to expose the spinous processes of the vertebrae to be dealt with. When there are signs of fracture of the neural arches, the centre of the incision should lie over the broken vertebra. When there are no signs of fracture, the site of the incision is determined by the spinal symptoms. The muscles, along with the periosteum, are separated from the spines and laminae, and the hannorrhage, which is often very free, is arrested with forceps. The inter- spinous ligaments are then divided with scissors, and the spines snipped off at their bases with bone pliers. The ligamenta subdava are next divided close to the bone and the laminae sawn across and levered out, or cut away with rongeur forceps. The fatty tissue outside the dura is separated, and any veins that are torn are ligatured. The extra-dural space is now examined by pushing aside the cord, and any blood-clots or fragments of bone which may be present are removed. If it is necessary to open the dura, it should be securely sutured again to prevent leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. The divided muscles are brought together with catgut sutures, but, as there is usually a good deal of oozing for some hours after the operation, a large rubber drainage tube should be inserted down to the gap in the bone, and left in position for forty-eight hours. Special care must be taken to avoid soiling of the dressings by discharges from the paralysed bowel and bladder. Lumbar puncture is described at p. 18. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. As the clinical importance of a spinal injury depends almost entirely on the degree of damage done to the cord, we shall consider injuries of the cord before those of the vertebral column. They will be described under the headings : Concussion of the Cord; “ Railway Spine ”; Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage; Total Transverse Lesions ; and Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve- roots. Concussion of the Spinal Cord.—It is necessary to restrict this term to such injuries as implicate the cord alone, apart from lesions of the vertebrae, or of the spinal ligaments or membranes. In this limited sense concussion of the cord is extremely rare. The term concussion of the cord has only a clinical signifi- cance—its pathological equivalent is “ contusion of the cord.” It can no longer be believed that the symptoms are due to aTHE SPINE AND CORD. 88 molecular shaking of the cord or to mere shock. In all cases that have been thoroughly investigated, definite lesions have been found usually in the form of minute haemorrhages into the grey matter of the cord, or into the membranes (Kocher, Byrom Bramwell). These haemorrhages may be due to squeezing or tearing of the cord or of the emerging nerve-roots by a partial and temporary displacement of a vertebra, or to violent distortion of the spine; or they may be produced by a disturbance of the cerebro-spinal fluid, in the same way as the corresponding lesions which accompany concussion of the brain. The condition is commonly met with in miners as a result of a mass of coal falling on the back, or it may occur when a rider is thrown from his horse and lands on his back. The most constant symptoms are temporary retention of urine requiring the use of the catheter, and transient loss of power and numbness in the legs. Simple concussion of the cord is practically never attended with the symptoms characteristic of “railway spine” —a condition with which it is often confused—and it is very rarely, if ever, followed by organic disease of the cord (Byrom Bramwell). The treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed, preferably in the prone position, applying ice-bags to the spine, and administering ergot when bleeding is suspected. The bladder must be emptied by the catheter if necessary. “Railway Spine.”—This term is employed to indicate a peculiar disturbance of the nervous system which frequently develops in persons who have been in railway accidents, and which may be described as a traumatic neurasthenia. The condition is seldom, if ever, met with in its characteristic form after injuries sustained in any other way. It is a remarkable fact that it seldom occurs in railway employees, or in passengers who sustain gross injuries, such as fractures or lacerated wounds. Clinical Features.—The patient usually gives a history of having been forcibly thrown backwards and forwards across the carriage at the time of the accident. He is stunned and dazed for a moment, or, it may be, is little the worse at the time, and is able to continue his journey. On reaching his destination, however, he feels weak and nervous, and complains of pain in his back and limbs. There is no local sign of injury, beyond, perhaps, slight bruising of the back. For a few days he may be able to attend to business, but eventually feels unfit for it and has to give it up. The symptoms that subsequently develop are for the most part purely subjective, and they vary widely in different cases.‘ RAILWAY SPINE.’ 89 They usually include a feeling of general weakness, nervousness, and inability to concentrate attention on work or on business matters. The patient is sleepless, or his sleep is disturbed by terrifying dreams. His memory is defective, or rather selective, as he can usually recall the circumstances of the accident with clearness and accuracy. He becomes irritable and emotional. He complains of sensations of weight or fulness in the head, and of temporary giddiness. There is weakness of vision and photo- phobia, but there are no ophthalmoscopic changes. He is hypersensitive to sounds and sometimes complains of noises in the ears. He has pain in the back on making any movement, and there is a diffuse tenderness or hypersesthesia along the. spine. There is weakness of the limbs, sometimes attended with numbness, and he is easily fatigued by walking. There may be loss of sexual power and irritability of the bladder ; retention is extremely rare. The patient tends to lose weight, and may acquire an anxious careworn expression, and appear prematurely aged. In examining the patient special attention should be directed to the condition of the deep reflexes and to the state of the muscles, as any alteration in the reflexes or atrophy of the muscles indicates that some definite organic lesion is present. This condition is not to be confused with “ concussion of the cord.” It will be observed that the symptoms of so-called “ railway spine ” are almost entirely referable to derangement of the brain rather than of the cord. There is, however, no evidence of organic disease in any part of the central nervous system (Byrom Bramwell, Kocher). The pain in the back is usually the result of muscular sprain and not of lesions of the cord or nerve-roots. As the symptoms are so entirely subjective, it is often extremely difficult to exclude the possibility of malingering. So long as litigation is pending the patient derives little benefit from treatment. After his mind is relieved by the settle- ment of his claim however—whether favourable to him or not— his health is usually restored by the general tonic treatment employed for neurasthenia. Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage. — Haemorrhage into the spinal canal is a common accompaniment of all forms of injury to the spine. The lower cervical region is the most common seat of such haemorrhage. The blood may be effused around the cord (extra-medullary), or into its substance (intra-medullary). Extra - medullary Haemorrhage — Hcemato7'raehis. — The symptoms associated with extra-medullary haemorrhage are atTHE SPINE AND CORD. 90 first of an irritative kind — muscular cramps and jerkings, radiating pains along the course of the nerves pressed upon, and hyperaesthesia. It is only when the blood accumulates in sufficient quantity to exert definite pressure on the cord that symptoms of paralysis ensue, and it is characteristic of extra- medullary haemorrhage that the paralysis comes on gradually. When the effusion is in the cervical region—the commonest situation—the arms are more affected than the legs, which may only exhibit an exaggeration of the knee-jerks. Blood may trickle down the canal and collect at a level lower than that of the lesion which causes the bleeding, and produce paralysis which slowly spreads from below upwards—gravitation para- plegia (Thorburn). The patient should be confined to bed, preferably in the prone position; ice-bags are applied over the spine; ergot is administered internally; and the bladder and bowels are attended to. When there is evidence of progressive pressure on the cord the blood should be removed by spinal puncture if possible, or by laminectomy performed at the seat suggested by the symptoms. Inti n-medullary Haemorrhage—Hcematomyelia.—Traumatic haemorrhage into the substance of the cord occurs almost invari- ably in the lower cervical region, and results from forcible stretching of the cord by acute flexion of the neck. The blood is usually effused into the anterior cornua of the grey matter and into the central canal. The severity of the clinical features depends upon the extent of the lesion. In contrast with what results in extra-medullary haemorrhage, paralytic phenomena predominate, and come on immediately after the injury. When the haemorrhage is only sufficient to cause pressure on the cord the paralysis is usually most marked in the lower extremities because the conducting fibres are pressed upon. This is associated with evanescent anaesthesia for temperature and pain, while tactile sensibility is preserved. There is retention of urine and faeces, and, in young men, priapism. As the fibres which supply the dilator pupillae are involved, the pupils are contracted. The symptoms soon subside, sensation being restored before motion, and recovery may be comparatively rapid. When the blood extravasated in the cord causes disintegration of its substance, there is persistent paralysis with atrophy, and anaesthesia in the area supplied from the segments of the cord directly implicated. As the lesion is usually in the upper part91 TRAUMATIC SPINAL HAEMORRHAGE. of the cord it is the arms that are most frequently affected. At the same time there may be transitory paralysis of the most distant parts—e.g. the feet—from pressure on the conduct- ing fibres. Except that operative treatment is contra - indicated, the treatment is the same as for extra-medullary haemorrhage. Traumatic Lesions of the Cord. Gross lesions of the cord are usually the result of severe injuries of the spine, stabs, or gun-shot wounds. Total transverse lesions, that is, those in which the cord is completely crushed or torn across, are much more common than partial lesions. Total transverse Lesions.—Crushing or tearing of the whole thickness of the cord is an almost invariable accompani- ment of a complete dislocation or of a fracture-dislocation of the spine. Even when the displacement of the bones is only partial and temporary, the cord may be completely torn across. Similar lesions may result from bullet-wounds (vol. i. p. 230). The clinical features vary with the level at which the cord is injured, and the diagnosis as to the nature and site of the lesion is to be made by a careful analysis of the symptoms. By gently passing the fingers under the patient’s back as he lies recumbent, any irregularity which may be present in the spinous processes or laminae may be detected, but movement of the patient to admit of a direct examination of the local injury to the spine is attended with considerable risk, and should as far as possible be avoided. Immediate Symptoms.—At whatever level the cord is damaged, there is immediate and complete paralysis of motion and sensa- tion (paraplegia) below the seat of injury. The paralysed limbs are flaccid. On careful examination a narrow zone of hyper- esthesia may be mapped out above the anaesthetic area, and the patient may complain of radiating pains in the line of the nerves derived from the segments of the cord directly implicated. In complete transverse lesions the paralytic symptoms are sym- metrical. Any marked difference on the two sides indicates an incomplete lesion. Retention of urine and retention or incontinence of faeces are constant symptoms. In young men priapism is common—the corpora cavernosa are filled with blood without actual erection. There is evidence of vaso-motor paralysis in the form of dilata-92 THE SPINE AND CORD. tion of the subcutaneous vessels, and local elevation of tempera- ture in the paralysed parts. The tendon reflexes are abolished. Unless regularly emptied by the catheter, the bladder be- comes distended, and there is dribbling of urine—the overflow Fig. 22.—Distribution of the Segments of the Spinal Cord. (After Koeher.) from the full bladder. The constant use of the catheter involves considerable risk of infection of the bladder unless the most rigid precautions are adopted. There is always considerable risk of hypostatic pneumonia. Trophic sores are very liable to occur on parts subjected to pressure, such as the sacrum, the scapulas, the heels, and the elbows.93 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE CORD. Later Symptoms.—These are the result of descending degenera- tion taking place in the antero-lateral columns of the cord. There are often violent and painful jerkings of the muscles of the limbs, and the muscles become rigid and the limbs flexed. After a time the reaction of degeneration is exhibited by the paralysed muscles. Injuries of the Cord at different Levels.—Cervical Region.— Complete lesions of the first four cervical segments—that is above the level of the disc between the third and fourth cervical verte- brae—are always rapidly, if not instantaneously, fatal, as respira- tion is at once arrested by the destruction of the fibres of the Fig. 23.—Attitude of Upper Extremities in Traumatic Lesions of the Sixth Cervical Segment. The prominence of the abdomen is due to gaseous dis- tension of the bowel. phrenic nerve. It is from this cause that death results in judicial hanging. In lesions between the fifth cervical and first dorsal segments inclusive, all four limbs are paralysed. Sensation is lost below the second intercostal space. The parts above this level retain sensation as they are supplied by the supra-clavicular nerves which are derived from the fourth cervical segments. Recession of the eyeballs, narrowing of the palpebral fissures, and con- traction of the pupils, result from paralysis of the cervical sympathetic. Respiration is almost exclusively carried on by the diaphragm, and hiccup is often persistent. There is at first retention of urine, followed by dribbling from overflow, and sugar is sometimes found in the urine. Priapism is common.94 THE SPINE AND CORD. The pulse is slow (40-50) and full; and the temperature often rises very high—a symptom which is always of grave omen. When the lesion is confined to the sixth cervical segment the arms assume a characteristic attitude, as a result of the con- traction of the muscles supplied from the higher segments. The upper arm is abducted and rotated out, the elbow is sharply flexed, and the hand supinated and flexed (Fig. 23). Sensation is retained along the radial side of the limb. Lesions of the lower cervical segments are usually fatal in from two or three days to as many weeks, from embarrassment of respiration or hypostatic pneumonia. When the lesion is confined to the first dorsal segment the attitude of the arm is usually that of slight abduction at the shoulder and flexion at the elbow, the forearm lies semipronated on the chest or belly, and there is slight flexion of the fingers. There is complete anaesthesia as high as the level of the second interspace, and along the distribution of the ulnar nerves (Fig. 22); the respiration is entirely diaphragmatic ; and the ocular changes depending on paralysis of the cervical sym- pathetic are present. Dorsal Region.—In injuries of the dorsal region—second to eleventh dorsal segments inclusive—the anaesthesia below the level of the lesion is complete and its upper limit runs horizontally round the body, and not parallel with the intercostal nerves. Above the anaesthetic area there is a zone of hyperaesthesia, and the patient complains of a sensation as if a band were tightly tied round the body—“girdle-pain.” The motor paralysis and the anaesthesia are co-extensive. The intercostal muscles below the seat of the lesion and the ab- dominal muscles are paralysed. The respiratory movements are thus impeded, and, as the patient is unable to cough, mucus gathers in the air passages and interferes with respiration. As the patient is unable to aid defecation or to expel flatus by straining, the bowel is liable to become distended with faeces and gas, and the meteorism which results adds to the embarrassment of respiration by pressing on the diaphragm. There is retention of urine followed by dribbling from overflow. As the reflex arc is intact there may be involuntary and unconscious micturition whenever the bladder fills. If septic infection of the bladder and the formation of bed- sores are prevented, the patient may live for months or even for years. At any time, however, septic infection of the bladder may occur and spread to the kidneys, setting up a95 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE CORD. septic pyelonephritis; or the patient may develop an ascending- myelitis, and these conditions are the most common causes of death. Lumbo sacral Region.—All the spinal segments representing the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves lie between the level of the eleventh dorsal and first lumbar vertebra-. Injuries of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar vertebras, therefore, may produce com- plete paralysis within the area of distribution of the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The anaesthesia reaches to about the level of the umbilicus. There is incontinence of urine and faeces from the first. Priapism is absent. Bed-sores and other trophic changes are common, and there is the usual risk of septic com- plications in relation to the urinary tract. Cauda Equina.—As the cord terminates opposite the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, injuries below this level only implicate the cauda equina. The extent of the motor and sensory paralysis varies with the level of the lesion and with the particular nerves injured. Sometimes it is complete, some- times selective. As a rule all the muscles of the lower extremity are paralysed, except those supplied by the anterior crural, obturator, and superior gluteal nerves. The perineal and penile muscles are also implicated. There is anaesthesia of the penis, scrotum, perineum, lower half of the buttock, and the entire lower extremity, except the front and outer aspects of the thigh, which are supplied by the external cutaneous nerve and the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. There is incontinence of urine and faeces. The prognosis is more favour- able than in lesions affecting the cord itself, and the only risk to life is the occurrence of septic complications. Treatment.—When the cord is completely divided no benefit can follow operative interference. The treatment of patients suffering from total transverse lesions is chiefly directed towards the prevention of septic complications from cystitis and bed- sores. Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve-roots.-—Partial lesions of the cord, such as bruises, lacerations, or partia] ruptures, usually result from distortions or incomplete fractures and dislocations of the spine, or from bullet wounds (vol. i. p. 230). They are comparatively rare. When the nerve-roots alone are injured sensory phenomena predominate. Formication, radiating pains, and neuralgia are present in the area of distribution of the nerves im- plicated. There is motor paresis or paralysis, which may disappear either suddenly or gradually, or may persist and beTHE SPINE AND CORD. 96 followed by marked atrophy of the muscles concerned. In con- trast to what is observed from pressure by tumours and in- flammatory products, twitchings and cramps are rare. In partial lesions of the cord the motor phenomena pre- dominate. Paresis extends to the whole of the motor area below the seat of the lesion, but the weakness is more marked on one side of the body. The distal parts—feet and legs— suffer more than the proximal—arms and hands. The paresis develops slowly, may vary in extent and degree, and may soon improve. Yaso-motor disturbances accompany the motor symptoms. Irritative phenomena, such as twitchings or con- tractures, may come on later. Sensory disturbances may be entirely absent. When present they are incomplete, and are chiefly irritative in character. They may not reach the same level as the motor phenomena, and the different sensory functions are unequally disturbed in the areas corresponding to the several nerve-roots. There is sometimes a combination of hypersesthesia on one side and anaesthesia on the other. The deep reflexes, particularly the knee-jerks, may be absent at first, but they soon return, and are usually exaggerated. Retention of urine is not always present even when the limbs are completely paralysed, as the fibres of one side of the cord are sufficient to maintain the functions of the bladder. The patient may be aware that the bladder is full, although he is unable to empty it. Similarly sensation in the rectum and anus may be retained although the control of the sphincters is lost. Priapism may be present, but tends to disappear. In partial lesions the difficulties of diagnosis are sometimes increased by the occurrence of haemorrhage into the substance of the cord, so that symptoms of generalised pressure are superadded to those of the partial lesion. In time the symptoms due to the intra-medullary haemorrhage may pass off, but those due to the tearing of the cord persist. The prognosis is generally favourable, but must be guarded, as permanent organic changes in the cord may take place and prevent complete recovery. Septic infection from bed-sores or from the urinary tract is the most common cause of death in cases which terminate fatally. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for total lesions. Laminectomy, however, is indicated when there is reason to believe that the pressure is due to some cause, such as a blood-clot or a displaced fragment of bone, which is capable of being removed.INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 97 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. For purposes of clinical study it is convenient to distinguish between partial and complete lesions of the spinal column. Partial lesions include twists or sprains, isolated dislocations of articular processes, isolated fractures of the arches and spinous processes, and isolated fractures of the vertebral bodies. The most important complete lesions are total dislocations and fracture-dislocations. In partial lesions the continuity of the column as a whole is not broken, and the cord sustains very little damage, or may entirely escape; in complete lesions, on the other hand, the column is broken and the cord is always severely damaged. Twists and dislocations are most common in the cervical region, that is, in the part of the spine where the forward range of movement—flexion—is greatest. Fractures are most common in the lumbar region, where flexion is most restricted. Fracture- dislocations occur where the range of flexion is intermediate, that is, in the dorsal region. In all lesions of the spine accompanied by displacement the upper segment is displaced forwards. Twists or sprains are produced by movements which suddenly put the ligamentous and muscular structures of the spine on the stretch; in other words, by lesser degrees of the i same forms of violence as produce dislocations. When the interspinous and muscular attachments alone are torn, the effects | are confined to the site of these structures, but when the ligamenta ’ subflava are involved, blood may be extravasated and infiltrate the space between the dura and the bone and give rise to symptoms of compression of the cord. The nerve-roots emerging in relation to the affected vertebrae may be stretched or lacerated, and as a result radiating pains may be felt in the i area of their distribution. In the cervical region distortion usually results either from forcible extension of the neck—for example, from a violent blow or fall on the forehead forcing the head backwards—or from forcible flexion of the neck. The patient complains of severe | pain in the neck, and inability to move the head, which is often rigidly held in the position of wry-neck. There is marked tenderness on attempting to carry out passive move- !i ments, and on making pressure over the affected vertebrae or on the top of the head. The maximum point of tenderness in- dicates the vertebra most implicated. In diagnosis, fracture and VOL. II—798 THE SPINE AND CORD. dislocation are excluded by the absence of any alteration in the relative positions of the bony points, and by the fact that passive movements, although painful, are possible in all directions. In the lumbar region sprains are usually due to over-exertion in lifting heavy weights, or to the patient having been suddenly thrown backwards and forwards in a railway collision. The attachments of the muscles of the loins are probably the parts most affected. The back is kept rigid, and there is pain on movement, particularly on rising from the stooping posture. Treatment.—Unless carefully treated, a sprain of the spine is liable to cause prolonged disablement. The patient should be kept at rest in bed, and, when the injury is in the cervical region, extension should be applied to the head with the nape of the neck supported on a roller-pillow. Early recourse should be had to massage, but active movements are forbidden till all symptoms have disappeared. In patients predisposed to tuber- culosis, the period of complete rest should be materially prolonged. Isolated Dislocation of Articular Processes.—This injury, which is most frequently met with in the cervical region and is nearly always unilateral, is commonly produced by the patient falling from a vehicle which suddenly starts, and landing on the head or shoulders in such a way that the neck is forcibly flexed and twisted. The articular process of the upper vertebra passes forward, so that it comes to lie in front of the one below. The pain and tenderness are much less marked than in a simple twist, as the ligaments are completely torn and are therefore not in a state of tension. The patient often thinks lightly of the condition at the time of the accident, and may only apply for advice some time after on account of the per- sistent deformity. The head is flexed and the face turned towards the side opposite the dislocation, the attitude closely resembling that of ordinary wry-neck. The bony displacement is best recognised by palpating the transverse process of the dislocated vertebra. In the case of the upper vertebrae this is done from the pharynx, in the lower between the sterno-mastoid and the trachea. There is pain on attempting movement, and tenderness on pressure, particularly on the side that is not displaced, as the ligaments there are on the stretch. There are often radiating pains along the line of the nerves emerging between the dislocated vertebrae. As the bodies are not separ- ated damage to the cord is exceptional. Treatment.—Reduction should be attempted at once, before the vertebrae become fixed in their abnormal position. UnderCOMPRESSION FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 99 anaesthesia, gentle extension is made on the head by an assistant, and the abnormal attitude is first slightly exaggerated to relax the ligaments and to restore mobility to the locked articular processes. The head is then forcibly flexed towards the opposite side, after which it can be rotated into its normal attitude, (Kocher). Haphazard movements to effect reduction are attended with risk of damaging the cord. After reduction has been effected, the treatment is the same as that of a sprain. Isolated Fractures of the Arches and Spinous Processes.— These injuries usually result from direct violence, such as a blow on the back or a bullet wound, and are accompanied by bruising of the overlying soft parts, irregularity in the line of the spines, and by the ordinary signs of fracture. They are most common in the lower cervical and in the dorsal regions, where the spines are most prominent and therefore most exposed to injury. In many cases there are no symptoms of damage to the cord or spinal nerves, but when both laminae give way the posterior part of the arch may be driven in and cause direct pressure on the cord, or blood may be effused between the bone and the dura. In such cases immediate operation is indicated. When there are no cord symptoms, the treatment consists in securing absolute rest, with the aid of extension, if necessary, for several weeks until the bones are reunited. Isolated Fracture of the Bodies—“Compression Fracture.” —The “ compression fracture ” consists in a crushing from above downwards of the bodies—and the bodies only—of one or more vertebrae. It is due to the patient falling from a height and landing on the head, buttocks, or feet in such a way that the force is transmitted along the bodies of the vertebrae, while the spine at the same time is hexed. If the patient lands on his head the compression fracture usually involves the lower cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae. When he lands on his buttocks or feet it is usually the lumbar or the lower dorsal vertebrae that are fractured (Fig. 24). The patient is unable to walk, stand, or sit, and lies helpless. As a rule there are no external signs of injury over the spine. The sternum, however, is often fractured, and irregularity and discoloration may be detected on examining the front of the chest. The recognition of a fracture of the sternum should always direct attention to the spine. On careful examination of the back in the region injured, a more or less marked pro- jection of the spinous processes may be recognised. In the cervical and lumbar regions this projection may merely obliterate the normal concavity. The spinous process whichTHE SPINE AND CORD. 100 forms the apex of the projection belongs to the vertebra above the one that is crushed. There are seldom marked signs of pressure on the cord, but the nerves emerging in relation to the damaged vertebrae may be bruised, and this gives rise to girdle-pain. Local tenderness is elicited on pressing over the affected vertebrae or on the head and shoulders. As might be expected from the nature of the accident producing this lesion, it is often associated with serious injuries to the head, limbs, or internal organs which gravely affect the prognosis. The treatment consists in taking the pressure off the injured vertebrae in order that the reparative material may be laid down in such a way as to restore the integrity of the column. In the cervical region, extension is applied to the head, and a roller-pillow placed be- neath the neck. In the dorsal and lumbar regions, the extension is applied through the lower limbs, and the pillow placed under the loins. The patient is confined to bed for six or eight weeks, and before he gets up a poroplastic or plaster of Paris jacket is applied. This is worn for a month or six weeks. Traumatic Spondylitis.—This con- dition is liable to develop in patients who have sustained a severe injury to the back. It is believed to originate in a compression fracture which has not been recognised, and is probably due to the callus thrown out for the repair of the fracture being subjected to strain and pressure too early, or to a progressive softening of the injured vertebra and of the bodies of those adjacent to it. This leads to an alteration in the shape of the affected bones. The usual history is that some considerable time after the patient has resumed work he suffers from pain in the back, and radiating pains round the body and down the legs. He becomes more and more unfit for work, and a marked projection appears in the back and may extend over several vertebrae (Fig. 25). While the condition is progressive, the prominent vertebrae are painful and tender. In course of time the softening process is arrested, and the affected bones become fused, so that the area Fig. 24.—Compression Frac- ture of Bodies of Third and Fourth Lumbar Vertebra. Woman set. 28, who fell three storeys and landed on the buttocks.FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 101 of the spine involved becomes rigid and permanent deformity results. Dislocations and Fracture - Dislocations. — It is seldom possible at the bedside to distinguish between a complete dis- location of the spine and a fracture-dislocation. Fracture- dislocation is by far the more common lesion of the two, and is the injury popularly known as a “ broken back.” It may occur in any part of the column, but is most frequently met with in the dorso-lumbar region. It usually results from forcible flexion of the spine, as, for example, when a miner at work in the stooping posture is struck on the shoulders by a heavy fall of coal. The spine is acutely bent, and breaks at the angle of flexion and not at the point struck. The lesion consists in a complete bilateral dislocation of the articular processes, together with a fracture through one or more of the bodies. This fracture is usually oblique, running downwards and forwards. The upper fragment of the body with the segment of the spine above it is dis- placed downwards and forwards, and the cord is crushed between the posterior edge of the body of the lower vertebra and the arch of the vertebra above it (Fig. 26). In almost every case the cord is damaged beyond possibility of repair. Total dislocation, in which the ar- Fig. 25.—Traumatic Spon- ticular processes on both sides are dis- dylitis aflecting Lower placed and the contiguous mterverte- following compression bral disc separated, is rare, and is met fracture, with chiefly in the lower cervical region. Clinical Features.—The outstanding symptoms of total lesions are referable to the damage inflicted on the cord. The diagnosis should always be made by a consideration of the mechanism of the injury and the condition of the nerve functions below the lesion. On no account should the patient be moved about to enable the back to be examined, as this is attended with con- siderable risk of increasing the displacement and causing further crushing of the cord. On passing the fingers underTHE SPINE AND CORD. 102 the patient’s back as lie lies recumbent, it is usually found that there is some backward projection of the spinous processes, the most prominent process being that of the broken vertebra. The spinous process immediately above it is depressed as the upper segment has slipped forward. Pain, tenderness, swelling and discoloration may be present over the injured vertebrae. There is complete loss of motion and sensation below the seat of the lesion. The symptoms of total transverse lesions of the cord at different levels have already been described (p. 93). Treatment.—An attempt may be made to reduce the displacement under anaesthesia. Gentle traction in the long axis of the spine is made by assistants, while the surgeon attempts to mould the bones into position. No special manipulations are necessary as the ligaments are all extensively lacerated, and the bones are, as a rule, readily replaced. A roller-pillow is placed under the seat of the fracture to allow the weight of the body above and below to exert gentle traction, and so to relieve the cord of pressure. Operative treatment is almost never of any avail, as the cord is not merely pressed upon, but is severely crushed, or even completely torn across. Even when the cord is only partially injured operative treatment is not likely to yield better results than are obtained by reduction and extension. Great care must be taken to prevent cystitis and bed-sores (vol. i. p. 109). Total fracture-dislocation between Fig. 26.—Fracture-Dislocation of Ninth Dorsal Vertebra, showing downward and for- ward displacement of upper segment, and compression of cord by upper edge of lower segment. (Anatomical^Museum^^University ^he aflas an(], ax{s js almost always instantaneously fatal. The odontoid process is either dislocated from under the transverse ligament or it is fractured. This is the osseous lesion that occurs in judicial hanging. Penetrating Wounds.—These result from stabs or gunshot accidents, and are practically equivalent to compound fractures of the spine; their severity depends on the extent of thePENETRATING WOUNDS. 103 damage done to the cord, and on whether or not the wound is infected. In many cases the condition is complicated by injuries of the pleural or peritoneal cavities and their contained viscera, or by injury of the trachea, oesophagus, or large vessels and nerves of the neck. When the membranes of the cord are opened the profuse and the prolonged escape of cerebro-spinal fluid may prove a serious complication. Treatment.—The wound of the soft parts is treated on the same lines as other wounds. When the spinous processes and laminae are driven in upon the cord they must be elevated at once by operation. In injuries involving the lumbo-sacral region it is sometimes advisable to perform laminectomy for .the pur- pose of suturing divided nerve cords. When there is evidence that the spinal cord is completely divided, operation is contra-indicated. Attempts have been made to unite the two ends of the divided cord by sutures, but there is as yet no authentic record of restoration of function following the operation.104 CHAPTER VII. DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND COED. Pott’s Disease : Pathology; Clinical features—Pott’s disease as it affects different regions of the spine—Disease of the sacro-iliac joint ; Syphilitic disease of spine ; Tumours of vertebrae ; Hysterical spine ; Acute osteomyelitis ; Rheumatic spondylitis ; Arthritis deformans ; Coccydynia ; Tumours of cord and mem- branes—Spinal meningitis ; Spinal myelitis—Congenital deformities : Spina bifida ; Congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. Congenital sacro- coccygeal sinuses and fistulae. TUBEECULOUS DISEASE OF THE SPINE— POTT’S DISEASE. Percival Pott, in 1779, first described a disease of the spinal column which is characterised by erosion and destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae. It is liable to produce an angular deformity of the spine, and to be associated with abscess forma- tion and with nervous symptoms referable to pressure on the cord. This disease is now known to be tuberculous. It may occur at any period of life, but in at least 50 per cent, of cases it attacks children below the age of ten. Morbid Anatomy.—The tuberculous process may affect any portion of the spine, and as a rule is limited to one region, although in some cases foci of disease occur simultaneously at several levels. The disease may begin either in the interior of the bodies of the vertebrae—tuberculous osteomyelitis; or in the deeper layer of the periosteum on the anterior surface of the bones—tuberculous periostitis. Osteomyelitis is the form most frequently met with in children. The disease commences as a tuberculous infiltration of the marrow, which results in softening of the bodies of the affected vertebrae, particularly in their anterior parts, and, as the disease progresses, caseation and suppuration ensue, and the105 POTT’S DISEASE. destructive process spreads to the adjacent intervertebral discs. In some cases—and particularly in the lumbar region—a distinct sequestrum is formed, either on the surface or in the interior of a vertebra. The pus usually works its way towards the front and sides of the bones, and burrows under the anterior common ligament. Less frequently it spreads towards the spinal canal and accumulates outside the dura, causing pressure on the cord. The compression of the diseased vertebrae by the weight of the body above the seat of the lesion, and by the traction of the muscles passing over it, produces a more or less acute angling of the spinal column. The anterior portions of the bodies being more ex- tensively destroyed, sink in, while the less damaged pos- terior portions and the intact articular processes prevent complete dislocation. In this way the integrity of the spinal canal is maintained, ancl the cord is protected from press- ure. The spinous processes of the affected vertebra project and form a prominence in the middle line of the back. When, as is usually the case, only one or two vertebra are implicated, this prominence takes the form of a sharp angular projection, while if several vertebra are involved, the deformity is of curve (Fig. 27). The periosteal form of vertebral tuberculosis is that most frequently met with in adults. The disease begins in the deeper layer of the periosteum on the anterior aspect of the vertebra, and extends along the surface of the bones, causing widespread superficial caries. It may attack the discs at their margins, and spread inwards between the discs and the contiguous vertebra. Owing to the comparatively wide area of the spine implicated, this form of the disease is not attended Fig. 27. — Tuberculous Osteomyelitis affecting several vertebrae at Dorso- lumbar Junction. the nature of a gentle backward106 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. with angular deformity, but rather with a wide backward curvature, which corresponds in extent to the number of vertebrae affected. The accumulation of tuberculous pus under the periosteum and anterior common ligament of the spine is the first stage in the formation of the large abscesses with which this form of spinal tuberculosis is so commonly associated. Effects on the Spinal Cord and Nerve-roots.—In some cases the cord and nerve-roots are pressed upon by an oedematous swelling of the mem- branes ; in others, the tuberculous pro- cess attacks the dura mater, and gives rise to the formation of granulation tissue on its outer aspect—tuberculous pachy- meningitis. Less frequently a collection of pus forms between the bone and the dura, and presses the cord back against the laminae. The cord is never sub- jected to pressure as a result of curving of the spine alone, but occasionally a sequestrum becomes displaced backward and exerts pressure on it, and it some- times happens that the cord is nipped by sudden displacement of diseased vertebrae—a condition which is compar- able to a fracture-dislocation of the spine. The severity of the symptoms is aggravated by the occurrence of inflam- mation of the cord—myelitis—which is not due to tuberculous disease of the cord, but to interference with its blood- supply from the associated meningitis. Repair.—When the progress of the disease is arrested, the natural cure of the condition is brought about by the bodies of the affected vertebrae becoming fused by osseous ankylosis (Fig. 28). process is progressing, the cicatricial Fig. 28.—Osseous Ankylosis of Bodies of Dorsal Verte- brae following Pott’s Dis- ease. There is marked kyphosis at the seat of the disease and compensatory lordosis above and below. (Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) While this reparative contraction renders the angular deformity more acute, and it may go on increasing until the bones are completely consolidated. An increase in the projection in the back, therefore, is not necessarily an unfavourable symptom. In rare cases the 'disease affects only the articular or thePOTT’S DISEASE. 107 spinous processes, producing superficial caries and a localised abscess. Clinical Features.—The clinical features of Pott’s disease vary so widely in different regions of the spine that it is necessary to consider each region separately. To avoid repeti- tion, however, certain general features of the disease may be first described. Pain.—In the earliest stages of the disease the patient complains of a feeling of tiredness, which prevents him walking far or remaining long in a standing position. Later there is a constant, dull, gnawing pain in the back, increased by any form of movement, particularly such as involves jarring or bending of the spine. If the patient is a child, it is noticed that he ceases to play with his companions, and inclines to sit or lie about, usually assuming some peculiar attitude which tends to take the weight off the affected segment of the spine (Figs. 29-31). If he is going about, the pain increases as the day goes on, but may pass off during the night. Tenderness may be elicited on pressing over the spinous or transverse processes of the diseased vertebrae, or on making pressure in the long axis of the spine. These tests, however, are not of great diagnostic value, and they cause the patient unnecessary suffering. Pain referred along the nerves emerging between diseased vertebrae is a common symptom. Rigidity.—The pain produced by movement of the diseased portion of the spine causes reflex contraction of the muscles passing over it, and the affected segment of the column is thus rendered rigid. If the palm of the hand is placed over the painful area while the patient attempts to make movements of stooping, nodding, or turning to the side, it is found that the vertebrae implicated move en bloc instead of gliding on one another. This rigidity of the diseased portion of the column and “ boarding ” of the muscles of the back is one of the earliest and most valuable diagnostic signs of Pott’s disease. Deformity.—The most common and characteristic deformity is an abnormal antero- posterior curvature, with its convexity backwards. The situation, extent, and acuteness of the bend vary with the region of the spine affected, the situation of the disease in the bone, and the number of vertebrae implicated. When the disease has destroyed the bodies of one or two verte- brae, a short, sharp, angular deformity results ; when it affects the surface of several bones, a long, wide curvature. Lateral deviation is occasionally met with in the early stages of the disease as a result of unequal muscular contraction,108 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND COED. and in the later stages from excessive destruction of one side of a vertebra, or from partial luxation between two diseased vertebrae. Abscess Formation.—All forms of tuberculous disease of the spine are liable to be complicated by abscess formation. Spinal abscesses occur with greater frequency and at an earlier stage in adults than in children, because in adults the disease usually begins on the surface of the vertebrae. Pyogenic infection of such abscesses after they have burst constitutes one of the chief risks to life in Pott’s disease. Cord and Nerve Symptoms.—When the spinal cord is pressed upon the motor fibres are first affected, as they lie superficially on the antero-lateral aspects of the cord. There is at first weakness or paresis of the muscles supplied from the part of the cord below the seat of pressure. The knee-jerks and plantar reflexes are exaggerated, and there is marked ankle clonus. Later, there is paralysis varying in extent and sometimes amounting to complete paraplegia, and this may come on gradually or quite suddenly. There is wasting of muscles, and later a tendency to contracture and the development of deform- ities, as a result of sclerosis or descending degeneration of the cord, and in this stage the reflexes are lost. The sensory fibres usually escape, although in some cases there is partial anaesthesia and perversion of sensation. In cases of myelitis, loss of sensibility to pain (analgesia) below the level of the lesion is one of the most characteristic symptoms. In severe cases, there is incontinence of urine and of faeces, as the patient loses control of the sphincters. Acute bed-sores are not uncommon. The symptoms referable to pressure on the nerve-roots are pain and hypereesthesia along the course of the nerves that are pressed upon at their points of emergence, and occasionally weakness and wasting of the muscles supplied by them. General Principles of Treatment.—In every case of Pott’s disease absolute rest in the recumbent posture must be main- tained until all the symptoms have disappeared ; and from the nature of the disease this line of treatment must usually be persisted in for from one to two years. While the more acute symptoms last, the spine may be immobilised by means of extension and counter-extension with weight and pulley. Later, a double Thomas’s splint or a Phelp’s box may be used, to admit of the patient being moved from one room to another or into the open air. Appliances, such as jury-masts, corsets, or plaster jackets, designed to be worn while the patient goes about, are109 POTT’S DISEASE. not to be relied upon for the fixation of the spine so long as the disease is active. They are only useful in giving support to the spine after the disease is cured. Even in cases attended with paraplegia, treatment by rest and extension may be followed by recovery, although the process is sometimes a very slow one. Operative inteference by laminectomy (Macewen, 1883) is indicated in a limited number of cases, when, for example, the disease is confined to the neural arches of the vertebrae; when the symptoms tend to get worse in spite of prolonged and efficient treatment; or when fresh symptoms develop and threaten life. The importance of preventing septic infection of any abscess that may form has already been referred to. Pott’s Disease as it affects Different Regions of the Spine. Upper Cervical Region, including Atlo-axoid Disease.— When the disease affects the first and second cervical vertebrae, the alto-axoid articulation becomes involved, and as a result of the destruction of its component bones and ligaments, the atlas tends to be dislocated forward. When this occurs suddenly, the odontoid process may impinge on the medulla and upper part of the cord and cause sudden death. When the displacement occurs gradually, the atlas and axis may be separated to a considerable extent without the cord being pressed upon, and recovery with ankylosis may ensue. When the third, fourth, and fifth vertebme are affected, the tendency to dislocation and compression of the cord is not so great, but a portion of bone may be displaced backwards and exert pressure on the cord. The patient complains of a fixed pain in the back of the neck and of radiating pains along the course of the sub-occipital and other cervical nerves.' The neck is held rigid, and to look to the side the patient turns his whole body round. As the disease advances the head may be bent to one side as in wry-neck, or the head may be retracted and the chin protruded. To take the weight of the head off the diseased vertebrae the patient often supports the chin on the hands (Fig. 29). An abscess may form between the vertebrae and the wall of the pharynx—retro-pharyngeal abscess—the pus accumulating between the diseased bones and the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. The abscess may project towards the pharynx as a soft fluctuating swelling, and may cause difficulty in110 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. swallowing and breathing, and snoring during sleep; if it bursts internally it may cause suffocation. The abscess may bulge towards one or both sides of the neck, and come to the surface behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle (Fig. 29). In some cases it comes to the surface in the sub-occipital region. If the cord is pressed upon by inflammatory products, there is muscular weakness, beginning in the arms and passing to the legs, and sometimes followed by complete paralysis. The bladder and rectum are usually implicated. Sudden death may result when dislocation of the atlo- axoid joint takes place. Cervical caries has to be diagnosed from rheumatic torticollis (p. 238); and from the effects of injuries, such as sprain or twists of the spine. When a retro-pharyn- geal abscess points behind the sterno-mastoid, it is apt to be mistaken for a cold abscess originating in tuber- culous cervical glands. Retro- pharyngeal abscess due to other causes is described with Fig. 29. —- Attitude of Patient suffering diseases of the pharynx from Tuberculous Diseaseof the Cervical (p. 163). Spine. The swelling on the left side Treatment.—Extension is of the neck is due to a retro-pharyngeal i • n . .^ r abscess. applied to the head, prefer- ably by means of an elastic band fixed to the top of the bed, and the head of the bed is raised on blocks so that the weight of the patient’s body may furnish the necessary counter-extension. Lateral movements of the head are prevented by means of sandbags. After the acute symptoms have subsided, the spine should be fixed by some rigid apparatus, such as a double Thomas’s splint, pro- longed so as to support the occiput. A retro-pharyngeal abscess should be opened from the side of the neck by an incision along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, as first recommended by Chiene. The abscess is evacuated, and the cavity filled with iodoform emulsion andPOTT’S DISEASE. Ill closed without drainage. An opening made through the mouth is attended with the risks of pus being inhaled into the air passages and of septic infection. When the patient is allowed to get up, a rigid collar which supports the head and controls the movement of the cervical and dorsal vertebrae must be worn until the cure is complete. Cervico-dorsal Region.—When the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae are affected, in addition to the fixed pain in the diseased bones, the patient complains of pain radiating along the distribution of the superficial cervical nerves and down the arms. There is often marked angular deformity. If an abscess forms, it may come to the surface in the lower part of the posterior triangle, or may spread into the posterior mediastinum or into the axilla. Sometimes the pus burrows behind the oesophagus and trachea, and it may find its way into the pleural cavity. The cord is less frequently involved than when the disease is in the lower dorsal region. When the fibres of the cervical sympathetic that supply the dilator pupil lie are irritated in the cord, the pupils are dilated; when they are paralysed, the pupils are contracted. Dorsal Region.—When the disease is confined to the dorsal region, stiffness of the back and boarding of the vertebral muscles are prominent features. On being asked to pick up an object from the floor, the patient reaches it by bending his knees and hips, — Thomas s whde he keeps his back rigid. He refuses to Tuberculous Disease make any .movement that involves jolting 0f Spine, of the spine, such, for example, as jumping from a chair to the ground. . Children often attempt to take the weight off the diseased vertebrae by placing the palms of the hands on the edge of a chair so that the weight is borne by the arms. Angular deformity is often well marked, and may im- plicate several vertebrae. In order to maintain the head erect, the spine above and below the seat of disease becomes unduly arched forward—compensatory lordosis. In advanced cases, the ribs become approximated, and the lower end of the sternum is projected forward. The antero-posterior diameter of112 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. the thorax is thus increased, while its vertical diameter is diminished. These changes, together with the telescoping of the vertebral bodies, lead to the deformity characteristic of the tuberculous hunchback (Fig. 28). The alterations in the shape of the chest may lead to functional disturbances of the heart and lungs. Dorsal Abscess.—When pus forms, it may pass directly back- wards along the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves, and come to the surface be- hind the transverse processes, or it may travel forward between the pleura and the ribs, and, passing along the course of the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostals, come to the surface opposite the middle of the rib. In the latter case the abscess is liable to be mistaken for one associated with tuberculous disease of the rib, particularly as the rib is usually found to be bare. In rare cases the pus opens into the pleura, con- stituting one form of empyema. When the disease is on the an- terior surface of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, the pus may spread down through the pillars of the diaphragm and reach the sheath of the psoas muscle. Treatment.—In the early stages extension should be applied both to the head and to the lower extrem- ities. When the more acute symp- toms subside, the patient is placed in a double Thomas’s splint (Fig. 30), or, if a child, in a Phelp’s box. Dorso-lumbar Region.—The symptoms are very similar to those of disease in the dorsal region. Children while standing often assume a characteristic attitude—the hips and knees are slightly flexed, and the hands grasp the thighs just above the knees (Fig. 31). In this way the weight is partly taken off the affected vertebras and borne by the arms. If the child be laid on its back and lifted by the heels, the spine remains rigid. By this test a projection due to tuberculous disease may be differentiated from one due to rickets, as in the latter case the projection disappears. Fig. 31. — Attitude in Pott’s Disease of Dorso - lumbar Region of Spine.113 POTT’S DISEASE. The patient often complains of pain in the abdomen—which in children may be mistaken for a simple “belly-ache”—and of pain shooting down the buttocks and into the legs. Psoas Abscess.—When an abscess forms it usually occupies the sheath of the psoas muscle, in which it spreads down towards the iliac fossa, and into the thigh, passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, posterior and external to the femoral vessels (Fig. 32). The communication between the pelvis and the thigh is often very narrow, so that the abscess cavity has some- what the shape of an hour-glass. The pus may reach the surface in the region of the saphenous opening, or may spread farther down the thigh under cover of the deep fascia. In some cases it is liable to be mistaken for a femoral hernia, as the swelling be- comes smaller when the patient lies down, and ap- pears to have an impulse on coughing. Lumbar Abscess.—Some- times the pus travels along the posterior branches of the lumbar vessels and nerves to the outer border of the erector spinse, and comes to the surface in the space be- tween the edges of the lat- issimus dorsi and external oblique muscles — the tri- Fig. 32.—Left Psoas Abscess, angle of Petit. In rare cases it passes through the sacro-sciatic foramen and forms a swelling in the buttock (sub-gluteal abscess) ; or it may pass through the obturator foramen and reach the surface in the adductor region of the thigh or in the perineum. Lumbo- sacral Region.—Pott’s disease in the lumbo-sacral region usually affects adults, and, on account of the breadth of the vertebral bodies and the limited range of movement in this segment of the spine, is seldom accompanied by marked symptoms or deformity. The diagnosis, therefore, is often very difficult. The disease may be associated with pain in the distribution of the sciatic nerve, which is liable to be mistaken for ordinary sciatica. Single or double iliac abscess frequently forms without VOL. II—8114 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. the patient showing any characteristic signs of spinal disease (Fig. 33). When the disease begins in childhood it may induce a permanent deformity of the pelvis, the conjugate diameter at the brim being increased, while the transverse diameter at the outlet is diminished—kyphotic pelvis. Tuberculous Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint. — This con- dition may occur as a primary affection, but is much more frequently secondary to disease in the ilium, sacrum, or lower lumbar vertebrae, and is most common in adolescents and young adults of the male sex. It is attended with pain in the lumbar region, and sometimes in the buttock and along the course of the sciatic nerve. The pain is aggravated by move- ments, especially such as in- volve sudden and violent con- traction of the lumbar and abdominal muscles, for ex- ample, coughing, sneezing, or straining during defecation. Tenderness is elicited on mak- ing pressure over the joint, on pressing together the iliac bones, or on ^attempting to abduct the limb while the pelvis is fixed. The muscles of the buttock and thigh are atrophied. As any attempt to bear weight on the affected limb causes pain, the patient walks with a limp, and to save the joint he assumes an he throws his weight on the a stick for support, tilts the affected side of the pelvis downwards, and flexes the hip and knee-joints of the diseased limb. The anterior superior spine is unduly prominent on the affected side, and the limb appears to be lengthened. Sooner or later, in most cases, an abscess forms, and the pus may reach the surface over the posterior aspect of the joint. When the pus forms in front of the joint, it may spread outwards in the iliac fossa as an iliac abscess, or may gravitate downwards in the hollow of the sacrum and emerge on the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen—sub- gluteal abscess. Sometimes it passes into the ischio-rectal fossa Fig. 33.—Right Iliac Abscess from disease of the lumbar spiue. attitude which is characteristic : sound limb, leans forward using115 TUMOURS OF VERTEBRAE. or into the perineum. The presence of an abscess in the pelvis may sometimes be recognised on rectal examination. Occasionally the appearance of an abscess is the first thing to draw attention to the condition. As pain across the small of the back and along the course of the sciatic nerve may be among the early symptoms of sacro- iliac disease, the condition is liable to be mistaken for lumbago or for sciatica. From hip disease it is recognisable by noting that the movements of the hip joint are not restricted. It is not always possible to differentiate sacro-iliac disease from disease of the lumbar spine, and the two conditions often co-exist. The prognosis is unfavourable, particularly in cases com- plicated by extensive disease of the ilium with abscess formation and septic infection. Treatment.—In early cases, the patient should use crutches and wear a patten on the foot of the sound side ; in more advanced cases he must be confined to bed, and absolute rest to the joint be secured by means of extension applied to both legs, or by other apparatus. In children a Phelp’s box is a convenient appliance. Counter-irritation by blisters or the actual cautery may be had recourse to in dry cases in which pain is a prominent feature. If operative treatment becomes necessary, access to the seat of disease is obtained by removing the posterior portion of the iliac bone. A cold abscess is treated on the usual lines (vol. i. p. 150). Syphilitic Disease of the Spine.—All the clinical features of Pott’s disease may be simulated by gummatous disease of the vertebrae. This is usually met with in adults who have suffered from acquired syphilis ; it is most common in the upper cervical vertebrae, and begins on the anterior surface of the bodies. The onset is more sudden than that of tuberculous caries, and the progress more rapid. The bone is early and extensively destroyed, but abscess formation is rare. Severe nocturnal pains are complained of, and some degree of angular deformity may develop. In almost all cases other evidence of tertiary syphilis is present, and this, together with the history and the effects of antisyphilitic treatment, aids in diagnosis. The local treatment is carried out on the same lines as for tuberculous disease. Tumours of the Vertebrae.—Sarcoma is the most important of the primary tumours met with in the spinal column. It gives rise to symptoms which are liable to be mistaken for those of Pott’s disease. The pain, however, is more intense, and the disease progresses more continuously, and is entirely uninfluenced116 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. by treatment. The tumour may encroach upon the spinal canal and cause pressure on the cord (p. 119). In the sacrum—the most common site—the tumour implicates the sacral nerves, and causes symptoms of intractable sciatica; and the real nature of the disease is often only detected on making a rectal examination. Secondary cancer is not uncommon, particularly in cases of advanced scirrhus of the breast. It leads to extensive softening of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that they yield under the weight of the body, as in Pott’s disease. Clinically it is associated with pain in the region of the vertebrae affected, and along the course of the nerves emerging in the neighbourhood. If paralysis occurs from the tumour pressing upon the cord (paraplegia dolorosa) it is of very rapid development, often becoming complete in a few hours. When the cervical region is involved all four limbs are paralysed, and from interference with respiration the condition is rapidly fatal. Actinomycosis and hydatid cysts also occur in the spine, and are very difficult to diagnose from Pott’s disease. Hysterical Spine.—This term is applied to a functional affec- tion of the spine occasionally met with in neurotic females between the ages of seventeen and thirty, and liable to be mis- taken for Pott’s disease. The patient complains of pain in some part of the spine—usually the cervico-dorsal or dorso-lumbar region—and there is marked hypersesthesia on making even gentle pressure over the spinous processes. As the patients are usually thin, the pressure of the corset is apt to redden the skin over the more prominent vertebrae, and give rise to an appear- ance which at first sight may be mistaken for a projection. The general condition of the patient, the freedom of movement of the spinal column, and the entire absence of rigidity, are sufficient to exclude tuberculosis. The condition is treated on the same lines as other hysterical affections (vol. i. p. 674). Acute osteomyelitis of the vertebrae is a comparatively rare affection, usually met with in young subjects. It most frequently attacks the more mobile portions of the spine— cervical and lumbar—and may begin either in the bodies or in the arches. It is attended with severe localised pain in the region of the vertebrae attacked and a marked degree of fever. Pus usually forms rapidly, but being deeply placed, is not easily recognised unless it points towards the surface. The inflammation is liable to spread to the meninges of the cord and give rise to septic spinal meningitis, particularly when the disease begins in the arches. A milder form occurs, in which117 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. the main incidence is on the periosteum; the symptoms are less severe, it does not tend to suppurate, and is usually recovered from. The treatment consists in applying extension to the spine, and in opening any abscess that may be detected. The suppurative form usually proves fatal, and, indeed, is often only diagnosed on post-mortem examination. Rheumatic Spondylitis. — In rheumatic subjects the liga- ments, muscles, and intervertebral articulations of the vertebrae are liable to undergo changes similar to those met with in other joints. The affected part of the spine becomes stiff and painful, and changes occur in the bones and ligaments which result in permanent rigidity. In the cervical region the spine is twisted laterally, producing a deformity which simulates wry-neck. In the lumbar region the symptoms simulate those of lumbago. The treatment is the same as for other forms of articular rheumatism. Arthritis Deformans of Spine.—This disease usually begins between the ages of thirty-five and forty, and attacks men who follow some laborious occupation which involves exposure to cold and wet. There is sometimes a previous history of gonor- rhoea, rheumatism, or other toxic disease, and occasionally the condition is attributed to injury. The articular surfaces of the vertebrae undergo changes similar to those of arthritis deformans. The discs disappear, osteophytic outgrowths develop> at the margins of the bodies and in connection with the trans- verse processes, and bridge across the space between neighbouring vertebrae (Fig. 34). The articulations between the ribs and the vertebrae show similar changes, and the ligaments of the several joints tend to undergo ossification, so that the bones are fused together (Fig. 35). In the early stage the patient complains of pain and stiffness in the back; later the spine becomes rigid, and gradually develops a kyphotic curve, sometimes accompanied by lateral deviation (Figs. 34 and 35). The chest is flattened and restricted in its movements, with the result that the respiration is embarrassed and becomes almost entirely abdominal. The muscles of the back, shoulders, and hips undergo atrophy, and may exhibit tremors, and the deep reflexes become exaggerated. The nerves are liable to be pressed upon as they pass through the intervertebral foramina, and this gives rise to pain and other disturbances of sensation in their area of distribution. The disease simulates tuberculous caries, from which it may be diagnosed by the tuberculin test. Osteophytic outgrowths may be recognised by the use of the X-rays.118 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND COED. In the early stages the spine should be rested ; later, massage, movement, and hot-air baths should be employed, but in most cases the relief is but temporary. Coccydynia is the name applied to a condition in which the patient experiences severe pain in the region of the coccyx on sitting or walking, and during the movement of the bowels. Fig. 34. — Arthritis Deformans of Spine. The vertebrae are fixed to one another by outgrowths of bone which bridge across the inter- vertebral spaces, and there is a slight lateral deviation to the left in the mid-dorsal region. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.) Fig. 35.—Advanced Degree of Arthritis Deformans, in which the bodies are fused together by new bone, and the dorso-lumbar por- tion of the spine is deflected to the left. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.) The pathology is uncertain. In some cases there is a definite history of injury, such as a kick or blow, causing fracture of the coccyx, or dislocation of the sacro-coccygeal joint. These lesions have also been produced during labour. In other cases the pain appears to be neuralgic in character, and is referable to the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves, or to the terminal branches of the sacral plexus distributed in this region. The affectionTUMOURS OF THE SPINAL CORD. 119 is almost entirely confined to females, and the patients are usually of a neurotic type. On rectal examination the coccyx is exceedingly tender, and it is sometimes found to be less movable than normal, and unduly arched forward. When medicinal treatment fails to give relief the coccyx may be excised. Tumours of the Spinal Cord and Membranes.—Tumours may develop in the substance of the cord (intra-medullary), in the membranes (meningeal), or in the tissues between the dura and the bone (extra-dural), or the cord may be pressed upon by a tumour originating in the vertebrae. Tumours growing in the substance of the cord are nearly as common as extra-medullary growths, and as they are usually sarcomata, gliomata, or tuberculomata, and infiltrate the cord, they are seldom capable of being removed by operation. The great majority of meningeal tumours are primary sarcomata, and in about 25 per cent, of cases they are multiple. Hydatid cysts and fibromata are also met with in this situa- tion, and they too may be multiple. Extra-dural growths are comparatively rare. The forms usually met with are sarcoma and lipoma. These extra-medullary tumours seldom infiltrate the cord; they simply compress it, and are therefore amenable to operative treatment if dealt with before secondary changes are produced in the cord. It is seldom possible to diagnose the nature of a tumour before operation, and it is often difficult to determine in which of the above situations it is growing. The symptoms vary according as the tumour presses on the nerve-roots, on one-half, or on both halves of the cord. Pressure on the nerve-roots gives rise to pain, which, according to the level of the tumour, passes round the trunk (girdle-pain), or shoots along the main nerve trunks of the upper or lower limbs. When the cord is pressed upon, intense neuralgic pain related to the segment first involved is one of the earliest symptoms, particularly in extra-medullary tumours. The pain is at first unilateral, but later becomes bilateral—a point of importance in diagnosis. The painful areas are at first hypersesthetic, but as the pressure increases this gives place to anaesthesia reaching to the level of the lesion. In intra-medullary tumours the pain is less severe and is seldom an initial symptom. The next symptom to appear is motor paresis, followed by complete paralysis, and later by contracture of the paralysed muscles—spastic paraplegia. In intra-medullary tumours the paraplegia is usually less complete than in those that are extra-120 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. medullary. When only one lateral half of the cord is pressed upon, the motor paralysis is on the same side as the tumour, and the loss of sensation on the opposite side. Retention of urine accompanies the onset of paralysis, and later gives place to incontinence. The rectum becomes paralysed, and cystitis and pressure sores develop. Many of these nervous symptoms are due to superadded myelitis. Antisyphilitic treatment should be employed in the first instance to exclude the possibility of the lesion being of the nature of a gumma. Operative treatment is contra-indicated in intra-medullary and in metastatic growths. In meningeal and extra-dural tumours, however, in view of the hopeless prognosis if the condition is allowed to take its course, an attempt may be made to remove the tumour by operation. It is to be borne in mind that the lesion is always two or three segments higher than the pain would appear to indicate; the spine, therefore, should be opened about four inches above the level of the anaesthesia. When the tumour is not removable the patient’s suffering may sometimes be alleviated by dividing the posterior roots of the nerves emerging in the vicinity of the lesion. Spinal Meningitis.—The spinal membranes may become mplicated by direct spread in cases of acute general lepto- meningitis of the brain ; or they may be infected from without, for example, in gunshot injuries or in cases of spina bifida. When the infection spreads from the cranial cavity the cerebral symptoms dominate the clinical picture, but evidence of involvement of the membranes of the cord may be present in the form of rigidity of the cervical muscles with retraction of the neck; deep-seated pain in the back, shooting round the body (girdle-pain) and down the limbs; painful cramp-like spasms in the muscles of the back and limbs, with increased reflex excit- ability, sometimes so marked as to simulate the spasms of te tanus. When the theca of the cord is directly infected the spinal symptoms predominate at first, but as the condition progresses, it involves the cerebral membranes, and symptoms of acute general lepto-meningitis ensue. Once the condition has started little can be done to arrest its progress, and it usually proves fatal. Spinal Myelitis.—The term myelitis is applied to certain changes which occur in the spinal cord as a result, for example, of haemorrhage into its substance (hcemorrhagic myelitis); or of pressure exerted on it by fragments of bone, blood-clot, tuberculous material, or new growths (compression myelitis).SPINA BIFIDA. 121 Under these conditions the term does not connote any inflammatory element. Under other circumstances, in cases of acute lepto-meningitis, for example, and in syphilis, the changes in the cord are associated with inflammation. The symptoms and treatment of myelitis vary with the cause and extent of the lesion, and with its level in the cord, and have already been described. Congenital Deformities of the Spine. Spina Bifida.—Spina bifida is a congenital defect in certain of the vertebral arches, which permits of a protrusion of the contents of the spinal canal. It is due to an arrest of development, whereby the closure of the primary medullary groove and the in- growth of the mesoblast to form the spines and laminae fail to take place. The cleft may implicate only the spinous processes, but as a rule the laminae also are deficient. The defect usually extends over several vertebrae (Fig. 36). While the protrusions vary much in size, there is no constant ratio between the dimen- sions of the swelling and those of the cleft in the spine. The condition is comparatively common, being met with in about one out of every thousand births. It is most frequent in the lumbar and sacral regions, but occurs also in the cervical (Figs. 37, 38) and dorsal regions. It is not uncommon to find spina bifida associated with other congenital deformities such as hydrocephalus, club-foot, or extroversion of the bladder. Varieties.—Four varieties are usually de- scribed according to the character of the pro- trusion. They are analogous, to a certain (Anatomical Museum, extent, to the varieties of ceplialocele (p. burgh!)' J ° 66). (1) Spinal meningocele, in which only the membranes, filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, are protruded (Fig. 38). (2) Meningo-myelocele, the form most commonly met with clinically, in which the cord and some of the spinal nerves are protruded, and spread out over the inner aspect of the sac (Fig. 37). (3) Syringo-myelocele, in which there is a Fig. 36.—Spina Bi- fida. Note defici- ency of arches of several lumbar vertebr®.122 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. Fig. 37.—Meningo-myelocele of Cervical Spine. dilatation of the central canal in the protruded part of the cord. In these three forms the protrusion may be covered by healthy skin, or by a thin, smooth, translucent membrane through which the con- tents are visible. Frequently this thin covering sloughs or ulcerates, and permits the cerebro - spinal fluid to drain away. (4) In the myelocele, the skin, as well as the vertebral arches and membranes, is absent, and the cord lies exposed on the surface. This form is com- paratively common, but as the infants are either dead born or die within a few days of birth, it seldom comes under the notice of the surgeon. Clinical Features.—The pres- ence in the middle line of the back of a swelling, which has existed since birth, which contains fluid, and which increases in size and tenseness when the child cries or coughs, renders the diagnosis of spina bifida comparatively easy. The swelling is usually sessile, but may be pedunculated; it is usually possible to palpate the edges of the gap in the bones. The swelling may be reduced in size by making gentle pressure over it, and in young children this may cause a bulging of the fontanelles. This test, however, must be em- ployed with caution, as it is liable to induce convulsions. A menin- gocele, as it contains no nerve elements, may be translucent. In a meningo-myelocele the shadows of the cord and nerves stretched out in the sac may be recognised. The presence of the cord is some- times indicated by a median furrow over the surface of the swelling, and after withdrawal of some of the fluid the cord Fig. 38.—Meningocele in Cervical Region. (Mr. Shaw M'Laren’s case.)SPINA BIFIDA. 123 can sometimes be palpated. It is, however, often very difficult to distinguish between a meningocele and a meningo-myelocele. Sometimes there are no nervous disturbances, and this is especially the case when the defect is in the lower lumbar and sacral regions beyond the termination of the cord. In most cases, however, there are paralytic symptoms referable to the lower extremities, the bladder, and the rectum, and there may also be trophic disturbances in the parts below. Paralytic symptoms may be absent during infancy, and develop during childhood or adolescence. Prognosis. — Comparatively few children born with spina bifida survive longer than four or five years. The great majority die within a few weeks of birth, death being due to the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, or to septic infection setting up spinal meningitis. The condition in some cases remains stationary for years, but spontaneous disappearance is rare. Treatment.—The majority of cases of spina bifida only call for palliative treatment, which consists in applying a sterilised dressing and a supporting bandage. Operative treatment is seldom to be recommended in a young child unless the patient is moderately robust, and the swelling is increasing rapidly and threatening to burst, and there is reason to believe that the paralysis is due to pressure. The results obtained by operation after the age of five, however, justify an attempt being made. The operation consists in exposing the neck of the sac by an elliptical incision and isolating the sac. In the case of a meningocele a ligature is applied round the neck of the sac, the sac cut away, and the opening closed in such a way as to prevent escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. In the case of a meningo-myelocele the nerves are separated from the inner aspect of the sac and returned to the spinal canal before the sac is excised. To prevent the cerebro-spinal fluid escaping during the operation the pelvis should be well raised while the sac is being dealt with. The gap in the bone may be bridged across by flaps of periosteum or by pieces of bone taken from the adjacent laminae or ribs. The soft parts are sutured in successive layers, and the patient is kept in the prone position till the wound heals. The immediate results of this operation are usually satis- factory, but in a large proportion of cases the child subsequently develops hydrocephalus, from which he ultimately succumbs. The method of injecting the sac with iodine, as first recom- mended by Morton, of Glasgow, has been almost entirely given up.124 DISEASES OF THE SPINE- AND CORD. The term spina bifida occulta is applied to a condition in which there is no protrusion of the spinal contents, although the vertebral arches are deficient. The skin over the gap in the bone is often puckered and adherent, and is frequently covered with a growth of coarse hair. A mass of fat may project towards the surface, and when situated in the lumbo-sacral region may suggest a caudal appendage or tail (Fig. 39). The clinical importance of spina bifida occulta lies in the fact that it is sometimes associated with nerve symptoms, in the form of sensory, motor, and trophic dis- turbances referable to the lower limbs and the sphincters. These nerve symptoms usually result from the presence of a tough cord composed of connective tissue, fat, and muscle, stretching from the skin through the vertebral canal to the lower end of the spinal cord. As this strand of tissue does not grow in proportion with the body, in the course of years it drags the cord against the lower border of the membrana reuniens, which closes in the vertebral canal posteriorly. These symptoms may be relieved by the removal of this strand of tissue from the gap in the vertebral arches, or by incising the membrana reuniens. Congenital Sacro - coccygeal Tumours.—Many varieties of congenital tumours are met with in the region of the sacrum and coccyx. The majority are developed in relation to the communication which exists in the embryo between the neural canal and the alimentary tract—the post-anal gut or neurenteric canal. Sometimes a dermoid cyst containing a tuft of hair, and less frequently an adenoma, develops between the coccyx and the rectum, and may project either towards the surface or towards the bowel. Fig. 39.—Tail-like Appendage over Spina Bifida Occulta.125 SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMOURS. Among other tumours met with in this region may be mentioned: the congenital lipoma—a small, rounded, fatty tumour which often suggests a caudal appendage (Fig. 39); the sacral hygroma, which forms a sessile cystic tumour growing over the back of the sacrum, and is believed to be a men- ingocele which has become cut off in utero by the continued growth of the spinal arch; sarcomata, lymphangiomata, and teratomata. The treatment consists in removing the tumour, if it is causing trouble. From the position of the wound, and the fact that many of these tumours extend into the hollow of the sacrum and therefore necessitate an extensive dissection, there is considerable risk from septic infection, especially in young children. The risk is increased when the tumour communicates with the spinal canal. Congenital Sacro - coccygeal Sinuses and Fistulse. — De- pressions and fistulse are occasionally met with in the sacro- coccygeal region. The post-anal dimple, a shallow depression frequently observed over the tip of the coccyx, may be due to traction exerted on the skin at this spot by the remains of the neurenteric canal, or by the caudal ligament of Luschka. Sometimes the integument is retracted to such an extent that one or more sinuses, lined with skin furnished with hairs, sweat, and sebaceous glands, are formed. In some cases the depression communicates with the spinal canal, constituting a complete sacro-coccygeal fistula, which may be lined with cylindrical or ciliated epithelium. From the accumulation of secretions and subsequent infection, these conditions may be associated with a persistent offensive discharge. They are best dealt with by complete excision, and as primary union cannot be expected, the wound should be treated by the open method.126 CHAPTER VIII. DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. Scoliosis—Kyphosis—Lordosis. Three deviations of the spinal column are here described :— Scoliosis, or lateral deviation, in which the spine is arched to one side of the middle line; Kyphosis, in which it is unduly arched backwards; and Lordosis, in which it is unduly arched forwards. Scoliosis.—The term scoliosis is applied to a persistent lateral deviation of the spinal column with rotation of the individual vertebrae around a vertical axis. Various forms are met with, that which occurs during adolescence being the most common. Scoliosis of Adolescents.—Causes.—In some cases there is a distinct hereditary tendency to scoliosis, and several members of a family may be affected in succeeding generations. The deformity is most frequently met with in rapidly-growing, anaemic girls, who are overworked at school and lead a sedentary indoor life. It may begin any time between the ages of five and fifteen, and in many cases first attracts attention at the onset of menstruation. In some it is associated with respiratory obstruction from the presence of adenoids in the naso-pharynx. Interference with the free play of the chest by tight-fitting garments also plays a part in determining the deformity in girls about the time of puberty. In such debilitated subjects the muscular system is weak, and the muscles of the back fail to take their proper share in maintaining the spine erect. The normal ossification of the vertebrae is also interfered with, and the solidity of the vertebral column is therefore defective, with the result that the spine bends under the weight of the body. The patient is easily fatigued, and to rest the muscles and relieve the feeling of tired- ness in the back is apt to assume easy and ungainly attitudes.127 SCOLIOSIS OF ADOLESCENTS. Scoliosis, therefore, would appear to be due to the combined influence of weak muscles, imperfectly ossified bones, and the repeated or habitual assumption of faulty attitudes. It is probable that too much stress has hitherto been laid on such factors as the excessive use of one arm in the carrying of weights, the habit of resting on one leg more than the other, the occasional assumption of a faulty attitude in writing or in playing the piano or violin. These, doubtless, determine the seat and direction of the curvature, and, when it has once commenced, tend to aggravate and to perpetuate it; but they are not the essential cause of the deviation. It is probable that the greater frequency of the primary curvature towards the right is associated with the more general use of the right hand and arm, although primary curvatures towards the left are not confined to left-handed persons. Morbid Anatomy. — The original deviation or “primary curve” is usually in the dorsal region, and has its convexity directed towards the right side. To re-establish the equilibrium of the column, “ secondary ” or “ compensatory ” curves, having their convexities to the left, develop in the regions above and below the primary curve. It has been proved experimentally that lateral deviation of the spine is inevitably accompanied by rotation of the vertebrae around a vertical axis, in such a way that their bodies look towards the convexity of the curve, while their spines, laminae, and articular processes are directed towards the concavity (Fig. 41). As the deformity increases the individual vertebrae become distorted, the bodies becoming wedge-shaped from side to side, the base of the wedge looking towards the convexity of the curve, while the narrow end looks towards the concavity. As the spines, laminae, and articular processes also undergo altera- tions in shape, the tips of the spinous processes do not furnish an accurate index of the degree of lateral deviation of the spine. The muscles and ligaments are altered in length in accordance with the changes in the bones. In the dorsal region the ribs necessarily accompany the transverse processes, so that on the side of the convexity they form an undue prominence behind—the “ rib-hump ” (Fig. 40), while on the side of the concavity the chest is flattened and the ribs crowded together so that the intercostal spaces are dimin- ished or even obliterated. The converse—flattening on the side of the convexity and projection on the side of the concavity—is seen on the front of the chest. The general shape of the thorax is altered, the cavity on the128 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. side of the convexity being longer and narrower than normal and its capacity diminished, while that on the concavity is shorter and broader and its capacity is increased. The viscera are distorted and displaced in accordance with the altered shape of the thoracic and abdominal cavities. The twisting of the spine causes the patient to lose in stature, and the limbs appear to be disproportionately long. In advanced cases the pelvis becomes obliquely contracted—a deformity known as the scoliotic pelvis. In spite of the marked deformity the spinal cord is never compressed. Clinical Features.—The development of scoliosis is always slow and insidious. As a rule, attention is first attracted to the deformity about the age of puberty, but in most cases it has existed for a con- siderable time before it is observed. The patient—usually a girl, although it also occurs in boys—is easily fatigued, has diffi- culty in keeping herself erect, and often complains of pain in the back and shoulders and along the intercostal spaces on the side of the convexity. To relieve the muscles of the back she is inclined to lounge in easy and ungainly attitudes. The most common form of scoliosis met with in adolescents is a primary dorsal curvature with its convexity to the right (Fig. 40), and with more or less marked compensatory curves towards the left in the Fl®‘ 40: Adolescent lumpar an(l cervical regions. The dorsal 17 First noticed sPmes be towards the right ot the middle twelve months before line. On account of the prominence of the photograph was taken, ribs the right scapula is projected back- wards, and its inferior angle is on a higher level and farther from the middle line than that of the left scapula. The right shoulder seems higher than the left, and is popularly said to be “growing out”—a point which is often first observed by the dressmaker. The right side of the back is unduly prominent, while the left side is flattened. A deep sulcus forms in the left flank below the costal margin, and the space between the arm and the chest wall—the “ brachio-thoracic triangle”— on the left side is much more marked than on the right; and theSCOLIOSIS OF ADOLESCENTS. 129 left iliac crest is usually projected upwards and backwards. As seen from the front, the right side of the chest is flattened, while the left side is abnormally prominent, the breasts are asymmetrical, and the right nipple is on a higher level than the left. In aggravated cases the patient may suffer from shortness of breath on exertion, and the respiratory difficulty may react on the heart, causing dilatation of the right side, palpitation, and precordial pain. Sometimes, and particularly in males, the primary curvature is in the lumbar region, and the con- vexity is to the left (Fig. 41). The deviation of the lumbar vertebrae produces a prominence in the left flank which masks the outline of the iliac crest on that side, while the right flank shows a deep furrow and the right half of the pelvis is unduly prominent. There is a slight compensatory curve to the right in the dorsal region, and the right side of the chest pro- jects backwards. The brachio- thoracic triangle is much more marked on the right than on the left side. Diagnosis of Adolescent Scoliosis.—In many cases the patient is brought to the surgeon on account of pain and weakness in the back before any distinct deviation has developed, and, unless a careful examination is made, the real cause of the symptoms is liable to be overlooked. The patient should be stripped as far as the buttocks and examined in various attitudes; for example, standing in an easy position, standing as straight as she can, and sitting on a flat stool. In early cases, an inequality in the level of the angles of the scapulae is often the only physical sign to be detected. It should also be observed whether the line of the spines is VOL. II—9 Fig. 41.—Scoliosis of long standing in which the primary curvature involves the lumbar region and the convexity is to the left. There is marked rota- tion of the bodies of the vertebrae. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)130 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. altered when the patient hangs from a horizontal bar or trapeze. Any backward projection of the ribs on one side is rendered more obvious if the patient folds the arms across the chest and bends well forward, while the surgeon looks along the back from behind. Pott’s disease may be excluded by the absence of rigidity and pain on movement, or on jarring of the spine. Scoliosis is sometimes simulated by hysterical girls. Any mechanical cause of deviation of the spine, such, for example, as inequality in the length of the limbs or contraction of the chest after empyema, must be sought for. Treatment.— The child must not be allowed to assume awkward attitudes while reading, writing, or playing the piano; she must sit on a low chair, the seat of which slopes slightly downwards and backwards, and the back rest of which reaches as high as the shoulders, and is at an angle of 100°-110° with the seat. The feet should rest on a sloping stool, and when the child is- reading or writing a desk sloping at an angle of 45° should be used. In weakly girls approaching the period of puberty, special care should be taken to avoid compression of the trunk by tight corsets. Adenoids or other sources of respira- tory obstruction must be removed; and if the patient is myopic she should be provided with suitable glasses. Standing should be avoided, as there is a great tendency to throw the weight on to one leg ; but walking, running, and other exercises which bring both sides of the body into action equally are permitted under supervision. Horse-riding is a suitable form of exercise, but girls must ride astride. In mild cases—that is, cases in which the curvature is obliter- ated when the patient is suspended—the prophylactic measures above mentioned must be rigidly enforced, and gymnastic exercises should be prescribed. The exercises should not be commenced, however, until all pain and feeling of tiredness in the back have disappeared after a period of rest in bed. In cases in which the curvature is not affected by suspension the deformity is irremediable, but by suitable exercises it may be prevented from becoming worse, and the patient may be educated to disguise it to a considerable extent. Only in very aggravated cases should the patient be recommended to wear a supporting jacket. Such appliances have no curative effect, and can only be expected to relieve symptoms. Exercises for Lateral Curvature.-—The particular exercises given must be carefully selected to meet the indications present in each case, the movements prescribed being designed to strengthen the weakEXERCISES FOR SCOLIOSIS. 131 muscles and ligaments, to increase the mobility of the spine as a whole, and to correct the deviation that exists. The exercises should be taken twice daily, preferably in the morning and afternoon, and after each spell the patient should rest for an hour, lying on the back. During the exercises the breathing should be carefully regulated, and at the end of each movement one or two deep breaths should be taken. Each movement should be carried out slowly, the number of times it is repeated varying from four to twelve or more, according to the nature of the exercise and the strength of the patient. The exercises should be stopped if the patient begins to feel fatigued. Hot-air baths and massage are useful adjuvants to all forms of exercises. The following may be taken as typical examples of appropriate exercises :— A. General Exercises.—Patient lying on back, arms by side, palms upwards. 1. Slow inspiration by nose ; slow expiration by mouth. 2. Same breathing movements, with arms abducted to a right angle. 3. Rotation of head on axis vertebra to right and left alternately ; lateral flexion of neck to right and left alternately. 4. Simultaneous circum- duction of both shoulder-joints from before backwards, with elbows and wrists kept extended. 5. Hips alternately circumducted from within outwards, and from without inwards, with knees kept extended. B. Special Exercises for Dorsal Curvature with convexity to right.— 1. Staiid with arms by side ; palms directed forward ; shoulders braced back. This is referred to as the “best standing position” or original position. 2. Slowly raise arms from sides until level with shoulders, with palms directed forward; carry left arm straight upward—“the keynote position.” Then slowly lower left arm to level of shoulder ; lower both arms into original position. 3. Assume keynote position: slowly bend body forwards at hips until stooping position is reached, with legs kept quite straight, head bent slightly backwards, and eyes directed forward. Gradually return to keynote and original positions. 4. Keynote position: slowty bend whole spine to right ; resume keynote and original positions. 5. Keynote position: turn body forward sideways. 6. Keynote position: rise on to balls of toes. 7. Keynote position: rise on to balls of toes ; bend knees ; back to original position in reverse order. 8. Patient suspended from bar or rings, the left end of the bar or left ring being three inches higher than the right, (a) Draw right knee upwards and forwards against resistance, (b) Draw legs apart against resistance, (c) Draw legs together against resistance. 9. Patient lying on back, (a) Bend right knee- and hip-joints against resistance, (b) Extend right knee and hip against resistance, (c) Rotate right hip against resistance. 10. Patient lying on face with pilloiv under chest: slowly raise arms to keynote position. While limbs are firmly held by a nurse, raise the body backwards and to the right. 11. Same position : make swimming movements. 12. Patient astride a narrow table or chair, without a back, (a) Repeat exercises 3, 4, 5, and 11. (b) Bend body forwards, backwards ; and rotate to right and left against slight resistance made by nurse grasping patient’s shoulders. Klapp’s “four-footed ” exercises.—Rudolph Klapp, of Bonn, has devised a series of exercises designed to strengthen the muscles and ligaments of the spine, and to increase the mobility of the column. To take the weight of the body off the spine, and to render both ends of the column mobile, these exercises are carried out in the four-footed position, the patient crawling in imitation of a quadruped, that is, in such a way that the hand and knee of one side are approximated, while those of the132 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. other side are separated ; in other words, the hand and knee of one side should not move forward simultaneously (Fig. 42). With each step the spine is curved laterally, the concavity of the curve being towards the side on which the hand and knee are approximated. The exercises, for a case of dorsal curvature with the convexity to the right, for example, are graduated as follows: —(1) The child crawls in a straight line till he has acquired the “quad- ruped gait”; (2) with each step forward the head is inclined to- wards the side on which the hand and knee are approximated ; (3) at each step the hand and knee which are wide apart are brought over and cross the limbs on the other side ; (4) to open out the concave left side, he crawls in a circle to- wards the right. The exercises are practised morning and afternoon for from 15 to 60 minutes at a time. Hot-air baths and massage are useful adjuvants to the exercises. The hands, knees, and toes should be protected by suitable gloves and leather pads. Other forms of scoliosis are met with, but are less common. In rickety children, for example, the spine is fre- quently deviated. The curva- ture is usually in the dorso- lumbar region, and the convex- ity may be to the right or to the left. The deformity is often extreme and constitutes the humpback of the rickety dwarf (Fig. 233, vol. i.). It is possible that the position in which the child habitually lies or is carried has some influence in determining the situation and direction of the curve. A rickety child with weak muscles should never be carried sitting on the nurse’s arm, but always in the horizontal position in a fiat wicker basket. Massage and salt-water douches are useful in strengthening the muscles of the back. The usual treatment for rickets must, of course, be carried out. Among other con- ditions predisposing to scoliosis are late rickets, osteomalacia, and other diseases attended with softening of the bones and general debility. In children who have commenced to walk, any inequality in the length of the limbs — such as results, for example, fi-om Fia. 42.—Diagram of Klapp’s four - footed Scoliosis. attitudes in exercises for133 VARIOUS FORMS OF SCOLIOSIS. infantile paralysis, hip disease, congenital dislocation of the hip or genu-valgum—necessitates a tilting of the pelvis, and may determine the development of a lateral deviation of the spine (static scoliosis). In addition to the treatment already described, the length of the limbs must be equalised by wearing a boot with a thick sole, or an “ elevator ” inside the boot. Scoliosis may develop from purely mechanical causes; for example, in cases of empyema followed by collapse of the lung, in Pott’s disease, and in traumatic lesions of the spine. It may also occur in association with sciatica (vol. i. p. 352) and lumbago. It is frequently met with in those who have suffered from infantile paralysis, and in cases of long-standing hemiplegia. In 'paralytic scoliosis the curve is all to one side, the weak muscles of the back not being able to produce compensatory curves. There is a projection forward of that side of the chest which corresponds to the convexity of the curve, and as there is no rotation of the vertebra; there is no rib-hump. Fixation of the spine is a late development. Kyphosis.—Kyphosis, or backward curvature of the spine, may be due to a variety of causes. Those forms which result from Pott’s disease and injury have already been mentioned. In infants it is usually a manifestation of rickets or of general debility. The weak muscles, ligaments, and bones are unable to support the weight of the body, and when the child is carried in the sitting posture, or attempts to sit or stand, the spine arches backwards, usually in the dorso-lumbar region at first, and later throughout its whole length. In most cases the deformity disappears as the child grows older and gains strength, but in some it is followed by scoliosis. The child should be kept recumbent, and treated on the same lines as for rickety scoliosis. In adolescents also the development of kyphosis is generally due to an enfeebled condition of the muscles of the back. The curve is usually first observed in the cervico-dorsal region, the patient becoming “ round-shouldered.” This deformity is often determined in rapidly-growing girls by their assuming a stooping position for prolonged periods; for example, in sewing, writing, or piano-playing. In those who are myopic the necessity of bending over their work increases the tendency to kyphosis. The treatment consists in removing the causes of the condition, and in employing exercises, massage, and tonic treatment on the same lines as for scoliosis. In adidts who follow occupations that involve continuous stooping, such as tailors, cobblers, or porters, persistent bending134 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. of the back may result. Certain diseases, such as arthritis de- formans, ostitis deformans, and acromegaly, may also lead to kyphosis. Lordosis.—An exaggeration of the normal forward curvature of the lumbar spine sometimes occurs in street hawkers and others who habitually carry weights suspended in front of them. In very obese persons, in those who suffer from large abdominal or pelvic tumours, such as uterine fibroids, and in pregnant women, a more or less marked degree of lordosis is often produced. In another group of cases lordosis is compensatory to the flexion of the hip and tilting of the pelvis that accompany tuberculous disease of the hip-joint, congenital dislocation of the hip (vol. i. p. 719), Charcot’s disease of the hip (vol. i. p. 703), psoas abscess, or ankylosis of the joint in the flexed position.135 CHAPTER IX. THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. Face—Congenital malformations: Hare-lip and cleft palate; Macro- stoma; Microstoma; Facial cleft; Mandibular cleft—Injuries of soft parts: Wounds; Burns—Tumours: Epithelioma. Orbit — In- juries: Contusion; Wounds; Fractures — Injuries of eyeball— Orbital cellulitis—Tumours. Lips—Cracks; Chronic induration; Tuberculous ulcers ; Syphilitic lesions—Tumours: Neevi ; Lymphan- gioma ; Cysts ; Epithelioma. THE FACE. Congenital Malformations.—The description of the various congenital malformations of the face will be simplified by a brief consideration of the normal development of the parts. Development.—About the middle of the first month of intra-uterine life the prosencephalon bends acutely forward over the end of the noto- chord and sends out from its base a series of processes which ultimately blend to form the face (Fig. 43). These processes surround a stellate depression, the primitive buccal cavity or stomodseum, from which the mouth and nasal cavities are developed later. The buccal cavity is bounded above by the fronto - nasal process, which is divided by a fissure—-the nasal cleft—into a mesial nasal and globular process and a lateral nasal process. From the mesial nasal and globular processes the septum of the nose, the inner segment of the premaxillary bone, and the middle portion of the upper lip are developed ; while the lateral nasal process forms the roof of the nasal cavity, the ala nasi and adjacent portion of the cheek, and the outer segment of the premaxillary bone. Each segment of the premaxilla or os incisivum carries one of the incisor teeth, and each of the mesial segments may contain in addition an accessory tooth. The nasal cleft ultimately becomes the anterior nares. The primitive buccal cavity is bounded below by the mandibular arch, which contains Meckel’s cartilage, and from which are developed the lower jaw, the lower lip, and the floor of the mouth. From the outer and back part of the mandibular arch springs the maxillary process, which grows upwards and blends with the lateral nasal process across the naso-orbital cleft — the deeper portion ofTHE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 136 which persists as the nasal duct. From the maxillary process are developed the cheeks, certain of the facial bones, the lateral portions of the upper lip, the soft and hard palate (with the exception of the Prosencephalon. Mesial nasal process. Eye. Stomo lfenm. Fig. 43.—Head of human embryo about 29 days old, showing the division of the lower part of the mesial frontal process into the two globular processes, the intervention of'xthe nasal clefts between the mesial and lateral nasal processes, and the approximation of the maxillary and lateral nasal processes, which, however, are separated by the naso-orbital cleft. (After His.) intermaxillary bone). The development of the face is completed about the end of the second month of intra-uterine life. Hare-lip and Cleft Palate. Hare-lip is a congenital notch or fissure in the substance of the upper lip, and cleft palate a congenital defect in the roof of the mouth. Either of these conditions may exist alone, but they occur so frequently in combination that it is convenient to con- sider them together. In hare-lip the cleft may be median or lateral, and it may or may not be associated with a cleft in the palate. The re- semblance to the Y-shaped cleft in the upper lip of the hare, suggested by the name, is in most cases only superficial. Median hare-lip is extremely rare. It occurs in two forms ; one in which there is a simple cleft in the middle of the lip, the result of non-union of the two globular processes of the mesial nasal process; another in which there is a wide gap due to entire absence of the parts developed from the mesial nasal process— the central portion of the lip, the inner segment of the pre-HARE-LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. 137 maxillary bone, and the septum of the nose. The second form is usually associated with cleft palate. Lateral hare-lip is much more common. It is due to imperfect fusion of the mesial nasal process with the labial plates of the maxillary process. There may be a cleft only on one side of the lip, or the con- dition may be bilateral. In some cases the cleft merely extends into the soft parts of the lip—simple hare-lip (Fig. 44), forming a notch with rounded margins on which the red edge of the lip shows al- most to the apex. In other Fig. 44.—Simple Hare lip, cases the cleft passes into the alveolus of the jaw—alveolar hare-lip—partially or completely separating the inner and outer segments of the premaxillary bone. These cases are usually combined with cleft palate (Fig. 45). When the hare-lip is bilateral, the two clefts may be unequal, one forming a simple notch in the lip, the other passing into the nostril. In most cases, however, both clefts are complete,and the mesial portion of the lip is entirely separated from the lateral portions. The central portion or prolabium is usually Fig. 45.—Uuilateral Hare-lip with Cleft Alveolus, smaller than normal, and is closely adherent to the premaxillary bone. This bone may retain its normal position in line with the alveolar processes of the upper jawTHE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 138 (Fig. 46), or it may be tilted forward so that the incisor teeth, when present, project be- yond the level of the pro- labium (Fig. 47). In aggra- vated cases, the os incisivum and prolabium are adherent to the end of the nose. In these cases there is a Y shaped cleft in the palate. Cleft Palate. — It has already been mentioned that the palate is formed by the blending of the two palatal plates of the maxillary pro- cesses with the four segments of the premaxillary bone, derived from the nasal pro- cesses. The anterior pala- tine foramen marks the point Fig. 46.—Double Hare-lip in a girl ait. 17. which these elements of the palate unite. The pro- cess of fusion begins in front and spreads backwards, the two halves of the uvula being the last part to unite. As development may be arrested at any point, several varieties of cleft palate are met with. The uvula, for example, maybe bifid, or the cleft may extend throughout the soft palate. In more severe cases, it extends into the hard palate as far forward as the anterior palatine fora- men. In these varieties the whole cleft is mesial. In still more aggravated cases, the cleft passes farther forward, deviat- Fig. 47.—Double Hare-lip with Projection of Premaxillary Bone, in an infant before first dentition.139 HARE LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. ing to one or to both sides in the fissures between the inner and outer segments of the premaxillary bone, or between the outer segments and the superior maxillm. These cases are combined with double hare-lip. The cleft varies considerably in width. It may be so wide that the imperfectly developed nasal septum is seen between its edges, and gives to the cleft the appearance of being double, or the septum is adherent to one edge of the palate—usually the right—and the cleft appears to be to the left of the middle line. In most cases the roof of the mouth is unduly arched, and is narrower than normal. Clinical Features.—Single hare-lip is about twice as common on the left as on the right side, and it occurs more frequently in boys than in girls. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a well-marked hereditary tendency to these deformities, and they frequently occur in several members of a family. The nose is characteristically broad and flattened, the ala being bound down to the alveolar margin of the jaw by fibrous tissue. The margins of the cleft in the lip are also attached to the alveolus by firm reflections of the mucous membrane. The orbicularis oris and other muscles of expression about the mouth being defective, the deformity is exaggerated when the child cries or laughs. In simple hare-lip the child may have difficulty in sucking, but this can usually be overcome by some mechanical contrivance to occlude the cleft. When the liare-lip is double and combined with cleft palate, the child is unable to suck, and food introduced into the mouth tends to regurgitate through the nose. The nutrition can only be maintained by having recourse to spoon-feeding, and in feeding the child it is necessary to throw the head well back and to introduce the food directly into the back of the pharynx. Many of these infants are of such low vitality, however, that in spite of the most careful feeding they emaciate and die. In those who survive, the voice has a peculiar nasal twang, as in phonation the air is expelled through the nose instead of through the mouth, and the articulation, especially of certain consonants, is very indistinct. Taste and smell are deficient. The constant exposure of the nasal and pharyngeal mucous membrane renders it liable to attacks of catarrhal inflammation and granular pharyngitis. Treatment.—The only means of treating these deformities is by operation, and, speaking generally, it may be said that the earlier the operation is performed the better, provided the general condition of the child is equal to the strain. In simple140 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. hare-lip the best time is between the sixth and the twelfth weeks. When cleft palate co-exists with hare-lip, the lip should be operated on first, as the closure of the lip often exerts a beneficial influence on the cleft in the palate, causing it to become narrower. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to when the cleft in the palate should be dealt with. Some surgeons, notably Arbuthnot Lane, recommend that it should be done in early infancy, as soon as the viability of the child is assured. Others, including R. W. Murray and James Berry, prefer to wait until the child is between two and a half and three years old. It should not be delayed longer, because, even if the cleft in the palate is repaired, the nasal character of the voice persists, as the patient cannot overcome the habit of expelling the air through the nose. Before the operation is undertaken, the child must be got into the best possible condition of health; and arrangements must be made for its constant supervision by a competent nurse. Success depends largely on the avoidance of septic complications, and on absence of tension between the rawed surfaces that are brought into apposition. Frequently more than one operation is required to effect complete closure of the cleft. Operation for Hare-lip.—In operating for hare-lip steps must be taken to free the ala of the nose and the margins of the cleft from their attachment to the maxilla, and to support the ala in such a way that the flattening is corrected. Provision must also be made for the formation of a papilla on the free margin of the lip. When there is merely a slight notch in the lip, Nelaton’s operation is appropriate. It consists in carrying a A-shaped incision through the substance of the lip around the notch, but without dividing the free edge of the lip. The apex of the notch is drawn down and the wound becomes lozenge-shaped. It is then sutured in its vertical axis. In cases of complete hare-lip Rose’s operation may be em- ployed. The edges of the cleft are pared in a crescentic manner, so that, when the raw surfaces are brought into apposition, a projecting papilla is formed on the free margin of the lip. When the gap is wide, and it is undesirable to sacrifice tissue by parmg the edges, the method of splitting the lip along the junction of skin and mucous membrane, suggested by John Duncan, may be employed. To form a papilla two small flaps are cut from the lower margins of the cleft and turned down. The skin edges are united by one row of sutures, and the edges of the mucous membrane by another. In cases of double hare-lip in which the premaxilla retains its normal position, it is only necessary to pare its margins so thatHARE-LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. 141 they fit accurately between the outer edges of the clefts. The outer margins of the clefts are pared by a crescentic incision, and the margins of the prolabium in a rectangular or Y-shaped fashion according to circumstances. When the premaxillary bone projects forward, it should be replaced in position. Its replacement may be facilitated by excising a A-shaped segment from the bony septum of the nose. The prolabium is pared and utilised in closing the cleft in the lip, or in forming a columna for the nose. It should not be brought down to the free margin of the lip, as this usually results in depressing the tip of the nose. In suturing the lip silver wire or silkworm gut should be employed for the deep stitches, and horse-hair for the superficial ones. A light dressing of sterilised gauze is applied, and fixed in position by flexile collodion. The deep stitches are removed on the fourth or fifth day, and the superficial ones on the eighth or tenth day. A dumb-bell shaped piece of adhesive plaster may be worn for some weeks after the removal of the stitches to prevent stretching of the cicatrix. Operation for Cleft Palate.—The term uranoplasty is applied to the operation for complete cleft palate, while the closure of a cleft in the soft palate alone is known as staphylorraphy. The operation of Langenbeck is that usually employed. The patient is placed on the table with the chest raised, and the head slightly dependent, in order that blood and mucus may gravitate readily towards the back of the pharynx. To enable the soft parts covering the hard palate to be brought together in the middle line, it is necessary to separate them from the bone in the form of a muco-periosteal flap. This is done by carrying an incision down to the bone from the level of the last molar tooth to the level of the lateral incisor tooth, about a quarter of an inch internal to the alveolar edge. This incision passes internal to the posterior palatine artery and stops short of the anterior palatine. In this way bleeding is avoided, and the vascular supply of the flap is preserved. The flap is then separated from the bone by means of an elevator sufficiently freely to allow of the edges of the cleft being approximated without tension. It is often necessary to carry the lateral incision backwards into the anterior pillar of the fauces, to divide the palatal aponeurosis and the levator palati in the region of the hamular process. In paring the edges, the uvula is held with catch forceps, the edge made taut, and a narrow shaving removed by means of a bistoury; by bevelling the edges at the expense of the buccal surface, more accurate apposition is obtained, andTHE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 142 the tendency to inversion of the margins when the sutures are tightened is obviated. The connections with the septum of the nose are divided with a pair of curved scissors. After paring both edges in this way, interrupted sutures of silver wire, silk, or horse-hair are introduced. In the after-treatment steps should be taken to prevent vomiting, crying, or coughing. The child must be fed on fluids, carefully administered with a spoon. The mouth must be kept sweet by frequent sponging with a mild antiseptic, such as boro-glyceride, or by spraying with peroxide of hydrogen. The sutures may generally be removed in about a fortnight. The raw surface left on each side along the inner margin of the alveolus speedily granulates, the vitality of the palate bone being maintained from its nasal aspect. An alternative and in many respects a more efficient method of closing the palatal cleft is that introduced by Davies-Colley and modified by Arbuthnot Lane. It consists in raising the soft parts from the palate and adjacent alveolus in the form of flaps, which are folded across the cleft in such a way that their raw surfaces are opposedVto one another. Brophy, of Chicago, recommends that the palate should be closed in early infancy, by paring the edges, and then forcibly thrusting the superior maxilla; towards the middle line by digital pressure if possible, or by raising the cheek from off the bone and passing stout silver wire sutures round the palatal processes, and through the maxillae across the cleft. This operation is attended with con- siderable shock and has been known to prove fatal. Voice Training.—The treatment of cleft palate does not cease with a successful operation; the importance of voice training must be explained to the parents. The child must be taught, in speaking, to send the stream of air through the mouth, instead of through the nose, by using the soft palate. If the soft palate is not sufficiently large and mobile to shut off the mouth from the nasal cavity, little improvement in speaking can be looked for. Mechanical appliances, such as obturators or artificial vela, are only to be recommended in aggravated cases of cleft palate in patients over twenty years of age, or in cases in which operative treatment has failed. They should be in the form of plates of vulcanite or gold, fitted to the teeth, and kept in position by suction. Other Congenital Deformities of the Face.—Macrostoma is an abnormal enlargement of the mouth in its transverse diameter, due to imperfect fusion of the maxillary and mandi- bular processes.143 DEFORMITIES OF THE FACE. Microstoma is due to excessive fusion of the maxillary and .mandibular processes. In some cases the mouth is so small as only to admit a probe. Facial cleft is due to non-closure of the fissure between the nasal and maxillary processes. It passes upwards through the lip and cheek to the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Mandibular cleft occurs in the middle line of the lower lip, and may extend to or even beyond the chin; it is due to non- union of the two lateral halves of the mandibular arch. These various deformities are treated by plastic operations carried out on the same principles as for hare-lip. Fistulce of the Lower Lip.—Two small openings, about the size of a pin’s head, are occasionally met with on the free border of the lower lip, near the middle line. On passing a probe, each is found to lead into a narrow cul-de-sac, which runs for about an inch outwards and backwards under the mucous membrane. Watery, saliva-like fluid exudes through the openings. These fistulae frequently occur in several members of the same family, and are usually associated with hare-lip. The treatment consists in dissecting them out. Injuries of the Soft Parts of the Face.—Wounds on the face present the same general characters as wounds elsewhere. In incised wounds the bleeding is usually very free at first, but unless one of the larger arteries, such as the facial or temporal, is injured, it soon ceases. Paralysis of the muscles of expression may follow injuries of the facial nerve ; and loss of sensation may result from injury of the supra-orbital and infra- orbital nerves. If Stenson’s duct is involved, a salivary fistula may form. Punctured wounds may perforate the orbit or the cranial cavity and be followed by septic complications ; or the maxillary sinus may be injured and emphysema result from escape of air into the cellular tissue. Contused and lacerated wounds result from explosions and injuries by firearms, and foreign bodies, such as particles of stone or coal, or grains of gunpowder and small shot, may lodge in the tissues. Every effort should be made to remove such foreign bodies, as they cause unsightly pigmentation of the skin if left embedded. Owing to the extreme vascularity of the tissues sloughing seldom occurs. Ligatures are seldom necessary for the arrest of haemorrhage unless the larger branches are injured, as the bleeding from smaller twigs can be arrested by the sutures. The edges of the wound are approximated by means of Michel’s clips, or by a series of interrupted horse-hair144 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. stitches, and for this purpose a fine Hagedorn needle is to be preferred, as it leaves less mark than the ordinary bayonet- shaped needle. If the mucous membrane of the mouth or of the eyelid is implicated, its edges should be approximated by a separate row of stitches introduced from the inside. The complications of face wounds, such, for example, as erysipelas or tetanus, are attributable to infection with micro- organisms. Cicatricial contraction after severe burns may lead to marked deformities of the eyelids (ectropion), mouth, and nose. When the burn has implicated the neck, the chin may be drawn towards the chest, and the movements of the lower jaw and head seriously impeded (Fig. 48). Tumours.—The simple tumours met with on the face include sebaceous and dermoid cysts, nsevi, plexiform neuro- mata and adenomata; the malignant forms include the squamous epithelioma, and rodent, paraffin, and melanotic cancers. Epithelioma occurs most frequently in men beyond the age of forty. The affection Fig. 48.—Cicatricial Contraction follow- usually begins at the margin ing Burn in Childhood causing ex- f the q the edge of the treme deformity of mouth, neck, and 1 ’ . ° . . upper extremity. nostril, or the angle of the eye. There is usually a history of prolonged or repeated irritation, or the condition may develop in connection with a scar, a wart, a cutaneous horn, or an ulcerating sebaceous cyst. It may begin as a hard nodule, or as a papillary growth which soon breaks down on the surface leaving a deep ulcer with a characteristically indurated base — the crateriform ulcer. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are infected early, but metastases to other organs are not common. The treatment consists in excising the growth and the associated lymphatic glands as early and as freely as possible. When excision is impracticable, benefit may be derived from the use of the X-rays.145 THE ORBIT. The face is one of the commonest seats of rodent cancer (voh i. p. 371). THE ORBIT. ■ Injuries.—Contusion of the eyelids and circum-orbital region —the ordinary “ black eye ”—is associated with extravasation of blood into the loose cellular tissue of these parts, and is followed within a few hours of the injury by marked ecchymosis. The lids may swell to such an extent that the eye is completely closed. In some cases the impinging object lacerates some of the vessels of the conjunctiva and produces a sub conjunctival ecchymosis, which may be situated under the palpebral con- junctiva of the lower lid, or close to the corneal margin on the front of the globe. The characteristic play of colours which attends the disappearance of effused blood is observed within a week or ten days of the injury. This condition is to be distinguished from the effusions which sometimes follow such injuries as fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, fracture of the orbital ridges, or bruises of the frontal region of the scalp, chiefly by the facts that in black eye the discoloration comes on within a very short time of the injury, that the swelling appears simultaneously in both lids, and that the sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, when present, is coeval with the ecchymosis of the lids. In fractures of the orbital plate and bruises of the forehead, on the other hand, the ecchymosis does not appear in the eyelids for several days, and that under the conjunctiva is usually disposed on the globe as a triangular patch towards the outer canthus. Firm pressure applied by means of a pad of cotton wadding and an elastic bandage, if employed early, may limit the effusion of blood ; and massage is useful in hastening its absorption. Wounds of the orbit may result from the introduction of pointed objects, such as knitting pins, pencils, or fencing foils, or from chips of stone, or metal, or small shot. They are attended with considerable extravasation of blood, which may be diffused throughout the cellular tissue of the orbit, or may form a defined hrematoma. In either case the eyeball is protruded, and the cornea is exposed to irritation, and may become inflamed and ulcerated. The optic nerve may be lacerated, and complete and permanent loss of vision result. Sometimes the ocular muscles and nerves are damaged, and deviation of the eye or loss of motion in one or other direction is produced. The globe itself may be injured. Foreign bodies lodged in the orbit, so VOL. II—10146 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. long as they are aseptic, may give rise to little or no disturbance, and are liable to be overlooked. The Rontgen rays are often useful in determining the presence and position of a foreign body. All wounds of the orbit require to be carefully purified to prevent septic complications, which might endanger the eyeball or the adjacent cranial cavity. In extracting foreign bodies, great care is necessary to avoid injury of the eyeball or of its muscles or nerves. Fracture of the margin of the orbit usually results from a direct blow, and is followed by marked circum-orbital and sub-conjunc- tival ecchymosis, and sometimes is associated with paralysis of the optic nerve, or of the other ocular nerves. Implication of the frontal sinus may be followed by emphysema of the orbit and lids. The roof of the orbit is implicated in many fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull produced by indirect violence. It is also liable to be fractured by pointed instruments thrust through the orbit, in which case septic intra-cranial complications are prone to ensue, and these in a large proportion of cases prove fatal. When the inher wall is fractured and the nasal fossa opened into, epistaxis and emphysema of the orbit are constant symptoms. Sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, and more or less marked exophthalmos, are almost always present. Treatment is directed towards the complications. When the nasal fossae or the air sinuses are opened into, the patient should be warned against blowing his nose, as this act is liable to induce or increase emphysema of the orbit or lids. Injuries of the Eyeball.—These injuries may be divided into two groups—(1) those in which the glebe is contused without its outer coat being ruptured, and (2) those in which the outer coat is ruptured. In cases belonging to the first group, while the sclerotic coat and cornea remain intact, the iris may be partially torn from its ciliary origin, and the blood effused collects in the lower portion of the anterior chamber; or the pupillary margin of the iris may be ruptured at several points, causing apparent dilatation of the pupil. The crystalline lens may be partially or com- pletely dislocated, and in the latter case it may pass forward into the anterior chamber or backward into the vitreous. Among other injuries resulting from contusion of the eye may be mentioned haemorrhage into the vitreous, rupture of the choroid, and detachment of the retina. Injuries in which the outer coat of the eyeball is ruptured may be further subdivided into two groups according to whether or not a foreign body is lodged in the globe.THE ORBIT. 147 Rupture of the outer coat, especially when it results from a punctured wound, adds greatly to the risk of the injury by opening up a path through which septic material may enter the globe, and this risk is materially increased when a foreign body is retained in the cavity of the eyeball. When the globe is burst by a blow with a blunt object, the sclerotic usually gives way, and as the rupture takes place from within outwards, there is less risk of septic infection than in cases of punctured wounds. The lens may be extruded through the wound, and the iris pro- lapsed. If the rupture is large, the conjunctiva torn, and the globe collapsed from loss of vitreous, the eye should be removed without delay. If sight is not entirely lost and there is no marked collapse of the globe, an attempt should be made to save the eye. Wounds produced by stabs or punctures are very liable to be followed by septic complica- tions ending in panophthalmitis. When this is threat- ened, removal of the eye is indicated, not only because the af- fected eye is destroyed beyond hope of re- covery, but to avoid the risk of “ sym- pathetic ophthalmia ” affecting the other eye. Orbital Cellulitis.—The loose cellular tissue of the orbit is frequently the seat of an acute and diffuse inflammation, which usually passes on to suppuration. It is met with at any age, but is most common in adults. As a rule it is unilateral, but both orbits may be affected. The pyogenic bacteria that give rise to the condition may gain access to the orbit through punctured wounds or compound fractures, particularly when foreign bodies are lodged in the cavity, or they may spread directly from the conjunctiva or the eyeball when these are the seat of suppurative processes. Orbital cellulitis may also be secondary to erysipelas of the face, or to inflammatory condi- tions in the nasal fossae or their accessory air sinuses. Fig. 49.—Sarcoma of Orbit, causing exophthalmos and downward displacement of the eye, and projecting in temporal region.148 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. Clinical Features.—The disease is ushered in by general malaise, rigors, high temperature, and severe pain, which radiates all over the affected side of the head. There is marked ex- ophthalmos and fixation of the globe, with redness, swelling, and tenderness of the eyelids, and congestion and ecchymosis of the conjunctiva. The pupil is usually dilated, the cornea becomes opaque and may ulcerate, and there is photophobia and some- times diplopia. Resolution is rare. The pus that forms burrows in every direction, and may ultimately point through the eyelids or conjunctiva Sometimes the inflammation spreads to the meninges of the brain, or it may set up a septic phlebitis of the oph- thalmic vein, which spreads to the cavernous sinus. The eyeball may be infected and destructive panophthalmitis result. The prognosis is therefore always grave. The treatment consists in making one or more in- cisions into the cellular tissue for the purpose of removing the pus and establishing drainage. A narrow bistoury is passed in parallel to the wall of the orbit, care being taken to avoid injuring the globe. When j^ossible, the incision should be made through the reflection of the conjunctiva, but in some cases efficient drainage can only be established by incising through the lid. When the eye is destroyed by panophthalmitis, the propriety of eviscerating or enucleating it will have to be considered. Tumours of the Orbit.—Tumours may originate in the orbit or may invade it by spreading from adjacent cavities. Those which originate in the orbit may be solid or cystic. Of the solid tumours the glioma and the sarcoma are the most common, and when they originate in the pigmented structures of the globe they present the characters of melanotic growths. Primary carcinoma begins in the lachrymal gland. Osteoma—usually the ivory variety—may originate in the wall of the orbit, or may spread thence from the adjacent sinuses. Of the cystic tumours the dermoid is the most common. It Fig. 50.—Dermoid Cyst at outer angle of orbital margin.TUMOURS OF THE ORBIT. 149 usually occurs at the outer angle of the orbital margin (Fig. 50). A less common situation is the anterior part of the orbit, near the nasal wall, and this variety, from its position and from the fact that it is usually met with in children, is liable to be con- fused with orbital meningocele or encephalocele. Clinical Features. — In children the tumour is usually a glioma, and it is frequently bilateral. It usually occurs below the age of four, is associated with increased intra-ocular tension, protrusion of the eyeball, and dilatation of the pupil, and soon produces blindness. The tumour fungates and bleeds, and rapidly invades adjacent structures and spreads along the optic nerve to the brain. It is highly malignant, and recurrence usually takes place, even when the tumour is removed early. In adults melanotic sarcoma is most common. It occurs between the ages of forty and sixty, and is almost always unilateral; and while it shows little tendency to invade the brain, the adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected, and death usually results from dissemination. In all varieties of intra-orbital tumour exophthalmos is a prominent feature (Fig. 49). The degree and direction of the displacement depend on the position, size, and direction of growth of the tumour. It is seldom directly forward except when the tumour is growing in the optic nerve or its sheath. When the tumour is solid the eye cannot be pressed back into the orbit, but in cystic tumours it may to some extent. When the protrusion of the eyeball is marked the lids become swollen, cedematous, and dusky. The movements of the eyeball are restricted in a varying degree, and ptosis often results from paralysis of the levator palpebrae superioris. In almost all cases there is also more or less visual disturbance. The cornea being unduly exposed is liable to become inflamed, or even ulcerated. Pain is a variable symptom. When present it usually radiates along the branches of the first and second divisions of the trigeminal nerve. Tenderness on pressure is not always present. It is comparatively uncommon for a tumour of the orbit to invade the globe directly. Treatment.—In all cases removal of the tumour is the only method of treatment. In malignant tumours it is often necessary to sacrifice the eye to ensure complete removal. When the tumour has invaded the orbit secondarily, its removal may be impossible, but it may be necessary to excise the eye for the relief of pain. Orbital aneurysms have already been described, vol. i. p. 305.THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 150 THE LIPS. Painful cracks and fissures are frequently met with in the middle line of the lip and at the angle of the mouth in young subjects. They usually develop during frosty weather, and as they are constantly being torn open by the movements of the mouth, they are difficult to heal. The application of glycerine or lanoline may be employed. In many cases it is necessary to cocainise the fissure and scrape it with a sharp spoon. Chronic Induration of the Lips (Strumous Lip).—A chronic oedematous infiltration, probably of the nature of a lymphangitis, sometimes affects the sub-mucous tissue of the lips of delicate children. It is most common on the upper lip, and may be associated with a fissure or with chronic coryza. The lip is everted, and its mucous membrane unduly prominent. The cervical glands are frequently enlarged. The treatment consists in removing the cause and in im- proving the generalVondition of the patient. In cases of long standing it may be necessary to remove from the inner aspect of the lip a horizontal strip of tissue having the shape of a segment of an orange. The term “ double lip ” is applied to a condition occasionally met with in young men, in which there is an hypertrophy of the labial glands in the mucous membrane of the upper lip. It is of slow growth, and forms an elongated swelling on each side of the frenum, covering the teeth, and projecting the lip. It is shotty to the feel, and the only complaint is of disfigurement. The treatment consists in excising the redundant fold of mucous membrane, including the enlarged mucous glands. Tuberculous disease may occur in the form of ulcers or of lupus. The ulcers usually occur in patients suffering from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis. They are usually superficial, may be single or multiple, and are exceedingly painful. Dusting with orthoform powder is useful in relieving the pain. They may be treated by scraping with a sharp spoon, and sub- sequent painting with pure carbolic acid or 20 per cent, solution of lactic acid. Syphilitic Lesions.—The upper lip is the most frequent seat of extra-genital chancre. The chancre of the lip begins on the mucous surface as a small crack or blister, which gradually increases till it forms a rounded, indurated swelling, about a quarter of an inch in diameter. The surface is smooth, of a greyish colour, and exudes a small quantity of sero-purulent151 THE LIPS. fluid. The lip is swollen and everted, and there is a considerable area of induration around the chancre. The sub-mental and sub-maxillary glands on one or on both sides soon become en- larged. They may reach the size of a pigeon’s egg, are firm, and somewhat painful. In some cases the sore is much less characteristic, resembling an ordinary crack or fissure, and its true nature is only revealed when secondary manifestations appear. Mucous patches and superficial ulcers are frequently met with on the mucous surface of the lips and at the angles of the mouth during the secondary stage of syphilis. In the inherited form of the disease deep cracks and fissures form, and often leave characteristic scars which radiate from the angles of the mouth (Fig. 38, vol. i.). Gummatous lesions occur on the lips, and are liable to be mistaken for epitheliomata. Tumours.—Naevi are not un- common on the lips. When fined to the mucous sur- face they may be dissected , out, but when they invade 0 the skin they are best treated by electrolysis. Lymphangioma. —The term macrocheilia is ap- plied to a congenital hyper- trophy of the lips (Fig. 51), which is probably of the nature of a lymphangioma (Middeldorpff). One or both lips may be affected. The lip is protruded, the mucous membrane everted, and, when the lower lip is implicated, it becomes pendu- lous and is liable to ulcerate. The substance of the lip is uni- formly firm and rigid, so that it moves in one piece, and sucking, mastication, and phonation are interfered with. The operation consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the swelling on the same lines as for “ strumous lip,” or in employing electrolysis. Mucous cysts occur as small rounded tumours, growing from the inner surface of the lip. They are of a bluish colour, and contain a glairy fluid. They are treated by removal of the cyst wall together with the overlying portion of mucous membrane. Fig. 51.—Macrocheilia. (From a photograph lent by Mr. H. J. Stiles.)152 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. Epithelioma of the lip is nearly always of the squamous- celled variety, and is met with either as a fnngating wart-like projection, or as an indurated ulcer. It almost exclusively occurs on the lower lip of men over forty years of age. The growth begins about midway between the middle line and the angle of the mouth, either as a horny epidermal thickening, or as a warty excrescence, which bleeds readily and soon ulcerates. The affection is said to be especially common in those who smoke irritation of the lip by the friction of the pipe stem may play some part in determin- ing the excessive growth of epithelium, and it is a sug- gestive fact that, while epi- thelioma of the lip is rare in women, the majority of those who do suffer are smokers. The ulceration spreads along the lip, chiefly towards the angle of the mouth, and downwards towards the chin, and the substance of the lip becomes swollen and in- durated. The edges are char- acteristically raised and hard, and the raw surface is ex- tremely painful, especially when irritated by hot food or fluids. The growth is liable to spread to the mucous membrane and gum, and to invade the lower jaw. The disease spreads early to the sub- mental and submaxillary glands, which are best felt with one finger inside the mouth, under the tongue, and another outside, below the jaw. The infected glands tend to become fixed to the jaw, and to soften, liquefy, and fungate. Metastasis to internal organs is rare. Unless removed by operation the disease usually proves fatal in from three to three and a half years. The treatment consists in early and free removal of the affected portion of lip and of the infected glands. In comparatively small growths which do not involve the angle of the mouth, a V-shaped incision is carried through the entire thickness of the short clay pipes. The constant Fig. 52.—Advanced Epithelioma of Lower Lip.EPITHELIOMA OF LIP. 153 lip so as to include the tumour and an area of healthy tissue beyond it. In larger growths, particularly when situated at the angle of the mouth, it is necessary to carry an incision trans- versely into the cheek to enable the lip to be repaired without leaving deformity. When it is necessary to remove the greater part of the lower lip, the defect may be filled up by flaps of skin taken from below the jaw (Syme’s operation). When the tumour is adherent to the lower jaw it is necessary to resect a portion of that bone along with the lip. The frequency with which recur- rence takes place in the lymphatic glands below the jaw renders it advisable to remove these in all cases, whether they are palpably enlarged or not. J. Hutchinson, junr., recommends that the submaxillary and submental triangles on both sides should be cleared out as a routine procedure. In inoperable cases benefit may follow the use of the X-rays. It is not always advisable for the practitioner to carry out these extensive operations in the early stages of the disease, when, for example, there is only a small horny swelling on the surface of the lip. Under these conditions the swelling should be freely excised, under local anaesthesia, and the growth examined microscopically. If evidence of malignancy is present the glands should at once be excised. Epithelioma of the upper lip is less common. It occurs with equal frequency in the two sexes, progresses more slowly, and is, on the whole, less malignant. It sometimes appears to be due to contact infection from the lower lip. It is treated on the same lines as cancer of the lower lip.154 CHAPTER X. THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. Stomatitis—Roof of mouth : Abscess; Gumma ; Tuberculous disease ; Tumours—Elongation of uvula—Epithelioma of floor of mouth— Inflammation of fauces and tonsils—Hypertrophy of tonsils—Cal- culus— Syphilis and Tuberculosis— Tumours — Retro-pharyngeal abscess. Stomatitis.—The term stomatitis is applied to any inflammation of the buccal mucous membrane. The catarrhal form is often associated with the presence of carious teeth or a septic wound ; the mucous membrane is hypersemic and swollen, and exudes an excessive amount of viscid mucous secretion, and the epithelium desquamates in patches, leaving small superficial erosions or ulcers which are very sensitive. The aphthous form, met with in unhealthy, underfed children, is characterised by the occurrence of patches of fibrinous exudation into the superficial layers of the mucous membrane. The epithelium covering these patches is shed, leaving a series of whitish spots, surrounded by a red hyperaemic zone, which may become confluent and form small ulcers. The condition known as thrush closely resembles aphthous stomatitis. It is met with in infants during the period of teething, and is due to the o'idium albicans, a fungus met with in sour milk. The spots, which are most numerous on the lips, tongue, and throat, have the appearance of curdled milk. The treatment of these forms of stomatitis consists in improving the general condition of the patient, and in employing an anti- septic mouth-wash, such as peroxide of hydrogen, Condy’s fluid, chlorate of potash, or boro-glyceride. The superficial ulcers may be touched with silver nitrate or with a 1 per cent, solution of chromic acid. Ulcerative stomatitis is frequently met with in debilitated MOUTH.THE MOUTH. 155 subjects with decayed teeth, and is specially liable to occur during the course of acute febrile diseases in which sordes accumulate about the teeth and gums. It is also symptomatic of scurvy and secondary syphilis, and of poisoning by lead, phosphorus, or mercury. Some patients show a special susceptibility to mercury, and one of the first signs of intolerance of the drug is some degree of stomatitis, which may ensue after a com- paratively small quantity has been administered. It begins in the gums, which become tender, swollen and spongy, and bleed readily. A greenish discoloration appears on the teeth at the edge of the gum, and the teeth may become loose and fall out. In severe cases the alveolar margin of the jaw may undergo necrosis. There is also profuse salivation, and the breath has a characteristically offensive odour. The treatment consists in removing the cause, and in employ- ing antiseptic and astringent mouth-washes. The internal ad- ministration of chlorate of potash is also indicated, as this drug is excreted in the saliva. Gangrenous stomatitis, or cancrum oris, has already been described (vol. i. p. 108). Roof of the Mouth.—Suppuration in the muco-periosteum of the palate is usually secondary to suppuration at the root of a carious tooth. The inflammation usually begins close to the alveolus, just behind the incisor teeth, and may spread back along the palate. The muco-periosteum becomes swollen, red, and exceedingly tender, and, as pus forms, is raised from the bone, forming a prominent, firm, elongated swelling, which on bursting or being incised gives exit to foul-smelling pus. The inflammation then speedily subsides. It may also arise in excoriations caused by an ill-fitting tooth-plate, or from the impaction of a foreign body, such as a fish or game bone, in the mucous membrane. The syphilitic gumma, which begins as a rounded indolent swelling, is usually situated in the middle line near the posterior edge of the hard palate. The swelling gradually softens and ulcerates, and a sequestrum may separate and leave a perforation in the palate (Fig. 53). The treatment consists in employing the usual remedies for tertiary syphilis. If the perforation persists and causes trouble by allowing food to pass into the nose, or by giving a nasal tone to the voice, it may be closed by an operation on the same principle as that performed for cleft palate, or an obturator may be fitted to occlude the opening. Tuberculoids disease is chiefly met with in the form of lupus which has spread from the nose or lips, and it may lead to156 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. widespread destruction of the soft tissues, or even to perforation of the bony palate. Mucous cysts, dermoids, adenomata, lipomata, and fibromata are occasionally met with. Papillomatous thickening of the mucous membrane is sometimes met with in association with leucoplakia. It resists antisyphilitic treatment, but yields to scraping with the sharp spoon. Endotheliomata, or mixed Fig. 53.—Perforation of Palate, the result of Syphilis, and Gumma of Right Frontal Bone. (From Dr. Byrom Bramwell’s Allas of Clinical Medicine.) tumours, similar to those met with in the parotid gland, also occur. They are met with in young subjects, and grow in the sub-mucous tissue of the soft palate, usually to one side of the middle line. In their early stages they are of slow growth, and give rise to no inconvenience save from their size, are easily removed, and show no tendency to recur. Later, they grow more rapidly, tend to infiltrate their surroundings and to assume malignant characters, so that complete removal becomes difficult or impossible. Epithelioma may originate in the hard palate as a result ofHOSPITAL SORE THROAT. 157 local irritation, or may spread from adjacent parts. When it is confined to the palate it is treated by removal of the palatal and alveolar portions of the upper jaw ; when the disease is too wide spread for removal it may be treated by X-rays. Elongation of the uvula is usually due to a chronic inflam- matory engorgement combined with glandular hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. It often occurs in children, and is associated with a constant hacking cough, which is usually worst when the patient is lying down. By tickling the back of the tongue and pharynx it may induce vomiting after food. The treatment consists in snipping off the redundant portion with scissors. Epithelioma of the floor of the mouth frequently originates in the mucous membrane between the frenum of the tongue and the inner aspect of the gum. It develops insidiously, grows slowly, and gradually spreads to the lower jaw and to the substance of the tongue, tacking it down so that it cannot be pro- truded. The glands are early involved, and their enlargement not infrequently first draws attention to the condition in the mouth. For the complete removal of the disease it is usually necessary to excise a segment of the lower jaw, the tissues in the floor of the mouth, and a variable portion of the tongue, together with the lymphatic glands. THE FAUCES, TONSILS, AND PHARYNX. Inflammatory Affections.—An acute catarrhal inflammation of the back of the throat, characterised by congestion and hyper- semia of the mucous membrane, is very common. It may be symptomatic of some general acute febrile disease, such as scarlet fever, measles, influenza, septicaemia, or acute rheumatism. It occurs also in those who are much exposed to air contaminated with septic organisms—for example, patients who have been long in hospital, or the resident staff of hospitals (septic or hospital throat), and particularly in persons of a rheumatic tendency. There is slight pain on swallowing, and a peculiar tickling sensation passes along the Eustachian tube to the ear; the throat feels dry, and the patient has a constant desire to clear it, and there is usually a rise of temperature to 1 OL- IOS0 F. Among the complications that may ensue is inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, causing some difficulty in breathing; or the condition may spread along the Eustachian158 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. tube to the middle ear, and cause deafness, or it may set up chronic suppuration of the ear. The treatment of the throat condition consists in employing antiseptic and soothing gargles, inhalations of chloride of ammonium, or a spray of menthol or eucalyptol. Lozenges or pastilles containing chloride of ammonium, chlorate of potash, and cubebs may be employed. In rheumatic cases salicin, aspirin, and salicylate of soda are indicated. A chronic form of pharyngitis is frequently met with in clergymen and others who require to strain their voices in public speaking. In some cases the mucous membrane is congested, infiltrated, and swollen, the lymph follicles enlarged and prominent, and the surface covered with a viscid muco- purulent secretion (hypertrophic or granular pharyngitis); in others the mucous membrane is smooth and glazed, and dry scabs adhere to its surface (atrophic pharyngitis). In the follicular form the inflammation affects chiefly the lymphoid follicles, which abound in the pharynx and tonsils. The mucous membrane isNjed and swollen, and the tonsils are enlarged and project so that they obstruct the isthmus of the fauces, sometimes even meeting in the middle line. A viscid muco-purulent secretion adheres to the surface in patches, and in the openings of the crypts of the tonsils yellowish plugs, consisting of leucocytes and desquamated epithelium, may be visible. There is pain on swallowing, and the respiration is impeded and noisy, and there is usually some degree of fever. The glands behind the angle of the jaw are enlarged and tender. Treatment should first be directed towards improving the condition of the gastro-intestinal tract. Any abnormal condition in the nasal passages should also be corrected. The local treat- ment is carried out on the same lines as in the more acute form of pharyngitis. In the granular form the hypertrophied follicles may be destroyed by the galvano-cautery. When the tonsils share in the hypertrophy they should be removed. Acute Suppurative Tonsillitis—Quinsy.—This is an acute suppurative inflammation of the tonsils and peritonsillar tissues, due to infection with pyogenic bacteria. It most frequently occurs in persons of a rheumatic tendency, and those who are predisposed to the disease suffer from it frequently, the attacks sometimes coming on periodically. The inflammation affects the whole substance of the tonsils, the pillars of the fauces, the soft palate, and the pharynx. The onset is usually sudden, and the affection is ushered in by a rigor, high fever, and a feeling of malaise. There is persistent thirstQUINSY. 159 and dryness of the throat, and the patient has the sensation of a foreign body being in the pharynx, with a constant desire to swallow. Swallowing is extremely painful, the pain shooting up into the ears, and there are often cracking and noises in the ears. The voice is thick and nasal, and the respiration is impeded and noisy. If the patient can open the mouth sufficiently to afford a view of the back of the throat (which, however, is seldom the case), the inflamed parts are seen to be of a dull reddish violet colour. One tonsil is often more swollen than the other, and the corresponding anterior pillar of the fauces more prominent. The uvula is deviated towards the side on which there is least swelling. Suppuration occurs in from three to seven days ; in adults it is usually in the peritonsillar tissue of the anterior pillar of the fauces, and extends into the soft palate. In children the pus sometimes forms in the substance of the tonsil. If left to burst, the abscess discharges itself into the mouth, and the patient experiences instant relief. The pus is always offensive, and if the abscess bursts during sleep, it may enter the air passages and cause septic pneumonia. The lymphatic glands in the neck are usually enlarged, and some- times they suppurate, and a diffuse septic cellulitis is liable to occur. Treatment.—The bowels should be freely moved by calomel or other opening medicine. In the early stages soothing anti- septic gargles are indicated. Later the inhalation of steam impregnated with the vapour of carbolic acid or friar’s balsam, and the application of hot fomentations, or a large linseed poultice, to the neck, may afford relief. When an abscess forms, it should be opened by means of a fine pointed pair of sinus forceps, thrust through the soft palate at a point opposite the base of the uvula, and in the line of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Hypertrophy of the tonsils is most commonly met with in children between five and ten years of age, and it is very often associated with adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharynx and chronic thickening of the pharyngeal mucous membrane. The whole tonsil is enlarged, the mucous membrane thickened, and the connective tissue more or less sclerosed. The crypts appear on the surface as deep clefts or fissures, and the lymph follicles are enlarged and prominent. Secretion accumulates in the crypts, and calculi may form from the deposit of lime salts. Sometimes food particles lodge in the crypts, and they may collect and form accumulations of considerable size, requiring the use of a scoop to dislodge them. Clinical Features.—The hypertrophy is bilateral, but not160 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. always symmetrical. Sometimes the tonsils project to such an extent as almost to meet in the middle line ; sometimes they scarcely pass beyond the level of the pillars of the fauces. They are usually sessile, but sometimes the base is so narrow as almost to form a pedicle. During childhood they are usually soft and spongy, but when they persist into adolescence or adult life they become firm and indurated. The repeated attacks of catarrhal or suppurative tonsillitis to which the patients are subject cause this sclerotic change. The lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw are frequently enlarged. Swallowing is sometimes interfered with, and the patient is liable to attacks of nausea and vomiting. Respiration is always more or less impeded, and the patient breathes through the open mouth, and snores loudly during sleep. The hindrance to respiration interferes with the development of the chest. In some cases alarming suffocative attacks occasionally supervene during sleep, and disappear as soon as the child is wakened. The voice is characteristically thick and nasal, especially when adenoids are present. Hearing is often impaired from obstruc- tion of the Eustachian tube. In many cases the patient has a characteristically vacant and stupid expression. Treatment.—General tonic treatment is indicated in all cases. In early and mild cases the tonsils should be painted with glycerin of tannic acid, or some other astringent, and an antiseptic mouth-wash should be used several times a day. In more advanced cases, when the condition is interfering with the general health or with the development of the chest, or when there is deafness or disturbance of sleep, the tonsils should be removed. The parts are painted with a 5 per cent, solution of cocain, and the tonsil is seized with vulsella forceps and pulled out from between the pillars of the fauces, and is then shaved off with a curved probe-pointed bistoury, protected with adhesive plaster near the hilt to avoid injuring the lips or tongue. In tonsils that project prominently the guillotine may be preferred to the knife. Soft tonsils can sometimes be shelled out with the finger-nail. The haemorrhage usually ceases spontaneously; when it is excessive firm pressure should be applied over the bleeding point with a sponge moistened with adrenalin solution, and the patient should remain in a sitting position. In children as much of the tonsil as possible should be removed, but in adults it is usually sufficient to shave off the projecting portion. The subsequent cicatricial contraction reduces the organ to its normal size, and the operation is usually followed by a marked improvement in the general health.THE TONSILS. 161 Calculi composed of phosphate or carbonate of lime are sometimes formed in the crypts of enlarged tonsils. As a rule they are not bigger than a pea, but they may be much larger. They cause a sharp stabbing pain on swallowing, and sometimes a persistent hacking cough. They are easily shelled out through a small incision into the tonsil. Syphilis.—The fauces and tonsils are occasionally the seat of a hard chancre, and the condition may simulate malignant disease. The submaxillary glands, however, are early and rapidly enlarged. In the early stages of the secondary period, superficial ulcers and mucous patches are frequently met with. In the later stages, severe phagedamic ul- ceration sometimes oc- curs, especially in alcoholic subjects, and may rapidly eat through the soft palate, leading to marked deformity from contraction when cicatrisation takes place. In the tertiary stage, a diffuse gum- matous infiltration oc- curs, and is liable to Fig. 54. — Cicatricial Stenosis of communication be followed by ulcera- between pharynx and naso-pharynx, the result tion, which spreads to of syphilis. the pharyngeal wall (From a drawing lent by Dr. Logan Turner.) and soft palate, and, by causing cicatricial contraction and adhesions, may lead to narrowing or even complete occlusion of the communication between the pharynx and the naso-pharynx (Fig. 54). Tuberculous lesions of the fauces and tonsils are almost in- variably secondary to tubercle of the larynx or lungs, or to lupus of the face or naso-pharynx. They are attended with more pain than syphilitic lesions; are less prone to spread to the palate and cause perforation; but, when cicatrisation takes place, they are equally liable to produce contraction and deformity. VOL. II—11162 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. Tumours.—Innocent tumours—fibroma, lipoma, myoma—are comparatively rare. When sessile they cause inconvenience only by their bulk; when pedunculated they may hang down into the pharynx and interfere with swallowing and breathing. They may be shelled out, or ligatured at the base and cut off according to circumstances. Malignant Tumours.—The tonsil is frequently the primary seat of lymplio-sarcoma, a very malignant form of round-celled sarcoma. The tumour is at first confined to the tonsil, but rapidly infiltrates the surrounding structures, encroaching upon the cavity of the pharynx and causing interference with swallowing and breathing. The mucous membrane soon gives way, and widespread ulceration and sloughing of the tumour substance occurs, leading to septic complications, and sometimes to serious and even fatal haemorrhage. The patient emaciates very rapidly. The adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected. The squamous epithelioma usually implicates the fauces, soft palate, and pharyngeal wall as well as the tonsil, and the disease may begin in the. tonsil, in the groove between the tonsil and the tongue, or in the soft palate. The naso-pharynx is seldom involved. Males suffer more frequently than females. The disease may exist for a considerable time before giving rise to marked symptoms, and attention may first be drawn to it by pain and difficulty in swallowing, or by pain shooting towards the ear. In some cases enlargement of the glands behind the angle of the jaw is the first thing to attract the patient’s atten- tion. The other symptoms are very like those of epithelioma of the tongue—pain during eating or drinking, salivation and foetid breath. Sometimes fluids regurgitate through the nose, and the voice may become nasal and indistinct. As the patient is usually unable to open the mouth widely, it is seldom possible to learn much by inspection, but a digital examination may reveal an irregular, hard, and ulcerated growth. The tumour is sometimes palpable from the outside, filling up the hollow behind the angle of the jaw, and in this situation also the enlarged lymphatic glands may be felt. These are often enlarged out of all proportion to the size of the primary growth. The disease tends to spread locally, causing increasing difficulty in swallowing and breathing. The patient gradually loses strength and may die from exhaustion induced by pain and insomnia, from haemor- rhage, or from septic pneumonia. Treatment of Malignant Tumours.—In early cases an attempt may be made to remove the disease, a preliminary laryngotomyRETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. 1G3 and temporary ligation of the external carotid being performed to facilitate the administration of the anaesthetic, and the control of haemorrhage. The operation can seldom be done through the mouth, and is most satisfactorily accomplished by making an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, from the level of the lobule of the ear to the level of the cricoid cartilage, and from this incision carrying another which curves forwards in the line of the hyoid bone and passes on to the jaw in front of the masseter muscle. Through this incision the infected glands may be removed, and to afford free access to the tumour it has been found advantageous temporarily to resect the lower jaw. In advanced cases it is only possible to relieve the patient’s suffering by palliative measures. Antiseptic mouth-washes are used to diminish the fcetor of the breath and the risk of septic pneumonia, and morphin to relieve pain. The use of the nasal tube, or even a gastrostomy, may be necessary to enable the patient to take sufficient food, and tracheotomy may be called for to relieve dyspnoea. Retro-pharyngeal Abscess.—The chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess associated with tuberculous disease of the cervical vertebrae, in which the pus accumulates behind the prevertebral fascia, has already been described (p. 109). The acute abscess occurs in the space between the pre- vertebral fascia and the wall of the pharynx. The inflammation usually begins in one of the lymphatic glands that occupy this space, and rapidly ends in suppuration, which spreads to the surrounding cellular tissue. It is most common in children during the first and second years, and the patient may be con- valescent after one of the eruptive fevers attended with inflam- mation of the bucco-pharyngeal mucous membrane—such as scarlet fever, measles, or chicken-pox—or may suffer from nasal excoriations or coryza. In some cases the irritation of dentition is the only discoverable cause. In infants, the condition is usually very acute, and is attended with fever, rigors, vomiting, and often with convulsions. The head is held rigid, and usually twisted to one side, and there is pain on attempting to move it. The child has great pain on swallowing, there is regurgitation of the food, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. There is marked dyspnoea and a short, dry cough. The back of the throat is red and swollen, and a localised projection, which is soft and fluctuating, and is usually asymmetrical, may be recognised by digital examination. Some- times the voice is lost, and the patient has severe attacks of164 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. choking—symptoms which have led to the disease being mis- taken for membranous laryngitis. In some cases a soft swelling is palpable on one or on both sides of the neck. Unless promptly treated the condition usually proves fatal. The treatment consists in incising the abscess. The mouth is opened by means of a gag, the head allowed to hang over the end of the table, and the abscess incised, with a guarded bistoury, through the wall of the pharynx. The dangers associated with opening the abscess from the mouth appear to have been exaggerated. A less acute form of retro-pharyngeal abscess sometimes develops in the course of chronic middle-ear disease, the in- flammatory process spreading along the Eustachian tube, in the wall of which an abscess forms and burrows into the retro- pharyngeal space.165 CHAPTER XI. THE JAWS, INCLUDING THE TEETH AND GUMS. Teeth : Dental caries. Gums : Gingivitis ; Pyorrhoea alveolaris ; Hypertrophy ; Epithelioma. Jaws : Inflammatory affections : Periostitis and osteomyelitis; Phosphorus necrosis; Tuberculosis; Syphilis; Actinomycosis—Tumours: Of alveolar process ; Of superior maxilla; Of inferior maxilla — Fracture of upper jaw — Fracture of lower jaw — Affections of the temporo-maxillary articulation: Dislocation of lower jaw ; Acute arthritis; Tuberculous arthritis; Arthritis deformans ; Closure of the jaw. Dental caries is a process of disintegration which begins on the surface of the enamel of a tooth—usually in the region of its neck—and gradually extends through the dentine till the pulp cavity is reached. Infection of the exposed pulp cavity by septic organisms may set up an acute purulent pulpitis. This is associated with severe pain, which is not confined to the diseased tooth, but may spread to the adjacent teeth, and sometimes to all the branches of the fifth nerve on the same side of the face. The inflammatory process may spread from the tooth to the alveolo-dental periosteum, and set up a periodontitis. In the affected tooth there is at first a feeling of uneasiness, which is relieved by the patient biting against it. Later there is severe lancinating or throbbing pain. The affected tooth usually pro- jects beyond its neighbours, and is excessively tender when the opposing tooth comes in contact with it in mastication. The gum becomes red and swollen, and the cheek is cedematous. Periodontitis is usually followed by the formation of an alveolar abscess. The pus which forms at the root of the tooth in most cases works its way through the bone and into the gum, constituting a “gum-boil.” The pus may then burst through the gum, or may spread underneath the external periosteum of the jaw and lead to necrosis of that bone.166 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. In some cases the cheek becomes adherent to the gum and to the jaw before the abscess bursts, and the pus escapes through the skin, leaving a sinus which leads down to the defaulting tooth, and which is very slow to heal because there is usually a small sequestrum at the bottom of it. The opening of the sinus is most commonly situated at the under margin of the lower jaw a little in front of the masseter muscle. An alveolar abscess deeply seated in the upper jaw may open into the antrum of Highmore and cause suppuration in that cavity. The abscess should always be opened from the mouth to avoid a scar on the face. In all cases the extraction of the carious tooth is necessary before the abscess will cease discharging and the sinus heal. If a sequestrum is present it must be removed, and the bone scraped with a sharp spoon. Among the other effects of dental caries may be mentioned localised necrosis of the alveolar margin, septic cellulitis of the neck, and enlarge- ment of the cervical lymphatic glands. Cysts are frequently found attached to the roots of decayed teeth. They are lined with- epithelium, and are probably derived from a belated portion of the enamel organ which has been stimulated to active growth by septic processes in the pulp cavity. They are seldom larger than a pea, and they contain a pultaceous mass like inspissated pus. They give rise to no symptoms, and are only recognised after extraction of the root. Odontomata have already been described (vol. i. p. 194). Affections of the Gums.—Inflammation of the gums— gingivitis—usually occurs in association with a general stomatitis. The gums are swollen and spongy, and may show superficial ulceration, associated with bleeding and extreme foetor of the breath. The teeth become loose, project from the alveoli, and sometimes fall out. These symptoms are prominent in cases of scurvy, and of chronic mercurial poisoning. In chronic lead- poisoning a characteristic narrow blue line is seen on the gums near the dental margin. The treatment consists in removing the cause, improving the hygienic and dietetic conditions of the patient, and administering appropriate drugs, such as lime-juice, iodide of potash, quinine, or cod-liver oil, according to the cause. Antiseptic mouth - washes and dentifrices are also indicated. Chlorate of potash, being excreted in the saliva, is particularly useful. When the gums fungate they may be cauterised. Pyorrhoea alveolaris is an extremely chronic form of gingivitis, which begins in relation to the necks of the teeth and the alveolo- dental periosteum. It is due to septic infection, and is associatedTHE GUMS. 167 with an accumulation of tartar between the gums and the teeth. A muco-purulent discharge escapes from within the free edge of the gum and alveolus. The alveolar borders and the gum subsequently undergo atrophy, so that the roots are exposed, and the teeth are liable to become loose and eventually to fall out. The condition may only affect a few teeth, or it may spread to the whole set, in which case the patient may in the course of some years become edentulous. It is essentially a disease of middle and advanced life. The treatment consists in removing the tartar from the teeth, applying strong antiseptics —pure carbolic, or 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate—to the groove between the teeth and the gums, and employing antiseptic mouth-washes and dentifrices. Hypertrophy of the gums is occasionally met with in children and young adults. The patients are usually mentally defective, and the teeth develop very early and are abnormally large. The gums almost bury the teeth, and form large polypoid masses which tend to fungate. The treatment consists in removing not only the hypertrophied gums, but also the affected alveolus (Heath). A localised hypertrophy—polypus of the gum—sometimes results from the irritation of a carious tooth, and may simulate an epulis (p. 170). The swelling is usually pedunculated, and if cut away close up to the alveolar margin does not tend to recur. Epithelioma sometimes originates on the gum in relation to a carious tooth or to an artificial tooth-plate. The growth tends to invade the bone and to spread to the cheek or buccal mucous membrane, or to the antrum of Highmore. The malignant nature of the growth is suggested by its persisting after the removal of the irritation. The only treatment is early and complete removal of the tumour and adjacent segment of the bone. Other tumours of the gums, such as angiomata and papillomata, are extremely rare. The Jaws. Inflammatory Affections.—Pyogenic Inflammations. — The great majority of pyogenic inflammations of the jaws originate in relation to carious teeth, beginning as a periodontitis which is followed by the formation of an alveolar abscess. It has already been mentioned that these conditions may cause diffuse periostitis which leads to necrosis of considerable portions of168 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. bone. It is probable that the different forms of periostitis and ostitis of the jaws previously attributed to the special poisons of scarlet, typhoid, and other exanthematous fevers, and those associated with mercurial and phosphorus poisoning, are also due to septic infection, and that the general disease merely reduces the patient’s power of resistance, and so acts as a con- dition favouring the growth of pyogenic bacteria. Acute osteomyelitis occasionally attacks the jaws. It is more common in the lower than in the upper jaw, and it usually begins near the angle. Pus rapidly forms under the periosteum, and a considerable area of bone may undergo necrosis. In cancrum oris, also, the maxillse are frequently attacked and undergo necrosis. Phosphorus Necrosis.—A diffuse form of suppurative peri- ostitis, ending in necrosis, is occasionally met with in the jaws— usually the lower—of those who work in match factories and other places where yellow phosphorus is used, and it was for long believed that the disease was essentially due to the action of the phosphorus fumes on the bone. It is now generally recognised that this condition, like the other inflammatory diseases of the jaws, is due to the action of micro-organisms, and that the effect of the phosphorus is merely to lower the vitality of the bone and so render it a more suitable soil for the bacteria. Having isolated the tubercle bacillus from all the cases he has examined, Stockman is of opinion that the disease is tuberculous in nature. Other observers believe that it is due to ordinary pyogenic bacteria. In the early stages, the clinical features resemble those of periodontitis and alveolar abscess. As the disease progresses, there is profuse suppuration under the periosteum, the bone undergoes necrosis, and a peculiarly porous sequestrum of a grey or greenish colour forms. The sequestrum, which may include almost the whole of the bone, is exceedingly slow to separate, and the process is accompanied by an excessive development of periosteal new bone. The face becomes oedematous and swollen, and one or more sinuses may form. The substitution of red for yellow phosphorus, and the systematic examination of the teeth of match-makers imposed by the Factories Acts, have materially diminished the frequency and severity of this disease. The local treatment is carried out on the same lines as for other forms of periostitis and necrosis of the jaws. Tuberculous disease of the jaws is comparatively rare. It is occasionally met with on the orbital margin of the superior169 THE JAWS. maxilla and in the region of the malar bone. In the lower jaw it usually occurs near the angle. The sinuses that form when a cold abscess bursts on the surface are peculiarly intractable and only heal after the diseased bone has been removed, leaving a characteristically depressed scar. Syphilitic affections of the jaws are also rare. A localised gumma may develop in the neighbourhood of the angle of the lower jaw, or the whole of the body of that bone may be the seat of a diffuse gummatous infiltration. In either case the clinical importance of the condition lies in the fact that it is liable to be mistaken for a new growth, such as an osteo-sarcoma, or for actinomycosis. Treatment.—In all inflammatory conditions which have gone on to suppuration, the first indication is to let out the pus, and, whenever possible, this should be done from the mouth to avoid a cicatrix on the face. In certain situations, however—for example, the angle or ascending ramus of the lower jaw, or the facial portion of the upper jaw—it is seldom possible to avoid making an external opening. Efficient drainage must be secured, and the mouth kept sweet by the frequent use of antiseptic washes. When the condition is due to a carious stump or to an unerupted tooth, this should be extracted at the same time as the abscess is opened. The popular belief that the tooth should not be removed until the inflammation subsides is without foundation. The process of separation of a sequestrum is usually slow, taking from two to four months according to the acuteness of the inflammation and the extent of the necrosis. In the lower jaw the sequestrum becomes surrounded by a sheath of new periosteal bone, so that, even if the greater part of the jaw undergoes necrosis, the arch is reproduced, and after removal of the sequestrum little or no deformity results. The sequestrum can usually be removed from the mouth by dividing the mucous membrane and gouging away a portion of the outer aspect of the new sheath. The cavity is swabbed out with pure carbolic acid and stuffed with iodoform gauze. When the ascending ramus is involved, precautions must be taken to prevent closure of the jaw during the healing process. In the upper jaw no new case is formed. Actinomycosis. — Actinomycosis is met with in the jaws more frequently than in any other part of the body, and the lower jaw is attacked oftener than the upper. The actinomyces is believed to gain access to the bone through a carious tooth or through the gum.170 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. At the outset the patient complains of pain and tenderness referred to one or more carious teeth. Within a few weeks a swelling forms—in the lower jaw near the angle as a rule, and in the upper jaw in some part of the cheek. The swelling, which varies in consistence, implicates the bone and cannot be moved apart from the jaw. The skill over it becomes inflamed, suppuration occurs, and sinuses form and give exit to a sero- purulent fluid in which the characteristic yellow “ sulphur grains ” may be detected. The surrounding soft tissues become infiltrated, and the part becomes riddled with sinuses, which lead down to bare bone. The disease usually runs a chronic course, lasting for one or two years, and is not attended with fever, unless pyogenic infection is superadded. In the absence of the characteristic yellow granules actinomycosis may readily be mistaken for tuberculous or syphilitic disease of the jaw, or for sarcoma. The treatment consists in removing the diseased tissue by the knife or sharp spoon, and in the administration of large doses of potassium iodide. Tumours of the Alveolar Process.—Epulis.—The tumours that grow from the alveolar processes of the jaws are essenti- ally of the nature of fibro-sarcomata. They originate in the periosteum of the alveolus or in the periodontal membrane. In some the fibrous element predominates, and they closely resemble fibromata, but the frequency with which they recur after removal, unless the segment of bone from which they spring is also excised, indicates their malignant tendency. In some cases the tumour is of the myeloid type—myeloma—in others it contains masses of bone in its substance—osteo-sarcoma. The tumour may begin between two teeth or in the socket of a tooth which has been lost. It grows slowly, either towards the cavity of the mouth, or more frequently towards the lip or cheek, where it appears as a smooth, firm, rounded swelling, which is adherent to the jaw, and may be sessile or pedunculated. It causes little pain, but is liable to interfere with mastication. As it increases in size it becomes softer, assumes a dark violet colour, and if subjected to pressure or irritation may ulcerate and bleed. The true alveolar tumour is to be diagnosed from a mass of redundant granulations such as may form in relation to a carious stump, from polypus of the gum, from an epithelioma of the gum, a tumour of the body of the jaw, or an angioma. The treatment consists in removing the tumour together with a wedge-shaped or quadrilateral portion of the alveolarTUMOURS OF SUPERIOR MAXILLA. 171 process from which it grows. The area of bone to be removed is outlined by an incision through the mucous membrane and gum, and the bone is divided with a chisel or saw. A plate with teeth should be fitted to fill up the gap in the alveolus. After being freely removed these tumours show little tendency to recur and metastasis is rare. Malignant Tumours of the Superior Maxilla.—Sarcomata are the most common primary tumours of the upper jaw. All varieties are met with, the round or spindle-celled being the most common. Their malignancy is evidenced by the rapidity of their growth, the manner in which they infiltrate adjacent parts, and the frequency with which they recur after removal. They occur at all ages, and have been met with even in children. The clinical features vary according to whether the tumour originates on the outer aspect of the bone, in the maxillary antrum, or behind the bone in the spheno-maxillary or pterygo-maxillary fossa. When the tumour begins in the perios- teum covering the front of the bone, it forms a swelling under the cheek, usually in the vicinity of the malar bone. The tumour grows towards the mouth as well as towards the surface. The cheek is gradually invaded, and in some cases the growth extends into the antrum. In the FlG- 55,. EPulis irom 0 , „ ,, upper law of a woman, early stages there is no obstruction of the a„e(j nasal passage or of the tear duct. There is no displacement of the eye or bulging of the palate. When the tumour originates in the interior of the antrum, it first fills the cavity and then bulges its walls in every direction, so that, on pressure being made over the swelling, the osseous shell of the antrum dimples and crackles under the finger. The antrum is dark on transillumination. The tumour may cause obstruc- tion of the nostril on the corresponding side, and, by pressing on the tear duct, may cause the tears to flow over the cheek. The tumour may be seen through the anterior nares, and may be attended with a sanious discharge from the nose. The eyeball is liable to be displaced upward, and if the ethmoid cells are invaded, it is also pushed outward; the palate may be depressed and the cheek projected (Fig. 56). When the tumour begins in one or other of the fossae behind the jaw, the eyeball is usually protruded by the invasion of the orbit from behind, and in time a swelling appears in the temporal region. If the antrum is invaded, the tumour may172 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. spread in the various directions already indicated. Sometimes a tumour, which appears to have its seat in the upper jaw, is really a downward prolongation of a growth originating in the base of the skull. In all cases the tumour tends to infiltrate the surrounding tissues indiscriminately. There is severe pain referred to the distribution of the second division of the fifth nerve. Hsemorrhage is liable to occur when exposed portions of the tumour ulcerate —for example, in the nasal fossae. Sarcomata are to be distin- guished from the solid and cystic forms of odontoma, which also may distend the bone, bulging the hard palate and projecting on the face (Fig. 57). Carcinoma. — This occurs in the upper jaw in two forms: the columnar or acinous epithe- lioma, which originates in the glandular structures of the mucous membrane of the ant- rum or of the nasal cavities, and forms a soft, rapidly- growing tumour, which tends to invade its surroundings, and to expand the bone and project on the cheek. The squamous epithelioma, which usually originates in the muc- ous membrane of the alveolus or palate, or which may spread to the iaw from the lips or face, has already been described (pp. 152, 157). ... Treatment of Malignant Disease.—The only treatment is com- plete removal, and in most cases this involves excision of the whole of the upper jaw. When the growth has trespassed the limits of the superior maxillary bone the operation is contra- indicated. In general terms it may be said that the cases favourable for operation are those in which the tumour is of slow growth, hard, well defined, limited to the upper jaw, and with the skin still movable over it (Jacobson). The operation consists in reflecting the cheek outward by an incision carried through the middle of the upper lip, round the ala, along the side of the nose to the inner angle of the eye, Fig. 56.—Sarcoma of the Upper Jaw involving sphenoid, ethmoid, and right superior maxilla, and projecting into the right orbit and nose, forming prominent tumour in the situation of the antrum on the right side. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)173 DENTIGEROUS CYSTS. and along the lower border of the orbit on to the malar bone. After the bleeding has been arrested by forceps, the cartilage of the nose is separated from the nasal process of the maxilla, the periosteum of the lioor of the orbit freed, and a copper spatula placed between it and the bone to protect the eye from injury. The jaw is then divided at its junction with the malar bone, at its articulation with the nasal process of the frontal, and in the middle line between its palatal processes. The soft palate is Fig. 57.—Dentigerous Cyst of the Upper Jaw in a man, oat. 36, bulging the hard palate and projecting on the face. (Mr. C. W. Cathcart’s case.) conserved by an incision being carried between it and the hard palate on the affected side. Finally, a broad chisel is pushed in behind the posterior wall of the antrum, and the body of the bone is seized with lion forceps and forcibly wrenched out. After haemorrhage has been arrested, the cheek flap is replaced and stitched in position. Care is taken to prevent the accumula- tion of discharges in the mouth, and the cavity is kept sweet by frequent spraying with peroxide of hydrogen, Condy’s fluid, or other antiseptic. The chief risks are shock, septic pneumonia, and secondary haemorrhage. From the difficulty of completely174 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. eradicating the growth recurrence is very liable to occur, and in a majority of cases the disease sooner or later reappears. In the course of a few months, if there is no sign of recurrence, a plate carrying teeth should be fitted by the dentist to fill the gap and diminish the deformity. Simple tumours of the upper jaw are rare. Fibromata may originate in the periosteum or in the lining membrane of the antrum. They usually tend to assume the characters of sarco- mata. Chondromata usually begin either on the nasal surface of the bone or in the antrum. Osteomata occur in two forms : the exostosis, which may be composed of cancellated or of compact tissue, and the diffuse osteoma or leontiasis ossea (vol. i. p. 623). Tumours of the Inferior Maxilla.—The same varieties are Pig. 58.—Dentigerous Cyst of Lower Jaw containing rudimentary tooth. (From Sir Patrick Heron Watson’s collection.) met with as in the upper jaw. The non-malignant forms—• osteoma, chondroma, and fibroma—are rare. A dentigerous cyst is frequently met with in the lower jaw. It appears as a smooth, rounded, and painless swelling, usually in the region of the molar teeth. The bone gradually becomes expanded and crackles on pressure. The cyst is filled with a glairy mucoid fluid, and may contain one or more unerupted teeth (Fig. 58). The treatment consists in removing the anterior wall of the cyst, scraping the interior, and packing the cavity with iodoform gauze. The myeloid tumour or myeloma is comparatively common. It develops in the interior of the bone and causes the affected segment to become expanded (Fig. 59). It grows slowly, is more or less encapsulated, and therefore does not infiltrate the surrounding tissues. Sometimes it so weakens the bone that pathological fracture occurs. There is no glandularTUMOURS OF INFERIOR MAXILLA. 175 involvement, and the tumour shows little evidence of malig- nancy. The periosteal sarcoma is the most malignant form. It grows rapidly, and infiltrates the surrounding tissues. The submaxillary salivary gland and the cervical lymphatic glands are usually implicated, and the disease tends to spread by metastasis to distant parts. Epithelioma is the commonest tumour affecting the lower jaw. It is usually due to direct spread of cancer from the lip, tongue, or floor of the mouth, and involves the central portion of the bone, including the symphysis. Treatment.—Partial removal of the lower jaw may be under- taken in cases of myeloma, and in certain cases of sarcoma and epithelioma when the tumour is limited to a small area of the bone—for example, to the alveolar process, the angle, the hori- zontal ramus, or the symphysis. In very small tumours it is possible to perform the operation through the mouth, but in most cases an external incision is indispensable. When practi- cable, the arch of the jaw should be left intact by conserving the lower border of the bone. If this cannot be done with safety, the integrity of the arch should be maintained tem- porarily by means of a simple wire splint or other suitable apparatus. Later a plate bearing artificial teeth is fitted by the dentist. Removal of the Symphysis.—In cases of epithelioma of the floor of the mouth the central portion of the lower jaw is fre- quently implicated, and requires to be removed along with the soft tissues. The bone is exposed to the necessary extent by an incision along its lower border, and divided with a Gigli’s wire- saw ; and the muscles inserted on its inner aspect are separated. To prevent the tongue thus deprived of its anterior attachments from falling back into the pharnyx and interfering with respira- tion, it should be transfixed with a strong silkworm-gut suture and held forward. Means should be taken to prevent the lateral segments of the jaw falling together, by interposing a temporary metal or wooden prop. After the wound has healed a denture is fitted, and the prominence of the chin and the alignment of the teeth are thus preserved. Removal of one-half of the lower jaw is called for in the majority of cases of malignant tumour. An incision is made through the lower lip, in the middle line, beginning just below the red margin, and is carried down to the chin, then along the lower border of the bone as far as the angle, and up behind the ascending ramus to a little below the lobule of the ear, stopping17G THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. short of the facial nerve. The facial artery as it crosses the jaw in front of the masseter is caught with forceps before being cut. The masseter, if not involved in the tumour, having been separ- ated from the bone, the flap is thrown up, the reflection of the mucous membrane on to the gum divided, and the jaw thus exposed. An incisor tooth on the affected side is extracted, and the body of the jaw divided a little to one side of the middle line, by means of a Gigli wire-saw. The knife is then carried along the inner side of the bone to divide the attachments of the genio-hyoid, genio - hyoglossus, digastric, mylo-hyoidand internal pterygoid muscles, the mucous membrane, and the inferior dental vessels and nerve. The jaw is then depressed to expose the coronoid prodess in order that the insertion of the temporal muscle may be divided. Finally, the condyle is disarticulated by dividing the external pterygoid tendon and the ligaments of the joint, care being taken to avoid injuring the internal maxillary artery as it lies between the neck of the condyle and the internal lateral ligament. After all haemorrhage has been arrested, the flap is replaced and stitched in position. When removal of the whole jaw is called for, each half is excised separately in the manner above described. The after-treatment is the same as for excision of the upper jaw. Fig. 59.—Osseous Shell of Myeloma of Lower Jaw. (From Professor Annandale’s collection.) Injuries of the Jaavs. Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—Fractures of the upper jaw are nearly always due to direct violence, such as a blow on the face, a stab, or a gunshot wound. They are usually rendered compound by opening into the mouth, into the antrum of High- more, or on to the skin of the cheek. The alveolar process, in whole or in part, may be separated from the body of the bone by a severe blow, such as the kick of a horse. When the whole alveolus is detached, it may carry with it the hard palate. Limited portions of the alveolus are frequently broken in the extraction of teeth. The main trouble after severe alveolar fractures is that the upper177 FRACTURES OF THE JAWS. teeth clo not accurately oppose the lower ones, and mastication is thereby interfered with. When the nasal portion of the superior maxilla is broken, the lachrymal sac and nasal duct may be damaged and the flow of the tears obstructed. In such cases emphysema is also liable to develop. Fractures of the facial portion are frequently compli- cated by haemorrhage from the infra-orbital vessels, and anaesthesia of the area supplied by the infra-orbital nerve. Suppuration may occur in the antrum later. In some cases the upper jaw is driven in as a whole, and in others the fracture radiates to the base of the skull and cerebral symptoms develop. The treatment consists in reducing any deformity .that may be present, ensuring efficient drainage, and keeping the mouth as aseptic as possible. Union takes place very rapidly, and owing to the vascularity of the parts necrosis is rare, even when suppuration ensues. When the alveolar portion is comminuted, the fragments may be kept in position by fixing the lower jaw against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage, or by adjusting a moulded lead or gutta-percha splint to the alveolus and palate. The malar bone is sometimes fractured by direct violence, along with the adjacent portion of the superior maxilla. It may be possible to manipulate the displaced fragments into position from the mouth with the fingers introduced between the cheek and the gum; if this fails a small incision should be made in the mucous membrane anterior to the masseter, and the bone levered into position with a periosteum separator. The zygomatic arch is occasionally fractured by a direct blow. As the depressed fragments are liable to interfere with the movements of the lower jaw they should be elevated either by manipulation, or through an incision. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—The most common situation for fracture of the lower jaw is through the body of the bone in the vicinity of the canine tooth (Fig. 60). The depth of the socket of this tooth, and the comparative narrowness of the jaw at this level, render it the weakest part of the arch. The fracture is usually due to direct violence, such as a blow with the fist, the kick of a horse, or a fall from a height. It is sometimes bilateral, the bone giving way at the canine fossa on one side and just in front of the masseter on the other; or both fractures may be at the canine fossae. The fracture is usually oblique from above downwards and outwards, and is nearly always rendered compound by tearing of the mucous membrane of the mouth. VOL. II—12178 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. When only one side is broken, the smaller fragment is usually displaced outwards and forwards by the masseter and temporal muscles, so that it overlaps the larger fragment. In bilateral fractures the central loose segment is driven downwards and backwards towards the hyoid bone by the force causing the fracture, and is held in this position by the muscles attached to the chin, while both lateral fragments are tilted outwards and forwards by the masseters and temporals. The amount of dis- placement is best recognised by observing the degree of irregu- larity in the line of the teeth. Abnormal mobility and crepitus Fig. 60.—Multiple Fracture of Lower Jaw. (From Sir Patrick Heron Watson’s collection.) are readily elicited, and there is severe pain, particularly if the inferior dental nerve is stretched or crushed. The patient’s attitude is characteristic; he supports the broken jaw with his hands, and keeps it as steady as possible when he attempts to speak or swallow. Saliva dribbles from the open mouth and the speech is indistinct. In adults, the bone may be broken at the symphysis as a result of lateral compression of the jaw—for example, by pressing together the angles. The general characters of the fracture are the same as those of fracture of the body, but the displacement is inconsiderable. Fractures at the angle and through the ascending ramus are less common, and are not attended with deformity, as the frag-179 FRACTURES OF THE .TAWS. ments are retained in position by the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. Fracture of the coronoid process is extremely rare. The condyles are frequently fractured just below the insertion of the external pterygoid muscles (Fig. 60) by a fall on the chin or by a severe blow on the side of the face. When the fracture is unilateral, the broken condyle is tilted inwards and forwards by the external pterygoid, and can be palpated from the mouth, while the rest of the jaw is displaced to- ivards the affected side, and not away from it, as happens in unilateral dislocation. When the fracture is bilateral the lower jaw falls backwards, so that the lower teeth lie behind those of the upper jaw. In a few cases the condyle has been driven through the glenoid cavity, causing fracture of the base of the skull. Complications.—As the majority of fractures of the jaw are compound, suppura- tion is comparatively common during the process of repair, but if antiseptic precau- tions are taken, it can usually be kept in check, and seldom leads to necrosis. The teeth adjacent to the fracture are liable to be loosened or displaced. If merely loosened they should be left in place, as they usually become firmly fixed in the course of a few days. Care must be taken that a displaced tooth does not pass between the fragments, as this has been the cause of difficulty in reducing a fracture and of its failure to unite. Irregular union, by destroying the alignment of the teeth, leads to interference with mastication. The bone usually unites in from four to six weeks. Want of union is a rare event. Treatment.—In the majority of cases, after the fracture has been reduced, the fragments can be kept in apposition by closing the mouth and keeping the lower jaw fixed against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage (Fig. 61). Care must be taken that the posterior tails of the bandage do not pull the lower jaw backward. Additional security may be given by a light poro- plastic or gutta-percha splint fitted to the chin, the vertical portion passing well up the ramus of the jaw. The apparatus is worn for four or five weeks, during which time the patient is fed on fluid or semi-fluid food. The mouth must be regularly Fig. 61.—Four - tailed Bandage applied for Fracture of Lower Jaw.180 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. purified by an antiseptic mouth-wash, or by a spray of hydrogen peroxide. In a certain number of fractures implicating the body of the jaw, and particularly in bilateral fractures, there is some difficulty in maintaining the fragments in apposition by the four-tailed bandage and external splint. It may then be necessary to employ some form of dental splint, of which Hammond’s is perhaps the best. It consists of a stout nickelled-iron or silver- wire frame, which is accurately moulded so as to surround several teeth on each side of the fracture. Loops of wire are then passed between the individual teeth and round the frame so that the splint is divided into a series of compartments, each of which contains a tooth. To obtain the most satisfactory results with this appliance the aid of an expert dentist is necessary. The method of applying loops of wire round the teeth on each side of the fracture is open to the objections that it fails to secure complete and absolute apposition, and that the teeth are liable to be loosehed or displaced. In rare cases it is necessary to unite the fragments by wire sutures. Even in badly united fractures the original contour of the bone is eventually restored by the movements of the tongue moulding it into shape. Affections of the Temporo-maxillary Articulation. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—Dislocation of the lower jaw may be unilateral or bilateral. The bilateral form is the more common, and is met with most frequently in middle life, and in females. The liability to dislocation is greatest when the mouth is widely open—for example, in yawning, laughing, or vomiting—as under these conditions the condyle, accompanied by the meniscus, passes forwards out of the glenoid cavity and rests on the summit of the articular eminence. If, while the bone is in this position, the external pterygoid muscle is thrown into contraction, it pulls the condyle forward over the eminence into the hollow beneath the root of the zygoma, and the con- traction of the masseter and temporal muscles retains it there. Muscular contraction is therefore an important factor in the production of these dislocations. Dislocation may be produced also by a downward blow on the chin, by the unskilful introduction of a mouth gag, particu- larly while the patient is ansesthetised, or even in the attempt to take a big bite—say, of an apple. The dislocation that results from such causes is usually unilateral.DISLOCATION OF JAW. 181 In some persons the ligaments of the joint are unnaturally lax, and dislocation is liable to occur repeatedly from compara- tively slight causes—recurrent dislocation. Clinical Features.—The appearance of a patient suffering from bilateral dislocation is very characteristic. The mouth is open, the jaw fixed, and the chin protruded so that the lower teeth project beyond those of the upper jaw. The patient has diffi- culty in swallowing, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. As the lips cannot be ap- proximated the speech is indistinct and guttural. Just in front of the auditory meatus a deep hollow can be felt, and in front of this the condyle forms an undue projection. The coronoid process is dis- placed below and behind the malar bone, and may be felt through the mouth. The contracted belly of the temporal muscle forms a more or less marked pro- minence above the zygoma. In unilateral dislocation (Fig. 62) the deformity is the same in character, but is less marked, and in mild cases its cause is liable to be overlooked. In most cases the chin deviates towards the sound side. Treatment. — In recent cases reduction is usually easily effected. The patient should be seated on a low chair or stool, an assistant supporting the head from behind. The surgeon, standing in front, places his thumbs, well protected by a roll of lint, far back on the molar teeth, and with his other fingers grasps the body of the jaw. Pressure is now made downwards and backwards to free the condyles from the articular eminence, and as this is effected the tip of the chin is carried upward, while the whole jaw is pushed directly backward. The condyle slips into position, sometimes with a distinct snap. When diffi- culty is experienced in levering the condyle from its abnormal position, a cork may be placed between the molar teeth on each side to act as a fulcrum. After reduction the jaw is fixed by Fig. 62.—Unilateral Dislocation of Lower Jaw, caused by yawning, showing promin- ence of right condyle on cheek.182 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. means of a four-tailed bandage for a week or ten days. The patient is warned to avoid all wide movements of the jaw for some weeks. Old-standing Dislocation.—It sometimes happens that, from having been overlooked or neglected, the dislocation remains unreduced. In such cases the movement of the jaw is in time partly restored, and the patient acquires sufficient control of the lips to be able to articulate intelligibly and to prevent dribbling of saliva. The power of masticating the food, however, remains impaired. The hollow behind the condyle and the projection of the chin persist. Reduction by manipulation is seldom possible after the dislocation has existed for more than three months, but it has been effected as long as ten months after the accident. Several attempts at reduction should be made at intervals of two or three days, and if these fail recourse may be had to operation. As the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles have assumed a vertical position and become shortened, they form an obstacle to reduction, and to overcome their action it is necessary to separate them from their insertion to the ascending ramus of the bone through an incision carried round the angle. If the adhesions about the dislocated condyle are then separated, reduction can be effected (Samter). In some cases it is neces- sary to excise the condyle to restore movement. Sub-luxation of the Temporo-maxillary Joint. — In rare cases the inter-articular cartilage becomes loose, and is liable to be displaced and to interfere with the movements of the jaw. Annandale has successfully treated this condition by suturing the cartilage in position. Acute arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint occurs in two forms, non-suppurative and suppurative. The non-suppurative form is usually due to rheumatism or to gonorrhoeal infection, and as a rule is bilateral. The patient complains of neuralgic pains shooting towards the ears and temples, and of pain in the joint on movement. The jaw is therefore kept fixed, usually with the mouth slightly open and the chin protruded. He is unable to masticate, and the speech is indistinct. There is effusion into the cavity of the joint and a swelling may be detected in front of the ear. The inflamma- tion may subside and movement be restored, or fibrous ankylosis may ensue. The suppurative form may be due either to direct spread of inflammation from adjacent parts, as, for example, in middle ear disease, suppurative parotitis, or pyogenic affections of the lower jaw, or it may be part of a general pysemic infection, as some-CLOSURE OF THE JAW. 183 times occurs after exanthematous fevers and in gonorrhoea. The clinical features are similar to those of the non-suppurative form, but the signs referable to the joint are often masked by those of the adjacent inflammation. When the pus originates in the joint, it may point either towards the skin or into the external auditory meatus through the Glaserian fissure. The joint is usually completely disorganised and ankylosis results. Tuberculous arthritis is very rare. It may occur as a primary infection, but is usually secondary to tuberculous disease of the jaw, the temporal bone, or the middle ear. It leads to destruction of the joint and ankylosis. It is treated by incisioU and scraping, or by excision of the condyle. Arthritis deformans is a comparatively common affection, and is generally bilateral. In the earlier stages of the disease the condyle is usually hypertrophied and distorted, and the glenoid cavity is correspondingly broadened and flattened, and in time may be filled up by new bone. Osteophytic outgrowths form around the joint and lead to fixation or locking. The enlarged condyle may be felt in front of the ear, and there is pain and cracking on movement; the pain is worst at night and in wet weather. The jaw is usually depressed and the chin protruded. The disease runs a very chronic course, with occasional acute exacerbations. Excision of the condyle may be advisable when non-operative measures have failed to give relief. In the later stages, the condyle, together with the meniscus, may be worn away and completely disappear. Closure or Fixation of the Jaw.—It is necessary to distinguish between temporary and permanent fixation of the jaw. Temporary fixation is due to spasmodic contraction of the muscles of mastication, particularly the masseter. This may be symptomatic of some inflammatory condition in the vicinity, such as a pyogenic affection of the lower jaw—for example, that associated with a carious root or an unerupted wisdom tooth, or of parotitis or tonsillitis. In such cases the spasm passes off on the removal of the cause. It is occasionally hysterical. Temporary fixation may be due to rheumatic or syphilitic myositis, and this is sometimes followed by fibroid degeneration of the muscle, rendering the fixation permanent. Permanent fixation may be due to a variety of causes. Fibroid degeneration of muscles following myositis has already been mentioned. Much more frequently it results from cica- tricial contraction of the soft parts of the face or mouth following such conditions as cancrum oris, ulceration, or burns. Fixation of the joint, as a result of fracture or dislocation, or of any184 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. of the forms of arthritis, is also comparatively common. The ankylosis may be fibrous or osseous, and may be intra- or extra- articular. The clinical features vary with the degree of separation of the jaws. There is always some deformity, and more or less interference with mastication and speech. Owing to the patient’s inability to cleanse the mouth particles of food lodge and de- compose there, causing irritation of the mucous membrane and foetor of the saliva and breath. When osseous ankylosis occurs in childhood, it leads to an arrest of development of the lower jaw, which is small and markedly receding, so that the teeth do not oppose those of the upper jaw. Treatment.—When the cause of the fixation is in the joint itself, the best treatment is to resect one or both condyles. An incision is made along the lower border of the zygoma; the parotid gland is retracted along with the branches of the facial nerve ; the joint is exposed by clearing away the posterior fibres of the masseter, and the condyle divided by a Gigli’s wire-saw or an osteotome. The attachment of the external pterygoid is then separated and the condyle removed, but the meniscus is retained. In some cases these measures are insufficient, and it is necessary to resect the condyle, the coronoid process, and a portion of the ascending ramus. When the fixation is due to cicatricial contraction of the soft parts, mobility is best restored by forming an artificial joint well in front of the cicatricial tissue, as suggested by Esmarch. This is effected by excising a wedge of bone, with its base downwards, from the horizontal ramus, the base of the wedge measuring about an inch To prevent the bone reuniting, the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles should be stitched across the gap between the ends, and active and passive movements must be carried out from the first.185 CHAPTER XII. THE TONGUE. Wounds—Inflammatory Affections : Acute parenchymatous glossitis and hemi-glossitis; Mercurial glossitis; Chronic superficial glossitis; Leucoplakia ; Smoker s patch—Tuberculous disease ; Syphilitic affec- tions: Primary lesion ; Secondary lesions; Tertiary lesions: Scleros- ing glossitis ; Gummata; Ulcers and fissures—Tumours: Carcinoma; Sarcoma; Innocent tumours; Cysts — Thyro-glossal tumours and cysts—Malformations: Absence; Bifid tongue; Tongue tie; Exces- sive length of frenum ; Macroglossia ; Atrophy—Nervous Affections. Wounds of the tongue are most commonly produced by the teeth, as, for instance, when a child falls on the chin with the tongue protruded, or when an epileptic bites his tongue during a fit. Less frequently a foreign body, such as a pipe-stem, a bullet, or a displaced tooth, is driven into the tongue. The immediate risk of such injuries is haemorrhage, particularly when the posterior part of the tongue is implicated and the wound penetrates deeply. Of the later complications sepsis and secondary haemorrhage are the most serious, and the risk is greatest when a foreign body is embedded in the tongue. Treatment.—In superficial wounds near the tip the oozing is efficiently arrested by sutures, but in deeper wounds, and especially if they implicate the posterior part of the tongue, a ligature must be applied to the bleeding vessel. Secondary haemorrhage is much more difficult to arrest on account of the friable state of the tissues, and it may be necessary to ligature the lingual or even the external carotid in the neck. To prevent septic complications any foreign body must be removed and an antiseptic moutli-wash regularly employed. Cases have been recorded in which such a foreign body as a bullet, a needle, or a piece of a pipe-stem, has remained embedded in the substance of the tongue for a long period, and caused a firm, indolent swelling liable to be mistaken for a new growth.186 THE TONGUE. Inflammatory Affections.—Acute Parenchymatous Glossitis. —Acute inflammation implicating the whole of the substance of the tongue is comparatively rare. It may follow on an attack of erysipelas or of scarlet fever. The numerous forms of bacteria that exist in the mouth play an important part in its production. When streptococci are present the condition is of the nature of a diffuse cellulitis, and may spread to the tissues of the neck—one form of angina Ludovici; a staphylo- coccal infection results in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. The onset is usually sudden, and is marked by severe pain and stiffness of the tongue, particularly when the patient attempts to masticate or to speak. The tongue rapidly swells, and in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours may fill the mouth and protrude beyond the teeth. It is fixed and covered with a thick white fur. There is profuse salivation, and in addition to difficulty in swallowing and speaking there may be considerable interference with respiration. The salivary and lymphatic glands in the submaxillary space are enlarged and tender. If suppuration does not occur, the symptoms begin to subside in three or four days. The treatment consists in administering a sharp purge and employing an antiseptic mouth-wash; leeches may be applied to the submaxillary region with benefit. When dysphagia and dyspnoea are prominent symptoms, it may be necessary to make longitudinal incisions into the substance of the tongue to relieve the congestion. If an abscess forms it must of course be opened. Occasionally the inflammation is confined to one-half of the tongue —hemi-glossitis. The swelling is confined to the anterior part of the tongue, usually on the left side. This variety rarely ends in suppuration. Mercurial Glossitis.—An acute form of glossitis was formerly common among workers in mercury, and in patients taking this drug medicinally. There is profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. The swelling of the tongue is associated with a spongy condition of the gums, looseness of the teeth, and other signs of mercurial stomatitis. The treatment is the same as that for mercurial stomatitis (p. 155). Chronic Superficial Glossitis. — Several forms of chronic superficial glossitis are met with. The most important, as it is frequently followed by the development of epithelioma, is that known as leucoplakia or leuco-keratosis. The tongue is covered with white patches, which result from overgrowth and cornification of the surface epithelium, wherebyTUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 187 it becomes thickened and raised above the surface, and at the same time there is small-celled infiltration of the submucous tissue. The patches are irregularly lozenge-shaped, and when crowded together they present the appearance of a mosaic. Similar patches are often present on the mucous membrane lining the cheek. The disease is met with almost invariably in men between the ages of forty and fifty. Syphilis appears to be an important predisposing factor, and any form of irritation—for example, the chewing or smoking of tobacco, the drinking of raw spirits, friction by a rough tooth or tooth-plate—tends to induce or to aggravate the condition. The milder forms give rise to no discomfort, but when the condition is advanced the patient complains of dryness and hard- ness of the tongue, with impairment of the sense of taste and persistent thirst. When cracks, fissures, or warts develop, there may be pain on taking hot or irritating food. The glands below the jaw may be enlarged. The disease is most intractable and persistent, and even after disappearing for a time is liable to recur. After a variable number of years epithelioma is prone to develop, usually in one or other of the fissures which accompany the condition. The treatment consists in removing all sources of irritation and employing mouth-washes. Butlin recommends antiseptic ointments applied before going to bed. In some cases painting the patches with chromic or lactic acid is useful in removing the excess of epithelium, but stronger caustics are to be avoided. Constitutional treatment is of little use even when the patient has suffered from syphilis. The “smoker’s patch” consists of a small oval area on the front of the tongue from which the papillae have disappeared. It is slightly raised, smooth and red, and may be covered with a yellowish-brown or yellowish-white crust. It causes no dis- comfort unless the crust is removed, when a raw sensitive surface is exposed. The condition is liable to spread over the tongue if the patient persists in smoking. It may eventually assume the characters of leucoplakia. The treatment consists in stopping the smoking or chewing of tobacco, and painting the patches with chromic acid, tannic acid, or alum, and using a chlorate of potash mouth-wash. Tuberculous Disease.—The tongue is very rarely the primary seat of tuberculosis. The majority of cases occur in adult males, who suffer from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis, the tongue being infected by bacilli from the sputum. In otherTHE TONGUE. 188 cases the infection is due to direct spread of lupus from the face or nose. The condition may begin as a firm, painless lump, seldom larger than a hazel-nut, on one side or near the tip of the tongue. At first the swelling is covered by epithelium ; in time caseation takes place, the epithelium gives way, and an open sore is formed. The tuberculous ulcer is the form most frequently met with. The surface of the ulcer is uneven, pale, and flabby, and is covered with a yellowish-grey discharge, with here and there feeble granulations showing through. The edges are shreddy, sinuous in outline, and there is little or no induration. The surrounding parts are slightly swollen, and may be studded with small tuberculous foci. The ulcer may be quite superficial, or it may extend into the muscular substance. The tip of the tongue may be completely eaten away so that it looks as if it had been cut off with_ a knife. As the disease advances there is severe pain and usually profuse salivation. The submaxillary glands may be, but are not always, enlarged. The ulcer may heal over, but it soon breaks down again. Unless there is advanced pulmonary disease, or other contra- indication to operation, the ulcer should be excised. Care must be taken to avoid reinfecting the raw surface of the wound. When excision is impracticable it is only possible to palliate the symptoms by dusting with orthoform, or applying local anaes- thetics, and by attending to the hygiene of the mouth and removing all sources of irritation. Syphilitic Affections.—A 'primary sore on the tongue is accompanied by marked enlargement of the submaxillary lym- phatic glands on one or on both sides. It is most common in men, infection usually taking place through the medium of tobacco pipes, or implements such as the blow-pipes of glass- blowers. During the secondary stage of syphilis—particularly in the later periods—mucous patches and ulcers are very common, and they may assume a condylomatous or warty appearance. The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are sclerosing glossitis, gummata, and gummatous ulcers. Sclerosing glossitis is the term applied by Fournier to a condition in which there is an abundant new formation of con- nective tissue in the substance of the tongue, leading to the appearance of tuberous masses on the dorsum. These tend to be oval in outline, are elevated above the level of the normal mucous membrane, and present a dull red mammillated or lobulated189 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. surface, comparable to the surface of a cirrhotic liver (Fig. 63). They are firm, elastic, and insensitive. A gumma is usually situated on the dorsum of the tongue, and more often towards the centre than at the edges. As it seldom implicates the floor of the mouth or the base of the tongue, the tongue can usually be protruded freely. It forms an indolent swelling, which tends slowly to break down and ulcerate. So long as it remains unbroken it does not cause Fig. 63.—Sclerosing Glossitis associated with leucoplakia in a man, set. 65. pain, and there is no enlargement of the adjacent lymphatic glands. Two forms are met with—the superficial, and the deep or parenchymatous. A superficial gumma appears as a small hard nodule under the mucous membrane of the tongue, varying in size from a pin’s head to a pea. The mucous membrane over it is redder than normal, and in the early stages retains its papillae, but later becomes smooth. It tends to break down early, forming an extensive superficial ulcer. Superficial gummata are often multiple. The deep or parenchymatous form varies in size from a hazel-THE TONGUE. 190 nut to a walnut, and feels like a hard body in the substance of the tongue. The mucous membrane over the swelling is of normal colour, but is usually devoid of papillae. The gumma may remain for months unchanged, or may approach the surface, soften, and break down, leaving a deep ragged ulcer. Syphilitic ulcers and fissures are nearly always preceded by gummata, which have softened and broken down. The ulcers have seldom the typically rounded or serpiginous outline of gummatous ulcers on other parts of the body. The base is ragged and unhealthy, and on it a yellowish grey slough re- sembling a piece of wash-leather may be seen. The edges are steep, ragged, and often undermined, and the surrounding parts thickened and indurated. The neighbouring glands are not usually enlarged. The ulcer is extremely painful when irritated by food, hot fluids, or spirits. If untreated, the sore may remain indolent and for months show no sign either of spreading or healing. It may at any time become the seat of cancer. Syphilitic fissures are met with as long, narrow, deep clefts, or as stellate or sinuous cracks in the substance of the tongue. After the healing of these ulcers and fissures permanent clefts and furrows remain. Treatment.—The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are treated on the same general lines as other tertiary lesions. Locally, the use of antiseptic mouth-washes, such as chlorate of potash or black wash diluted with lime-water, the insufflation of powdered iodoform and borax with a small quantity of morphin, or the application of mercurial ointment is useful. The sore must be thoroughly cleansed before these remedies are applied. Tumotjks. Carcinoma is by far the most common form of new growth met with in the tongue, and it is almost invariably a squamous epithelioma. Epithelioma generally occurs between the ages of forty and sixty, and attacks males oftener than females, in the proportion of about six to one. Its development is favoured by any long- continued irritation, such as the rubbing of the tongue against a carious tooth, an ill-fitting tooth-plate, or the rough end of a clay pipe. Chronic superficial glossitis, syphilitic fissures or scars, and chronic ulcers also act as predisposing factors. The repeated application of strong caustics to chronic inflammatory conditions of the tongue is, according to Butlin, an important determining cause of cancer.CANCER. 191 The disease is usually situated in the anterior half of the tongue, and more commonly on the edge than on the dorsum. The disease may begin as an indolent excoriation, ulcer, or fissure, as a warty growth, particularly in association with a patch of leucoplakia, or, less frequently, as a hard nodule beneath the mucous membrane. In all cases ulceration begins early, and the base of the ulcer and the surrounding parts become in- durated. The lymphatic glands are, as a rule, very early infected. Clinical Features. — The clinical appearances vary widely. Sometimes the surface pre- sents a warty growth ; some- times it is excavated, form- ing a deep ulcer with raised nodular edges ; in other cases the ulcer is smooth, and its edges even and rounded. Extreme hardness of the edges and of the base of the ulcer is always a character- istic feature. The tongue tends to become unduly fixed, especially when the disease spreads to the floor of the mouth, so that it cannot be protruded, and the restric- tion of its movement pro- duces a characteristic inter- ference with articulation, certain words being slurred, and when the fixation is ex- treme it may interfere with mastication and swallowing. Fig. 64. — Epithelioma of dorsum of Tongue supervening on chronic super- ficial glossitis of many years’ standing. The patient complains of a constant gnawing pain in the tongue, and of severe pain shooting along the branches of the fifth nerve, and especially towards the ear. In the advanced stages there is profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. When the disease is situated on the edge of the tongue it tends to spread to the floor of the mouth and to invade the lower jaw. If situated far back on the dorsum, it spreads towards the epiglottis, the pillars of the fauces, and the tonsil. The neighbouring lymphatic glands—particularly those under the jaw and along the line of the carotid vessels—soon become192 THE TONGUE. enlarged, so that they are palpable. The submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands are also liable to be affected. The enlarged cervical glands are liable to undergo softening, or to suppurate and burst on the skin surface, forming fungating ulcers. Metastasis to the liver, lungs, and other viscera is exceptional. If the disease is allowed to run its course, the patient usually dies in from twelve to eighteen months from repeated small haemorrhages, septic absorption, or septic pneu- monia. Differential Diagnosis.—Cancer of the tongue has to be diagnosed from syphilitic and tuberculous affections, from papillomata, and from simple ulcers and fissures. It is to be borne in mind that any of these conditions may take on malignant characters and develop into epithelioma. The micro- scopic examination of a portion of the growth removed under cocain anaesthesia is often useful. When there is still doubt as to the nature of the growth, it should be treated as if it were cancerous. An unbroken gumma is liable to be confused only with the uncommon form of epithelioma, which begins as a nodule under the mucous membrane. Gummata, however, are often multiple, and the tongue shows old scars or other evidence of syphilis. Gummatous ulcers are usually situated on the dorsum of the tongue, are frequently multiple, and have sloughy, undermined edges; the surrounding parts, although indurated, are not so densely hard as in cancer; there is not necessarily any involve- ment of lymphatic glands. The cancerous ulcer is usually single and situated on the edge of the tongue ; its edges are hard, raised, and nodular; and the glands are usually enlarged and hard. It must not be forgotten, however, that cancer may become engrafted on syphilitic lesions. Tuberculous ulcers usually occur in association with other and unmistakable evidences of tuberculosis. It is not so essential to establish the diagnosis with certainty as the treat- ment is the same as for cancer, namely removal. This remark applies also to papillomata which show a marked tendency to become malignant. Simple ulcers and fissures are usually recognised by the history of the condition, the absence of indura- tion and of glandular involvement, and by the fact that they heal quickly on removal of the cause. Treatment.—The only treatment that offers any hope of cure is early and free removal of the disease. Not only must the segment of the tongue on which the growth is situated be193 CANCER. widely excised, but all the lymphatic connections must also be removed whether the glands are palpably enlarged or not. Some surgeons advocate the performance of a preliminary laryngotomy, on the ground that it facilitates the administration of the anaesthetic, and enables the back of the mouth to be packed so as to diminish the risk of blood passing into the air-passages, but in our opinion this is only necessary when the disease is extensive and involves the door of the mouth, the tonsil, or the jaw. Preliminary ligation of the lingual artery or temporary occlusion of the external carotid is also recom- mended by some. The routine practice of removing the whole of the cervical fascia together with the contents of the anterior triangle of the neck, either at the same time as the tongue is excised, or preferably about ten days later, as advocated by Butlin, has much to recommend it. This is done by carrying an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the mastoid process to the sterno-elavicular joint, and another at right angles to this, from the upper border of the thyi-oid cartilage to the symphysis menti. The two skin flaps thus delimited are reflected, exposing the cervical fascia, which, together with the cervical, submaxillary, and submental lymphatic glands, and the submaxillary salivary gland, is carefully removed by dissection. The operation for removal of the tongue varies with the site and extent of the growth. In cases of cancer limited to one side of the anterior portion of the tongue, Whitehead’s method is suitable, but it may be employed even when the whole tongue is implicated. The mouth is opened widely with a gag, and each half of the tongue is transfixed with a loop of silk-worm gut passed through its substance, to enable it to be pulled well out of the mouth. The tongue is then split along the middle line to well be- yond the level of the growth. The mucous membrane along the line of its reflection on to the alveolar process is next divided with scissors, and the anterior pillar of the fauces cut through. Next the muscles between the tongue and the floor of the mouth are snipped through with the scissors, the vessels being caught with forceps as they are divided. Finally the tongue is cut across well behind the tumour. The lingual vessels can usually be seized with forceps before being cut. If necessary the other, half of the tongue is then removed in the same way. Syme’s operation is suitable to cases in which the whole tongue has to be removed along with the structures in the floor VOL. II—13194 THE TONGUE. of tlie mouth. It consists in carrying an incision in the middle line through the lower lip, over the chin, and down to the hyoid bone. The symphysis of the lower jaw is then divided by means of a Gigli’s saw passed between the incisor teeth, and the tongue separated from the alveolar process on each side. The anterior pillars of the fauces having been divided, the muscles inserted into the genioid tubercles are separated from the bone, and the diseased tissue dissected up from the floor of the mouth. The tongue is then divided transversely well beyond the disease, the lingual arteries being secured if possible before being cut. The two halves of the jaw are then wired and the soft parts sutured. If, as not infrequently happens, the growth is adherent to the symphysis, this portion of the bone must also be removed. In all these operations, before putting the patient back to bed a loop of silk-worm gut should be passed through the stump of the .^tongue to prevent it falling back and obstructing the respiration. The after-treatment consists in keejring the mouth sweet by spraying it frequently with peroxide of hydrogen and washing it out with Condy’s fluid or other antiseptic lotion. The patient is fed with nourishing fluid food through a tube attached to a feeding cup. It is of great importance to allow him to sit up, and to get him out of bed, as early as possible. The great risk after operation is septic pneumonia from the inhaling of blood and septic products. Hence the importance of keeping the mouth as dry and as sweet as possible. The patient is usually able to be out of bed on the fourth or fifth day, and is well in a fortnight or three weeks. The operation, even when followed by recurrence, usually prolongs life by six or eight months, and renders the patient more comfortable by removing the foul ulcer from the mouth. When recurrence takes place it is usually in the glands, and may be attended with great suffering. Treatment of Inoperable Cases.—The mouth must be kept as sweet as possible. The pain may be relieved to some extent by cocain or orthoform, but as a rule the free administration of morphin is called for. Pain shooting up to the ear may be relieved by resection of the lingual nerve. If haemorrhage takes place from the ulcerated surface and cannot be controlled by adrenalin, or other local styptics, it may be necessary to ligate the lingual, or even the external carotid artery. Interference with respiration may necessitate tracheotomy. When the patient has difficulty in taking food recourse should be had to the use of the stomach tube or to gastrostomy.SARCOMA. 195 Sarcoma of the tongue is rare. The small-celled, the round- celled, and the lympho-sarcoma are the varieties usually met with. Some show little tendency to recur after removal, while others are extremely malignant. The diagnosis is always difficult, and is seldom made until a portion of the growth has been removed and examined microscopically. Innocent Tumours and Cysts.—Lipomata, fibromata, and various forms of angiomata are occasionally met with. They are all of slow growth, and only give rise to inconvenience by their bulk. Papillomata may occur on any part of the tongue, and at any age. They may be pedunculated or sessile, and are very liable to become malignant, especially when associated with leucoplakia. They should be freely removed by excising a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue. Dermoid cysts are met with beneath the tongue, lying in the middle line, between the genio-hyoglossi, and on the upper sur- face of the mylo-hyoid muscles. They may be noticed soon after birth, or may only attract attention during adult life. The cyst usually projects under the chin, forming a soft fluctuating swell- ing, which varies in size from a pigeon’s to a turkey’s egg. When it bulges towards the mouth it is liable to be mistaken for a retention cyst of one of the salivary glands. It is dis- tinguished by its mesial position, its yellow colour, and its opacity, the retention cyst being to one side of the middle line, purplish in colour and translucent. The cyst should be dissected out, either from the mouth or from under the chin according to circumstances. Hydatid and cysticercus cysts have also been met with in the tongue. Thyro-glossal Tumours and Cysts.—Solid tumours and cysts may develop in the embryonic tract which passes from the isthmus of the thyroid gland to the foramen csecum at the base of the tongue—the thyro-glossal tract of His. The solid tumours have the same structure as the thyroid gland, and in some cases they attain considerable size. These tumours are liable to become cystic, the cysts being lined with ciliated epithelium and containing colloid material. The growths occupy the dorsum of the tongue, and extend from the foramen csecum backwards towards the epiglottis. They are of a bluish-brown or dark red colour, and are liable to repeated attacks of lnemorrhage. In the cystic forms bleeding may take place into a cyst, causing it to become suddenly enlarged, or the cyst may burst and the blood escape into the mouth. These variations in size and repeated attacks of bleeding help to distinguish thyro-glossal tumours from other swellings of the tongue. Treatment is onlyTHE TONGUE. 196 called for when the swelling causes interference with speech or swallowing ; it consists in removing the tumour by dissection. When the lower end of the tract becomes cystic it forms a swelling in the neck (p. 248). Malformations.—Complete or partial absence of the tongue is exceedingly rare. Occasionally the fore part of the tongue is bifid. The func- tion of the organ is not interfered with, and the operation of paring and suturing the two halves is only called for to remove the disfigurement. Congenital tongue-tie is a condition in which the tip of the tongue is bound down to the floor of the mouth by an abnormally short and narrow frenum, or by folds of mucous membrane on each side of the frenum. The patient is unable to protrude the tongue. This deformity is rare. It is very common, however, for parents to blame an imaginary tongue-tie when a -ehild is slow to begin to speak, or when he speaks in- distinctly or stammers, and surgeons are frequently requested to divide the frenum under such circumstances. In the vast majority of cases nothing is found to be wrong with the frenum. In the rare cases of true tongue-tie the edges of the shortened bands should be snipped with scissors close behind the incisor teeth, and then torn -with the finger-nail. Excessive length of the frenum is occasionally met with, and in children may allow of the tongue falling back into the throat and causing sudden suffocative attacks, one of which may prove fatal. In some cases the patient is able voluntarily to fold the tongue back behind the soft palate. Macroglossia is the term applied to a variety of conditions in which the tongue becomes unduly large, so that it tends to be protruded from the mouth, and become scored by the teeth. The typical form—lympliangiomatous macroglossia—is due to a dilata- tion of the lymphatic spaces of the tongue. It is often congenital, and may affect the whole or only a part of the tongue. The enlargement may be progressive from the first, or may remain stationary for years, and then begin to develop somewhat suddenly, sometimes after an injury or as a result of some infective condition. The treatment consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue. In certain cases of macroglossia in children the lesion has been found to be a fibromatosis of the nerves of the tongue, allied to the plexiform neuroma. Atrophy of the tongue is rare as a congenital condition. Hemi-atrophy occurs in various diseases of the central nervousNERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 197 system, as well as after injuries and diseases implicating the hypoglossal nerve. Nervous Affections of the Tongue.—Neuralgia confined to the distribution of the lingual nerve is comparatively rare. It usually yields to medical treatment, but in inveterate cases it is sometimes necessary to resect the nerve. It is more common to meet with a condition in which the patient complains of severe burning or aching pain in the region of the foliate papilla, which is situated on the edge of the tongue just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. The patient is usually a middle-aged woman, decidedly neurotic, and often with a gouty or rheumatic tendency. The pain, for which it is seldom possible to discover any cause, is usually worst at night, and may last for months, or even years. The practical importance of the condition is that, as the foliate papilla is prominent and red, it is very liable to be mistaken on super- ficial examination for a commencing epithelioma. An inspection of the opposite side of the tongue, however, will reveal an exactly similar condition, which is not painful. The first and most important step in treatment is to assure the patient that the condition is not cancerous. Potassium bromide and anti-gouty and anti-rheumatic drugs may be prescribed, and if the pain is severe, cocain may be applied locally. Caustics and other irritating applications are to be avoided. Spasm of the tongue sometimes occurs after injuries of the head implicating the centre or trunk of the hypoglossal nerve. It may also appear as a reflex condition in inflammatory affections of the teeth and gums, or as a manifestation of some general disease of the central nervous system. Paralysis of the tongue—unilateral or bilateral—may be due to injury or disease of the nerve centres of the hypoglossal nerve, less frequently to injury or pressure on the nerve trunk. The nerve may be bruised or divided in operations for the removal of tuberculous glands or other tumours in the neck.198 CHAPTER XIII. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. Surgical anatomy — Injuries—Salivary fistul®—Salivary calculi — In- flammatory affections : Parotitis; Inflammation of submaxillary gland-; Angina Ludovici; Inflammation of sublingual gland; Tuberculous disease — Tumours : Ranula ; Mixed tumours of parotid; Sarcoma; Carcinoma; Tumours of submaxillary and sub- lingual glands. Surgical Anatomy. —-The parotid gland lies between two layers of fascia on the outer surface of the masseter muscle. It reaches up to the posterior part of the zygoma, and down to the level of the angle of the jaw. A prolongation of the gland usually passes deeply between the glenoid cavity and the mastoid process, and there is often a detached portion on the surface of the masseter—the soda parotidis. The deep surface of the gland lies in close relation with the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves. The external carotid artery passes through the substance of the parotid, and bifurcates opposite the neck of the condyle into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It is accompanied by the venous trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. The facial nerve and its branches traverse the lower third of the gland from behind forwards. The excretory duct—Stensons duct—emerges from the anterior border of the gland, and after crossing the masseter pierces the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second upper molar tooth. The course of the duct is indicated by a line passing from the upper part of the lobule of the ear to the ala of the nose—that is, at a higher level than the facial nerve. Several lymphatic glands lie inside the capsule of the parotid just in front of the ear. The submaxillary gland lies under the integument and fascia in the triangle formed by the lower jaw and the two bellies of the digastric muscle. Its anterior part is crossed by the facial vessels, and several lymphatic glands lie inside its capsule. The duct—Wharton’s duct— opens into the mouth by the side of the frenum of the tongue. The sublingual gland lies in the floor of the mouth just beneath the mucous membrane. It has numerous ducts, some of which open directly into the mouth, others into Wharton’s duct. Injuries.—The parotid is frequently injured by accidental199 SALIVARY FISTUL7R. wounds and in the course of operations. If the blood-vessels traversing the gland are divided, such wounds are liable to bleed freely, and if the facial and auriculo- temporal nerves are damaged, motor and sensory paralysis of the parts supplied by them ensues. Wounds of the parotid heal rapidly and without complications so long as septic infection is prevented, but if suppuration takes place, they are liable to be followed by the escape of saliva, which may go on for weeks or months. In some cases a persistent salivary fistula is thus established. Stenson’s duct may be divided and a salivary fistula result. If the external wound heals rapidly a salivary cyst may develop in the substance of the cheek. This forms a swelling, which fills up each time the patient takes food, and which may be emptied by external pressure, the saliva escaping into the mouth. In a wound implicating the whole thickness of the cheek the cutaneous surface should be accurately sutured, care being taken that the stitches do not include the duct, but the mucous surface should be left open in order that the saliva may readily reach the mouth. Salivary Fistulae.—A salivary fistula may occur in relation to the glandular substance of the parotid or in relation to Stenson’s duct. Fistulse in connection with the glandular substance—parotid Jistulce—seldom result from wounds, made, for example, in the removal of tumours or in operations on the ramus of the jaw, so long as they are aseptic, but as a sequel of suppuration in the gland, and particularly of abscesses which develop around concretions, they are not uncommon. The fistulous opening is usually small, and may occur at any point over the gland. The fistula may be dry between meals, or the saliva may escape in small transparent drops, but the quantity is always greatly increased when the patient takes food. Parotid fistulm, although they may continue to discharge for weeks, or even for months, usually close spontaneously. In persistent cases the edges of the fistula may be pared and brought together with sutures, or the actual cautery may be applied to induce cicatricial contraction. Fistula of Stenson’s duct is much more serious. It is usually due to a wound, less frequently to abscess or impacted calculus. The opening, which is most frequently situated over the buccinator muscle, is usually very minute and is surrounded by a mass of pouting granulations. There is an almost con- tinuous flow of clear limpid saliva, which is greatly increased in quantity while the patient is eating. These fistulse show little tendency to close spontaneously. Attempts to close the opening200 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. by the external application of collodion, by cauterising the edges, or even by paring the edges and introducing sutures, usually fail. It is necessary to establish an opening into the mouth, either by opening up the original duct or by making an internal fistula in place of the external one. Salivary Calculi.—Salivary calculi are most commonly met with in the submaxillary gland. They consist of phosphate and carbonate of lime with a small proportion of organic matter, and result from the chemical action of bacteria on the saliva. In rare cases a foreign body, such as a piece of straw, a fruit-seed, or a fish-bone, forms the nucleus of the concretion. They vary in size from a pea to a walnut, and are hard, of a whitish or grey colour, and rough on the surface. Those which form in the gland itself are usually irregular, while those met with in the duct are rounded or spindle-shaped. A calculus in the duct gives rise to sharp lancinating pain, which is aggravated when the patient takes food. The duct is seldom completely obstructed, but the flow of saliva is usually so much impeded that the gland becomes greatly swollen during meals. The swelling gradually subsides between times, or can be made to disappear by external pressure. The calculus can usually be felt by means of a probe passed along the duct, or by puncturing the swelling with a needle; or, with one finger inside the mouth and another under the jaw, a hard lump can be detected under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. When the obstruction is complete, a retention cyst forms in which suppuration is liable to occur, causing marked aggravation of the symptoms. In some cases the wall of the duct and the surrounding tissues become thickened and in- durated, forming a swelling which is liable to be mistaken for a malignant growth. The treatment consists in making an incision through the mucous membrane over the calculus and extracting it with a scoop or forceps. Inflammatory Affections.—Parotitis.—Inflammation of the parotid gland may be non-suppurative or suppurative. Of the non-suppurative varieties the most common is the epidemic form known as mumps. This is an acute infective condition, which usually attacks young children, and implicates both glands, either simultaneously or consecutively. It runs a definite course, which lasts for from one to two weeks and almost invariably ends in resolution. The parotid gland is swollen and tender, there is pain on attempting to open the mouth, difficulty in swallowing, and dribbling of saliva. The surgical interest of this disease lies in the fact that it is201 PAROTITIS. frequently complicated by pain and swelling of tlie testis, oedema of the scrotum, and occasionally by a urethral discharge, and atrophy of the testis has been observed after such an attack. In females there is sometimes pain in the region of the ovary, tenderness and swelling of the mamma, and a vaginal discharge. The parotid on one or on both sides may suddenly become swollen and tender in patients who are taking large doses of mercury, in gouty subjects, or in patients suffering from inflammatory conditions of the genito-urinary organs, such as orchitis, ovaritis, urethritis, or cystitis. The condition is usually transient and leads to no complications. The treatment of these non-suppurative forms of parotitis consists in relieving the symptoms. Suppurative parotitis may occur in the course of any disease in which there is an infection of the blood with pyogenic bacteria. It has been met with in diphtheria, typhoid fever, scarlet fever, measles, and other eruptive fevers, and it is com- paratively common after certain abdominal operations, such as those for suppurative appendicitis, perforated gastric ulcer, ovarian cyst, and pyosalpinx. It also occurs from infection spreading from the mouth along Stenson’s duct. In exceptional cases it is due to the direct spread of local conditions, such as arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint, periostitis of the jaw, or suppuration in a lymphatic gland. The early symptoms are apt to be overshadowed by those of the general disease from which the patient suffers. At first the gland is swollen, hard, and tender, and the seat of constant, dull, boring pain ; later there is redness, oedema, and fluctuation. The movements of the jaw are restricted and painful, the patient is unable to open the mouth, and has difficulty in swallowing. The inflammation reaches its height on the third or fourth day, and ends in suppuration. The pus is scattered in numerous foci throughout the gland, and sometimes large sloughs form. The dense capsule of the gland prevents the pus reaching the surface and causes it to burrow among the tissues of the neck, giving rise to dyspnoea and dysphagia. It may find its way downwards towards the mediastinum, inwards towards the pharynx—where it constitutes one form of retro- pharyngeal abscess,—or upwards towards the base of the skull. Not infrequently it burrows into the temporo-maxillary joint, or escapes by bursting into the external auditory meatus. Serious haemorrhage may result from erosion of the vessels traversing the gland or of the internal jugular vein, or venous202 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. thrombosis may ensue. Persistent paralysis may follow de- struction of the facial nerve; and salivary fistula.; may form. Death may take place from septic absorption even before pus forms. Treatment.—During the first two or three days hot fomenta- tions are applied, and the mouth is frequently washed out with an antiseptic. As soon as there is reason to believe that pus has formed it must be let out. An incision is made behind the angle of the jaw, parallel to the branches of the facial nerve, the abscess opened by Hilton’s method, a finger passed into the gland, and all septa broken down and drainage secured. Acute inflammation of the submaxillary gland is met with under the same conditions as that of the parotid. Both glands are occasionally attacked at the same time. An acute phlegmonous periadenitis sometimes occurs in the loose"Cellular tissue around the submaxillary gland, and spreads with great rapidity through the cellular planes of the neck. The condition—which goes by the name of angina Ludovici—is usually met with in adults, and appears to originate in some septic focus in the mouth. The onset is sudden and acute, and is marked by a rigor, with high temperature and a rapid, inter- mittent, and compressible pulse. The submaxillary region becomes densely infiltrated and brawny, and the swelling extends upwards towards the root of the tongue and downwards in the neck towards the mediastinum. The mouth is closed, the tongue fixed, and swallowing is impossible. The inflammatory swelling may spread to the air-passages and induce oedema of the glottis. Diffuse suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue usually occur, and may lead to general pyaemia. The treatment consists in making incisions through the deep fascia in order to relieve the tension, or to let out pus if it has formed. Acute suppurative inflammation of the sublingual gland may occur under the same conditions as in the parotid, and is associated with the formation of an exceedingly painful and tender swelling under the tongue. The tongue is gradually pushed against the roof of the mouth, so that swallowing is difficult and respiration may be seriously impeded. There is marked constitutional disturbance. An incision into the swell- ing is immediately followed by relief of the symptoms. Tuberculous disease of the salivary glands is rare. It usually begins in the lymphatic glands within the capsule of the parotid or submaxillary, and spreads thence to the salivary gland tissue.203 RANULA. Tumours.—Cystic Tumours—Ranula.—The term ranula is applied to any cystic tumour formed in connection with the glands in the floor of the mouth. Formerly these tumours were believed to be retention cysts due to blocking of the salivary ducts. They are now known to be the result of a cystic degeneration of one or other of the secreting glands in the floor of the mouth. They contain a thick glairy fluid, which differs from saliva in containing a considerable quantity of mucin and albumin, while it is free from any amylolytic ferment or sulpho- cyanide of potassium. Numerous degenerated epithelial cells are found in the fluid. The sublingual ranula is the most common variety. It appears as a painless, smooth, tense, globular swelling of a bluish colour. It usually lies on one side of the frenum, and over it the mucous membrane moves freely. As it increases in size it gradually pushes the tongue towards the roof of the mouth, and so causes interference with speech, mastication, and swallowing. It is differentiated from a retention cyst of the submaxillary gland by the fact that a probe can usually be passed along Wharton’s duct alongside of the swelling. The treatment consists in making an incision through the mucous membrane over the swelling, dissecting away the whole of the cyst wall if possible, and, if any portion cannot be removed, swabbing it with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce), after which the cavity is stuffed with iodoform gauze and allowed to close by granulation. It is sometimes found more satisfactory to dissect out the cyst through an incision below the jaw. Cystic tumours, similar to the sublingual ranula, form in the other glands in the floor of the mouth, for example, the incisive gland, which lies just behind the symphysis menti, as well as in Blandin’s gland on the under aspect of the tip of the tongue. The latter is distinguished by the fact that it moves with the- tongue. In rare cases children are born with a cystic swelling in the floor of the mouth—the so-called congenital ranula. It is usually due to an imperfect development of the duct of the submaxillary or sublingual gland. Solid Tumours—Mixed Tumours of the Parotid.—The most important of the solid tumours met with in the salivary glands is the so-called “ mixed tumour of the parotid,” which is an endothelioma derived from a proliferation of the endothelial cells luring the lymph spaces and blood-vessels of the gland. The matrix of the tumour is made up of cartilaginous, myxo- matous, sarcomatous, or angiomatous tissue, the proportion204 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. of these different elements varying in individual specimens, and it may include some portions that are adenomatous. A gelatinous substance forms in the intercellular spaces of the tumour, and may accumulate in sufficient quantity to give rise to cysts of various sizes. There is reason to believe that the tumours of the parotid previously described as adenoma, chon- droma, angioma, myxoma, and many of the cases of sarcoma, were really mixed tumours in which one or other of these tissues predominated. The tumour develops in the substance of the parotid, and in so doing becomes en- capsulated, and presses on the salivary tissue, thinning it out and caus- ing it to undergo atrophy. In the early stages the growth can be shelled out of the gland. Clinical Features.— The mixed tumour is usually first observed be- tween the ages of twenty and thirty. It is of slow growth and painless, and forms a rounded, nodular swelling, the consistence of which varies with its structure. The skin over the swelling is normal in appearance and is Fig. 65.—Mixed Tumour of the Parotid attached ^ to the of over twenty years’ duration. tumour (Fig. 65). Only in rare cases does para- lysis result from pressure on the facial nerve. Although usually benign, these tumours may, after lasting for years, take on malignant characters, growing rapidly, im- plicating adjacent lymphatic glands, and showing a marked tendency to recur after removal. The treatment consists in shelling the tumour out of the gland, care being taken to avoid injuring the facial nerve or Stenson’s duct by making the incision run parallel to them. If the tumour is removed early and completely recurrence is rare. Sarcomata and carcinomata of the parotid are rare. They205 TUMOURS. are very malignant, grow rapidly, infiltrate surrounding parts, including the skin, and infect the adjacent lymphatic glands. There is severe neuralgic pain, and paralysis from involve- ment of the facial nerve is an early symptom. Recurrence is very liable to occur after removal. The treatment consists in excising the whole of the parotid gland with the tumour, no attempt being made to conserve the facial nerve or other structures traversing the gland, and as it is not certain, even then, that all the outlying processes of the tumour are removed, the raw surface should be seared with the cautery or cauterised with arsenical paste. Recourse may be had to the use of the X-rays after operation. The submaxillary and sublingual glands may be the seat of the same varieties of tumour as the parotid. These glands are particularly liable to become invaded along with the adjacent lymphatic glands in cancer of the tongue.206 CHAPTER XIV. THE EAR. Surgical anatomy. Cardinal Symptoms of Ear Disease : Impair- ment of hearing ; Tinnitus aurium ; Earache ; Giddiness ; Discharge —Hearing tests — Inspection of ear — Inflation of middle ear. ■—Affections of External Ear: Deformities; Hcematoma auris; Epithelioma and rodent cancer ; Impaction of wax ; Eczema ; Boils ; Foreign bodies. Affections of Tympanic Membrane and Middle ' Ear : Rupture of membrane ; Acute inflammation of middle ear ; Chronic suppuration ; Suppuration in the mastoid antrum and cells. Surgical Anatomy.—The anatomical subdivision of the ear into three parts—the external, middle, and internal ear—forms a satisfactory basis for the study of ear lesions. The outer ear consists of the auricle and external auditory meatus, the latter being made up of an outer cartilagin- ous portion half an inch in length, and a deeper osseous portion three- quarters of an inch long. The canal forms a curved tube, which can be straightened to a considerable extent for purposes of examination by pulling the auricle upwards and backwards. It is closed internally by the tympanic membrane, which separates it from the tympanic cavity or middle ear. The middle ear includes the tympanum proper, which is crossed by the chain of ossicles—malleus, incus, and stapes — the Eustachian tube, which communicates with the naso-pharynx, and the mastoid antrum and cells. As these cavities lie in close relation to the floor of the middle cranial fossa, inflammatory conditions in the tympanum and mastoid cells are liable to spread to the interior of the skull. The internal ear or labyrinth lies in the petrous part of the temporal bone, its outer boundary being the inner wall of the middle ear. Physiologically the different parts of the auditory mechanism may be divided into (1) the sound-conducting apparatus, which includes the outer and middle ears ; and (2) the sound-perceiving apparatus—the internal ear and central nerve tracts. Impairment of hearing may be due to causes existing in one or other or both of these subdivisions. The condition of the sound-conducting apparatus can be investigated by direct inspection through the speculum, and by inflation of the Eustachian tube and tympanum, while that of the sound-perceiving apparatus is ascer- tained partly by testing the hearing, and partly by excluding affections of the outer and middle ear. When the sound-conducting apparatus is at fault, the resulting deafness is spoken of as “ obstructive ” ; when the sound-perceiving apparatus is affected, the term t: nerve deafness” is used.207 SYMPTOMS OF EAR DISEASE. Cardinal Symptoms of Ear Disease.—The most important symptom of ear disease is impairment of hearing, which varies in degree, and may be due to lesions either in the sound- conducting or in the sound-perceiving apparatus. The sudden onset of deafness may be due to impaction of wax in the external meatus or to haemorrhage or effusion into the labyrinth. A gradual onset is more common. In children there is a great tendency for acute inflammatory conditions of the middle ear to arise in connection with the exanthemata and in association with adenoids. In adult life chronic catarrhal processes are more common causes of gradually increasing deafness, while in advanced age there is a tendency to auditory nerve impairment. Certain anomalous conditions of hearing are occasionally met with, such as the “ paracusis of Willis ”—a condition in which the patient hears better in a noise; “ diplacusis,” or double hearing; and “ hyperaesthesia acustica,” or painful impressions of sound. Tinnitus aurium, or subjective noises in the ear, may con- stitute a very annoying and persistent symptom. These sounds vary markedly in their character, and may be described by the patient as ringing, hissing, or singing, or may be compared to the sound of running water or of a train. They are usually com- pared to some sound which, from his occupation or otherwise, the patient is accustomed to hear. They may be purely aural in origin, being due, for example, to increased pressure on the auditory nerve endings from causes in the labyrinth itself or in the middle or external ear; or they may be due to certain reflex causes, such as naso-pharyngeal catarrh or gastric irritation. Vascular changes such as occur in anaemia, Bright’s disease, and heart disease may also be concerned in their production. Pain, or earache, varies in degree from a mere sense of dis- comfort to acute agony. The pain associated with a boil in the external meatus is usually aggravated by movements of the jaw, by pulling the auricle, and by pressure upon the tragus. The pain of acute middle-ear inflammation is deep-seated, intermittent in character, and worse at night, and is aggravated by blowing the nose, coughing, and sneezing—acts which increase middle- ear tension through forcing air along the Eustachian tube. Mastoid pain and tenderness are indicative of inflammation in the antrum or cells, and when these symptoms supervene in the course of a chronic middle-ear suppuration, they should always be regarded as of grave import. Severe neuralgia of the ear may simulate the pain of acute mastoiditis, and it must not be forgotten that earache may be traced to a diseased tooth.208 THE EAR. A careful examination, not only of the ear, but also of the throat and teeth, should therefore be made in all cases of earache. Vertigo, or giddiness, may be produced by causes which alter the tension of the labyrinthine fluid, such, for example, as the pressure of wax upon the tympanic membrane, or exudation into the middle ear or into the labyrinth. Giddiness occurring in the course of chronic middle-ear suppuration may be significant of labyrinthine or intra-cranial mischief, but is not necessarily so. Giddiness preceded by nausea suggests a gastric origin; if followed by nausea it points to an aural origin. Discharge from the ear, or otorrhoea, is occasionally due to an eczematous condition of the skin lining the external meatus. It is then usually of a thin, watery character, and contains epi- thelial flakes and debris. An aural discharge is, however, most commonly of middle-ear origin. It may be muco-purulent and stringy, or purulent and of thicker consistence. A peculiar, offensive odour is characteristic of chronic middle-ear suppura- tion. The surgeon should smell the speculum in suspicious cases. He should never accept the patient’s statement as regards the absence of discharge, but should satisfy himself by inspection and by the introduction of a cotton-wool wick. The Hearing Tests.—In testing the hearing a definite routine method should be adopted, the watch, whisper, voice, and tuning-fork tests being systematically employed. Although the patient only complains of one ear, both must be examined. Each ear should be tested separately, and the patient should be so placed that he cannot see the lips of the examiner. While one ear is being tested, the other should be carefully closed with the finger. Each test should be commenced outside the probable normal range of hearing. All the results should be written down at once, and the date of the test recorded, as this is essential for following the progress of the case. Tuning -fork Tests. — In order to differentiate between deafness due to a lesion in the sound-conducting apparatus and that due to labyrinthine causes, it is necessary to enter into a little more detail. The vibrations of a tuning-fork are conducted to the nerve terminations in the labyrinth both through the air column in the external meatus (air-conduction), and through the cranial bones (bone-conduction). When in a deaf ear the vibrations of a tuning-fork placed in contact with the mastoid process are heard better than when the fork is held opposite the meatus, the lesion is in the sound-conducting apparatus. When, on the other hand, the vibrations are heard better by air- conduction, the lesion is in the sound-perceiving apparatus. InINSPECTION OF THE EAR. 209 addition to these facts we find also that in obstructive deafness low tones tend to be lost first, while in nerve deafness the higher notes are the first to go. This may be investigated by tuning-forks of different pitch or with the aid of a Galton’s whistle. Again, in middle-ear deafness, hearing may be better in a noisy place, and may be improved by inflation of the tympanum; while in labyrinthine deafness, hearing may be better in a quiet room, and may be rendered worse by inflation. Inspection of the Ear.—This should be carried out by the aid of reflected light, the ear to be examined being turned away from the window, lamp, or other source of light that may be employed. A small ear reflector, either held in the hand or attached to a forehead band, and a set of aural specula are required. Before introducing the speculum, the outer ear and adjacent parts should be examined, and the presence of redness, swelling, sinuses or cicatrices over the mastoid, displacement of the auricle, or any inflammatory condition of the outer ear observed. To inspect the tympanic membrane, a medium-sized speculum held between the thumb and index finger is insinuated into the cartilaginous meatus, the auricle being at the same time pulled upwards and backwards by the middle and ring fingers, so as to straighten the canal. The tympanic membrane is then sought for and its appearance noted. The normal membrane is concave as a whole on its meatal aspect; it occupies a doubly oblique plane, being so placed that its superior and posterior parts are nearer the eye of the examiner than the anterior and inferior parts. While varying to some extent in colour, polish and transparency, it presents a bluish-grey appearance. The handle of the malleus traverses the membrane as a whitish-yellow ridge, which passes from its upper and anterior part downwards and backwards to a point a little below the centre. At the lower end of the handle of the malleus a bright triangular cone of light passes downwards and forwards to the periphery of the membrane. At the upper end of the handle is a white knob-like projection, the short process of the malleus. Passing forwards and backwards from this are the anterior and posterior folds. The portion of the membrane situated above the short process is known as Shrapnell’s membrane. Behind the malleus the long process of the incus may be visible through the membrane. The mobility of the membrana tympani should be tested by inflating the tympanum or by the use of Siegle’s pneumatic speculum. Various departures from the normal may be observed. Atrophy of the membrane is characterised by extreme trans- VOL. II—14THE EAR 210 parency of the whole disc. Circumscribed atrophic patches appear as dark transparent areas, which show considerable mobility and bulge prominently on inflation. A cicatrix in the membrane is evidence of a healed perforation, and is also trans- parent, but differs from an atrophic patch in being more sharply defined from the surrounding membrane. A thickened membrane presents an opaque white appearance. Calcareous or chalky patches are markedly white, and when probed are hard to the touch; they are often evidence of past suppuration. An indrawn or retracted membrane, resulting from Eustachian obstruction, is characterised by increased concavity, undue prominence of the short process of the malleus and of the anterior and posterior folds, and by the handle of the malleus assuming a more horizontal position. An inflamed membrane, showing congestion of the vessels about the malleus, or a general diffuse redness is evidence of middle - ear inflamma- tion. A yellow appearance of the lower part of the membrane, limited above by a dark line stretching across the drum-head, is indicative of sero-purulent exudation into the tympanum. The membrane may be bulged outwards into the meatus by the fluid, and thus lie nearer the observer’s eye than normal. A perforation is usually single, and varies in size from a small pin- head to complete destruction of the membrane. The inner wall of the tympanum may be visible through the perforation, and is recognised by being on a deeper plane than the membrane, and by its hard bony -consistence when touched with the probe. The diagnosis of a perforation associated with middle - ear discharge may be further assisted by inspection during inflation, when bubbles of air and secretion are visible. When the perforation is invisible, its existence may be inferred if a small pulsating spot of light can be recognised through the speculum. Granulations in the tympanum appear as red fleshy masses of different sizes. When large they constitute aural polypi, which are recognised by their proximity to the outer end of the meatus, their soft consistence and mobility, and the fact that the probe may be passed round them. Granulations and polypi always indicate the presence of middle-ear suppuration. Inflation of the Middle Ear.—Before proceeding to inflate the middle ear the examiner should carefully inspect the nose, naso-pharynx and pharynx. This should be made a routine part of the examination in all cases of ear disease. As inflation is not only an aid in diagnosis, but is also of great assistance in prognosis, it is very necessary that the hearing should be tested and noted before the ear is inflated. There areINFLATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 211 three methods of inflating the tympanum : Valsalva’s method, Politzer’s method, and by means of the Eustachian catheter. In Valsalva’s inflation the patient himself forces air into his Eustachian tubes by holding his nose, closing his mouth, and forcibly expiring. This method of inflation has only a limited application and is of very little therapeutic value. Politzer’s Method. — For this a Politzer’s air-bag and an auscultating tube, one end of which is inserted into the patient’s ear and the other into the ear of the examiner, are required. The nasal end of the bag should be protected with a piece of rubber tubing or be provided with a nozzle. The patient retains a small quantity of water in his mouth until directed to swallow. The nozzle of the bag is inserted into one nostril, while the other is occluded by the lingers of the surgeon. The signal to swallow is then given, and, simultaneously with the movement of the larynx during this act, the bag is sharply and forcibly compressed. Holt’s modification of this method consists in directing the patient to puff out his cheeks while the lips are kept firmly closed. Inflation through the Eustachian Catheter.—For this method, in addition to the Politzer’s bag and the auscultating tube, a silver or vulcanite Eustachian catheter is required. The silver instrument has the advantage that it can be sterilised by boiling. The patient is seated facing the light, while the surgeon stands in front of him, and having placed the auscultating tube in position, with his left thumb he tilts up the' tip of the patient’s nose. The beak of the catheter is now inserted into the inferior meatus, point downwards, and carried horizontally backwards along the floor of the nose until the convexity of the curve touches the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx. When the posterior pharyngeal wall is felt, the point of the instrument is rotated inwards through a quarter of a circle; the position of the point is indicated by the metal ring upon the outer end of the catheter. The finger and thumb of the left hand should now grasp the stem of the catheter just beyond the tip of the nose so as to steady it. It is now gently withdrawn until the concavity of the beak is brought against the posterior edge of the septum nasi. With the right hand the point of the instrument is then rotated downwards and outwards through a little more than half a circle, so that the point slips into the Eustachian orifice and the metal ring looks outwards and upwards towards the external canthus of the eye of the same side. While the instrument is maintained in this position by the left hand, the nozzle of the Politzer’s bag is inserted into the funnel-shapedTHE EAR. 212 outer extremity of the catheter, and inflation is gently carried out with the least possible jerking. Before withdrawing the catheter its point must be disengaged from the Eustachian opening by turning it slightly downwards. Difficulties in introducing the catheter may arise from the presence of spines and ridges upon, and deviations of, the septum, and it may be necessary to pass the instrument under the guidance of the mirror and speculum. More accurate information is gained from the use of the catheter than from Politzer’s inflation, and it is the safer method to employ when a cicatrix or atrophied patch exists in the tympanic membrane, as by the latter method rupture of these areas might occur. Further, the catheter has the advantage of only inflating one ear, and thus preventing any undue strain being put upon the other. In children the catheter can seldom be employed, on account of the difficulty in passing it. Considerable information may be derived from inflation. If the Eustachian tube is patent, a full clear sound is heard close to the examiner’s ear through the auscultating tube. If the Eustachian tube is obstructed, the sound is fainter and more distant. If there is fluid in the tympanum, a fine moist sound may be detected, which must not be confounded with the coarser and more distant gurgling sound associated with moisture at the pharyngeal opening of the tube. If a small dry perforation exists in the tympanic membrane, the air may be heard whistling through it, while if the perforation is large, a sensation which is almost painful may be produced in the examiner’s ear. If there is fluid associated with the perforation, these sounds may be accompanied by a bubbling noise. The effect of inflation upon the hearing must be carefully tested and recorded. Affections of the External Ear. Deformities of the Ear.—The auricle, together with the external auditory meatus, may be congenitally absent on one or on both sides. The condition is not amenable to surgical treatment. Double auricles are occasionally met with; more frequently rudimentary auricular appendages about the size of a pea, consisting of skin, subcutaneous connective tissue and nodules of cartilage, occur in front of the tragus, on the lobule, or in the neck. These appendages should be snipped off with scissors. These congenital deformities are due to errors in development of the mandibular arch, and are frequently associ-AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 213 ated with macrostoma, facial clefts, and other malformations of the face. Outstanding ears may be treated by excising a triangular or elliptical portion of skin and cartilage from the posterior surface of the pinna and uniting the cut edges with sutures. Abnor- mally large ears may be diminished in size by the removal of a V-shaped portion from the upper part of the auricle. The term hcematoma auris is applied to a sub-perichondrial effusion of blood, which may occur either as the result of injury to the auricle, for example, in football players, or as a result of trophic changes in the cartilage and perichondrium. The latter form is not uncommon among the insane. A more or less tense fluctuating swelling forms on the anterior surface of the auricle, presenting in some cases a distinctly bluish coloration. In- flammation may ensue, and in some cases suppuration and even necrosis of cartilage may follow. The treatment in a recent case consists in applying cold or elastic compression with cotton-wool and a bandage, or in with- drawing the effused blood by means of an aspirator. In the event of suppuration supervening, incision and drainage must be carried out. Epithelioma may occur on the auricle and extend along the external auditory meatus. It begins as a small abrasion, and is attended with a constant foetid discharge and intense pain. The disease may spread to the middle ear and invade the temporal bone, and facial paralysis then ensues. The adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected. The treatment consists in removing the growth freely and in excising the associated lymphatic glands, in the early stage of the disease. In inoper- able cases the X-rays may be employed. Rodent cancer also may attack the outer ear. Impaction of Wax or Cerumen.—Hypersecretion may result from unknown causes, or it may accompany or be induced by the discharge from a chronic middle-ear suppuration. The association of these two conditions should be borne in mind. An accumula- tion of wax may be caused by the too zealous attempts of the patient to keep the ear clean, the wax being forced into the narrow deeper part of the meatus. The chief symptom of impacted wax is deafness, which is often of sudden onset. Impaction of wax causes deafness only when the lumen of the auditory canal becomes completely occluded by the plug. Tinnitus aurium and vertigo are sometimes present, and may be very troublesome if the wax rests upon the tympanic membrane. Pain is occasionally complained of, and is usuallyTHE EAR. 214 due to the pressure of the plug upon an inflamed area of skin. Certain reflex symptoms, such as coughing and sneezing, have been met with. It is only by an objective examination of the ear that the diagnosis can be made. The plug varies in colour and consist- ence, and may be yellow, brown, or black in appearance. Sometimes from the admixture of a quantity of epithelium it is almost white in colour. Treatment. — The ear should be syringed with a warm antiseptic or sterilised solution. The lotion is at a suitable temperature for the patient if the finger can be comfortably held in it. The ear should be turned to the light, a towel placed over the patient’s dress, and a kidney basin held under the auricle and close to the cheek. A syringe provided with metal rings for the fingers and armed with a fine ear nozzle should be held with the point inserted just within the aperture of the external meatus and in contact with the roof of the canal. Care must be taken that all the air is first removed from the syringe. To straighten the canal the pinna should be pulled upwards and backwards by the left hand. It may be necessary to exert some considerable degree of force before the plug becomes dislodged, but this must be done with caution. The ear should then be dried out with cotton-wool, and a small plug of wool inserted for a few hours. If pain is complained of, or if the wax is hard and cannot be readily removed, the syringing should be stopped and means taken to soften it by the instilla- tion of a few drops of a solution of bicarbonate of soda (10 grains to the ounce of water or glycerine), or of peroxide of hydrogen several times daily. Eczema of the external meatus is often associated with eczema of the auricle and of the surrounding parts. Not infrequently there also exists a chronic middle-ear suppuration, which may be the cause of the eczema. Intense itchiness is the most characteristic symptom, and a watery discharge may also be complained of. Deafness and tinnitus are dependent upon the accumulation of epithelium and debris. After the ear is syringed the skin may present a dry scaly appearance, while sometimes fissures and an indurated condition of the outer end of the meatus may be noted. Rarely is the outer surface of the tympanic membrane itself involved. Treatment consists in keeping the ear clean by syringing and careful drying. Probably the best local application is nitrate of silver (10 grains to the ounce of spiritus setheris nitrosi). This is applied by means of a grooved probe dressed with a smallAFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 215 piece of cotton-wool. Care should be taken that none of the fluid is allowed to escape upon the cheek, otherwise staining of the skin occurs. A plug of cotton-wool is inserted, and the solution is re-applied at the end of a week. Sometimes the condition is very intractable. Occasionally the vegetable parasite aspergillus is present in the external meatus, and produces a condition that is very liable to be mistaken for eczema. Strong antiseptic lotions are required to kill the fungus. Furunculosis or Boils.—Boils in the ear may arise singly or in crops, and may be associated with eczema of the meatus or with chronic suppuration of the middle ear. Pain is the chief symptom complained of, and it may be very acute. Deafness ensues when the meatus becomes completely blocked by the swelling. The boil occurs in the cartilaginous meatus, and it is to be borne in mind that the skin may present a normal appearance although suppuration has already occurred within it. Palpation of the affected area with the probe causes intense pain. Sometimes oedema over the mastoid with dis- placement forwards of the pinna supervenes, and simulates acute inflammation of the mastoid. Treatment.—If seen in the earliest stages, an attempt may be made to relieve the pain by the application of a 20 per cent, menthol and parolein solution, or by the use of carbolic acid and cocain (5 grains of each) to a dram of glycerine. When suppuration has occurred the best line of treatment is by early incision, transfixing the base of the swelling with a narrow knife and cutting into the meatus. Foreign Bodies.—It is unnecessary to enumerate all the varieties of foreign bodies that may be met with in the ear. They may be conveniently classified into the animate—for example, maggots, larvae and insects, and the inanimate—for example, beads, buttons and peas. Pain, deafness, tinnitus and giddiness may be produced, and such reflex symptoms as coughing and vomiting have resulted. The main practical point consists in identifying the body by inspection. The mere history of its introduction should not be taken as proof of its presence. In children it is advisable to give chloroform so that a thorough examination may be made with the aid of good illumination. If previous attempts to remove the body have caused inflammation of the meatal walls, and if the symptoms are not urgent, no further attempt should be made until the inflammation has been allayed by syringing with warm boracic, and by applying one or more leeches to theTHE EAR, 21G tragus. An attempt should always be made in the first instance to remove the body by syringing. If this fails, a small hook should be used, sharp or blunt according to the consistence of the body. Maggots, larvae and insects should first be killed by instillations of alcohol and then syringed out. Tympanic Membrane and Middle Ear—Traumatic Rupture of the Tympanic Membrane.—Perforating wounds may result from direct violence caused by the patient—for example, in attempts to remove wax or foreign bodies, or by clumsiness on the part of the surgeon. It is also a comparatively common complication of fracture of the middle fossa of the base of the skull. More commonly, perhaps, the membrane is ruptured from indirect violence due to great condensation of the air in the external auditory meatus, following blows upon the ear, heavy artillery reports, or diving from a height. The injury is followed by pain in the ear, often by considerable deafness and tinnitus, and bleeding is frequently observed. If early examina- tion of the ear is made, coagulated blood may be found in the meatus or upon the membrane, or ecchymosis may be visible on the latter. A rupture in the membrane following indirect violence is usually lozenge-shaped. During inflation by Valsalva’s method the air may be heard to whistle through the perforation. In all such injuries the hearing should be carefully tested, and the possibility of an injury to the labyrinth investigated by means of the tuning-fork tests. Prognosis as regards hearing should be guarded at first. As a rule the rupture heals rapidly, and no treatment is necessary save the introduction of a piece of cotton-wool into the meatus. Syringing should be avoided unless suppuration has already occurred, in which case treatment for this condition must be adopted. As these injuries frequently have a medico-legal bearing, careful notes should be made. Acute Inflammation of the Middle Ear.—This usually arises in connection with septic conditions of the throat and naso- pharynx. It varies considerably in its severity, and may run a mild or a severe course. It is characterised by pain in the ear, deafness, and a certain degree of fever. In children the symptoms may simulate those of meningitis. In the majority of cases it is associated with mastoiditis. When the tympanic membrane is examined in the mild forms of the affection or in the early stages of the more severe type, the vessels about the handle of the malleus and periphery of the membrane are injected, and possibly a number of injected vessels may be seen coursing across the surface of the membrane. In the later stages the whole membrane presents a red surface, the anatomical land-217 MIDDLE-EAR SUPPURATION. marks being indistinguishable, the membrane bulges outwards into the meatus, and, if an abscess is pointing, a yellowish area may be visible upon it. The sudden cessation of pain and the appearance of a discharge from the meatus indicate perforation of the membrana tympani. The treatment of acute otitis media varies with the severity of the attack. The patient should be confined to the house or to bed, alcohol and tobacco should be forbidden, and the bowels must be freely opened. Pain may be allayed by repeated in- stillations of cocain and carbolic acid (5 grains of each to a dram of glycerine). A few drops of laudanum, hot boracic instillations, or the application of a dry hot sponge, may prove soothing. Two or three leeches may be applied over the mastoid, but should the pain persist or should rupture of the membrane appear imminent, paracentesis must be carried out. After spon- taneous perforation or puncture, the meatus must be kept clean. It is probably safer not to inflate through the Eustachian tube in the acute stage. Attention must be paid to any affection of the nose or throat that may be present. Chronic Suppuration in the Middle Ear.—Acute suppuration may pass into the chronic variety, which is characterised by a perforation of the tympanic membrane, a persistent purulent or muco-purulent discharge from the middle ear, and a certain amount of deafness. Various complications may arise in the course of chronic middle-ear disease, and so long as a person is the subject of a chronic otorrhcea, he is liable to one or more of these. The complications may be extra-cranial or intra-cranial. Those affecting the middle ear itself include granulations, polypi, cholesteatoma, caries and necrosis of the temporal bone, de- struction and loss of one or more of the ossicles, facial paralysis, haemorrhage from the carotid artery or jugular vein, and malignant disease. As mastoid complications, may be mentioned inflammation and suppuration, leading to destruction of the bone, mastoid fistula, and sub-periosteal mastoid abscess. The intra-cranial complications that may arise are: extra-dural abscess, sub-dural abscess, meningitis, cerebral and cerebellar abscess, and lateral sinus phlebitis with general septicaemia and pyaemia. The treatment of chronic middle-ear suppuration consists in keeping the parts clean by syringing with antiseptic lotions. The instillation of hydrogen peroxide, followed by syringing with boiled water or boracic lotion, and inflation through the Eustachian tube once, twice, or thrice daily, according to the218 THE EAR, requirements of the case, constitute a routine method. Packing the meatus with antiseptic gauze after washing out may be practised. Suppuration in the Mastoid Antrum and Cells, or Acute Suppurative Mastoiditis.—Acute suppuration may occur in the mastoid antrum in the course of an attack of acute otitis media, or as a result of interference with drainage in chronic suppura- tion of the antrum or middle ear. As the outer wall of the mastoid is liable to be perforated by cario-necrosis, the pus may find its way externally and form an abscess over the mastoid process behind the ear. In some cases the pus escapes into the external auditory meatus by perforating its posterior wall; in others a sinus forms on the inner side of the apex of the mastoid and the pus bur- rows in the digastric fossa under the sterno-mastoid— Bezold’s mastoiditis. If the posterior wall or roof of the antrum is destroyed, intra- cranial complications are liable to ensue. The clinical features are pain behind the ear, tender- ness on pressure or percus- sion over the mastoid. oedema of temporal region and face, dis- placing the auricle and closing the eye. Fig. 66.—Acute Suppurative Mastoiditis, There is usually redness with sub-periosteal abscess and great an(J oedematous swelling of the skin, and, when pus forms under the periosteum, the oedema may be so great as to displace the auricle downwards and forwards (Fig. 66). The deeper part of the posterior osseous wall of the meatus may be swollen so that it conceals the upper and back part of the membrane. Treatment.—When arising in connection with acute otitis, the application of several leeches behind the ear, free incision of the membrane, and syringing with hot boracic lotion may be sufficient. As a rule, however, it is necessary to expose the interior of the antrum by opening through the mastoid cells —Schwartze’s operation. In operating for the relief of symptoms in acute cases it isMASTOID DISEASE. 219 only necessary to open up the mastoid antrum and all the cells, and to establish satisfactory drainage by this route. The middle ear and its contents must not be touched, lest the function of the organ be interfered with. A curved incision is made over the mastoid about a quarter of an inch behind, and parallel with, the attachment of the auricle. The periosteum is detached and the auricle turned forward until the posterior and superior walls of the osseous meatus are exposed. If a sinus is found, it should be enlarged by means of a gouge, as it almost certainly communicates with the antrum. If there is no sinus, the gouge should be applied in the suprameatal triangle (Fig. 6), which is bounded above by the posterior root of the zygoma, below by the upper and posterior segment of the bony external meatus, and behind by an imaginary line joining these (Macewen). The instrument should be directed forwards and inwards to avoid injuring the sigmoid sinus. If the opening be carried too high, the middle fossa of the skull may be opened. The antrum and cells having been freely opened up, the cavity is irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze, which is renewed daily till the discharge ceases and the cavity is filled in by granulation. When mastoid suppuration is associated with chronic middle- ear disease, it is usually necessary to perform the complete radical operation—Stacke-Schivartze operation—which consists in throwing the antrum, attic, and middle ear into one cavity. After the mastoid antrum and cells have been fully opened up, the soft parts lining the meatus are detached from the upj^er and back part of the canal. The Stacke protector or a bent probe is then passed from behind forwards through the aditus, and the posterior wall of the osseous meatus, along with the bridge of bone forming the inner end of this wall, is removed with the chisel. At this stage of the operation care should be taken to avoid injuring the facial nerve, and the anaesthetist should be directed carefully to watch the patient’s face and observe whether any twitching occurs. The outer wall of the attic, that is, the inner end of the superior wall of the osseous meatus, should next be removed. The operation is then completed by removing the malleus and incus, if they are still present, the remains of the tympanic membrane, and all granulation tissue. The large cavity thus made in the bone is rendered as smooth as possible, the burr or chisel being applied to all ridges or overhanging edges. The cartilaginous meatus is enlarged by carrying two parallel, horizontal incisions through the soft parts previously detached from the posterior meatal wall. The flap thus formedTHE EAR. 220 may be pushed backwards by the gauze or worsted packing that is introduced into the mastoid cavity through the meatus. The posterior skin wound is completely sutured, and the after- dressing is carried on through the meatus. Healing of the mastoid cavity may be hastened by the application of skin grafts, as recommended by Ballance, when granulations have formed.221 CHAPTER XV. THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. Fractures of nasal bones—Deformities of nose : Saddle nose; Partial and complete destruction of nose; Restoration of nose ; Rhinophyma— Intra - nasal affections — Examination of the nasal cavities : Anterior rhinoscopy; Posterior rhinoscopy; Digital examination. Cardinal Symptoms of Nasal Affections : Nasal obstruction : Erectile swelling of inferior turbinals ; Nasal polypi; Malignant tumours; Deviations, spines, and ridges of septum ; Hocmatoma of Septum—Nasal discharge: Foreign bodies; Rhinoliths; Ozccna ; Epistaxis ; Suppuration in accessory sinuses—Anomalies of smell and taste : Anosmia ; Parosmia—Reflex symptoms of nasal origin— Post-nasal obstruction : Adenoids—Tumours of naso-pharynx. Fracture of the Nasal Bones and Displacement of the Cartilages.—These injuries are always the result of direct violence, such as a blow or a fall against a projecting object. They are more common in adults than in children, and in spite of the fact that the fracture is usually compound, through tear- ing of the mucous membrane, septic complications are rare. The fracture usually runs transversely across both nasal bones near their lower edge, but sometimes it is comminuted and involves also the nasal processes of the superior maxillae. In nearly all cases the cartilage of the septum is bent or displaced so that it bulges into one or other nostril, and not infrequently a haematoma forms in the septum. Sometimes the vertical plate of the ethmoid is implicated, and the fracture in this way comes to involve the base of the skull. The nasal ducts may be injured and the flow of the tears obstructed. This may eventually result in the formation of a lachrymal abscess and fistula. The clinical features are pain, bleeding from the nose, dis- coloration, and swelling. Crepitus can usually be elicited on pressing over the nasal bones. The deformity sometimes consists in a lateral deviation of the nose, but more frequently in flattening of the bridge—traumatic saddle nose. Within a fewTHE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 222 hours of the injury the swelling is often so great as to obscure the nature of the deformity and to render the diagnosis difficult. Subcutaneous emphysema is not a common symptom ; when it occurs, it is usually due to the patient forcing air into the con- nective tissue while blowing his nose. The lateral cartilages may be separated from the nasal bones and give rise to clinical appearances which simulate those of fracture. Sometimes the septum is displaced laterally without the bone being broken, and this causes symptoms of nasal obstruction. Treatment.—As the bones unite rapidly it is of great import- ance that any displacement should be reduced without delay, and to facilitate this a general anaesthetic should be administered, or the nasal cavity sprayed with cocain. The bones can usually be levered into position with the aid of a pair of dressing forceps passed into the nostrils, the blades being protected with rubber tubing. After the fragments have been replaced and moulded into position, it is seldom necessary to employ any retaining apparatus, but the patient must be warned against blowing or otherwise handling his nose. When the septum is damaged and the bridge of the nose tends to fall in, rubber tubes may be placed in the nostrils to give support, or, if this is not sufficient, a soft lead or gutta-percha splint should be moulded over the nose, and the splint and the fragments transfixed with one or more hare-lip pins. These may be removed on the fourth or fifth day. Appliances introduced into the nose—such as gauze pads, rigid tubes or hollow plugs—are only indicated when the septum is so severely injured that the nose collapses. They are to be avoided if possible, as they are uncomfortable and interfere with proper cleansing and drainage of the nose. The inside of the nose should be smeared with vaseline to prevent crusting of blood, and the nasal cavities should be frequently irrigated. Deformities of the Nose.—The most common deformity is that known as the sunken-bridge or saddle nose. It is most frequently a result of inherited syphilis, the nasal bones being imperfectly developed, and the cartilages sinking in so that the tip of the nose is turned up and the nostrils look directly forward. The bridge of the nose may sink in also as a result of necrosis of the nasal bones, particularly in tertiary syphilis, and less trequently from tuberculous disease. A similar, but as a rule less marked, deformity may result from fracture of the nasal bones or from displacement of the cartilages. When the condition is due to mal-union of a fracture, the contour of the nose may be restored by operation. A narrow knife is passed in at the nostril and the skin freely separatedDEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. 223 from the bone ; the bone is then broken into several pieces with necrosis forceps, and the fragments moulded into shape. A rubber drainage tube introduced into each nostril maintains the contour of the nose till union has taken place. When it results from disease, it is much less amenable to treatment. The most satisfactory results hitherto have been obtained by the injection of paraffin. The paraffin, with a melting-point of about 110° F., is slowly injected into the subcutaneous tissue, and while still fluid is moulded to the shape of the nose, care being taken to prevent it passing into the eyelids or on to the cheek. The introduction into the tissues of solid paraffin has proved successful. An artificial bridge has been made by turning down from the forehead a flap, including the periosteum and a shaving of the outer table of the skull. In other cases portions of bone or plates of gold, alu- minium or celluloid have been implanted. Portions of the aim nasi may be lost from injury, or from ulceration such as lupus, syphilis or rodent cancer. After the destructive process has been arrested, the gap may be filled in by a flap taken from the cheek or adjacent part of the nose. When the tip of the nose is lost, it may be replaced by Syme’s operation, which consists in raising flaps from the cheeks and bringing them together in the middle line. The whole of the nose, including the cartilages and bones, may be destroyed by syphilitic ulceration or by lupus. In some parts of India the nose is sometimes cut off maliciously or as a punishment for certain crimes. Numerous operations have been devised for the restoration of the nose, but on account of the tendency of the transplanted tissues to contract and shrivel up, the results are not always satisfactory. In the “ Indian operation ” a racket-shaped flap, including skin and periosteum, is turned down from the fore- head and fixed by sutures to the edges of the gap, which have been previously rawed. Rubber tubes are introduced into the nostrils to support the flap and to enable the patient to breathe through the nose. Plates of bone have been implanted to support the skin flaps and to prevent subsequent contraction. The “ Italian or Tagliacotian operation,” in which a pedicled flap is cut from the front of the forearm and fixed to the nose, has been almost entirely abandoned. When the deformity cannot be corrected by operation, the appearance of the patient may be greatly improved by his wearing an artificial nose held in posi- tion by spectacles. The term Rhinophyma has been applied by Hebra to a224 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. condition in which the skin of the tip and alse of the nose becomes thick and coarse, and presents large, irregular, tuberous masses on which the orifices of the sebaceous follicles are unduly evident—potato or hammer nose. The capillaries of the skin are dilated and tortuous, and the nose assumes a bluish-red colour, and its surface is soft and greasy. The condition is met with in elderly men, and the masses appear to be chiefly com- posed of sebaceous adenomata. The term lipoma nasi, formerly employed, is therefore misleading. Fig. 67.—Rhinophyma or Lipoma Nasi in man aged 65. The treatment consists in paring away the protuberant masses until the normal size and contour of the nose are re- stored, care being taken not to encroach on the cartilages or on the orifices of the nostrils. There is comparatively little bleeding and the raw surface rapidly becomes covered by epidermis. Examination of the Nasal Cavities.—For the examination of the interior of the nose the following appliances are necessary : A reflector, such as is used in laryngoscopy, attached to a forehead band or spec- tacle frame ; one of the various forms of nasal speculum ; a long, pliable probe ; a tongue depressor ; and a small-sized mirror. As additional aids, a 10 per cent, solution of cocain, a grooved probe as a cotton-wool holder,EXAMINATION OF NASAL CAVITIES 225 and a palate retractor should be in readiness. Good illumination is important, and may be obtained from an electric light, or from a Wels- bach or Argand burner. The light should be placed close to, and on a level with the patient’s left ear. Both the anterior and posterior nares should be examined. Anterior Rhinoscopy.—Before the introduction of the speculum the tip of the nose should be tilted up and the interior of the vestibule and the anterior part of the septum examined. In this way the existence of eczema or small furuncules, the presence of dilated or bleeding vessels upon, or a perforation of, the anterior part of the septum may be noted, and the general appearances observed. After inserting the speculum into the vestibule and dilating it, the following parts should be sought for and examined :—Close to the floor, and^attached to the outer wall of Sphenoidal sinus. Opening of sphe- noidal sinus. Sphenoidal sinus. Superior meatus. Infundibulum. Ethmoidal cells. Uncinate process. Accessory maxil- lary opening. turbinal. Inferior meatus. Opening of posterior eth- moidal cells. Spheno-etlimoidal recess. Superior turbinal. Fig. 68.—The outer wall of left nasal chamber, after removal of the middle turbinated body. (After Logan Turner.) the nasal cavity, is the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body (Fig. 68). This structure overhangs the inferior meatus. It presents a pink appearance, and its size varies in different persons. At a higher level and on a posterior plane is the anterior end of the middle turbin- ated body, which is of a paler colour than the inferior, and is only visible when the head is tilted backwards. Between it and the inferior turbinated body is the middle meatus, with which communicate the openings of the antrum of Highmore, the frontal sinus, and the anterior ethmoidal cells. A considerable area of the anterior part of the nasal septum is also visible by anterior rhinoscopy, and between it and the middle turbinal is a narrow chink—the olfactory sulcus. Posterior Rhinoscopy. — Examination of the posterior nares and naso- pharynx is frequently attended with difficulty. The patient is directed to breathe through the nose, the tongue is depressed with a spatula, and a small-sized laryngeal mirror, comfortably warmed and with its reflecting surface turned upwards, is carefully introduced behind the VOL. II—15THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 226 soft palate. When a good examination of the naso-pharynx is obtained, the following parts may he seen reflected in the mirror : the posterior surface of the uvula and soft palate, and above them, in the mesial plane, the posterior free edge of the septum nasi. On each side of the septum the apertures of the posterior nares, in which may be seen the ujDper part of the posterior end of the inferior turbinal, the middle meatus, the posterior end of the middle turbinal, the superior meatus, and occasion- ally a portion of the superior turbinal. On the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx the Eustachian opening and cushion can be seen, while by tilting the mirror backwards the vault of the naso-pharynx can be inspected. Digital examination of the naso-pharynx may be required, especially in children. The examiner passes his left arm and hand round the back of the child’s head, and with one of his fingers presses the cheek inwards between the jaws. His right forefinger is carried along the dorsum of the tongue, passed up behind the soft palate, and a rapid examination made of the post-nasal space. Cardinal Symptoms of Nasal Affections. — The chief symptoms of nasal disease are : nasal obstruction, nasal dis- charge, anomalies of smell and taste, and certain reflex phenomena. Nasal Obstruction.—This may be partial or complete, inter- mittent or constant, and may be the cause of such symptoms as alteration in the tone of the voice, catarrh of the respiratory passages, snoring, cough, headache, inability to concentrate the attention, alteration in the physiognomy, or deformity of the chest. The half-open mouth, drooping jaw, lengthened appearance of the face, narrow nostrils, and vacant expression are charac- teristic signs of nasal obstruction. Nasal obstruction may be due to intra-nasal or to post-nasal (naso-pharyngeal) causes. Amongst the former may be noted as the more common, erectile swelling and hypertrophy of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bones, and nasal polypi growing from the middle turbinal and middle meatal region. Causes originating in the septum include deviations, spines and ridges, and septal hsematoma and abscess. Obstruction may also be due to the presence of a foreign body in the nasal cavity, to rliinoliths, and to imperfect development of the nasal chambers. Further, tumours, both simple and malignant, and such conditions as tubercle, lupus, syphilis, and glanders may interfere more or less with nasal respiration. The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is the presence of adenoids; more rarely fibro-mucous polypi, fibrous tumours, malignant disease, and cicatricial contractions and adhesions resulting from syphilis are met with. Erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies is due to engorgement of the venous spaces contained in the mucous227 SYMPTOMS OF NASAL AFFECTIONS. membrane. Obstruction from this cause is usually intermittent in character, and may be unilateral or bilateral. It is influenced by posture, being worse when the patient is in the horizontal position, and also by changes in atmospheric conditions and temperature. It .is characterised objectively by a swelling of the mucous membrane, which is pink or red in appearance and of a soft consistence, pitting when touched with the probe, and shrinking on the application of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain. Its soft consistence and the fact that it becomes smaller when painted with cocain differentiate it from true hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. Its situation and immobility, its pink colour, and the shrinkage under cocain, distinguish it from the mucous polypus of the nose. The turgescence may involve the whole extent of the mucosa of the inferior turbinated bodies, includ- ing their posterior ends. After anmsthetising with cocain, the electric cautery, or fused chromic acid applied on a probe, may be employed for the relief of the condition. If a true hypertrophy exists, it is better to remove it with a nasal snare. Nasal polypi spring from the mucous membrane covering the middle turbinated bone and from the adjacent parts of the middle meatus, but very rarely from the septum. They consist of oedematous masses of mucous membrane, and are as a rule multiple. They are usually pedunculated, and as they increase in size they become pendulous in the nasal cavity. They are smooth, rounded in outline, of a translucent bluish-grey colour soft in consistence, and freely movable. These characters, and the fact that the probe can be passed round the greater part of the polypus, serve to differentiate this affection from the erectile swelling. It must not be forgotten that nasal polypi may be associated with suppuration in one or more of the accessory sinuses. They are frequently present also in malignant disease, and in these cases they bleed readily. They are best removed by means of the cold snare, with the aid of the speculum and a good light. Several sittings are usually necessary. Carcinomata and sarcomata sometimes grow from the muco- periosteum in the region of the ethmoid. They tend to invade adjacent parts, giving rise to haemorrhage and symptoms of nasal obstruction, and as they increase in size they may cause considerable deformity of the face. If diagnosed early an attempt should be made to remove the growth. Deviations, spines, and ridges of the septum may produce partial or complete occlusion of the anterior naris. In deviation of the septum, the obstructed nostril is more or less occluded by228 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. a smooth rounded swelling of cartilaginous or bony hardness, which is covered with normal mucous membrane, while the opposite nostril shows a corresponding concavity or hollowing of the septum. Sometimes the convex side is thickened in the form of a ridge. A simple spine of the septum is usually situated anteriorly, and presents an acuminate appearance, often pressing against the inferior turbinated body; it is hard to the touch. Ridges and spines may be cut or sawn off, or removed with the chisel. Many methods of dealing with a deviated septum have been suggested, such as forcible fracture or excision of a portion of the cartilage. A submucous resection of the deflected portion is to be preferred. Hcematoma of the septum is usually traumatic in origin. As the result of a blow an extravasation of blood takes place beneath the perichondrium on each side of the septum, and a bilateral, symmetrical swelling, smooth in outline and covered with mucous membrane, is visible immediately within the anterior nares. The blood is usually absorbed and should not be inter- fered with. If suppuration occurs, however, the swelling becomes soft, fluctuation can be detected, and the patient’s discomfort increases. The abscess must then be incised and the cavity drained. It is sometimes found that a portion of the cartilage undergoes necrosis, leading to perforation of the septum. Nasal discharge may be mucous, muco-purulent, or purulent in character. When it is of a clear, watery nature, it is usually associated with erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies. A purulent discharge may be complained of from one or both nostrils. If unilateral, it should suggest, in the case of children, the presence of a foreign body; in adults, the possibility of suppuration in one or more of the accessory sinuses. In infants, a purulent discharge from both nostrils may be due to gonorrhoeal infection or to inherited syphilis. Nasal discharge may be constant or intermittent. It is sometimes influenced by changes in posture; for example, it may be chiefly complained of at the back of the nose and in the throat when the patient occupies the horizontal position, or it may flow from the nostril when the patient bends his head forward or to one side. The discharge may be intra-nasal in origin, or due altogether to naso- pharyngeal catarrh. It varies somewhat in colour and con- sistence, and may be associated with such intra-nasal conditions as purulent rhinitis following scarlet fever and other exanthemata, or ulceration accompanying malignant disease, syphilis, or tuberculosis. Sometimes it contains shreds of false membrane, for example, in nasal diphtheria ; or white cheesy masses as in229 NASAL DISCHARGE. coryza caseosa. The formation of crusts is significant of foetid atrophic rhinitis (ozama) and syphilis, and in these last-named conditions the discharge is associated with a most objectionable and distinctive foetor. Pus from the maxillary sinus is often foetid, and the odour is noticed by the patient; while the odour of ozama is not recognised by the patient, although very obvious to others. Foreign bodies of various descriptions have been met with in the nasal cavities, particularly of children. They set up suppura- tion and give rise to a unilateral discharge, which is often offensive in character. The surgeon must not be satisfied with the history given by the parents, but, with the aid of good illumination, and, in young children, under general aniesthesia, the nose should be carefully inspected and probed. If there is much swelling, the introduction of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain will facilitate the examination by diminishing the conges- tion of the mucous membrane. No attempt should be made to remove a foreign body from the nose by syringing. If fluid is injected into the obstructed nostril, it is liable to force the body farther back, while if injected into the free nostril, it is apt to accumulate in the naso - pharynx and to pass into the Eustachian tubes. A fine hook should be passed behind the body and traction made upon it, or sinus forceps or a snare may be employed. Care must be taken that the body is not pushed still deeper into the cavity. Fungi and parasites should first be killed with injections of chloroform water, or by making the patient inhale chloroform vapour. Rhinoliths.—Concretions having a plug of inspissated mucus or a small foreign body as a nucleus sometimes form in the nose. They are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and have a covering of thickened nasal secretion. They are rough on the surface, dark in colour, and usually lie in the inferior meatus. They give rise to the same symptoms as a foreign body, and are treated in the same way. The stone, which is usually single, may be so large and so hard that it is necessary to crush it before it can be removed. Ozcenci, or foetid atrophic rhinitis, is characterised by atrophy of the nasal mucous membrane, and sometimes even of the turbinated bones, and is accompanied by a muco-purulent dis- charge and the formation of crusts having a characteristic offensive odour, which is not recognised by the patient. It is usually bilateral, and the nasal chambers, owing to the atrophy, are very roomy. It may be differentiated from a tertiary syphilitic con- dition by the absence of ulceration and necrosis of bone, by230 THE NOSE AND NASO PHARYNX. the odour, and by the fact that it is not influenced by potassium iodide and mercury. Various methods of treatment are in vogue, but thorough cleanliness is the most essential factor, and this is best secured by regular syringing. Plugging of the nostrils with cotton-wool for half an hour before washing out the nose greatly facilitates the detachment of the crusts. A pint of lukewarm solution, containing a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or of common salt, is then used with a Higginson’s syringe, the patient leaning over a basin and breathing in and out quickly through the oj^en mouth. The patient should then forcibly blow down each nostril in turn, the other being occluded with the finger, so that the septic material may thus be blown out without risk of it entering the Eustachian tubes, as may happen when the handker- chief is used in the ordinary way. Antiseptic sprays and oint- ments may be applied to the mucous membrane after cleansing. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose may be due either to local or to general causes. Among the former may be cited injuries such as result from the introduction of foreign bodies, blows on the face, and fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull, and the ulceration of syphilitic, tuberculous, or malignant disease. Amongst the general conditions in which nasal haemorrhage may occur are typhoid fever, anaemia and purpura, cardiac and renal disease, cirrhosis of the liver, and whooping cough. Nasal haemorrhage usually takes place from one or more dilated capillaries situated at the anterior, inferior part of the septum close to the vestibule, and in such cases the bleeding point is readily detected. Occasionally bleeding occurs from one of the anterior ethmoidal veins, and under these circum- stances the blood flows downwards between the middle turbinal and the septum. Before steps are taken to arrest the bleeding, the interior of the nose should, if possible, be inspected and the bleeding point sought for. As a preliminary to the use of local applications the nose should be washed out with boracic lotion or salt solution to remove all clots from the cavity. In many cases this is all that is necessary to stop the bleeding. If the bleeding is not very copious, it may be stopped by grasping the alse nasi between the finger and thumb, or by spraying the nasal cavity with adrenalin. If the blood is evidently flowing from the olfactory sulcus, a strip of gauze soaked in adrenalin, turpentine, or other styptic should be packed between the septum and middle turbinated body. If recurrent haemor- rhage takes place from the anterior and lower part of the septum, the application of the electric cautery at a dull red heat,SUPPURATION IN ACCESSORY SINUSES. 231 or of the chromic acid bead fused on a probe, is the best method of treatment. Plugging of the posterior nares is rarely necessary, as, in the majority of cases, an anterior plug suffices. Suppuration in the Accessory Nasal Sinuses.—As already stated, the presence of pus in the nose should always direct attention to its possible origin in one or more of the accessory sinuses, especially if the discharge is unilateral. The condition is usually a chronic one, and may be present for months, or even years, without the patient suffering much inconvenience save from the presence of the discharge. If on examination by anterior rhinoscopy, pus is seen in the middle meatus, suspicion should be aroused of its origin in the antrum of Highmore, frontal sinus, or anterior ethmoidal cells, as all these cavities communicate with that channel. If, on the other hand, the pus is detected in the olfactory sulcus, attention must be directed to the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinus (Fig. 68). Further evidence of its source in the last-named cavities may be gained by finding pus in the superior meatus above the middle turbinal on examination by posterior rhinoscopy. As the anterior group of sinuses is most frequently affected, and of these most commonly the antrum of Highmore, attention should first be turned to this cavity. The complaint of a bad odour or taste, the reappearance of pus in the middle meatus after mopping it away and directing the patient to bend his head well forwards, and opacity on illumination of the suspected cavity, are signs which strongly suggest an affection of the maxillary sinus. Puncture through the thin outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose with a fine trocar and cannula, and the washing out of pus after first carefully cleansing the nasal cavity, will establish the diagnosis. The treatment consists in opening the antrum through the canine fossa, and, after curetting its walls, packing the cavity with iodoform worsted. To avoid the risk of reinfecting the cavity from the mouth, an opening may be made into the nose, by removing the anterior portion of the nasal wall of the antrum and part of the inferior turbinated bone, after which the incision in the buccal mucous membrane is closed with sutures. Suppuration in the frontal sinus may be diagnosed after first excluding the antrum, and finding that pus continues to flow into the nose ; the posture test is probably negative, and there may be tenderness upon pressure over the sinus. After removal of the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone it may be possible to catheterise the sinus and blow out or wash out pus from its interior. The diseased sinus may present a darkerTHE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 232 shadow than the healthy one in an X-ray photograph. In some cases the diagnosis can only be made by opening the cavity through an incision in the line of the eyebrow. The anterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected in con- junction with the frontal, and sometimes with the maxillary sinus, and a diagnosis may only be arrived at by eliminating these. The presence of polypi and granulations, with pus oozing out from between them, and increasing after withdrawal of the probe, and the detection of carious bone are significant of the condition. Suppuration in the sphenoidal sinus is characterised in many cases by the presence of eye symptoms. Pus in the olfactory sulcus, on the upper surface of the middle turbinal posteriorly, and on the vault of the naso-pharynx, is suggestive of sphenoidal suppuration. If removal of the middle turbinated bone permits of inspection of the ostium sphenoidale by anterior rhinoscopy, pus may be seen escaping from the orifice. Exploratory catheterisation or breaking down of the anterior wall of the sinus and irrigation may be used as additional aids in diagnosis. The posterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected along with the sphenoidal sinus. The nasal appearances just noted are present, and if the sphenoidal sinus can be washed out and its osteum temporarily plugged, and pus rapidly reappears, its origin from these cells is probable. Anomalies of Smell and Taste.—Anosmia or loss of smell is not infrequently a symptom of nasal affections. Any lesion that prevents the passage of the odoriferous particles to the olfactory region of the nose interferes with the sense of smell. In oztena the sense of smell is lost. Anosmia may also be of central origin. Parosmia, or the sensation of a bad odour, may be of functional origin; it sometimes occurs after influenza. It may also be associated with maxillary suppuration. Impair- ment or loss of the sense of recognising flavours is due to interference with the olfactory nerve. Reflex Symptoms of Nasal Origin.—It is only necessary here to draw attention to the relation that exists between affections of the nose and asthma. Nasal polypi, erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies, spines of the septum in contact with the inferior turbinal, or of areas on the mucous membrane which, when probed, produce coughing, when present in asth- matic subjects, call for treatment with the object of modifying the asthma. Post-nasal Obstruction—Adenoid Vegetations.—The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is hypertrophy of the233 ADENOIDS. normal lymphoid tissue which constitutes the naso-pharyngeal or Luschka’s tonsil. Adenoids form a soft, velvety mass, which projects from the vault of the naso-pharynx and extends down its posterior and lateral walls, in some cases filling up the fossae of Rosenmiiller behind the Eustachian cushions. They do not grow from the margins of the posterior nares. Adenoids are frequently associated with hypertrophy of the faucial tonsils, and the patient often suffers from granular pharyngitis and chronic nasal catarrh. The possibility of the condition being tuberculous must be borne in mind. These growths are sometimes met with in infants, but are most common between the ages of five and fifteen, after which they tend to undergo atrophy. They may, how'ever, persist into adult life. Clinical Features.—The most prominent symptom in most cases is interference with nasal respiration, so that the patient is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The facies of adenoids is characteristic : the mouth is kept partly open, the face appears lengthened, the nose is flattened by the falling in of the aim nasi, the inner angles of the eyes are drawn down, and the eyelids droop, while the whole facial expression is dull and stupid. As the respiratory difficulty is increased during sleep, the patient snores loudly, and his sleep is frequently broken by sudden night terrors. Owing to the disturbed sleep, to imperfect oxygenation of the blood, and to frequent attacks of nasal and bronchial catarrh, the child’s nutrition is interfered with, and he becomes languid and backward at his lessons. When the adenoids encroach upon the Eustachian cushions, the patient suffers from deafness, frequent attacks of earache, and some- times from suppurative otitis media with a discharge from the ear. Among the rarer conditions attributed to adenoids are asthma, inspiratory laryngeal stridor, persistent cough, chorea, and nocturnal enuresis. A diagnosis should never be made from the symptoms alone ; an attempt should be made to examine the naso-pharynx by posterior rhinoscopy and by digital examination. The interior of the nose must always be examined and any further cause of obstruction excluded. Treatment.—Thorough removal is the only satisfactory line of treatment, and this should be done under general anaesthesia. The methods of operating are various, but the following brief description will indicate how the adenoid mass may be satis- factorily removed. The following instruments are necessary :— two Gottstein’s adenoid curettes, one provided with a cradle234 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. and hooks, the other without, a Hartmann’s lateral ring knife, and one pair of adenoid forceps—Kuhn’s or Loewenberg’s—a tongue depressor, a gag, and one or two small throat sponges on holders. The patient having been anaesthetised, his head should be drawn over the end of the table, which is placed close to the window. An assistant standing on the left side inserts the gag and maintains it in position. The operator, being on the patient’s right, depresses the tongue and insinuates the curette provided with the hooks behind the soft palate, carrying it to the roof of the naso-pharynx between the growth and the posterior free edge of the nasal septum. Firm pressure is then made against the vault of the naso-pharynx, and the curette is carried backwards and downwards in the mesial plane, and withdrawn with the main mass of the adenoids caught in the hooks. The unguarded curette is then introduced and several strokes are made with it, the instrument being carried on either side of the mesial plane. With Hartmann’s lateral ring knife the posterior naso-pharyngeal wall and fossae of Rosenmuller are curetted. The curette should not be used on the lateral pharyngeal wall in case the Eustachian orifices and cushions be damaged. Bleeding soon ceases when the head is again elevated, and the patient should be at once laid well over upon his side so that the blood may escape from the mouth. No local after-treatment is required, and spraying or syringing may prove harmful. The patient should remain in the house for five or six days. If nasal obstruction has been the out- standing symptom, respiratory exercises through the nose should be carried out for some considerable time; on the other hand, if Eustachian obstruction and deafness have been the main features of the case, a course of Politzer inflation should be con- ducted after the wound has healed. Tumours of the Naso-pharynx.—Tumours are occasionally met with growing from the muco-periosteum of the basi-sphenoid and basi-occipital, and projecting from the vault of the naso- pharynx— naso-pharyngeal polypus. They may originally be fibromata, but they tend to assume the characters of fibro-sarco- mata and exhibit malignant tendencies. They usually occur between the ages of fifteen and twenty. At first the tumour is firm, rounded, and of slow growth, but later it becomes softer, more vascular, and grows more rapidly, spreading forwards towards the nasal cavity and downwards towards the pharynx. Clinical Features.—In its growth the tumour blocks the nostrils, and so interferes with nasal respiration and causes the patient to snore loudly, especially during sleep. It may alsoNASO-PHARYNGEAL TUMOURS. 235 bulge the soft palate towards the mouth and interfere with deglutition. In some cases the face becomes flattened and expanded and the eyes are pushed outwards, giving rise to a deformity known as frog-face. Deafness may result from ob- struction of the Eustachian tube. The patient suffers from intense frontal headache, and there is a persistent and offensive mucous discharge from the nose. Profuse recurrent bleeding from the nose is a common symptom, and the patient becomes profoundly anaemic. The tumour can usually be seen on ex- amination with the nasal speculum or by posterior rhinoscopy, and its size and limits may be recognised by digital examination. Unless removed by operation these tumours prove fatal from haemorrhage, interference with respiration, or by perforating the base of the skull and giving rise to intra-cranial complications. Treatment.—These growths are seldom recognised before they have attained considerable dimensions, and owing to the fact that they are permeated by numerous large, thin-walled venous sinuses, their removal is attended with formidable haemorrhage. Attempts to remove them by the galvanic snare are seldom satisfactory, because the base of the tumour is left behind and recurrence is liable to take place. To obtain free access it is usually necessary to perform some osteoplastic operation on the superior maxilla, and to minimise bleeding during the operation a temporary ligature may be passed round the external carotid artery. Annandale has reached these growths from the mouth by splitting the hard and soft palate and temporarily separating the two halves of the upper jaw. Nelaton gained access by splitting the uvula and soft palate and removing a portion of the hard palate and nasal septum. Other surgeons—Rouge and Ollier—have oper- ated through the nasal cavity by temporarily displacing the nose. The best access is obtained by resecting the greater part of the superior maxilla, the orbital plate and the muco-periosteum of the hard palate being conserved to diminish the subsequent deformity. We have found that the method of splitting the upper lip, and separating the alveolar process from the rest of the bone by means of a chisel, and then dividing the alveolar process in the middle line and holding the two halves aside, gives good access. In view of the profuse bleeding attending these operations it is advisable to perform a preliminary laryngo- tomy, or to pass a tube through the glottis and pack the pharynx round it. When the patient is markedly anaemic there is a risk of his dying on the table from loss of blood, or death may be due to blood entering the air-passages.236 CHAPTER XY1. THE NECK. Surgical anatomy — Malformations: Branchial fistula; Cervical auricles—Wry-neck : Varieties; Cicatricial contraction—Injuries: Contusions — Fractures of hyoid, larynx, etc. ; Cut - throat — Inflammatory affections: Diffuse cellulitis; Actinomycosis; Boils and carbuncles ■— Tumours : Cystic: Branchial cysts; Cystic lymphangioma ; Blood cysts ; Thyro ■ glossal cysts ; Bursal cysts— Solid: Lipoma; Fibroma; Osteoma; Sarcoma; Carcinoma—Cervical rib—The Tliymus Gland—The Carotid Gland. Surgical Anatomy.—In the middle line the following structures may be recognised on palpation: (1) the hyoid bone, lying below and behind the body of the lower jaw, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra ; (2) the thyro-hyoid membrane, behind which lies the base of the epiglottis and the upper opening of the larynx ; (3) the thyroid cartilage, to the angle of which the vocal cords are attached about its middle ; (4) the crico - thyroid membrane, across which run trans- versely the crico - thyroid branches of the superior thyroid arteries; (5) the cricoid cartilage, one of the most important landmarks in the neck. It lies opposite the disc between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and at this level the common carotid artery may be compressed against the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra —the carotid tubercle. The cricoid also marks the junction of the larynx with the trachea, and of the pharynx with the oesophagus ; at this point there is a constriction in the food passage, and foreign bodies are frequently impacted here. At the level of the cricoid cartilage the omo-hyoid crosses the carotid artery—a point of importance in connection with ligation of that vessel. The middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic lies opposite the level of the cricoid. (6) Seven or eight rings of the trachea lie above the level of the sternum, but they cannot be palpated individually. The isthmus of the thyroid gland covers the second, third, and fourth tracheal rings. As the trachea passes down the neck, it gradually recedes from the surface, till at the level of the sternum it lies about an inch and a half from the skin. The thyroidea ima artery—an inconstant branch of the innominate or of the aorta— runs in front of the trachea as far up as the thyroid isthmus. The inferior uhyroid plexus of veins also lies in front of the trachea. In children under two years of age the thymus gland may extend for some distance into the neck in front of the trachea and carotid vessels, under cover of the depressors of the hyoid bone.MALFORMATIONS OF THE NECK. 237 Cervical Fascia.—This fascia completely envelops the neck, and from its deep aspect two strong processes—the prevertebral and pretracheal layers—pass transversely across the neck, dividing it into three main compartments. The posterior or vertebral compartment contains the muscles of the back of the neck, the vertebral column and its contents, and the prevertebral muscles. This compartment is limited above by the base of the skull, and below is continued into the posterior mediastinum of the thorax. The middle or visceral compartment contains the pharynx and oesophagus, the larynx and trachea with the thyroid gland, and the carotid sheath and its contents. These different structures derive their special fascial coverings from the processes that bound this compartment. The middle compartment extends to the base of the skull and passes into the anterior mediastinum of the thorax as far as the pericardium. The connective tissue space around the vessels is continued into the axilla. The anterior or muscular compart- ment contains the sterno-mastoid muscle and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. It extends upwards as far as the hyoid bone and base of the lower jaw, and downwards as far as the sternum and clavicle. The arrangement and limits of the different layers of the cervical fascia explain the course taken by inflammatory products and by new growths in the neck. Malformations of the Neck—Branchial Fistulai.—The parietes of the neck are formed by the coalescence of the second, third, and fourth branchial arches of the foetus. Any inter- ference with the complete fusion of these arches and with the consequent obliteration of the intervening clefts results in the formation of a branchial fistula. The fistula may be lateral or median; in most cases it is complete, but it may be blind either externally or internally. The most common variety is the complete lateral fistula, the external opening of which is placed at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, about an inch above the sterno-clavicular joint, and the internal in the region of the posterior pillar of the fauces close to the tonsil. It is often difficult to pass a probe along the fistula, as the track is usually tortuous, and the calibre varies greatly in different cases. It is lined by mucous membrane, the secretion of which is clear and viscous, and the only trouble the patient experiences is the escape of this fluid on the surface. In rare cases particles of food pass along the fistula. Firm fibrous or cartilaginous nodules, the remains of the branchial arches, may be found in the vicinity of the fistula in any part of its course. The treatment consists in excising the fistulous track in its whole length, but, owing to its long and tortuous course, and its relations to important structures, the operation is always a tedious and difficult one. Less radical measures, such as scraping with the sharp spoon, cauterising, or packing, are seldom successful.238 THE NECK. Abnormal appendages, composed of skin, connective tissue, and yellow elastic cartilage—so-called cervical auricles—are sometimes met with in the neck. They are derived from isolated portions of a branchial arch, and are frequently found at the opening of a branchial fistula. Branchial cysts and branchial carcinoma are described with tumours of the neck Wry-neck or Torticollis.—The term wry-neck or torticollis is applied to a condition in which the head assumes an abnormal form ; and (3) the spasmodic form. Acute or Transient wry-neck comes on suddenly, usually after the patient has been exposed to a draught of cold air or to damp. The condition is popularly known as “ stiff neck,” and is due to rheumatic myositis or neuritis. The sterno- mastoid, and often the trapezius, is contracted, and pulls the head to one side, twisting the face slightly towards the opposite side (Fig. 69). There is tenderness on pressing over the affected muscles, and severe pain on attempting to move the head. Usually in the course of a few days the condition passes off as suddenly as it came on, and in some cases a certain amount of wasting of the affected muscles ensues. In the diagnosis of this form of wry-neck it is necessary to exclude such conditions as cellulitis, inflammation of the cervical (p. 247). attitude, which is usually one of combined lateral flexion and torsion. The varieties to be first described are those of muscular origin. In conditions of health the head is maintained straight and erect by the tonicity of the cervical muscles, and any want of equilib- rium between the muscles of the two sides, or be- tween different groups of muscles, results in some degree of wry-neck. Three varieties of mus- cular wry-neck are recog- chronic or permanentWRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS. 239 glands, and disease of the cervical spine, in which the head may assume an abnormal attitude, the position being that which gives the patient greatest comfort. The treatment consists in administering anti-rheumatic drugs, in applying warm dressings, and gentle massage. Permanent or true wry-neck is due to an organic shortening of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In some cases the trapezius, the splenius, the scaleni, and even the levator anguli scapulae muscles are also affected. The sternal head of the sterno - mastoid is always markedly shortened, and stands out as a tight cord ; sometimes the clavicular head is also prominent. The cervical fascia is con- tracted to a greater or less extent in all cases—a point of importance in con- nection with treat- ment. Opinion is divided concerning the eti- ology of the condition. By some it is regarded as a truly congenital deformity resulting from an arrest of de- velopment from undue pressure on the foetus in utero, or from some ante-datal affection of the muscles or nerves. By others it is believed to result from cica- tricial contraction of the muscle following a rupture of its fibres occurring during delivery. In a considerable proportion of children who develop wry-neck there is a history that the birth was a difficult one, the presentation having been abnormal ; and that a swelling was observed in the sterno-mastoid shortly after birth. This swelling—a hcematoma of the sterno-mastoid—was at first soft, later became smaller, and eventually disappeared. In course of time, sometimes months, sometimes years after the dis- appearance of the swelling, shortening of the muscle takes place, FiG. 70. — Permanent Wry-neck, showing char- acteristic attitude of head, hemiatrophy of face on affected side, asymmetry of eyes, and mouth.THE NECK. 240 and the deformity is established. There is evidence that in some cases the deformity is really congenital, while in others it is acquired in the manner suggested. The cicatricial contraction which follows the disappearance of a syphilitic gumma of the sterno-mastoid may produce wry-neck. In some cases errors of refraction, astigmatism, and other abnormalities of the eyes play an important part in the production of wry-neck. In rare cases torticollis results from paralysis of one sterno-mastoid. Clinical Features.—The appearance of the patient is very characteristic (Fig. 70). The shortening of the sterno-mastoid pulls the head towards the affected side, usually the right, so that the ear is approximated to the shoulder. At the same time the head is rotated towards the opposite side and slightly tilted backwards, with the result that the chin is directed towards the opposite side, and is somewhat, raised. The shortened sterno-mastoid stands out prominently, and, on any attempt to straighten the head, can be felt as a firm, fibrous band. The skin of the affected side of the neck may be thrown into transverse folds. The patient is unable to correct the deformity, but it is usually possible to diminish it by manipulation. If the condition is not corrected early, all the soft structures on the affected side of the neck undergo organic shortening, with the result that the deformity becomes accentuated. In aggravated cases a lateral curvature, with the concavity towards the affected side, occurs in the cervical region, the vertebrse becoming wedge- shaped from side to side, and a compensatory curve may develop in the upper dorsal region. There is often a marked asymmetry of the head and face, the affected side being the smaller. The eye on this side lies on a lower level, and is more oblique than its neighbour, the cheek is flattened, and the mouth is asymmetrical. The asymmetry may extend to the shoulders and thorax. Treatment.—When the condition is recognised early, it may be possible to correct the deformity by forcibly stretching the muscle under anaesthesia and fixing the neck in a rigid apparatus. Prolonged treatment by massage, exercises, and electricity is necessary to prevent relapse. In infants potassium iodide should be given, to exclude the possibility of the condi- tion being due to a gumma. In the majority of cases the short'ened structures must be divided. Subcutaneous tenotomy—at one time the favourite method of treatment—has been almost entirely replaced by the open operation, which enables the surgeon to divide thoroughlyWRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS. 241 all the structures at fault, including the cervical fascia, and at the same time to avoid injuring other structures in the neck. A horizontal incision is made over the lower third of the muscle, and each of the heads of origin is thoroughly and completely divided. Any shortened bands of fascia that stand out after division of the muscle are also freely divided. The wound is sutured, and the head fixed in a slightly over-corrected position by means of an elastic bandage carried under the axil Ire and round the body. When the wound has healed, the patient is encouraged to move the head freely. To prevent relapse, massage, passive movements, douching and electricity must be employed for months after the operation. The asymmetry may disappear entirely within two or three years after operation. Spasmodic wry-neck is the term applied to a condition in which clonic contractions of certain of the muscles of the neck produce convulsive jerkings of the head. The muscles most frequently at fault are the sterno-mastoid of one side, and the posterior rotators of the opposite side. By these muscles the head is pulled into the position of ordinary wry-neck, and is at the same time slightly retracted. In some cases there is more or less constant nodding or jerking of the head. The condition is usually met with in adults of a neurotic disposition who are in a depressed state of health, and is due to some lesion, as yet undiscovered, in the nerve mechanism of the affected muscles—most probably in their cortical centres. By some authorities it is believed that the spasmodic jerkings are originated by certain movements habitually made by the patient in the course of his work. It has been observed in some cases that, as a result of astigmatism and other errors of refrac- tion, the patient has acquired the habit of repeatedly tilting his head to enable him to see clearly, and that these movements have become continuous and uncontrollable. The disease tends to become progressively worse until the patient is incapacitated for work or enjoyment. Sleep even may be seriously interfered with. Treatment.—Experience has shown that in well-marked cases little benefit is to be derived from drugs, electricity or restrain- ing apparatus. Massage has been temporarily beneficial in some of the milder cases. Of the operative procedures resection of portions of the spinal accessory nerve on one side, and of the posterior primary branches of the first three spinal nerves on the opposite side, seems to offer the best prospect of recovery. The spinal accessory is reached through an incision beginning at the tip of the mastoid VOL. II—16THE NECK. 242 process and passing downwards and forwards parallel with the lower jaw. The nerve runs obliquely from above downwards and backwards and enters the muscle on its deep aspect. Simple division of these nerves or resection of the spinal accessory alone has not proved permanently curative. Division of the offending muscles without interfering with the nerves has given good results (Kocher). True spasmodic wry-neck must be distinguished from the hysterical variety occasionally met with in neurotic females. This, after lasting for weeks, or even months, may pass off com- pletely, but, like other hysterical affections, is liable to recur. The cicatricial contraction of the integument of the neck that results from extensive burns (Fig. 48), wounds, abscesses or ulcers, may cause unsightly deformity and fixation of the head in an abnormal attitude, and call for surgical treatment. Deviations of the neck simulating torticollis occur in various diseases and deformities of the spine. Injuries of the Neck. Contusion of the neck may result from a blow or crush, as, for example, the passage of a wheel over the neck, or from throttling, strangling or hanging. In medico-legal cases the distribution of the discoloration should be carefully noted. When due to throttling, the marks of the individual fingers may be dis- tinctly recognisable, and nail-prints may be present. In cases of strangling, the mark of the cord passes straight round the neck, while in suicidal hanging it is more or less oblique and is higher behind than in front. When due to a direct blow, for example by a fist, the discoloration is limited, while it is usually diffused all over the neck when due to the passage of a wheel over the part. The clinical importance of these injuries depends on the complications that may be present; for example, extravasation of blood under the cervical fascia may press upon the air- passages and oesophagus to such an extent as to cause inter- ference with breathing and swallowing; the larynx or the trachea may be so grossly damaged that death results immedi- ately from suffocation, or later from gradually increasing swelling causing obstruction of the glottis. * If the mucous membrane of the air-passage is torn, emphysema of the connective tissue may develop and spread widely over the body. In contusions of the lower part of the neck the cords of the brachial plexus may be injured.243 CUT-THROAT. Fractures of the Hyoid, Larynx and Trachea.—The hyoid \ hone, on account of its mobility and the protection it receives from the body of the lower jaw, is seldom fractured, except in old people in whom the great cornu has become ossified to the body of the bone. It is usually produced either by a direct blow, or by transverse pressure as in throttling. The fracture is almost always at the junction of the great cornu with the body, and there is marked displacement of the fragments. The patient usually feels the bone crack, and experiences a sensation as if something hard had stuck in his throat. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are also liable to be fractured, particularly in old people after calcification or ossification has taken place. These fractures may be single or multiple, and they usually result from a direct blow, from throttling, or from the passage of a wheel over the neck. The trachea may be lacerated, or even completely torn from the larynx, by the same forms of injury as produce fracture of the laryngeal cartilages. The clinical features common to all these injuries are swelling and discoloration ; and if the mucous membrane is torn, air may escape into the tissues and produce emphysema. There is always more or less difficulty in breathing, which may amount to actual suffocation, and this may come on immediately, or in the course of a few hours from oedema of the glottis. Blood may pass into the lungs and be coughed up. Swallowing is usually difficult and painful, especially in fracture of the hyoid bone. There is also pain on speaking, and the voice is husky and indistinct. Spasmodic coughing is common. The prognosis is always grave on account of the shock, and the risk of suffocation and of septic pneumonia. Treatment.—In many cases tracheotomy is called for either to relieve impending suffocation or to anticipate dyspnoea from cedema of the glottis. In fracture of the hyoid the fragments may be replaced by manipulation through the mouth, after which the parts are supported by cotton-wool and a bandage, or in a poroplastic collar. Wounds — Cut-throat.— The most important variety of wound of the neck met with in civil practice is that known as “cut-throat”—an injury usually inflicted with suicidal, less frequently with homicidal intent. We are concerned here only with such cases as do not at once prove fatal. Suicidal wounds are usually directed from left to right (if the patient is right-handed), and they run more or less obliquely from below upwards across the neck; the wound beingTHE NECK. 244 deepest towards its left end, that is where the weapon enters, and gradually tailing off towards the right. In most cases the would-be suicide throws his head so far back at the moment of inflicting the wound, that the main vessels are carried backward under cover of the tense sterno-mastoid muscles, and so escape injury. The knife may even reach the vertebral column without damaging the contents of the carotid sheath. Homicidal wounds are usually more directly transverse, and are of equal depth throughout. The main vessels are generally divided, the oesophagus and trachea opened into, and in some cases the spinal canal is opened and the cord and its membranes injured. In a large proportion of suicidal attempts the patient only succeeds in inflicting one or more comparatively superficial wounds across the front of the neck. In many cases the haemorrhage from these is trifling, but if the external jugular and other large superficial veins are divided, it may be fairly profuse, although it is seldom immediately fatal. The contraction of the platysma causes such wounds to gape widely, and their edges tend to be turned in. Occasionally, but very rarely, the wound is made above the hyoid bone, and opens directly into the mouth. There may then be sharp haemorrhage from the base of the tongue or from the lingual and facial arteries or their branches in the submaxillary region. There may be asphyxia from the base of the tongue and the epiglottis falling back and obstructing the larynx. There is great difficulty in swallowing. The thyro-hyoid membrane is frequently divided, and the pharynx thus opened. In such cases the upper portion of the epiglottis is often cut off, and the base of the tongue, the tonsil or the soft palate may be injured. The lingual, facial, and superior thyroid arteries and the hypoglossal nerve are also liable to be divided at this level, but the main vessels of the neck usually escape. There is pain and difficulty in swallowing, and food and saliva tend to escape through the wound. Particles of food may pass into the air-passages and cause violent fits of coughing. If the depressor muscles of the hyoid and larynx are divided, there may be some interference with deglutition and phonation, but respiration is not affected. In more severe cases the knife enters the larynx or the trachea. Sometimes the thyroid cartilage is divided—as a rule only partially—and the vocal cords are injured; in other cases the ti’aehea is opened, or it may be completely cut across. The245 CUT-THROAT. bleeding is always serious, as the superior thyroid arteries are usually damaged. If the common carotid and the internal jugular vein are also wounded, the haemorrhage usually proves fatal. The fatal issue may be contributed to by blood entering the air-passages and causing asphyxia, or by air being sucked into the open veins and causing air embolism. The laryngeal branches of the vagus may be divided and paralysis of the larynx ensue. In all cases there is more or less dyspnoea and persistent coughing. The voice is husky, and the patient can only express himself in a hoarse whisper. There is difficulty in swallowing, and the food may enter the trachea. When the external wound is small, there may be a considerable degree of emphysema of the cellular tissue. The prognosis depends very largely on the general condition of the patient. The majority of those who attempt to take their own lives are in a low state of health from alcoholic excess, mental worry, privation or other causes, and many succumb even when the wound in the neck is comparatively slight. Shock, loss of blood, asphyxia from blood entering the air-passages, and oedema of the glottis are the most frequent causes of death soon after the injury. Septic cellulitis, septic pneumonia and delirium tremens are later complications that may prove fatal. Treatment. — The first indication is to arrest haemorrhage, and this may be done by applying digital compression over the bleeding points. The bleeding vessels are then sought for and ligatured, the wound being enlarged if necessary. If the food and air passages are intact, any muscles that have been divided should be sutured and the wound closed. When the epiglottis is cut across in wounds opening into the pharynx it should be united with fine silk sutures. The wall of the pharynx and the muscles should then be sutured layer by layer and the skin wound closed. When the air-passage is opened, it is usually advisable to perform tracheotomy, and pack round the tube with sponge or gauze to avoid the risk of oedema of the glottis and to prevent blood entering the lungs. The wound in the larynx or trachea may then be closed with fine stitches and the soft tissues brought together layer by layer. In all cases the wound should be drained. During the after-treatment the head should be flexed on the chest to take all tension off the stitches, and care must be taken that the patient does not interfere with the dressings. He must be kept under constant supervision lest he make a further246 THE NECK. attempt on his life. In some cases it is necessary to feed the patient through a tube passed into the stomach either through the mouth or through the nose; when this is not feasible, nourishment must be given by the rectum. Wounds of the thoracic duct have been described with affections of the lymphatics (vol. i. p. 313), and wounds of the brachial plexus with injuries of individual nerves (vol. i. p. 343). Inflammatory Affections. Diffuse suppurative cellulitis may occur in any of the cellular planes in the neck, the most important form being that which occurs under the cervical fascia; for example, in the course of acute infective diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles or general pyaemia. The pus tends to spread widely throughout the neck, infiltrating the connective tissue spaces around the blood-vessels, the air-passages and the oesophagus. The density and tension of the cervical fascia cause the pus to burrow downwards towards the mediastinal spaces of the thorax, where it may give rise to such complications as empyema, septic peri- carditis, or gangrene of the lung. In some cases the pus reaches the axilla by spreading along the blood-vessels. A particularly virulent form — sometimes spoken of as Ludwig’s angina—is met with in debilitated subjects as a result of infection of the cellular tissue of the neck with streptococci, which are usually derived from some septic focus about the floor of the mouth. Clinical Features.—In all forms the process spreads rapidly, and the tissues of the neck become swollen, brawny and of a dusky red colour. The neck is flexed towards the affected side, and there is pain on attempting to move the head and on palpating the swelling. Pus forms early, but, as it is under great tension, fluctuation can seldom be detected. Respiration may be interfered with by the inflammatory products exerting pressure on the air-passages, or by the onset of oedema of the glottis, and tracheotomy may be urgently called for on account of dyspnoea. Swallowing may also be affected by pressure on the pharynx and oesophagus. Pressure on the important nerves traversing the neck may give rise to irritative or paralytic symptoms. The main vessels may become thrombosed or eroded —particularly when the cellulitis is associated with scarlet fever —and in the latter case copious haemorrhage may follow the incision of the abscess.TUMOURS. 247 There is always marked constitutional disturbance, as evidenced by rigors, high temperature, a small, rapid pulse, and delirium. The prognosis is grave, and death may result within a few days from general septic infection. Treatment. — In the earliest stages hot antiseptic fomen- tations should be applied. If the process does not begin to abate within twenty-four hours, and if the swelling becomes brawny in character, one or more incisions should be made through the deep fascia where the signs of inflammation are most intense, and the deeper planes of the neck should be opened up by Hilton’s method. Drainage is secured by tubes or strips of rubber tissue. Actinomycosis occasionally manifests itself in the neck as an acute phlegmonous inflammation, which causes wide destruction of tissue. Boils and carbuncles frequently occur on the back of the neck where the skin is thick and coarse and is rubbed by the collar (vol. i. p. 358). The affections of the cervical lymphatic glands have already been described (vol. i. p. 318). Tumours. Cystic Tumours.—A great variety of cystic tumours are met with in the neck. Branchial cysts are formed by the distension of an isolated and unobliterated portion of one of the branchial clefts. They usually form in connection with the third cleft, and are met with in the region of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, to which the wall of the cyst is almost always attached. Less frequently they take origin in the second cleft, and lie below the mastoid process, in which case the cyst is adherent either to the mastoid or to the styloid process. In some cases these cysts project towards the floor of the mouth. When near the cutaneous surface they are of the nature of dermoid cysts, being lined with squamous epithelium and filled with sebaceous material. When deeply placed, they are lined by cylindrical or ciliated epithelium and contain a glairy mucoid fluid. Although of congenital origin, these cysts do not usually attract attention till about the age of puberty, when they are noticed as small, soft, fluctuating tumours over which the skin moves freely. They grow very slowly, but may attain great dimensions. The only treatment that yields satisfactory results is complete excision.248 THE NECK. The cystic lymphangioma, hygroma, or hydrocele of the neck has been described with affections of lymphatics (vol. i. p. 317). Blood cysts sometimes develop in relation to large veins in the neck, at first constituting a diverticulum of the vein, but later becoming isolated. It is usually necessary to ligature the vein above and below the cyst, and to remove the intervening portion. Thyro-glossal Cysts in the Neck.—Sometimes the deeper end of the thyro-glossal tract becomes cystic and forms a swelling which appears in the middle line of the neck between the chin and the hyoid bone. The cyst has the same characters as that which occurs in relation to the tongue (p. 196). If it causes disfigurement or is the seat of haemorrhage, it should be com- pletely excised. Cystic swellings sometimes occur in relation to the supra- hyoid and thyro-hyoid bursce. They may be treated by incision and drainage, or by excision. Solid tumours, apart from the common enlargements of lymphatic glands, and the various forms of goitre, are not often met with in the neck. Both varieties of lipoma are occasionally met with. The circumscribed form usually occurs over the nape of the neck or in the supra-clavicular region. It usually attains considerable size, and from its weight becomes pedunculated and hangs down over the patient’s back or shoulder (Fig. 82). Diffuse lipomatosis usually begins over the nape and spreads more or less symmetrically till it completely surrounds the neck (Fig. 43, vol. i.). As the new-formed fat is not encapsulated, extirpation of the mass is difficult and seldom called for. Fibromata frequently grow from the ligamentum nuchse, from the periosteum covering the vertebral processes, and from other fibrous structures. They may attain considerable size. Extirpation is sometimes difficult on account of their deep attachments. Osseous tumours occasionally grow in connection with the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebrae. They are to be distinguished from cervical ribs. Sarcomata may develop from any of the fascial structures in the neck, or from the connective tissue surrounding the blood- vessels. On account of their deep attachments, there is great difficulty in removing these tumours completely, and when they are found to infiltrate the surrounding tissues the attempt should be abandoned. Primary carcinomata have been met with growing from249 TUMOURS. accessory thyroids, and in connection with belated remnants of the branchial clefts—branchial carcinoma. The tumour is usually a squamous epithelioma; it iS deeply placed under cover of the sterno-mastoid, runs the same course as other forms of carcinoma, and is treated by excision. Cervical Ribs.—A supernumerary rib is sometimes de- veloped in connection with the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra on one or on both sides. Such a rib may be complete, attached at one end to the transverse process and at the other to the sternum. More frequently it is incomplete, the anterior end being free or fused with the first thoracic rib about the level of the scalene tubercle. The abnormality, which is twice as common in women as in men, is seldom recognised before the age of twenty, and attention is usually first directed to it after some emaciating illness, the hollow above the clavicle being filled up by a hard bony swelling. Sometimes attention is first directed to it by pain caused by the pressure of a tight collar. The cords of the brachial plexus are liable to be pressed upon and displaced, and the patient complains of pain, which begins in the root of the the neck and radiates to the shoulder, the back, and the pectoral region; sometimes shooting also up the neck, even to the ear. There may be perversion of sensation in the distribution of the nerves to the arm, in the form of numbness, tingling and a sensation of cold. In some cases atrophy of the whole limb has been observed. The subclavian vessels may be lifted up and compressed, giving rise to cyanosis and coldness of the limb, oedema of the hand and arm, and “ dead fingers.” The pulse may be small and feeble, or even obliter- ated. The displaced artery may be mistaken for an aneurysm, a systolic bruit sometimes being heard over it. The diagnosis is confirmed by the use of the X-rays. When serious pressure symptoms are present, the rib may be excised, but this operation should not be performed merely on account of the deformity. The Thymus Gland.—Under normal conditions the thymus gland begins to diminish in size towards the end of the second year, and by the time puberty is reached it has entirely dis- appeared. In some cases, however, the process of involution fails to take place, and the gland may even undergo hypertrophy. It may then exert pressure on the trachea, the great blood- vessels, or the left vagus nerve and its recurrent branch. This may be manifested by symptoms entirely referable to pressure on the trachea—thymus stenosis of the trachea—such as progressive dyspnoea accompanied by stridor, with paroxysmal exacerbations during which the child becomes asphyxiated. ItTHE NECK. 250 is only inspiration that is interfered with, as with each in- spiratory effort the gland is sucked in towards the mediastinum; with expiration it rises again and so frees the air-passages from pressure, and during expiration a soft swelling is sometimes recognisable in the episternal notch. The paroxysms occur at irregular intervals, and any one of them may prove fatal. In some cases the symptoms seem to be associated with pressure on the blood-vessels and nerves rather than on the air-passage, and in these there is great distension of the veins and a tendency to syncopal attacks. The only way to afford relief is to expose the gland and withdraw it from behind the sternum by making traction on its capsule. If the breathing is not thereby improved, the capsule should be opened and the gland shelled out. The term thymic asthma has been applied to another form of disturbed respiration due to a large thymus, which comes on suddenly in infants otherwise apparently healthy. Without warning, the child seems to choke, has great difficulty in breathing, with inspiratory stridor and indrawing of the epi- gastrium ; he rapidly becomes cyanosed and in the majority of cases dies in a few minutes—thymus death. No satisfactory explanation of the sudden onset of the symptoms is forthcoming, but it appears to be associated with something which suddenly 'narrows the mediastinal space, such as backward bending of the head, or venous engorgement of the thymus gland. Cases are recorded in which an attack has come on during the ad- ministration of a general anaesthetic. Tumours of the Carotid Gland {Potato-like tumour of the neck).—The carotid gland under normal conditions is about the size of a grain of corn, and lies to the posterior aspect of the bifurcation of the carotid. It is sometimes the seat of endo- thelioma. The tumour has a definite capsule, is moderately firm and elastic, increases in size slowly and gradually for a time, and then may grow more rapidly. Its relation to the vessels is characteristic : as it grows it envelops the common carotid and its branches and becomes adherent to the internal jugular vein ; and it may come to implicate the large nerves in the neck, par- ticularly the vagus and its recurrent branch, and the cervical sympathetic. It gives rise to few symptoms, and in the majority of cases the surgeon is consulted on account of the disfigurement resulting from the presence of the swelling in the neck. This swelling is ovoid, smooth or slightly lobulated • it lies at the level of the bifurcation of the carotid and tends to grow up-TUMOURS. 251 wards rather than downwards; it is movable from side to side, but not up and down ; it lies under the sterno-mastoid, and the skin is free of the tumour. There is transmitted pulsation in the tumour, but no expansion. The diagnosis has to be made from lymphoma, adenoma, tuberculous glands, sarcoma, and carcinoma. In a large proportion of the cases operated upon it has been necessary to ligature the carotids and to excise portions of the internal jugular vein, and the mortality has hitherto been very high. Operation is therefore only to be recommended when the growth is rapid, or the symptoms have become urgent.252 CHAPTER XVII. THE THYROID GLAND. Surgical Anatomy—Physiological Hyperaemia — Acute Thyroiditis — Goitre—Varieties: Parenchymatous ; Adenomatous; Malignant; Exophthalmic. Surgical Anatomy. —The thyroid gland consists of two lateral lobes connected by an isthmus. The lateral lobes lie in contact with the side of the larynx up to the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and with the sides of the first five or six rings of the trachea, and they move with these structures on deglutition. The isthmus lies in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. The gland is enclosed in a capsule derived from the cervical fascia, which attaches it to the larynx ; and it lies under cover of the depressor muscles of the larynx. The recurrent laryngeal nerve runs in the groove between the thyroid and the trachea. The arteries of supply—the superior and inferior thyroids — are very large for the size of the gland, and enter it at its four corners. The thyroidea ima, when present, goes to the isthmus. A process of gland tissue — the pyramidal lobe—frequently passes up the neck from the isthmus ; and several isolated nodules of thyroid tissue—accessory thyroids—are sometimes met with in different parts of the neck. These are liable to the same diseases as the main gland. The secretion of the gland is absorbed into the general circulation through the lymphatics and veins, and consists of a complex colloid substance, which plays an important part in maintaining the normal metabolism of the body, particularly of the central nervous and cutaneous tissues in adults, and of the growing bones in children. The want of the secretion plays some part in producing the diseases known as myxoedema and cretinism. The para-thyroid glands—usually two on each side—lie in the loose areolar tissue along the posterior edge of the lobes of the thyroid, and outside the capsule of the gland. They are flattened, elliptical bodies, averaging a quarter of an inch in length and an eighth of an inch in width, of a light brown colour, smooth and glistening on the surface, and of a soft, flabby consistence (W. G. MacCallum). The removal of these glands in the course of operations for goitre has been followed by symptoms of tetany. Physiological Hypersemia.—The thyroid varies greatly in size even within normal limits, and may become engorged and swollen from physiological causes, particularly in females. Before the onset of menstruation at puberty, for example, the thyroid frequently becomes253 ACUTE THYROIDITIS. engorged, and the enlargement may recur with each menstrual period for months or even years. During pregnancy also the gland may become swollen, and in some cases by the efforts of parturition the congestion is so much increased that dyspncea is produced. Other forms of muscular effort may produce similar effects. This condition is only of clinical importance in connection with the differential diagnosis of thyroid swellings, and inasmuch as repeated attacks of congestion are believed to play a part in the production of goitre. Acute Thyroiditis. — Acute inflammation may occur in a healthy thyroid or in one that is the seat of goitre, and may either end within a few days in resolution, or go on to suppura- tion. It is due to infection with pyogenic bacteria, which usually gain access to the gland by the blood-stream, as, for example, in typhoid fever, pyaemia, influenza and other acute infective diseases. Direct infection sometimes occurs from an abscess, a cellulitis, or a septic wound in the neck. It has also occurred from a foreign body impacted in the oesophagus ulcerating through and perforating the gland. One lobe is usually more involved than the other, but the condition may be general. When pus forms, it may be diffused throughout the gland, or may be collected into several small foci. Clinical Features.—The onset is sudden, and is sometimes marked by a rigor, and there is great pain, and a sensation of extreme tension in the front of the neck which causes the patient to flex the head. The temperature is raised, and other signs of fever are present. There is severe headache of a congestive nature, and sometimes vertigo. The swelling takes the shape of the thyroid, and is firm, tense and elastic; the skin is not red, but the subcutaneous veins are dilated. In severe cases there is pain and difficulty in swallowing, and dyspncea. When suppuration ensues, all the symptoms are aggravated, and repeated rigors occur. The pus may burst into the cellular tissue of the neck or into the air-passages or the oesophagus. Treatment.—In the non-suppurative stage, the ordinary treat- ment of acute inflammation is employed; if pus forms, the abscess should be opened by Hilton’s method and drained. Tuberculous and syphilitic affections of the thyroid are very rare. Goitre or Bronchocele. The term goitre is applied clinically to any non-inflammatory enlargement of the thyroid gland. Many varieties are recognised, although the distinction between them is not always well marked. For convenience of description they may be considered under254 THE THYROID GLAND. the headings: parenchymatous, adenomatous, malignant, and exophthalmic goitre. Parenchymatous Goitre. — Etiology. — Nothing definite is known regarding the causation of goitre. The disease is endemic in certain hilly districts in England—particularly Derbyshire and Gloucestershire—and in various parts of Scotland. It is exceedingly common in certain valleys in Swit- zerland. It is met with less frequently in men than in women, and it occurs chiefly during the child-bearing period of life. The condition has been at- tributed to a great variety of causes, in- cluding peculiarities in the soil, pollution of the drinking-water by decomposing vegetable material or by bacteria, deficiency of certain chemical constituents, particularly iodine, in the water, but the evi- dence on all these points is conflicting. It has also been suggested that the repeated congestion Fig. 71.—Parenchymatous Goitre in a the thyroid associ- woman set. 48. ated, for example, with menstruation and preg- nancy, with severe manual labour in a stooping posture, or with the carrying of weights on the head, plays a part in the pro- duction of goitre. In the parenchymatous variety both the secreting and the fibrous elements of the thyroid undergo hypertrophy, and the gland as a whole becomes enlarged, and forms a horseshoe- shaped swelling of moderate size in the neck. This swelling is soft, smooth or slightly lobulated on the surface, and is seldom quite symmetrical. In some cases the hypertrophy involves chiefly the isthmus. In others an outlying accessory lobule of thyroid tissue constitutes the bulk of the swelling, and thisPARENCHYMATOUS GOITRE. 255 may extend a considerable distance from the position of the normal thyroid, reaching even behind the sternum into the thorax—intra- thoracicor retrosternal goitre. When the secreting ' elements increase out of proportion to the stroma, numerous rounded or irregular spaces, filled with a thick, yellow, colloid material, are formed in the substance of the goitre—colloid goitre. The majority of these spaces are not larger than a pea, but one or more may enlarge and form cysts of consider- able size—cystic goitre. These varieties, especi- ally the cystic form, attain greater dimensions than any other form of goitre. When the fibrous stroma is greatly in excess—-fibrous goitre — the swelling is smaller, firmer, and sflows a greater tend- ency to contract and compress the trachea. If the sclerosis is ex- treme, and the secret- ory tissue undergoes atrophy, myxcedema may result. In some cases the hyperplasia affects chiefly the blood- vessels of the thyroid —vascular goitre. The capillaries, veins and arteries are increased in size and number, and the swelling pulsates, and increases in size when the patient makes any muscular effort. Haemorrhagic cysts frequently develop in the substance of these goitres. Flo. 73.—Section of Goitre shown in Fig. 72, to illustrate compression of Trachea. Fig. 72.—Larynx and Trachea surrounded by Goitre.THE THYROID GLAND. 256 When the swelling is unilateral, the larynx and trachea may be markedly displaced to the opposite side ; when bilateral, they may be compressed laterally so that the air-passage is reduced to a mere chink—scabbard trachea. The cartilages become softened so that the trachea may collapse under the weight of the goitre, giving rise to dyspnoea, which may be increased by swelling of the mucous membrane and accumulation of mucus in the tube. The shape of the trachea and its position in relation to a goitre can be demonstrated in a radiogram, and in this way valuable information may be obtained as to the portion of the gland that should be removed by operation. The large vessels of the neck also may be displaced outwards, as far even as the posterior triangle. In all varieties the skin is freely movable over the tumour, and the subcutaneous veins are usually large and prominent. The tumour can be moved transversely, carrying the larynx and trachea with it, but it cannot be moved vertically. It moves up and down with the larynx on deglutition—a point of great diagnostic value. It is important to observe that the symptoms produced by the goitre bear no constant ratio to the size of the tumour. In some cases the patient only complains of the disfigurement caused by the swelling. There is seldom pain, but as a rule there is more or less interference with respiration. It may only be shortness of breath on exertion, or the patient may suffer from sudden and severe attacks of dyspnoea, especially when lying on the back during sleep, and such an attack may prove fatal. This may be due to the weight of the tumour pressing on the trachea, which has been softened and distorted by the goitre, or to temporary congestion and engorgement of the mucous membrane of the air-passages. In these cases there is marked stridor both on inspiration and expiration, but no aphonia. In other cases the goitre presses upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve, causing spasmodic dyspnoea, hoarseness and aphonia from impaired movement of the vocal cords. The presence of these symptoms, especially if accompanied by pain, usually raises the suspicion of malignancy. Occasionally the oesophagus is pressed upon, and there is difficulty in swallowing. Among the less prominent symptoms are palpitation, sudden attacks of syncope, a feeling of fulness in the head, and giddiness. The occurrence of hsemorrage into the substance of the goitre or into a cyst, or an attack of inflammation, produces an aggrava- tion of all the symptoms. In intra-thoracic or retro-sternal goitre the tumour displaces257 PARENCHYMATOUS GOITRE. the trachea and causes dyspnoea, and there are occasional paroxysmal attacks of breathlessness, which may be mistaken for asthma, particularly as the patient is usually the subject also of bronchitis and emphysema. In some cases the patient can, by a violent expiratory effort, project the goitre upwards into the neck. When the goitre is fixed in the thorax, the clinical features are those of a mediastinal tumour with lateral displacement of the trachea, and engorgement of the veins of the neck. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment consists in administer- ing internally such drugs as iodine, potassium iodide, or iron and arsenic, and the local inunction of blue ointment or yellow iodide of mercury ointment. Kocher has obtained better results by the administration of pure phosphorus. The evidence regarding the benefit derived from the internal administration of thyroid extract is conflicting. Operative treatment is indicated when there are pressure symptoms, and in goitres which are steadily increasing in size. The risk of a goitre becoming malignant may also be a reason for removing it by operation. It is considered advisable to operate if, on making pressure on the goitre from side to side, the patient becomes breathless (Kocher). It is not justifiable to operate merely for the removal of the disfigurement caused by the swelling. The operation — thyroidectomy — consists in excising that portion of the thyroid which is causing pressure symptoms, and this usually involves removal of one-half of the gland. If the goitre is of moderate size, the transverse curved incision of Kocher, which affords free access and leaves an almost imper- ceptible scar, is the best. It is carried over the most prom- inent part of the swelling, and is prolonged farther upwards and backwards over the sterno-mastoid upon the side on which the disease is most marked. . The skin, platysma, and deep fascia are divided, the vessels being secured and ligatured before being cut. The depressor muscles of the hyoid thus exposed are hooked aside, or they may require to be divided, in which case they should be cut near to the hyoid bone to preserve their nerve-supply, and to give better access to the superior thyroid artery, and to ensure that when they are stitched the line of suture will lie at a different level from that of the skin incision (C. H. Mayo). In exposing ' the portion to be removed, the layers of connective tissue overlying it are carefully divided layer by layer until the actual substance of the goitre is reached. The lobe is then shelled out of its capsule, care being taken that VOL. II—17258 THE THYROID GLAND. all vessels are secured before being divided or torn. Special caution is necessary in dealing with the inferior thyroid artery on account of its close connection with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The isthmus is next isolated, and secured by a strong ligature as it is cut across, or crushed with a strong angiotribe. In separating the posterior edge of the thyroid from its attach- ment to the trachea, care must be taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerve as it passes beneath the lower border of the larynx ; and to ensure the safety of the nerve it is advisable to cut through the substance of the thyroid, and so leave behind the part of the gland that is attached to the trachea. The wound is then closed, a drainage tube being inserted through a small opening made for the purpose. Kocher’s angular incision begins over the sterno- mastoid muscle at the level of the thyroid cartilage on the side most affected, is carried to the middle line, and thence vertically downwards towards the sternum as far as may be necessary. Risks of the Operation.—The chief danger in operations for goitre is cardiac insufficiency, as evidenced by disturbed rhythm of the heart-beats, lowering of the blood pressure, or dilatation of the cavities of the heart (Kocher). As the administration of a general ansesthetic is attended with considerable risk, particularly when there is respiratory difficulty and when the tumour passes behind the sternum, it is advisable to perform the operation under local anaesthesia. In a large series of cases Charles Mayo has found the use of ether administered by the open method safe and satisfactory. This surgeon gives /Ah grain of morphine and y-g-yth grain of atropine half-an-hour before the operation. The risk of injuring the recurrent laryn- geal nerve has already been referred to. Care should be taken to avoid as far as possible tearing and squeezing the thyroid during the operation, as there is reason to believe that the absorption of large quantities of thyroid secretion from the divided surfaces gives rise to a condition known as acute thyroid- ism during the first few hours after operation. The symptoms of acute thyroidism are marked elevation of temperature, increase in the pulse-rate (150-200), rapid respiration with dyspnoea, flushing of the face, muscular twitchings, and mental excitement. The employment of a drainage tube for the first forty-eight hours after operation diminishes this risk. Tetany, as evidenced by the occurrence of cramp-like contractions of the fingers, may supervene within a few days of the operation, if one or more of the para-thyroids have been removed at the same time. On no account may the whole of the thyroid gland be removed,259 ADENOMATOUS GOITRE. as this is followed by the development of symptoms closely resembling those of myxoedema—operative myxoedema or cachexia strumipriva. Treatment of Sudden Dyspnoea.—When dyspnoea suddenly supervenes and threatens life, it is sometimes possible to relieve the pressure on the trachea by incising the deep fascia in the middle line of the neck, so as to relax the tension on the goitre. If this is insufficient the isthmus may be divided. Should Fig. 74.—Adenomatous Goitre, confined to isthmus, in a girl aged 16. relief not follow, tracheotomy must be performed, and a long tube or a large-sized gum-elastic catheter with a terminal aperture be passed into the trachea beyond the seat of obstruc- tion. Adenomatous Goitre.—In this variety the swelling of the thyroid is mainly due to the growth within its substance of one or more adenomata. The rest of the gland may be unaffected, or it may be the seat of a diffuse hypertrophy. The adenomata are surrounded by a capsule, and they vary greatly in size. Some are solid, others undergo cystic degeneration, the glandular260 THE THYROID GLAND. tissue being replaced by a quantity of clear or yellowish fluid, sometimes mixed with blood. The cysts thus formed may be unilocular or multilocular, and intra-cystic papillary vegetations frequently grow from their walls. The walls of the cysts may be thin, soft and flaccid, or thick and firm, or they may even be calcified. The thyroid is enlarged, and in its substance one or more firm, nodular tumours may be felt. When deeply placed they may not be palpable, yet they may give rise to serious symptoms by pressing on the air-passages, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, or the oesophagus. In a cystic adenoma fluctuation may be detected. Treatment.—As this variety is not amenable to medicinal measures, the only treatment is to enucleate the adenomatous nodules from the gland. The thyroid is exposed by a transverse curved incision, the tissue covering the nodule is incised, and the adenoma shelled out from its capsule. Malignant Goitre.—Carcinoma and Sarcoma are met with in the thyroid. The malignant disease usually develops in a gland that has been the seat of goitre for several years, although it may begin in a previously healthy gland. It is seldom possible to distinguish clinically between carcinoma and sarcoma. Clinical Features.—The tumour in the neck, if primarily malignant, is of recent development; if it is due to malignant disease engrafted on a pre-existing goitre there is a history of recent rapid increase in size. It is fixed and matted to its surroundings, and exhibits comparatively little movement on swallowing. It usually extends across the middle line from the lobe in which it originated, displacing the trachea and fre- quently overlapping it, so as to bury the air-passage completely. If the tumour tissue has actually penetrated into the trachea the expectoration is usually tinged with blood. Dysphagia is rarely a prominent symptom. If the recurrent laryngeal nerves are involved speech may be interfered with. The lymphatic glands are involved ; and metastases to the lungs and bones, particularly the skull and inferior maxilla, are common. When the goitre extends behind the sternum there is great respiratory embarrass- ment, the trachea is displaced to one side, and the veins of the neck and arm may be engorged. The patient is unable to lie down or to sleep ; there are violent paroxysms of coughing, and severe lancinating pains in the swelling. Death may take place suddenly from asphyxia, from heart failure, or from displace- ment of a thrombus from one of the veins in the neck. Treatment.—As it is only in the earliest stages that a malignant goitre can be successfully removed, operation shouldEXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE. 261 be recommended in all goitres which begin to grow rapidly, especially if the tumour is hard, irregular, and bossy, is fixed to its surroundings, and is accompanied by pain shooting towards the head and shoulders, and if there is enlargement of the lymphatic glands. In the later stages complete extirpation is not to be attempted, as it usually involves the removal of a portion of the trachea or oesophagus, and the operation frequently proves fatal. Operative interference is often called for, however, for the relief of respiratory embarrassment. Tracheotomy may prove a very difficult and dangerous procedure, owing to the trachea being buried under the goitre and displaced or narrowed by it, so that it is not easy to reach the trachea or to introduce an efficient tube beyond the point of obstruction. Cellulitis and fungation of the growth may complicate the after-treatment. A more certain and accurate method consists in exposing the goitre by an incision as for thyroidectomy, rapidly removing sufficient of the growth to expose the trachea ; it is then easy to open the air-passage and introduce a tube. If there is a retro- sternal prolongation compressing the trachea within the thorax, a long flexible lead tube may have to be passed beyond the site of the compression before the dyspnoea is relieved. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Graves’ or Basedow’s Disease.—This is essentially a medical affection, and in most cases is treated by medical measures. Among the more prominent symptoms are palpitation and irregular action of the heart, throbbing of the arteries of the head and neck, functional cardiac murmurs, anaemia, tremors, and excessive nervous excitability. The eyes are staring, the eyeballs are usually protruded from the orbit (Fig. 75), and when the patient looks from a higher to a lower object the upper lid lags behind the globe in its downward movement (von Graefe’s symptom), and other ocular symptoms are usually present. In the early stages the thyroid is usually enlarged and pulsatile, and bruits may be heard over it on auscultation; later, these vascular symptoms disappear and only a firm, diffuse, uniform swelling implicating all parts of the gland remains. In some cases the enlargement of the thyroid, and in others the eye symptoms, are scarcely appreciable, while the general symptoms are well marked. The disease has been variously attributed to excessive absorp- tion of thyroid secretion, and to lesions as yet undetermined in the cervical sympathetic ganglia or in the medulla. The affection is most common in women between the ages ofTHE THYROID GLAND. 262 twenty and forty, but it is also met with in men. It is frequently hereditary, and seems to be induced in many cases by overwork, worry, or severe nervous shock. Surgical Treatment.—Excision of one lobe of the thyroid has been followed in many cases by marked alleviation of the symptoms, and in a few by permanent cure. Before the operation is undertaken the patient should have absolute bodily and mental rest for a week or two, and should take small doses of iodine and of sodium phosphate (Kocher). Extract of bella- donna and exposure to the X-rays have been found useful by C. H. Mayo. Operations have been carried out on the cervical sympathetic cord, the three ganglia with their connect- ing nerve fibres being ex- Fig. 75.—Exophthalmic Goitre in a cised on both sides of the woman set. 33. neck. As the operation is a severe one, only one side should be operated on at a time. On the whole this operation is more difficult and dangerous than thyroidectomy, and it is not so conveniently performed under local anaesthesia. The presence of exophthalmic goitre may influence the question of operation in the treatment of other surgical condi- tions, and may determine the use of a local rather than a general anaesthetic.263 CHAPTER XVIII. THE (ESOPHAGUS. Surgical anatomy—-Methods of examination—Wounds—Swallowing of caustics — Impaction of foreign bodies — Rupture — Inflammatory affections : (Esophagitis; Peri-oesopliagitis; Tuberculosis; Syphilis— Varix—Cicatricial stricture—Malignant stricture—Spasmodic stric- ture—Paralysis—Malformations : Congenital; Acquired; Dilatation ; Diverticula. Surgical Anatomy. -Tlxe oesophagus extends from the level of the cricoid cartilage to about the level of the lower end of the sternum. For clinical purposes it is useful to remember that the distance from the upper incisor teeth to the commencement of the oesophagus is about five or six inches, and that the oesophagus measures from nine to ten inches. The whole distance, therefore, from the teeth to the stomach is from fourteen to sixteen inches. The cervical portion of the oesophagus, extending from the cricoid cartilage to the upper edge of the sternum, measures about two inches. It lies behind and to the left of the trachea, and in the groove between the gullet and the trachea on each side runs the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The thoracic portion is about seven inches long, and traverses the posterior mediastinum lying slightly to the left of the middle line. It is crossed by the left bronchus, and below this level has the pericardium immediately in front of it. The left pleura is closely related to the anterior surface of the oesophagus throughout, while the right pleura passes behind it in its lower part. This accounts for the frequency with which growths in the oesophagus invade the right pleura. The oesophagus passes through the diaphragm about an inch above the cardiac opening of the stomach. The narrowest parts of the oesophagus are its upper opening at the level of the cricoid, the point at which it is crossed by the left bronchus, and the point where it passes through the diaphragm. It is at these points that foreign bodies most frequently become impacted. Methods of Examination.—It is sometimes possible to detect an impacted foreign body or a distended diverticulum in the cervical por- tion of the oesophagus by palpation. New growths confined to the oesophagus cannot be felt from without, but if the tumour extends above the level of the cricoid and implicates the pharynx, it may form a palpable swelling behind the larynx. Introduction of Bougies.—(Esophageal bougies or probangs are used for diagnostic purposes in cases of suspected stricture, and to aid in the364 THE (ESOPHAGUS. detection of foreign bodies. Various forms are employed, of which the most generally useful are the conical-pointed gum-elastic or silk-web bougie, and the olive-lieaded metal bougie, consisting of a flexible whale- bone stem, to which one of a graduated series of aluminium or steel bulbs is screwed. For some purposes the sponge probang—which consists of a small round sponge fixed on a whalebone stem—is to be preferred. For the passage of an oesophageal bougie the patient should be seated on a chair with the head thrown back and supported from behind by an assistant. The bougie is lubricated with butter or glycerin, and is held like a pen. With the left forefinger the surgeon depresses the tongue while he passes the bougie to the back wall of the pharynx and guides it over the epiglottis. As soon as the instrument engages in the opening of the oesophagus, the patient usually hacks and coughs, but this stops in a few seconds, and if he is now directed to swallow, the instrument may be carried down the oesophagus, or can be passed on by gentle pressure. The spasm induced by the introduction of the instru- ment may sometimes be prevented by getting the patient to take full, deep breaths somewhat rapidly. Great gentleness must be exercised, and no attempt should be made to force the instrument past any obstruc- tion. The instrument may catch against the hyoid bone, and this may be mistaken for a stenosis of the gullet. Before passing bougies it is necessary to make certain that the symptoms are not due to the pressure of an aortic aneurysm on the oesophagus. Cases have been recorded in which a thin-walled aneurysm has been perforated by an oesophageal bougie. The existence of ulceration or suppuration also contra-indicates the use of bougies. It is to be borne in mind that in some cases the passage of a bougie may be attended with a considerable degree of shock, and cases are on record in which this has proved fatal without any gross lesion being found after death. The cesophagoscope—a form of speculum which enables the oesophagus to be illuminated by an electric lamp—is employed for the examination of tumours and strictures of the tube, and in the removal of foreign bodies. With its aid, also, it is possible to remove a portion of a growth for microscopic examination. In cases of stricture auscultation during deglutition sometimes aids the diagnosis. The stethoscope is placed at various points along the left side of the dorsal spine, and abnormal sounds may be heard as the fluid impinges against the stricture or trickles through it. For the detection and localisation of opaque foreign bodies the Rontgen rays are of great value. Wounds of the oesophagus inflicted from without, for example, stabs, cut-throat or gun-shot injuries, are comparatively rare, and are almost invariably accompanied by lesions of other important structures in the neck, which rapidly prove fatal. It is more common to meet with wounds inflicted from within, for example, by the swallowing of rough and irregularly shaped foreign bodies, or by unskilful attempts to remove such bodies or to pass bougies along the oesophagus. The severity of the lesion varies from a scratch of the mucous membrane to a com- plete perforation of the tube. The less severe injuries are265 WOUNDS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. attended with slight pain on swallowing and a sensation as if something had lodged in the oesophagus. In more severe cases there is bleeding, followed by attacks of coughing and expectora- tion of blood-stained mucus. When the oesophagus is perforated, diffuse cellulitis of the neck or of the posterior mediastinum may ensue. In the treatment of these injuries the chief point is to give the oesophagus rest by feeding the patient entirely by the rectum. Swallowing of Corrosive Substances.—The oesophagus is frequently damaged by the swallowing of strong chemicals, such as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, carbolic acid, or caustic potash. These substances usually produce their worst effects at the two ends of the oesophagus, but in some cases the whole length of the tube suffers. The mucous membrane alone may be destroyed, or the muscular and even the fibrous coats may also be implicated. The damaged tissue undergoes necrosis, and when the sloughs separate, raw surfaces are left, and. are very slow to heal. If not rapidly fatal from shock and concomitant lesions of the air-passages, these injuries are usually attended with intense pain, severe thirst, and vomiting of blood. Shreds of mucous membrane of varying size are often ejected in the vomit. There is pain on swallowing, and not infrequently complications such as cellulitis, perforation of the oesophagus, or peri-oesophageal abscess follow. Later, cicatricial contraction takes place at the injured portions, producing one of the most intractable forms of fibrous stricture. The treatment consists in administering fluids that will neutralise the poison taken, for example, solutions of carbonate of potash, of soda, or of magnesia when an acid has been swallowed, or vinegar diluted with water in the case of an alkali. When carbolic acid has been swallowed, the patient should have a large quantity of olive oil administered. The stomach should be washed out with a copious stream of water, the stomach tube being passed with the greatest gentleness to avoid perforating the softened oesophageal wall. Subsequently the patient should be fed for some days by the rectum. As soon as the ulceration of the oesophagus has healed, say in three or four weeks, conical gum-elastic bougies should be passed every three or four days to prevent cicatricial contraction. As the calibre of the tube is restored, the instruments may be passed less frequently, but for some years—it may be for the rest of the patient’s life — a full-sized bougie should be passed at least once a month. Impaction of Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus.—ForeignTHE OESOPHAGUS. 266 bodies, such as imperfectly masticated portions of meat, frag- ments of bone, coins, pins, or artificial tooth-plates, are frequently impacted in the pharynx or in the oesophagus. For obvious reasons the accident is most liable to occur in children, lunatics, and those who are under the influence of alcohol. It some- times happens also during the administration of anaesthetics, if the patient vomits solid substances. The object is most likely to lodge at one or other of the points where the tube is normally constricted. Clinical Features.—If a large bolus of unmasticated food becomes impacted in the pharynx it blocks the openings of both the oesophagus and the larynx, and the patient may, without manifesting any signs of suffocation, suddenly fall back dead, and, if he happens to be alone at the time of the accident, the cause of death is liable to be overlooked unless the pharynx is opened up at the post-mortem examination. When the object is of irregular shape, for example, a large tooth-plate, it is most likely to lodge in the pharynx, obstructing the openings of both the oesophagus and the larynx, and giving rise to sudden suffoca- tion, which may rapidly prove fatal. The patient is immediately asphyxiated, the face becomes blue and engorged, and violent efforts are made to eject the object by retching and coughing. The object can usually be seen through the mouth and touched with the finger. Smaller bodies, such as coins, bones, or pins, usually enter the oesophagus. The patient has sudden pain at the point of im- paction, which is increased on attempting to swallow, the face becomes congested, and severe retching and coughing are set up. Even after the foreign body has been ejected, the patient has for some considerable time the sensation that it is still present. This may be due to a scratch of the mucous membrane, in which case the swallowing of a few drops of cocain solution will cause the sensation to disappear, or it may be due to spasm of the gullet set up by the irritation. The position of foreign bodies in the oesophagus may be determined by external palpation, or by the careful use of an olive-headed metal bougie. In children, coins are nearly always arrested at the level of the upper end of the sternum. The obstruction to the passage of food may be partial or complete, according to the shape of the body and the manner in which it is impacted. Irregular bodies, such as tootli-plates, may become fixed by sharp edges or hooks piercing the mucous membrane, and may lie in such a way that they arrest solids but allow fluids to pass. Valuable information may be obtained as to theFOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. 267 shape, site, and mode of impaction by the use of the fluorescent screen, or by taking X-ray photographs. The oesophagoscope is also of great value, both for diagnostic purposes and as an aid in the removal of the impacted body. The impaction of foreign bodies may be followed by various complications ; for example, ulceration and perforation of the wall of the oesophagus, leading to septic cellulitis of the neck or mediastinum ; perforation of the air-passages, leading to septic pneumonia; injury of the thyroid gland, setting up acute sup- Fig. 76.—Radiogram of Safety-pin impacted in the Gullet and perforating the Larynx. (Professor Annandale’s case.) (Radiogram by Dr. Dawson Tamer.) purative thyroiditis ; or perforation or erosion of the large vessels of the neck, giving rise to fatal Inemorrhage. Treatment.—When the object is impacted in the pharynx and is causing suffocation, the mouth must be forced open by an extemporised gag, the finger passed into the back of the throat, and the body hooked out. If this is impossible, and if suitable forceps are not at hand, it may be necessary at once to perform laryngotomy to enable the patient to breathe. The body should then be removed with pharyngeal forceps. When the foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus theTHE CESOPHAGUS. 268 symptoms are less urgent, and there is time to investigate the condition and to make suitable arrangements for dealing with it. In this connection it may be mentioned that drunkards frequently suffer from a form of spasm of the oesophagus, which simulates clinically the impaction of a foreign body, and this fact should be borne in mind, as it may prevent needless search being made for bodies that have not been swallowed. The measures adopted vary with the nature of the body, its site, and the way in which it is impacted. A bolus of food, for example, or a small smooth object that is likely to pass safely along the alimentary canal, if it cannot be extracted with forceps, may be pushed on into the stomach by the aid of a bulbous-headed or sponge probang. This must be done very gently, especially if the body has been impacted for any length of time, as the inflammatory softening of the oesophageal wall may predispose to rupture. Small, sharp, or irregular objects, such as fish bones, tacks, or pins, may be dislodged by the “ umbrella probang ”—an instru- ment which, after being passed beyond the foreign body, is expanded into the form of a circular brush which carries the foreign body out among its bristles. Coins usually lodge edgewise in the oesophagus, and are best removed by means of a special instrument known as a “ coin-catcher,” which is passed beyond the coin, and on being withdrawn catches it in a specially constructed flange. In emergencies a loop of stout silver wire bent so as to form a hook makes an excellent substitute for a coin-catcher. The removal of solid objects is greatly facilitated by carrying out the manipulations in the dark room with the aid of the X-rays and the fluorescent screen ; in difficult cases the oesophago- scope may be used. Irregular bodies with projecting edges or hooks, such as tooth-plates, tend to catch in the mucous membrane, and attempts to withdraw them by forceps or other instruments are liable to cause laceration of the oesophagus. When situated in the cervical part of the oesophagus these should be removed by the operation of oesophagotomy. An incision three or four inches long is made a little in front of the anterior edge of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. The trachea and the carotid sheath having been exposed and separated from one another, the oesophagus is palpated, a bougie having first been passed through the mouth to facilitate its recognition and to aid in localising the foreign body. The oesophagus is then opened in its long axis, rather towards its posterior aspect, to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve (which269 GESOPHAGOTOMY. on the left side lies in front of the oesophagus), and, after the foreign body has been removed, is sutured with chromic gut. Lest there should be leakage subsequently, the wound in the neck should be left open to admit of free drainage. For the first few days after operation the patient is fed by the rectum, and for a few days more through a soft tube passed into the stomach. After this he may have fluids and soft solids by the mouth. If the foreign body is lodged near the lower end of the oesophagus, it may be necessary to perform gastrotoyny, making an opening in the anterior wall of the stomach large enough to admit suitable forceps, or, if necessary, the whole hand, in order that the body may be extracted by this route. When the body is impacted half-way down the oesophagus the condition is most serious, as it may not be within reach of an opening in either the oesophagus or the stomach. Under these conditions it is best to perform gastrostomy, to enable the patient to be fed, and to rest the oesophagus and allow of relaxation of spasm so that the body may pass on into the stomach. Attempts have been made to remove such bodies by the operation of mediastinal oesophagotomy, which consists in resecting portions of several ribs close to the left of the spine, pushing aside the pleura, and opening the oesophagus, but these have usually proved fatal. Rupture of the oesophagus has been described as occurring during violent attempts to eject a foreign body by vomiting, and as a result of diseased conditions of the oesophageal wall. The accident is, however, very rare, and has usually proved fatal by setting up left-sided empyema or cellulitis. Inflammatory affections of the oesophagus due to pyogenic infection (oesophagitis), and of the cellular tissue around it (peri-oesophagitis), are rare apart from those forms due to the swallowing of caustics and to direct injury of the walls of the tube by foreign bodies. A chronic form of oesophagitis occasionally occurs above a stricture and in alcoholic subjects. It is attended with severe pain and difficulty on deglutition, and attacks of vomiting. Tuberculous lesions also are occasionally met with. They are usually the result of direct spread from the bronchial glands, and the most prominent symptoms are pain during and after taking food, dysphagia, vomiting, and sometimes severe hsema- temesis. These symptoms are most marked when the condition has gone on to ulceration, and the disease is liable to be mistaken either for gastric ulcer or for cancer of the oesophagus.270 THE OESOPHAGUS. The oesophagus is sometimes invaded by the spread of tubercu- lous disease from the larynx. Syphilitic affections of the oesophagus are rare, and give rise to symptoms similar to those of tubercle. Varix of the veins of the lower end of the oesophagus occasionally occurs in cases of cirrhosis of the liver. The only surgical interest attaching to the condition is that it may give rise to severe haematemesis, and is therefore liable to be mistaken for gastric ulcer. Cicatricial Stricture.—The commonest and most serious form of cicatricial or fibrous stricture of the oesophagus is that which follow's the swallowing of caustics. The narrowing is usually most marked at the upper or at the lower end of the oesophagus, but several contractions may be met with along the tube, or it may even be stenosed throughout its whole length. The strictures may be circular, linear, or irregular, and the opening is often eccentric, rendering the tube tortuous and the passage of instruments exceedingly difficult. Less frequently a stricture results from injury caused by an impacted foreign body, or in extracting it by operation or other- wise. In such cases the stricture is usually in the middle part or at the upper end of the tube. Localised thickening of the walls, producing a certain degree of stenosis, sometimes follows the healing of a syphilitic gumma or an ulcer, and is also said to occur as a result of habitual drinking of raw spirits. Clinical Features.-—The most prominent symptom is a gradually increasing difficulty in swallowdng, which may come on months or years after the accident. At first the patient observes that he requires to add fluids to his solid food in order to swallow it with ease. Later he is unable to swallow solids, and finally has difficulty even with fluids. He is usually able to indicate the point at which he feels the food suddenly stop in its passage along the oesophagus. The difficulty may be temporarily aggravated by spasm of the muscles, or by congestion of the mucous membrane. In the later stages regurgitation of unaltered food occurs, immediately after swallowing when the stricture is high up in the oesophagus, after a varying interval when it is near the lower end. Between meals the patient hawks up a quantity of viscid saliva mixed with mucus. There is pain, referred to the epigastrium or between the shoulder-blades, especially if there is ulceration above the stricture and the patient attempts to force the food through. The patient suffers greatly from hunger and thirst, and progressively emaciates, even to the verge of271 CICATRICIAL STRICTURE. actual starvation. Ulceration of the mucous membrane may occur above the stricture, and terminate in perforation, which is followed by septic cellulitis. The diagnosis is made by a consideration of the history, and may be confirmed by the use of oesophageal bougies, or by administering an emulsion of bismuth and taking an X-ray photo- graph. By beginning with a full-sized olive-headed bougie and passing smaller and smaller instruments until the whole length of the oesophagus has been explored, the site, number, size, and shape of the strictures may be learned. Treatment.—Before an attempt is made to dilate the stricture by bougies, the patient should be laid up in bed for a few days, and fed upon bland fluid diet or by enemata, to diminish con- gestion and allay spasm of the muscular coat. In nervous subjects it is often found that the bougies are more easily passed if they are taken unawares, as, when they are previously warned, a spasm is induced which adds to the difficulty. If the stricture is only moderately tight, it may be dilated by graduated bougies passed every third or fourth day till the normal calibre is restored, after which a full-sized instrument should be passed at least once a month for the rest of the patient’s life. In resilient stricture the method of continuous dilatation is to be preferred. A Symond’s intubation tube is passed through the stricture and left in place for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, by which time the stricture is sufficiently dilated to admit of a larger tube being introduced. Larger and larger tubes are passed until the calibre of the oesophagus is restored. During the treatment the patient is fed through the tube. Any attempt to divide the stricture from within by shielded knives (internal aesophagotomy) is not to be recommended on account of the risk of septic cellulitis. If it is impossible to pass any instrument from the mouth, more direct access may be obtained by opening the oesophagus in the neck. In cases of impermeable stricture near the lower end of the oesophagus, the stomach should be opened and retrograde dilatation practised. A series of bougies are passed from below till the stricture is sufficiently dilated to permit of the passage of an oesophageal tube from the mouth. This is then fixed in position and the stomach wound closed. The tube is left in for a week or ten days, and graduated bougies are passed periodically. Another method, suggested by Abbe, consists in performingTHE (ESOPHAGUS. 272 a preliminary gastrostomy, passing a bougie up the oesophagus to the mouth, with a stout silk string attached, and securing the end of the string, which is then used as a saw with which to divide the stricture. A larger bougie is then passed, either from the mouth or from the stomach, and fixed in position, and after the lumen has been restored the stomach is closed. If none of these measures succeed gastrostomy must be performed, and the patient fed through the fistula. This opening- need not be permanent, as it frequently happens that the rest afforded to the oesophagus so far diminishes congestion and spasm that a bougie can be passed. The stricture may then be dilated and the opening in the stomach allowed to close. Carcinoma of the (Esophagus—Malignant Stricture.— Carcinoma is by far the most common variety of malignant disease met with in the oesophagus, and is also the most common cause of dysphagia. The tumour is nearly always a squamous epithelioma. Carcinoma implicating the lower part of the pharynx and the upper part of the oesophagus is not uncommon, particularly in women. It tends to spread to the larynx, and forms a swelling in the neck which can usually be distinctly felt behind the larynx. When confined to the oesophagus the disease usually occurs in males between the ages of forty and sixty, and its appearance in most cases seems to be associated with some chronic form of local irritation, such, for example, as chronic oesophagitis, the habitual use of raw spirits, hot fluids, or irritating foods, or the presence of a cicatricial stricture. The disease may appear at any part of the oesophagus, but in about 80 per cent, of cases the lower third is affected, and when the lower aperture is involved the condition is indis- tinguishable from cancer of the cardiac end of the stomach. Not infrequently there is more than one focus of disease. The growth usually spreads over a considerable area of the wall before it completely encircles the tube, so that for a considerable time the canal remains permeable. The cancer tends to invade surrounding structures, such as the pleura, trachea, bronchi, and large blood-vessels. The vagus and recurrent laryngeal nerves also may be implicated. The bronchial and cervical lymphatic glands are usually infected, but unless the cardiac end of the stomach is implicated the disease does not spread by metastasis to the internal organs. Clinical Features.—In their general characters the clinical features resemble those of cicatricial stricture. Dysphagia is the most prominent symptom. It usually comes on gradually,CARCINOMA OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 273 but in some cases is quite sudden in onset, and it is more often intermittent in cancerous than in simple stenosis. This is due to a temporary diminution of congestion and relaxation of spasm, which play an important part in causing the dysphagia. Some- times the power of swallowing is temporarily improved by ulceration taking place, or by a projecting portion of the growth being displaced. There is regurgitation of food, which is mixed with blood and discharge from the ulcerated surface. In some cases there is actual vomiting of the stomach contents, which adds greatly to the patient’s discomfort. There is excessive salivation, and as the patient cannot swallow the saliva he has constantly to expectorate. Sharp lancinating pain is usually complained of behind the sternum, in the epigastrium, or between the shoulders. The patient seldom complains of actual hunger, even when the amount of food entering the stomach is exceedingly small. Persistent cough and dyspnoea are present when the tumour invades the air-passages ; when the recurrent laryngeal nerve is implicated there is cough, hoarseness of the voice, and aphonia. Severe and even fatal haemorrhage may follow the erosion of large blood-vessels. Ulceration may take place into the left pleural cavity and set up empyema. The patient emaciates out of all proportion to the interfer- ence with the taking of food, and usually dies within twelve I months of the onset of symptoms from starvation, septic absorption, or left-sided empyema. The diagnosis may be confirmed by the use of a bougie, but gi’eat care is necessary in passing the instrument lest the wall I of the oesophagus be perforated. Auscultation over the left side of the spine while fluids are swallowed may be of some value in diagnosis. Treatment.—Removal of the malignant disease is impossible except in cases in which it is seated in the upper end of the tube. The treatment, therefore, is directed towards securing that the patient shall have sufficient nourishment and be relieved of suffering. The systematic use of bougies to dilate the stricture and permit of the patient swallowing food and saliva is attended with considerable risk, and is not to be recommended. Intubation.—In suitable cases — that is, cases in which the disease is low down in the oesophagus and the lumen is not excessively small—the introduction of a short Symond’s tube may give great relief for a time, by enabling the patient to swallow food and saliva. The tube is made of gum-elastic and VOL. II—18274 THE (ESOPHAGUS. measures about six inches in length, the calibre varying with the size of the stricture. The upper end is funnel-shaped, while the lower end has a terminal aperture. The tube is passed beyond the stricture by means of a special whalebone guide, the expanded upper end resting on the face of the stricture and preventing it passing right through. For further security against its being swallowed, and to facilitate its withdrawal, silk threads are attached to the upper end of the tube, brought out through the mouth, and attached to the cheek or ear. To pre- vent the thread being bitten through it should be passed between two sound teeth. The tube should be removed and cleaned once in two or three weeks. In a large proportion of cases it becomes necessary to perform gastrostomy, and this should be done as soon as the patient has difficulty in swallowing fluids and begins to suffer in his general health from want of food. The operation is a simple one, and may be performed under local ansesthesia. It usually prolongs life for about three months, but we have known a patient to live for over two years after the operation. Other tumours of the oesophagus — myomata, fibromata, adenomata, cysts, and sarcomata—are so rare as not to call for further mention. Spasm of the oesophagus, cesophagismus or spasmodic stricture, is a condition in which the lumen of the tube is temporarily narrowed by spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat without any discoverable organic lesion. It most fre- quently occurs in neurotic women, and is probably in many cases of the nature of a reflex contraction set up by irritation of some branch of the vagus. In a considerable number of cases it has been associated with cancer of the liver. It is occasionally met with in habitual drunkards, and may give rise to symptoms that closely simulate those of an impacted foreign body. Paget has described under the name of “ stammering with the oesophagus ” an allied condition in which the patient occasionally has great difficulty in swallowing, especially when excited and in company. The dysphagia associated with cesophagismus is intermittent, the attacks coming on suddenly, often in the middle of a meal, particularly when the patient is excited. It is characteristic of the condition that a full-sized bougie can be passed at one time, but is arrested at another. The treatment is mainly medicinal, antispasmodic drugs, such as belladonna and bromides, being especially useful. A full-sized bougie may be passed occasion- ally with benefit. Spasm of the cardiac end of the stomach— cardiospasm—is described later.275 DIVERTICULA OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Paralysis of the oesophagus sometimes occurs after diphtheria., and in the course of certain diseases of the central nervous system. The difficulty of swallowing may be temporarily relieved by feeding the patient through a tube. Malformations. — Congenital Malformations—such as im- perforate gullet, stricture, diverticulum, or fistulous communica- tion between the oesophagus and the trachea—are rare, and are ■seldom within the reach of surgical treatment. Acquired Malformations.—Two forms are recognised—general dilatation and diverticula. General circumferential dilatation of the oesophagus is sometimes met with; it is associated with paralysis of the muscular coat of the oesophagus, with cardio-spasm, or occurs above an organic stricture. Diverticula. — A diverticulum may form on the gullet from a localised weaken- ing of the wall which admits of it gradu- ally stretching, or it may be produced by traction on the tube from without. When due to pressure from within, the diverticulum or pouch is usually situated at the junction of the pharynx with the oesophagus. At this level the posterior wall of the canal is normally weak, and the pressure on this area causes it to bulge so that a pouch is gradually formed. All the coats of the gullet may enter into the formation of the pouch, or the mucous *IG’ If — Diverticulum coat maybe herniated through the mus- its junction with the cular. The opening is situated at the pharynx, pharyngo - oesophageal junction, at the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the pouch hangs down alongside the gullet as a pear-shaped sac, varying in length from one to live or six inches. As it increases in size it presses on the gullet and so causes dysphagia. Less frequently a diverticulum forms in the middle portion of the oesophagus, about eight or ten inches from the teeth. Clinical Features.—In most cases the condition has first attracted attention in men above forty years of age, and the patient has usually been in the habit of bolting his food. Dysphagia and regurgitation of food are the most prominent symptoms. The length of time the food remains in the oesophagus varies greatly.276 THE (ESOPHAGUS. In some cases it is returned almost immediately after being swallowed ; in other cases it collects for hours, or even days, before being returned. The regurgitation is distinguished from true vomiting of stomach contents by the fact that the material brought up is free of pepsin and hydrochloric acid, and by observing that articles of food, taken it may be some days before, are returned unaltered. When the food lodges for any length of time it undergoes decomposition, and the patient’s breath becomes offensive. Eructations of this decomposed material add greatly to the patient’s discomfort. When a diverticulum is present the patient has a peculiar sense of oppression in the region where the food accumu- lates, and in many cases a distinct swelling can be recognised in the neck after the patient has taken a meal. Pressure over this swelling may cause the food to regurgitate into the mouth. It is sometimes possible to pass one oesophageal tube into the diverti- culum and another into the stomach. The oesophagoscope has proved helpful in diagnosis. In several cases the diagnosis has been verified by filling the pouch with an emulsion of bismuth and then taking a radiogram, the pouch showing as a dark shadow. Foreign bodies are liable to lodge in the pouch and cause ulceration, and even perforation. Treatment.—The palliative treatment consists in carefully regulating the diet, and in some cases it is advisable to feed the patient through a tube passed into the stomach. Irrigation of the sac with antiseptics has given relief in some cases. The operative treatment consists in excising the diverticulum through an incision in the neck similar to that made for oesophagotomy (Butlin). The opening in the oesophagus is closed by Lembert sutures, and the external wound drained. Diverticula produced by traction from without are usually on the anterior aspect of the gullet about the level of the bifurcation of the trachea. They are seldom larger than a hazel-nut, are funnel-shaped, with the apex directed upwards, forwards, and towards the side. They are probably due to the cicatricial contraction of tuberculous bronchial glands which have become adherent to the gullet (Rokitanski). As a rule they give rise to no symptoms, and are only discovered accidentally after death.277 CHAPTER XIX. THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. Examination of the larynx—Operations on the air-passages : Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy; Thyrotomy; Laryngotomy; Tracheotomy; Intubation of the largnx; Laryngectomy—Cardinal Symptoms of Laryngeal Affections: (1) Interference with the voice: Hoarseness; Aphonia —(2) Dysphagia — (3) Interference with respiration : Diphtheritic laryngitis ; Acute oedema of the larynx; Bilateral abductor paralysis; Syphilitic affections; Tuberculosis—Tumours: Papilloma; Epithe- lioma; Sarcoma—Foreign bodies in the air - passages : In the pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi. Examination of the Larynx.—For this purpose the examiner requires a laryngeal reflector with forehead attachment, one or two sizes of laryngeal mirror, a tongue cloth, and the means of obtaining good illumination. The source of light should be by preference placed opposite to and on the same plane with the patient’s left ear. The forehead reflector is placed over the observer’s right eye so that he may look through the central aperture, while at the same time he throws a good circle of light into the patient’s mouth. The patient should be seated with the head thrown slightly back ; the tongue is protruded and covered with the cloth, and held lightly but firmly between the finger and thumb of the left hand. A full-sized mirror, warmed so as to prevent the con- densation of the breath upon it, is inserted with the reflecting surface turned downwards, and pressed gently against the soft palate so as to push that structure upwards. The handle of the instrument is carried towards the left angle of the mouth and is somewhat depressed. By slightly altering the plane of the reflecting surface of the mirror the different parts of the larynx are in turn brought under inspection. The movements of the vocal cords should be observed during both respiration and plionation. For the latter purpose the patient should be directed to phonate the vowel sound “eh.” In addition to these movements the general appearance of the larynx should be observed, and any deviations from the normal noted. In the upper part of the mirror the epiglottis usually comes first into view. It is of a pinkish yellow colour, and presents a thin, sharply- defined free margin. In front of the epiglottis are the median and lateral glosso-epiglottic folds passing forwards to the base of the tongue, and enclosing the two valleculae. Extending backwards and downwards278 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. from the lateral margins of the epiglottis are the two ary-epiglottic folds which reach the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly. Between the two layers of mucous membrane of which the ary-epiglottic folds are com- posed are the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. Situated in the interval between the two arytenoid cartilages is the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane, which forms the upper margin of the posterior wall of the larynx. This structure, along with the ary-epiglottic folds laterally and the epiglottis in front, constitutes the boundary of the upper aperture of the larynx. In the interior of the larynx the true vocal cords form the most prominent features, being conspicuous as two hat white bands. The vocal cords form the boundary of the rima glottidis or glottic chink. Above each true cord, and parallel with it, the false cord or ventricular band is evident as a pink fold of mucous membrane. Between the false and true cord on each side is a linear interval, which indicates the entrance to the ventricle of Morgagni. Direct Laryngoscopy.—The larynx may also be examined by the direct method by means of Kirstein’s tube-spatula. After cocainisation of the base of the tongue, the soft palate, and the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the patient is seated upon a low stool and his head supported by an assistant. The light is obtained from a small lamp in the handle of the instrument. The spatula is warmed and introduced under the guidance of the eye, its end being passed over the epiglottis, and pressure exerted so as to draw the latter structure forward. The interior of the larynx may thus be brought into view for purposes of diagnosis or operation. In children a general anesthetic is required, and the examination is made with the head hanging over the end of the table. Tracheoscopy and Bronchoscopy.—Direct examination of the trachea and larger bronchi may be carried out in a similar way, by passing through the mouth and larynx metal tubes, after the method devised by Killian. This procedure is described as direct upper tracheoscopy and bronchoscopy. The examination nuj also be made through a tracheotomy wound—direct lower tracheoscopy. These procedures have proved of great service in the recognition of foreign bodies in the lower air-passages, and in their extraction ; in the diagnosis of stenosis of the trachea ; and in cases of aneurysm pressing on the trachea. Operations on the Air-Passages. Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy consists in opening the pharynx by means of a mesial, vertical incision carried through the thyro- hyoid membrane. It is performed for the removal of foreign bodies and new growths in the vicinity of the upper aperture of the larynx. If additional room is required, for example in the case of tumours involving the epiglottis, the incision may be extended to the symphysis menti and the hyoid bone divided in the middle line — trans-hyoid pharyngotomy. It is usually necessary to perform a preliminary tracheotomy, to prevent blood entering the air-passages, and to diminish the risk from oedema of the glottis.279 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-PASSAGES. Thyrotomy consists in splitting the thyroid cartilage in the middle line for the removal of papillomata or of foreign bodies from the interior of the larynx, or for exploration in cases of cancer. It is also the best procedure in the treatment of cases of intrinsic laryngeal cancer. A mesial incision is made from the hyoid bone to the cricoid cartilage, the muscles are separated, and the thyroid split longitudinally. After completing the intra-laryngeal part of the operation, the two halves of the cartilage are sutured in position, special care being taken to approximate accurately the vocal cords in order to avoid interference with phonation; the stitches should not penetrate the whole thickness of the cartilage. A preliminary tracheotomy is usually advisable, but the tube need not be worn for more than twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Laryngotomy consists in opening the larynx below the glottis by dividing the crico-thyroid membrane. It is performed as an emergency operation in cases of sudden asphyxia, induced, for example, by the impaction of a foreign body, or by spasm or oedema of the larynx; and as a preliminary to operations on the mouth or throat, with a view to diminishing the risk of blood entering the air-passages. A vertical mesial incision, about an inch and a half long, is made so as to expose the membrane; the edges of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are separated, and a transverse incision carried through the membrane close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to avoid injuring the crico-thyroid arteries, which cross the membrane at a higher level. The opening is held open by the handle of the knife or by forceps until a short oval tube is inserted. In children the available space is so small that it may be necessary to divide the cricoid cartilage and one or two rings of the trachea to admit of the tube being introduced. Tracheotomy is the operation of choice for the relief of laryngeal obstruction. It is frequently employed also as a preliminary measure in severe operations on the mouth and larynx, to enable steps to be taken to prevent blood and dis- charges entering the air-passages, and to facilitate the administra- tion of the amesthetic. The trachea may be opened either above or below the thyroid isthmus, which usually covers the second, third, and fourth tracheal rings. The high operation is to be pre- ferred as a rule, being more easily performed, and attended with less risk from haemorrhage and from septic complications in the connective-tissue planes of the neck. The loiv opera- tion is indicated, however, in cases of malignant disease of the280 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. larynx, and for the removal of foreign bodies from the bronchi. The essential steps of the two operations are the same. In children it is usually advisable to administer a general anaesthetic, but this must be done with great care, as the dyspnoea may suddenly become extreme and necessitate the operation being rapidly completed. In adults the operation can usually be performed under local anaesthesia. A roller pillow is placed beneath the neck to put the parts on the stretch, and an incision is carried from the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage downwards for about two inches. The sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids are separated ; the cross branch between the anterior jugular veins, and any other veins met with, secured with forceps before being divided; and the trachea exposed by dividing transversely the layer of deep fascia which passes from the cricoid to the isthmus of the thyroid. If the isthmus cannot be pulled downwards sufficiently it may be divided in the middle line. All active bleeding having been arrested, the larynx is steadied by inserting a sharp hook into the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, and the trachea is opened by thrusting a short, broad-bladed knife through the exposed rings. The back of the knife should be directed downwards, and the opening in the trachea enlarged upwards sufficiently to admit the tracheotomy tube. In children it is sometimes found necessary to divide the cricoid for this purpose (laryngo- tracheotomy). The slit in the trachea is then opened up with a tracheal dilator, and the outer tube inserted and fixed in position with tapes. The inner tube is not fixed, so that it may be coughed out if it becomes blocked, and that it may be frequently removed and cleaned by the nurse. The tube should be discarded as soon as the patient is able to breathe by the natural channel. Intubation of the Larynx. — This procedure is employed as a substitute for tracheotomy, especially in children suffering from membranous and oedematous forms of laryngitis. As experience is required to carry out the manipulations success- fully, and as its use is attended witli certain risks which necessitate that the surgeon should be constantly within call, the operation is more adapted to hospital than to private practice. O’Dwyer’s apparatus is that most generally employed. The operation consists in introducing through the glottis, by means of a specially constructed guide, a small metal or vulcanite tube furnished with a shoulder which rests against the false vocal cords. The part of the tube which passes beyond the true vocal cords is bulged to prevent it being coughed out.SYMPTOMS OF LARYNGEAL AFFECTIONS. 281 In an emergency a gum-elastic catheter with a terminal aper- ture may be passed, as recommended by Macewen and Annandale. Laryngectomy is described at p. 287. Cardinal Symptoms of Laryngeal Affections. The cardinal symptoms of laryngeal affections are interference with the voice, pain on swallowing, and interference with respira- tion. Laryngeal cough of a croupy or barking character may be present, and is usually associated with a lesion of the posterior wall or inter-arytenoid fold. Hiemoptysis is seldom of laryngeal origin, and unless the bleeding spot is visible in the mirror, the source of the bleeding is much more likely to be in the bronchi or lungs. Interference with the Voice. — Hoarseness is due to an affection of the vocal cords, and may be of inflammatory origin, as in simple laryngitis, or due to some specific cause, such as tuberculosis or syphilis. It may arise also from such conditions as prevent the proper approximation of the vocal cords, as in tumours and certain forms of paralysis. Huskiness of voice occurring in a middle-aged person, lasting for a considerable period, and unattended by any other local or constitutional symptom, should always arouse suspicion of malignant disease, and calls for an examination of the larynx. Should this reveal a congested condition of one vocal cord, associated with some infiltration, and should the mobility of the cord be impaired, suspicion of the malignant character of the affection is still further increased. The hoarseness in these cases is sometimes greater than the local appearances would seem to account for. Aphonia, or loss of voice, sudden in origin, and sometimes transient, frequently occurs in women, and is usually func- tional or hysterical in nature. Although the patient is unable to speak she is quite able to cough and to laugh. In these cases there is a bilateral paralysis of the adductor muscles, so that the cords do not approximate on attempted phonation ; or the internal tensors may be paretic, leaving an elliptical space between the cords on attempted phonation. If the arytenoideus muscle alone is paralysed a triangular interval is left between the cords posteriorly. There is no inflammation or other evidence of local disease. The treatment of functional aphonia should be general and local; tonics such as strychnin, iron, and arsenic should be administered; the intra-laryngeal application of electricity usually effects a sudden cure. In obstinate cases the use of the282 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. shower-bath and cold douching, the administration of chloroform, and even hypnotism may be tried. An examination of the lungs should be made in all cases of adductor paralysis, as this functional condition may be met with in early pulmonary tuberculosis. Dysphagia.—Pain on swallowing, due to causes originating in the larynx, is usually associated with ulceration of the mucous membrane covering the epiglottis, ary-epiglottic folds, or arytenoid cartilages, that is, in connection with those parts with which the food is brought into direct contact. The most frequent causes of such ulceration are tubercle, syphilis, and malignant disease. The differential diagnosis of these conditions is often difficult, and it may be impossible to arrive at any definite conclusion merely from local inspection. Careful inquiry into the previous history and into the condition of the lungs and sputum should not be neglected, and the results of anti-syphilitic treatment should be closely watched. The treatment of dysphagia, apart from that of the disease associated with it, resolves itself into the use of local sedative applications, such as a weak cocain or eucain spray before meals, insufflations of acetate of morphin and boracic acid, and the use of a menthol spray. One of the best anaes- thetic applications is orthoform powder, introduced by means of the ordinary laryngeal insufflator. Its action is more prolonged than that of any of the others, often lasting for from twenty- four to forty-eight hours. Interference with Respiration. — It is only necessary here to refer to such causes of interference with respiration as may call for surgical treatment. The chief forms of laryngitis to be considered in connection with the production of dyspnoea, are membranous or diphtheritic laryngitis and acute inflammatory oedema. Diphtheria of the larynx may be primary, but in the majority of cases it is secondary to that in the fauces and pharynx. Careful inspection of these parts may reveal the presence of false membrane, which materially assists in the diagnosis. In addition to the general symptoms there may be huskiness of the voice and a croupy cough. Gradual increase of dyspnoea and cyanosis indicate the spread of the false mem- brane. Laryngoscopic examination may reveal the presence of patches of membrane, and so corroborate the diagnosis. It must not be forgotten that a membranous exudate may be produced by other organisms than the Klebs-Lbffier bacillus, for example, the streptococcus and the bacillus coli.ACUTE (EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. 283 Treatment.—Diphtheria antitoxin should be administered in all cases, as there is no doubt that a lower rate of mortality has prevailed since the introduction of the serum treatment. The use of medicated steam and spraying the throat with peroxide of hydrogen may also be employed. Careful watch must be kept lest, in the event of the respiration becoming seriously interfered with, the necessity for intubation or tracheotomy should arise. Acute (Edema of the Larynx.—(Edema of the larynx may be inflammatory or non-inflammatory in origin. The former is the more common, and it may arise in connection with previously existing disease of the larynx, such as tubercle or syphilis, or it may be secondary to acute septic conditions at the base of the tongue, or in the fauces or pharynx ; more rarely it results from inflamma- tion in the cellular tissue or glands of the neck. The non-infiammatory form may be a local dropsy in renal or cardiac disease, may be induced by press- ure on the large cervical veins, and in some cases it appears to follow the ad- ministration of potassium iodide in the treatment of laryngeal affections. The oedema consists of an exudation into the loose submucous areolar tissue, which may be of a simple serous character or may become sero-purulent. The situations mainly involved are the glosso- epiglottic fossae between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds (Fig. 78), and the false cords. If the inflammatory process commences in front of the epiglottis this structure becomes swollen and rigid, and often livid in colour—points which are readily discerned on examination with the mirror, or even without its aid in some cases. The patient complains of great pain on swallowing, and has the sensation of a foreign body in the throat. Should the inflammation spread to the ary-epiglottic folds, either from the interior of the larynx l Fig. 78.—Larynx from case of sudden death due to oedema of ary-epiglottic folds, a, a. (From drawing lent by Dr. Logan Turner.)284 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. or from the fauces and pharynx, dyspnoea becomes a prominent and grave symptom. The patient may rapidly become cyanosed, the inspirations assume a noisy, stridulous character, and great distress and imminent suffocation supervene. If laryngoscopic examination is possible, the ary-epiglottic folds may be found greatly swollen and the upper aperture of the larynx partially occluded. Digital examination may detect the swollen condition of the parts. The urine should be examined for albumin and tube casts. Treatment depends to some extent both upon the situation and amount of the oedema and upon the gravity of the patient’s condition. In the milder forms the sucking of ice, the inhalation of medicated steam, or spraying with a solution of adrenalin, and the application of poultices to the neck, may suffice to relieve the condition. Scarification of the epiglottis and ary-epiglottic folds with a knife, followed by free bleeding, may give com- plete relief. Diaphoretic and purgative treatment should not be neglected. Intubation or tracheotomy may suddenly be called for. Bilateral Abductor Paralysis. — Both recurrent laryngeal nerves may be interfered with by such conditions as enlargement of the thyroid, tumour of the oesophagus, or intra-thoracic tumour, or by injury in the course of operations for goitre. A gradually increasing inspiratory dyspnoea is developed, which at first is only noticed on exertion, when the desire for air is increased; later it becomes permanent, and even during sleep the stridor may be marked. Suffocation may become imminent. When the larynx is examined with the mirror the vocal cords are seen to lie near each other, and on inspiration their approxi- mation is still greater. The treatment of bilateral abductor paralysis is directed to removing the cause of pressure on the nerves. In the majority of cases tracheotomy is called for to relieve the dyspnoea. Syphilitic Affections of the Larynx.—Secondary syphilitic manifestations in the form of congestion of the mucous membrane, mucous patches, or condylomata, are occasionally met with, and give rise to a huskiness of the voice. These conditions usually disappear rapidly under the influence of mercury. In tertiary syphilis, whether inherited or acquired, the most common lesion is a diffuse gummatous infiltration, which tends to go on to ulceration and to lead to widespread destruction of tissue. It usually attacks the epiglottis, the arytenoids, and the ary-epiglottic folds, but may spread and implicate all the structures of the larynx. Syphilitic ulcers are usually single,TUBERCULOSIS OF LARYNX. 285 deep, and crateriform; the base is covered with a dirty white secretion, and the surrounding mucosa presents an angry red appearance. When the perichondrium becomes invaded necrosis of the cartilages is liable to occur. Hoarseness, dyspnoea, and, when the epiglottis is involved, dysphagia, are the most prominent symptoms. Cicatricial contraction leading to stenosis may ensue, and may cause persistent dyspnoea. The usual treatment for tertiary syphilis is employed, but on account of the tendency of potassium iodide to increase the oedema of the larynx, this drug must at first be used with caution. Intubation or tracheotomy may be called for on account of sudden urgent dyspnoea or of increasing stenosis. The stenosis is afterwards treated by gradual dilatation with bougies, which may conveniently be passed from below upwards if a tracheotomy has been performed. Tuberculosis. — The larynx is very seldom the primary seat of tubercle. In the majority of cases the patient suffers from pulmonary phthisis, and the laryngeal mucous membrane is infected from the sputum. The disease may take the form of isolated tubercle nodules in the vicinity of the arytenoid cartilages, of superficial ulceration of the vocal cords and ad- jacent parts, or of a diffuse tuberculous infiltration of all the structures forming the upper aperture of the larynx. The mucous membrane becomes cedematous and semi-translucent. The nodules coalesce and break down, leading to the formation of multiple superficial ulcers. The parts adjacent to the ulcers are pale in colour. Perichondritis may occur and be followed by necrosis of cartilage and the formation of abscesses in the sub- mucous tissue of the larynx or in the cellular tissue of the neck. The voice becomes hoarse or may be lost, there is persistent and intractable cough, and in some cases dyspnoea supervenes. When the epiglottis is involved there is pain and difficulty in swallowing. In the presence of advanced pulmonary phthisis the treatment is chiefly palliative, but if the disease in the lungs is amenable to treatment, and the laryngeal lesion limited, excellent results have been obtained by local measures. Tracheotomy may be called for on account of urgent dyspnoea. Tumours.—The commonest form of simple tumour met with in the larynx is the •papilloma. It may occur at any age, and is comparatively common in children. It most frequently springs from the vocal cords and adjacent parts, forming a soft, pedunculated, cauliflower-like mass of a pink or red colour, which286 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. may form a fringe hanging from the edge of the cord, or may spread until it nearly fills the larynx. In children the growths are frequently multiple and show a marked tendency to recur after removal. They sometimes disappear spontaneously about puberty. The most prominent symptoms are hoarseness, aphonia, and dyspnoea, which in children may be paroxysmal. The treatment consists in removing the growth by means of laryngeal forceps or the snare, under cocain and adrenalin anaes- thesia. For the removal of multiple papillomata in children it is usually necessary to perform preliminary tracheotomy, and then split the thyroid cartilage and remove the growth, after which the thyroid is stitched. In a certain number of cases it has been found that the tumour disappears after the larynx has been put at rest by the operation of tracheotomy. Cancer. — Epithelioma of the larynx is a comparatively rare affection. It is almost always primary, and usually occurs in males between the ages of forty and seventy. It is important to distinguish between those cases in which the growth first appears in the interior of the larynx—on the vocal cords, the ventricular bands, or in the sub-glottic cavity (intrinsic cancer)—and those in which it attacks the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds, or the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage (extrinsic cancer). Clinical Features.—In the great majority of cases of intrinsic cancer the first, and for many months the only symptom is huskiness of the voice, which may go on to complete aphonia before any other symptoms manifest themselves. When the larynx is examined in an early stage of intrinsic cancer, the presence of a small warty growth on the posterior part of one vocal cord, or a papillary fringe extending along the free edge of the cord, should raise the suspicion of malignancy, especially if the affected cord is congested and moves less freely than its fellow. Early diagnosis is essential in intrinsic cancer, and the absence of enlargement of lymphatic glands, or of foetor and cachexia, must in no way influence the surgeon against making a diagnosis of malignancy. The impaired mobility of the affected cord is an important point in determining the malignant Fig. 79.—Papilloma of Larynx. (From drawing lent by Dr. Logan Turner.)287 CANCER. nature of the growth. As the glands are not involved the disease can be removed by thyrotomy. Intrinsic cancer may spread over the upper boundaries of the larynx and become extrinsic, or the disease may be extrinsic from the outset. In cases of extrinsic cancer the early symptoms are much more marked, pain and difficulty in swallowing, and the secretion of frothy, blood-stained mucus being among the earliest mani- festations. The cervical glands are infected early, sometimes even before there are any symptoms of laryngeal disease. Difficulty of breathing is also an early symptom on account of the growth obstructing the entrance of air. Tracheotomy may therefore be called for. In other respects the course and terminations are similar to those of intrinsic cancer. When the growth spreads into the tissues of the neck the patient’s sufferings are greatly increased. The oesophagus may be invaded by the disease spreading from the box of the larynx, with resulting dysphagia ; the nerve trunks may be pressed upon, causing intense neuralgic pains; the lymphatic glands become infected and break down, and the growth fungates through the skin. The general health deteriorates and death results, usually from septic pneumonia set up by the passage of food particles into the air-passages, from septic absorption, or from haemorrhage. The duration of this form of the disease varies from one to three years. Treatment of Cancer of the Larynx.—This consists in per- forming a preliminary tracheotomy, and some days later remov- ing the growth—partial or complete laryngectomy. To prevent the entrance of blood into the air-passages the patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, or a Hahn’s trachea-tube, sur- rounded by compressed and dehydrated sponge, is employed. In early and limited forms of intrinsic cancer a partial laryn- gectomy is performed, the thyroid cartilage is split in the middle line—thyrotomy (p. 279)—the infected tissues are removed with the scissors, and the two halves of the thyroid cartilage brought together again by sutures. In more advanced cases the entire larynx must be removed—complete laryngectomy— and at the same time, or after an interval, the associated lymphatic glands are removed from the anterior triangle of the neck on both sides. A vertical incision is carried from the tracheotomy wound to the hyoid bone, and horizontal incisions are carried outwards as far as the sterno-mastoid muscle on either side to enable the soft parts covering the larynx to be reflected. The trachea is exposed and cut across at its junction288 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. with the cricoid; the cut end is stitched to the skin at the lower angle of the wound and an ordinary trachea-tube inserted. The soft parts are then reflected off the thyroid cartilage, which may or may not be split in the middle line, and the larynx is detached from the pharynx from below upwards. If the disease is very extensive it may be necessary to remove the epiglottis and the anterior wall of the pharynx. The cavity is packed with gauze and treated by the open method ; the patient is fed for some days through a tube passed into the oesophagus, and by means of nutrient enemata. An artificial larynx may subsequently be inserted, but as a rule this apparatus may be dispensed with, as without it the voice, although “whispered,” is quite distinct. In cases in which excision is impracticable the sufferings of the patient may be alleviated by performing low tracheotomy, and by feeding with the stomach tube or by nutrient enemata. In some cases the difficulty of feeding the patient may make it necessary to consider the question of performing gastrostomy. Sarcoma of the larynx gives rise to the same symptoms as cancer, and can seldom be diagnosed from it before operation. Foreign Bodies in the Air-Passages.—Foreign bodies im- pacted in the pharynx usually consist of large unmasticated pieces of meat or large tooth-plates, and they occlude both the food and the air passages, frequently causing sudden death. They are considered with affections of the oesophagus (p. 265). The bodies most frequently impacted in the larynx are small tooth-plates in the case of adults, and buttons, beads, sweets, coins, and portions of toys in children. These are drawn from the mouth into the air-passages during a sudden inspiratory effort, for example, while laughing or sneezing. If the glottis is completely blocked rapidly fatal asphyxia ensues. If the obstruction is incomplete the patient experiences severe pain, difficulty of breathing, and a terrifying sensation of being choked. The irritation of the foreign body causes spasmodic coughing and retching, and may induce spasm of the glottis, with threatening suffocation. Small round bodies may lodge in the upper aperture or in one of the ventricles, and give rise to hoarseness and repeated attacks of dyspnoea and spasmodic cough. Wherever the body is situated the symptoms may suddenly become urgent from its displacement into the glottis, or from the onset of oedema of the glottis. The position of the body may often be ascertained by the use of the X-rays. Treatment.—If the symptoms are urgent tracheotomy must beFOREIGN BODIES. 289 performed at once, and an attempt made to remove the foreign body thereafter. In less severe cases the throat should be sprayed with cocain, the larynx examined with the mirror, and an attempt made to extract the body with intra - laryngeal forceps. As these manipulations are liable to induce sudden spasm of the glottis, the means of performing tracheotomy must always be at hand. If it be found impossible to remove the body through the mouth, laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be performed, and the body extracted through the external opening, or pushed up into the pharynx and removed by this route. In the case of small bodies, a strand of gauze pushed up from the tracheotomy wound, through the larynx and out of the mouth, catches the foreign body and carries it out (Walker Downie). The foreign bodies that are most likely to become impacted in the trachea are tooth-plates with projecting hooks, and small coins. If the body remains movable in the trachea, it is apt to be displaced when the patient moves or coughs, and it may be driven up and become impacted in the glottis, setting up violent attacks of'coughing and spasmodic dyspnoea. The X-rays often prove helpful in determining the position of the foreign body. Tracheotomy should be performed at once, and the edges of the tracheal wound held widely open with retractors, the patient being inverted, or coughing induced by tickling the mucous membrane with a feather. The foreign body is usually expelled, but it may be inhaled into one of the bronchi. One of Killian’s tracheal tubes may be introduced through the tracheotomy wound and the body extracted by means of suitable forceps. Foreign Bodies in the Bronchi.—Rounded objects, which pass through the larynx, usually drop into one or other of the bronchi, usually the right, which is the more vertical and slightly the larger. The body may act as a ball-valve, permitting the escape of air with expiration, but preventing its entrance on inspiration, with the result that the portion of lung supplied by the bronchus becomes collapsed. The physical signs of collapse of a portion or of the whole lung may be recognised on examination of the chest. In some cases the body is dislodged and driven up into the larynx, causing severe dyspnoeic attacks and spasms of coughing. The ii'ritation caused by the foreign body in the bronchus may set up bronchitis or pneumonia, and abscess of the lung may supervene. This has frecpiently followed the passage of an extracted tooth into the air-passages, and it may be a considerable time before pulmonary symptoms arise. Sometimes the tooth is ultimately coughed up and the symptoms VOL. II—19290 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND RRONCHI. clear up. In some cases the physical signs closely simulate those of pulmonary phthisis. The treatment consists in performing low tracheotomy and attempting to remove the body with curved forceps, bent wires, or other suitable appliances, or with the aid of the bronchoscope. Attempts have been made to reach foreign bodies in the bronchi by opening the chest, but the results have not been encouraging.291 CHAPTER XX. THE CHEST. Surgical Anatomy—Injuries of the chest wall: Contusions; Non- penetrating wounds; Fracture of ribs and costal cartilages; Dis- location of ribs and cartilages; Fracture of sternum — Injuries of thoracic viscera : Hcemothorax ; Pneumothorax ; Haemoptysis ; Emphysema — Injuries of the pleura — Contusion and • laceration of lung—Penetrating wounds of lung—Prolapse of lung—Hernia of lung. Surgical Diseases of the Chest : Diseases of chest wall: Pyogenic; Tuberculous; Syphilitic; Tumours—Pleural effusions: Non-purulent ; Purulent ; Empyema ; Bilateral empyema ; Tuber- culous empyema ; Old - standing empyema with infected sinuses ; Hydrothorax-— Pulmonary cavities : Pulmonary abscess ; Gangrene of lung; Bronchiectasis-, Phthisical cavities; Hydatid cysts. The Heart: Injuries — Pericardial effusions—Pericardial adhesions. The Diarhragm : Injuries—Diseases. The Meijiastina. Surgical Anatomy.—The upper edge of the sternum lies opposite the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, and distant from it about two and a half inches. The junction of the manubrium with the gladiolus is marked by a prominent ridge, which lies opposite the second costal cartilage. The lower end of the sternum is opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The obliquity of the ribs is such that the anterior end of a given rib lies opposite the posterior end of the rib three lower in the series, for example, the anterior end of the fourth rib is on the same level as the posterior end of the seventh. Posterior to the angles of the ribs the intercostal vessels and nerves cross the intercostal space obliquely, and are therefore liable to be injured in tapping or incising the chest. Anterior to the angles they lie in the groove on the under and inner aspect of the rib, and are safe from injury if incisions and exploratory punctures are made close to the upper margin of the rib. The internal mammary vessels lie about half an inch external to the edge of the sternum. The left innominate vein and the main branches of the arch of the aorta are situated behind the manubrium, while the arch itself and the bifurcation of the trachea are behind the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum. The apex of the lung extends for a distance of about two fingers’- breadths above the middle third of the clavicle. A line drawn from the junction of the sternum with the ensiform cartilage to the last rib292 THE CHEST. indicates the lower reflection of the pleura. The lower border of the lung lies about two fingers’-breadths higher than the pleural reflection. Injuries of the Chest. For clinical purposes it is necessary to distinguish between those injuries of the chest that are confined to the soft tissues of the parietes, and those in which the ribs or sternum are fractured; also between those that are complicated by lesions of the internal organs and those that are not. When there is a wound of the soft parts, it is further necessary to discover whether or not it penetrates the thoracic cavity. It is to be borne in mind that the thoracic viscera may be injured without there being any lesion of the parietes. Severe shock, which may even prove fatal, may follow a blow over the chest without there being any evidence either before or after death of a gross lesion of the chest wall or viscera. Injuries of the Chest Wall.—Simple contusion of the chest wall produced by a crush, a fall, or a blow, or in a run-over accident, is one of the most common casualties met with in hospital practice. The patient suffers from a considerable degree of shock even when the violence is comparatively slight. There is marked pallor, the pulse is weak, and the respiration short, shallow, and rapid. As there is tenderness over the part struck, and a sharp, stabbing pain when the patient coughs, sneezes, or takes a long breath, the condition is liable to be mistaken for a fracture of the ribs. Extensive extravasation of blood into the connective tissue planes is frequently met with, particularly in the pectoral region. Children suffer less from such injuries than adults, probably on account of the greater elasticity of the ribs and the more rounded shape of the chest, but the respiration often remains- markedly accelerated (60-70), without dyspnoea or cyanosis, for several days after the injury. The treatment is directed to the relief of symptoms, and consists in combating the shock, and securing rest in bed for several days. Non-penetrating wounds are sometimes attended with sub- cutaneous emphysema, air being sucked into the wound by the movements of the chest. In other respects they present the same characters and call for the same treatment as similar wounds elsewhere. Fracture of the Ribs.—Fracture of the ribs may be the result of direct or of indirect violence, or of muscular action.INJURIES OF THE CHEST WALL. 293 When due to a direct blow the rib gives way at the point struck, and, if the force is severe, the fragments may be driven inwards and cause injury of the pleura, lungs, diaphragm, spleen, or liver. Although protected to some extent by the clavicle, the first rib may be broken by a severe downward blow driving that bone against it. Indirect violence, as by a crush between buffers or the passage of a wheel over the chest, is much the most frequent cause of fracture, the ribs usually giving way towards one or other end—just in front of the angle being the commonest situation. It has been shown that the fracture is due to a force acting in the long axis of the rib and driving one segment i:>ast the other, and that the rib does not break, as is frequently stated, like an over-bent bow (E. H. Bennett). The ribs most frequently fractured are the fourth to the eighth. Owing to their shortness and mobility the floating ribs are not often fractured. It is comparatively rare for fracture to be limited to a single rib; as a rule two or more are broken. Fracture due to a severe muscular effort, such as coughing or the straining of parturition, usually implicates the anterior portions of one or more of the ribs between the seventh and the eleventh, and is of the sub-periosteal variety. Old age, wasting diseases, and those conditions which, like rickets or mollities ossium, lead to undue softness or brittleness of the bones, predispose to fracture. In certain types of insanity also, particularly in general paralytics, fracture of the ribs is specially prone to occur. In asylum practice such fractures may be wrongly attributed to roughness on the part of attendants. Clinical Features.—The patient is often conscious of some- thing giving way with a snap at the moment of fracture. There is a sharp, stabbing pain on coughing or sneezing, and at the end of inspiration on taking a deep breath. The respiration is usually shallow and rapid. Tenderness is elicited on pressing directly over the seat of fracture, or over the affected rib at a distance from the break, also on compressing the chest antero- posteriorly. When asked to point to the seat of pain the patient usually does so by placing the tip of his thumb over the spot— a gesture that is characteristic. Crepitus and mobility of the fragments cannot always be detected. As any displace- ment that may exist is usually inwards, the fracture is rarely rendered compound by fragments piercing the skin. Union invariably occurs with a considerable amount of callus, which is most abundant on the inner aspect of the rib. Fractures of the ribs may be complicated by subcutaneousTHE CHEST. 294 emphysema and by other evidence of injury to the pleura and lung, in the form of Inemo-thorax or pneumo-thorax. The treatment of uncomplicated cases of fracture consists in confining the patient to bed, and in controlling, as far as possible, the movements of the affected side of the chest. This is best done by strapping the injured side. The strapping is applied in strips, each about a couple of inches wide, and long enough to extend a little more than half-way round the chest. The strips are applied across the line of the ribs in an imbricated manner from below upwards, each strip being fixed in position while the chest is in full expiration. The strapping should be covered by a roller bandage, and should be worn for about three weeks. Another method consists in applying a roller bandage firmly round the chest, and to prevent it slipping it should be put on over a flannel semmit to which the different layers are stitched. Fracture of the costal cartilages is usually the result of direct violence, such as a fall against a projecting object, but it may occur from muscular action. While it may be met with in young subjects, the ossification of the cartilages that occurs with advancing years renders it more common in the aged. The fifth to the eighth cartilages are those most frequently broken. Union takes place by bone, usually without much deformity. The symptoms closely resemble those of fractured rib, and the treatment is carried out on the same lines. Dislocations of the ribs from the vertebrae and of the costal cartilages from the sternum are rare, and, as they result from severe forms of violence, they are usually complicated by internal injuries. Fracture of the Sternum.—In spite of its exposed position and the frequency with which it is subjected to violence, the sternum is comparatively seldom fractured. This is largely dufe to its mobility, and to the elasticity of the ribs and costal cartilages, which disperse the force and enable the sternum to yield before a blow. The injury is more common, however, than the statistics of fractures would appear to indicate. It often accompanies fractures of the spine, in many cases being un- attended with displacement or other external evidence of injury, and, being overshadowed by the more serious lesion, escapes notice during life, and is only discovered on post-mortem examination. The fracture may be due to a direct blow over the sternum, or to indirect violence, such as forcible and excessive bending ofFRACTURE OF THE STERNUM. 295 the back either forwards or backwards. In cases of forcible forward flexion the fracture is sometimes due to impact of the chin against the manubrium. The most common situation of the fracture is at or just below the junction of the manubrium with the body of the bone, and the break may be transverse or slightly oblique. The displacement varies considerably; in the majority of cases the upper fragment passes backwards and is overlapped by the lower; less frequently the opposite occurs (Fig. 80); and in some cases there is no displacement. Clinical Features. — When the fragments are displaced and overlap one another, there is a marked promin- ence on the front of the chest, with extravasation of blood around it, and the projecting edge of the anterior fragment—usually the lower one— can be palpated through the skin. When no displacement exists there may only be a slight staining of the skin from extravasated blood. As movement causes pain, the head and neck are inclined forward and held rigid, and as there is also pain on taking a full breath, the respiration is shallow and rapid. When there is marked displacement, or when exten- sive effusion of blood has taken place into the anterior mediastinum, the respiration may be seriously impeded. By the aid of the stethospope crepitus may be recognised when the patient takes a deep breath. This fracture is usually complicated by injury to the internal organs. In all cases in which it has been produced by forcible bending of the trunk, the possibility of a coexisting fracture of the spine should be borne in mind. The treatment consists in placing the patient at rest in bed with a firm pillow behind the back. When overlapping exists, an attempt should be made to reduce the deformity by bending the patient backward over a rounded object, such as a large firm cushion. If the displaced fragments continue to interfere with Fio. 80.—Oblique Fracture of the Body of the Sternum, with backward and upward Dis- placement of the Lower Frag- ment. Result of forward flexion of the trunk. There was also a compression fracture of the lumbar vertebrae (Fig. 24).THE CHEST. 296 respiration after time has been allowed for any rent in the pleura to heal, the fracture may be exposed by incision, the displacement reduced, and the fragments wired in position. Union in the deformed position, however, is not as a rule attended with any inconvenience. The ensiform cartilage may be separated from the body of the sternum and driven inwards, causing pain, shortness of breath, and sometimes vomiting. It may be necessary to cut down and remove it. Injuries of the Thoracic Viscera.—Lesions of the pleura, the lungs, the heart, or the diaphragm, may complicate any of the injuries of the chest wall above described ; or they may occur independently of any gross lesion of the parietes. These internal complications may be associated with the escape into the pleural cavity of blood—hcemothorax, or of air—pneumo- thorax ; with spitting of blood—haemoptysis, or with the escape of air into the subcutaneous cellular tissue—surgical emphysema. Hcemothorax may be due to the rupture of an intercostal or internal mammary artery, to laceration of the pleura, lung, or diaphragm, or to a wound of the heart or great blood-vessels. The clinical features are those of internal haemorrhage, with evidence of fluid in the pleural cavity—in the form of dulness, loss of the breath sounds and of vocal fremitus—and of pressure on the lung. The patient becomes extremely restless, constantly changing his position; the breathing is rapid and laboured, and the pulse small, quick, and irregular. The effused blood does not coagulate, and in many cases is rapidly reabsorbed. If there is a penetrating wound, blood may escape each time the patient coughs or moves in bed. From faintness or shock at the time of the accident, the blood may not be poured out into the pleural cavity until reaction comes on some hours later, and the sudden onset of symptoms may prove a source of difficulty in diagnosis, suggesting perforation of an abdominal viscus. It sometimes happens that several days after an injury a considerable quantity of serous fluid is poured out into the pleural cavity, and gives rise to symptoms similar to those of lisemothorax. The use of an exploring needle, however, serves to distinguish between these conditions. Pneumothorax, or the escape of air into the pleural cavity, may be a l’esult of laceration of the lung by a fragment of a broken rib, or by a foreign body, such as a knife-blade or a bullet. It has also resulted from puncture of the lung by an exploring needle. There is at first severe pain in the chest, and the patientINJURIES OF THE THORACIC VISCERA. 297 becomes restless, short of breath, and cyanosed. The lung tends to collapse to a slight extent, and the prominent physical signs are bulging of the intercostal spaces, hyper-resonance on percussion, loss of vocal fremitus, and faintness or absence of the breath sounds and of vocal resonance. If the lung is markedly collapsed, the heart, the liver, or the spleen may be displaced, and pulmonary consolidation may ensue. As the air which enters the pleura is free of bacteria, septic complications seldom ensue. When the wound in the lung heals, the air becomes absorbed, the lung expands again, and in the course of four or five days which the lung has been damaged. It is more likely to follow small punctured wounds, especially if they be valvular, than extensive lacerated wounds. The air may escape directly into the tissues of the chest wall through a rent in the pleura caused by a fragment of broken rib or a pointed instrument. When the lung is torn while the pleura remains intact, the air may escape along the peribronchial connective tissue into the media- stinum, and thence into the root of the neck. In punctured wounds of the parietes, air may be sucked in by the respiratory movements of the chest and give rise to emphysema. When it comes from the lung, the air is pressed out during expiration, and it may spread over a wide area of the body (Fig. 81). The skin in the emphysematous area is slightly298 THE CHEST. raised and tense, and a peculiar crepitant feeling is imparted to the fingers on palpation. Near the point where the air escapes the skin is sometimes discoloured by extravasated blood. In some cases the air is very rapidly reabsorbed, in others it remains in the tissues for a considerable time. Injuries of the Pleura.—One or both layers of the pleura may be lacerated by a severe contusion of the chest wall without fracture or external wound. More frequently the tear is produced by a fragment of a broken rib. The injury may be followed by hamiothorax, pneumothorax, or subcutaneous emphysema. After such injuries there is frequently some hypersemia of the pleura, attended with pain, friction sounds, and effusion of serous fluid into the cavity—so-called “ traumatic pleurisy.” As a rule this fluid is reabsorbed, but if it is infected with bacteria, for example by tapping with an imperfectly sterilised instrument, it is liable to become purulent. Penetrating wounds, produced, for instance, by pointed in- struments or bullets, are more liable to be followed by septic complications. Extensive open wounds, such as result from machinery accidents, explosions, or from the patient being im- paled on a railing, are attended with collapse of the lung. Injuries of the Lung.—Contusion and laceration of the lung may occur without fracture or any other gross lesion of the chest wall, but as a rule they are associated with fracture of one or more of the ribs, and are often directly due to fragments of the broken bones being driven into the lung substance. In most cases the tear in the lung is of considerable extent, and as it implicates the visceral pleura, haemothorax and pneumothorax almost always occur. Haemoptysis is usually present, but may be absent even when the lung is severely lacerated. If the parietal pleura is ruptured, subcutaneous emphysema may develop over the chest wall, while, if the pleura is intact, it may appear at the root of the neck. Shock is always a prominent feature, and for some hours the patient may remain collapsed, cyanosed, almost pulseless, and apparently moribund, and then recover rapidly. In other cases death results from haemorrhage and asphyxia due to blood entering the air-passages. In penetrating ivounds of the lung, caused, for example, by a stab or the entrance of a bullet, the patient presents the same general symptoms as in contusion and laceration. The open wound, however, permits of the escape of blood, which in many cases is very profuse. There is often considerable difficulty in determining whether the blood is coming from a divided inter- costal or internal mammary artery or from the lung tissue itself.299 INJUKIES OF THE LUNG. A consideration of the position of the external wound, the presence or absence of other symptoms of injury of the lung, and the way in which the blood escapes—whether in a continuous stream, or only when the patient coughs or moves—will aid in settling this point. The fact that the blood is mixed with air is not conclusive evidence that it comes from the lung, as the air may have been sucked into the chest by the respiratory move- ments. The risk of septic infection of the pleura is increased in penetrating wounds, and empyema, septic pneumonia, and gangrene of the lung are liable to ensue. Treatment.—In all cases in which the thoracic viscera have been injured, the patient must be kept absolutely quiet in bed in a warm room. He is usually most comfortable when propped up in a sitting or reclining position. Steps are taken to combat shock, but stimulation must be employed with discretion on account of the risk of increasing haemorrhage. If the ribs or sternum be fractured, the treatment already described for these injuries may be employed, unless, as is often the case, the necessary manipulations are contra-indicated by the general con- dition of the patient. The further treatment will depend upon the symptoms present. In many cases of hcemothorax, for example, no special treatment is required, as the bleeding does not continue long and the effused blood is rapidly re-absorbed; but if the effusion is causing dangerous pressure on the lung, it is advisable to withdraw some of it by aspiration. Care should be taken not to use a strong vacuum in the aspirator, and not to withdraw all the fluid from the chest, lest the rapid expansion of the lung should displace clots or open up the tear in the lung tissue and restart the bleeding. When the heart is embarrassed by the fluid in the pleura, marked benefit usually follows the withdrawal of ten or twelve ounces of blood from the systemic circulation by venesec- tion. When the fluid is not re-absorbed by the end of a fort- night, it may be withdrawn by a fine aspirating needle. By this time the wound in the lung will have healed and the risk of renewed haemorrhage be past. The occurrence of septic infection is an indication for incising the pleura, resecting portions of one or more ribs, and establishing drainage. Pneumo- thorax seldom calls for special treatment. When severe dyspnoea is present, relief may follow the escape of air through a hollow needle introduced into the pleura, provided the wound in the lung has healed. Macewen recommends that if this fails to allow the lung to expand, the pleural cavity be opened by the removal of a portion of rib as near the seat of the pulmonaryTHE CHEST. 300 lesion as possible. If the visceral and parietal layers of the pleura are then brought into contact by making firm pressure over the chest and diaphragm, they adhere by capillary attraction and the lung expands. Haemoptysis is treated by giving the patient ice to suck and by injecting ergotin or morphin. Surgical emphysema usually disappears spontaneously. In the treatment of penetrating wounds the primary indications are to arrest external haemorrhage, to purify the wound, and remove any foreign bodies that may be present. When the bleeding takes place from an intercostal artery, to enable the bleeding point to be secured it is usually necessary to enlarge the wound, or even to resect a portion of a rib. Sometimes the bleeding can be stopped by passing a ligature round the rib and its accompanying intercostal vessels. Desault’s method of pushing a cul-de-sac of sterilised gauze between the ribs, packing it tightly with strips of lint or gauze, and then pulling upon it, so that the pad thus formed presses upon the bleeding vessel, is sometimes successful. Bleeding from the internal mammary artery can only be arrested by exposing the vessel and securing it by a ligature either at or above the bleeding point. The artery is most readily reached in the second intercostal space. External haemorrhage having its origin in the lung is exceedingly difficult to arrest by local measures. Plugging the pleural cavity with gauze is practically useless. If the haemorrhage is serious, it may be justifiable to resect portions of one or more ribs and deal directly with the injured lung. The opinions of authorities differ regarding the expediency of exploring penetrating wounds with the probe. The majority agree that except in the case of gunshot wounds—and some- times even in them—the probe should be avoided. The external wound should be purified, being enlarged if necessary for the purpose of removing portions of clothing, fragments of broken ribs, or other foreign bodies that may have been driven'in. A drainage-tube or gauze packing is then introduced. Bullets or other foreign bodies lodged in the lung, after having been accurately localised by aid of the Rbntgen rays, may be extracted later. Prolapse of the Lung.—In extensive lacerated wounds of the chest wall a portion of lung may be prolapsed, either at the time of the accident or within a few hours of its occurrence. The protruded tissue is at first normal in appearance and crepitates when handled, but soon becomes congested and swollen, and, if constricted at its base, it is liable to slough. If seen early, an attempt should be made to reduce the prolapse, the301 HERNIA OF THE LUNG. opening through which it comes being enlarged, if necessary, and subsequently closed to prevent recurrence. When the herniated portion has become gangrenous, it should be cut away after a ligature has been placed round its base. Hernia of the Lung.—A portion of lung may become herniated through a weak part of the chest wall, for example, the scar left after the healing of a penetrating wound. The most common situation for such a hernia is the anterior part of the lower intercostal spaces. It is usually the thin, mobile edge of the lung which is protruded, and it is furnished with a sac derived from the pleura. The condition is usually produced by coughing, or other form of violent expiratory effort, and it has been met with in trombone and cornet players. The swelling is soft, smooth, and crepitant. It increases on forced expiration and diminishes on inspiration, yields a vesicular murmur on auscultation, and is resonant on percussion. Reduction is rarely possible without operation, and this is seldom called for, as the condition does not cause serious inconvenience. The swelling may be protected from external pressure by a suitable pad. Diseases of the Chest. Diseases of the Chest Wall.—Cellulitis may occur in the subcutaneous connective tissue, or in the cellular tissue beneath the pectoral muscles and aponeuroses. It is usually due to the spread of infection from suppurating axillary glands, but in some cases the source of infection is not discoverable. A firm, brawny swelling forms and spreads over one-half of the chest; the skin is red and oedematous, there is marked tenderness over the affected area, and the respiratory movements are restricted. After a few days pus forms, the swelling becomes boggy, and fluctuation may be detected. The pus usually erupts on the skin surface ; sometimes the inflammatory process spreads to the pleural cavity. There is marked evidence of septic absorption; and, unless treated by multiple incisions and drainage, the con- dition may prove fatal. An acute localised abscess may follow the lodgment of a foreign body in the chest wall, the infection of a hsematoma, or acute osteomyelitis of the ribs or sternum, particularly as a sequel of typhoid fever. Less acute forms of localised abscess result from the perforation of an empyema, or of a pulmonary or pleural abscess. Acute osteomyelitis of the ribs or sternum is comparatively rare, except as part of a multiple infection in which several302 THE CHEST. bones throughout the skeleton are involved, or as a complication of typhoid. Carbuncles are commonly met with on the posterior wall of the chest. Tuberculosis of the Eibs and Sternum.—Tuberculosis of the ribs and sternum is a comparatively common condition in patients who suffer from other tuberculous conditions. Although most common in middle life, it occurs also in adolescents, and less frequently in children. It is more common on the right side than on the left. In the ribs the disease usually begins as an osteomyelitis, less frequently as a periostitis, and affects the rib near to its junction with the cartilage. Sometimes the primary focus is in the perichondrium. It is, however, often difficult to differentiate between these forms. The sternum is usually involved about the level-of the second costal cartilage, and a sequestrum may form. Sometimes the bones are infected secondarily by tuber- culous disease spreading from the pleura or lung, or by a spinal abscess burrowing along an intercostal space. In all forms abscesses ultimately develop. When the pus forms on the outer aspect of the bone, it works its way towards the skin, and leads to the formation of sinuses, which are often long and tortuous, and open at a considerable distance from the diseased bone. When on the deep aspect, the pus tends to burrow between the bone and the pleura, where it may form a collection of considerable size. Infection of the pleura and lung is a rare sequela, but when the sternum is involved the abscess may invade the anterior mediastinum. Pathological fracture of the affected bone may take place. The disease begins insidiously and progresses slowly, without causing pain or other discomfort, and attention is usually first attracted by the swelling, which presents the usual characters of a cold abscess. Treatment.—If the skin is still intact, a flap should be thrown up, and the abscess, together with the affected portion of bone or cartilage excised, in one piece if possible, after which the wound is closed without drainage. In women it may be necessary to throw up the breast to gain access to the diseased focus. When sinuses are present they should be laid freely open so as to expose the affected portion of bone, which is excised ; the cavity is then purified and packed. Mere scraping of sinuses and bone is almost invariably followed by recurrence, and is not to be recommended. Syphilitic gummata are met with chiefly in the periosteumTUMOURS OF CHEST WALL. 303 of the sternum, and when they erupt on the skin they give rise to characteristic syphilitic ulcers. While still subcutaneous they require to be differentiated from tuberculous disease and from sarcoma. Actinomycosis is sometimes met with on the chest wall. Painful affections in the line of the intercostal nerves—inter- costal neuralgia, pleurodynia 1vol. i. p. 385), and herpes zoster— are not uncommon. Fig. 82.—Large Lipoma of back in a woman, ret. 50. (Mr. F. M. Caird's case.) Tumours.—The skin of the chest wall is a common site of keloid, forming in the scars left by wounds or by acne spots. Fibromata, neuro-fibromata, and moles are also met with in the skin. Lipomata are common, particularly on the back, and sometimes attain a great size (Fig. 82). A ncevus or a lymph- angioma occurring in the subcutaneous tissue is liable to be mistaken for a cold abscess or for a hernia of the lung. The ribs and sternum may be the seat of simple osteomata or chondromata, but as a rule such tumours tend to assume the characters of sarcomata.THE CHEST. 304 Of primary malignant tumours the sarcoma and the chondro- sarcoma are the most common types. The former occurs most frequently in the sternum, attacking patients in middle life, and being very vascular and pulsatile, it is liable to be mistaken for a thoracic aneurysm eroding the bone. The chondro-sarcoma usually appears on the ribs near their junction with the cartilages, is met with chiefly in early adult life, and may grow to a great size. Both forms tend to spread towards the thoracic cavity and rapidly implicate the pleura, lung, or diaphragm. They are comparatively painless, and may present few physical signs even when the thoracic viscera are extensively invaded. In some cases the position and extent of the growth may be recog- nised by skiagraphy, in others these points can only be determined by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—The pleural cavity should be opened through an intercostal space a little distance from the tumour, and if on exploring with the finger it is found that the parietal pleura alone is involved, the removal of the tumour may be undertaken. The soft parts are reflected by turning up a large U-shaped flap, and the ribs divided well beyond the limits of the growth, which is then rapidly removed. The tendency of the lung to collapse when the pleura is freely opened may be overcome by placing a towel wrung out of hot saline solution over the wound. When the skin flap is accurately stitched in position so that the cavity is completely closed, the lung expands again in the course of a few hours. Secondary invasion of the chest wall is most common in cases of cancer of the breast. The original mammary tumour may invade the ribs or sternum, but more frequently these bones become implicated in recurrent growths. The manubrium sterni is a common seat of metastatic tumours in cases of mammary cancer in which the disease becomes disseminated. Sarcoma originating in the pleura or lung may spread to the bones of the chest wall. Pleural Effusions.—An effusion into the pleural cavity may be serous, sero-fibrinous, or purulent, and the fluid may collect in a localised area of the pleural sac shut off by adhesions, or may occupy the whole cavity. In cases of pleurisy with effusion, the fluid is at first serous or sero-fibrinous, and in a considerable proportion of cases is associated with the presence of the tubercle bacillus. In other cases pyogenic organisms— pneumococci, streptococci, and staphylococci—are present, and the fluid becomes purulent, constituting an empyema. In the serous and sero-fibrinous forms the fluid is usually305 PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. re-absorbed, but when it persists, or exerts injurious pressure on the lung, or displaces the heart and impedes its action, it should be withdrawn by means of the aspirator, the needle being inserted in the seventh or eighth interspace a little outside the angle of the scapula. Rapid withdrawal of the effusion is to be avoided, as it may induce bleeding from the inflamed and vascular pleura or lung tissue, may give rise to syncope from too sudden diminution of the intra-thoracic pressure, or may occasion acute oedema of the lung. Empyema or Pyothorax.—The term empyema is applied to any collection of purulent or sero-pumlent fluid in the cavity of the pleura. When the fluid is localised to a limited area of the pleural sac the term encysted empyema is employed; when it is diffused throughout the whole cavity it is spoken of as total empyema. For clinical purposes it is convenient to describe separately those forms due to infection with pyogenic organisms, and those due to the tubercle bacillus. Pyogenic Empyema.—In the great majority of cases pyogenic empyema occurs as a complication of some other serious illness, the most common form being that which follows on an attack of pleurisy or pneumonia, and the organisms most frequently present are pneumococci, less commonly streptococci or staphylococci. Another way in which infection takes place directly from the lung is by the bursting into the pleura of a pulmonary abscess, a bronchiectasis, or a gangrenous focus. The organisms present vary with the nature of the primary condition, and the infection is usually a mixed one, saprophytic bacteria generally being present. In injuries of the pleura and lung accompanied by effusion infection may take place, either directly through a wound or by way of the blood-stream, and give rise to empyema. In addition to those forms which are secondary to pulmonary affections, empyema may result from an abscess of the liver, or a subphrenic abscess bursting through the diaphragm, or from an abscess of the chest wall bursting through the parietal pleura. Lastly, infection may take place from the blood-stream in the course of such acute infective diseases as typhoid, scarlet fever, influenza, puerperal sepsis, or general pyaemia. Morbid Anatomy.— The fluid in the pleural cavity varies from a thin, turbid, sero-purulent effusion, to a thick creamy pus in which masses of fibrin float. As a rule the pus is odour- less, but when the condition is secondary to gangrene of the lung, sub-phrenic abscess, or an infected wound, it may be foetid. Even in comparatively recent cases the pleura is thickened and covered with masses of flaky lymph which may be as much as an VOL. II—20306 THE CHEST. inch thick. In cases of long standing this fibrinous exudate becomes organised into connective tissue, and the pleura becomes greatly thickened, and adhesions may form between its visceral and parietal layers. These adhesions may divide the cavity up into several loculi (Fig. 83). The lung is more or less collapsed and drawn back towards the vertebral groove. In course of time it undergoes sclerotic changes, and from the thickening of the pleura over it and the adhesions which bind it down it becomes incapable of expanding again. Clinical Features.—The earliest symptoms of empyema are Fig. 83.—Multilocular empyema. Note thickening of the visceral pleura and displacement of the heart. usually overshadowed by those of the condition on which it supervenes, and in many cases following on pleurisy or pneu- monia it is only suspected because recovery from the primary illness is delayed or interrupted. In those cases due to the bursting of an abscess in an adjacent part, a sudden exacerbation of symptoms associated with respiratory difficulty suggests the possibility of empyema. Certain symptoms, however, are common to all cases, these are: immobility of the affected side of the chest, flattening and sometimes even bulging of the intercostal spaces, dulness on percussion, and absence of the breath sounds and vocal fremitus. In children well-markedEMPYEMA 307 bronchial breathing may be heard even in the presence of a large purulent effusion. There is usually some dyspnoea, the pulse is accelerated, the temperature raised, rigors are common, and there is often profuse perspiration. The patient usually emaciates rapidly. The heart may be displaced by the fluid, particularly in left-sided empyema, and the liver and spleen may also be dis- placed. As most of these symptoms may be caused by a serous effusion into the pleura, the diagnosis of empyema is seldom certain until pus is withdrawn by means of an exploring needle. If the fluid withdrawn, although not actually purulent, is turbid and rich in cellular elements, empyema is almost sure to develop. The 'pneumococcal form is the least serious, and is that most frequently met with in children as a sequel of pleuro-pneumonia. In early cases the effusion is usually thin and sero-purulent, but when the condition has lasted for some time thick flakes of lymph form and adhere to the surface of the pleura. The pus is often localised to the lower portion of the chest and encysted by adhesions, and the physical signs above mentioned may not be prominent. The streptococcal form is frequently met with after scarlet fever and influenza. It usually occurs in adults, and the prognosis is more serious than in the pneumococcal form. The pus contains thick flaky masses, and the pleura is liable to become thickened and form adhesions, which divide the cavity into loculi (Fig. 83). The clinical features of empyemata due to mixed infections vary with the virulence of the organisms present. If left untreated, empyema may prove fatal by the pressure exerted on the lungs or heart, by spread of the inflammation to the pericardium or peritoneum, or by general septic absorption. The pus may burst through the chest wall—usually at the outer edge of the pectoralis major in the fifth interspace—and so establish a sinus; or it may burrow through the lung into the bronchi, and give rise to purulent expectoration. Occasionally it burrows behind the attachments of the diaphragm, and may point in the lumbar, gluteal, or iliac regions. Treatment.—While repeated aspiration may occasionally effect a cure, especially in children and in the pneumococcal variety of the disease, it is not to be relied upon, and is only to be employed in exceptional circumstances, for example, when, on account of extreme weakness, the patient is unable to stand a more severe operation. The most satisfactory method of treatment is by incision and resection of a portion of one or more ribs. By this meansTHE CHEST. 308 efficient drainage can be secured, tlie cavity can be thoroughly explored, septa can be broken down, and masses of lymph removed from the pleura. In some cases the embarrassment of the respiration and of the heart’s action renders the adminis- tration of a general anaesthetic dangerous, and it is necessary to perform the operation under local anaesthesia. The soft parts can thus be rendered insensitive, but the division of the ribs causes considerable pain. From our own experience, we agree with I). M. Greig, that the risks attending the giving of a general anaesthetic in cases of empyema have been exaggerated, and that, if due precautions are taken, chloroform may be given with safety. The patient should lie flat on his back, the affected side of the chest projecting beyond the edge of the table. Care must be taken that the free movement of the healthy side of the chest is in no way impeded, that the head is kept low to avoid the risk of syncope, and that the patient is not moved during the administration. Thoracotomy for Empyema.-—Before making the incision the skin should be pulled up slightly over the rib to be resected— in cases of generalised empyema this will be the seventh, eighth, or ninth rib in the mid-, or posterior axillary line—to ensure that, when the chest falls in after withdrawal of the pus, the opening in the soft tissues will be opposite the opening through the rib. The incision, which is about two and a half inches long, is then made in the long axis of the rib, and is carried down to the bone, dividing the periosteum freely. The periosteum is then raised from the bone all round with a curved separator, care being taken of the intercostal vessels, which run in the groove on the under edge of the rib. With a suitable pair of rib forceps a portion of rib about an inch and a half long is resected. The pleura is opened by pushing a director through it, and the finger introduced through the opening thus made. Before the pus escapes the cavity should be explored with the finger, to determine its extent and the condition of the lung. The pus is allowed to flow out slowly, in order that the heart and lungs may gradually accommodate themselves to the altered conditions of pressure within the thorax. It is not advisable to scrape the walls of the cavity, and irrigation is to be avoided unless the pus is very foetid. When irrigation is employed care must be taken that the fluid is at the body temperature, and that the outflow is as free as the inflow, so that that there may be no accumulation of fluid, which by its weight may impede the action of the heart and lungs. Neglect of these precautions has led to serious, and in some cases to fatal, results.EMPYEMA. 309 Two large-sized rubber tubes are introduced side by side so that they project about a quarter of an inch within the parietal pleura ; only that portion of each tube which projects within the pleural cavity should be perforated, so that the pus is carried past the wound in the parietes without contaminating it unduly. The advantage of two tubes is that the risk of blockage is diminished, and that, at the subsequent dressings, one tube can be removed at a time, the other keeping the wound open and facilitating reintroduction. The outer end of each tube should be transfixed with a large safety-pin to prevent its being sucked into the pleura during inspiration. Hogarth Pringle recommends Fig. 84.—Patient using Spirometer after operation for empyema, as suggested by Dr. Alexander James. that if the lung does not show signs of expanding with the first few coughing efforts, the adhesions between the two pleural surfaces should be freely separated with the finger or with an instrument, more ribs being resected if necessary to permit of the adhesions being reached. During the after-treatment the patient should lie on the affected side as much as possible to promote the escape of the discharge. To prevent the suction of air into the pleural cavity, the end of the tube should be covered with a piece of oiled-silk protective, which acts as a valve; or a syphon, or valvular tube may be employed. The expansion of the lung should be further encouraged by breathing exercises, or by the use of simpleTHE CHEST. 310 spirometer (Fig. 84). The wound is dressed once or twice daily according to the amount of discharge. The tubes are left in as long as the discharge is purulent, and when it becomes serous they may be discarded. The sooner the patient can be got into the open air the better. Bilateral Empyema frequently follows double pneumonia, particularly in children below the age of twelve. It is seldom advisable to operate on both sides at once. The safest procedure is to aspirate each side on two or three successive days to relieve the pressure on the lungs and heart, and to avoid a sudden change in the intra-thoracic pressure, and then to incise and drain one side. In the course of a few days the second side may be operated upon. Tuberculous Empyema.—This may originate as a serous effusion associated with tuberculous pleurisy ; or from the rupture of a phthisical cavity into the pleura, in which case it is some- times complicated by pneumothorax. The pus is usually encap- sulated by the greatly thickened pleura, and the condition is practically a cold abscess. When the condition is due to rupture of a phthisical cavity the onset is acute, and is attended with constitutional disturbance ; in other cases it is insidious, and the progress of the disease slow. The lung ultimately becomes collapsed from the pressure of the fluid, and undergoes fibrous changes, which render it hard and leathery and incapable of expanding again. Operative treatment is much less satisfactory than in the pyogenic forms, as the lung fails to expand, and the sinuses continue to discharge, and if septic infection occurs, symptoms of hectic fever supervene and the condition of chronic empyema is established. Chronic or Old-Standing Empyema with Infected Sinuses.— The obliteration of an empyemic cavity is effected, under ordinary conditions, partly by the expansion of the lung, so that the visceral and parietal pleurae are brought into contact, partly by the elevation of the diaphragm and the displacement of the other lung and the heart, and partly by falling in of the chest wall. It frequently happens that these reparative processes fail to take place, or do not progress sufficiently to obliterate the cavity completely, with the result that a space with rigid walls is left between the lung and the parietes. The pleura which lines this space is greatly thickened, and is covered with granulation tissue, and pus escapes through one or more sinuses, either con- tinuously or at intervals as it accumulates in the lower part of the cavity. This is most common in cases of tuberculous empyema, but it may occur in pyogenic cases in which theCHRONIC EMPYEMA. 311 opening has been delayed until the lung has collapsed and become fibrous, and dense adhesions have formed. In some cases the failure of the cavity to close is due to a drainage-tube or other foreign body having been inadvertently left in the pleural space. While some patients are able to continue at work for many years in spite of a constant discharge, the majority succumb sooner or later to septic poisoning, hectic fever, or waxy disease. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing a sufficient amount of the chest wall to enable the parietes to fall in and lead to the obliteration of the cavity—thoracoplasty. This may be done by the Estliinder-Schede operation, which consists in excising subperiosteally portions of several ribs, the number and length of the portions resected depending on the size and shape of the cavity to be obliterated. One or more incisions are made over the ribs to be dealt with, or a large horseshoe-shaped musculo- cutaneous flap, extending from the fourth to the ninth or tenth rib, is turned up, and the exposed ribs resected. The periosteum, the intercostal muscles, and the thickened parietal pleura are then removed, and the cavity packed with gauze before the flap is replaced. When the lung is firmly bound down in the vertebral groove, multiple incisions may be made through the thickened visceral pleura, or the procedure known as “decorti- cation of the lung ” may be carried out as an addition to thoracoplasty. This consists in peeling off the thickened pleura from the surface of the lung (Delorme). Hydrothorax is a condition in which, as a result of extreme feebleness of the circulation in advanced stages of cardiac, renal, and other diseases, a passive effusion of serous fluid takes place into the pleural cavity. It is usually bilateral, and is not attended with fever or pain. In malignant disease, in phthisis, and in certain bacterial diseases of the lungs, the fluid may be deeply stained with blood. Sometimes air escapes with the fluid, particularly in phthisical patients, and the condition is known as hydro-pneumothorax. When the lungs or heart become embarrassed by the pressure of the fluid aspiration is called for. Pulmonary Cavities.—Under this heading we may for convenience include pulmonary abscess, gangrene of the lung, bronchiectasis, phthisical cavities, and hydatid cysts. The diagnosis is always a matter of difficulty, and in many cases it is all but impossible to determine the exact position and extent of a cavity. The physical signs are often misleading, and Tuffier has pointed out that, if we trust to stethoscopic312 THE CHEST evidence, we are apt to place lesions above the level of the root of the lung too high, and lesions below that level too low. The nature of tbe expectoration should be noted, but it is to be borne in mind that the quantity expectorated bears no constant relation to the size of the cavity. An exploratory puncture made with an aspirator needle is the most certain diagnostic measure we possess. The X-rays have been found useful in a certain proportion of cases in determining the site, extent, and number of cavities in the lung. As the operative procedure—pneumonotomy—is practically the same for all forms of pulmonary cavities, it may be described now. Local anaesthesia is to be preferred. The operation consists in exposing the area of lung in which the cavity is believed to lie, by an incision sufficiently large to permit of the subperiosteal resection of about three inches of two or more ribs. If no adhesions exist around the area thus exposed, the pleural cavity must be shut off before incising the lung. This is done by passing, with a fully curved Hagedorn needle, a ring of sutures through the lung substance and parietal pleura so as to bring the two layers of the pleura into apposition. The lung is then incised with a knife or thermo-cautery, the opening dilated with dressing forceps, the cavity evacuated, and drainage tubes inserted. Irrigation is not advisable. Pulmonary abscess when acute is usually a sequela of septic pneumonia. Chronic abscess may be due to the bursting of an empyema or of a hepatic abscess into the lung. The sputum is abundant, yellow, and cream-like, and contains elastic fibres and hsematoidin crystals. The physical signs of a cavity in the lungs are present, and this may be localised by the X-rays. The result of pneumonotomy in such cases is on the whole satisfactory. Pyremic abscesses are usually multiple, and therefore not amenable to surgical treatment. Gangrene of the lung usually results from acute septic pneumonia, pulmonary apoplexy, or embolism of the terminal branches of the pulmonary artery. The most important symptom is the sputum, which is copious and has a putrid, cadaveric odour. When collected in a glass it forms three layers : the uppermost frothy, muco-purulent, and of a greyish-green colour ; the middle watery and clear, or slightly turbid from shreds of mucus; the lowest dirty greyish-green, with pus and fragments of gan- grenous lung tissue and blood-clot. The gangrenous area is usually near the base, and the pleural cavity is generally pro- tected by adhesions over or around it. It may be localised by the X-rays, which also show whether there is more than onePULMONARY CAVITIES. 313 cavity. The results of operation are satisfactory, particularly in cases following pneumonia. Bronchiectasis consists in a dilatation of the bronchial tubes resulting in the formation of fusiform or saccular cavities in the lung, in which secretions accumulate and decompose. It is rarely amenable to operation unless the cavity is localised and saccular. Phthisical Cavities.—As incision and drainage of a tuber- culous abscess in the lung is no more likely to result in cure than similar treatment of a cold abscess elsewhere, it is not to be wondered at that so far the results of operation in this disease have been disappointing. To admit of contraction of a limited cavity in the apex of the lung, portions of the overlying ribs have been resected. For hydatid cysts of the lung, incision and drainage have proved highly satisfactory. Pneumonectomy.—Operations for the removal of tuberculous areas in the lung or of malignant tumours have been un- successful in the majority of cases in which they have been attempted. Primary carcinoma of the lung is occasionally met with, and may sometimes be recognised by the presence of tumour elements in the sputum or in the fluid withdrawn from the pleura. It is not amenable to surgical treatment. The Heart. Injuries.—In considering wounds of the heart it is necessary to distinguish between those which implicate only the walls of the organ and those which penetrate its cavities. Non- penetrating wounds are usually caused by stabs, or by a sharp fragment of a broken rib being driven into the heart. Pene- trating wounds may also result from stabs, but are most frequently due to gunshot injuries, and the bullet may either pass right through the heart or lodge in its substance. From its exposed position the right ventricle is the cavity most frequently injured. Needles sometimes pass into the heart, either through the chest wall or from the oesophagus, without doing much damage, and they may lodge and remain for long in the substance of the organ without causing symptoms. Wounds of the auricles are more speedily fatal than wounds of the ventricles, as the comparative thinness of the auricular walls favours the rapid escape of blood into the pericardium. Clinical Features.—Penetrating wounds usually prove rapidly314 THE CHEST. fatal from haemorrhage. The blood may escape in great quantity from the external wound, or may fill up the pericardium and arrest the heart by pressing upon it. In cases that are not immediately fatal the patient is profoundly collapsed, shows extreme pallor, and is often agitated and restless. Dyspnoea and other signs of “air hunger” are present. The heart’s action is tumultuous, irregular, and feeble, and on auscultation, whizzing, blowing, and other abnormal sounds may be heard. There may be signs of effusion of blood into the pericardium, or into the left pleura, as this cavity is often traversed by the wound. If the bleeding is arrested, recovery may take place by organisation of a clot in the wound, or by the formation of adhesions with the pericardium. In a considerable number of recorded cases death has occurred suddenly in from ten to four- teen days after the injury, from softening and displacement of occluding clots, either as a result of septic complications, or from the patient exerting himself too soon. In other cases septic pericarditis has been the cause of death. Treatment.—The primary indication is to reduce the force of the heart’s action as much as possible, in order that haemorrhage may cease and a reparative clot form in the wound. To this end absolute rest, bodily and mental, must be ensured, and morphin may be freely given if necessary. Exploration of the wound by finger or probe must be avoided, lest clots be disturbed and the bleeding start afresh. Low diet is given and thirst is relieved by enemata. Within recent years numerous operations have been performed with the object of suturing wounds of the heart, with results which are distinctly encouraging. The heart is exposed by resecting the fourth, fifth, and sixth costal cartil- ages, and the wound sutured with fine catgut, care being taken not to perforate the whole thickness of the wall, as haemorrhage is apt to take place along the tracks of the stitches. The pericardium is sutured after having been emptied of clots. The external wound is drained. Needles embedded in the wall of the heart may be extracted after having been localised by the X-rays. Pericardial Effusions.—When a serous effusion is exerting dangerous pressure on the heart and impeding its action, relief may be given by tapping the pericardium. A fine exploratory needle is introduced through the fifth interspace on the left side, either close to the sternum, or about an inch and a half from it, to avoid the pleura and internal mammary artery. When there is an excessive amount of fluid present it is not advisable to withdraw it all at one time.315 THE DIAPHRAGM. Purulent effusions are best treated by incision and drainage. The embarrassed condition of the heart usually forbids the use of a general anaesthetic. Before beginning the operation the heart may be relieved by tapping the pericardium. Au incision is then made in the fourth or fifth left interspace, and, if necessary, a portion of one of the adjacent costal cartilages is resected. The pericardium is opened and a drainage tube inserted. Care must be taken to avoid injuring the left pleura, which overlaps the pericardium to its outer side. The internal mammary artery is also liable to be injured in separating the costal cartilage. Pericardial adhesions, the result of chronic adhesive media- stinitis, may lead to indrawing of the wall of the thorax during systole, greatly increasing the strain upon the heart. Such adhesions may be freed after resecting portions of several ribs on the left side—cardiolysis. The Diaphragm. Injuries.—Open wounds are usually the result of gunshot injuries, stabs, or sabre cuts. As the lung does not extend as far down as the pleura, or the pleura as far as the diaphragm, it is possible for the diaphragm to be wounded alone, or along with the pleura, while the lung escapes. Subcutaneous rupture is rare. It usually occurs on the left side, and is produced by a sudden and great increase of the intra-abdominal pressure, as, for example, when a patient is crushed under a heavy weight, or is making violent muscular efforts in vomiting or during parturition. The jagged end of a fractured rib, and an unskilfully manipulated oesophageal bougie, have also been known to cause this injury. Clinical Features.—So far as the symptoms of injury to the diaphragm can be dissociated from those of the concomitant visceral lesions, they are : localised pain, haemorrhage, and shock. The pain is aggravated on deep inspiration or coughing, and causes the patient to restrain the action of the muscle as far as possible. Risus sardonicus, which is supposed to be peculiarly related to morbid conditions affecting the diaphragm, may be present. In many cases the abdominal viscera are displaced, and clinical evidence of their presence in the thoracic cavity is forthcoming. When the alimentary canal is ruptured septic complications ensue. As this muscle never is, and never can be at rest, its wounds316 THE CHEST. either fail to close, or they heal with a thin, weak and stretch- able cicatrix, which readily favours the formation of a hernial protrusion. When bowel is prolapsed, it is liable to become strangulated either at the time of the accident or later. In many cases the lesion is only discovered after death. In treating these injuries, attention is first directed to the associated lesions of the viscera. If practicable, the rent in the diaphragm should be sutured by the trans-pleural route. Diaphragmatic hernia is described later. Diaphragmatic pleurisy may closely simulate the onset of acute perforative peritonitis and other abdominal conditions— particularly appendicitis. Spread of infection through the diaphragm may take place either from the thoracic or abdominal side. An empyema, suppura- tive pericarditis or mediastinitis, for example, may spread through the diaphragm and infect the peritoneal cavity or the retro-peri- toneal connective tissue. When adhesions have formed the pus may form a sub-phrenic abscess, or may burst directly into the alimentary canal. On the other hand, a sub-phrenic abscess may burst into the pleura, the pericardium, or the mediastinum. The Mediastina. Mediastinitis is most commonly met with in the anterior mediastinum, and is usually due to the extension of inflamma- tion from an adjacent part. Among the sources of infection may be mentioned inflammatory affections of the larynx, trachea, thyroid, or oesophagus, disease of the ribs or sternum, abscess or gangrene of the lung, and inflammatory processes in the pleura or pericardium. There is pain behind the sternum and shooting through between the shoulder blades; the front of the chest is red and cedematous, and is tender on pressure. If pus forms, there may be shortness of breath, irregularity of the heart, and a general feeling of oppression. Rigors and sweating are common symptoms. The abscess may make its way towards the surface, and point in an intercostal space either near to the sternum or at some distance out. On the other hand it may burst into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pericardium, or the pleura. The treatment consists in opening the mediastinum by trephining the sternum, or by incising to one side of it and resecting as much bone as is necessary to ensure drainage. When an abscess forms in the posterior mediastinum it may point above the clavicle, and should be opened there. To reachMEDIASTINAL TUMOURS. 317 the pus from behind, it is necessary to resect one of the transverse processes and a portion of the adjacent rib, preferably on the right side. Tumours in the mediastinum, anti masses of tuberculous or malignant bronchial glands, are liable to press upon the air- passages and recurrent laryngeal nerve, particularly in children, and to give rise to difficulty in breathing, hoarseness, and a crowing cough. Such glands may also press upon the oeso- phagus and interfere with swallowing, or they may, after forming adhesions with its walls, drag upon it and give rise to one form of “traction diverticulum.”318 CHAPTER XXL THE BREAST. Surgical Anatomy — Clinical examination — Malformations: Amazia ; Micromazia; Polymazia; Diffuse hypertrophy; Gynecomazia— Affections of nipple and areola : Paget's disease—Inflammatory affections: Physiological engorgement; Puerperal mastitis and mammary abscess—Varieties of abscess; Chronic mastitis—Varieties; Tuberculosis; Actinomycosis — Neuralgia — Cysts: Galactocele ; Involution cysts ; Hydatid cysts—Tumours: Non-malignant: Fibro- adenoma — Duct papilloma — Malignant: Sarcoma — Carcinoma : Scirrhous; Atrophic; Colloid; Adenn - carcinoma; Acute cancer; Inoperable cancer. Surgical Anatomy.—The breast of the nulliparous female may be taken as the type. It is made up of (1) the parenchyma or gland tissue proper ; (2) the stroma or connective tissue framework, which supports the parenchyma, and in which the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves ramify ; and (3) the mammary fat, which lies in and around the stroma. Collectively these elements form a gland which consists of a central part—the corpus mammas, and a number of peripheral processes, which radiate in all directions into the surrounding adipose tissue. On the superficial aspect of the breast some of these processes pass, in the suspensory ligaments of Cooper, to the deeper layer of the skin ; while on the deep aspect others pass into the pectoral fascia, and sometimes even into the pectoral muscle. The mammary gland lies embedded in the superficial fascia of the chest wall, and extends vertically from the lower border of the second rib to the lower border of the sixth costal cartilage ; and horizontally from the edge of the sternum to the mid-axillary line. It overlies portions of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, serratus magnus, and external oblique muscles, from which it is separated by that portion of the deep fascia of the thorax known as the pectoral fascia. From the upper and outer quadrant a process of mammary tissue—referred to by Spence as the “axillary tail ”—passes into the axilla under cover of the pectoralis major as far as the third rib. The milk ducts open on the summit of the nipple. The nipjde is surrounded by the dark-coloured areola, in which are numerous small rudimentary milk glands. During pregnancy these glands become enlarged and form prominences on the areola. The blood-supply of the breast is derived chiefly from the long thoracic or external mammary branch of the axillary artery, and from the second,SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BREAST. 319 third, and fourth perforating branches of the internal mammary. The venous blood returns to the axillary, cephalic, and external jugular veins. The nerve-supply to the skin over the breast is derived from the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and the lateral and anterior cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The gland itself is supplied with sensation through the per- forating terminal branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intereostals. A knowledge of the lymphatic system of the breast is of great import- ance in relation to the question of the spread of cancer. The anastomosis between the different sets of lymphatic vessels in the breast being very free, malignant disease in any part of the mamma is readily disseminated throughout the gland and to surrounding structures. According to Stiles, the cutaneous lymphatics anastomose with the trunks which accompany the main lactiferous ducts in a large lymphatic plexus under the areola—the subareolar plexus of Sappey. The lymphatics of the subcutaneous fat that overlies the mamma occupy for the most part the ligaments of Cooper, and receive lymph, on the one hand from the deeper layers of the true skin, and on the other from the lymphatics in the more superficial parts of the breast. Then again the lymphatics of the posterior part of the gland and of the pectoral fascia communicate with one another. Eventually the lymph passes by large efferent trunks through the deep fascia to the lymphatic glands, the most important of which are situated in the axilla. These glands are arranged in groups : (1) the pectoral group, lying under the edge of the pectoralis major in the line of the long thoracic artery ; (2) the axillary group, accompanying the axillary vessels ; (3) the subscapular group, lying far back in the axilla with the vessels of the same name ; (4) the infra-clavicular group, lying in relation to the costo-coracoid membrane ; and (5) the supra- clavicular group, lying above the clavicle. Some of the efferent lym- phatics from the inner and upper part of the breast pass through the intercostal spaces and open into (6) the sternal glands lying alongside the internal mammary artery. Clinical Examination of the Breast.—To permit of a thorough examination of the breast, the patient should be seated on a chair, with the whole thorax exposed. It is to be borne in mind that the physical characters of the breast vary with the age of the woman, with her general build, and according to whether or not the gland has been functionally active. In the young nulliparous woman, the breast stands out from the front of the chest as a smooth, rounded prominence, which is composed of the corpus mammae and a varying thickness of subcutaneous fat. The margins of the gland are thick and well defined, and the organ is uni- formly firm in consistence. It can be moved freely on the surface of the pectoral muscles, from which it is separated only by a thin layer of con- nective tissue. The breast is surmounted by the nipple, which is soft and movable, and is surrounded by a pigmented areola of a delicate rose-colour. After the breast has been functionally active it loses its regular out- line, so that the body of the gland cannot be clearly differentiated from the peripheral processes, and it becomes looser in texture and irregular in consistence from the dejiosit of fat in the stroma. The quantity of retro-mammary fat increases, and the breast tends to become pendulous. After the menopause involution changes occur, the secreting sub- stance undergoes atrophy, and the breast, particularly towards its deeper parts, becomes coarse and knotty to the feel. In spare women theTHE BREAST. 320 corpus mammae becomes firm and flattened out, the subcutaneous fat over it disappears, and the gland lies in close apposition with the pectoral muscles. In stout women, on the other hand, the breast tissue is replaced almost entirely by masses of fat, and, as the adipose tissue both behind and in front of the gland is greatly increased in amount, the whole organ is soft and pendulous. After inspecting the breasts, and noting any asymmetry or other abnormal appearance that-may be present, the parts are examined by palpation, the surgeon standing either by the side of the patient or behind her. First the condition of the skin may be noted, to deter- mine if there be any abnormal attachment to the breast, or to any tumour that may be present. Dimpling of the skin is in some cases visible to the eye, but in others can only be detected on an attempt being made to pinch up or to stretch the skin. The condition of the nipple must also be noted to see if it he unduly adherent to the breast or retracted. As the two nipples are often not equally prominent, inquiry should always be made of the patient as to the history and duration of any apparent retraction that may be observed. The breast should then be palpated, its size, disposition, and consistence being noted, first by grasping it between the fingers, and then by pressing firmly against it with the flat of the hand. Should any tumour be detected, its size, shape, and consistence must be determined, as well as its relation to the skin, the nipple, and the gland tissue. The arm should be abducted to a right angle to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch, and the mobility of the breast on the chest wall tested, by moving the gland first from side to side, and then up and down. At the same time it should be observed whether the tumour can be moved independently of the breast or only with it. The consistence of a tumour in the breast is best determined by pressing it back against the chest wall with the flat of the hand while the patient’s arm is abducted. The condition of the various groups of lymphatic glands in the axilla and above the clavicle should next be noted. Malformations. Complete absence of one or both breasts—amazia—occasion- ally occurs. It is usually met with in males, and is generally unilateral, affecting most frequently the left side. The sternal fibres of the pectoralis major and the subjacent portion of the chest wall are often imperfectly developed in these cases, and sometimes the whole upper extremity on the affected side is defective. Congenital absence of the nipple—athelia—is more common than amazia, and is usually bilateral. The condition known as micromazia, in which the infantile type of mamma persists after puberty, is usually associated with a deficiency in the organs of generation, as well as in the pectoral muscles and chest wall. The occurrence of supernumerary breasts—polymazia or 'poly- mastia— or of supernumerary nipples—polythelia—is by no means uncommon. These accessory structures are usually321 MALFORMATIONS. situated on the chest wall, the upper part of the abdominal wall, or in the axillae, but they have been met with on the shoulder, the buttock, the thigh, and in other extraordinary positions. As a rule they are functionless. Removal is only called for when the supernumerary organ, for example an axillary mamma, gives rise to pain or discomfort when in. a state of physiological engorgement. Diffuse hypertrophy of the breast is comparatively seldom met with in this country, but is not uncommon in the tropics. The enlargement, which is due chiefly to an increased develop- ment of the fibrous and fatty elements of the breast, and to a less extent of the glandular tissue, is almost always bi- lateral, and usually manifests itself either at the age of puberty or in the early months of pregnancy. Some- times the breasts attain an enormous size, hanging down over the abdomen, and in some cases even reaching to the thighs. Pain is seldom a prominent feature, but the patient may be seriously inconven- ienced by the size and weight of the organs. In the early stages, and particularly when it is unilateral, this condition is liable to be mistaken for a rapidly growing- tumour. In most cases the only available treatment is amputa- tion. An interval should be allowed to elapse between the operations on the two breasts, as the operation is a severe one, and is usually attended with considerable bleeding. The term gynecomazia or gynecomastia is applied to a hyper- trophy of the mamma which is occasionally met with in the male (Fig. 85). The condition may be unilateral or bilateral, and affects chiefly the stroma of the gland. The breasts Fio. 85.—Gynecomazia in a lad aged 15. VOL II.—21THE BREAST. 322 seldom become larger than an ordinary nnlliparous female breast. It is frequently associated with congenital malformations of the sexual organs. If the breasts are so large as to constitute a deformity, they may be excised. Affections of the Nipple and Areola. One or both nipples may be abnormally small or depressed, either congenitally or as a result of cicatricial contraction follow- ing an abscess, with the result that suckling is rendered difficult, and the irritation produced by the efforts of the child causes cracks and fissures to form, and so predisposes to mastitis. As a rule the nipple can be withdrawn sufficiently to enable it to be used for nursing, by systematic gentle traction and the use of a breast pump. Cracks and fissures of the nipple are of importance from the fact that they are often the starting-point of acute mastitis and mammary abscess. They usually develop during lactation, as a result of injury inflicted by the child while suckling, or in association with eczema of the areola. On account of the soft and delicate nature of the areolar skin, the moist condition of the parts, and the repeated irritation to which they are subjected, these fissures are prevented from healing, and are liable to become infected with micro-organisms, which are so abundant in the cutaneous glands in this region. The infection spreads along the lymphatics to the breast, setting up acute mastitis, which may end in suppuration. The pain caused by suckling is frequently so severe as to cause the patient to desist from nursing, with the result that the gland becomes engorged and the tendency to inflammation is thereby increased. Fissures can usually be prevented by adopting 'prophylactic measures during the later months of pregnancy. Care must be taken, for example, that the corset does not press unduly on the parts ; and the nipple, if retracted, should be gradually withdrawn by traction or by suction with a breast pump. It must be kept scrupulously clean by frequent washing with a mild antiseptic lotion, and after being dried should be bathed with methylated spirit or eau-de-Cologne. During lactation the parts should be washed with boracic lotion after nursing, dried, and dusted with boracic powder. If the fissures are very painful they may be painted with cocain, and an artificial nipple should be worn during suckling. Any inflammatory condition of the child’s mouth should be corrected, lest it prove a source of infection of the nipple.AFFECTIONS OF THE NIPPLE AND AREOLA. 323 Syphilitic affections of the nipple are comparatively rare. A primary chancre is occasionally met with on the nipple or areola of a healthy woman who has acted as wet-nurse to a syphilitic infant. One or both nipples may be affected, and it is not un- common for the sores to be multiple. The chancre is seldom typical, and varies from a shallow fissure to a large indurated and ulcerated surface. The axillary glands are enlarged and hard, and other evidence of syphilitic infection is soon manifest. Paget’s Disease of the Nipple and Areola.—In 1871, Paget described a peculiar inflammatory affection of the skin of the nipple and areola, which, in the great majority of cases, is followed by the development of cancer in the breast, the tumour being of the ordinary scirrhous variety. The disease is now known to be a superficial carcinoma of the skin. In the majority of cases it begins around the orifices of the milk ducts as a bright red excoriation, which gradually spreads over the areola and on to the skin of the breast, till it forms a florid patch which, in Paget’s words, has an appearance “like that of an acute balanitis.” The epidermis covering this patch desquamates, the skin becoming red and thin, and discharging a yellow, viscid fluid, which dries on the surface and forms scabs and crusts, particularly towards the edges of the patch. The affected area is slightly raised and indurated, and its sinuous margin is sharply defined. When picked up between the fingers and thumb it has a peculiar parchment-like feeling. The nipple also is indurated, and may be retracted or even destroyed by ulceration. In some cases the condition is due to a tumour in the substance of the breast, spreading along the ducts and invading the skin. The disease is usually met with in women between forty and sixty. It runs a slow course, there is no vesication or itching as in ordinary eczema, but the condition is attended with tingling or burning pain. The treatment is the same as for cancer of the breast. Other tumours of the nipple, such as papillomata, angiomata, epitheliomata, and sarcomata have been observed, but they are rare. Infi.ammatory Affections of the Breast. Physiological Engorgement.—At birth the gland is com- posed entirely of a series of radiating ducts with club-shaped extremities, but with no well-developed acini, and the epi- thelium of these ducts sometimes undergoes an active proliferation during early infancy—so-called mastitis neonatorum. The gland324 THE BREAST. becomes swollen, firm, and tender, and a few drops of milky fluid may be expressed from the nipple. It may happen that the nurse, acting upon the popular belief that it is necessary under these conditions to “ break the nipple strings ” by vigorous rubbing, irritates and infects the parts, with the result that suppuration ensues. About the time of puberty the ducts increase in number and become branched, the acini begin to develop, and associated with this change, particularly in females, one or both breasts may become engorged, tense, and painful—mastitis of adolescents. During pregnancy a great increase in the acini takes place, and is accompanied by engorgement of the breast. An extreme degree of physiological engorgement may also occur during lactation, when, for example, the milk is retained owing to imperfect formation of the nipples, blocking of the ducts, or failure of the child to suck—milk engorgement. The breast becomes swollen and painful, the skin over it is congested, and the superficial veins prominent. On palpation it is found to be firm and tender. The temperature may be raised to 100° or .101° F. These conditions are only related to inflammation as pre- disposing factors, and in so far as they furnish a suitable nidus for the development of any organisms that may gain access to the breast. In puerperal cases the most important step in treatment is the withdrawal of the milk, which may be effected by the aid of a breast pump. The child should be weaned, and the further secretion of milk arrested by the administration of saline purga- tives and of potassium iodide and belladonna. The breast should be protected by a wool dressing and supported by an ascending spica bandage, the arm on the affected side being supported. If suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened and drained. It occasionally happens that an acute congestion of the breast occurs in association with an attack of mumps or of one of the other acute infective diseases. The condition is usually transient, and seldom ends in suppuration. Puerperal Mastitis and Mammary Abscess.—In a consider- able proportion of cases of acute physiological engorgement of the breast occurring in puerperal women, a suppurative inflam- mation supervenes, and ends in the production of a mammary abscess. This usually occurs in women between the ages of twenty and thirty, and as a rule during the first six weeks of lactation. Infection usually takes place through a crack or325 MAMMARY ABSCESS. fissure of the nipple, and the organisms are derived either from the surrounding skin or from the mouth of the suckling, and gain access to the breast tissue by way of the lymphatics or along the milk ducts. The staphylococcus aureus is the organism most frequently present. The abscess may form under the areola—pre-mammary abscess, or in the substance of the breast — intra-mammary abscess. Clinical Features.—A pre-mammary abscess may begin as a superficial cellulitis, or as a suppurative inflammation of a sebaceous gland or mammary lobule under the areola. Pus forms rapidly, often with comparatively little pain or constitu- tional disturbance, and the abscess soon bursts through the skin. The intra-mammary abscess is the form most frequently met with. For one or two days the patient complains that a par- ticular part of the breast feels hot, tense, and tender, and that when the child is at the breast she has severe lancinating pain in it. Eventually the pain becomes constant, and assumes a throbbing character. The temperature may rise to 102° or 103“ F., and there is usually a feeling of chilliness or even a rigor. At first there is a diffuse redness over the breast, and a deep- seated swelling, which is uniformly firm and tense, may be recognised. With the onset of suppuration the redness becomes more dusky, and over the seat of the abscess the swelling becomes soft and more prominent, until at last fluctuation can be detected. In the deeper parts of the breast the pus may burrow in various directions and form a multiloculated abscess cavity. Finally the pus finds its way to the surface, usually in the region of the areola, where the skin becomes thin and glazed and ultimately gives way. Occasionally both breasts are affected, either simultaneously or more frequently one after the other. Treatment.—In the early stages the condition may be treated by warm antiseptic fomentations, or by Bier’s congestion method by means of a suction bell. When pus has formed incision is called for. A pre-mammary abscess should be opened by a small incision radiating from the nipple, and drained by means of a few strands of iodoform worsted. As soon as an intra-mammary abscess can be diagnosed with certainty, it also should be incised. As the communication between the deeper part of the abscess and the part which points on the surface is often a long narrow channel, the whole abscess has roughly the shape of a collar-stud. It is not suffi- cient, therefore, merely to open the superficial part of the326 THE BREAST. abscess. The whole cavity should be freely incised—the incisions always radiating from the nipple, to avoid cutting across the ducts—and counter-openings should be made, if necessary, to ensure efficient drainage. The finger should be passed into the abscess and the septa broken down. After clearing out all pus and sloughs, glass or rubber drainage tubes are inserted. These should be removed as early as possible to prevent the formation of persistent sinuses. If bleeding is troublesome, the wound should be packed. If sinuses have formed they should be slit up, purified, and packed with iodoform worsted. In some cases the breast is so completely disorganised that complete removal is the only efficient means of treatment. Retro-mammary Abscess.—When pus forms in the areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle, the abscess is spoken of as retro-mammary. Although this sometimes follows on puerperal inflammation, it is more frequently due to pyogenic infection of a hsematoma, or results from the bursting of an empyema through the .chest wall. A cold abscess forming in connection with tuberculous disease of the ribs may burrow into the retro-mammary space. The whole breast is pushed bodily forward by the pus behind it, and stands out in bold relief from the chest, and fluctuation can be detected towards the periphery of the gland. If left to point, the pus usually reaches the surface at the most dependent part of the periphery of the breast, the situation varying, of course, with the attitude assumed by the patient. The commonest situation is at the lower and outer part of the breast. Chronic Non-tuberculous Abscess.—A chronic non-tubercu- lous abscess is occasionally met with in the breast of married women past middle life, and is liable to be mistaken for a cyst or a new growth. Such an abscess may be due to infection of a hsematoma resulting from injury, to suppuration in a retention cyst, or to recrudescence of a former acute abscess—residual abscess. The organisms may be introduced either by way of the lymphatics or through the blood-stream. Clinically, it forms a firm elastic swelling in the substance of the breast, and, the wall of the abscess being thick and fibrous, fluctuation as a rule is not detectable. There is slight tenderness on pressure, and sometimes a throbbing pain. The skin over the abscess may be cedematous, the nipple is often retracted, and a purulent fluid may sometimes be expressed from it. The axillary glands are usually enlarged and tender. The treatment consists in cutting down upon the abscess, and327 CHRONIC MASTITIS. if possible dissecting it out entire. If this is impossible, it is opened, the walls scraped, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. Chronic Mastitis.—The term chronic interstitial mastitis is applied to an affection of the breast which is of the nature of a fibrosis, and which primarily implicates the stroma of the gland. The inter-lobular and inter-acinous connective tissue becomes densely sclerosed, and the fatty tissue and parenchyma are largely replaced by fibrous tissue. There is little or no proliferation of the epithelial elements, and there is no tendency to the formation of cysts. This form of the disease is comparatively rare, and it runs a very chronic course. It is met with in married, as well as in single women, usually about the time of the menopause. As a rule only one breast is affected, and there is no history of a definite injury or of a previous inflammation. For a time—it may be several months, or even two or three years—the whole breast gradually increases in size and becomes firmer than normal, without forming adhesions to the pectoral fascia or to the overlying skin. Eventually it ceases to grow, and the gland undergoes cicatricial atrophy, causing retraction of the nipple and puckering of the skin by dragging on the ducts and suspensory ligaments of Cooper. The condition is usually painless, and the axillary glands are not enlarged. It is very liable to be mistaken for a diffuse carcinoma, and in many cases the differential diagnosis is all but impossible without the evidence afforded by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—In the early stages the application of a bella- donna plaster or of the liniment of the iodide of potassium sometimes proves useful. Mercurial inunction and the internal administration of iodides should be tried when there is reason to suspect a syphilitic element. When these means are ineffectual an exploratory incision should be made, and if the diagnosis remains uncertain the gland should be excised. Circumscribed Chronic Interstitial Mastitis.—It is not un- common to find a localised patch of chronically indurated breast tissue in women who have prolonged suckling unduly, or who have sustained some injury to the mamma. A similar condition may be met with after an abscess has been evacuated, after suppuration in an operation wound, or when a foreign body, such as a needle, is embedded in the breast. The importance of recognising this condition lies in the fact that it is very liable to be mistaken for a circumscribed cancer. The differential diagnosis is always difficult, and in many casesTHE BREAST. 328 can only be made by exploratory incision. The points upon which we may rely are that in chronic interstitial mastitis the nodule is tender on pressure, is less hard and dense than a scirrhous tumour, and its outline is not so well defined. The swelling can be recognised best by picking it up between the fingers and thumb; when it is pressed firmly against the chest wall with the flat of the hand it is less distinct, and appears to be lost in the rest of the mammary tissue. It can be lifted up from the subjacent pectoral fascia, and, except when it results from a previous abscess, is not attached to the skin. A scirrhous tumour, on the other hand, is densely hard, has a well-defined outline, and these points are best appreciated when the mass is pressed against the chest wall; it is seldom tender on pressure, and the skin is usually tacked down to the tumour. In both conditions the nipple may or may not be retracted, and the axillary glands may or may not be enlarged. Chronic lobular mastitis, or multiple cystic disease, affects chiefly the parenchyma, that is, the acini and ducts of the gland, but the inter-acinous connective tissue is also implicated to some extent. As the disease progresses, proliferative and degenera- tive changes take place in the epithelial elements, with the result that numerous cysts form in the parenchyma—hence the term multiple cystic disease. In some cases small fibro-ade- nomatous nodules form in the inter-acinous connective tissue. Small warty growths frequently project into the interior of the cysts—intra-cystic growths. The lobular form of mastitis is more common than the interstitial. It usually occurs in women between the ages of thirty and forty who have not borne children, and affects both breasts either simultaneously or one after the other. There may be a history of dysmenorrhoea, or of some ovarian or uterine disturbance, but there is seldom any local cause dis- coverable. At first the patient merely experiences a sensation of fulness and uneasiness in the breast, later there are stinging pains which shoot through towards the shoulder or down the arm, and the breast becomes tender to the touch. These symptoms are worst during menstruation. On palpation the breast tissue is found to be firmer than normal, and to have a character- istically' coarse or knotty feel, which is best recognised by grasping it between the fingers and thumb. If there is a localised swelling which resembles a tumour it becomes less evident when the breast is pressed against the chest wall. One or more of the small cysts may enlarge sufficiently to form aTUBERCULOSIS. 329 definite tumour or lump. The breast is freely movable on the pectoral fascia and the skin is not implicated. The axillary glands may be enlarged and tender. The induration may disappear when the parenchyma atrophies at the menopause, but usually the enlargement of one or more cysts necessitates operative interference. In exceptional cases a carcinoma supervenes. Treatment.—li there is the least doubt as to the innocent nature of the condition, an exploratory incision should be made, and if an examination of the parts exposed does not remove the doubt, the breast should be amputated. If cysts are present, also, and particularly if they are found to contain intra-cystic growths, the breast should be removed, but it is not necessary to clear out the axilla. If an operation is declined, the application of a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage is useful in soothing the part and in preventing the patient handling it. Tuberculosis of the Breast.—Tuberculous disease of the breast is rare. It is occasionally met with in the form of numerous caseating nodules scattered throughout the gland — the disseminated form—but more frequently as a single irregular abscess cavity, resulting from the coalescence of several of these caseating nodules—the confluent form. The bacilli may reach the breast in the blood - stream by metastasis from some tuberculous lesion elsewhere, for example, in the lungs or pleura; or the infection may take place by way of the milk ducts or lymphatics passing from the nipple. In other cases the mammary tissue becomes infected by direct spread of a tuberculous focus from the ribs, sternum, pleura, or axillary glands. Clinical Features.—The disease is almost invariably met with in women between the ages of twenty-live and thirty-five, and as a rule the patient suffers from some other tuberculous lesion. The condition is usually unilateral. Its onset is slow and insidious, and, not being attended with pain, the disease is usually well established ere it is recognised. In the early stages the breast is swollen, brawny, and nodular; later, several small areas of softening appear, and run together, forming an irregular, ill-defined mass in the substance of the breast. Gradually the swelling reaches the subcutaneous tissue and invades the skin, which ultimately gives way at one or more points, forming sinuses with characteristically undermined edges. The axillary glands are almost always infected, in some cases even before the swelling in the breast is recognisable.330 THE BREAST. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the affected glands. Actinomycosis has occasionally been met with in the breast. Clinically it closely simulates tuberculous disease. The diagnosis is made by finding the ray fungus in the discharge. Excision of the whole mamma is the best line of treatment. Neuralgia of the breast or mastodynia is a condition usually met with in neurotic young women, who suffer at the same time from disturbances of the generative organs. The pain, which is usually worst during the menstrual period, is described by the patient as being very severe, and of a burning or shooting character. As a rule it affects only one breast, and this is excessively tender even to the gentlest touch. In the majority of cases no local cause for the pain can be discovered. In others, however, it appears to be associated with the presence in the breast of an area of chronic mastitis, a small cyst, or a sub- cutaneous neuro - fibroma. When any such definite cause is discovered, it should be removed. When no local abnormality is present, the patient should be reassured that the condition is not cancerous—a point on which she is usually extremely anxious —and the general health should be improved by tonics and change of air and scene. Any pelvic disorder that may be present must also be corrected. Locally, a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage should be applied to prevent handling of the breast. - Cysts. Multiple cystic disease, which is so often associated with chronic lobular mastitis, and cystic degeneration of new growths are described elsewhere. Of the cysts which form apart from these conditions, the most important are galactoceles, involution cysts, and hydatid cysts. A galactocele is a retention cyst formed by dilatation of one of the main ducts or lacteal sinuses, which has become occluded by cicatricial contraction in or around its walls. The contents consist of the constituents of milk variously altered, and may be fluid or semi-solid. The cyst, which is usually single, forms near the areola usually during lactation or pregnancy, and increases rapidly, forming a smooth, rounded, or oval swelling, which varies in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange. The consistence of the swelling varies with the contents, but it is usually soft and elastic. When lactation ceases the swelling may disappear, butFIBROADENOMA. 331 is liable to re-form if the breast again becomes active. There is no retraction of the nipple, the axillary glands are not enlarged, and, as a rule, there is no pain. During pregnancy or lactation it is not necessary to interfere with these cysts unless they are increasing rapidly and causing discomfort. Under these conditions the child should be weaned and the secretion of milk arrested. The cyst may then either be opened and drained, or excised. Involution Cysts. -During the normal process of involution which occurs at the menopause, small cysts frequently develop as a result of obstruction of minute ducts or acini. They contain a clear, serous fluid or a dark brown, mucoid substance, and are known as involution cysts. It is probable that in most cases the so-called serous or lymphatic cysts—formerly believed to be due to dilatation of lymph spaces—are of the nature of involution cysts. These cysts are frequently multiple, and are most abundant towards the periphery of the breast and on its deep surface. They form smooth, rounded or oval swellings, varying in size from a cherry to a walnut, are movable with the breast, but not independently of it, and are not attached to the skin. When the fluid is under considerable tension these cysts are liable to be mistaken for solid tumours, and, as a rule, it is only on making an exploratory incision that the diagnosis is arrived at. If single, the cyst along with the breast tissue immediately surrounding it may be excised either through a skin incision, or by throwing up the breast (p. 333); but when they are multiple the whole breast should be removed. Hydatid cysts of the breast are rare. They usually suppurate, and are seldom diagnosed before being operated upon. Tumours of the Breast. The most important of the non-mcdignant tumours are the fibro-adenoma, in its various forms, and the duct papilloma. Lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, and angioma are so rare that it is not necessary to refer to them further. Fibro-adenoma. —This tumour is composed partly of fibrous and partly of glandular tissue. The glandular element consists of numerous branching tubes and irregular acinous spaces, the epithelium being arranged on the same plan as that of the normal gland tissue, and showing no tendency to spread beyond its basement membrane. Between the epithelial masses is a variable quantity of fibrous connective tissue in which the blood-vessels332 THE BREAST. ramify. The tumour is known as a soft or as a hard fibro- adenomaaccording as the glandular or the fibrous element pre- dominates. In the substance of a soft fibro-adenoma cystic dilatations filled with mucoid fluid sometimes form—cysto-adenoma—and in some cases papilliform growths project into the interior of the cysts—proliferous cysto-adenoma. Clinical Features.—The hard fibro-adenoma is the variety most commonly met with, and it usually occurs in unmarried Pig. 86.—Cystic Adenoma of Right Breast in a woman, ast. 64. (Mr. Annandale’s case.) women between twenty and thirty years of age. It forms a rounded or oval swelling, usually about the size of a pigeon’s egg, smooth or slightly nodular on the surface, and freely movable within the breast substance. As it is completely en- capsulated it forms no attachments either to the skin or to the chest wall. The nipple is not retracted nor the axillary glands enlarged. Beyond an occasional shooting pain when the breast is handled or pressed upon, the patient suffers no discomfort. The soft form presents very much the same characters save that it is less firm and may attain a greater size. The cystic and proliferous forms usually occur in women333 SARCOMA. between forty and fifty years of age. They may attain con- siderable size, and give to the breast a lobulated appearance (Fig. S6). They grow more rapidly than the solid fibro- adenoma, and in the cystic portions of the tumour fluctuation may be recognised. The skin over the cysts may be of a bluish colour, and is usually traversed by large dilated veins. The treatment for all forms of fibro-adenoma is excision. The tumour is pinched up between the fingers and thumb, an incision radiating from the nipple is carried down to the growth, which can usually be readily shelled out of its capsule. After bleeding has been arrested the wound is completely closed When the tumour is deeply placed in the lower segment of the breast, the scar may be hidden by making the incision in the thoracico-mammary fold, and, after throwing up the breast, reaching the tumour from the posterior surface of the corpus mammae (Gaillard Thomas). The cystic forms call for removal of the breast. Duct Papilloma.—Pedunculated papillomata sometimes grow from the walls of the larger ducts and lacteal sinuses. They may be single or multiple, and are usually met with in multiparse who have nursed their children for an unduly long period. The distended duct forms a small, firm, elastic tumour in the region of the areola. The escape of a clear or blood-stained fluid from the nipple serves to distinguish these tumours from fibro- adenomata. This discharge may be noticed for some months before any tumour is palpable. When the tumour is single and limited in size, the treatment consists in removing it along with the immediately adjacent breast tissue. When multiple, the whole breast should be removed. Malignant Tumours.—Sarcoma of the breast is compara- tively rare. It is met with at all ages, but generally before the age of forty. The tumour is usually of the spindle or round- celled variety, and is made up entirely of embryonic mesoblastic tissue. Any glandular elements that may be present are not of new formation, but merely represent portions of the original breast tissue which have been surrounded by the new growth. Cysts frequently develop in the substance of these tumours as a result of degeneration and of haemorrhage. In the early stages a sarcoma is usually more or less com- pletely surrounded by condensed fibrous tissue, which forms an apparent capsule to the growth. The tumour cannot, however, be shelled out of this capsule, which is directly continuous on the one hand with the stroma of the breast, and on the other with that of the new growth.THE BREAST. 334 Clinical Features.—The tumour appears as a rounded swelling in the substance of the breast. There is no retraction of the nipple, and at first the skin is not implicated nor the axillary glands enlarged. The tumour, which is comparatively soft, cannot be moved apart from the corpus mammae. For some months the swelling may remain almost stationary and then begin to grow, rapidly infiltrating the whole organ. The skin over the breast becomes stretched, assumes a dusky red hue, and has large veins coursing through it. The axillary glands become enlarged and soft. There is often some general rise of temperature. Dissemination may take place through the blood-stream to the lungs, liver, brain, or other internal organs. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the axillary glands on the same lines as for carcinoma, but in the rapidly growing varieties the prognosis is extremely unfavourable. Carcinoma.^—In the great majority of cases carcinoma of the breast originates in the epithelium of the acini, and the tumour is made up of masses of atypical epithelial cells surrounded by a varying amount of connective tissue. While it is convenient for clinical purposes to distinguish between different forms of cancer of the breast according to the relative amount of the epithelial and connective-tissue elements present, the disposition of these elements, the rate of growth of the tumour, and the extent to which it implicates the corpus mammae, it is to be borne in mind that these forms are merely variations of one and the same disease. Females suffer from cancer of the breast more frequently than males in the proportion of something like fifty to one. The age incidence varies in different forms, but it may be stated generally that the younger the patient the less favourable is the prognosis. The axillary hemisphere is more frequently the seat of cancer than the sternal hemisphere • in the latter situation the prognosis is worse than in the former. In a considerable proportion of cases the patient has previously suffered from puer- peral mastitis and mammary abscess. In some instances there is a definite history of a blow or other injury preceding the appearance of the tumour, but the importance of the role played by these antecedent conditions is difficult to determine. There is evidence in favour of the view that there is an hereditary proclivity to the disease. Scirrhous Carcinoma.—This is by far the most common form of cancer of the breast. In it the connective-tissue elements predominate, while the masses of epithelial cells are compara- tively few in number and small in size. Towards the centre of the tumour the epithelial clusters are compressed by contraction335 CARCINOMA. of the newly-formed fibrous tissue, and undergo fatty degenera- tion. Towards the periphery the stroma is less dense and the epithelial masses are larger and more numerous. They till the a b Fig. 87.—Section of Breast removed for Scirrhous Cancer from a woman, set. 40. (a) Retracted nipple. O') Tumour. (c) Pectoral muscle. smaller acini, and, after bursting through the basement membrane, invade the lymph spaces of the stroma. The tissues immediately surrounding the tumour are usually infiltrated with leucocytes. On a section being made through the tumour there is a characteristic creaking sensation as the knife divides the tissue, and thecut surfaces become slightly concave owing to contraction of the dense fibrous tissue in the centre of the growth. Towards the centre, the section presents a greyish- white, striated appearance, closely re sembling that of an unripe pear, and scattered over it there are usually several yellow spots due to fatty degeneration of the epi- thelial elements. Towards the periphery the tissue is softer, of a bluish or pinkish colour, and shows numerous m inute haemorrhagic points. Clinical Features.—This form of carcinoma is usu- ally met with in women between the ages of thirty- PlG 88._Scirrhous cancer of the Breast in five and fifty, and it often a man, aet. 50, with oedema of upper ex- begins while the patient is tremity from enlarged axillary glands, still menstruating regularly. (Mr. Scot-Skirving's case.)THE BREAST. 336 It sometimes occurs in patients below thirty. It is also occa- sionally met with in the male (Fig. 88). The pathological and clinical features of the disease are the same in both sexes. The most common site is the upper and outer quadrant of the breast, but it may occur in any part of the gland. Some- times there is more than one nodule in the breast. Fig. 89.—Breast, the seat of Scirrhous Carcinoma, showing retraction of nipple, and tacking down of skin over the tumour. Woman, set. 45. In its early stages the condition is quite painless, and the existence of the tumour is usually discovered accidentally. In some cases indrawing of the nipple or dimpling of the skin over the breast first attracts the patient’s attention. As the disease progresses the patient experiences a dull, aching pain, with occasional sharp twinges shooting through towards the shoulder, up into the neck, or down the inner side of the arm. On palpation a more or less circumscribed and fairly well-CARCINOMA. 337 defined tumour of stony hardness may be felt in the substance of the breast. Not being encapsulated, it cannot be moved apart from the breast. When firmly pressed against the chest wall with the flat of the hand, the tumour becomes more evident, and its stony hardness is fully appreciated. The skin over the growth may for a long time remain free, but, as the disease progresses, it becomes tacked down, and is later dimpled by contraction of the suspensory liga- ments of Cooper (Fig. 89). When the skin becomes invaded by the tumour, it assumes a characteristically coarse and indur- ated appearance, aptly compared to that of the skin of an orange or to pig’s skin. When the tumour is near the centre of the breast, it causes re- traction of the nipple by dragging on the large ducts. Glandular infec- tion may take place at any time in the course of the disease. In many cases, and particularly in fat women, the glands cannot be palpated through the skin even although they are enlarged. Glandular enlargement is usually most marked in ulcerating cancers. The pectoral group are usually the first to become enlarged, later the axillary, the sub-clavicular, the supra-clavicular, and the subscapular groups are infected. In course of time the enlargement and matting together of the axillary glands, by obstructing the lymph flow and pressing on the large veins, leads to great swelling of the upper extremity (Fig. 90). The nerve trunks also are pressed upon and severe pain results. Fig. 90.—Advanced Ulcerating Cancer of Breast, with extensive involvement of the Lymphatics causing elephantiasis of the arm. (Mr. Annandale's case.) VOL. II.—22338 THE BREAST. Bilateral carcinoma sometimes occurs. As a rule, one breast is attacked some time after the other, probably as a result of direct spread across the middle line by way of the lymphatics. Course and Terminations.—If left untreated, the tumour infiltrates the skin, and may ulcerate through it, forming an irregular, excavated ulcer with an indurated base and raised and everted edges—the crateriform ulcer. The discharge from such an ulcer is thin and watery, and may become foetid and offensive. At the same time the tumour invades the retro- mammary fat and becomes adherent to the pectoral fascia and muscles of the chest wall, producing the characteristic fixation of the breast. Occasionally a tumour develops in the opposite breast. Numerous cancerous nodules may appear in the skin, and spread till they form a hard, brawny patch, which may involve a large area of the chest wall, rendering it leathery and rigid—cancer en cuirasse. The disease may spread to the anterior mediastinum, either directly through the chest wall or by way of lymphatics. Metastatic deposits may occur in different parts of the body, the spread taking place either through the lymphatic system or, as Goldmann has shown, by direct invasion of the veins in the neighbourhood of the tumour. Metastatic growths seldom occur within two years of the mammary tumour first being noticed. The organs most fre- quently invaded are the liver, the pleura, the lungs, the stomach, and the bones — particularly the vertebras and sternum, the humerus and femur. The advanced stages of the disease are attended with severe pain, in marked contrast to the painlessness of the early stages, and the patient loses sleep. She presents the so-called cancerous cachexia, becoming emaciated, worn, feeble and anxious, with dry, yellow or earthy-coloured skin. Death usually takes place from pain and want of sleep. When the tumour has ulcerated, septic absorption occurs and may hasten the patient’s end. Sometimes the fatal issue is determined by a metastatic growth occurring in a vital organ. Atrophic Scirrhus.—This form of cancer is usually met with in patients beyond the age of sixty-five. It is characterised by its extreme hardness, the slowness of its growth, and the long course the disease may run—the patient in some cases living as long as fifteen or twenty years after the appearance of the tumour. It may occur as a single small nodule in the substance of the breast, or may affect the whole of the gland. The nipple is usually deeply retracted, and, in the diffuse variety, the breast forms a small, hard, projecting lump firmly fixed to the chest339 VARIETIES OF CANCER, wall, and having the skin firmly adherent to it. The axillary glands may remain free of infection for several years, but eventually they become enlarged and hard, particularly if the growth ulcerates. Colloid Cancer.—In rare cases carcinomatous tumours of the breast are of the colloid variety. The tumour, which is smooth, rounded and densely hard, projects from the surface of the breast, and is characterised clinically by its slow growth and low degree of malignancy. The axillary glands are only implicated late in the disease, and metastases are seldom met with. The prognosis after operation is more favourable than in any other form of breast cancer. Adeno-carcinoma.—Under this term Halsted has described a tumour of the breast which is made up of “large tubular spaces lined with many layers of epithelial cells.” The condition is usually met with in women between fifty-live and sixty years of age. The tumour is larger, softer and more vascular than the scirrhous variety, and it tends to fungate through the skin, forming a pedunculated swelling. The axillary glands are seldom, if ever, implicated, and the tumour is much less malignant than the scirrhous form of carcinoma. Acute, Encephaloid, or Medullary Cancer.—In this form of carcinoma the epithelial elements predominate, while the stroma is scanty, soft, and vascular. From the rapidity of growth of the tumour the condition is sometimes spoken of as “ acute cancer.” The terms “encephaloid” and “medullary” refer to the homogeneous, brain-like appearance of the tumour on section, but as this appearance is also seen in sarcomata, and in other forms of tumours as a result of mucoid and haemorrhagic degeneration, these terms are liable to lead to confusion. Acute cancer is usually met with in women below the age of thirty, and in many cases appears during pregnancy or lactation. A swelling forms in the breast, and rapidly increases in size till the whole gland is implicated. The skin over the breast is invaded early and assumes a characteristically coarse “ orange- peel like ” appearance, and outlying nodules of cancer soon appear in the skin of the chest wall. Involvement of the axillary glands takes place soon after the tumour appears, and the disease usually proves fatal from metastatic growths within a few months of the onset. When the disease occurs during lactation, the skin is red and hot, and as there is a general rise of temperature, the condition is liable to be mistaken for mastitis or a mammary abscess. The prognosis is so unfavourable that operation is seldom to be recommended.THE BREAST. 340 Radical Operation for Cancer of the Breast.—The only treatment is complete removal of the breast and of all the adjacent tissues to which the disease is liable to spread. The researches of Heidenliain, Stiles, and other shave shown that in order to prevent local recurrence of the disease it is necessary to remove—(1) the tumour, together with the whole of the mammary gland, the skin over it, and the surrounding fat; (2) the pectoral muscles in whole or in part; (3) the fat, lymphatic vessels and glands in the axilla, and those in relation to the pectoralis minor, costo-coracoid membrane, and subscapular vessels. There are many different ways of performing the operation so as to fulfil these requirements. We shall here describe the method of Kocher. The arm being fully abducted, an incision is carried from the clavicle downwards to the anterior fold of the axilla, dividing the integument and the deep fascia, and exposing the cephalic vein in the furrowT between the upper border of the pectoralis major and the deltoid. The pectoralis major is freed an inch or so from the arm and divided. The pectoralis minor is then freed, and divided close to the coracoid process. The fat and glands which surround the axillary vessels and nerves are dissected off from above downwards till the whole extent of the axillary vein is exposed, and the branches of the axillary vessels are grasped with forceps close to the main trunks before being divided. The fat and glands are then stripped off the anterior surface of the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi muscles until the serratus magnus is exposed. The long thoracic artery, and the posterior thoracic and sub- scapular nerves, may have to be taken away to ensure complete removal of all the lymphatics which accompany them. The axilla having thus been cleared, the incision is continued in a curved direction round the lower border of the breast and on as far as the sternum. The fascia and fat are then stripped off the latissimus dorsi and serratus magnus, and the costal origins of the pectoralis minor exposed and detached. The sternal origin of the pectoralis major is next divided, and, along with the breast, is separated from the ribs and intercostal muscles. The incision is now made through the skin above the breast, and a skin flap dissected from the subcutaneous fat as high up as the clavicle, and the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major is divided close to the clavicle. Finally, the vessels as they lie behind the clavicle are cleared, the bleeding arrested by torsion or ligatures, and the wound closed, a drainage tube being inserted at the posterior axillary fold, passing up between the scapula and the chest wall as far as the clavicle.INOPERABLE CANCER 341 Enlarged glands in the supra-clavicular triangle may be removed by extending the incision upwards, or through a separate incision. It is sometimes necessary to divide the clavicle to obtain free access. In spite of the free removal of muscle in this operation, the usefulness of the arm is not seriously impaired. The bandage which secures the dressing should be applied firmly to prevent oozing. The arm on the affected side should not be included in the bandage, but should be abducted to a right angle with the trunk and fixed on a pillow beside the patient. In this way the patient is rendered more comfortable, and the stiffness and impairment of movement which so often occur if the arm be bound to the side may be avoided. Inoperable Cancer.—In cases in which the disease is so widespread that it is impossible to remove it completely, palliative measures must be adopted to alleviate the patient’s suffering. For example, pain may be diminished and the patient’s mind relieved by the removal of the main mass of the growth, particularly when ulceration, haemorrhage, and septic complications are present. For cases otherwise inoperable, the method of treatment introduced by Beatson of Glasgow may be tried. This consists in removing the ovaries and Fallopian tubes. The idea under- lying this procedure is that the removal of these organs interferes with the nutrition of the mammary tissue in such a way as to arrest - the progress of the new growth by increasing the fibrous stroma of the tumour at the expense of the cellular elements. From a study of about one hundred collected cases treated by this method, Hugh Lett has found that nearly one-half of the patients under fifty years of age derived marked benefit, in the form of relief from pain, improvement in the general health, diminution or even temporary disappearance of the growth, and healing of ulcers. The operation is contra-indicated in patients over fifty; in cases in which secondary growths in the viscera are present; in rapidly growing tumours; and in cases in which recurrence has taken place soon after the primary operation. It is recom- mended that thyroid extract should be administered after the operation with the object of promoting the absorption of the degenerated cancer cells. The Rontgen rays have proved of service in bringing about the healing of cancerous ulcers, in causing the disappearance of secondary nodules in the skin, and in relieving pain; while in these ways they may retard the progress of the disease, they have not so far succeeded in bringing about a cure.342 CHAPTER XXII. THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Surgical anatomy—Injuries of the abdominal parietes : Contusions; Rupture of abdominal muscles—Injuries of the abdominal viscera : Traumatic rupture of holloiv and of solid viscera—Wounds of the abdomen: Punctured and Gunshot wounds — Diseases of the abdominal Avail: Abscess and Cellulitis ; Actinomycosis ; Tumours —Affections of the umbilicus : Persistence of the vitelline duct; Persistence of the urachus ; Urachal fistula; and cysts ; Inflammation ; Umbilical fistulce of other than congenital origin: biliary, urinary, . faecal; Tumours. Surgical Anatomy.—Abdominal Parietes.—The superficial fascia contains a variable quantity of fat, on the amount of which chiefly depends the thickness of the belly Avail. The muscles are arranged in three groups—anterior, posterior, and lateral. The anterior group comprises the recti and the pyramidales muscles ; above the navel the recti are separated from one another in the middle line by a strong fibrous banc!—the linea alba ; Avhile below the navel they are practically in contact. The posterior group comprises the quadratus lumborum and erector spin*. The muscles of the lateral group—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis—are arranged in three superimposed layers sepiarated from one another by a small amount of loose areolar tissue. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles arise posteriorly by a tendon of origin called the lumbar fascia, Avhicli is attached to the lumbar vertebrae and splits to ensheath the erector spin® and quadratus lumborum. Anteriorly all three lateral muscles are inserted into a common tendon, Avhich splits to form a sheath for the rectus muscle. Beneath the muscles is a layer of fascia known as the transversalis fascia, Avhich may be said to line the entire abdominal cavity. Between the. transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum is a layer of loose areolar tissue known as the extra-peritoneal fat. The peritoneum lines the general cavity of the abdomen and pjelvis, and is reflected from the parietes on to the viscera. The parietal and visceral layers are in contact, the space betAveen them being under uormal conditions only a potential one. The peritoneal cavity consists of tAAro sacs, a greater and a lesser. The greater sac is that which is opened Avhen the abdominal parietes are cut through in the operation of laparotomy. The lesser sac, or omental bursa of continental writers, lies behind the stomach. The tAvo sacs communicate through the343 PROPERTIES OF THE PERITONEUM. foramen of Winslow, which lies just below and behind the portal fissure of the liver. The margins of the foramen are normally in contact with each other, and they may become fused, obliterating the opening, so that accumulations of fluid resulting, for example, from perforation of the posterior wall of the stomach or from injuries involving the pancreas, are confined to the lesser sac. As it passes from one organ to another and to the abdominal wall, the peritoneum forms numerous folds and fossae, the number and extent of which render the cleansing of the cavity when infected a procedure of the greatest difficulty. The largest of the peritoneal folds, the great omentum, which forms an apron-like covering for the greater part of the intestines, by contract- ing adhesions with adjacent surfaces of peritoneum, frequently serves to close perforations of the bowel and to limit infective processes in the peritoneal cavity. The mesentery, which conveys all the blood-vessels and nerves for the small intestine, is attached at its root along a line which commences above at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and inclines obliquely downwards to the right iliac fossa. It may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into a right and a left compartment. Lesions of the mesentery endanger the vitality of the intestine by inter- fering with its blood-supply. The transverse meso-colon is attached to the posterior abdominal wall at the level of the second lumbar vertebra along the lower border of the pancreas ; with the great omentum it may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into an upper and a lower com- partment. The compartment above the transverse meso-colon is roofed in by the diaphragm, and contains the stomach and part of the duodenum, the liver with the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, and the pancreas. If pus forms in relation to any of these organs, it may extend upwards beneath the vault of the diaphragm and constitute a sub-plirenic abscess. This compartment may be shut off from the lower abdomen by adhesions between the great omentum and the anterior abdominal wall. Purulent accumulations in this area may be drained through the anterior abdominal wall, through the loin below the last rib, or by the trans- pleural route. The space to the right of the mesentery and below the transverse meso-colon contains the caecum and appendix and the ascending colon, and is related to the small intestine and to the right kidney and ureter. If sujipuration occurs in relation to any of these organs, especi- ally the appendix, the pus may accumulate in the right lumbar or iliac region, and may extend either upwards along the ascending colon to the sub-phrenic area, or downwards into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. The compartment to the left of the mesentery is a very extensive one, being related to the greater part of the small intestine as well as to the transverse, descending and pelvic portions of the colon, and when suppuration occurs within its area the pus is liable to gravitate into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. Purulent collections in the iliac and lumbar regions are to be drained through an incision in the loin or anterior abdominal wall ; those in the pelvis through an opening above the pubes, or by a drainage tube brought out through the vagina or rectum. Properties of the Peritoneum. —In addition to permitting of free movement of the viscera and supporting them in their proper relations, the peritoneum is capable of absorbing large quantities of fluid, and it reacts very rapidly to irritants. Its remarkable capacity of absorbing fluids may be beneficial by preventing such an accumulation as might serve as a culture medium for micro-organisms ; but it may prove harmfulTHE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 344 if tlie fluid contain in solution a large amount of poisonous material, for the struggle is thus transferred from the peritoneum to the general circulation. The capacity for absorption is greatest in the upper part of the abdomen and least in the pelvis, hence the practice of propping up the patient into the sitting posture (Fowler's ■position) when infective material has escaped into the peritoneal cavity. The reaction of the peritoneum to irritants is usually manifested by the throwing out of an exudate, in the form of a clear serous fluid which may become turbid from the presence of phagocytic cells, and may coagulate, forming what is known as fibrinous lymph. In the case of an aseptic foreign body, such as a portion of tissue which has been ligatured with silk, it is surrounded by the lymph, and as the latter becomes organised the foreign body is encapsulated or may be finally absorbed. Even infective material, if small in amount, may in this way be walled in and rendered innocuous or prevented from spreading. There is probably no tissue in the body more capable of resisting organismal influence than the peritoneum. If, however, the infective material is large in amount, exceptionally virulent, or introduced under conditions favourable to the lodgment and multiplication of bacteria, the properties of the peritoneum become harmful, inasmuch as the exudate affords an excellent medium for the growth of organisms, and the rapidity of absorption floods the circulation with their poisonous products. These considerations are of special importance in relation to peritonitis. The Great Omentum consists of a reticulated, connective tissue, covered with endothelial cells and containing abundant blood and lymph vessels. The lymph stream passes first to the glands along the greater curvature of the stomach. In virtue of its vascularity it is capable of forming a collateral circulation ; through its lymph and blood vessels it has a great capacity for absorbing inflammatory products, and through its capacity for producing phagocytes it is a strong protection against bacterial infection ; and lastly, by its tendency to form adhesions it may circumscribe and envelop inflammatory foci. Sensibility of the Peritoneum and of the Abdominal Viscera.— Observations made in the course of operations performed without a general amestlietic have revealed a number of interesting points bearing on this subject. The parietal peritoneum is sensitive to touch and pain, especially that portion of it lining the anterior abdominal wall and the iliac fossfe. It is most sensitive to stretching, as when the edges of a wound are drawn apart, or when one of the viscera connected with the parietal peritoneum is pulled upon ; traction on adhesions connected with the parietal peritoneum also causes pain. The painful impulses are transmitted by the spinal nerves. The visceral peritoneum, and to a great extent the viscera themselves, are insensitive, and, provided the parietal peritoneum is not put upon the stretch, may be handled or subjected to operative interference without the patient being aware that anything is being done. All organs innervated solely by the vagus or by the sympathetic nerves are devoid of sensibility to pain, pressure, heat and cold. Adhesions between viscera rarely cause pain, while those involving the parietal peritoneum cause suffering by dragging on its nerves. It has hitherto been maintained that the visceral peritoneum becomes sensitive when it is inflamed, but Lenander, to whom we are indebted for the preceding observations, believes that it is insensitive, even in acute peritonitis, and that the pain in this affection is due to the involvement of the parietal peritoneum.SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES OF ABDOMEN. 345 It is a significant fact that pain may be entirely absent in many visceral lesions, such as ulcers of the stomach or intestine, or stones in the gall-bladder. Inflammation of the parietal peritoneum is attended with rigidity and arrest of the respiratory movements of the abdominal muscles over an area corresponding to the extent of the inflammation. The term laparotomy or abdominal section is applied to the opening of the peritoneal cavity either for purposes of exploration or with the object of operating upon the abdominal or pelvic viscera. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdomen. In the normal condition of the abdominal muscles the belly wall is so movable and elastic that it may yield before an impinging force, and transmit the violence to the subjacent organs. If, however, the muscles are contracted, as, for ex- ample, when the person is prepared for a blow, the wall becomes rigid, and may itself suffer from the effects of the violence while the subjacent organs escape. The most important clinical point that arises when a patient has received a severe blow over the abdomen is to determine whether or not the viscera have been injured. Contusions of the Abdominal Wall without Visceral Injury.—These result from various forms of violence, and range in severity from a slight bruise to extensive tearing of tissue. In the more severe cases an accumulation of blood occurs between the muscles or in the extra-peritoneal fat, and although this is usually reabsorbed, it may persist as a haematoma. The clinical features are those common to bruises elsewhere, with, in .addition, a variable degree of shock due to the impression made on the nerve plexuses within the abdomen. The treatment ■consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed with the knees Hexed over a pillow, and in applying uniform pressure by means of cotton-wool and a bandage. Rupture of Abdominal Muscles.—The abdominal muscles, especially the recti, may be ruptured by their sudden contrac- tion, or as a result of violence applied to the abdomen, if at the moment of impact they are contracted. When the muscles are weakened by disease, as during convalescence from typhoid fever, they may rupture from comparatively slight violence or ■effort. Rupture of the rectus always occurs below the navel, because of the absence of the posterior layer of its sheath at this level. This accident has been observed chiefly in cavalry recruits in attempting to mount without placing the foot in the ■stirrup. A violent stabbing pain is felt in the lower part of346 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. the abdominal wall to one or other side of the middle line. The respiratory movements of the abdomen are arrested ; the body is bent forwards and the patient is aware that something has given way. There is no ecchymosis. Palpation is painful, the most tender spot being over the seat of rupture, and there is a sharply defined swelling with its long axis directed transversely. It is rarely possible to feel any gap between the ends of the muscle because of the resistance of the sheath overlying the rupture. To relax the ruptured muscle, and to enable its ends to be approximated, the shoulders are raised on pillows, and the thighs flexed on the abdomen ; if this fails, the ends may be exposed by operation and sutured. When the patient begins to go about he should wear a bandage or belt to prevent the forma- tion of a ventral hernia. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdominal Viscera.— Injury to the viscera most often results from violence inflicted with a blunt object applied at right angles to the abdominal wall, as by a kick, the passage of a wheel across the body, a crush between buffers, or a fall against a projecting object. The small intestine, and to a less extent the pancreas, are especially liable to suffer in such accidents, through being nipped between the impinging object and the bodies of the vertebrae. Visceral injuries may also result from acute flexion of the trunk, as when a person is seated, and a heavy weight falls, on his shoulders, compressing the contents of the abdomen. Those which result from falls from a height are usually immediately fatal and are therefore chiefly of medico-legal interest. Certain parts of the intestine are specially exposed to injury ; some from their situation, for example, the centrally placed coils of small intestine; others from the way in which they are attached, for example, the duodeno-jejunal junction, where the peritoneum fixes the duodenum to the posterior abdominal wall, while the jejunum is freely movable in virtue of its mesentery. Distension of a hollow organ such as the bladder or stomach renders it more liable to rupture. Certain diseases also, for example, ulcer of the stomach or malarial enlargement of the spleen, predispose to rupture of these organs. A viscus may be merely contused or it may be ruptured, llupture of the liver, spleen, mesentery or omentum is attended with serious liEemorrhage and may prove fatal from loss of blood. In hollow organs such as the stomach, intestine or urinary bladder, a distinction may be made between complete and incomplete rupture; in the former all the coats are torn347 INJURIES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. through, and unless the opening is blocked by omentum or protruded mucous membrane, the contents escape at once into the peritoneal cavity and set up septic peritonitis. In in- complete ruptures, one or other of the coats remains intact, and the escape of contents is thereby prevented. As a result of infection and subsequent necrosis the rupture may, however, become complete, and extravasation ultimately take place. Injuries in the epigastric region may lead to haemorrhage in or around the pancreas and accumulation of blood-stained fluid in the lesser sac of the peritoneum. Clinical Features of Visceral Injuries.—These necessarily vary with the nature and severity of the violence, the extent of the injuries, and the viscus involved. As a rule there is no evidence of bruising of the abdominal wall. The degree of shock varies widely in different cases; it may be slight and evanescent, or it may be so great that death ensues within a few minutes. Vomiting when present usually continues after the stomach has emptied itself of food. There is persistent pain, which radiates over the whole belly, and is increased by the least movement or manipulation. The abdominal muscles contract and immobilise the wall, and, as the action of the diaphragm is restrained, the respiration becomes almost entirely thoracic. The flattening of the belly may later give place to fulness and prominence, either from gaseous distension of the paralysed bowel, or from the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity, for example, in rupture of the stomach or intestine. Diminution or loss of the liver dulness may result from such an escape of gas, but is not a reliable sign of this, as it may be produced by gaseous distension of the colon. As a result of the arrested peristalsis of the bowel the patient passes nothing by the rectum, not even flatus. When rupture of a solid organ is attended with haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, the initial shock, instead of passing off, gradually gives place to the phenomena of the bloodless state : the pallor increases, the pulse becomes smaller and more frequent, the patient faints or becomes very restless, exhibiting the effects of “air-hunger,” and the accumulation of blood within the belly may be recognised on percussion by the in- creasing dulness in the flanks. In rupture of hollow organs, the symptoms of the initial shock gradually merge into those of septic peritonitis. When rupture of a hollow viscus is incomplete, or when the perforation is so small that escape of contents does not take place, the initial shock is followed by a period of reaction during which there is an amelioration of the symptoms. There is hereTHE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 348 the possibility of natural cure, but as a rule, after an interval of comparative well-being, the features of peritonitis appear, and the inflammation of the peritoneum may be limited by adhesions and terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess, or it may extend and become general. Diagnosis.—It is often difficult to be absolutely certain of the existence of a visceral lesion, and especially when an accurate history of the injury is not obtainable, as in persons found injured or in cases of alleged assault. Although the persistence of severe shock is strongly suggestive of visceral injury, in some cases of rupture of the stomach or intestine the patient suffers little from shock, and may even be able to walk some distance. The diagnosis of visceral injury is rendered more certain by the persistence of vomiting after the stomach has emptied itself of food, and by the continuance of severe pain and rigidity of the abdominal muscles. Pro- gressive pallor with signs of accumulation of blood in the peritoneal cavity affords grounds for suspecting the rupture of a solid organ. So long as the diagnosis is in doubt the progress of the symptoms must be carefully watched, the patient being examined at frequent intervals. Rupture of the urinary bladder is so liable to be overlooked, especially in intoxicated persons, that it is advisable as a routine practice to pass a catheter in all cases of known or alleged injury to the abdomen. While it is not justifiable to operate indiscriminately in all cases of abdominal injury, or on patients with extensive injuries who are obviously dying, when the diagnosis is doubtful it is safer to perform an exploratory laparotomy than to wait until signs of peritonitis ensue. Except in the presence of severe shock, an exploratory operation cannot be said to add to the danger of the patient, while delay in operating upon a ruptured viscus with infection of the peritoneum may place him beyond relief by surgical measures. Treatment.—The operative treatment takes the form of a laparotomy, and when rupture has been diagnosed the sooner this is carried out the better. It is not permissible to wait until the symptons of shock pass off, because in many cases these are kept up by bleeding or by the escape of visceral contents into the peritoneal cavity. The chief indications to be fulfilled are: the closure of the rupture in the viscus, the arrest of haemorrhage, and the cleansing of the peritoneal cavity. The abdomen is opened by an incision over the seat of injury,WOUNDS OF ABDOMINAL WALL. 349 if this can be determined. If blood is found extravasated, the haemorrhage must be traced to its source and arrested. If gas and other bowel contents have escaped from the alimentary canal, the perforation must be searched for and closed. If neither blood nor bowel contents is discovered, a more detailed search is necessary, especially a methodical examination of the intestine. All escaped blood or other material must be removed, and the drainage of inflammatory exudate provided for. The details of the operation vary with the different organs, and will be considered later. Wounds of the Abdominal Wall.—A stab, produced by a pointed body such as a knife or the spike of a railing, presents the characters of a punctured wound ; and the important point to determine is whether or not the peritoneal cavity has been penetrated, and if so, whether any injury has been inflicted on the viscera. Complete penetration of the abdominal wall usually implies a perforation of some viscus also. In small wounds of the intestine there is a prolapse of the mucous membrane, which temporarily blocks the opening and prevents escape of the intestinal contents. If the intestine becomes distended later, extravasation occurs. The severity of the symptoms of visceral injury varies; some- times there is well-marked rigidity of the abdominal wall, .persistent pain and the presence of blood in the vomit or in the stools; sometimes the symptoms are ill-defined, or there may even be no evidence of internal injury. If the position and direction of the wound, its size, and the character of the instrument with which it was inflicted, give reason to suspect that the peritoneal cavity may have been entered, the wound must be disinfected and enlarged sufficiently to remove all doubt. If the puncture is found to have reached the peritoneal cavity, the wound must be opened up sufficiently to admit of the interior being examined. If there is evidence of haemorrhage or of escape of visceral contents, the lesion must be sought for and dealt with; and the possibility of multiple wounds of the intestine must be borne in mind. In some cases the protrusion of viscera—usually the omentum, less commonly the small intestine—is the most striking feature ; and the prolapsed viscus is exposed to infection, which may spread to the peritoneal cavity. When the patient is seen soon after infliction of the wound, the viscus must be cleansed with salt solution and returned to the abdomen, but if the omentum is much soiled, the damaged portion should be removed; if the intestine is wounded, it must be stitched or the damaged portionTHE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 350 resected. If the prolapse is of long standing, marked altera- tions may have occurred in the protruded viscus from septic infection, or, when the opening in the parietes is a small one, by strangulation ; the omentum or intestine, for example, may be gangrenous by the time the patient first comes under observation, and the treatment is then carried out on the same lines as in strangulated hernia. Gunshot Wounds.—Those met with in civil practice are usually produced by pistol or rifle bullets discharged at close range, and they are to be dealt with on the same lines as stab wounds. When a pistol bullet enters the abdominal cavity it may perforate several coils of intestine and traverse any solid viscus that lies in its course. Multiple perforations occur most frequently in the ileum, and are oftenest made by bullets which pass through the abdomen obliquely from side to side. The abdomen is opened in the middle line to allow of the necessary investigation of the viscera. If there is evidence of haemorrhage, the solid viscera must be examined first, and any wound found treated by suture or packing. In extensive wounds of either the spleen or the kidney the organ may have to be excised. The intestine must be examined methodically ; starting from a fixed point, such as the ileo-caecal junction, the whole of the small intestine is rapidly passed through the fingers, and as a rent is exposed it is at once sutured. It is rarely necessary to resect a portion of bowel. In gunshot wounds sustained in warfare, the conditions vary so widely that no definite lines can be laid down regarding their treatment. Recent experience has shown that when the abdomen of a fasting man has been traversed by a bullet of small calibre discharged at a distance, it is better to abstain from operative interference unless there is progressive haemorrhage within the abdomen. The patient should be kept under morphin and nourished by the rectum. Even when the abdominal cavity has been traversed by a bullet and perforation of one or more viscera has occurred, spontaneous recovery frequently takes place. If, however, in warfare the conditions, both as regards the nature of the injury and the facilities for operating, approximate those of civil practice, laparotomy should be performed, especially when there is evidence of internal haemorrhage or of perforation of the stomach or intestine. Wounds of the liver, kidney, and spleen by rifle bullets usually heal well, and require no operative treat- ment, except for secondary complications, such as fistula or abscess.DISEASES OF ABDOMINAL WALL. 351 Diseases of the Abdominal Wall. Inflammation and Suppuration. -The subcutaneous cellular tissue may be the seat of circumscribed abscess or of diffuse cellulitis, a good example of the latter being afforded by the cellulitis that spreads to the abdominal wall in cases of extra- vasation of urine. The extra-peritoneal cellular tissue may likewise be the seat of abscess or of cellulitis. The situation and the direction of spread of the suppurative process vary with the origin of the infection. That, for example, which originates in the urinary bladder may ascend from behind the pubes towards the umbilicus, forming a spherical swelling resembling the distended bladder ; and that which originates from the uterus may spread outwards in the broad ligaments, and come to the surface in one or other iliac fossa. Among other forms of extra-peritoneal cellulitis and suppuration may be instanced those which arise in the loin from lesions of the kidney-—-perinephric abscess; in the right iliac fossa from appendicitis and malignant disease of the caecum; and in the vicinity of the pelvis from osteomyelitis of the pubes and ileum. In connection with the extrusion of biliary calculi and of foreign bodies in the stomach or intestine also suppuration may occur. The clinical features vary with the origin and seat of the cellulitis. The condition is seldom diagnosed until the in- flammatory products form a definite swelling, and the presence of pus is uncertain until the abscess approaches the surface. Fortunately the pus tends to make its way towards the skin rather than into the peritoneal cavity. The pus in abscesses which form in the vicinity of the bowel is frequently foetid from the presence of the colon bacillus. The treatment consists in making an incision through the overlying skin and fascia, and passing a director through the muscles and transversalis fascia until the purulent collection is reached. Additional openings may be required to establish free drainage. The lesion from which the cellulitis took origin must also be treated. Actinomycosis is met with in the abdominal wall chiefly as a result of extension from the intestine. It appears as an ill-defined, hard swelling which gradually softens and ruptures on the skin surface, discharging pus which contains the char- acteristic fungus. The affection runs a slow and prolonged course, and usually results in the formation of one or more sinuses which may lead down to the bowel.352 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Tumours of the Abdominal Wall. — Lipoma and fibroma are the most important of these. The lipoma may originate in the subcutaneous or in the extra-peritoneal areolar tissue. One variety of extra-peritoneal lipoma is represented by the small fatty hernia; which occur in the middle line in the epigastric region, and in the inguinal canal, and which are described at p. 427. The fibroma grows from the fascial coverings of the muscles and from the aponeuroses of the abdominal wall. At first small, hard, and insensitive, it may after a long period of slow growth become more active and attain a considerable size. It is met with chiefly in women who have borne children. On examination it is found that the tumour moves with the wall and not with the contents of the abdomen, and that it does not change its position with alterations in the position of the patient. The tumour should be freely excised, a zone of muscle fibres and aponeurosis in contact with it being removed at the same time. If the parietal peritoneum is involved in the growth, the adherent portion must also be resected. To prevent the forma- tion of a ventral hernia, the gap in the abdominal wall is care- fully sutured, the patient is kept recumbent for from four to six weeks, and must wear a belt or bandage on resuming the erect posture. A transitional form between fibroma and sarcoma — the “ recurrent fibroid of Paget ”—shows a marked tendency to recur after removal, and finally to become generalised over the abdominal wall. Affections of the Umbilicus. Persistence of the Vitelline Duct. — Patent Meckel's Diverticulum.—The vitelline duct—the channel of communica- tion between the intestine and the yolk sac—passes from the ileum a little above the ileo-ceecal valve to the umbilicus, and is usually obliterated at the eighth week of intra-uterine life. In its persistent tubular form it is known as a Meckel’s diverticulum. When the stump of the umbilical cord separ- ates after birth the duct may come to open on the surface, constituting a fistula, which discharges mucus, and in rare instances fecal matter. The wall of the duct may be pro- lapsed through the umbilicus, and it is sometimes followed by a protrusion of the intestine, which, by interfering with the passage of the contents, may result in obstruction of the bowels. If the fistula discharges fecal matter, the abdomen should be353 AFFECTIONS OF THE UMBILICUS. opened and the entire diverticulum excised, the orifice of com- munication with the ileum being closed by suture. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is obliterated while the portion in the umbilical cord remains patent, the separation of the stump of the cord may be followed by pro- trusion of the mucous membrane of the duct and the gradual formation of a raspberry-like tumour known as an entero- teratoma. This forms a pedunculated tumour, covered with mucous membrane, which is continuous with the surrounding skin, and secretes a little clear mucus. The absence of a fistu- lous opening at the apex of the tumour differentiates it from a prolapse of the duct, while the presence of columnar epithelium differentiates it from a granuloma. The treatment consists in excising the tumour. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is obliterated only at its two extremities, the intervening portion may become dis- tended with fluid and form a cyst in the hypogastric region. Persistence of the Urachus.—Urachal Fistulce and Cysts.— The urachus, or duct of communication between the urinary bladder and the allantois, may remain patent and extend into the substance of the umbilical cord. In such cases, when the stump of the cord separates, a urachal fistida is formed and discharges a varying quantity of urine. If it does not close spontaneously, the patent urachus should be dissected out, and the opening at the summit of the bladder be closed by sutures. Sometimes, although closed at the umbilicus, the urachus remains unobliteratecl in the rest of its course, and if there is any difficulty in voiding the urine by the natural channel, attended with septic infection, inflammation may extend from the bladder, into the urachus and lead to a fistula at the umbilicus which discharges pus and urine. The treatment consists in removing any obstruction to the escape of urine by the normal channel, allaying the inflammation of the bladder, and finally dissecting out the urachus and closing the opening in the bladder. Urachal cysts result if the vesical and umbilical openings of the urachus are obliterated while the rest of it remains patent. Inflammation of the umbilicus is usually the result of want of cleanliness, the epidermis and sebaceous secretion accumulat- ing and undergoing decomposition. The umbilicus becomes red and swollen, and a foetid discharge escapes on the surface. The symptoms disappear if the parts are kept clean. The umbilical granuloma is a projecting mass of granulation VOL. II—23THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 354 tissue which develops as a result of inflammatory changes subse- quent to separation of the stump of the cord. It is to be differ- entiated from the entero-teratoma above described, and should be removed with the scissors. Umbilical Fistulse of other than Congenital Origin.—Ab- dominal abscesses may point and rupture in the situation of the umbilical scar. The discharge is at first purulent, but may become mixed with bile, feces or urine, according to the origin of the abscess. Biliary Jistulce usually follow upon the inflam- matory complications of gall-stones; urinary jistulce follow on prevesical cellulitis and abscess, and resemble those associated with a persistent urachus. Faecal jistulce result from various conditions, such as strangulated umbilical hernia, foreign bodies and ulcers of the intestine, and particularly abdominal tuber- culosis. Tumours of the Umbilicus. — These include dermoids, papillomata, fibromata, sarcomata, and cancers. The primary cancer, usually a squamous epithelioma, results from long- continued irritation, and appears as an indurated ulcer with offensive discharge. Secondary cancer appears as one or more hard nodules, and is a sequel to primary growths in the stomach, intestine, or liver; if one of the nodules is subjected to microscopic examination and found to contain columnar epithelium, a needless operation will be avoided, a radical cure being out of the question.355 CHAPTER XXIII. THE PERITONEUM. Peritonitis—Varieties : Non-infective peritonitis ; Infective peritonitis; Diffuse peritonitis ; Localised forms of infective peritonitis ; 'Pneumo- coccal ; Gonococcal; Chronic — Peritoneal tuberculosis and tuber- culous peritonitis : Varieties — Actinomycosis of peritoneum — Peritoneal adhesions and bands—Foreign bodies in the peritoneal cavity—Tumours of peritoneum and extra-peritoneal cellular tissue : Retro-peritoneal tumours; Mesenteric tumours; Mesenteric cysts; Omental tumours ; Malignant disease of peritoneum ; Chylous ascites ; Hydatid cysts—Affections of mesenteric glands—Sub-phrenic abscess. Peritonitis. The term peritonitis is applied to any inflammation of the peritoneum, and the changes observed in the membrane are to be regarded as representing the reaction of its tissue elements to an irritant. Non-infective Peritonitis.—When the irritation is produced by attenuated organisms which are readily overcome by the tissues, the changes in the peritoneum are essentially reparative. Such changes constitute what has been termed “aseptic or reparative peritonitis.” They consist in the exudation of serum and of fibrinous lymph ; these are either reabsorbed or result in the formation of adhesions between opposing surfaces of peri- toneum. When blood is extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, as in the rupture of an extra-uterine pregnancy or of such an organ as the liver, it has been found by Dudgeon and Sargent that a white staphylococcus can be cultivated from the clot, and yet the blood may be entirely reabsorbed, or there may be excited a certain degree of irritation of the peritoneum which results in the encapsulation of the blood, and the forma- tion of a blood-cyst; infective changes terminating in sup- puration are quite the exception. It is believed by Dudgeon and Sargent that the white staphylococcus inhibits the action of356 THE PERITONEUM. other more dangerous organisms, mainly by chemiotaxis, but also in some degree by the formation of a protective film of exudate upon the surface of the peritoneum ; in presence of the white coccus, the peritoneal fluid is generally rich in active poly-morpho-nuclear leucocytes. When normal bile escapes from a rupture of the gall-bladder it may be reabsorbed, or there may be a reaction on the part of the peritoneum which results in the formation of adhesions. Similar phenomena may follow upon the rupture of an ovarian cyst. Like changes may also be observed as a result of circulatory disturbances, as from the rotation of the pedicle of a wandering spleen or of an ovarian cyst. If, however, the disturbance of circulation and nutrition is so great as to permit of the passage of other bacteria, and especially colon bacilli, through the wall of the bowel, the characters of the lesion are altered and assume those of infective peritonitis. Infective Peritonitis.—When the peritoneum is infected with virulent organisms and these gain the upper hand, the condition of septic peritonitis ensues. Sometimes the infective material is so abundant or so exceptionally virulent that the patient is poisoned and dies before reactive changes have time to occur. This condition is termed 'peritoneal intoxication cr septicaemia. The organisms chiefly concerned are the colon bacillus, the streptococcus pyogenes, and the bacillus pyocyaneus; the gonococcus, the pneumococcus, and the organisms of acute rheumatism are less frequently met with. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a mixed infection. In some cases, especially those originating from lesions of the Fallopian tubes, the pus is found to be sterile; and it may be stated generally that the organisms most frequently met with in pelvic peritonitis are the less virulent ones and the mortality is relatively low. In investigating the organisms in any given case of peritonitis it is better to make cultivations from the lymph than from the fluid exudate. The extent and characters of the peritonitis vary with the conditions which attend infection of the membrane. If the organisms have it all their own way, the infection spreads widely, and a diffuse peritonitis ensues; if on the other hand the tissues are in a position to react, they may succeed in limiting the infection, and a localised or encysted peritonitis results. Points of Origin of Septic Peritonitis. — Infection may originate in any of the organs covered by, or adjacent to, the peritoneum. The gastro-intestinal canal is much the most common seat of origin of peritonitis, any condition of theINFECTIVE PERITONITIS. 357 stomach or bowel which is attended with inflammation or ulceration being liable to be the starting-point of peritoneal in- fection. Lesions of the vermiform appendix rank first in order of frequency. Among other sources of infection may be in- stanced perforating irlcer of the stomach or duodenum, intestinal ulcers, foreign bodies ulcerating through the gut, traumatic ruptures, various forms of enteritis, changes in the bowel associated with stricture and congenital diverticula of the in- testine. Circulatory disturbances resulting in damage to the wall of the gut and rendering it pervious to the passage of organisms, for example strangulation of the bowel, volvulus or intussusception, or obstruction of the mesenteric blood-vessels, may also determine infection of the peritoneum. Organs intimately related to the intestinal canal, such as the gall-bladder, liver, and pancreas, may be the seat of inflammatory complications which may extend to the peritoneum ; for example, cholecystitis with gall-stones, suppurating hydatid cysts, abscess of the liver, or suppurative pancreatitis. The female organs of generation, especially the uterus and Fallopian tubes, frequently prove the starting-point of peritonitis, particularly by the spread of infections related to the puerperium or to abortion. Less frequently peritonitis takes origin from infective lesions of the spleen, the mesenteric glands, the urinary organs, adjacent serous cavities such as the pleura or pericardium, the umbilicus in newly-born children, and from infective conditions of the abdominal wall. When infection occurs in relation to penetrating wounds or abdominal operations, the organisms are either introduced from without or are liberated from the alimentary tract. In the latter case it is not necessary that the lumen of the bowel be opened; it is sufficient that its wall be so damaged as to render it pervious to organisms. In a small minority of cases it is not possible to discover any antecedent lesion to account for the peritonitis. It is probable that some of these so-called “idiopathic” cases result from infection through the blood-stream, as for example in peritonitis of pneumococcal origin. Diffuse Peritonitis.—This is met with under conditions in which the infective agent is introduced in such quantity, or in such an active form, that the efforts of the tissues to combat it are ineffectual. In the most rapidly fatal forms—the so-called peritoneal septicaemia—the patient may die before any anatomical changesTHE PERITONEUM. 358 have had time to occur. In less virulent cases, the vessels of the membrane are injected, the surface loses its lustre and is covered with an exudate, which may only amount to a sticki- ness but more often consists of lymph which mats the intestines together and covers the solid organs. The lymph is usually thickest along the lines of contact between adjacent coils of bowel. It is at first fibrinous, but later becomes purulent and of a yellowish or greenish-yellow colour. The fibrinous lymph is usually accompanied by a fluid exudate, which is at first serous but tends to become turbid and to acquire the characters of pus. The inflammation may be diffused widely throughout the cavity of the abdomen, but as a result of the division of the cavity into pockets by the gumming together of adjacent surfaces, the exudate that accumulates in these pockets may vary in character at different parts of the belly. The inflam- matory .changes are always more marked in the visceral than in the parietal peritoneum, and are most advanced in the vicinity of the organ from which the infection took origin. The diffusion of the infection takes place by way of the subserous lymphatics, and by the movement of the exudate in the peritoneal cavity. The presence of foetid gas in the peritoneal cavity may be due to decomposition of the inflammatory exudate, or the gas may have escaped through a perforation in the bowel or stomach. The coils of small intestine are usually greatly distended with gas, and their contents are in process of decomposition. The toxins absorbed- from the peritoneal cavity poison the vaso-motor and respiratory centres, and the functions of other organs, notably the heart, are disturbed. In all cases of advanced septic peritonitis there ensues a paralysis of the intes- tine, which is probably due to a toxic poisoning of Auerbach’s plexus, and to inflammatory changes in the wall of the bowel. When the wall of the intestine is paralysed, it not only ceases to transmit the bowel contents, but the coats undergo changes which render them permeable to toxins and bacteria, which pass through the wall of the intestine into the peritoneal cavity. Clinical Features.—These vary with the nature of the primary lesion and the manner in which the peritoneum becomes infected, and according to whether the signs of inflammatory reaction or those of absorption of toxins predominate. The symptoms of peritonitis are superadded to those of the primary disease, and develop more or less suddenly according to the rapidity with which the peritoneum becomes involved, but as the peritonitis progresses the symptoms of the primary affection may be completely overshadowed.DIFFUSE PERITONITIS. 359 In a typicaV case of acute peritonitis, such, for example, as accompanies the fulminating form of appendicitis, the patient rapidly becomes extremely ill, and his general appearance usually betokens the gravity of his condition. The face is pale and drawn, and assumes an anxious expression, the eyes are clear and bright, and the mental faculties are often abnormally alert. He lies on his back, sometimes with the knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles. Instinctively he avoids any movement of the abdomen, and as the abdominal muscles are refiexly con- tracted, and do not move in respiration, the breathing is entirely thoracic, and is usually shallow and slightly accelerated. In the early stages, the pulse is usually quick and feeble, and the temperature normal or subnormal; this association of a sub- normal temperature and a rapid, feeble pulse is characteristic of progressive peritonitis. A regurgitant form of vomiting is one of the cardinal symp- toms, and is rarely absent except in some cases of perforated ulcer of the stomach. It is continuous and persistent, the stagnating and decomposing contents of the stomach and upper coils of intestine being ejected in mouthfuls in a characteristi- cally gulping manner, without effort and without preliminary retching. The vomited matter at first consists of sour-smelling, undigested food, later it is green from admixture with bile, and finally it is brownish from altered blood, and offensive as a result of decomposition. Although the patient only brings up a mouthful or two at a time, the amount regurgitated from the stomach may be so great that the body is drained of its fluids, and the patient complains of a burning thirst. Abdominal pain is an early and prominent symptom, and in cases of abrupt onset is severe enough to produce marked symptoms of shock. As the pain and tenderness are usually most acute over the organ from which the peritonitis has originated, for example, in the right iliac fossa in appendicular lesions, and in the epigas- trium in perforations of the stomach, their situation may afford evidence as to the seat of origin of the peritonitis. As the inflammation extends and becomes more intense, the pain and tenderness become more widely distributed. The abdominal walls not only cease to move with respiration, but become rigid and board-like from reflex contraction of the muscles. In the later stages, the abdomen tends to become distended and prominent from the formation of gas within the bowels, and this distension of the bowels bulges the anterior wall, and pushes up the diaphragm and liver, the latter organ being rotated so that its normal area of dulness may diminish or disappear. As a resultTHE PERITONEUM. 360 of the intestinal paralysis nothing is passed by the rectum, not even flatus. In certain forms of peritonitis, in those for example which attend puerperal infections, there may be diarrhoea. Owing to the rigidity of the abdominal wall it is rarely possible to learn anything by palpation, and the tenderness prevents percussion being employed. An area of dulness in the flanks or in other dependent parts of the abdomen may be due to an accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, but it may also be caused by coils of small intestine filled with fluid faeces. A collection of fluid in the pouch of Douglas may be felt through the rectum or vagina. Fibrinous exudation may cause rough friction, especially over the liver. The urine is scanty and concentrated, and often contains traces of albumin and indican; the presence of tube casts is probably the result of a toxic nephritis. As the disease progresses, the patient presents more and more the general features of septic poisoning; the face and extremities become cold and cyanosed from defective circula- tion and imperfect aeration of the blood. The pulse becomes small, rapid, and running, and the temperature may rise to 103° or 104° E., or may become subnormal. The intellect may become dulled by increasing toxcemia, but as a rule the patient remains conscious to the last, sometimes ceasing to complain or even expressing himself as feeling better. In cases which recover, the general symptoms improve before the local, the pulse becomes slower and improves in quality, the pain and vomiting become less aggressive, and the bowel recovers its functions, and there is passage of flatus and later of faeces. The local phenomena gradually disappear, or may become local- ised to the region of the organ primarily affected, and terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. Diagnosis.—For the recognition of peritonitis stress is chiefly laid on the presence or absence of abdominal respiratory move- ments. While in the majority of cases the condition is not difficult to recognise, one or more of the typical signs may be wanting, as for example when the infection is limited to the centre of the peritoneal cavity and does not implicate the parietal peritoneum. It is to be noted that when peritonitis follows upon intra-abdominal operations it may not give rise to the pain and other local phenomena to which attention has been directed. Among the conditions most likely to be mistaken for periton- itis are biliary and renal colic, ruptured extra-uterine pregnancy, acute pancreatitis, and acute inflammations above the diaphragm, such as pleurisy or pneumonia.361 DIFFUSE PERITONITIS. In the differentiation between peritonitis and acute intestinal obstruction, most stress should be laid on the presence or absence of the respiratory movements of the abdominal wall; in obstruc- tion, moreover, the pain is spasmodic and griping in character, and there are intervals during which the patient is free from pain. The differentiation of a diffuse from a localised peritonitis depends chiefly upon recognising that the rigidity of the abdom- inal muscles, the absence of movement, and the tenderness are spread over a wide area; that in the former the general symp- toms are aggravated, and that the pulse is becoming more rapid and more feeble. Treatment.—The rational treatment of septic peritonitis is to open the abdomen and deal with the lesion from which the peritonitis originated. This should be undertaken unless the manifestations of septic poisoning are so pronounced that there is no hope of recovery, or the distension of the abdomen is so great that any operative interference is unlikely to benefit the patient. The preliminaries of the operation include the hypodermic injection of strychnin, and the emptying of the bladder ; and if there is regurgitant vomiting of dark coloured material, the stomach should be washed out with hot water. A local anes- thetic may suffice, but if it is necessary to secure relaxation of the abdominal muscles, a general anesthetic must be employed. Unless there is a definite guide to the seat of the lesion, an incision three or four inches long is made near the middle line to one or other side of the umbilicus, and is extended as may be required. An attempt should be made to discover and remove the source of the peritonitis, and the more accurate the diagnosis of the initial lesion is, the quicker and safer will be the operation. If the intestinal coils protrude, they are wrapped in hot saline compresses covered with thin rubber sheeting, and outside this hot dry towels. It may be advisable to incise and empty one or more of the distended coils, especially if the distension is an obstacle to some essential step in the operation, as for example when a distended caecum prevents access to a diseased appendix, or when it is found impossible to return distended coils to the abdomen. The bowel being paralysed, it is only possible to empty a limited length of intestine through each incision. The opening is closed again by a purse-string suture carried through all the coats of the bowel, and a serous suture at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. The cleansing of the peritoneal cavity is effected by soaking up the exudate with pads of gauzeTHE PERITONEUM. 362 wrung out of saline solution. Irrigation may be called for in the more generalised forms of peritonitis ; two large tubes are pushed in alongside each other to successive regions, and a steady stream of saline solution, at a temperature of about 105° F., is sent along one of them until it returns quite clear. The viscera must be handled gently, and adherent lymph should not be removed. It may be necessary to make additional openings for drainage, especially one above the pubes to drain the pouch of Douglas. In the female, it is better to drain the pelvis through the roof of the vagina. The operation is concluded by closing the abdominal wound, leaving room for the various drainage tubes. A wick of iodoform gauze or worsted should be passed to the bottom of each tube, or cigarette drains may be used instead of tubes. If it has been impossible to remove the focus of infection, the area should be packed with a large strand of iodoform gauze or worsted, surrounded by rubber tissue. After-treatment. —The head of the bed should be raised about eighteen inches, or the patient propped up on pillows so that any fluid in the abdomen may gravitate into the pelvis. Saline solution should be introduced in sufficient quantity to restore the blood pressure and to increase the excretory action of the kidneys and skin. It may be run continuously into the rectum through a vaginal nozzle and rubber tube connected with a douche-can placed at a level of about six to twelve inches above the pelvis; the salt solution, at a temperature of 100° F., is allowed to flow at the rate of about three-quarters of a pint per hour (Murphy). Should the rectum not be available, the saline solution is introduced into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or preferably, directly into the median basilic vein. An attempt should be made as soon as possible to open the bowels. M‘Cosh’s procedure of injecting a saturated solution of sul- phate of magnesia into the lumen of the bowel—preferably the jejunum—before closing the abdomen is an attempt to fulfil this indication. The alternative plan is to give calomel either in repeated small doses, or in one dose of five grains, followed by a saline purgative. Flatulent distension may be relieved by an enema containing turpentine. The prognosis after operations for peritonitis depends chiefly upon the etiology and virulence of the infection and the stage of the illness at which operation has been performed. Localised Forms of Infective Peritonitis. — Owing to the capacity of the inflamed peritoneum to form adhesions, septic infection frequently remains localised to the vicinity of the organ in which it originates. This is most frequently observed in363 PNEUMOCOCCAL PERITONITIS. relation to the appendix, the female pelvic organs, and the gall-bladder. If at any stage of the process resolution occurs, the organisms die out, the exudate is reabsorbed, and recovery ensues. If the inflammatory exudate becomes purulent, a circumscribed abscess is formed, the v/all of the abscess con- sisting of inflamed and adherent serous surfaces gummed to- gether by lymph. The clinical features and progress vary according to the lesion from which the peritonitis originates and the extent of the infection. They are at first similar to those of diffuse peritonitis, but the general symptoms are less severe, and the inflammatory signs are confined to the region of the organ primarily affected. A more or less defined swelling forms, and is sometimes palpable through the anterior abdominal wall, sometimes through the rectum or vagina. The general condition of the patient improves as the inflamed area becomes walled in by adhesions and the absorption of toxins diminishes. If pus forms, it usually approaches the surface, and the skin becomes oedematous and pits on pressure before the abscess ruptures externally ; the pus may, however, burst into the general cavity, into one of the adjacent hollow organs, or into the extra- peritoneal cellular tissue. The treatment is essentially operative, and is best studied with the individual organs. Pneumococcal Peritonitis.—This may occur in association with pneumonia, pleurisy, or meningitis, and is then part of a general infection. The organisms reach the peritoneum through the blood-stream, by extension from the pleura through the diaphragm, or, in the female, by way of the genital tract. Pneumococcal peritonitis is met with chiefly in female children ; it is seldom possible to determine in what part of the abdomen the process originates, although in some cases the changes are most pronounced in the vicinity of the ovaries and tubes. After an acute onset characterised by pain in the lower part of the belly, vomiting, and fever, the symptoms may moderate for a time and then become more aggressive. The abdomen becomes distended, especially in the lower umbilical region, and there may be physical signs of the exudation of fluid. Sometimes there are several distinct encapsulated collections of fluid, mostly situated below the umbilicus. In suppurative cases an abscess has been known to point and rupture at the umbilicus. The pus is of a greenish colour, without odour, and is mixed with a large amount of fibrin. It may contain pneumococci alone or along with other pyogenic organisms.364 THE PERITONEUM. The diagnosis from appendicital or tuberculous peritonitis may be difficult. Idle prognosis is more favourable than in most other forms of infective peritonitis. Although spontaneous recovery is not impos- sible, the proper treatment is to open the abdomen and establish drainage on the lines already laid down for peritonitis in general. Gonococcal Peritonitis.—This form of peritonitis occurs as a sequel to gonorrhoea, and is met with chiefly in females, both adults and children, the peritoneum being infected by way of the Fallopian tubes, either through the ostium or by the rupture of a pyosalpinx. In the male, the infection is believed to spread from the seminal vesicles. In either sex the peritonitis may be limited to the pelvis—pelvic peritonitis—or may become generalised. A characteristic feature is that while the onset is very acute, the urgent symptoms soon show an abatement, and, in spite of the apparent gravity of the illness, the patient gradually recovers with or without the formation of extensive pelvic adhesions. Unless gonococci are discovered in the discharge from the cervix, vagina or urethra, the diagnosis may be difficult. The question of operative interference is still an open one. Recovery may take place without operation, but there is little doubt that incision and drainage of the peritoneum, and the removal of a pyosalpinx when this is present, afford a better prospect of permanent cure. Chronic Peritonitis.—A primary and progressive chronic peritonitis can scarcely be said to exist apart from such chronic infections as tubercle, syphilis, or actinomycosis. It appears inadvisable to apply this term to the reparative changes in the peritoneum which attend upon almost every form of intra- abdominal disease. Peritoneal Tuberculosis and Tuberculous Peritonitis.—This affection is specially common in children and young adults, although it may be met with at any period of life. It rarely exists as an independent disease; as a rule it is secondary to some other tuberculous lesion in the abdomen, particularly in the intestine, the Fallopian tube, or the mesenteric glands, the peritoneum being infected by direct extension. Tuberculous disease of the lung or pleura may spread to the peritoneum by way of the lymphatics; and tubercle of the bronchial glands, the bones and joints, or the genito-urinary organs, by way of the blood-stream. Acute miliary tuberculosis usually affects the peritoneum and pleurae simultaneously, and is met with chiefly as part of a general tuberculosis. The constitutional symptoms may over-TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. 365 shadow the local signs to such an extent that the condition is mistaken for typhoid fever. The disease is not amenable to surgical interference, and usually proves fatal within a few months. The chronic forms of peritoneal tuberculosis are much more important surgically. For descriptive purposes they may be divided into two main types, according as the exudation of fluid or the formation of adhesions is the predominant feature. Tuberculosis ivith Fluid Exudation—Tuberculous Ascites.— In the majority of cases the exudate is serous in character— tuberculous ascites—and the Huid may be diffused throughout the whole of the peritoneal cavity, or it may be confined by adhesions to one or more limited areas. In a few cases the fluid becomes purulent. In the diffuse form, which is the more common, the patient gradually loses strength. The peritoneal cavity slowly fills with fluid which yields a dull note on per- cussion, the dulness varying in position with the attitude of the patient. On palpation it may be possible to feel enlarged mesenteric glands. In advanced cases the abdomen is prominent, the skin is tense and shiny and shows distended veins, and there is fever of the hectic type. The large belly presents a striking contrast to the emaciated condition of the rest of the body. In male children, if the processus vaginalis is patent, it also becomes filled with fluid. If the child is placed under favourable conditions, including the open-air treatment, there is a decided tendency towards recovery. This may be aided by rubbing into the skin of the abdomen ichthyol, oleate of mercury, or cod-liver oil. In the absence of improvement within from three to six months, recourse should be had to laparotomy. A small incision is made below the umbilicus, and the fluid—clear, straw-coloured serum—is allowed to drain away. If the finger is inserted, the peritoneum is found to be studded with firm tuberculous nodules varying in size from a pin’s head to a hazel-nut, and the mesenteric glands may be felt to be enlarged. If these are undergoing softening, they should be enucleated or cleared .out with the sharp spoon. If the Fallopian tube or ovary appears to be the primary focus, it should be removed. The wound is sutured and the usual dressings are applied. We have found it better to dispense with a drainage tube, as it tends to favour the formation of a sinus, and in some cases a faecal fistula subsequently forms at the site of the drainage opening. The improvement which follows laparotomy is often remarkable, and is probably due to reactive changes in the peritoneum increasing its bactericidalTHE PERITONEUM. 366 properties. If the fluid re-accumulates, the laparotomy may require to be repeated. Tapping the peritoneal cavity, as an alternative to laparotomy, is only to be employed to tide over a critical period in desperate cases. The encysted form of tuberculous ascites is much rarer, and is usually met with in adults, especially of the female sex. The infected area is enclosed by adhesions which may become con- densed so as to form a wall of considerable thickness and strength. The clinical features may closely resemble those of an ovarian or other cystic tumour, for which the affection has been mistaken. As there is little tendency towards recovery, recourse should be had to operation. The incision is made over the cystic swelling, wherever it may be, and the fluid removed. The wound is then closed with sutures. If the cavity is drained, a discharging sinus is liable to result. The 'purulent form of tuberculous peritonitis—or cold abscess of the belly—is rare, and is met with chiefly in female children. The illness runs a somewhat rapid course, emaciation is very pronounced, there is tenderness of the belly, and the temperature curve is of the hectic type. If left to nature, the abscess may reach the surface and rupture at the umbilicus. There should be no delay in performing laparotomy. The fluid resembles green pea-soup, and escapes in enormous quantity. No tubercles are felt on introducing the finger; the viscera are covered over by a uniform layer of gelatinous exudation. Although the prognosis is less favourable in purulent than in ascitic cases, we have observed remarkably rapid improvement and complete recovery. In the dry forms of peritoneal tuberculosis, associated with the formation of adhesions and matting of viscera, the abdomen is only moderately distended, and pain and tenderness are slight. On percussion there are irregular areas of dulness and resonance ; and on palpation there is either a general feeling of increased resistance, amounting to doughiness, or else hard, irrregular or nodular masses are felt. In some cases a sausage-shaped mass —the thickened and crumpled omentum—may be palpated running transversely across the abdomen about the level of the umbilicus. Fluid may collect in the spaces between adhesions, but it is small in quantity and does not yield fluctuation, nor does it change its position with the movements of the patient. On rectal examination it may be possible to feel scattered nodules in the peritoneum, or a prominent swelling consisting of adherent coils of bowel occupying the pouch of Douglas. The prognosis is grave in this form. There is little tendency367 TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. to spontaneous recovery, and various complications may ensue, such as abscess formation with rupture at the umbilicus or in the ileo-csecal region, sometimes followed by a faecal fistula or by the sudden or gradual development of intestinal obstruction. These graver cases are frequently associated with tuberculous ulceration of the bowel and with pulmonary phthisis. The treatment in this group of cases is not hopeful, and is surrounded with difficulties. The operation of laparotomy may prove very difficult on account of the dense matting of the intestines to each other and to the abdominal wall, and misguided attempts to unravel the coils may result in tearing the fragile intestine, thus bringing about a faecal fistula. In more favourable cases the tuberculous infection is limited to the neighbourhood of the primary focus—an intestinal ulcer, a tuberculous appendix or Fallopian tube—which primary focus should be removed. After any laparotomy for peritoneal tuberculosis there is a risk of tuberculous infection of the scar, resulting in its breaking down into an ulcer, sometimes followed by a faecal fistula, or after healing by a ventral hernia. Actinomycosis of the peritoneum usually arises from pre- existing disease in the intestine, especially in the caecum. A large insensitive mass, consisting of coils of intestine, omentum and inflammatory exudation, forms in the belly. This mass, which is at first hard, gradually softens, forming a chronic abscess, which bursts externally, leading to the formation of tortuous sinuses dis- charging pus containing the characteristic fungus. The disease tends to progress and to prove fatal. Treatment consists in the internal administration of iodides and the removal of the infected tissues with a sharp spoon. Peritoneal Adhesions and Bands.—Adhesions between ap- posed surfaces of peritoneum may result from any form of lesion within the abdomen. They result not only from affections which give rise to acute peritonitis, but also from those which pursue a chronic or latent course, such as gastric and intestinal ulcers, gall-stones, disease in the mesenteric glands, or tuberculous peritonitis. They also occur in relation to external hernia and after abdominal operations, especially those in which the peri- toneum has been roughly handled, or in which surfaces have been denuded of their serous covering. Adhesions are frequently reabsorbed. If they persist, they are liable to become elongated from being constantly dragged upon by the movement of the viscus to which they are attached, and to be moulded into a cord-like structure or “band” by the rolling movements of the intestines. A portion of adherent368 THE PERITONEUM. great omentum may be similarly elongated and moulded into a band. Bands consist of fibrous connective tissue invested by peritoneum, and they vary in length and in thickness from that of thick catgut to that of the little finger. Adhesions and bands may exist without giving rise to any symptoms, or they may, by fixing or dragging upon structures to which they are connected, cause suffering and bring about conditions dangerous to life. Abdominal pain and discomfort may result from traction on the parietal peritoneum; the functions of the stomach may be disturbed from the pylorus being dragged upon or narrowed; the intestine may become kinked, twisted or strangulated, causing colicky pain, constipa- tion or even obstruction of the bowels. The formation of adhesions after abdominal operations may to some extent be pre- vented by taking care to avoid irritating the peritoneum by rough handling or prolonged exposure, by removing all blood-clots from the peritoneal cavity, and by suturing the peritoneum over raw surfaces and pedicle stumps. Foreign Bodies in the Peritoneal Cavity.—It has been observed that when a foreign body such as a sponge, a portion of gauze or a metal instrument, has been accidentally left in the peritoneal cavity, it may enter the lumen of the bowel or may become encysted ; more frequently it determines the onset of peritonitis, and if this becomes localised an abscess forms which may rupture through the anterior abdominal wall or through the floor of the pelvis, and in fortunate cases the foreign body may be extruded and got rid of. When the condition is diagnosed the treatment consists in opening the abdomen and removing the body. Tumours of the Peritoneum and , Extra-peritoneal Cellular Tissue. Retro-peritoneal Tumours. — These originate behind the peritoneum in the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue, usually to one or other side of the vertebral column, and project towards the abdominal cavity, pushing forwards the posterior peritoneum and the intestines connected to it. They are usually innocent, and consist almost exclusively of fat—retro-peritoneal lipoma. In some there is a mixture of fat and myxomatous tissue; and transition forms to sarcoma are also met with. They do not cause symptoms until they attain a large size—tumours weighing over fifty pounds have been recorded—and then by their bulk they may exert pressure on adjacent viscera, or displace the intestines to one or other side or towards the hypochondrium.TUMOURS OF THE PERITONEUM. 369 The diagnosis is always difficult: a soft, movable tumour growing out of the lumbar region, and displacing the colon to one side, is probably retro-peritoneal; if the swelling is lobulated and yielding, it is probably a lipoma; if it is firmer in con- sistence, and associated with rapid loss of strength and weight, abdominal pain and irregular pyrexia, it is probably a sarcoma. The possibility of removing the tumour can only be determined after opening the abdomen; the peritoneal investment is incised and an attempt made to shell the tumour out from its bed. The chief danger arises from its relation to the intestine, as, if the mesenteric blood-vessels are injured, gangrene of the intestine may supervene. Mesenteric Tumours.—These originate in the retro-peritoneal tissue at the root of the mesentery, and as they increase in size insinuate themselves between the layers of the mesentery and project towards the abdominal cavity. They consist almost exclusively of fat, and form rounded or oval tumours occupying the central area of the abdomen, and showing a considerable range of movement from side to side and sometimes also from above downwards. One or more coils of intestine may run obliquely across the tumour. The operative treatment is carried out on the same lines as for the retro-peritoneal form. Mesenteric Cysts.—The chylous cyst, which takes origin from the lacteals or from the lymphatic glands in the mesentery, has a wall formed of tough connective tissue, which may undergo partial calcification, and it contains thick, turbid, greyish-white fluid, sometimes brown from admixture with blood pigment, and showing the presence of cholesterin and fat droplets. It is of insidious development, and may attain a considerable size before attention is directed to it by enlargement and prominence of the abdomen, by the sudden onset of colicky pains, or by symptoms of intestinal obstruction. The swelling, which may attain the size of an adult head, occupies the central part of the abdomen at or below the umbilicus, is rounded, tense and elastic, and if small, is freely movable from side to side. There is often a band of resonance across the cyst corre- sponding to a coil of intestine ; and there is usually an area of resonance between the cyst and the pubes. Although these points are characteristic, mesenteric cysts have frequently been mistaken for ovarian and pancreatic cysts and for other forms of abdominal tumour. The diagnosis often rests on the recognition of a freely movable rounded, cystic tumour which is not connected with the pelvis. Serous and haemorrhagic cysts are sometimes met with in the mesentery, and hair-containing dermoid cysts VOL. II—24370 THE PERITONEUM. also occur and are liable to leave a fistula after being opened and drained. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen, and if the conditions are favourable, it is best to shell out the cyst after incising the investing peritoneum ; otherwise the cyst is stitched to the parietal wound and drained. Omental Tumours.—Primary growths in the omentum are usually of the nature of sarcoma, occurring in the form of multiple nodules and being attended with ascites. Cancer only occurs secondarily, and most commonly as a sequel to cancer of the ovary or stomach. Malignant Disease of the Peritoneum.—This may be a primary affection in the form of colloid cancer or endothelioma; more often it is secondary to cancer of the stomach, liver, intestine, or ovary. The clinical features are those of an insidious ascites, not unlike that resulting from tuberculosis, with nodular tumours in different parts of the abdomen. On tapping, there escapes an abundant serous exudate, frequently turbid from the presence of degenerated cancer cells, and blood-stained from haemorrhage. If the abdomen is opened, the peritoneum is seen and felt to be studded with cancer nodules, which in the omentum are collected into larger masses. In the secondary forms, it may be possible to recognise the diseased organ from which the peritoneal metastases originated. Chylous ascites is due to the entrance of chyle into the peritoneal cavity as the result of rupture of the lacteals, or of stagnation from obstruction to the outflow from the thoracic duct. The fluid is opaque and milk-like from the presence of emulsified fat, and it may contain degenerated cells. The condition is rarely diagnosed until some of the fluid is drawn off. Hydatid cysts of the peritoneum are usually secondary to hydatid disease in the liver or in some other viscus. The cyst forms a rounded, tense, elastic tumour which has grown very slowly without causing symptoms. In about one-half of the cases there is distinct hydatid fremitus. The diagnosis is to be made from other cystic swellings, notably ovarian cysts and hydro- nephrosis. The cyst may be ruptured by external violence and cause peritonitis, usually of the infective variety. If the patient recovers from this, a crop of fresh cysts may spring up all over the peritoneum. If the cyst suppurates, it may burst on the skin surface, into the peritoneal cavity, or into one of the internal organs.371 SUB-PHRENIC ABSCESS. The Mesenteric Glands. These glands lie between the layers of the mesentery, and receive lacteals from the small intestine and the colon as far as the sigmoid flexure. Along with the retro-peritoneal glands, which lie beside the aorta, they transmit lymph and chyle to the thoracic duct. Infective agents may pass from the mucous membrane of the intestine to the glands by the lymph-stream. Tuberculous disease is extremely common. A diffuse caseating form, associated with tuberculosis of the peritoneum and intes- tine, is almost exclusively met with in children, and is known as tabes mesenterica. It is not amenable to surgical treatment. Disease localised to a single group of glands may give rise to complications which call for operation. It may, for example, lead to obstruction of the bowels, by setting up a localised adhesive peritonitis, followed by the formation of a band • by causing infiltration and contraction of the mesentery; or by adhesion and kinking of the intestine over a tuberculous gland. A rarer complication is that in which the gland, having become the seat of acute inflammatory softening, ruptures and discharges its purulent contents into the peritoneal cavity, setting up acute peritonitis. A group of tuberculous glands, usually those of the lower ileum, may become inflamed and give rise to a palpable mass in the right iliac fossa, which, when associated with severe pain and high fever, may be mistaken for ap- pendicitis. Enucleation of the inflamed glands should be performed if practicable. Suppuration in the mesenteric glands is one of the recognised complications of typhoid fever ; when met'with in the form of a circumscribed abscess this should be opened and drained. In lymphadenoma, lymphatic leucocythasmia, and in various forms of malignant disease, the mesenteric and retro-peritoneal glands are often extensively involved, and may form multiple tumour-like swellings within the abdomen. Sub-phken'ic Abscess. The term sub-phrenic abscess is applied to a collection of pus beneath the vault of the diaphragm. This space is divided by the suspensory ligament of the liver into two compartments —right and left—and the abscess may be situated in either of these. In a certain proportion of cases the pus accumulates in the cellular tissue behind the peritoneum, but in the majority the abscess is intra-peritoneal, the general peritoneal cavityTHE PERITONEUM. 372 having been previously shut off by adhesions. The abscess is usually situated on the same side of the body as the organ from which the original infection proceeded. Abscess on the right side (Fig. 91), for example, most often originates from lesions of the liver, bile-ducts, vermiform appendix, or right kidney, or from infective conditions of the right pleural cavity or thoracic wall; while abscess on the left side (Fig. 92) results from lesions of the stomach, left pleura, or left thoracic wall. Fig. 91.—Diagram of Sub-phrenic Abscess on right side, displacing the diaphragm and liver. The abscess may contain pus only, or pus and gas, the gas being derived from the perforation of a hollow organ, such as the stomach, or, as is more frequently the case, being formed within the abscess as a result of bacterial decomposition. The sub-phrenic abscess which follows upon lesions of the vermiform appendix is practically always on the right side, and it may be extra- or intra-peritoneal. When extra-peritoneal, it is due to an infection spreading upwards in the cellular tissue behind the ascending colon, or between the layers of the ascend- ing meso-colon. When intra-peritoneal, it is usually a sequel ofSUB-PHRENIC ABSCESS. 373 a general peritonitis which has subsided, leaving a localised collection of pus in the sub-phrenic space; sometimes it is a primary appendicular abscess formed around an appendix which is abnormally placed. The sub-phrenic abscess which follows upon lesions of the stomach is intra-peritoneal, and is nearly always located beneath the left vault of the diaphragm. It usually originates in an ulcer which has perforated into the lesser sac or in the vicinity Fig. 92.—Diagram of Sub-phrenic Abscess on left side, displacing the diaphragm, left lobe of liver, stomach and spleen. of the lesser curvature, the perforation having been preceded by adhesions, which confine the extravasated septic contents to the sub-phrenic space on the left side. The pus may perforate the diaphragm and enter the pleura, giving rise to empyema. The clinical features vary widely in different cases. There is usually a history of antecedent disease in one or other of the abdominal viscera. The prominent symptoms are those common to all forms of circumscribed intra-abdominal abscess, namely, pain, remittent fever, vomiting, progressive illness, with loss of appetite and strength. There is an increasing leucocytosis.374 THE PERITONEUM. The proximity of the abscess to the diaphragm may be indicated by a feeling of oppression and difficulty in taking a deep breath, and by pain over the lower ribs on one side radiating to the shoulder. There may also be tenderness and fulness over the lower intercostal spaces. In sub-phrenic abscess on the right side, there is usually a dome-shaped extension of the liver dulness, corresponding to the upward displacement of the diaphragm by the pus accumu- lated beneath it, and as the pus pushes the liver down, the liver dulness extends to a lower level than normally. Unless there is also an exudation of fluid into the pleura, the breath sounds are quite distinct immediately above the dull area. If there is gas as well as pus in the abscess, it may be possible to identify three zones, one above the other, which yield different notes on percussion : the lung resonance above; a zone of tym- panitic resonance in the middle due to the gas; and a dulness below, which corresponds to the pus and the liver. When the abscess is on the left side, it nearly always contains gas; the left lobe of the liver is displaced downwards and the heart upwards. If large, the abscess frequently extends forwards and bulges the epigastrium and lower ribs. The following zones may be identified by percussing the thorax from above downwards : firstly, the lung resonance; secondly, tympanitic resonance from the gas in the upper part of the sub-phrenic space; and thirdly, dulness from the pus in the lower part of the space, and below this, stomach resonance. If there is effusion into the pleura, a zone of dulness intervenes between the lung resonance and the tympanitic zone. It is advisable that the presence of pus be demonstrated before proceeding to incision and drainage. Exploratory puncture is carried out by means of a fairly long needle connected with the aspirator. The needle is inserted where the tenderness and dulness are most marked; its passage through the diaphragm may be recognised by the transmis- sion of respiratory movements. If the needle traverses the pleural cavity, serum may be withdrawn first, and when the needle is pushed in further, pus is obtained. If a single puncture is negative, the needle may be reinserted at different points. Before using the exploratory needle, all the preparations for operation should be made, and if pus is found the operation should be proceeded with at once. The incision is planned so as to afford the most direct access to the cavity of the abscess. If the abscess projects below the costal margin anteriorly, it is opened from the front; in the majority of cases the trans-375 SUB-PHRENIC ABSCESS. pleural route, similar to that employed for hepatic abscess, must be employed, and it yields the most efficient drainage. In rare cases the abscess is behind the liver, for example, when it has originated from the appendix or right kidney, and it may be possible to reach it by making an incision below the twelfth rib and then working upwards between the liver and the diaphragm. Even under favourable conditions sub-phrenic abscess is attended with a mortality of about 40 per cent. If the patient recovers, the question of interfering with the diseased organ from which the abscess originated may require to be considered.376 CHAPTER XXIV. THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. Surgical anatomy—Pathological anatomy : Catarrhal changes : Erosions ; Strictures; Concretions; Necrosis; Perforation; Bacteria concerned; Adhesive peritonitis; Circumscribed suppurative peritonitis or peri- appendicular abscess ; Diffuse peritonitis ; Conditions of occurrence ; Clinical features ; Diagnosis ; Prognosis ; Treatment ; Expectant measures ; Indications for operation ; Recurrent appendicitis ; Rela- tionships of appendicitis to colitis ; Appendicitis in children ; Appendicitis during pregnancy ; Tuberculosis, actinomycosis, and malignant disease of the appendix. Surgical Anatomy.—The vermiform appendix is a narrow, blind tube arising from the inner and back part of the caecum about three-quarters of an inch below the ileo-caecal junction (Fig. 93). Its length varies from half an inch to nine inches, the average being about two and a half to three inches. Its origin from the caecum is approximately indicated on the surface of the abdomen by a point about two inches from the anterior superior iliac spine on a line between this and the umbilicus—the so- called M‘Burney’s point. As the caecum is itself a movable organ and as the appendix is fixed to it only at its base and is provided with a mesentery, it enjoys a comparatively wide range of movement, so that its position in the abdominal cavity varies. It has been met with in every possible situation -which its length would allow it to attain. To find the appendix in the course of an operation, the anterior longitudinal band of the caecum affords the most reliable guide. If this band is traced downwards, it inevitably leads to the appendix, as the muscular fibres pass on to the base of the appendix and are continuous with its muscular coat. The three commonest situations of the appendix are : (1) Curling upwards and inwards from the caecum, under cover of the lower end of the ileum and its mesentery ; this is the situation in which it is most frequently found and which is associated with the classical symptoms of appendicitis. (2) Sometimes it hangs downwards over the brim of the pelvis, and when it becomes inflamed the local signs are referable chiefly to the pelvis—pelvic appendicitis—and any inflamma- tory swelling that may develop is best recognised by rectal or vaginal examination. (3) Not infrequently it is directed upwards, behind and towards the outer side of the caecum, and when inflammation occurs the infection is liable to spread to the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue—retro- coecal or retro-colic appendicitis. The appendix is completely covered by peritoneum, and has a well- formed mesentery, which connects the process to the under surface of theTHE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 377 Fig. 93.—Normal Csecum and Appendix. (After Kelly.) Gerlach. Under certain circumstances this may favour occlusion of the orifice and damming back of the contents of the tube. The artery of the appendix runs in the mesentery near its free border, and is liable to be compressed or kinked when the mesentery is pulled upon or twisted. The lymphatics pass in the mesentery to one or two small glands near its base, and from them the efferent vessels pass to the meso-colic glands behind the ascending colon. The minute structure of the appendix is remarkable chiefly on account of the large amount of lymphoid tissue in the submucous coat, suggesting an analogy with the tonsil, which it also resembles in its susceptibility to bacterial infection. mesentery belonging to the lower end of the ileum. The meso-appendix varies in length, in some cases extending to the tip of the organ, in,., others terminating about its middle ; it is sometimes so short that the appendix is attached to the caecum, while in the retro-cfecal type it may be absent altogether. * It is sometimes very thick from the presence of a large amount of fat. At the caecal orifice of the appendix there is sometimes a prominence of the mucous membrane, forming a small valve, originally described byTHE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 378 Appendicitis. Pathological Anatomy.—Appendicitis is due to bacterial infection of the mucous membrane and lymphoid tissue of the appendix, the organisms most commonly present being the bacillus coli, staphylococcus albus, and the streptococcus. The anatomical changes range from those which attend a simple catarrh of the mucous membrane to gangrene of the wall of the appendix. In catarrhal inflammation the swelling of the mucous membrane narrows the lumen, and may block the communication between the appendix and the caecum, so that the contents of the tube are retained and furnish a favourable nidus for organisms. Erosions are liable to form on the epithelial surface, and these enable the organisms to invade the submucous tissue, from which they may spread to the muscular and peritoneal coats. Such erosions are liable to be converted Fig. 94.—Inflamed Appendix showing perforation from which a rounded concretion projects. From a girl, net. 18. (Natural size.) into ulcers, similar to those described by Kocher as occurring in the mucous membrane of the intestine in obstruction of the bowels. The cicatricial changes that follow upon catarrh and ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane may result in the formation of one or more annular constrictions of the tube, which, by causing retention of the contents, may determine fresh outbreaks of inflammation from time to time. Another result of catarrhal inflammation with stagnation of the contents of the tube, is the formation of appendicular con- cretions (Fig. 95). These are rounded or oval calculi, consisting of a variable mixture of lime salts, bacteria and materials derived from the faeces, and they are usually so soft that they can be crushed between the fingers. They are commonly grasped by the wall of the appendix either near the apex or towards the middle of the tube, and they are sometimes found between two annular constrictions. Once formed, a concretion increases in size by further deposit on its exterior, and it tends to keep upPATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 379 the catarrhal process to which it owed its origin rather by damming up the secretion than by pressure. These concretions often bear a striking resemblance to date-stones, plum-stones or orange-pips, but it is extremely rare for any recognisable foreign body, which has been swallowed with the food, to be found in the appendix. Perforation of the appendix (Fig. 94) may result from the extension of an ulcer of the mucous mem- brane through the remaining coats, or from the bursting of an abscess which has formed in the wall of the appendix. More com- monly it results from gangrene, which may follow on catarrhal or ulcerative changes, or the infection may be so intense that gangrene takes place at the outset. The gangrene may affect one or more circumscribed areas, the necrotic patches being sharply defined from the surrounding tissue; or the whole of the distal portion of the appendix may become gangrenous. Sometimes the entire organ undergoes necrosis, and appears as a blackish-green, flaccid slough, completely separated from its connections, and scarcely to be recognised as an appendix. In ex- treme cases the gangrenous process spreads to the adjacent part of the caecum, and may cause extensive sloughing of its wall. When perforation of the appendix results from localised ulceration or necrosis, it may take place at the apex, particularly when the meso-appendix does not extend to the tip, or on the convex border, usually opposite the point at which the mesentery stops, or it may occur at the junction with the csecum. According to Murphy, the mesenteric attachment is the most common loca- tion of perforation. Perforation frequently takes place at the site at which a concretion is impacted in the lumen, and the resulting aperture may be large enough to allow the concretion as well as the material pent up in the appendix to escape into the peritoneal cavity (Fig. 94). Peritonitis.—Except in the mildest forms of catarrhal appen- dicitis, the serous coat is involved, and the subsequent course of the disease depends on the capacity of the surrounding peritoneum to contend with the infection. Fig. 95.—Faecal Con- cretions from the Appendix.THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 380 The formation of fibrinous lymph which gums together the adjacent peritoneal surfaces represents a successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to circumscribe and enclose the infection. These fibrinous adhesions usually involve the right lower border of the great omentum and the adjacent portions of the caecum and ileum, and the matting of these parts that results is partly responsible for the formation of the swelling in the right iliac fossa, which is one of the characteristic signs of appendicitis. If the process is arrested at this stage, the fibrinous lymph may be re-absorbed and complete recovery ensue, or the lymph may become organised into connective tissue and form adhesions, which may interfere with the functions of the caecum, by limiting its movements. The appendix also may be involved in adhesions so that it is fixed to adjacent structures or twisted or kinked—conditions which predispose it to repeated attacks of inflammation—recurrent appendicitis. Circumscribed suppurative peritonitis, resulting in the forma- tion of a peri-appendicular abscess, represents a less successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to overcome the in- fection. It usually results from a perforation of the appendix into a space already shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions. The abscess is walled in by the peritoneum of the iliac fossa, the caecum, the lower coils of the ileum, and the great omentum, which lies over these structures and becomes adherent to them. Such an encapsulated abscess forms a definite tumour in the right iliac fossa. Here again recovery may take place, the pus being re-absorbed and the limiting adhesions persisting to a greater or less extent. More frequently the abscess enlarges and ruptures, either through the abdominal parietes or into an adjacent viscus such as the rectum, bladder, or vagina, and in this way recovery is brought about. Some- times, however, the suppurative process destroys the limiting adhesions, and the abscess bursts into the general peritoneal cavity, and sets up a diffuse peritonitis. The appendix may hang free in the abscess cavity • more frequently it is buried in the purulent lymph forming the wall of the abscess ; in rare cases it sloughs off from the caecum and lies loose in the cavity. The situation of the abscess varies with the- anatomical position of the appendix. It is most often situated in the right iliac fossa to the inner side of the caecum, but not infrequently it is found on the outer side of, or behind the caecum, or in the pelvis. Sometimes it lies in the middle line below the umbilicus, and, in the case of a very long appendix, or when the caecum is displaced, it may actually be found in the left iliac fossa.381 CONDITIONS OF OCCURRENCE. When the caecum and appendix have not descended from the position underneath the liver, which they occupy at an early period in development, the abscess may form in the region of the gall-bladder. In whatever position the abscess originates, it may extend in an irregular manner, the limiting adhesions melting away, while fresh adhesions form beyond the spreading margin, and there may be several collections of pus separated from one another by adhesions. It is by no means uncommon to find a collection of pus in the pouch of Douglas, completely shut oft’ from the abscess around the appendix—a point of importance in treatment, as the deeper collection may escape recognition. The original abscess may spread to a considerable distance from the seat of its formation, for example, upwards along the ascending colon to the under surface of the diaphragm, or down- wards into the pelvis, and the pus may open into one of the hollow organs—the caecum, rectum, or bladder. Diffuse Peritonitis.—When the reaction of the peritoneum fails to form adhesions, the infection rapidly spreads, and becomes diffuse, or even generalised. Sometimes the infection is so virulent that the peritoneum fails to react at all, and only a small quantity of odourless, blood-stained serum is found in the peritoneal cavity. In other cases there is diffuse suppura- tion, with accumulations of pus in the pelvis and flanks and between the lower coils of intestine, while in the upper part of the abdomen the exudate is serous or sero-purulent. In a third group of cases, although the suppuration is not confined to the appendicular region, certain areas of the peritoneal cavity are shut off by adhesions so that the larger collections of pus are separate from one another. The cellular tissue in the iliac fossa may be infected either directly or by way of the lymphatics ; this was formerly known as perityphlitis. The suppuration may spread along the iliac fossa between the peritoneum and the iliac fascia as far as Poupart’s ligament, being prevented from entering the thigh by the attachment of the fascia to Poupart’s ligament, or it may spread upwards behind the ascending colon towards the diaphragm, or backwards into the loin. Conditions of Occurrence.—Although appendicitis is chiefly a disease of youth, and occurs with greatest frequency between the ages of ten and thirty, it may be met with at any period of life. It is approximately three times more common in the male than in the female—a fact of which there is no satisfactory explanation. It has been suggested that the additional blood- supply from the ovarian artery enables the appendix in the382 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. female better to withstand the attacks of bacteria. The infective process usually occurs in those who are apparently in good health, although in some cases it may follow upon constipation, an antecedent catarrh of the bowel, or on some general blood infection, such as influenza. The influence of cold, injury, excessive exertion, especially that entailing use of the psoas muscle, sometimes assigned as causes of appendicitis, are rather to be regarded as factors which may light up an acute inflamma- tion in an appendix which is already diseased. Certain families show a predisposition to appendicitis, which is probably due to some inherited structural peculiarity of the appendix and diminished resistance to infection. Whatever be the explana- tion, there is no doubt of the fact that the disease has increased in frequency within recent years. Clinical Features.—It should be stated at the outset that it is not always possible to co-relate the various clinical mani- festations of appendicitis with the different pathological lesions above described. The following description refers to a moderately severe, first attack of appendicitis in an adolescent, when the appendix is in its usual situation at the inner side of the caecum, and overlapped by coils of small intestine. The usual history is that the patient experiences a sudden, severe, griping or colicky pain in the abdomen, usually referred at first to the umbilicus. Within three or four hours of the onset of pain there is nausea and vomiting, and after the stomach has been emptied, the nausea passes off. There is some general sensitiveness of the abdomen, and although there is no general rigidity, the muscular fibres directly over the inflamed area may be spasmodically contracted and form a swelling, which is liable to be mistaken for the appendix. Soon after the onset of the attack the temperature begins to rise, and at the end of from eight to twelve hours reaches 100° to 101° F., and the pulse is accelerated (90 to 100). The pain and tenderness soon become localised to the right iliac fossa, and are most marked in the region of M‘Burney’s point. The tenderness prevents deep palpation, and even under an anaesthetic nothing abnormal can be felt. The bowels do not move and no flatus is passed. If the inflammation does not spread beyond the appendix, the pain gradually passes off and the other symptoms subside in the course of from twelve to thirty-six hours, and nothing remains but a little tenderness in the region of the appendix. Such attacks, however, are liable to recur, - constituting what is known as recurrent appendicitis. If the inflammation spreads to the surrounding peritoneum,CLINICAL FEATURES OF APPENDICITIS. 383 there is a recrudescence of pain, which is of the peritonitic type and no longer colicky in character. The abdominal wall in the right iliac region ceases to move with respiration, becomes rigid from muscular contraction, and excessively tender to touch, both on superficial and on deep palpation. The symptoms of general illness continue, vomiting may recur, the temperature remains elevated, and the pulse quickened. At this stage also the progress of the disease may become arrested, the severity of the illness abate, the signs of peritoneal reaction become localised, and, if the rigidity of the abdominal wall has yielded sufficiently to allow of palpation, a swelling can be recognised in the right iliac fossa. This swelling, which is composed of the parts that have become matted together with lymph, is roughly discoid in shape, varies in diameter from two to four inches, is not movable, and is tender to touch. If suppuration does not occur, the general symptoms still further subside, the evening rise of temperature is less, the bowels move or flatus is passed, and from the fifth to the seventh day onwards the swelling diminishes from the periphery towards the centre. The abdominal wall recovers its pliability, and the swelling usually disappears altogether in from fifteen to twenty days, but traces of it may remain as long as six or eight weeks. The persistence of adhesions after the attack has disappeared may determine recurrent attacks of appendicitis. If, on the other [hand, suppuration takes place within the area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions — circumscribed peri-appendicular abscess—the symptoms of localised peritonitis persist, the temperature continues to rise, or, if it has fallen, rises again, often reaching 103" to 104" F. The pulse also becomes more rapid and loses in quality. Sweating is often a prominent feature • and an examination of the blood reveals marked leucocytosis. The swelling increases in area, and may form a visible bulging in the right iliac fossa; it tends to become softer and more doughy, and is more tender. (Edema of the abdominal wall, dilatation of the surface veins, and fluctuation are later developments, and indicate that the pus is increasing in amount and approaching the surface. When the appendix is situated elsewhere than to the inner side of the CEecum, the physical signs differ from those above described. In the retro-ccecal and retro-colic forms of appendicitis, the pus accumulates behind or to the outer side of the colon, and, being outside the peritoneal cavity, the signs of peritonitis are absent or are little marked; the abdominal wall is not384 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. contracted and continues to move on respiration; no definite swelling can be felt, but an ill-defined, deeply-seated resistance may be recognised. There may be flexion of the right hip as a result of irritation of the ilio-psoas muscle, and there is some- times marked tenderness in the loin, where at a later stage there may be evidence that the pus is approaching the surface. In the pelvic form of appendicitis, the abdominal symptoms are less pronounced, and, as the abscess forms within the pelvis, it is only recognised on rectal or vaginal examination as a soft, sensitive swelling in the pouch of Douglas. The patient complains of frequency of micturition, difficulty in starting the act, and pain while the bladder is contracting, and especially at the end of micturition ; these symptoms are due to traction on the inflamed peritoneum covering the bladder. There may also be rectal tenesmus, and pain shooting down the right leg. If left to itself, an appendicular abscess may rupture on the skin surface, and this is usually followed by a persistent sinus, and sometimes by a fiscal fistula. The abscess may rupture into the rectum, and pus may be recognised in the stools; or it may rupture through the roof of the vagina, or into the bladder, in which case the pus is voided with the urine. If the infection reaches the peritoneum without having given rise to limiting adhesions, the phenomena are those of diffuse peritonitis—fulminating appendicitis. The symptoms of general peritoneal infection progress without any evidence of local reaction. The face assumes a dusky cyanotic hue, the features becoming drawn and pinched, and the expression anxious. Vomiting is usually persistent and is not accompanied by retching. The abdominal walls are rigidly contracted, do not move on respiration, and, in the later stages, the abdomen becomes distended. There may be nothing to indicate the appendicular origin of the disease, although pain and tenderness are usually more marked in the right iliac fossa than elsewhere. As these cases are not attended with any reaction on the part of the tissues, there is no swelling to be made out in the iliac fossa, and there is no leucocytosis. The symptoms of most value as indicating the gravity of the disease are : collapse, a rapid subsidence of the temperature to subnormal, and a small, feeble and rapid pulse. The patient may die within thirty-six hours of the onset of the illness, and he is often to the end remarkably calm and free from suffering, and fails to realise the gravity of his condition. In some cases the patient lives for several days, the Anal symptoms being those of intestinal obstruction due to paralysis of the bowel.385 DIAGNOSIS OF APPENDICITIS. Diagnosis.—While it is true that in the majority of cases there is little difficulty in recognising the disease, in a consider- able number the clinical features so closely simulate those of other acute abdominal affections that it may be extremely difficult by external examination alone to arrive at a diagnosis. The three cardinal signs to be borne in mind are : (1) sudden and severe abdominal pain coming on in one previously well; (2) unilateral rigidity of the lower part of the abdominal wall; and (3) tenderness over the site of the appendix. Stress should also be laid on the order of onset of the symptoms : first pain, then vomiting, and later tenderness, with rise of temperature (Murphy). In acute indigestion there is no rigidity of the right lower quadrant of the abdominal wall, no tenderness on pressing in the right iliac fossa, and the pain does not become localised in the region of the appendix. In acute gastro-duodenal catarrh, associated with what is popularly called a “ bilious attach-,” there are cramp-like pains in the abdomen and vomiting, but the pain and tenderness are more pronounced above the umbilicus. In intestinal colic and in acute enteritis there is no tenderness, the pain being rather relieved by pressure, and there is no rigidity of the abdominal wall. In intestinal obstruction the pain is markedly remittent, and after being at first referred to the umbilicus, becomes located at the site of the obstruction; the vomiting is persistent, and the vomited matter soon shows the presence of intestinal contents; the temperature is normal, and in acute cases shock and collapse appear early. In inflammation of a Aleck cl’s diverticulum—diverticulitis— the clinical features so closely resemble those of appendicitis that it is impossible to differentiate between them until the abdomen is opened. In typhoid fever the onset of the illness is different; when the disease has existed for some days the Widal reaction is present; and the local features are usually sufficiently distinctive to differentiate the two diseases. When, however, there is perforation of the bowel in typhoid fever, and especially in ambulatory cases, the diagnosis may be very difficult; the sudden fall of the temperature and the immediate symptoms of collapse which follow perforation of a typhoid ulcer are usually decisive. In perforated gastric or duodenal ulcer, the onset of symptoms is usually much more sudden; the patient immediately becomes collapsed, and the contraction and rigidity of the abdominal VOL. II—25THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 386 muscles is most marked in the upper part of the abdomen. In perforated duodenal ulcer, however, the rigidity spreads down the right side of the abdomen and thus involves the muscles in the right iliac region. The simulation of appendicitis is so close that in a considerable number of cases of duodenal ulcer the appendix has been cut down upon in the first instance. The most difficult cases are those in which a retro-peritoneal abscess has resulted from duodenal perforation. In colitis there is diffuse abdominal pain, but the tenderness is localised over the colon, which may be felt to contract under the examining fingers. The onset is not acute, and there is an absence of rigidity of the abdominal muscles. In affections of the gall-bladder an accurate history and careful palpation usually clear up the difficulty. In cases, however, in which the appendix is situated in the immediate vicinity of the gall-bladder, it may be impossible to differentiate the inflamma- tion of such an appendix from inflammation of the gall-bladder. In inflammation of the ureter—ureteritis, the presence of pain and tenderness along the line of the ureter, especially in that part of it which crosses the iliac vessels, may simulate those of appendicitis, but there is no rigidity of the abdominal wall, and there are changes in the urine, and other features, which enable a diagnosis to be made. In acute pneumonia and diaphragmatic pleurisy on the right side the pain may be referred to the abdomen, and the abdominal muscles on the same side may not move with respiration ; atten- tion should be directed to the seat of tenderness and to the examination of the lungs. In the female the following affections may .require to be differentiated from appendicitis: (1) Painful menstruation.— The sudden onset of pain at the beginning of a menstrual period in a young unmarried woman of neurotic temperament, especi- ally if accompanied by nausea, and some rigidity of the lower abdominal wall, may closely simulate appendicitis, but pyrexia is usually absent, and there is the history of similar phenomena at previous menstrual periods. (2) Pelvic peritonitis, resulting from a pyosalpinx or other diseased condition of the uterine adnexa on the right side, usually begins with high temperature, but with scarcely any increase in the frequency of the pulse or with any change in the facial expression ; vomiting is less pro- nounced, and the abdomen is tender in both ili^c regions and above che pubes. The progress of the disease is less continued than in an appendicitis; the symptoms and signs come and go, and the patient does not go downhill nearly so rapidly. A387 TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. vaginal examination does not always clear up the difficulty, because there may be swelling and tenderness in both affections. In inflammatory affections of the uterine adnexa the most tender external point is just above the middle line of Poupart’s ligament. (3) In ruptured tubal pregnancy there is usually a history of partial or total cessation of the menstrual flow for one, two, or more periods, generally accompanied by other symptoms of pregnancy, with the sudden onset of abdominal pain followed by collapse; an irregular, bloody vaginal discharge is present, and the patient becomes blanched and manifests other signs of loss of blood. Treatment.—One of the greatest practical difficulties with regard to the treatment of acute appendicitis is to recognise the cases that require operation and those that do not. It is only by a careful consideration of all the circumstances in each indi- vidual case that the question can be decided, and all we can do here is to indicate the general rules by which we are guided. If within twenty-four hours of the onset there is a decided improvement in all the symptoms, that is to say, that no one symptom persists—be it pain, vomiting, increased frequency of the pulse, or fever—operation may be deferred, but the patient must be kept under continuous observation. He should lie absolutely quiet, with the knees flexed over a pillow ; and warm antiseptic fomentations or cold water tubes or an ice-bag may be applied over the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. He is allowed nothing by the mouth except sips of hot saline solution. The bowels must not be disturbed either by medicine or enemata, and palpation of the abdomen must be restricted to a minimum. If thirst is a prominent symptom, it may be relieved by the introduction of saline solution into the rectum. At this stage opiates should be withheld ; if colicky pain is a prominent symptom, it may be relieved by the administration of yl^th grain of atropin hypodermically. The patient is confined to bed until all the symptoms have disappeared. We would advise operation in all cases seen within twenty- four hours of the onset, in which from the first the symptoms have been pronounced, and the temperature is rising, the pulse becoming more rapid, or the pain persisting or increasing in severity; and particularly if at the same time the abdomen is ceasing to move with respiration and is becoming more tender. Even if it is admitted that a considerable proportion of such cases may recover, the fact remains that a certain number will pass beyond the stage at which it is possible to save them by surgical means. Early operation is more urgently called for in388 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. children and in adolescents because of the frequency with which in them the disease terminates in suppuration or in gangrene. Operation.—The most favourable time for operation during an attack is within forty-eight hours of the onset. As the danger of operative intervention during this period is scarcely more than that of an exploratory laparotomy, this should be considered the period of action. In cases operated on within the first forty- eight hours there is every prospect of complete recovery, with a short convalescence; every hour of delay increases the risks associated with the occurrence of suppuration and peritonitis, and prolongs the period necessary for recovery. In acute cases attended with persistent vomiting, and parti- cularly when peritonitis has commenced, it is advisable to wash out the stomach before operating. One or two pints of saline solution may be injected into the rectum, and the bladder should be emptied by the aid of the catheter if necessary. The patient must be kept very warm, and to render the appendicular region more accessible the pelvis should be slightly raised by tilting the table. The abdomen is opened by an incision over the appendix, either in the line of the fibres of the external oblique, or parallel with the outer edge of the rectus. The edges of the peritoneum are covered with gauze held in place by fine forceps. A large pad of gauze wrung out of hot salt solution is placed beneath the inner edge of the wound, a second in the upper angle towards the liver, and a third in the lower angle towards the pelvis. The caecum is now identified, and the appendix sought for by fracing to it the anterior longitudinal muscular band of the caecum. When found, the appendix, together with the caecum, is drawn towards the surface, the meso-appendix ligatured, the base of the appendix crushed with strong forceps, and a ligature tied in the groove left by the forceps. The appendix is then cut across and removed, and the stump invaginated into the caecum by tw7o super- imposed purse-string sutures, or by a double tier of Lembert’s sutures. The pads of gauze walling off the peritoneal cavity are now withdrawn, and if they are found to be stained with serous or purulent exudate the surrounding area must be purified by removing this exudate, either with swabs of gauze or by gentle irrigation. A cigarette drain is then passed into the lowest part of the cavity and brought out through the lower angle of the wound. It is sometimes advisable to bring a drainage tube through a counter-opening in the loin, just above the iliacTREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. 389 crest. The anterior wound is closed with sutures, except where the drain emerges. If there is diffuse peritonitis, irrigation of the peritoneal cavity should be carried out (p. 362). Much difference of opinion exists regarding the value of irrigation under these conditions, but we believe it to be the least damaging method of cleansing the peritoneal cavity. After the patient is put back to bed and has recovered from the effects of the anaesthetic, he is placed in the semi-sitting position—-35 to 45 degrees; or the head of the bed is raised on high blocks, to cause the fluid in the peritoneal cavity to gravitate towards the pelvis, and so to favour drainage. Saline fluid is allowed to flow gently into the rectum from a douche-can placed about twelve inches above the level of the patient; and if vomiting persists, the stomach should be washed out. The day after the operation a turpentine enema is given. At the end of forty-eight hours a purgative (3 to 5 grains of calomel) is given by the mouth. Some surgeons refrain from giving a purgative for seven or eight days. After the operation the pulse and temperature must be care- fully watched ; an increase in the temperature or in the pulse rate usually indicates that the drainage is imperfect; it may be that pus has collected in the pouch of Douglas, where it can be detected by rectal or vaginal examination. Operation for Circumscribed Abscess.—It is not always possible to tell by examination whether an abscess has become adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, or whether the general peritoneal cavity will have to be crossed in order to reach the pus. It is a safe rule to cut down directly over the abscess rather than over the supposed position of the appendix. The parietes are incised until the peritoneum is reached, and a small opening is made in the peritoneum. If pus oozes out, the opening is enlarged and the pus soaked up with gauze swabs. If the appendix is easily found, it should be removed, the mesentery and the stump of the organ being simply ligatured. Drainage is then provided for by glass or rubber tubes, surrounded by cigarette drains of iodoform worsted, passed to the lowest part of the abscess, and the rest of the wound is closed. If, on the other hand, the appendix, cannot be identified without breaking down adhesions in searching for it, and so running the risk of infecting the general peritoneal cavity or of giving rise to a faecal fistula, its removal should be deferred until after the abscess has been drained and the septic element eliminated. If the peritoneal cavity must be crossed to reach the pus, it390 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. should be carefully packed off with gauze on all sides before proceeding to empty the abscess. When the abscess is in the pelvis, the drainage afforded by the abdominal wound may not prove sufficient, and it is then necessary to bring out a drainage tube through the posterior fornix of the vagina or through the rectum. If the appendix has not been excised at the time the abscess was opened, its removal should be undertaken as soon as is practicable, as there is considerable risk of recurrence of the disease so long as it remains. Complications which may follow an operation for Ap- pendicitis.—These are rarely met with if the operation has been performed during the first forty-eight hours, but are not un- common in cases in which operation has been longer delayed. (1) Secondary abscesses are usually due to defective drainage of the original collection of pus or to separate foci of suppuration amongst adhesions. They may form in the pelvis and may heal spontaneously after discharging by the vagina or rectum ; or in the right sub-phrenic space, necessitating an operation for their drainage. (2) Intestinal obstruction is usually due to adhesions involving the small intestine and causing kinking of it; or to the formation of a band which causes strangulation of the bowel. The obstruction may occur after an interval of weeks, months, or even years. (3) A sinus discharging pus or muco-pus may persist in the track of the drainage tube, and may be due to the presence in the wound of an infected ligature or a concretion, or to a portion of the appendix which has been left behind. (4) Faecal fistula. A communication may exist with the bowel, and discharge faecal matter mixed with pus and intestinal secretions. The discharge may come from the lumen of a perforated appendix, or from the caecum or other portion of intestine, as a sequel to necrosis and sloughing of the wall. The sloughing may be due to the appendicitis, to the pressure of a drainage tube, or to packing of the wound or abscess cavity with gauze which has not been protected with rubber tissue. In most instances the fistula heals spontaneously. The dressings should be changed several times a day, and the surrounding skin must be protected by an ointment containing oxide of zinc. Sometimes the continued use of a drainage tube prevents the healing of the fistula. If the fistula persists, it is necessary to close it by an operation, which consists in opening the peritoneal cavity, removing the appendix or what remains of it, and closing the opening in the intestine by sutures. When a considerable portion of the wall of the caecum has sloughed,RECURRENT APPENDICITIS. 391 it may be extremely difficult to close it, and it becomes necessary to resect the caecum and implant the ileum into the colon. Such operations are by no means devoid of danger, and are sometimes followed by the formation of fresh fistulse. The occurrence of jaundice is a serious complication, as it is an evidence of general septic infection, which proves fatal in the majority of cases. Among other complications may be mentioned thrombosis of the femoral vein, usually on the left side ; various chest complications; and parotitis, these being common to all abdominal infections; sub-phrenic abscess has already been described (p. 371). Ventral hernia may follow an operation for acute appendicitis when the wound has been left open for drainage. The treatment is to excise the scar, to open the peritoneal cavity, divide omental and other adhesions, and reunite the different layers .of the abdominal wall. When operation is contra-indicated a pad and belt should be worn. Recurrent and Chronic Appendicitis. Recovery from a first attack of appendicitis is followed by recurrence in a proportion of cases which has been estimated at about 20 per cent; there would appear to be no difference in the liability to recurrence between those cases that suppurate and those that do not. The anatomical changes met with in and around the appendix vary widely. In some cases they are very slight, and, but for the fact that the attacks cease after removal of the appendix, it would be difficult to believe that it had been the cause of the symptoms. In many cases the appendix appears normal to the naked eye, but on microscopical examination shows catarrhal changes in the mucous membrane, hyperplasia of the submucous and muscular coats, and more or less round-celled infiltration throughout all the coats; in others the mucous membrane is atrophied and has been replaced by granulation or cicatricial tissue, and it is under these conditions that the opposing surfaces of the lumen may become united, or so narrowed as to cause stricture ■ when the lumen is completely obliterated the term appendicitis obliterans is applied to the condition. In many cases there are marked naked-eye alterations in the appendix : sometimes it is thicker, stiffer and firmer than normal; if the lumen is narrowed by cicatricial changes,392 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. concretions may be present; or if there is a localised obliteration of the lumen, the distal portion may be distended into a cyst. In a considerable number of cases, while the appendix itself is not the seat of any structural change, it is kinked, twisted, or bound down by a localised contraction of its mesentery. Less commonly the appendix is bound to the caecum or buried in adhesions, so that it can be discovered only with considerable difficulty; or it may be attached to the parietal peritoneum, the ovary, the Fallopian tube, the bladder, the rectum, or even to some such distant organ as the gall bladder. The clinical features vary widely both as to the frequency and severity of the attacks. After the original attack the patient may remain well for weeks, months, or even years before being troubled again, or the attacks may recur at short intervals, so that the patient is never really well, and is unable to continue his occupation. In some cases the attacks are slight from the first, the patient never having suffered acutely. The history frequently is that each attack commences with a feeling of discomfort in the abdomen, which the patient from his previous experience recognises as indicating the advent of another seizure. This discomfort is succeeded after a variable period by pain, which is at first slight, but gradually becomes more and more severe, and may be followed by vomiting. The pain is referred all over the abdomen, and after lasting for some hours subsides, leaving some tenderness, especially in the right iliac fossa, which gradually passes off. In other cases, each recurrent attack may present the features of an acute appendicitis, and is liable to culminate in suppuration, and the complications attendant upon this may ensue. The recurrent attacks are usually attributed by the patient to such causes as strain, chill, indiscretions in diet, or inattention to the bowels, factors which would probably be inoperative unless the appendix or its mesentery were already the seat of patho- logical changes. The diagnosis is easy when the patient is seen during one of the attacks, the symptoms already described being present, and the physical signs of appendicitis being recognisable in the right iliac fossa. In cases in which the patient has not been under observation during the attacks, however, and in cases of recurrent appendicular colic, attacks of pain associated with colitis in- volving the caecum or adhesions in the vicinity of the appendix from antecedent injury or dysentery, or with chronic ulcer of the duodenum, may be mistaken for appendicitis. Attacks of pain due to renal calculus or movable kidney; to inflammatory393 RECURRENT APPENDICITIS. affections of the ureter associated with the passage of oxalate gravel or stone; or to disease of the ovary or Fallopian tube, may also simulate appendicitis. Treatment.—The removal of the appendix after a first attack of appendicitis is indicated : if the patient wishes to insure his life; if he desires to enter one of the public services; or if he intends to reside where he will be out of reach of surgical assistance. Operation is advisable also in children, because, if recurrence takes place, it is often of a grave type; and in cases in which the first attack has never been entirely recovered from. After a second attack, the appendix should be removed, unless some such contra-indication to operation as phthisis, Bright’s disease, diabetes, or other grave constitutional disease is present. The operation, as a rule, is a very simple one, and is carried out on the same lines as that for the removal of the appendix in the early stages of the acute disease. Sometimes the presence of adhesions renders it more difficult, and much care must be exercised in separating the appendix if it is firmly adherent to such organs as the intestine or the bladder; in some cases it is safer to leave the serous coat of the appendix attached to the viscus than to run the risk of injuring the latter. When the appendix is so buried in adhesions or in the wall of the caecum as to render its complete removal impossible, it should be split open and its mucous membrane removed with a sharp spoon, any remains of it being destroyed with the cautery. In operations upon women, the right ovary and tube should be examined, in case a lesion of these organs may have contri- buted to the production of the symptoms. As drainage is not required, the abdominal wall can be accurately reconstituted by suturing in layers, and the patient may be allowed up within ten days or a fortnight. Relationships of Appendicitis to Muco-membranous Colitis.— When a patient is the subject of colitis and suffers from painful crises, accompanied by diarrhoea and the passage of mucus or false membranes in the stools, and if the caecum is the main seat of the inflammation, the condition is liable to be mistaken for a chronic or recurrent lesion of the appendix and a needless operation may be performed. On the other hand, a colitis in- volving the caecum and a chronic lesion of the appendix may co-exist, although the combination is very rare, and it is often difficult to determine which of the two diseases occurred first; under these conditions the surgeon cannot promise the patient that by removing the appendix the colitis will be cured, but by394 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. so doing he will get rid of one of the sources of suffering and of danger, and experience has shown that in many cases the colitis is benefited by appendectomy. Appendicitis in Children.—In infants, below the age of two, appendicitis is comparatively rare. It usually supervenes on an attack of gastro-enteritis ; the symptoms are severe, and the disease runs a rapid course, and in a large proportion of cases ends fatally by setting up diffuse peritonitis. In cases occurring during the second year, localised suppuration sometimes occurs, and even when operation is performed the prognosis is grave. As childhood advances, from two to fifteen, the disease be- comes increasingly frequent. Localised suppuration is common, and when diffuse peritonitis occurs it is usually due to the rupture of an abscess into the general peritoneal cavity. Actual perforation and gangrene are perhaps less common below the age of fifteen than above it. Recurrent appendicitis is un- common at this age, and when it does occur, is more liable to lead to the formation of pus than in adults. The clinical features are similar to those of adults, but as it is impossible to elicit a clear consecutive history from the patient, they are more difficult to interpret. In children vomiting is more apt to be repeated, the fever is usually higher, and the pulse more rapid. Rigidity of the abdominal muscles is not so valuable a sign as in adults, because a child is apt to resist any examination of the abdomen; but when it is accompanied by persistent pain referred to the region of the appendix, and tenderness on pressure in this area, it is strongly suggestive of appendicitis. The early development of a palpable swelling aids materially in the diagnosis. A rectal examination, under an anaesthetic if necessary, should never be neglected, as a sense of resistance or swelling in the right side of the pelvis may thus be detected. The differential diagnosis is to be made from intussusception, stone in the bladder, a distended bladder, pleurisy or pneumonia with referred abdominal pain, latent tuberculous peritonitis with acute exacerbation, softening tuberculous glands in the right iliac fossa, and pneumococcal peritonitis. In persons over fifty years of age, the appendix tends to become involuted, with disappearance of the lymphoid tissue. When it becomes the seat of inflammation it is rare to have extensive gangrene ; usually there is a small perforation, resulting in the formation of a large abscess in the iliac fossa. The recur- rent form is rare, and adhesions are exceptional. The occurrence of appendicitis during pregnancy is not395 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE APPENDIX. uncommon. When it occurs during the early months the patient is very liable to abort, especially if the right uterine appendages are involved in the disease. In view of the risks which may ensue, the patient should be subjected to operation as soon as the condition is diagnosed. Tuberculosis of the Appendix.—Tuberculous disease may occur in the appendix alone, but is usually an accompaniment of tuberculosis of the caecum or of the surrounding peritoneum. When the bacillus reaches the appendix by way of the intestine, it affects the mucous membrane in the first instance, and the disease then spreads to the other coats. In a considerable number of cases the condition gives rise to no symptoms. When it is attended with acute symptoms they simulate those of ordinary appendicitis, except that diarrhoea is more commonly present. In the chronic variety the attacks are mild, and diarrhoea is very frequently present; there may be recurrent attacks of pain; and a localised cold abscess may form in the iliac fossa ; or the tuberculosis may spread to the peritoneum. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for ordinary appendicitis. Actinomycosis is a very rare condition, and usually escapes recognition until the characteristic fungus is found in the pus discharging from an abscess or sinus over the appendix. Primary malignant disease of the appendix is a rare condi- tion, which is only discovered accidentally in the routine exam- ination of the organ after removal; the disease is usually a columnar epithelioma. In the majority of the recorded cases the symptoms were those of a mild appendicitis, and the results of the removal of the organ have been highly satisfactory.396 CHAPTER XXV. HERNIA. Definition—Constituent parts — Richter’s hernia — Littre’s hernia— Etiology of hernia—Clinical conditions : Reducible; Irreducible ; Obstructed or Incarcerated; Strangulated—Inguinal hernia: Anat- omy ; Varieties; Oblique ; Direct; Interstitial hernia; Inguinal hernia in children—Femoral hernia—Umbilical—Ventral—Lumbar —Obturator—Diaphragmatic—Hernia of individual viscera. The term hernia is applied to the protrusion of any of the abdominal contents from the cavity of the abdomen. When bowel or omentum is protruded, the term hernia is applied without qualification, but when other viscera are present, such terms as “ hernia of the bladder,” “ hernia of the stomach,” and so on, are employed. The popular name “ rupture ” is misleading, as the formation of a hernia is not attended with tearing of tissue. The common varieties of hernia are known as inguinal, femoral, and umbilical, from the regions with which they are respectively associated. Etiology of Hernia.—The chief predisposing factor favouring the development of hernia is an error or defect in development. Certain hernias, particularly in the inguinal and umbilical regions, are congenital, and are due to imperfect closure of the openings in the abdominal wall. The weakness of the abdominal wall at the umbilicus or at any point where its normal constituents have been replaced by scar tissue, also favours the formation of a hernia, and the structural arrangements at the inguinal and femoral canals act in the same direction. Males are more liable to hernia than females because of the frequency of errors of development in relation to the obliteration of the processus vaginalis, and of the weakness of the abdominal wall at the site of passage of the spermatic cord, and because of the more laborious nature of their occupations.397 ETIOLOGY OF HERNIA. The frequency with which hernia occurs varies at different periods of life. Those forms due to congenital defects are common in infancy and childhood. The condition comparatively seldom develops during adolescence and early adult life, but as age advances it becomes more common. In old age, the attachment of the mesentery to the posterior abdominal wall may descend to a lower level than normal, and thus increase the tendency to hernia; this “ prolapse of the mesentery ” (Lockwood) is often associated with an alteration in the configuration of the abdomen—a flattening or recession above, and a bulging below the umbilicus. Among the exciting causes most importance attaches to those conditions which increase the intra-abdominal pressure, such as the muscular effort involved in laborious occupations, especially the lifting of heavy weights while in the stooping posture. In infants excessive crying, in adults coughing and straining at defecation or micturition, act in a similar manner. Constituent Parts of a Hernia.—In describing a hernia it is customary to refer to its sac, its coverings, and its contents. The sac is derived from the parietal peritoneum, and in the slowly acquired hernia of the adult is at first represented by a mere laxity or bulging of the peritoneum. Later, at one point a dimple is formed, which gradually deepens and becomes elongated into a tube-like process which forces its way between the layers of the abdominal wall. This tube-like structure gradually reaches the subcutaneous tissue, and there, relieved of pressure, expands and becomes spherical or pyriform in shape. To some extent the increase in length of the sac may be due to a gliding dis- placement of the peritoneum, but it is chiefly the result of gradual stretching of the membrane. The upper end or narrow portion of the sac is known as the neck, the expanded lower end as the fundus. The sac may present an hour-glass shape, or may be multilocular from the formation of diverticula. The sac becomes fixed by adhesions to the surrounding tissues, so that it cannot be returned within the abdomen. In congenital hernia the sac is represented by a tubular process of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis—which ought to have been obliterated before birth. If the neck of the sac becomes obliterated by adhesion of its walls or by a plug of omentum, it is cut off from the peritoneal cavity, and the sac may fill with fluid and consti- tute a hydrocele of the hernial sac. The coverings are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall traversed by the hernia, variously altered by stretching and pressure.398 HERNIA. The contents may be represented by any of the structures within the abdomen. The small intestine and the great omentum are those most commonly present. When intestine alone is pro- truded, the hernia is termed an enterocele; when omentum only, an epiplocele. The term Richter's hernia is applied when only a part of the circumference of the intestine is protruded (Fig. 96). A Littre's hernia is one containing a Meckel’s diverticulum. Fluid derived from the peritoneal cavity may be present in the sac, particularly in cases of tuberculous and other forms of ascites. Fig. 96.—Richter’s Hernia—from a strangulated femoral hernia, with gangrene and perforation at constriction ling. The structures within the hernial sac may become adherent to one another or to the inner surface of the sac. The omentum is specially liable to become fixed by adhesions, while the intes- tine, in virtue of its greater range of movement, more often remains free. The protruded omentum may undergo a con- siderable increase in bulk from deposit of fat in its substance, and in hernise of long standing may become tough and fibrous, particularly when pressed upon by a truss. Clinical Conditions of Hernia. A hernia may be reducible, irreducible, obstructed, or strangulated. A reducible hernia is one in which the contents of the sac399 CLINICAL CONDITIONS OF HERNIA. can be returned within the abdomen. The sac being fixed to the surrounding tissues, cannot be replaced. The reduction may take place spontaneously when the patient lies down, or may be effected by manipulation on the part of the patient or of the surgeon, this manipulation being known as taxis. A reducible hernia forms a soft, rounded swelling, which when the patient strains or coughs presents an expansile impulse known as the “impulse on coughing.” When the sac contains intestine alone, the swelling is elastic, uniform, and resonant on percussion; during reduction there is a characteristic gurgle, and the last portion of the bowel is the most easily reduced. When there is omentum only, the swelling is less uniform in consistence, is uneven, knotted or lumpy, and is dull on percussion ; there is no gurgle on reduction, and the last part is the most difficult to reduce. Very commonly both bowel and omentum are present in the sac. The symptoms of reducible hernia vary greatly in different patients. Many are unaware that they are the subjects of hernia, and go about for years without inconvenience or anxiety. Strong, young adults suffer a great deal and may, even before there is any swelling visible externally, complain of severe colicky pain in the region of the hernia, and, in the case of males suffering from inguinal hernia, of pain referred along the spermatic cord. There is an inability to lift weights, or to take part in any form of exercise calling for muscular exertion. Prognosis.—If untreated, a hernia tends to become larger and more unmanageable, and at any time it may become strangulated. A person with a rupture which is not controlled by a truss is not accepted for life insurance. Treatment.—The alternatives before the patient are, either to have the hernia controlled by a truss, or to have it cured by operation. The details will be described with the individual herniae. Irreducible Hernia.—An irreducible hernia is one in which the contents of the sac cannot be completely returned within the abdomen. The commonest cause of irreducibility is the presence of adhesions between the contents and the sac, especially adhesions implicating the omentum ; less frequently it is due to increase in bulk of the prolapsed omentum from continued deposition of fat in it. Sometimes, as in large umbilical or scrotal hernia, the mere bulk of the hernial contents is an obstacle to reduction, because there is no longer accommodation for them within the abdomen (Fig. 97). The symptoms and signs otherwise are similar to those of aHERNIA. 400 Fig. 97.—Large irreducible Inguinal Hernia, containing the descending colon, caecum, about fourteen feet of small intestine, and a portion of omentum. Subsequently cured by operation. descent of further portions of bowel or omentum, and thus paves the way for the occurrence of strangulation. Treatment.-—The most efficient treatment of irreducible hernia is, by means of an operation, to return the protruded viscus into the abdomen and to close the opening through which it had escaped. If ojreration is refused or is contra-indicated, an attempt must be made to reduce the hernia. This is done by confining the patient to bed with the foot of the bed raised, by restricting the diet and regulating the bowels, and by apply- ing steady pressure with a pad of wool and an elastic bandage. If this succeeds, the hernia may then be controlled by means of reducible hernia. The impulse on coughing is present although it may not be easily recognised. There is often complaint of a sense of weight, of dragging, or of colicky pains, and of digestive disturbances. Irreducibility is a constant source of danger because it is incompatible with the proper use of a truss, and by keeping open the hernial aperture it tends to favour theSTRANGULATED HERNIA. 401 a truss. If it fails, an operation becomes imperative. In those who are not tit subjects for operation, the symptoms may be relieved, and the danger of strangulation lessened, by wearing some form of apparatus, such as an excavated pad or a bag, which will support the protrusion. Obstructed or Incarcerated Hernia.—This condition is chiefly met with in fat women who suffer from irreducible umbilical hernia, and have allowed the bowels to become overloaded. The passage of faeces along the loop of bowel involved in the pro- trusion is impeded, and the hernia becomes swollen, tender, and firm or doughy in consistence, the patient complaining of colicky pains and vomiting. The condition is often looked upon as a bilious attack, and therefore as of little importance, but it is really a grave condition, and may merge insensibly into strangulation. The treatment consists in confining the patient to bed, the foot of which is raised, and emptying the colon by means of copious enemata, succeeded by gentle kneading and taxis. If the symptoms are not relieved, recourse must be had to operation. Strangulated Hernia.—A hernia is said to be strangulated when the circulation of blood through the contents of the sac is seriously impeded. The passage of intestinal contents along the loop of bowel contained in the sac is also arrested, and there is in consequence obstruction of the bowel. Strangu- lation may occur at any stage in the history of a hernia, even the first time the intestine is protruded, or it may develop in a hernia of many years’ standing. It is on the whole less likely to occur in large hernise in which the canal is widely dilated than in small ones. The occurrence of strangulation involves serious risk to life, because of obstruction of the bowels and septic complications. Mechanism of Strangulation. — Strangulation ensues when the disproportion between the calibre of the neck of the sac and the bulk of the structures passing through it is such that the blood-vessels of the protruded viscus are compressed. This may be brought about by an addition to the contents of the hernia, for example, by a sudden exertion on the part of the patient forcing an extra loop of intestine down through the hernial aperture. The pathological changes vary with the tightness of the constricting ring and the duration of the strangulation. The early changes in the bowel are the result of mechanical interfer- ence with the circulation, while the later and more serious effects depend upon bacterial invasion of its coats. VOL. II—26402 HERNIA. The usual effects of venous congestion are at first well marked : the bowel becomes turgid, swollen, and firm in con- sistence ; its colour varies from a livid blue to a claret or even black colour, which last is due to extravasation of blood into the coats of the bowel. The strangulated loop becomes dis- tended with gas. There is an exudation of serum into the sac. The peritoneum of the sac and of its contents for a time retains its shining lustre. If an opening is made into the bowel the contents are found to be stained with blood as a result of haemorrhage from the congested mucous membrane. If the loop of bowel engaged in the sac is liberated from the constriction, it is usually found to present, at one or at both ends, a deep groove, known as the constriction groove, the bowel appearing as if a string had been tightly tied round it. The groove or furrow is pale, with scattered points of haemorrhage, and the mucous aspect may show superficial ulceration. The damage to the bowel may be completely recovered from, or the formation of scar tissue in the position of the groove may sub- sequently result in an annular stricture or stenosis of the bowel. The further changes are due to bacterial infection of the coats of. the bowel, and they partake of the characters of inflammation or of gangrene, or of a combination of these. The organisms concerned — colon bacilli and less frequently staphylococci, streptococci or pneumococci— are derived from the lumen of the bowel. When inflammation predominates, the usual phenomena of peritonitis are present: the serous surfaces of the bowel and sac become opaque and covered with fibrinous lymph, and the fluid in the sac becomes turbid from admixture with flakes of lymph. When gangrene ensues, the bowel loses its natural lustre and firm consistence; it becomes flaccid and sodden like wet blotting-paper, and its colour changes to an ashen-grey, yellow, or green. The fluid in the sac becomes dark in colour and acquires a putrefactive, sometimes almost cadaveric odour, the result of bacterial decomposition. Gangrene may involve the entire loop engaged in the sac, or only its convexity, or it may be confined to the situation of the constriction grooves. It is of great importance, therefore, in operating for strangulated hernia, after dividing the constriction, to pull down the bowel from the neck of the sac and examine it. In exceptional cases the sac also may be gangrenous. In the rare instances in which two or more loops of bowel are strangulated in the same sac, the gangrene may involve the protruded bowel only, or the connecting loop within the abdomen may be similarly affected ; the internal connecting loop may,STRANGULATED HERNIA. 403 however, become gangrenous without gangrene of the protruded coils. The changes in the bowel above and below the hernia closely resemble those that take place in other forms of intestinal ob- struction. The bowel below the hernia is usually contracted and empty. The bowel above becomes distended with gas and fluid, minute haemorrhages occur in its walls, and the superficial layers of the mucous membrane are shed, giving rise to shallow ulcers. Bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel results in the formation of toxins, which are readily absorbed through the devitalised mucous membrane, and give rise to general intoxication which may prove fatal. If the omentum alone is strangulated, it merely exhibits the effects of venous congestion and of haemorrhages into its substance, but if intestine is present in addition, the omentum participates in the septic process set up by the bacterial in- fection from the bowel. Natural Terminations.—In the majority of cases of untreated strangulated hernia the condition proves fatal from septic absorption. In a limited number the gangrenous bowel gives way, and the sac and its contents are converted into a foul- smelling, faecal abscess containing gas; the coverings slough as the abscess points and ruptures, and if the patient survives, a faecal fistula is formed. Clinical Features.—The symptoms of strangulated hernia are essentially those of intestinal obstruction. They vary according to the tightness of the strangulation, the part involved—whether bowel or omentum—and the nervous constitution of the patient. There is often a history of a previous threatening of strangula- tion which has been tided over. On the occurrence of strangu- lation the patient is often aware of a change in the hernia; he may, for example, after a sudden effort, be conscious of the descent of an addition to the hernial contents, and observe a decided increase in the size of the hernia. There is an immediate difficulty in effecting reduction, the hernia becomes tense, hard and painful, and the expansile impulse on coughing is diminished or lost. Simultaneously with these changes there is complaint of pain in the abdomen, usually referred to the region of the umbilicus ; in some cases pain is the first symptom. The pain is very acute, with exacerbations of a colicky nature, causing the patient to stoop forward or compelling him to lie down. It is attended with sweating, with a feeling of coldness and collapse, and is nearly always followed by nausea and vomiting. The cessation of pain is usually an indication that gangrene of theHERNIA. 404 protruded bowel has occurred. Shock is most pronounced in the small recent hernise of young adults ; sometimes it is entirely absent. The general condition of the patient does not neces- sarily correspond with the gravity of the changes in the hernial contents, and may be so little disturbed that he is able to sit up or even to walk although the bowel is already gangrenous. Vomiting is one of the most constant symptoms. At first the vomited matter is merely undigested food, later it con- sists of the contents of the upper part of the small intestine, bile being a prominent constituent, and, finally, of the decom- posing and foetid contents of the bowel above the loop engaged in the hernia. This dark brown or black, foul-smelling fluid is usually described as “ faecal ” or “ stercoraceous,” but the presence of recognisable faecal matter is rarely, if ever, observed. The higher up the segment of intestine involved the more severe is the vomiting; when the colon is strangulated vomiting is not so early or so marked a feature. As in other forms of intestinal obstruction, it is characteristic that the vomited matter is ejected without retching or appreciable effort. As a rule nothing is passed by the rectum, although an enema may bring away faecal matter from below the seat of obstruction. In a Richter’s hernia, and in a hernia in which omentum only is in the sac, there may be one or more movements of the bowels. Unless the loop of bowel concerned is high up in the jejunum, the abdomen tends to become distended and rigid, and it may be tender on pressure. Peristaltic movements of individual coils of bowel are, as a rule, only observed when the strangulation is not very tight and has lasted for several days. The temperature is usually sub-normal, the pulse small and rapid, the face pale and drawn, and the expression anxious. There is great complaint of thirst, and the tongue is dry and brown. The urine, which usually contains albumen, is small in quantity and dark in colour. If the condition is not relieved, the patient sinks with symptoms of progressive toxaemia. Strangulation of the omentum alone gives rise to the same kind of symptoms as strangulation of the intestine, but they are less severe, and there is not the same risk to life. Diagnosis.—When a patient presents the symptoms of intestinal obstruction above described, a careful examination of all the hernial regions is the first step in arriving at a diagnosis of the cause. The patient himself may be ignorant of the fact that he suffers from hernia, and in stout people a small hernia is liable to be overlooked even when sought for. An irreducible405 HERNIOTOMY. hernia may be present and yet the symptoms may be due to obstruction of the bowels from some other cause. If there is any possibility that the hernia is the cause of the symptoms, it is wiser to subject it to operation in the first instance. Treatment. — The strangulation must be relieved and the contents of the hernia returned within the belly with the least possible delay, and this is best done by operation. If the patient is seen very soon after the onset of strangulation and the symptoms are not urgent, this may be postponed for an hour or two; the foot of the bed is elevated ten or twelve inches, and a rubber bag filled with hot water is applied over the hernia. While awaiting the result of these measures, the pre- parations for operation are proceeded with. Operative Treatment.—Herniotomy.—Once a diagnosis of strangulation has been made, no time should be lost in having recourse to operation. The operation is not in itself a serious one; the danger to the patient consists in its being delayed. In aged and weakly patients, and in those who are the subjects of diabetes or consumption, it may be advisable to employ local anaesthesia, but as a rule a general anmsthetic is to be preferred. When there is vomiting of foul fluid, the stomach should be washed out before beginning the operation. An incision is made which will give the necessary access to the sac of the hernia and the seat of strangulation at its neck. The coverings, which are sometimes oedematous, are divided without any attempt to differentiate them anatomically, and the sac is exposed. It is not always easy to recognise the sac, so that the operator must proceed with caution, picking up any layer which he believes to be the sac with caution, so as to avoid cutting into the contents of the hernia. The inner surface of the sac is smooth and shining, and when such a surface is exposed and fluid escapes it is more than probable that the sac has been opened. If the fluid is turbid and foul- smelling, it will probably be found that the vitality of the bowel has been seriously impaired, and it is wise at this stage to irrigate the sac and its contents with hot saline solution to minimise the risks of infection. The next step consists in dividing the constricting agent, which is usually found at or about the neck of the sac ; the actual constriction is brought about either by tightness of the neck itself or of one or more of the layers of the abdominal wall immediately surrounding it. The constriction may be divided by a probe-pointed hernia-knife, guided to the neck of the sac by the finger or a broad hernia-director, or it is effected by open dissection, dividing layer after layer until theHERNIA. 406 constriction is relieved. The latter method is to be preferred in those hernial regions to which it is applicable, not only because the tissues to be divided are seen before they are cut, but also because it will often be possible to preserve the integrity of the neck of the sac, and this is of advantage in carrying out the radical cure. The constriction having been divided, the affected loop of bowel is drawn down and the region of the constriction grooves examined to see if the bowel is viable at these points. After the bowel has been freed and washed with hot water its condition often improves. It is certainly viable if a wave of peristalsis passes the constriction groove when the bowel is flicked with the finger. If the changes present result only from venous con- gestion, the bowel should be emptied of its contents by gentle compression and returned within the abdomen. If it is covered with a lymphy exudate and is otherwise viable, it should be irrigated with hot water and returned within the abdomen. If, however, there are alterations in the lustre, colour and consistence of the bowel which indicate incipient or actual gangrene, the damaged bowel must be resected. In rare cases the' gangrenous area may be small enough to permit of its being invaginated by Lembert’s sutures without unduly narrowing the lumen (F. M. Caird). As a rule, the gangrene is too extensive to permit of this, and the entire loop must be resected together with its mesentery. The resection should extend well beyond the apparent limits of the devitalised bowel in order to obtain perfectly healthy intestine for union by end-to-end suture. It is only when the condition of the patient is so critical as not to permit of this being carried out that the damaged bowel is left in situ ; it should then be freely incised to allow of the escape of the intestinal contents and the formation of a faecal fistula. The omentum, if healthy, is returned within the abdomen; if damaged or infected, it is removed, the divided vessels being ligatured. The operation is completed by performing the radical cure, which consists in obliterating the neck of the sac and closing the hernial canal. The details vary with the individual hernia;. After-Treatment.—If the patient continues to vomit foul- smelling fluid, this should be regarded as an indication for washing out the stomach. An enema should be given the following morning, and castor oil or a Seidlitz powder on the second day. Blood is sometimes observed in the stools after herniotomy for strangulation, but is not a cause for anxiety. The foot of the bed should be elevated, and the patient kept407 TAXIS. recumbent for a period which varies according to the progress of the wound and whether or not a satisfactory radical cure has been performed. Taxis.—If an operation is refused or is contra-indicated, recourse may be had to taxis—that is, the reduction of the hernia by external manipulation. The foot of the bed having been raised, the patient is placed in such an attitude as will relax the parts in the region of the hernial opening. The neck of the hernia is then steadied with one hand, while with the other the hernia is gently compressed in such a way as to cause the contents to pass back into the cavity of the abdomen. No force is to be employed, and the manipulations should not be persevered with unless they result in a gradual diminution in the size of the hernia, and there is evidence that the contents are entering the abdomen. The disappearance of the hernial contents should be complete, and should be tested for by passing the finger into the hernial canal. A pad and spica bandage are applied over the hernial canal, and the patient should be kept in bed until the further treat- ment, by truss or operation, has been decided upon. Dangers from Taxis.—The bowel may sustain further damage, favouring the occurrence of gangrene, or it may be actually ruptured. The most frequent accident, however, is that known as apparent or false reduction, of which there are three principal forms:—(1) Rupture of the sac in the region of its neck, and escape of the contents into the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue; when this occurs, the surgeon recognises that the reduction is obviously incomplete. (2) Reduction into another sac. This is most likely to occur where there are two sacs with a common neck at which the bowel is strangulated. The bowel is forced by the taxis from one sac into the other, the strangulation at the neck of the sac being still unrelieved. This accident is met with chiefly in interstitial hernia. (3) Reduction en bloc or en masse (Fig, 98). This is usually the result of long-continued Fig. 98.—Diagram of Reduction of Hernia en bloc.408 HERNIA. and ill-regulated taxis, the whole sac being forced within the abdominal wall, although still outside the peritoneum, the rela- tions of sac and contents to one another being unaltered, the strangulation at the neck persists. In all of these forms of false reduction the symptoms of strangulation continue, and a fulness and sense of resistance may still be felt in the region in which the displacement has occurred. The manipulator, moreover, is usually conscious that although he has changed the position of the hernia he has not relieved the obstruction. When this accident occurs, an operation should immediately be performed for the relief of the strangu- lated bowel. Sequelae of Strangulation: Stenosis and Stricture of the Intestine.—The symptoms of obstruction may continue after the strangulation has been relieved, from the loop of bowel which has been returned failing to transmit its contents. This may be due to paralysis of its muscular coats, to the occurrence of gangrene, to the persistence of the constriction grooves, or to kinking of the bowel by adhesions. A combination of these conditions may be present. If the obstruction symptoms do not yield to washing out the stomach and irrigation of the lower boivel, the abdomen must be opened in the vicinity of the hernial region concerned, and the damaged loop drawn out of the wound. If the patient’s general condition is favourable, immediate re- section and end-to-end suture should be performed; if not, the damaged bowel is secured outside the wound, an opening is made into it above the obstruction and a Paul’s tube inserted, thus establishing an artificial anus, which can be dealt with at a later period. Recurrence of symptoms of intestinal obstruction coming on towards the second or third week after the operation, the patient meanwhile having progressed favourably, is usually due to the development of a fibrous stricture in one, rarely in both, of the constriction grooves. The clinical features are those of chronic, incomplete obstruction, with occasional vomiting of large quantities of fluid, colicky pains and gurgling noises in the abdomen. Distended coils of intestine may be visible, and may show active peristalsis, which is readily induced by manipulation of the abdomen. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen in the vicinity of the herniotomy wound and drawing out the affected loop of intestine. The stenosed segment may be resected there and then, or an artificial anus may be established as a temporary measure.INGUINAL HERNIA. 409 The Varieties of Hernia—Inguinal Hernia. This is by far the commonest variety of hernia, and includes all forms that traverse the inguinal canal. If the hernia leaves the abdomen through the internal abdominal ring to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and traverses the entire length of the inguinal canal, it is called an oblique, or, from its relation to the deep epigastric, an external inguinal hernia. If it escapes in the interval between the deep epigastric artery and the outer border of the rectus muscle—Hesselbach’s triangle—that is, to the inner side of the deep epigastric, it is called a direct or internal inguinal hernia. If the protrusion descends into the scrotum or labium it is called a scrotal or a labial hernia; if it stops short of either of these it is spoken of as a bubonocele. Surgical Anatomy.—The inguinal canal extends from the internal abdominal ring, which lies half an inch above a point a little internal to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, to the external ring, situated immediately above the crest of the pubes. In the adult it is about an inch and a half long, and is directed inwards, with a slight inclination downwards and forwards. The anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, strengthened in the outer third by the fibres of the internal oblique that take origin from Poupart’s ligament. The posterior wall is formed by the transversalis fascia, together with the conjoined tendon at its inner part, and a distinct layer of tendinous fibres derived from the transversalis muscle at its outer part. The conjoined tendon is often thin and weak, arid blends internally with the sheath of the rectus. The floor of the canal is formed by Poupart’s ligament and its reflection on to the body of the pubes—Gimbernat’s ligament; and the roof, by the arching fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. In the male the canal transmits the spermatic cord, and in the female, the round ligament. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, from without inwards, are : the integument, the intercolumnar fascia derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the cremasteric fascia and cremaster muscle continuous with the internal oblique, the infundibuliform fascia representing the fascia transversalis, the extra-peritoneal tissue, and the peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. Oblique Inguinal Hernia. — In the acquired, form in the male the sac is derived from the parietal peritoneum, which isHERNIA. 410 stretched and protruded as a pouch through the internal abdominal ring, and gradually forces its way along the canal till it reaches the external ring through which it passes towards the scrotum. In the earliest stages a mere bulging at the internal ring may be observed during expulsive efforts. Once it enters the scrotum, the hernia increases more rapidly and becomes pyriform in shape, the neck or narrow portion of the swelling lying in the inguinal canal. In its further progress in the scrotum, the hernia lies above or in front of the testis with the structures of the cord behind it. In old herniae the internal and external abdominal rings become approximated until they lie di- rectly behind one another, and the neck of the sac and the canal which it occupies become pro- gressively shorter. This is best appreciated clinically by reducing the hernia and invaginating the scrotum by passing the finger along the cord until it is engaged in the external ring. In hernise of long standing the canal may be so dilated that the finger tra- verses the whole length of it, and may even enter the abdomen through the internal ring. In fully one-third of the cases of acquired hernia, a similar pro- trusion develops sooner or later upon the other side. Diagnosis.—While the hernia is still iii the stage of bubonocele, it is to be differentiated from an undescended testis, an encysted hydrocele of the cord, enlarged lymphatic glands, the softer forms of connective-tissue tumours, and a chronic abscess. When the hernia has emerged from the external ring, it is liable to be mistaken for a femoral hernia. When it has descended into the scrotum, it is to be diagnosed from varicocele, hydrocele, luematocele, and pathological enlarge- ments of the testicle. In the female, an acquired inguinal hernia escapes from the external abdominal ring, and if it enters the labium it has the same relations to the round ligament of the uterus as it has to the spermatic cord in the male. Labial hernia is to be Fig. 99.—Double Oblique Inguinal Hernia.411 INGUINAL HERNIA. - Testis differentiated from hydrocele of the canal of Nnck, labial cyst, abscess, and various forms of tumour. Inguinal Hernia depending upon Congenital Anomalies in the Processus Vaginalis — Congenital Hernia. — As the testis descends into the scrotum in the course of normal development, it is ac- companied by a diverticulum of peritoneum called the processus vaginalis, the lowest portion of which becomes the tunica vaginalis, while the upper portion becomes obliterated at or before birth. Should the processus vaginalis remain patent throughout, it forms a ready-made hernial sac into which the abdominal contents may descend, and in the sac the contents Fig. 100.—Diagram of Congenital of the hernia are in contact with the Hernia, testis and entirely surround it. This is known as a congenital hernia (Fig. 100), is more common on the right side, because the right testis descends later than the left, and it frequently appears quite suddenly, the condition of the sac allowing the contents to pass at once into the scrotum. In young adults it not infre- quently becomes strangulated at its first emergence, and when strangulated is more difficult to reduce than the acquired variety. Constrictions, the re- sult of attempted closure at certain points, may give rise to an hour-glass sac. The con- stituents of the cord are found on the posterior aspect of the patent processus, and are more Fig. 101.—Diagram of Hernia into the closely attached to it than Funicular Process. they are to the sac of an ac- quired hernia. It is rarely possible by external examination to differentiate between an acquired and a congenital scrotal hernia. Hernia into the Funicular Process. — This is probably the most common of all forms of inguinal hernia. When the412 HERNIA. Bowel Parietal Hernial sac Testis Fig. 102.—Diagram of Infantile Hernia. processus vaginalis has become shut off at the upper end of the testicle but remains open above, a loop of bowel may descend into the unobliterated portion, constituting a hernia into the funicular process (Fig. 101). It differs from the complete congenital form above described in the follow- ing respects : the testis is below the fundus of the sac, quite separate and distinct from it; the hernia is seldom so large, and is cylindrical rather than globular in shape, and usually appears at a later period of life. Infantile Hernia (Fig. 102).— This rare variety of hernia is not well named; it does not present any distinctive clinical features, and is not identified until exposed by opera- tion. The term “ infantile ” has no reference to the age at which the hernial tumour appears, for the majority of cases have been met with in adults. A second peritoneal process is pulled down into the scrotum by an aberrant attachment of the gubernaculum testis ; the new sac descends behind the processus and bulges into it, so that on cutting down to the protruded gut from the front three layers of peri- toneum are met with, the first two belonging to the processus vaginalis, and the third representing the newly formed hernial sac. Closely allied to infantile hernia is that known as en- cysted hernia (Fig. 103), in which a newly formed sac descends into and invaginates the processus vaginalis, which is obliterated only at the in- ternal abdominal ring, and which entirely envelops the hernia instead of lying in front of it as in the infantile variety. It may be associated with retention of the testis in the inguinal canal. Hernia with Retention of the Testis.—This association is not Fig. 103.- _ Unobliterated processus vaginalis ~ Hernial sac -Testis -Diagram of Encysted Hernia.413 INGUINAL HERNIA. uncommon, especially in children. The testis may be retained within the abdomen, or, as is more usual, may occupy some part of the inguinal canal. The testis is imperfectly developed, and may be exceedingly sensitive. In the majority of cases the hernia comes down before the testicle (Fig. 104); next in frequency the hernia and testis descend simultaneously; exceptionally the testis descends first, and is followed after a variable interval by the hernia. In the treatment of this condition, an attempt may be made by means of a truss provided with a horseshoe-shaped pad to retain the hernia while allow- ing the testicle to descend, but this is seldom practicable. Operative treatment is more satisfactory; the testis and cord are freed from their coverings, and the former is brought down to and fixed in the scrotum. The process of peritoneum is the internal ring, and the walls -Bowel -Sac Fig. 104.—Hernia with imper- fectly descended Testis. then divided and closed at of the inguinal canal brought together. Congenital Hernia in the Female.—A process of peri- toneum—the canal of Nuck —accompanies the round liga- ment in the foetus, and is usually obliterated at birth. If it remains patent and a hernia descends into it, this is known as a hernia into the canal of Nuck. The sac not infrequently contains the ovary and Fallopian tube. The canal may remain patent, however, without a hernia developing. Direct Inguinal Hernia. —This variety of hernia is always acquired. It leaves the abdomen at the semilunar line between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle (Hesselbach’s triangle) and enters at the lower part of the inguinal canal, splitting or carrying in front of it the con- Fig. 105.—Single Spiral Truss for Riglit Oblique Inguinal Hernia.414 HERNIA. joined tendon, and emerging at the external abdominal ring. The hernia therefore passes directly through the abdominal wall, and there is consequently no obliquity of the neck. The sper- matic cord usually lies at the outer side of the sac. It is met with chiefly in adult males between the ages of forty and fifty. The hernia is slightly more common on the right than on the left side; it may be bilateral. It is usually small, forming a bubonocele, and rarely reaches the scrotum. When the hernia is being reduced it appears to pass directly backwards, and relatively to the protrusion the abdominal opening is large, and appears as a simple gap in the belly-wall. It is less liable to strangulation than the oblique hernia, and when strangulated the bowel is less frequently seriously damaged. Treatment of Inguinal Hernia in the Adult.—Pallia- tive treatment consists in the wearing of a mechanical appli- ance known as a truss. A truss is a belt containing a stout spring which encircles the body, and is fitted with a pad, by means of which'.the force of the spring is applied over the open- ing through which the hernia leaves the abdominal cavity. The pad is made of cork covered with chamois leather or other soft material. In measuring for a truss the tape crosses the base of the sacrum, comes forwards between the iliac crest and the upper border of the great trochanter, and reaches the middle line just above the symphysis pubis. The number of inches recorded will express the size of the truss. A truss should fulfil two essential conditions — it should retain the hernia completely under all circumstances, and it should be perfectly comfortable. A good truss should be light and yet strong, should fit the body accurately, and the pad should maintain its position in all movements of the wearer. If the spring presses too lightly, the truss fails to retain the hernia; if, on the other hand, it presses too heavily, it causes discomfort, and tends to bring about atrophy of the abdominal wall, and even to enlarge the existing opening. In every case the truss should be applied and tested by the surgeon. It is put on Fig. 106.—Double Spiral Truss for Inguinal Hernia.INGUINAL HERNIA. 415 while the patient is recumbent, and the pad should cover the internal ring and inguinal canal, and should exert pressure in an upward and backward direction. It must not rest on the pubic bone, as it is liable to chafe and may fail to control the hernia. The truss should be constantly worn when the patient is in the erect position, but may be discarded when he is recumbent, unless there is some condition, such as cough or frequent straining at micturition, which necessitates its being worn at night. A vulcanite or other waterproof truss may be worn while bathing. Whether a single or double truss should be worn for a unilateral hernia is largely a matter of personal opinion. Some object to the wearing of a pad on the side on which there is no hernia because the pressure is believed to weaken the abdominal wall. If, however, the pad is large enough to distribute the pressure, and does not dimple the wall at any one point, no such weakening results. A double truss sits more comfortably, and can often be worn without under-straps. A single truss with an uncler-strap is that most commonly employed in congenital hernia. The soft part of the pad may be prolonged downwards into a tail or under-strap—the “ rat-tailed truss ” ; this truss may be employed also in cases of direct hernia. Operative Treatment.—When the hernia cannot be efficiently controlled by a truss, when it is irreducible, and when there has been a threatened or actual strangulation, this is the most satisfactory method of treatment. In congenital cases, and in cases complicated by imperfect descent of the testis, also, opera- tion is indicated. Operation is also performed in young men who intend entering one of the public services, or who are going abroad where they may be out of reach of surgical assistance ; and in cases in which, from the nature of the patient’s occupation and habits, the use of a truss is liable to be interfered with. It may be added that, in many cases, the choice between the wearing of a truss and operation may be left to the patient. Cases unsuited for operation include those in which the hernia is of such enormous size that the abdomen is unlikely to be able to accommodate the protruded viscera, and those in which the abdominal walls are flaccid and bulging, and in which the conditions that have led to the acquisition of the hernia are likely to con- tinue, for example, persistent coughing, or straining on micturition. In the radical cure of inguinal hernia, the integuments are divided by an incision placed in the long axis of the inguinal canal. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is split to give access to the upper part of the sac. The neck of the sac is isolated from its surroundings—including the spermatic cord-—416 HERNIA. as high as the internal abdominal ring, and is then obliterated in such a way that no depression or pouch which would favour the re-formation of a hernial sac remains in the parietal peritoneum. This may be done by ligaturing and cutting across the neck of the sac flush with the level of the parietal peritoneum (Mitchell Banks); or the sac may be invaginated and its neck displaced upwards and outwards by drawing it through an opening in the internal oblique and transversalis muscles at a point three-quarters of an inch above and to the outer side of the internal abdominal ring (Kocher). The next step consists in approximating the walls of the inguinal canal, by stitching the arched lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles to the deep aspect of Poupart’s ligament. The divided edges of the aponeurosis of the external oblique are then overlapped and stitched so that the lower and outer portion overlaps the upper and inner. The spermatic cord may be made to lie in front of the line of sutures joining the internal oblique and Poupart’s Ligament (Bassini); or between the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the skin (Halsted). In order to diminish the size of the cord, its veins may be resected after the manner adopted in operating for varicocele (Halsted). It may be pointed out that the operation should be adapted to the anatomical conditions present in each individual case. In congenital hernia, the obliteration of the sac is the most important element in cure, while in acquired hernia, special attention must be given to the reconstitution of the inguinal canal. The patient should avoid any muscular exertion for at least two months after the operation, and some surgeons hold that a light truss should be worn for twelve months. In operating for strangulated inguinal hernia, the line of incision through the integument and the aponeurosis of the external oblique is the same as is described above. This incision is deepened layer by layer over the upper part and neck of the sac until all its coverings are divided, after which it is usually found that on opening the sac it is possible to draw down the bowel so as to inspect its condition at the site of the constriction grooves. If the bowel is viable it is gently compressed and returned. When two or more loops of intestine are present in the sac, the most posterior loop should be replaced first. If the bowel does not appear to be likely to live, it must be dealt with on the lines already laid down (p. 406). If the neck of the sac is so tight as to be the chief agent in causing the strangulation, it also must be divided so as to relieve the constriction and permit of the reduction of the contents. The operation is then completedINTERSTITIAL HERNIA. 417 by performing the radical cure. The foot of the bed should be elevated and the patient kept recumbent for three or four weeks. Interstitial Hernia.—This form of hernia receives its name from the fact that the sac of the hernia forms in the interstices of the abdominal parietes. The hernial sac is made up of two or more compartments, which open into the abdomen by a common mouth. The outer or lower compartment occupies the upper part of the inguinal canal, and rarely descends into the scrotum; the upper and inner extends between the layers of the abdominal wall in one of three situations:— (1) Between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis, constituting what is known as a pro-peritoneal or intra-parietal hernia; (2) between the internal and external oblique muscles, the inter-parietal variety—the most common of the three ; and (3), between the external oblique muscle and the skin—the extra-parietal variety. The pro-peritoneal loculus of the sac may pass upwards and outwards towards the anterior superior spine, or directly backwards so that it occupies the inner part of the iliac fossa; or it may pass downwards and inwards into the true pelvis, and lie by the side of the bladder. This form of hernia, although rare, is of special clinical importance, because from the absence of an external swelling the diagnosis is rarely made until strangulation occurs and the hernia is exposed by operation. In the second and third varieties the interstitial sac is capable of being recognised, as it is visibly distended with the usual hernial contents. Strangulation is infrequent. In males, the development of the interstitial sac probably depends upon imperfect descent of the testis, which bars the way to the extension of the hernia downwards towards the scrotum, and causes the sac to spread in the direction of least resistance. In both sexes it is more common on the right side. As these hernias cannot be controlled by a truss, they should be treated by operation. Inguinal Hernia in Children.—Inguinal hernia is very com- mon in children of both sexes. The commonest form met with in boys is that in which the funicular process, although shut off from the tunica vaginalis, remains patent, closely resembling an acquired sac. It is more frequently met with on the right side, because of the later closure of the funicular process on that side. While the predisposing cause is the incomplete closure of the processus, various exciting causes may be present, such as diarrhoea and gaseous distension of the bowels, excessive crying or vomiting, whooping-cough, or rectal irritation by worms. Hence the importance of medical treatment, especially in infants. VOL. II—27HERNIA. 418 When there is straining on micturition from phimosis, circum- cision should be performed. If these exciting factors are got rid of, there is a strong tendency for the slighter forms of hernia to be recovered from. Irreducibility and strangulation are unusual. Hernia of the caecum is comparatively common in right scrotal hernia, and is characterised by its large size, the width of the neck, and the difficulty of retaining it with a truss. In some cases the vermiform appendix may be palpated through the tissues of the scrotum. These large scrotal hernia; are more liable to become irreducible and even strangulated. In examining male children for hernia it is important to make out whether or not the testes have descended into the scrotum, and to avoid mistaking the various forms of congenital hydrocele for hernia. It is not uncommon, however, to have a combination of hernia with encysted hydrocele of the cord. In female children the sac not infrequently contains the ovary and Fallopian tube. Treatment.—When the child is under six months old, the mother or nurse is shown how to reduce the hernia, and is directed to do so whenever it is noticed to be down. In children over six months, the hernia must either be controlled by a truss covered with india-rubber, or cured by opera- tion. The difficulty and discomfort which attend the use of a truss, and the uncertainty of cure by means of it, render it advis- able in the majority of children to have recourse to operation. The essential step in the operation is the isolation and removal of the patent funicular process, its neck being ligatured at the level of the internal ring. If the sac extends into the scrotum, as it does in the majority of cases, it should be cut across below the level of the external ring, care being taken not to injure the vas deferens or its vessels. One or more sutures may be passed through the pillars of the external ring, leaving only Fig. 107.—Double Congenital In- guinal Hernia in boy, set. 1 year. (First noticed on right side when two weeks old. Left hernia noticed four weeks later. Could not be controlled by truss. Treated by radical operation.)FEMORAL HERNIA. 419 sufficient room for the passage of the cord. Instead of the usual dressings, which are apt to be soiled with urine, a paste of bismuth may be applied over the skin around the wound. Tuberculosis of the hernial sac is not uncommonly met with in association with tuberculous ascites in children; the peritoneum lining the sac is thickened and studded with tubercles like sago grains. This thickening of the sac may be recognised on manipulation, and in many cases examination of the abdomen will reveal the existence of tuberculous nodules and of enlarged mesenteric glands. Strangulation in children is usually a more gradual and less severe process than in adults, and there is little risk of the rapid occurrence of gangrene. The prominent symptoms are griping pains, with crying, vomiting, and arrest of urinary secretion. If seen at an early stage, the child should be placed in a warm bath, and this should be followed by the application of hot fomentations over the hernia. If these means fail to bring about • reduction, the child should be put under chloroform with a view to operation. The constriction is usually situated at the apex of the external abdominal ring, and is therefore divided in splitting the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is a remarkable fact that in children herniotomy for strangulation is most frequently called for during the early months of infancy, the greatest number of operations having been performed during the first three months. Femoral Hernia. A femoral or crural hernia escapes from the abdomen at the crural ring, passes down the crural canal, and emerges in the thigh through the saphenous opening. Next to inguinal it is the commonest form of hernia. It is oftenest met with in the female, probably because the pelvis is wider, the crural ring larger, and Gimbernat’s ligament less strongly developed in women than in men, and it is most common in women who have borne children. It is probable that in some cases a rapid loss of fat may tend to the production of a femoral protrusion, owing to the removal of tissue which helps to support the abdominal aspect of the crural ring. Femoral hernia is almost invariably acquired, and is rarely met with under the age of twenty, because there is practically no crural ring or canal until the pelvis is fully developed. Surgical Anatomy.—The crural ring or upper end of the crural canal is represented on the abdominal aspect by a slight420 HERNIA. depression, and it is closed by a condensed poi’tion of the extra- peritoneal tissue containing a lymphatic gland, and known as the septum crurale. The ring is bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament and the deep crural arch; behind by the pubic bone covered by the pectineus muscle and fascia; to the outer side by the partition of the crural sheath which separates the ring from the common femoral vein; and to the inner side by Gimbernat’s ligament. The deep epigastric artery, in its course inwards from the external iliac, passes close to the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and gives off its pubic branch, which runs transversely inwards to Gimbernat’s ligament to anastomose with the pubic branch of the obturator. An enlargement of this anas- tomosis constitutes an “aber- rant obturator,” the obtur- ator arising by a common trunk with the epigastric. When it curves round the inner side of the ring along the free margin of Gimber- nat’s ligament, it is liable to be wounded in the operation of herniotomy. The crural canal is about half an inch in length. In front of it the upper margin of the saphenous opening—Hey’s ligament—arches inwards to join Poupart’s and Gimber- nat’s ligaments. The upper- part of the pectineal fascia is strengthened by a tough baud of fibrous tissue, known as Cooper’s ligament. A hernia passing along the canal at first descends vertically, but on reaching the saphenous opening it bulges forwards, and enlarges in a direction upwards and outwards till it may pass over Poupart’s ligament. The coverings of a femoral hernia are : the integument, including the cribriform fascia, the femoral sheath representing the transversalis fascia, the extra-peritoneal tissue and septum crurale, and the peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. In small hernise, the sac may be so loosely attached that it is sometimes reduced with the contents. In very large herniae, the sac may present several diverticula and extend down the thigh.421 FEMORAL HERNIA. A femoral hernia forms gradually, and usually painlessly, and, in stout women, it may pass unnoticed by the patient for years. The hernia is often as small as a cherry or a pigeon’s egg, and may contain only a small tag of omentum which is irreducible, or only a portion of the circumference of the bowel—Richter’s hernia (Fig. 96). Large herniae containing several coils of small intestine are, however, sometimes met with. Diagnosis.—In fat women it is often difficult to distinguish between femoral and inguinal hernia. The neck of an inguinal hernia lies above and internal to the spine of the pubes; that of a femoral hernia below and external to the spine. If the hernia is reducible, it may be noticed that in the one case it disappears through the inguinal canal, and in the other through the crural canal. In irreducible hernia an attempt should be made to introduce the finger into each of the hernial canals—■ the one will be found empty, the other occupied. Varicose pouching of the upper end of the saphena vein may simu- late hernia ; both swellings may be made to disappear on pres- sure, but in varix the swelling reappears in spite of pressure on the crural canal, and it is associated with varix in other parts of the limb. When enlarged inguinal glands are matted together and prolonged into the crural caual, as in tuberculosis, it may be difficult to differentiate them from an irreducible femoral hernia. Among other conditions which may simulate a femoral hernia may be mentioned psoas abscess, enlargement of the bursa underneath the ilio-psoas, a fatty tumour, which may be a down- growth from the hypertrophied extra-peritoneal fat, and consoli- dated aneurysm of the common femoral artery. Treatment of Femoral Hernia.—As in inguinal hernia, the choice lies between the control of the hernia by a truss and the operation for radical cure. The method of measuring for a truss is the same as in inguinal Fig. 109.—Opposite-sided Truss applied for Femoral Hernia.422 HERNIA. hernia, and for unilateral hernia a single truss is sufficient. The pad is elongated from above downwards so as to cover the femoral canal, and it should press directly backwards. The metal spring may encircle the pelvis on the same side as the hernia or on the opposite side; in the latter case the appliance is known as an “opposite-sided truss” (Fig. 109). When there is difficulty in controlling the hernia, the pressure of the pad may be rendered more efficient by incorporating it in a Belt which encircles the upper part of the thigh. Any form of truss for femoral hernia is irksome and interferes to a certain extent with the freedom of movement of the limb, and this is often an additional argument for having recourse to operation. Operative treatment should be recommended to all patients who are fit subjects for operation, and it becomes imperative in the majority of cases in which the hernia is irreducible or cannot be controlled by a truss. Operation for Radical Cure.—It may be pointed out that the femoral canal is more difficult to close than the inguinal because of the unyielding bone posteriorly, and of the close proximity of the femoral vein. The incision may be made parallel with Poupart’s ligament or in the long axis of the femoral canal. The coverings are divided so as to expose the sac, and this should be cleared from its surroundings right up to where its neck dis- appears under Poupart’s ligament. A small opening is then made through the three layers of muscle above Poupart’s liga- ment, and the sac brought out through this and its neck fixed by sutures (Kocher). To occlude the canal, an incision is made upwards and outwards from the middle of the external ring through the aponeurosis of the external oblique for about an inch and a half, and the inner of the flaps thus formed is made to slide behind the outer, and is stitched to Gimbernat’s liga- ment, the pectineal fascia, and Poupart’s ligament, so that it forms a “ shutter ” over the crural ring. The outer flap is then stitched to the aponeurosis of the external oblique (W. H. Battle). Another method is to tack Poupart’s ligament down to the bone by means of a metal staple (Roux). In strangulated femoral hernia the danger of delaying operation is greater than in inguinal hernia, because of the risk of the bowel being damaged by the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament. Gangrene may take place rapidly, and is often localised to the constriction ring at the neck of the sac, opposite the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament. Strangulated hernia is often overlooked because of the small size of the protrusion, and the fact that its existence is unknown423 UMBILICAL HERNIA. to the patient, hence the necessity of carefully examining the femoral canals in all cases presenting symptoms of acute in- testinal obstruction. In performing herniotomy, after the sac has been exposed and isolated, a broad, flat hernia director is passed along the canal between the neck of the sac and Gimbernat’s ligament, and with a hernia knife inserted along the groove of the director, two or more shallow nicks are made in the ligament, so that in the event of an aberrant obturator artery being present, this will escape injury. The hernia is then reduced and the radical cure performed. Umbilical Hernia. Three varieties of umbilical hernia are described: (1) con- genital hernia of the umbilical cord, (2) umbilical hernia of infants, and (3) umbilical hernia of adults. Congenital hernia of the umbilical cord is due to a defective coalescence of the lateral halves of the abdominal wall, and has been aptly compared to a spina bifida. The contents of the hernia probably were never at any time within the abdominal cavity. When the gap at the umbilicus is small, the condition is described as a hernia at the root of the cord, and it may be con- trolled by a pad and bandage. When the gap is moderate in size, the hernia is sacculated, and over it are expanded the structures of the cord, which may be so thin as to be trans- parent. As this variety, if left to itself, nearly always terminates fatally, it should be subjected to operation if the condition of the child permits. The sac is opened, the contents returned within the abdomen, and the gap in the wall closed by sutures. The extreme form in which the abdomen is open through- out its entire length—exomphalos—is merely of pathological interest. Umbilical Hernia of Infants. — This form develops subse- quently to the closure of the abdominal wall, and is due to yielding of the umbilical cicatrix. It appears some weeks or months after birth, and is equally frequent in the two sexes. It forms a small, rounded or cylindrical projection, which is easily reducible, and which almost without exception disappears before puberty. The treatment consists in reducing the hernia, and approximating or overlapping the edges of the opening by broad strips of adhesive plaster applied round the abdomen. The Umbilical hernia of adidts is met with chiefly in corpulent women over thirty-five, and especially in those who have borneHEKNIA. 424 children. The protrusion of peritoneum may occur at any part of the umbilical scar, or in its vicinity, in the latter case the hernia being, strictly speaking, of the ventral type. The opening in the abdominal wall is usually circular, and is bounded by the fused aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. The muscles are weak and flabby, and the recti widely separated. The contents usually consist of omentum, while the larger varieties contain the transverse colon, and less frequently small intestine. The omentum always lies in front, and may form a complete lining to the peritoneal sac. Sometimes there are two separate open- ings leading into a common hernial sac, which is not infrequently divided into loculi, a fact which it is important to remember, Fia. 110.—Mesial Section through Umbilical Hernia, showing sac filled with adherent omentum ; removed by operation. since intestine may be strangulated in one of these loculi and be perfectly free in another. The formation of the hernia is always associated with pro- gressive adiposity. It may be that the deposition of fat in the abdominal wall, taking place uniformly except in the umbilical cicatrix, causes stretching of this structure, so that it yields more readily to increased intra-abdominal pressure; or it may be that the fat deposited in the omentum tends to send out protrusions of its substance through weak points in the cicatrix. The hernia develops gradually, and forms a smooth, globular, painless swelling. As it increases in size it may become lobulated, from adhesions forming between the contents and the wall of the sac. The umbilical scar, stretched and bulging, is usually seen on the lower half of the swelling. Large hernia: become pendulous, and may hang down over the pubes. The expansileUMBILICAL HERNIA. 425 impulse on coughing is very decided. Over the convexity of the tumour the coverings of the sac are usually very thin, and the skin may become the seat of eczema or of ulceration. Umbilical hernige, when they have attained any considerable size, are nearly always irreducible because of adhesions between the sac and its contents, and also because of the mere bulk of the protrusion and the accumulation of fat in the herniated omentum. The patient complains of a sense of heaviness and dragging in the swelling, and there may be pain and tenderness as a result of local peritonitis. Obstruction to the passage of fgeces through the prolapsed loop of bowel (incarceration) is more often met with than in any other form of hernia; it is characterised by attacks of flatulence, vomiting and constipation, and may insidi- ously merge into a condition of strangulation. As these attacks are erroneously regarded by the patient as “ bilious attacks,” and as having nothing to do with the hernia, she may not seek medical advice regarding them. Treatment of Umbilical Hernia in the Admit.—As in other hernias, the choice lies between the use of a support which will control the umbilical opening, and an operation the object of which is to close the opening by sutures. The best support is obtained from an abdominal belt pro- vided with a large, round, flattened vulcanite shield, which will overlap the hernial opening to a considerable extent. In addition, careful attention is paid to the diet and to the bowels, with a view to avoiding constipation, and reducing the amount of adipose tissue; any cause of increased intra-abdominal pressure should also be got rid of. If the hernia becomes obstructed and there is sickness and vomiting, with constipation, the patient should be confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated, and the bowels should be thoroughly emptied by enemata. In the irreducible variety, the hernia may be supported by means of an abdominal belt, but in the majority of instances it is better to have recourse to the radical operation. It must be pointed out in this connection, however’, that patients suffering from irreducible umbilical hernia are not as a rule favourable subjects for operation ; their corpulence and excessive weight are a source of difficulty both in the operation and in the after- treatment, and in the case of very large hern he it may be difficult to find room within the abdomen for the protruded viscera. Radical Operation.—The swelling is outlined by two hori- zontal semilunar incisions, and these ai'e gradually deepened through the abdominal fat until the aponeurosis is exposed426 HERNIA. throughout the whole extent of the wound. The dissection then proceeds so as to expose the sac; this should be opened, not over its convexity where the coverings are thinnest and where adhesions are most likely to be met with, but close to the margin of the aperture in the abdominal wall. The omentum is unravelled, its adhesions divided between ligatures, and the protruded portion removed. The intestine is then reduced and retained by a large flat pad of gauze. The entire sac is cut away, thus exposing the hernial ring, and the upper edge of the aperture is brought down so as to overlap the lower edge and is fixed there by a series of strong sutures of silk or chromic gut (Mayo). The patient should be kept recumbent for at least four weeks, and thereafter should wear a tightly-applied, twelve-inch domette roller bandage, and over this an accurately-fitting abdominal belt. Strangulated Umbilical Hernia in the Adult.—This condition often supervenes insidiously as a sequel to obstruction of the protruded bowel, and the patient may pass into a very critical state before the condition is brought under the notice of the surgeon. The operative treatment is carried out on the same lines as those described above. The surgeon must be prepared to find two or even more separate compartments in the sac and must investigate the contents of all of them, otherwise a strangulated loop of bowel is liable to be overlooked. There is rarely any difficulty in returning the protruded bowel, because the hernial opening is usually large. Should the opening require to be enlarged, this is done by cutting outwards on either side. The operation is completed in the same way as has been described in the radical cure. Ventral Hernia.—Under the term ventral hernia are in- cluded all such protrusions through the anterior abdominal parietes as do not appear at the inguinal, femoral, or umbilical apertures. Several varieties are recognised. In young children divarication or separation of the recti muscles is sometimes met with above the umbilicus, so that on straining a cylindrical protrusion appears in the interval between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage. The condition dis- appears spontaneously, and is of no clinical importance. In adults, and especially in multiparous women, the separa- tion of the recti usually occurs below the umbilicus, and an elliptical swelling appears between the muscles on the least exertion. The fingers can readily be introduced between the recti, and the margins of these muscles can be distinctly felt. The condition is merely troublesome, inasmuch as a belt must427 VENTRAL HERNIA. be worn to support the abdominal wall. Where there is pain and inconvenience in spite of the belt, an operation should be performed similar to that described for umbilical hernia. Hernia in the linea alba, although it may occur below the umbilicus, is met with chiefly above this point, and is then known as an epigastric hernia. The linea alba above the umbilicus is represented by interlacing fibres which form a network, the meshes of which are disposed horizontally. In some cases this network is comparatively open, and diamond- or lozenge-shaped spaces are left between the fibrous bundles. When this is associated with the presence of a loose layer of extra-peritoneal fat, a lobule of fat may be protruded through one of the spaces of the network, and constitute what is known as a “ sub-peritoneal lipoma.” As the plug of fat is further pro- truded, it drags behind it a funnel-shaped process of peritoneum, which ultimately becomes the sac of a hernia. These hern ire are met with chiefly midway between the umbilicus and ensiform car- tilage in male adults above the age of thirty, who follow some occupation involving hard manual labour. In most cases the patient complains of colicky pains in the region of the stomach, sometimes described as “ cramp,” sickness, eructations, and sometimes diarrhoea. Strangulation may supervene suddenly in cases in which the hernia has never given rise to inconvenience, or it may be the culmination of a long period of suffering. It may quickly terminate in gangrene of the loop of bowel engaged in the sharp-edged ring in the linea alba. It should be subjected to operation on similar lines to that performed for umbilical hernia. Hernias in Relation to Cicatrices of the Abdominal Wall.— These, which are often described as traumatic ventral hernias, may be found at any part of the abdominal wall that is the seat of a scar resulting from a wound or from suppuration. They are most commonly met with after laparotomy wounds below the umbilicus in which primary union has not taken place, as, for example, those made in operating for acute appendicitis, in which drainage has been employed. While suppuration of the wound is the most important factor in its production, ventral hernia may be favoured by imperfect suturing, by too early absorption of the sutures, by inefficient support to the wound, and too short a period of rest in the recumbent position after operation. The hernia takes the form of a diffuse bulging, which appears when the patient stands up, or when he coughs or strains. It may attain a great size, and cause a sense of weakness and of428 HERNIA. incapacity for exertion; it is often attended with gastric and intestinal disturbances. When the patient is recumbent the protrusion is easily reduced, and the area of the scar may be invaginated into the interior of the abdomen. From the large size of the opening such hernia) are very rarely strangulated. The treatment consists in closing the gap in the abdominal muscles by operation, and when this is impracticable in the use of an appropriate belt or shield. Fig. 111.—Lumbar Hernia, in site of Scar of Lumbar Abscess. Lumbar Hernia.—This term is restricted to hernial pro- trusions which appear in the space between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. Apart from cicatricial weakening of the parietes in this region, as from a lumbar abscess that has opened and discharged, the hernia usually escapes through a triangle bounded by the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi, the posterior edge of the external oblique, and the iliac crest—the triangle of Petit. The floor is formed by the stout fascia covering the internal oblique, and beneath this by the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The hernia is more common in males than in females, and onOBTURATOR HERNIA. 429 the left than on the right side. The swelling is small, soft, globular, and readily reducible. It may become irreducible, and in a number of cases has become strangulated. The only con- dition with which it is liable to be confused in diagnosis is a dumb-bell shaped chronic abscess, which may have an impulse on coughing, and may be partly reducible. Lumbar hernise rarely cause any symptoms, and they are either supported by means of a truss or belt or they are sub- jected to operation. Obturator Hernia.—An obturator hernia escapes from the pelvis at the opening for the obturator vessels and nerve in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, and presents in the upper and inner part of the thigh. The protruded viscus— which is nearly always small intestine—carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat, and the pelvic fascia. Beyond the foramen it may pass between the obturator membrane and the obturator externus muscle, and remain deeply placed ; or it may make its way above the muscle and become more superficial, being covered by the pectineus and adductor brevis. The vessels and nerve are usually to the outer side of the sac, less commonly in front. Obturator hernise are most frequently met with in elderly women, and the development of the hernia is sometimes associated with rapid loss of flesh in a person who was previ- ously stout. The majority of the recorded cases have been recognised only after the abdomen has been opened for acute intestinal obstruc- tion, and a loop of small intestine has been found engaged in the obturator opening. As a rule there is little swelling in Scarpa’s triangle, although in some cases a fulness may be found below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament somewhat resembling a femoral hernia. It is most readily felt from the inner side of the thigh behind the origin of the adductor longus, when the limb is flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards. The inner aspect of the obturator aperture should be explored by the finger introduced into the rectum or vagina. Disordered sensation, in the form of pain and numbness along the course of the obturator nerve, is met with in about one-half of the cases. If the condition is recognised apart from strangulation, it should be treated by operation. The thigh is abducted, and an incision made below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament. The interval between the pectineus and adductor longus muscles is opened up, or the pectineus may be divided. The sac and theHERNIA. 430 structures in relation to it must be thoroughly exposed before proceeding to the radical cure. When strangulation has occurred the abdomen should be opened in the semi-lunar line, and the strangulated intestine released from the abdominal aspect of the obturator foramen. If the ring requires division, it should be incised in a direction downwards and inwards to avoid injuring the obturator artery. Diaphragmatic hernia is described at page 479. Hernia of Individual Viscera.—Hernia of the Csecum and Appendix.—The csecum and appendix are most frequently met with in scrotal hernise of the right side, but they have been found in left-sided hernise. The peritoneal relationships of the csecum within the abdomen vary in different subjects. In the great majority of cases the csecum and commencement of the ascending colon are entirely invested with peritoneum, and when these portions of the bowel are herniated they enter a complete sac just as in other forms of hernia. In excep- tional cases the posterior surface of the csecum and adjacent part of the colon is uncovered with peritoneum, and if they enter a hernia it is by gliding downwards so that only the anterior and lateral aspects are free within the sac. Under these circumstances the hernia is irreducible and can only be efficiently treated by operation. In congenital hernia of the caecum the visceral descent is the result of the action of the gubernaculum. When the csecum is present in a congenital sac, there is usually a peritoneal fold— the plica vascularis—uniting the bowel to the testis. This fold contains the spermatic vessels, vas deferens, and upper part of the gubernaculum; and as the testis passes into the scrotum it occasionally pulls the bowel after it by means of the plica (Lockwood). The vermiform appendix may accompany the csecum, or it may be the only viscus found in the hernial sac. It can some- times be distinctly palpated through the coverings of a scrotal hernia, and is liable to become adherent to the sac or to the testis. There would appear to be some confusion between strangulation of the herniated appendix and appendicitis in a hernial sac. Clinically it is usually impossible to differentiate these, and even at the operation it is not always easy. In the majority of cases it is really a strangulation of the appendix. Hernia of the sigmoid flexure is met with in scrotal hernia of the left side under conditions similar to those described as occurring in hernia of the ctecum. Hernia of the Ovary.—In the congenital form, which is thatHERNIA OF THE BLADDER, 431 most frequently met with, the ovary is protruded along a patent canal of Nuck. In infants the ovary may be felt in the inguinal canal or beyond the external ring as a small, smooth, elongated, solid body, which slips about when pressed upon, and is attached to a cord—the Fallopian tube—which can be traced to the in- ternal ring. The ovary rarely reaches the labium. In infants the condition may be only a temporary one, the ovary return- ing within the abdomen as the child grows, or it may, however, become irreducible because of the increase in size of the ovary. In adults the ovary is less readily identified, as it forms a mass very like adherent omentum. Occasionally it may be made to move by traction on the uterus through the vagina. If the patient menstruates, it may become swollen and sensitive at each period. The condition is best treated by operation. If the ovary is normal and can be easily replaced, it is returned to the abdomen ; if, on the other hand, it is diseased or irredu- cible, it should be removed. In the acquired form the ovary is usually accompanied by omentum or intestine. Hernia of the Urinary Bladder. — Cyslocele.—This com- paratively rare form of hernia is met with chiefly in men after middle life, and occurs more commonly in relation to inguinal protrusions. Three chief varieties are recognised according to the peritoneal relationships of the protruded portion of the bladder—(1) The extra-peritoneal form, in which the bladder lies alongside of the hernial sac; (2) The intra-peritoneal, in which the protruded portion of bladder is entirely covered by peritoneum and lies within the hernial sac; (3) The para- peritoneal, in which the inner wall of the hernial sac is partly represented by the peritoneum covering the postero-lateral aspect of the bladder, the rest of the bladder involved in the hernia having no peritoneal coating; the viscus, therefore, is not one of the contents of the sac, but merely projects into it. The third form is the most frequent. Hernia of the bladder may be acquired as the result of some obstruction to the outflow of urine, whereby the bladder becomes distended and dilated, or even pouched, or there may exist a thin-walled diverticulum from the bladder which is protruded alongside of a hernial sac. Minor varieties of the condition may be produced by the surgeon during an operation for the radical cure of hernia, a portion of the bladder being pulled into the inguinal canal by undue traction being made upon the sac. Few cases of hernia of the bladder have been diagnosed before operation. The patient sometimes notices that the hernia432 HERNIA. is larger when the bladder is full and speedily diminishes in size with micturition. In the case of a small protrusion, however, especially when it is of the nature of a diverticulum communi- cating with the bladder by a small opening, these features may not be sufficiently marked to attract attention. If the condition is suspected, it may be confirmed by injecting fluid into the bladder and so distending the prolapsed portion, or by examina- tion with the cystoscope, when the wall of the bladder may be seen to be displaced towards the site of the hernia. The chief danger consists in the likelihood of the bladder being opened while operating for the radical cure. The appear- ances met with in operating are : an unusual amount of extra- peritoneal fat around the sac, and the presence in many cases of what appears to be a second sac to the inner side of the hernial sac proper. Treatment.—The hernia if diagnosed should be subjected to operation. The details of the operation depend on the variety of hernia. If the bladder be accidentally wounded, its wall should be sutured, the organ replaced, and the external wound closed except for a drain; the bladder is kept continually empty by a rubber catheter connected to a suction apparatus. Some- times the injury to the bladder is not recognised at the time of operation, and is only suggested by the patient passing blood- stained urine by the urethra, and by the onset of septic com- plications associated with urinary infiltration, the escape of urine from the wound, and the formation of a urinary fistula. In multiparous women a hernial protrusion of the bladder into the vagina—vaginal cystocele—is by no means uncommon.VOL. II—28 433 CHAPTER XXVI. THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. Surgical anatomy — Methods of suture—Operations on the stomach— Injuries: Contusion; Rupture; Penetrating wounds; Effects of corrosive agents; Foreign bodies and hair-balls—Ulcer of stomach : Surgical aspects; Operative treatment of uncomplicated ulcer; Com- plications of gastric ulcer: Haemorrhage; Perforation; Perigastric abscess and fistula ; Perigastric adhesions ; Gastric tetany ; Effects of cicatricial contraction following gastric ulcer ; Stenosis of pylorus ; Hour-glass contraction — Tumours: Carcinoma; Other tumours — Pyloric obstruction of infants — Gastroptosis — Dilatation of the stomach, gastrectasis — Acute post-operative dilatation — Cardio. spasm—Ulcer of duodenum. Surgical Anatomy.—Our knowledge of the shape and position of the stomach has been modified by the examination of bodies hardened in formalin, by observing the viscus in the course of operations, and by the study of skiagrams made in the living subject after introducing an emulsion of bismuth into the stomach. The stomach is a saccular dilatation of the alimentary canal interven- ing between the oesophagus and the duodenum. It presents an upper surface directed forwards and to the right, and a lower surface directed backwards and to the left, and these surfaces meet at the lesser and greater curvatures. The oesophagus enters the stomach at the upper end of the lesser curvature, and this portion is known as the cardia ; the saccular portion, which extends upwards and to the left of the cardia, is called the fundus. The middle portion, called the body, is continued into the pyloric portion by an obtuse angled or right-angled bend, which produces a distinct furrow in the lesser curvature. The terminal portion is more cylindrical, and is called the pyloric antrum, and it is often indicated by an indistinct furrow in the great curvature. The pyloro- duodenal junction is defined by a marked thickening of the circular muscle fibres—the pyloric sphincter. On the peritoneal surface of the gastric side of the pyloric ring will be found a peculiar arrangement of the blood-vessels, which is nearly con- stant. From the lower side a thick vein passes upward somewhat more than half-way upon the anterior surface. From the upper border a second vein reaches downward in the same line, nearly, if not quite, meeting the first (W. J. Mayo). The function of the body and fundus is chiefly that of a reservoir,THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 434 while the pyloric portion carries out the active grinding and churning movements. When it is seen in its normal condition, in the course of an operation, for example, the stomach is relaxed and flaccid, and is flattened so that the two walls are approximated to one another. .When empty and con- tracted, it is almost cylindrical. Position of the Stomach.—When the stomach is in its normal flaccid condition, it lies obliquely, so that a plane projected through the two Fig. 112.—Tracing to illustrate relations of Normal Stomach to Parietes in the male. curvatures looks upwards, forwards, and to the right; and when it is distended this plane is nearly vertical. In the adult, the lowest portion of the stomach is the junction of the body with the pyloric portion ; in the infant, it is about the middle of the body. The level of the most dependent part of the greater curvature varies with the condition of the stomach, and is not the same in all persons. In the empty and contracted stomach, such as is met with in stricture of the gullet, the great curvature may be actually under cover of the liver ; in conditions of moderate distension it may reach down to the level of the umbilicus ; when the stomach is abnormally dilated, it may435 SURGICAL ANATOMY. reach down as low as the pubes or the floor of the left iliac fossa. In conditions of moderate distension, the transverse colon lies below and parallel with the greater curvature, and when the organ is empty and contracted, the colon may pass upwards and come to lie in front of it. The lesser curvature is attached to the liver by the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, between the layers of which run the coronary vessels. The great curvature gives attachment to the gastro-colic portion of the great omentum, which contains the right and left gastro-epiploic vessels. A small peritoneal fold—the gastro-phrenic ligament—runs from the stomach up to the diaphragm along the left side of the oesophagus. The cardiac orifice is deeply placed, being about four inches from the surface behind the sternal end of the seventh left costal cartilage. The pylorus lies much nearer the surface; and when the stomach is empty, is found in the middle line or slightly to the left of it, about two and three-quarter inches above the umbilicus ; when the stomach is dis- tended, it passes to the right of the middle line and may descend in level an inch or more. Under normal conditions the axis of the pylorus and of the first part of the duodenum is directly backwards ; when the stomach is distended it may incline to the left as well as backwards. The pyloric sphincter occupies the coronal plane ; the gastric orifice has a stellate lumen and looks forwards ; the duodenal orifice in its contracted state resembles the os uteri and looks directly backwards (D. J. Cunningham). The patency of the pylorus may be judged by invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach with the finger ; if, after overcoming the tonic contraction of the sphincter, the orifice does not admit the tip of the index finger into the duodenum, it is to be re- garded as stenosed. Above, the fundus is in contact with the cupola of the diaphragm ; behind and to the left, with the gastric surface of the spleen. The body is in contact posteriorly with the left supra-renal capsule, the left kidney, and the pancreas, and is partly separated from these organs by the peritoneum forming the lesser sac. Above and in front, it is in contact with the left and quadrate lobes of the liver, and, when the organ is empty, it is almost completely covered by these parts. When the stomach is distended, a triangular area of the body and of the pyloric portion lies directly against the anterior abdominal wall in the epigastric region, projecting from beneath the anterior margin of the left lobe of the liver. In the female, as a result of tight-lacing, the stomach may be dis- placed and distorted so that it lies nearly vertically along the left side of the vertebral column, and the pyloric portion bends suddenly upwards and to the right, with a well-marked furrow or constriction between the body and the pyloric portion, simulating an hour-glass constriction. The duodenum is the first portion of the small intestine, and is firmly attached to the posterior abdominal wall. It forms a spiral, horse-shoe curve, open to the left and above, in the concavity of which the head of the pancreas lies. It is divided into three portions : the first or horizontal portion is the shortest, and runs directly backwards, behind and below the quadrate lobe of the liver to the right and in front of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and common bile-duct. It bends round beneath the caudate process of the liver into the second or descending portion, which runs downwards in front of the inner margin of the right kidney and behind the gall-bladder and transverse colon. The third or ascending portion passes to the left in front of the body of the third or fourth436 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. lumbar vertebra and of the vena cava, and then turns abruptly upwards in front of the aorta. This last portion is crossed by the superior mesen- teric vessels and by the root of the mesentery ; it reaches the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, and there, overlapped by the stomach, it bends sharply forwards to join the jejunum—the duodeno- jejunal junction. This junction is firmly attached to the diaphragm by means of the suspensory muscle of the duodenum. The Peritoneal Covering of the Duodenum.—A part of the left wall of the first portion looks into the lesser sac and is covered by its peritoneum. The right and upper walls are completely covered by peritoneum. The descending portion possesses a serous covering on its right and anterior walls, while the horizontal or third portion is only covered in front and below. In the vicinity of the duodeno-jejunal junction there is a pouch of peritoneum—the duodeno-jejunal fossa—into which intestine may be protruded, and constitute one variety of internal hernia. The common bile-duct penetrates the wall of the second or descending portion of the duodenum at the junction of its left and posterior walls, and opens along with the duct of the pancreas (duct of Wirsung), either close to one another by two openings, or when they have previously united, by a common opening. The lesser duct of the pancreas (duct of Santorini) opens above and a little in front of this (Fig. 146). Ochsner has described a thickening of the circular muscular fibres of the duodenum a little beyond the entrance of the common bile-duct ; this appears to act as a sphincter and serves to retain the chyme in the upper part of the duodenum sufficiently long to provide for its being thoroughly mixed with the bile and pancreatic juice before it is passed on into the jejunum. When thrown into spasmodic contraction, as it may be by irritation of the mucous membrane of the duodenuum or of the bile- ducts, it causes damming back of the bile, which may then enter the stomach and appear in the vomit. Ochsner explains in this way the almost constant presence of bile in the vomit in the sickness which follows upon general anaesthesia and in what are popularly known as bilious attacks. Bacteriology.—The normal stomach, when empty, is free of micro- organisms, but immediately after a meal a number of different varieties of organisms appear according to the nature of the food taken. If the food is in a liquid form, it is rapidly passed onwards into the intestine, and the bacterial forms are but slightly, if at all affected. If the food is in a solid form, it remains in the stomach, and the number of bacteria undergoes a steady diminution until digestion is completed. In the disordered digestion which attends upon stagnation of the gastric con- tents due to spasm or cicatricial contraction of the pylorus, there is a great increase in the number of bacteria ; if, under these conditions, the contents are extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, the infection of the peritoneum which ensues is of a more severe character than when the contents are normal. The contents of the duodenum are believed to be sterile. Clinical Methods.—In order to bring out the shape and size of the stomach different means of distension have been adopted, the simplest being to administer the two halves of a Seidlitz powder separately with an interval of a few minutes between them, or, what is perhaps safer, to pass a stomach tube and pump in air by means of a ball syringe. To ascertain the state of matters with regard to the chemical changes within the stomach, it is usual, following the practice of Ewald, to give a test-meal, consisting of toast or rusk without butter, and tea without437 OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. cream or milk, and after the lapse of an hour and a half, to withdraw by means of the stomach tube a sufficient amount of the gastric contents for the purpose of analysis. Attention is chiefly directed to ascertaining the total acidity, to determining the presence or absence of free hydrochloric acid, and to the recognition of butyric and lactic acids. Microscopical examination may in some cases yield information regarding the presence of blood, of sarcinre and other organisms, or, in cases of gastric cancer, of masses of epithelial cells. In gastric ulcer, free hydrochloric acid is usually present in excess— hyperehlorhydria. In conditions of profound nervous depression or of severe catarrh of the stomach, the secretion of an adequate amount of hydrochloric acid may be in abeyance, but in the absence of any symptoms of nervous disturbance, this is suggestive of carcinoma. In 343 cases of gastric cancer, free hydrochloric acid was absent in 89'7 per cent. (Osier and M‘Crae). Operations on the Stomach. To avoid repetition it is convenient here briefly to describe the methods of suturing the stomach and intestine, and certain operations which are performed on the stomach. Fig. 113.—Lembert’s Suture, interrupted—a, Sutures inserted ; b, Sutures tied. Sutures.—In closing wounds in the stomach or bowel, and in uniting divided ends of intestine, the sutures must be inserted in such a way as to prevent leakage of the contents. To ensure this the edges of the wound should be invaginated so that the mucous membrane is turned towards the lumen of the tube, and the serous surfaces on either side are brought into close apposi- tion in order that they may adhere rapidly to one another. The best material to employ is the finest Chinese-twist silk or linen thread, boiled in a solution of corrosive sublimate (1-1000), and the stitches should be introduced with a round needle, which may be straight or curved as preferred. A milliner’s needle suits the purpose admirably.438 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. Lembert’s Suture.—In this suture, suggested by Lembert in 1826 (Fig. 113), the needle is introduced about a quarter of an inch from the edge of the wound, and passed through the serous, muscular, and part of the submucous coats, and, without enter- ing the lumen of the bowel, is made to emerge close to the edge of the wound on the same side. It is next introduced to the same depth close to the edge on the opposite side, and made to emerge about a quarter of an inch farther out. When this stitch is tightened, the edges are inverted and the peritoneal surfaces are brought into close contact. These sutures may be inter- rupted or continuous. a b Fig. 115.—Purse-String Suture—a, Suture introduced around stump of Appendix ; 6, Suture tied, burying stump. The Czerny-Lembert suture (Fig. 114) consists in introducing a continuous suture through all the coats to bring the margins of the wound together, and then burying this by a Lembert suture which approximates the serous surfaces. A. purse-string suture (Fig. 115) is made by carrying a con- Fig. 114.—Czerny - Lembert Suture, continuous—a, Suture closing opening ; b. Peritoneal Suture.439 OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. tinuous Lembert suture circularly round an area of bowel, for example, that around the stump of the appendix, or a perfora- tion, so that when it is tightened the enclosed area is puckered in, and the serous surfaces brought into apposition. Operations on the Stomach. —The operation of gastrotomy, or opening the stomach, is most frequently performed for the removal of foreign bodies from the stomach or lower end of the oesophagus, but may also be performed to allow of the interior of the stomach being explored. The incision is made through the rectus muscle to one side of the middle line above the umbilicus. The stomach having been identified, and its con- tents pressed onwards into the duodenum, the part to be opened is brought out at the wound and the adjacent area of the peri- toneal cavity is packed off with gauze wrung out of hot salt solution. An incision is then made in the anterior wall of the viscus, midway between its curvatures and parallel with the blood-vessels. A finger is inserted and the interior of the stomach explored. The examination of the posterior wall can be facilitated by passing two fingers through a hole made in the gastro-colic omentum and invaginating the posterior wall of the stomach through the wound made in the anterior wall. After the exploration is completed, the wound in the stomach is closed by a continuous suture through all the coats, and a superimposed Lembert suture which does not include the mucous membrane (Fig. 114). Gastrostomy.—The object of this operation is to establish a gastric fistula through which the patient may be fed, for example, in cases of stricture of the oesophagus. To prevent leakage of the stomach contents, and consequent irritation of the skin around the orifice, the operation should be so planned as to make the fistula valvular or tortuous. The operation devised by Witzel yields most satisfactory results. The stomach is exposed, the pyloric portion pulled out of the wound, and an opening just large enough to admit a number 12 English catheter made in the anterior wall about the middle of the pre- senting portion. Through this opening a flexible rubber tube is introduced so that it projects about an inch into the cavity of the viscus, and fixed in position by means of a catgut stitch. What may be called an artificial oesophagus is next made by embedding about two or three inches of the tube in the stomach wall. This is done by raising on each side of the tube a fold of the sero-muscular coats of the stomach, and uniting the two folds by a series of Lembert sutures. The part of the stomach from which the rubber tube emerges is then securely fixed to theTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 440 parietal peritoneum by sutures. Finally, the tube is brought obliquely through the abdominal wall and the wound is closed. A broad silver ring, provided with two eyes to which tapes are fastened, is applied round the rubber tube where it emerges from the fistula. The patient is fed through a funnel introduced into the outer end of the tube, and the first meal may with advantage be given before he leaves the operating table. Between meals the tube is occluded by a clamp or a wooden spill. Great care must be taken during the first week not to displace the tube, as some difficulty may be experienced in re- introducing it, and, in the attempt, the sutures may be torn and leakage take place. After the fistulous track has become estab- lished, the tube may be removed and cleaned from time to time. Another method of performing gastrostomy is that associated with the names of Frank and Albert: a conical portion of the anterior wall of the stomach, after being brought out through the rectus, is drawn through a tunnel made in the subcutaneous tissue, and attached to the skin at a point above and to the left of the original wound. At this point the stomach is opened and a tube inserted through which the patient is fed. Pyloroplasty consists in dividing the anterior wall of the pylorus by a longitudinal incision, and stitching the edges of this at right angles to its long axis. Loreto’s operation consists in opening the stomach near the pylorus and stretching the sphincter by dilators ; the same object is achieved without open- ing the stomach by Hahn’s method, which consists in invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach through the pylorus with the forefinger. These procedures are contra-indicated in cicatricial contraction of the pylorus, and are now rarely practised. Gastro-enterostomy.—This operation consists in establishing a communication between the stomach and the small intestine, with the object of making a new, dependent outlet for the gastric contents. The anastomosis is usually made with the jejunum—gastro- jejunostomy ; and the intestine may either be brought upwards in front of the colon and anastomosed with the anterior wall of the stomach (Wblfler), or the anastomosis may be made with the posterior wall of the stomach (Von Hacker). The posterior operation is the one most frequently practised now, and it has been modified by W. J. Mayo, Moynihan, and others. The abdomen is opened by a vertical incision to the right of the middle line above the umbilicus. The stomach, transverse colon, and omentum are drawn out of the wound and441 INJURIES. turned upwards, and an opening is made in the meso-colon parallel with its blood-vessels, so as to expose the posterior surface of the stomach. A portion of stomach at the lowest part of the greater curvature is selected for the anastomosis and grasped by a clamp. The upper part of the jejunum is then found by passing the fingers along the under surface of the meso-colon immediately to the left of the spine, and the highest available portion of it brought into contact with the stomach and secured in a clamp, in such a way that the loop of bowel selected runs from right to left. An anastomosis is then made between the stomach and jejunum, an ellipse of mucous mem- brane being excised from each viscus. The edges of the opening in the meso-colon are then stitched over the line of junction, so as to bury it and prevent any hernial protrusion through the gap. After being cleansed, the viscera are replaced in the abdomen, and the wound in the parietes closed. When the patient has recovered from the anaesthetic he is propped up in bed with pillows. Operations have been devised by Kocher and by Finney, in which the duodenum is united to the anterior wall of the pyloric portion of the stomach—gastro-duodenostomy. A rare sequel of gastro-enterostomy is the formation of an ulcer—the peptic ulcer of the jejunum—which is usually situated on the efferent loop near to its junction with the stomach, and is apparently due to the acid contents of the stomach being brought into contact with the mucous membrane. Injuries of the Stomach. The stomach may be contused or even ruptured from a severe blow over the epigastrium, without there being any evidence of damage to the abdominal wall. The lesion is usually on the anterior wall near the pylorus. Contusions are important chiefly from the fact that the damaged portion of the stomach wall may subsequently become gangrenous, in which case signs of perforation-peritonitis ensue several days after the injury. In complete rupture, gas escapes into the peritoneal cavity, and the fluid contents of the stomach may also escape and set up perforation-peritonitis. The patient is profoundly collapsed, the pulse small and rapid, and the temperature subnormal. The abdominal muscles are rigid, and the respiration is entirely thoracic. There may be vomiting of unaltered blood, or of blood blackened by digestion. The liver or spleen may be ruptured442 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. at the same time, and the patient show signs of internal haemorrhage. Means are taken to counteract shock; and the abdomen is opened to one or other side of the middle line, and the rent in the stomach closed by a double tier of sutures. If the soiled area of peritoneum is limited to the region of the tear, gentle sponging with sterile normal salt solution is sufficient to purify it, but if the stomach contents have been widely disseminated, it is necessary to irrigate the whole peritoneal cavity with large quantities of fluid. An additional opening above the pubes should be made to enable the pouch of Douglas and the pelvic cavity to be thoroughly irrigated and drained. Penetrating Wounds.—The stomach may be perforated by a sharp object, such as a knife-blade or a spike, thrust through the abdominal wall, or by a bullet. Except when produced by a high-velocity bullet, the wound in the stomach is usually sufficiently large to permit of the escape of gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity, and not infrequently there is internal haemorrhage from injury to the vessels of the stomach wall. If the penetrating body passes through the abdominal wall obliquely, the wound in the parietes may be valvular, and as its external aperture does not lie opposite the level of the stomach, the possibility of a gastric lesion may be overlooked. As there is comparatively little shock at the time of the injury, it may be some hours before the gravity of the condition is made manifest by the onset of symptoms of perforation-peritonitis. Occasion- ally the stomach is perforated from within by the unskilful use of an oesophageal bougie, or by sharp bodies passed along the oesophagus—by “sword swallowers,” for example. The treatment is to explore, and, if necessary, to enlarge the abdominal wound. If a perforation is found, its edges, if damaged, should be pared with scissors. Before closing the perforation the posterior wall should be investigated in case it also has been damaged. The perforation is then closed by a double tier of sutures, the damaged edges being invaginated into the interior of the organ. Perforations caused by ride bullets have been considered in vol. i. p. 230. Effects of Corrosive Agents.—When a concentrated acid or alkali or other caustic substance has been swallowed, the corrosive action is most severe along the lesser curvature and at the pyloric end of the stomach, and it may prove fatal, either immediately from perforation of the stomach, or later from sloughing. When the destructive action does not at once extend to all the coats, cicatricial contraction subsequently ensues, andFOREIGN BODIES. 443 may cause stenosis of the pylorus or an hour-glass constriction in the body of the stomach. As a rule the gullet also is damaged and becomes the seat of stricture. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach.—When such articles as small coins, buttons, beads, or fruit-stones are swallowed, being comparatively smooth and rounded, they usually traverse the pylorus and are passed by the rectum. Other bodies, such as tooth-plates, large nails, pieces of bone, forks, etc., are liable to be retained in the stomach, either because they are too large to pass through the pylorus, or because they are sharp and irregular, and catch on the gastric mucous membrane. Sharp bodies may perforate the stomach and cause fatal peritonitis, or they may lodge in its cavity and give rise to symptoms simulat- ing those of gastric ulcer. Large bodies may be palpable through the abdominal wall, and when opaque they may be demonstrable by the Rontgen rays. In young girls who have acquired the habit of biting their hair, the fragments which they swallow are liable to accumulate in the stomach, and by the contraction of its muscular coat they become rolled into balls which may attain a very considerable size. These hair- balls may be felt as round bodies which are freely movable within the stomach, and they give rise to gastric pain, indiges- tion, and emaciation. They are met with chiefly in imbecile children. Treatment.—The passage of foreign bodies through the pylorus and intestines is facilitated by administering a large meal of porridge, rice-pudding, or pease-brose, which will enclose the foreign body and fill up any crevices in it. When there are any rough projections on the body, a quantity of chopped-up worsted or string is a useful addition to the bolus, the strands being wound round the projections by the churning movements of the stomach. The object should be sought for in the stools, which should be mixed with water and strained through muslin. Hair- balls and large irregular bodies such as plates of teeth should be removed by operation—gastrotomy. Ulcer of the Stomach. The common form of gastric ulcer is probably due to a digestive action of the gastric juice on a portion of the mucous membrane that has been damaged or deprived of its blood- supply. Such ulcers are single or multiple in approximately equal proportion. They are rounded or oval, and vary greatly in size. In some cases only the mucous membrane is destroyed,444 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. but the tendency is for a process of erosion to progress through the other coats until the peritoneum is reached, and this in its turn may be perforated—perforating ulcer. If adhesions have taken place with an adjacent organ, such as the pancreas or liver, or with the anterior abdominal wall, the erosion is con- tinued into the substance of the organ, constituting what is known as a penetrating ulcer. In the process of erosion vessels may be opened into and haemorrhage take place; blood may be vomited pure, or so altered as to have the appearance of coffee grounds ; it appears also as a tarry material in the motions. An abundant production of fibrous tissue in relation to an ulcer of long standing may result in the formation of a tumour- like swelling, which is rarely palpable through the abdominal wall unless adherent to the parietal peritoneum, but is readily recognised when the stomach is exposed after opening the abdomen. It may be difficult to distinguish such a tumour from a cancer of the stomach or from an ulcer that is under- going cancerous transformation, and it is highly probable that those suspected malignant tumours that have disappeared after the performance of gastro-enterostomy have been of this nature. The healing of a gastric ulcer is frequently accompanied by marked cicatricial contraction, which may lead to puckering of the stomach wall; if situated near the pylorus, this may cause stenosis of the opening; in the body of the stomach, it may lead to an hour-glass constriction. There is increasing evidence to show that an ulcer of long standing may become the starting- point of cancer. The acute ulcer, which tends to bleed or to perforate at an early stage, is met with chiefly in young, anaemic women; the chronic indurated ulcer is about equally common in men and women up to the age of forty or forty-five. The pain, which is usually a prominent feature, varies a good deal with the site of the ulcer. When an ulcer is close to the cardiac orifice, it causes pain immediately after the taking of food, and it sometimes gives rise to symptoms which resemble those due to stricture of the lower end of the gullet. When the ulcer is situated in the pyloric portion, the onset of pain is delayed, and as a result of reflex contraction of the muscular coat and of the sphincter of the pylorus, there are often super- added the symptoms of pyloric obstruction, dilatation of the stomach, and stasis of its contents. When the ulcer is situated on the posterior wall it is sometimes observed that relief from pain is obtained when the patient lies on his face. Tenderness in the epigastrium and rigidity of the abdominal muscles areULCER OF THE STOMACH. 445 met with when the ulcer is situated in the pyloric portion or in the pylorus itself, especially in cases in which adhesions have formed between these parts of the stomach and the anterior abdominal wall. The contents of the stomach usually show an abnormally high percentage of free hydrochloric acid. In cases in which there is pyloric obstruction, the stasis of the contents may lead to fermentative changes and the formation of lactic and butyric acids; and sarcinae and yeast granules are sometimes present. In ulcers of long standing—ten to fifteen years—free hydro- chloric acid may no longer be found in the gastric contents, and the differential diagnosis of such cases from cancer may be difficult or impossible. It remains to be said that in a certain number of cases the clinical features are indefinite, and partake of those of chronic dyspepsia. Treatment of Gastric Ulcer.—In the absence of urgent com- plications, medical treatment should be had recourse to in the first instance, the patient being kept in bed for a month or six weeks, and fed at first only by saline injections by the rectum (F. D. Boyd), and then on milk diet. It has been estimated that the proportion of real cures, even after prolonged treatment by diet and rest, is under 25 per cent. (Mayo Robson). If, after a thorough trial of medical measures, the patient is not free from digestive troubles, or if, after a period of freedom from symptoms, there is relapse, recourse should be had to surgical treatment, which results in cure in a proportion of from 80 to 90 per cent., and is attended with a very low mortality. Surgical Treatment.—The measures to be adopted in any individual case cannot be decided on until the abdomen has been opened and the condition of the entii'e stomach investigated. Attention should be directed to the presence of adhesions, of a cicatrix, of a contraction or stenosis of the pylorus, of an hour- glass constriction, of a palpable induration or tumour, and to the amount of dilatation. The position of the ulcer is often shown on the outer aspect of the stomach by a thick milky-white patch, which, in ulcers involving the lesser curvature, is frequently saddle-shaped, the flaps of the saddle extending down the anterior and posterior walls respectively. A small ulcer may sometimes be located by an enlarged “sentinel” gland in the adjacent omentum (Lund). Excision of the Ulcer.—This was first practised by Rydigier in 1881. It is not to be recommended, however, unless the ulcer is favourably situated in an accessible portion of the organ,446 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. or unless there is a suspicion that it may be undergoing malignant transformation. When practicable, infolding of the portion of stomach wall comprising the ulcer should be preferred to excision. Whichever procedure is adopted, it should be combined with a gastro-enterostomy. Gastro-jejunostomy is the operation of choice. It acts by affording a free, dependent outlet from the stomach, thus over- coming stasis, relieving excessive acidity, and diminishing the tendency to muscular spasm at and near the pylorus. As a curative operation, it is most successful in cases in which the ulcer is situated in the vicinity of the pylorus, and hypertrophy has resulted from the long-standing obstacle to the emptying of the organ. The after-results in these cases are usually remark- able : the pain vanishes, all kinds of food are easily digested, and, as a rule, the patient rapidly gains in weight. Gastro-duodenostomy, by the method of Kocher or Finney, entails the disadvantage that the gastric contents must pass through the part of the stomach in which the ulcer is situated in order to reach the outlet (Mayo). Complications of Gastric Ulcer.—Haemorrhage—Gas- trorrhagia.—Haemorrhage is one of the common accompani- ments of gastric ulcer, and it may threaten life by repeatedly recurring at short intervals and producing anaemia. In such cases the bleeding is usually from capillaries, and can be con- trolled by medical measures. Cases are recorded, however, in which capillary oozing has been sufficiently profuse to prove fatal, and in which on examination after death the source of the bleeding could not be discovered. When the haemorrhage is due to erosion of a large artery exposed in the base of the ulcer, for example, the coronary or splenic artery, it is a serious complication, although it is exceptional for a first haemorrhage to prove fatal. In all cases of recurrent haemorrhage, gastro-enterostomy should be performed, and, when possible, this should be done in an interval between two bleedings rather than while the haemor- rhage is in progress. It is only in exceptional cases that the ulcer should be dealt with directly by excision, infolding, ligature, or cauterisation. Perforation.—Perforation is a comparatively common com- plication, and while it occurs most frequently in young women, it may be met with in adults of either sex and of any age. Per- foration has been met with as early in life as 12 and as late as 71 (F. M. Caird). The ulcers that most frequently perforate are those situated in the anterior Avail near the pylorus and447 PERFORATION OF GASTRIC ULCER. towards the lesser curvature, and next to these, those in the body of the stomach towards the cardiac end. It has been estimated by Finney that there are two or more perforations in about 20 per cent, of cases, but in 100 cases operated upon by ourselves and F. M. Caird only one instance of double perfora- tion was met with. The perforation varies in size from a pin- point opening to a hole large enough to admit the tip of the little finger ; its edges are usually sharply defined and indurated, and a variable area of the wall surrounding the ulcer is rigid from oedema. The perforation may occur directly on to the free surface of the visceral peritoneum and so infect the general peritoneal cavity, or it may take place at a point where the stomach has formed adhesions to the surrounding structures and thus give rise to a localised peritonitis or to a perigastric abscess. When the ulcer is on the posterior wall of the stomach, it may open directly into the lesser sac, and if the foramen of Winslow is obliterated, this leads to the formation of a sub-phrenic abscess on the left side. In minute perforations into the general peritoneal cavity, and especially if the stomach is empty at the time, the leakage may be so small that the resulting infection becomes limited by adhesions. Clinical Features.—It is important to discriminate clearly between the symptoms that come on immediately on the giving way of the ulcer, and those that ensue later as a result of infection of the peritoneal cavity. The former present certain features which are characteristic of perforation of the stomach or duodenum, and are helpful in diagnosis; the latter are common to nearly all forms of acute infective peritonitis, and are therefore only of diagnostic value in the light of what preceded them. Pain.—The most striking, constant, and characteristic symptom of the occurrence of perforation is the sudden onset of intense abdominal pain, which is variously described by different patients as of a stabbing, cutting, tearing, burning, or twisting character. It is always of extreme severity, doubling the patient up, causing him to writhe in agony, and usually to cry out. The initial pain, as a rule, radiates all over the abdomen, and the patient indicates its site by sweeping the hand across the belly or round the umbilical region. In most cases there is an area situated in the epigastrium, or in one or other hypochondrium, in which the pain reaches its maximum intensity. In a few instances, both in gastric and duodenal perforations, the pain is specially448 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. referred to the right iliac fossa, and this may lead to an errone- ous diagnosis of appendicitis. In most cases, after having lasted for a period varying from half an hour to about two hours, this overpowering pain gradually eases off, and the patient experiences a sense of relief, tempered, however, by the feeling that at any moment the suffering may be renewed. The whole abdomen remains tender to touch, and by careful palpation an area in which the tenderness is most marked can generally be delineated, and this is usually found to correspond with the position in which the initial pain was most severe. In the majority of cases even light pressure cannot be borne over the abdomen, the muscles of which are tightly braced up. There is often a remarkable correspondence between the site of the maximum tenderness and the seat of the perforation. When the most tender area is in the left hypochondrium, the perforation is almost invariably towards the cardiac end of the stomach ; when around the umbilicus, in the body of the stomach; and when in the right hypochondrium, near the pyloric end, or in the duodenum. So constant is this association, that it may be relied upon as a guide to the site of incision. The temperature is sub-normal, and the skin is cold and pallid; vomiting is more often absent than present. There is marked rigidity of the abdominal muscles, and the abdomen does not move with respiration. On percussion, a uniform, tense, drum-like note is elicited all over the abdomen, and the area of liver dulness is usually diminished or lost. The severity of the symptoms varies, being least marked when a small perforation is surrounded by adhesions or opens into the lesser sac, and when the stomach is empty at the time of perforation. Period of Reaction.—In the course of one or two hours reaction conies on and the severity of the condition abates. The pain and tenderness are less marked, the pulse improves, the face becomes slightly flushed, and the patient both looks and feels better. So marked may the improvement be that it is sometimes difficult to persuade the patient or the friends that the condition is a serious one. The rigidity and immobility of the abdomen, however, persist, and the pulse becomes progress- ively more rapid and loses in quality. Onset of Symptoms of Peritonitis.—Sooner or later—usually within three or four hours—the apparent improvement ceases, and symptoms of infection of the peritoneum supervene. The pain returns, and, although less severe than at first, is more generalised over the abdomen ; the pulse becomes rapid—120 toPERFORATION OF GASTRIC ULCER. 449 140—and feeble ; the features are drawn, the expression anxious. The abdomen becomes distended and tympanitic. There is great variation in the time of onset, rapidity of progress, and extent of spread of the peritonitis, but if untreated, death usually occurs in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, although life has sometimes been prolonged for a week or more. The diagnosis is usually easy, and with an accurate history and careful examination, it should be possible to exclude such conditions as biliary colic, acute appendicitis, and the rupture of an extra-uterine pregnancy or a pyosalpinx. Young women who have suffered from the symptoms of gastric ulcer are sometimes seized with intense abdominal pain and collapse, so closely simulating those of perforation that it is almost impossible to make a diagnosis. In such cases, however, it may be observed that the improvement which follows the initial attack of pain continues and the rigidity of the abdominal muscles disappears. When any reasonable doubt exists, an exploratory operation should be performed. Prognosis.—When the perforation occurs into the general peritoneal cavity, the only hope of saving the patient’s life lies in operation, and this is seldom successful unless performed within twelve hours. Operation.—The abdomen is opened by a free incision above the umbilicus, to one or other side of the middle line, according to the seat of maximum pain and tenderness. When the per- foration has taken place into the general peritoneal cavity, gas and yellow, turbid fluid escape as soon as the peritoneum is divided. It is unusual to be able to recognise portions of undigested food ; as a matter of fact, the large amount of fluid found in the peritoneal cavity has not escaped from the stomach, but is an exudate from the peritoneum. The site of the per- foration may be indicated by gas and fluid gushing from it with the respiratory movements, or by the greater amount of lymph on the peritoneal surfaces in its vicinity. When not immediately evident, it must be systematically sought for, and if no perforation is found on the anterior surface, the posterior wall should be explored through an opening in the lesser sac made by tearing a hole in the gastro-colic omentum, close to the greater curvature. The affected portion of stomach should, if possible, be drawn well up into the wound, and pads of gauze inserted round about to prevent further infection. The opening in the ulcer is at once closed by a single stitch, which passes through all the coats of the stomach on either side of the perforation. It is then VOL. II—29THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 450 effectually sealed by infolding the stomach wall by a double layer of Lembert sutures. When it is impossible to close the perforation by sutures, it may be occluded by stitching a piece of omentum or other adjacent viscus over it.. If the stomach contains much fluid, it should be syphoned off by a rubber catheter inserted through the perforation, or by a tube passed down the oesophagus, and the opportunity may be taken of washing out the stomach. The second stage of the operation consists in cleansing the peritoneal cavity. When the perforation is a small one and the leakage of gastric contents limited to its immediate vicinity, it is sufficient to mop up the fluid with gauze : but when the infection is widespread, the whole peritoneal cavity must be irrigated with hot salt solution. Before doing so an incision must be made above the pubes, and a long wide glass tube passed to the bottom of the pouch of Douglas. The apparatus employed is a large glass funnel with four feet of rubber tubing attached, and a glass uterine douche tube. The tube is intro- duced in various directions until the fluid returns quite clear. The region of the perforation is flushed out first, next the pouch of Douglas, and then in order, the left -sub-phrenic space and the region of the spleen, the left iliac fossa, the right sub-phrenic space, the region of the hepatic flexure and pouch below the liver, and lastly the right iliac fossa. If the condition of the patient permits of it, a gastro- enterostomy should be performed, to promote the healing of the sutured ulcer, to prevent a second ulcer when present giving further trouble, and to obviate the risks of stenosis of the pylorus. The wound is closed, with or without a cigarette drain at its lowest point, the glass tube emerging from the opening above the pubes sufficing for drainage. After recovery from the anaesthetic, the patient should be propped up in a sitting posture with pillows, or the head of the bed may be elevated on blocks. Saline solution is introduced continuously into the rectum. The drainage tube is removed at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. After the first twenty-four hours, albumin water is given in small quantity at frequent intervals, later milk and lime-water, beef-tea, and gruel. The escape of gastric contents from the wound sometimes occurs as a result of the formation of a gastric fistula, but this usually closes without operative interference. In some cases the patient, after recovery from the shock and infection of the peritoneum, develops chest complications such as pleurisy, pneumonia, or empyema : phlebitis of the portal vein andCOMPLICATIONS OF GASTRIC ULCER 451 hepatic abscess ; sub-phrenic abscess ; or phlebitis of one of the peripheral veins. We have observed cases in which the patient, having recovered from the peritonitis, died at periods ranging from one to six months after the operation from causes directly- associated with the perforation. Perigastric Abscess and Gastric Fistula.—These complica- tions are usually associated with the perforation of a chronic gastric ulcer which has become adherent to surrounding structures. The stomach contents which escape from the perforation are thereby limited to its immediate vicinity, and set up a localised suppuration. This occurs most frequently in ulcers situated on the lesser curvature and towards the cardiac end of the stomach, and the resulting abscess forms below the left vault of the diaphragm, constituting one variety of sub-phrenic abscess (p. 371). Ulcers on the posterior wall may give rise to a localised abscess in the lesser peritoneal sac, or in the retro-peritoneal tissue, according to the disposition of the adhesions. When a perigastric abscess forms in connection with an ulcer on the anterior wall of the stomach, it usually projects below the costal margin in the left hypochondrium, or in the loin. When it bursts it is liable to be followed by the formation of a gastric fistula. The characters of these fistulse vary with their site. In those near the cardiac end of the stomach the escape of gastric contents is intermittent, and the general health of the patient does not deteriorate ; in those near the pylorus, it is continuous, with a corresponding effect on the patient’s nutri- tion. The abscess should be thoroughly drained, and if the fistula is small, it may heal spontaneously if the patient is fed for a time entirely by the rectum. If it persists, the abdomen should be opened, the ulcer exposed and excised, and the stomach securely closed. A fistulous communication occasionally forms between the stomach and some part of the intestine, particularly the trans- verse colon—gastro-colic fistula. The stools contain undigested food, and the patient complains of foetid eructations and of vomiting of faecal matter. This condition is best treated by exposing the viscera, separating them by dissection, and closing the respective apertures by sutures. Perigastric Adhesions.—In many cases adhesions between the stomach and surrounding parts give rise to no symptoms. In other cases, by fixing some part of the stomach and so disturbing its motor functions, or by causing kinking of the pylorus, they interfere with the onward passage of the gastric contents, and so lead to dilatation. The patient complainsTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 452 of dragging pains, and of a sense of discomfort after meals. These symptoms are aggravated by exertion, but are relieved by lying down or by wearing a tight belt. Sometimes there are symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation, with vomiting after food. When the anterior wall of the stomach is fixed by dense adhesions to the parietal peritoneum, a tumour may be palpable in the epigastric region. In mild cases relief may be obtained by restricting the diet, wearing a tight belt, and resting for some time after food. In more severe cases it is necessary to have recourse to operation. While it may sometimes be feasible to separate the adhesions— (/astrolysis—and interpose the right free border of the great omentum between the pylorus and its abnormal attachments so as to hinder their re formation on the same scale as before, in the majority of cases it is better to leave the adhesions undisturbed and perform gastro-enterostomy. Gastric Tetany.—In some cases of chronic ulcer associated with stasis and fermentation of the gastric contents, the patient suffers from paroxysms of peculiar spasms or cramps of the extremities, and hyper-excitability of the muscles and nerve- trunks of the limbs. The features resemble those of tetany arising from other causes, and they are usually relieved by restoring the functions of the stomach by performing gastro- enterostomy. Effects of Cicatricial Contraction following Gastric Ulcer. —These include stenosis of the pylorus and hour-glass constric- tion of the stomach. When stenosis of the 'pylorus results from cicatricial contrac- tion of an ulcer the food is obstructed in its passage and accumulates in the cavity of the stomach, where it undergoes fermentation. The stomach becomes hypertrophied and dilated to such an extent sometimes that the greater curvature may reach the level of the pubes. Peristaltic waves may be seen passing across the stomach from left to right, and splashing sounds may be elicited on palpation. The patient vomits large quantities of sour-smelling, partially digested food, mixed with frothy mucus and containing large numbers of sarcinae. There is marked loss of flesh and obstinate constipation. The symptoms may be palliated by careful dieting and by washing out the stomach, but the condition can be cured only by operation; in the majority a most satisfactory result is obtained by gastro-enterostomy. When there is reason to suspect the existence of cancer of the pylorus, the operation of pylorectomy should be performed.HOUR-GLASS STOMACH. 453 Hour-glass constriction of the stomach (Fig. 117) is usually the result of cicatricial contraction associated with the presence of a saddle-shaped ulcer in the lesser curvature or body of the stomach, or of adhesions which fix the central area of the viscus to the anterior abdominal wall. There is usually a history of symptoms of ulcer lasting for many years, and there Fig. 116.—Tracing of Hour-glass Stomach in relation to Parietes, in woman, aet. 35. is frequently also stenosis of the pylorus. The size and situation of the communication between the two compartments vary widely; the proximal compartment is usually hidden behind the ribs, while the distal one presents in the epigastrium (Fig. 116). The clinical features resemble those of dilatation of the stomach associated with pyloric stenosis, but there are certain signs which may enable the diagnosis of hour-glass constriction to be made with considerable certainty. If the stomach-tube isTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 454 passed and the organ washed out with a known quantity of fluid, the loss of a certain amount will be observed when the return fluid is measured, the lost fluid having passed from the cardiac into the pyloric compartment (Wolfler). After the stomach has been washed out until the fluid returns clear, a sudden, unexpected gush of dirty, fermented stomach contents makes its appearance, due to reflux from the pyloric compart- ment (Wolfler). After washing out the stomach with the tube, splashing may still be elicited in the epigastric region, the pyloric segment not having been emptied. This phenomenon has been called “ paradoxical dilatation ” by Jaworski. On the stomach being distended with air, a distinct sulcus may be recognised separating the two pouches, and if the two halves of a Seidlitz powder are separately given, a loud forcible gushing Fig. 117.—Hour-glass Contraction of tlie Stomach following Gastric Ulcer. sound can be easily heard with the stethoscope at a point two or three inches to the left of the middle line (von Eiselsberg). The treatment is operative, and the procedure suitable to a given case can only be decided upon after the stomach has been exposed and the exact nature of the deformity discovered. When the isthmus is near the centre of the stomach, and the compartments are not much dilated, a gastroplasty carried out on the same lines as pyloroplasty may suffice. When the isthmus is near the lesser curvature, and the compartments sag downwards so that they meet below the isthmus, gastro- anastomosis—that is, the establishment of a communication between the lower part of the two pouches—is indicated. If the pylorus is stenosed, gastro-enterostomy will be required in addition, and in some cases each compartment must be united to the intestine to provide for the efficient drainage of both. When the isthmus is the seat of cancer it must be resected, andCANCER OF THE STOMACH. 455 the divided ends of the stomach brought together by sutures— circular resection of the stomach. New Growths of the Stomach. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma is by far the most common form of neoplasm met with in the stomach. It appears to occur with about equal frequency in the two sexes, and usually develops between the ages of forty and sixty, although it has been met with in persons under thirty. The pathological and clinical features vary according as the tumour involves the pylorus, the body, or the cardia. Mention must be made of the fact that cancer is liable to develop in an old-standing gastric ulcer—so- called “ ulcer-cancer ” of the stomach. The region of the lesser curvature near the pylorus is that most frequently attacked, the growth being situated there in fully 60 per cent, of all cases. It is in this situation also that “ ulcer-cancer ” is most likely to develop. The disease is usually of the infiltrating scirrhous variety, and forms a small, hard tumour, which tends to surround and occlude the pyloric orifice. It increases slowly, shows little tendency to invade the duodenum, but spreads towards the body of the stomach, and especially along the lesser curvature in the line of the main lymphatics. The glands lying between the layers of the gastro- hepatic omentum along the lesser curvature are usually infected ; those in the great omentum along the greater curvature, and those behind the pylorus, between it and the head of the pancreas, may also become involved ; but it should be stated that these glands are sometimes enlarged without being infected with cancer. The tumour is liable to form adhesions in front with the liver and gall-bladder, and behind with the head of the pancreas. Tumours of the body of the stomach are frequently of the columnar variety and increase rapidly, the growth projecting in the form of cauliflower-like masses into the lumen of the organ, and being liable to ulcerate and bleed. They frequently undergo colloid degeneration. In cases of hour-glass stomach, due to cicatricial contraction of a gastric ulcer, cancer frequently develops at the isthmus. Cancer at the cardia may be a columnar epithelioma, or a squamous epithelioma which has spread down from the oesophagus. Clinical Features.—The first symptoms are gradual loss of appetite and loss of flesh, developing without obvious cause in aTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 456 person previously in good health. In course of time the patient becomes anaemic, and being easily tired is disinclined for exertion. Pain or discomfort after food is usually complained of, especially when the cancer involves the pyloric orifice, and vomiting of food, sometimes mixed with altered blood, is frequently observed. This altered blood presents the appearance of coffee grounds; rarely is pure blood vomited as in gastric ulcer. There is generally an absence of tenderness on pressure and of rigidity of the recti. Free hydrochloric acid is absent from the contents of the stomach, and lactic and butyric acids make their appearance when fermentation changes have occurred. There is usually marked leucocytosis. The detection of a palpable tumour should not be relied upon for diagnostic purposes, as in a large number of cases the growth is drawn up beneath the costal margin; it can, however, sometimes be brought within reach by distending the stomach with air. The tumour is more frequently palpable when it occupies the anterior aspect of the body of the stomach, and in such cases the swelling may be so circumscribed, firm, and mobile as to be mistaken for a floating kidney, a tumour of the colon, or a movable spleen. In cases of pyloric cancer the stomach is usually dilated, and the characteristic symptoms of gastric stasis with splashing and visible peristaltic movements are present. In cancer of the cardia, the stomach is usually small and atrophied, and the symptoms resemble those of cancer of the oesophagus. Enlargement and induration of the lymphatic glands in the root of the neck on the left side is usually associated with an ex- tension of the cancer from the lesser curvature to the diaphragm. In cases of “ ulcer-cancer,” pain is a fairly constant and early symptom, and free hydrochloric acid not only is present in the gastric contents, but may be in excess; the existence of cancer may be suggested but it is rarely diagnosed until the stomach is explored by operation. Tumours of the stomach have to be diagnosed from tumours of the colon, the omentum, the gall-bladder, the liver, the pancreas, and the abdominal wall; from swellings resulting from ulcer with perigastric adhesions; and from a floating kidney or spleen. In many cases it is only by performing an exploratory laparotomy that the diagnosis can be made. This operation should only be performed when there is reason to expect that the disease is removable, or that a palliative operation which will relieve the symptoms can be done—that is to say, it should not be performed merely for purposes of diagnosis.457 CANCER OF THE STOMACH. Treatment.—Complete excision of the affected segment of stomach and of the associated lymphatics is the only means of curing the disease. In many cases it is only after the stomach and the adjacent parts have been exposed by laparotomy that it is possible to say whether or not the radical operation is feasible. If the disease is confined to the stomach and has not formed any close adhesions to surrounding viscera, if the associated glands are capable of being removed, and if there is no evidence of metastasis having occurred, the radical operation should be carried out. The operation of gastrectomy, or resection of the stomach, consists in removing an elliptical portion of the stomach, or, it may be, a complete segment of the organ. The former operation involves less complicated stitching than the latter, and is to be preferred when by it the whole disease can be removed. The term pylorectomy is applied when the opera- tion is performed for malignant disease of the pylorus, although a considerable portion of the stomach must also be removed at the same time. The technique of the operation has been simplified by the preliminary ligation of the arteries distributed to the stomach, by the use of suitable clamps, and by re-establishing the continuity of the alimentary passage by means of a gastro- jejunostomy (Billroth’s second method of resection of stomach), where so much of the stomach has been removed that there is difficulty in uniting what remains of it to the duodenum. Mere extent of the disease is not in itself a bar to operation, as is shown by the fact that the whole stomach has been success- fully removed. The mortality from the radical operation is con- siderable, the chief causes of death being shock, septic peritonitis, pneumonia, and gangrene of the colon. If the patient survives the operation, he rapidly puts on weight, and may completely regain his health and strength. While the motor functions of the stomach are usually completely restored, secretion of hydrochloric acid may remain in abeyance for many years, and necessitate its administration with the food. After extensive resections the amount of food taken at one time must be restricted. Immunity from recurrence for four years may be considered as constituting a permanent cure. The prognosis appears to be most favourable in cases of columnar carcinoma ; we have a patient under observation who has survived the radical operation for nine years. The radical operation is contra-indicated when the disease is associated with ascites ; when the tumour has infiltrated the colon, omentum, liver, pancreas, or abdominal wall; or whenTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 458 metastasis has occurred. Infection of the deeper glands, particularly those along the upper border of the pancreas, and in the retro-peritoneal tissue, also forbids excision. Under these circumstances the surgeon has to decide whether or not a palliative operation is calculated to relieve the symptoms. When the pylorus is obstructed, and the patient suffers from symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation, considerable relief is usually afforded by g astro-enter ostomy. The vomiting ceases, the nutrition improves, and for a time the patient may feel quite well. In some cases, however, no benefit follows the operation. In the majority of cases the patient succumbs to the primary disease in the course of a few months, although in some cases of undoubted cancer subjected to gastro-enterostomy the patient has survived as long as three and a half years. When the disease is too extensive even to permit of an anastomosis with the intestine, the highest loop of the jejunum may be brought to the edge of the wound and an opening made in it—jejunostomy—sufficient to admit a No. 10 soft rubber catheter through which the patient is fed. This operation holds out but little promise of relief and is rarely called for. In cancer of the cardia, the symptoms are greatly relieved and life may be prolonged by gastrostomy. Other tumours of the stomach, for example, myomata, adenomata, and sarcomata, are very rare, and are seldom diagnosed before being exposed by operation. Pyloric Obstruction of Infants.—This condition, probably congenital in origin, is due to an hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the pylorus. The pylorus appears as a solid cylinder about one inch in length, and about twice as thick as a normal pylorus; it is pale in colour, as hard as cartilage, and very sharply defined from the duodenum (Stiles). The lumen is greatly narrowed by an increase in thickness of the circular muscular coat, and when this contracts, it is completely closed by the projection of the mucous membrane in longitudinal folds. The affection is characterised by the onset, in the second or third week of life, of intractable vomiting, which is unattended by retching, and occurs within a few minutes of taking food. The vomited matter consists of unaltered food, mixed with mucus, but free of bile. When the condition has lasted for some time, peristaltic waves may be seen passing along the enlarged stomach from left to right, and a palpable tumour can sometimes be recognised in the position of the thickened pylorus. If the condition does not yield to medical treatment and an operation is called for, this should be performed before thePROLAPSE OF THE STOMACH. 459 strength of the child has reached the breaking point. The operative treatment consists in widening the pylorus by stretch- ing or pyloroplasty, or in making a new outlet for the stomach contents by gastro-enterostomy. Gastroptosis, or prolapse of the stomach, is a condition in which the pyloric portion of the stomach, either alone or along Fig. 118.—Tracing of prolapsed and dilated Stomach in a Neurasthenic Woman, aet. 37. with other abdominal viscera, sinks to a lower level than normal (Fig. 118). If the patient swallows a large quantity of water while in the erect posture, the stomach stands out prominently, and the lesser curvature and pylorus may be found to have descended as low as the umbilicus, while the greater curvature may reach the level of the pubes or the left iliac fossa ; in some cases the displacement is demonstrated more accurately by examination with the X-rays after introducing into the stomach an emulsion of bismuth subnitrate. The pancreas may sometimes be460 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. palpated as a transverse cord a little above the level of the umbilicus. The chief symptoms are epigastric pain—which is aggravated by standing and exercise, and is apparently due to stretching of the nerve plexuses of the stomach—and stagnation of the gastric contents; there is usually splashing on succussion after a prolonged fast, and other evidence of stasis, and the manifestations of neurasthenia are usually present. Relief may be afforded by the wearing of a supporting bandage, massage, attention to diet, and the occasional use of the stomach-tube. If these measures fail, the abdomen should be opened, and the gastro-hepatic omentum and gastro-phrenic ligament shortened by passing through them a series of silk sutures in such a way that, when they are tightened up, the stomach is raised to its normal level—gastropexy (Beyea’s operation). If the pylorus is stenosed or kinked, gastro- enterostomy may be indicated, but this should never be performed in patients in whom neurasthenia is the most prominent feature, as they rarely benefit from the operation and may be made worse. Dilatation of the Stomach—Gastrectasis (Fig. 119).—Dila- tation of the stomach has already been referred to in connection with pyloric stenosis, due to cicatricial contraction and to cancer. It may also result from external pressure on the pylorus or duodenum, for example, by tumours of the pancreas, gall- bladder, liver, or retro-peritoneal tissue. Further, the pylorus may be dragged upon and kinked by perigastric adhesions, especially those resulting from affections of the gall-bladder, or by a movable right kidney. In a limited number of cases there is no discoverable cause for the dilatation, and the condition is then regarded as a neuro-paresis. The treatment is directed towards the removal, by surgical measures or otherwise, of any discoverable cause. Failing this, or in addition to it, it may be necessary to drain the stomach by performing gastro-enterostomy, or the size of the organ may be reduced by gastroplication. This operation consists in making a series of horizontal folds or tucks in the anterior wall of the stomach by means of wide Lembert sutures passing from the lesser to the greater curvature. The sutures are of silk, and when tightened up they approximate the two curva- tures, and so diminish the capacity of the stomach (Bircher’s operation). Acute Post-operative Dilatation of the Stomach.—After abdominal operations, the muscular coat of the stomach may become paralysed, and the organ undergoes rapid dilatation soDILATATION OF THE STOMACH. 461 that it is unable to transmit its contents into the duodenum. The pulse becomes small and rapid without rise of temperature ; there is a prominent fulness in the epigastrium, the area of stomach resonance is greatly increased, and there is pain and persistent vomiting. If the condition does not yield to washing out the stomach, the question of performing gastrostomy should Fig. 119.—Tracing of dilated Stomach in relation to Parietes, from a case of Pyloric Stenosis. be considered. This is carried out under local amesthesia by Witzel’s method, and the stomach is then irrigated through the fistula until the fluid returns clear. Cardio-spasm is the name given to a condition in which marked difficulty in swallowing is associated with dilatation of the oesophagus. Mikulicz attributed the dysphagia to a spasm of the cardia ; Rosenstein believes that it depends on atony of the musculature of the gullet. It is differentiated from other conditions attended with462 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. difficulty in swallowing, by the large amount of food which is regurgitated from the dilated oesophagus, by the fact that thei’e is as much difficulty with fluids as with solids, that bougies can be passed on one occasion and not on another, by the appearances seen with the oesophagoscope, and by the flask-shaped shadow of the dilated gullet seen in X-ray photographs after an emulsion of subnitrate of bismuth has been swallowed. The treatment consists in stretching the circular muscle which surrounds the cardiac orifice. This is best done by passing into the stomach a bougie surrounded by an india- rubber tube, which is filled with water under pressure until the resistance of the muscle-fibres is overcome. The use of ordinary bougies is not recommended. The Duodenum. Duodenal Ulcer.—The duodenum, above the opening of the common duct of the liver and pancreas, is exposed to the same ulcer-producing causes as the stomach, and operative experience has shown that duodenal ulcer is a comparatively common disease (Mayo). The ulcer is nearly always solitary, and is situated most often within three-quarters of an inch of the pylorus, and on that aspect of the first part of the duodenum which looks directly outwards; its anatomical characters are similar to those of gastric ulcer. The sexes are affected in the proportion of about three males to one female, and the condition is most frequently met with between the ages of thirty and forty-five. The clinical features vary very widely in different persons. In many cases there is a history of indigestion, which differs little from that of gastric origin except that the discomfort occurs later, usually some two or three hours after food. In a certain proportion of cases, pain is a marked feature ■ as a rule, it is referred to the epigastrium and below the right costal margin, but the patient is sometimes unable to localise it; it occurs from two to three hours after meals, and we have observed cases in which the pain lasted the whole night. The patient may be altogether free from pain for several days and then have a severe paroxysm not unlike biliary colic. There is often a history that for many years the patient has had to be very careful about his diet, and that he has felt unable for work. In some cases the ulcer only causes symptoms when it bleeds, the blood appearing as a tarry material in the463 DUODENAL ULCER. stools (melaena), or in the vomit as coffee grounds or pure blood (haematemesis). As a rule there is nothing to be made out on examination, but in some cases, especially those in which adhesions have formed, there is tenderness below the right costal margin, and some rigidity of the right rectus. The diagnosis, in the absence of hsemorrhage, is nearly always difficult, and the differentiation from gall - stone affections, especially in women, is seldom made with certainty until the abdomen is opened. In men the symptoms may be closely simulated by those of lead colic. Treatment.—While the symptoms may be relieved by rest, suitable diet, and the application of blisters below the costal margin, there is always the risk of the ulcer persisting in a latent form and at some future time causing serious haemorrhage or leading to perforation. It is therefore advisable in the majority of cases of suspected duodenal ulcer to have recourse to operative interference, especially as the diagnosis may only be completed after the abdomen is opened. A vertical incision is made through the right rectus, and the stomach, duodenum, gall-bladder, and neighbouring parts are systematically examined. When there is an ulcer of the duo- denum, the overlying peritoneum shows a white opacity ; some- times it is puckered, and it may be indurated. In some cases, access to the duodenum is rendered difficult by the presence of adhesions between it and the colon, omentum, gall-bladder, and under surface of the liver. Gastro-enterostorny usually gives immediate, and apparently permanent relief from the symptoms ; the diversion of the acid chyme enabling the ulcer to heal. Excision of the ulcer does not appear to be necessary to bring about a cure, and is only practicable when the ulcer is small and easily accessible. Perforation of Duodenal TJlcer.—This resembles gastric per- foration in so many of its features that it is not necessary to describe them in detail. In duodenal perforation the pain and tenderness are most marked a little to the right of the epigastrium and below the right costal margin, and the pain may be reflected to the right shoulder. The board-like contraction and rigidity of the abdominal muscles is at first most marked below the right costal margin, and spreads rapidly downward towards the iliac fossa. A jerky or panting type of respiration, when present, is a characteristic feature. The diagnosis is to be made from diaphragmatic pleurisy, from gall-bladder affections, acute pancreatitis, and appendicitis. The most important feature to observe is the extension of theTHE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 464 rigidity and tenderness from below the costal margin to the iliac fossa. When there is doubt as to the diagnosis, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed. On opening the abdomen, either by a vertical incision through the right rectus, or by one parallel with the right costal margin, a turbid, brown- or orange-yellow fluid is found in the peritoneal cavity, and there may be also a small quantity of gas. The extravasation is often tinged with bile, and is usually neutral in reaction. It appears to be less irritating than that in gastric perforations ; the lymphy exudate is found chiefly in the region of the duodenum, but the fluid exudate is found down the right side and in the pelvis, the pouch of Douglas being usually full within an hour or two of the perforation. This distribution of the extravasation is characteristic of duodenal perforations, and appears to be due to the fact that the perforation occurs on that wall of the duodenem which looks directly outwards, so that the fluid is directed down the right side by the ascending meso- colon. The closure of the aperture is effected in the same way as in gastric perforation, but on account of the dilatation of the stomach and colon, and the depth of certain parts of the duodenum from the surface, there is usually greater difficulty in obtaining access to the perforation and in introducing the sutures. After the edges have been invaginated, a portion of the right border of the great omentum should be secured over the line of suture. If the lumen of the duodenum is narrowed as a result of the invagination, or if the closure of the perforation is not entirely satisfactory, a gastro-enterostomy must be performed. The purification of the peritoneum and the subsequent drainage are carried out on the same lines as in perforation of the stomach. If the perforation is not efficiently sealed, and in spite of a gastro-enterostomy having been performed, the contents of the duodenum escape from the wound in large quantity, saturating the dressings and causing partial digestion of the skin around the opening, provision must be made for the leakage by a large glass tube, provided with a rubber collar and flange, and connected with a suction apparatus. The fistula closes in a period varying from one to four weeks. Perforation of a duodenal ulcer into an area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity results in the formation of an abscess which may be localised around the duodenum or may spread upwards beneath the diaphragm constituting one form of sub- phrenic abscess.VOL. 11—30 465 CHAPTER XXVII. THE INTESTINES. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Operations on the intestine —Injuries: Contusion, rupture, wound — Intestinal obstruction— General facts; Pathology and morbid anatomy; General clinical features; Acute obstruction ; Chronic obstruction ; Chronic obstruction terminating acutely ; Differences between the features of obstruction in the small and large intestine — Conditions giving rise to ob- struction—Particular forms of obstruction : Strangulated hernia ; Internal hernia, varieties; Strangulation by bands and through abnormal apertures ; Adhesions, kinking, and matting of the bowel, and cicatricial contraction of the mesentery ; Volvulus ; Intussuscep- tion ; Impaction of gall-stones and other foreign bodies in the lumen of the bowel; Stenosis of the bowel: stricture, malformations and tumours of the bowel; Pressure of tumours outside the bowel; Fcecal accumulation. Other affections of the intestines : Embolism and thrombosis of the mesenteric blood-vessels ; Perforation of typhoid ulcer; Dysentery; Intractable colitis ; Chronic inflammatory thicken- ing of the colon; Tuberculosis; Actinomycosis; Intestinal fistulce ; Tumours ; Enteroptosis. Surgical Anatomy.—When the abdominal walls are reflected, and the great omentum displaced upwards, the small intestine is seen to be arranged in a series of coils or loops, the jejunal coils occupying the upper and left portion of the abdominal cavity, while the ileum lies below and to the right. Individual coils, however, are so liable to vary in position that the only certain means of identifying a particular part of the bowel is by tracing the intestine, either from the duodeno-jejunal junction above, or from the cscum below. There is an insensible transi- tion from jejunum to ileum, but if one of the upper coils of the jejunum is compared with one of the lower coils of ileum, the former is found to be larger in calibre and darker in colour, and its walls are thicker, because of the greater size and number of the valvulfe conniventes. In the lower part of the ileum the valvulse conniventes are small and widely separated, and the Peyer’s patches large and numerous. The duodenum is not visible from the front, being covered by the liver above and by the transverse colon below. Attention may be directed to some common variations in the position of certain parts of the large intestine. The transverse colon, for example, may hang down for a variable distance in front of the small intestine, sometimes as a V-shaped loop with its apex reaching as low as the symphysis pubis. The sigmoid flexure—or, as466 THE INTESTINES. it is now called, the pelvic colon—has a well-developed mesentery, and forms a large S- or omega-shaped coil which usually lies in the cavity of the pelvis. It may, however, be found in the abdomen proper, and sometimes even on the right side, in the neighbourhood of the caecum, or at a higher level, in the vicinity of the liver. The sigmoid colon serves as a receptacle in which the solid feces accumulate ; the rectum is normally empty except just before the act of defecation. The ileo- caacal valve dams back the contents of the ileum until the digestion and absorption which should take place in the ileum are completed ; it then relaxes and allows the contents to pass into the caecum. Fluids introduced into the rectum may traverse the whole length of the colon and pass through the valve into the ileum—an observation we have frequentlj’ made in cases of fistula in the small intestine. The separate bands of longitudinal muscular fibres and the appendices epiploic* constitute a certain means of distinguishing the large from the small intestine. Bacteriology.—Under normal conditions the number of bacteria in the upper portion of the intestine is comparatively small, but towards the lower end of the ileum the number is greatly increased, and below the ileo-caecal valve organisms are found in great number and variety. In the stomach the growth of bacteria is inhibited by the presence of free hydrochloric acid. In the small intestine the bile and other secretions appear to play an important part in preventing the development of bacteria. This regulation of bacterial growth is liable to be disturbed, especially in diseases which originate in the intestine, and the dis- turbance first shows its effects in the neighbourhood of the ileo-e*cal junction, for example, by the occurrence of inflammatory affections, such as appendicitis. The lower ileum is most liable to specific infections, such as those of tuberculosis and typhoid. While in a state of health the wall of the intestine possesses a considerable capacity of resisting the action of organisms ; when damaged, either directly by trauma, or in- directly through interference with its innervation or blood-supply, the organisms are able to invade and pass through the walls, setting up disease of the bowel itself, or of the peritoneum, the cellular tissue or the blood-vessels. The methods of examination in surgical affections of the intestines include inspection, palpation, and percussion of the abdomen, and digital examination of the rectum and vagina. Distension of the large bowel with air by means of a ball syringe and a rubber tube introduced into the rectum, or the introduction of fluid by means of a soft tube con- nected with a funnel, may be useful for diagnostic purposes, as for example in the differentiation of a tumour of the bowel from a tumour of an adjacent organ such as the kidney or stomach. The entire large intes- tine will hold on an average about three quarts of fluid. The position and form of the colon may also be demonstrated by injecting into the rectum an emulsion of two ounces of bismuth and eight ounces of mucilage, and observing the shadow with the X-rays. The patient should remain in the recumbent position for at least half an hour before the exposure is made, and after the examination the colon should be washed out. Operations on the Intestine. Enterotomy consists in making a temporary opening in the bowel to remove from the lumen some obstructing agent,467 OPERATIONS ON THE INTESTINE. such as a gall-stone, or to evacuate the contents of a dis- tended loop during an operation for obstruction. The open- ing is made in the long axis of the gut on the side farthest from the mesenteric attachment, and is closed by Lembert or Czerny-Lembert sutures, preferably inserted in such a way that the line of suture is at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. When the object is to evacuate the distended small intestine while operating for obstruction, the procedure is a little different. The selected coil is pulled out at the wound, and its contents having been displaced by pressure with the fingers two clamps are applied ; in the area between these a purse-string suture is inserted ; the bowel is then opened sufficiently to admit a rubber tube which is pushed in an upward direction for about one or two inches, the suture is pulled tight, and the clamps removed to allow of the contents escaping. When this is finished an assistant withdraws the tube, while the purse-string suture is tightened and tied, thus closing the opening. A few Lembert sutures are inserted to invaginate the edges of the peritoneum. The closure of such a wound, or of a perforation or rupture of the bowel, is spoken of as enterorraphy. Enterostomy consists in making a communication between the bowel and the surface of the abdomen. When the operation is performed to enable nourishment to be introduced directly into the intestine, for example, in certain cases of gastric cancer, the opening is made as high as possible in the jejunum—-jejun- ostomy. An incision is made through the left rectus, and the highest loop of jejunum is stitched to the parietal peritoneum ; the abdominal wound is closed except for a narrow canal that exposes one square centimetre of jejunum ; either at once or on the following day a soft rubber catheter is inserted and pushed down the bowel for three or four inches. When the object is to establish a fecal fistula, for example, in cases of obstruction of the bowels, the opening is made as low down as possible in the ileum—ileostomy. The loop of bowel selected is brought to the surface and stitched to the parietal peritoneum and transversalis fascia by a continuous serous suture. If the condition of the patient permit, the opening of the bowel should be delayed for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, to diminish the risk of infection of the peritoneal cavity, and to prevent the infective contents of the bowel coming in contact with the wound in the parietes. Before opening the bowel the skin should be smeared with vaseline to protect it from the irritant effects of the evacuations. If, on the other hand, the bowel must be opened at once, a purse-string suture is inserted, and within its area an incision is468 THE INTESTINES. made sufficient to admit a Paul’s tube; the suture is then tightened up so as to grasp the tube firmly and hold it in place. The term colotomy, or more correctly colostomy, is applied to an operation in which the colon is opened to establish an outlet for the faeces, this being known as an artificial anus. The operation is most often performed for cancer of the rectum. A loop of colon—preferably the pelvic colon—is pulled out, its mesentery transfixed with a strand of gauze or a glass rod, the bowel fixed by a few sutures passed through its serous coat or its mesentery, and the parietal peritoneum. If possible, the opening of the bowel should be postponed for a few days to enable adhesions to form, and so shut off the peritoneal cavity. A sheet of green protective, or gauze smeared with vaseline, should be applied next the bowel. The opening in the colon is best made with the thermo-cautery—the bowel being insensitive no the affected portion cut across; the mesentery is divided, and its blood-vessels clamped and ligatured. This operation when performed on the large intestine is known as colectomy. The means taken to re-establish the continuity of the tube vary with the condition for which the resection is performed, and the length and relations of the portions of bowel implicated. End-to-end suture (Fig. 120) is the method of choice. The divided ends are brought into apposition, and a continuous suture is introduced through all the coats to approximate the adjacent edges. Over this a continuous Lembert suture is made to bring together the serous surfaces. Lateral implantation (Fig. 121) consists in occluding one end of the divided bowel and stitching the other end to an opening made in the side of the occluded segment. Doyen’s method of occluding the bowel is simple, rapid, and efficient. The divided end is compressed by powerful forceps (enterotribe), and in the constriction ring thus formed a silk ligature is tied. The stump beyond the ligature is trimmed with scissors and cauterised with the actual cautery, and is then anaesthetic is called for— and a Paul’s tube is fixed in the opening by a purse- string suture. Fig. 120.—Encl-to-End Suture nf Small Intestine. Enterectomy consists in excising a segment of the bowel, for example, for tumour, gangrene, or in- jury. The gut is clamped above and below the seg- ment to be resected, andOPERATIONS ON THE INTESTINE. 469 in vaginated into the lumen 1 by means of a purse-string suture. Both ends of the divided bowel ’ may be thus occluded and a lateral junction made between them. Entero-anastomosis, Lateral Anastom- osis or “ Short-Circuiting—By lateral anastomosis or “ short-circuiting ” of the t . intestine is understood the establishing of Implantation. a communication between the bowel above an irremovable obstruction and that below it. Such an anastomosis may be the only possible means of giving re- lief in a case of irre- movable growth, or it may only be a tem- porary measure to tide the patient over an obstruction, and pre- pare the way for re- section of the growth later. It is performed Fig. 123.—Short Cir- cuiting of Intestine- — Ileo - colostomy. «, tumour of caecum. on the same lines as gastro-enterostomy. In a case of malignant growth, portions of bowel well beyond the possible limits of the disease should be selected for anastomosis, and they should permit of ready apposition with- out tension. The loops of bowel selected are drawn out of the wound,clamped, and surrounded with gauze. A continuous sero - muscular suture is introduced, fixing the loops of bowel together along a line from two to three inches in length on the side of the intestine opposite the mesentery ; the bow7el is now opened on either side of this line of suture by an incisionTHE INTESTINES. 470 about two inches long. The lumen of each portion of bowel having been cleansed, a suture is introduced through all the coats and is continued all round until the point of starting is reached. After completion of this suture, the clamps are removed, the gauze changed, and the parts cleansed, and the original sero- muscular stitch is now completed so as to invaginate the edges of peritoneum. If one of the segments of bowel to be anastom- osed is so fixed by a short mesentery or by adhesions that it cannot be drawn outside the abdomen, the anastomosis will be more readily carried out with the aid of a Murphy’s button. Exclusion of the Intestine.—When an anastomosis has been made as described above, the length of intestine which inter- venes is said to be “ partially excluded.” When the intestine is divided at two points, and the proximal end of the upper segment united to the distal end of the lower segment, the intervening portion is said to be “ completely excluded.” In complete exclu- sion, one end of the excluded portion must be brought to the surface and left open. Complete exclusion has been chiefly per- formed in tuberculous or malignant disease of the caecum and colon, and in cases in which fistulae have formed between the small intestine and the bladder or vagina. The operation of enteroplasty may be performed for limited cicatricial stricture of the intestine. It is carried out on the same lines as pyloroplasty (p. 440). Enter opexy consists in fixing a portion of intestine to the abdominal wall. It has been chiefly performed on the pelvic colon (colopexy) in cases of chronic prolapse of the rectum. Injuries of the Intestine. — The small intestine may be injured by a blow, a kick, or a crush, the most common lesions being contusion and rupture, and the parts of intestine most frequently implicated are the duodeno-jejunal junction and the more centrally placed coils of jejunum and ileum. In contusions and in small ruptures, if the bowel is empty at the moment, adhesions may form with adjacent coils or with omentum, and leakage thus be averted ; but if the bowel is widely torn, and especially if it is full at the time, peritonitis inevitably ensues. There is a third possibility: a contused portion of bowel may undergo necrosis later, giving rise to peritonitis some days after the injury. The clinical features and diagnosis have already been con- sidered with abdominal injuries in general (p. 346). If there is any reason to suspect a rupture of the intestine, an exploratory operation should be performed without delay. The incision is made in the middle line or to one or other side of it; when the471 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION-ILEUS. peritoneum is opened there may be an escape of blood-stained faecal fluid. If there is abundant bleeding, a search should be made for a rent or rents in the mesentery; the bleeding vessels should be tied and the edges of the rent brought together by suture. The intestine is then examined methodically, beginning at the caecum and working upwards along the small intestine. If a rent is discovered, the affected coil is wrapped in moist gauze and held aside while the search is continued. Small ruptures are closed by a double tier of sutures; in larger tears with bruising of the edges, it is safer to resect the loop of bowel. In the rare cases in which the intestine is torn from its mesentery, the separated portion of bowel should be resected. In bullet wounds of the abdomen perforation of the bowel is usually multiple (vol. i. p. 230). Subcutaneous injuries of the large intestine usually result from crushing forms of violence. The general symptoms of rupture of the colon are indistinguishable from those of rupture of the small intestine, but extravasation may be delayed, and the occurrence of peritonitis thereby be deferred, owing to the less active peristalsis and the more solid consistence of the contents. Rupture of the colon behind the peritoneum is usually attended with emphysema in one or other flank, and results in the gradual onset of cellulitis and abscess, which may rupture externally and be followed by faecal fistula, or the infection may spread to the peritoneum and cause peritonitis. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in the small intestine. Intestinal Obstruction—Ileus. The clinical term “ obstruction of the bowels ” implies a com- bination of symptoms of which the most obvious are cessation of the passage of intestinal contents, abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, and distension of the abdomen. It is always a serious condition, and endangers life. In acute cases the initial symptoms—pain, collapse, and vomiting—are due to the pro- found impression made upon the sensory nerves of the abdomen, and are those of abdominal shock, to which the term “peri- tonism ” has been applied by Gubler. They are not peculiar to intestinal obstruction, but attend upon all acute abdominal affections. The later symptoms—collapse and failure of the circulation—are due not merely to occlusion of the lumen of the intestine, but also to the absorption of poisonous material from472 THE INTESTINES. the stagnating contents of the bowel above the seat of obstruc- tion. In other words, when death results, it is from auto- intoxication, and if a sufficient quantity of poison has been absorbed, death takes place whether the obstruction is relieved or not. Hence the surgical treatment of intestinal obstruction should be undertaken before the patient has absorbed a fatal dose, and in addition to relieving the actual cause of the ob- struction, it is necessary to secure the emptying of the bowel above the block, and thus prevent further septic absorption. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.— When the occlusion is complete and suddenly induced, as when the intestine is snared by a band, the changes are very similar to those seen in strangulated hernia. The intestine below the obstruction is pale, contracted, and empty, while that above is usually distended with gas and fluid, and its mucous membrane is swollen and injected, and may show haemorrhages and superficial erosions. The surface epithelium is shed, and organisms are thus enabled to pass through the wall. The accumulation of gas is due to bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel, and the resulting distension may be so great that, when the abdomen is opened, the affected coils of bowel are projected from the wound, and when thus deprived of support the peritoneal coat may give way, and wide rents form on the surface opposite the mesenteric attachment. Sometimes the erosions on the mucous membrane become deepened into minute, sharply circumscribed, necrotic ulcers—first described by Kocher—which by extending through the whole thickness of the wall may eventually lead to perfora- tion. Perforation is liable to occur during an operation for obstruction when the affected coils are being separated from one another by the exploring fingers, or are allowed to escape from the abdomen, and we have seen cases in which there were several minute perforations like pinholes, through which the fluid contents escaped under considerable pressure. When the obstruction is incomplete and gradually induced, as in the case of cicatricial stricture, the lumen of the bowel is narrowed, but not occluded, and the contents pass with difficulty. The bowel above is not merely distended, but its walls are hyper- trophied as the result of persistent and prolonged efforts to drive the contents through the narrowed segment of the gut. The hypertrophy is most marked in the case of the small intestine, its coats becoming thicker and firmer, chiefly from increase in the circular muscular fibres. In the case of the large intestine distension is more prominent than hypertrophy, and the colon may attain enormous dimensions—as great as aACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 473 foot in diameter (Eig. 134). The mucous membrane is in a condition of chronic catarrh, and this may be associated with ulceration—partly mechanical as a result of the pressure of faecal masses, but chiefly bacterial in origin and associated with decomposition of the contents. Sometimes the ulceration extends through the Avail of the bowel, and results in perforation Fig. 124.—Tracing of Dilated Colon, result of malignant Stricture ; taken after death. either into the peritoneal cavity or into the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue. Clinical Features.—Following the classical description of Treves, we may group cases of intestinal obstruction into three classes : (1) cases of acute obstruction ; (2) cases of chronic ob- struction ; and (3) cases in which symptoms of acute obstruction supervene on those which characterise the chronic form. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—The onset is sudden, and as a rule no exciting cause is apparent. The patient is seized withTHE INTESTINES. 474 severe abdominal pain, which is usually referred to the region of the umbilicus, sometimes to the seat of the obstruction. He may be “ doubled up ” by the pain, and roll in anguish on the door. The pain is of a griping character, and is usually constant, with repeated exacerbations. At first there is little if any tenderness of the abdomen. In the more severe cases the patient rapidly becomes collapsed, and passes into a state of great depression, with pallor, sunken eyes, a rapid, feeble pulse, a cold sweat over the face, and sighing respiration. Vomiting appears early, and is one of the most distressing and persistent symptoms. The ejected matter is at first composed of the contents of the stomach, later it becomes bilious, and still later brownish or yellowish and offensive; finally, it becomes ster- cox-aceous. The higher up the intestine the obstruction is, the earlier and more persistent is the vomiting. Stercoraceous vomiting is most often met with in obstruction of the small intestine, and is uncommon in obstruction of the colon. The pain in acute obstruction depends on several factors. It is chiedy the result of irregular and crampdike peristaltic move- ments excited in the intestine above the seat of obstruction. The recurrent exacerbations of pain or colic are due to the passage along the intestine of periodic peristaltic waves that “hurl themselves, as it were, against the obstruction.” This variety of pain is aggravated by any handling of the abdomen, and is markedly relieved by opium. In the later stages pain may be due to the great distension of the gut causing traction on the sensitive parietal peritoneum, or to the onset of peritonitis. Neither faecal matter nor datus is passed by the rectum. The abdomen becomes distended, particularly when the obstruc- tion is in the lower reaches of the bowel, but when the obstruction is high up in the jejunum distension may be absent ; the respiration is chiedy thoracic, although the abdominal muscles are not rigidly contracted as in peritonitis. If the obstruction is not relieved, the temperature becomes sub-normal, the pulse small and rapid, the tongue dry and brown, and there is intense thirst; the face is drawn and anxious, and the eyes sunken. As the distension increases, the abdomen becomes tender on palpation. The patient becomes exhausted, and dies with symptoms of septic intoxication like those which mark the termination of acute peritonitis. He usually remains conscious to the last, and often fails to realise the gravity of his condition. Vomiting and thirst remain the most prominent and distressing symptoms. Diagnosis.—As the initial symptoms of acute obstruction—475 ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. severe pain in the abdomen attended with vomiting — are common to many acute abdominal conditions, it is often difficult to make a diagnosis in the early stages. Among the conditions with which, at the onset, acute obstruction is most liable to be mistaken are: appendicitis; perforation of a gastric ulcer, a pyosalpinx or an ectopic gestation; acute pancreatitis; and obstruction of the mesenteric blood-vessels. The different forms of colic—biliary, renal, and intestinal—also simulate the onset of obstruction. These latter conditions, however, tend to pass off within an hour or two, and are more amenable than the others to medical treatment. In any of these conditions the initial pain may be so severe as to call for the use of opium, but this drug should be withheld as long as possible, and no more than is necessary to alleviate the suffering should be given. If a single moderate dose fails to give relief, the condition is probably not of the nature of a colic, and no more opium should be given until a diagnosis has been arrived at and arrangements have been made for operation, if this is considered necessary. When the symptoms are progressive and it is impossible to arrive at a diagnosis, an exploratory laparotomy should be per- formed with as little delay as possible. Exploratory Laparotomy. — The stomach should first be washed out, and the bladder emptied, by the use of the catheter, if necessary. Unless there are decided indications for making the incision elsewhere, the abdomen is opened at or near the middle line below the umbilicus. Two or three fingers are introduced into the abdominal cavity to discover the seat and nature of the obstruction. The caecum should first be examined, because if it is found to be distended, this indicates that the block is in the large intestine, while if it is empty the obstruc- tion is in the small intestine. The pelvis and the inner aspect of the hernial openings are then explored, and if no obstructing lesion is found there, search should be made for any fixed loop of small intestine, or for a loop of collapsed and empty bowel which can then be traced to the lesion. It is only if these measures fail that recourse should be had to eventration, the distended bowel being withdrawn from the wound, and received in a towel wrung out of hot saline solution, outside of which is a sterilised rubber sheet. When the obstructed loop is identified it is relieved, the measures varying according to its nature, and the distended bowel above is then emptied of its contents by enterostomy (p. 467), the bowel returned within the abdomen, and the wound closed.476 THE INTESTINES. If the condition of the patient is so critical that a thorough exploration to discover the cause of the obstruction is not per- missible, the operation is limited to establishing a faecal fistula to empty the distended bowel above the block. The most dis- tended coil of intestine that presents at the wound is stitched to the edges of the parietal peritoneum by a continuous serous suture and opened, a Paul’s or other tube being introduced to drain away the intestinal contents without soiling the wound. After the patient has got over the immediate risks, if the symptoms point to a continuance of a mechanical block, this must be dealt with at a second operation; if, on the other hand, it can be shown that the bowel is pervious beyond the artificial opening, the fistula may be closed. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—Chronic obstruction of the bowels develops insidiously. The symptoms appear gradually, and the progress of the malady is irregular and intermittent. Attacks of abdominal pain may follow the ingestion of food, and at first they are ascribed to indigestion and attract little notice; in time, however, they become frequent and more severe, and are attended with occasional vomiting and a more or less constant uneasiness within the abdomen. There is a history of increas- ing difficulty in getting the bowels to move; opening medicines are efficacious in the early stages, later they act with less and less effect, and finally only cause sickness and griping pains. There is frequently a history of the occasional passage of a small quantity of faecal matter mixed with a considerable quantity of mucus—-described by the patient as diarrhoea—but this is. a result of catarrh of the bowel caused by retained faecal matter above the obstruction, and does not result in emptying the bowel. It is chiefly met with when the obstruction is seated low down in the colon. Except during these attacks of pain and “ diarrhoea,” the patient may feel fairly well and be able to go about. In the majority of cases, as the bowel becomes dis- tended and hypertrophied above the seat of obstruction, the abdomen becomes more and more prominent, and there are frequent rumbling and gurgling sounds in the belly—“stenosis- noises.” On palpation exaggerated peristaltic movements may be recognised, the bowel becoming firm and rigid under the examining fingers, the patient at the same time complaining of colicky pain. In thin subjects individual coils of bowel may be seen to stand out prominently, and when these belong to the small intestine they present an arrangement described as the “organ-pipe” or “ladder” pattern (Fig. 125). When the large intestine is distended, the transverse colon and sigmoid flexure areFig. 125.— “Ladder pattern” in case of Obstruction at ileo-csecal value. (Dr. G. A. Gibson's case.) ting and decomposing contents of his intestine. Finally, death takes place from exhaustion, or from some complication such as perforation of the bowel and peritonitis. Chronic Obstruction terminating acutely.—In a consider- able proportion of cases of chronic obstruction, acute symptoms supervene from the narrowed bowel suddenly becoming completely blocked. This may be due to impaction of fsecal matter, or to kinking or torsion of the affected segment of the gut brought about by rapid gaseous distension, by sudden change of attitude, CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION. 477 the segments most readily identified from their situation and their characteristic contour, but they do not show peristaltic move- ments. If the obstruction is unrelieved, the symptoms become more pronounced and continuous : the mouth is foul and the breath most offensive; the patient loses flesh, and becomes cachectic from absorption of poisonous material from the stagna-478 THE INTESTINES. by congestion of the mucous membrane of the stenosed portion occluding the lumen, or by the use of purgative medicines. In not a few instances attention is first called to a malignant stricture of the intestine by the onset of acute obstruction, the patient having previously complained only of vague colicky pains and constipation. Diagnosis of the Site of Obstruction.—There are no distinc- tions between obstruction situated in the small and in the large intestine that may be considered as absolute and invariable, because the clinical features depend more upon the nature of the occlusion than upon its situation (Treves). In obstruction of the small intestine vomiting appears earlier, is more persistent and distressing, and the vomited matter is more copious and sooner becomes stercoraceous. In the large intestine, on the other hand, vomiting is often late in appearing, is intermittent and scanty, and may even be absent. Shock is most marked in acute obstruction of the small intestine. Meteorism, as expressed by general distension of the abdomen, is as a rule more pronounced the lower in the intestine the obstruction is situated. Although it is by no means so easy to identify visibly dilated coils of intestine as might be supposed, it is sometimes possible from their situation and outline to draw a reliable inference • the transverse colon and sigmoid flexure may, for example, be recognised by their position, the small intestine by the ladder pattern of the abdomen. It is not safe to infer from the presence of visible moving coils of small intestine that the obstruction is situated in the small gut; we have observed such peristalsis in cases of malignant stricture beyond the trans- verse colon. Information obtained by estimating the amount of fluid that can be introduced by the rectum may prove misleading. Causes of Intestinal Obstruction. Strangulated hernia is the commonest cause of acute intestinal obstruction, and in all cases presenting the symptoms above described a systematic examination of the hernial openings accessible to the fingers should be made. It is not uncommon for a patient to be ignorant of the existence of a hernia, especially when of small size and situated in the femoral or in the obturator region. Cases are occasionally met with in which a hernia is present, and yet there is some doubt as to whether or not it is the cause of obstruction; in such cases it is usually advisable to explore the hernia by operation before proceeding to open the abdomen.CAUSES OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 479 Internal Hernise.—Several varieties of hernia that do not give rise to visible swelling externally are met with. In diaphragmatic hernia a portion of the abdominal contents, usually the stomach or colon, is thrust into the thorax through an opening in the diaphragm. The opening may be congenital or may result from rupture or wound of the diaphragm; in either case it is usually situated on the left side (Fig. 126). The condition is rarely diagnosed by clinical methods. It is only remediable* by operative mea- sures, and the thoracic route affords the best access. Duodenal Hernia : there are several varieties of hernia arising in the vicinity of the duodeno- jejunal junction, the gut enter- ing one or other of the many fossae to be found in this region. The gut as it enters the fossa pushes the peritoneal lining in front of it, so as to form a sac, which lies behind the posterior parietal peritoneum. The usual contents are small intestine, and when they are strangulated the constriction is produced by the margins of the orifice of the sac. It is seldom diagnosed except by an exploratory laparotomy. The only treatment is by opera- tion, the contents being reduced and the neck of the sac obliter- ated. In hernia into the foramen of Winslow a portion of the intes- tine passes through the foramen into the lesser sac of peritoneum. In inter-sigmoid hernia the bowel is thrust into the inter-sigmoid fossa, which is a funnel-shaped depression between the layers of the pelvic meso-colon. In peri-ccecal hernia the bowel is thrust into one or other of the pouches met with in the region of the Fig. 126. — Diaphragmatic Hernia. The intestines, with the stomach and spleen, occupy the left pleural cavity. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.) ileo-ctecal junction. Strangulation by Bands or through Abnormal Apertures.—480 THE INTESTINES. The commonest form of band is a stretched adhesion between two peritoneal surfaces, one attachment being nearly always to the mesentery, frequently over a diseased mesenteric gland, while the other is to the parietal peritoneum, to another part of the mesentery, or to one of the abdominal or pelvic viscera. Bands vary greatly in length, and those that result from antecedent peritonitis are frequently multiple. An adherent portion of the lower border of the great omentum may be moulded into a band by the dragging and rolling move- ments of the bowels; an omental band frequently develops in relation to a femoral hernia, and its parietal attachment is usually in the vicinity of the femoral opening. When the free end of a MecJcel’s diverticulum is attached to the anterior abdominal wall in the region of the umbilicus, or forms an attachment to the mesentry or to an adjacent viscus, the diverticulum may act as a band. Other structures may constitute bands—for ex- ample, a vermiform appendix, which has become adherent by its tip to the mesen- tery of the ileum, an adherent Fallopian tube, an elongated epiploic appendage, or the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. A band may bring about strangulation either by one or more coils of intestine passing underneath it — as beneath a shallow and narrow arch (Fig. 127); or by the bowel being snared and constricted by a noose formed by the band itself. The first is the more common mode, and is associated with a short band; the latter is rare, and requires a long and loose band. In either case the loop of bowel engaged is apt to undergo rotation, and this may be the chief factor in the actual obstruction of the gut. Probably there are other factors concerned, such as exaggerated peristalsis, venous congestion and swelling of the intestine, and the development of gas in the strangulated loop of bowel. The constriction may be so tight that the obstruction is complete immediately the bowel becomes engaged ; or it may only become tight enough to strangulate the bowel after the secondary factors have come into play. Obstruction by a band usually occurs in the lower part of the abdomen because of the frequency with which adhesions and bands form in relation to appendicitis, pelvic peritonitis, hernial openings, or from a Meckel’s diverticulum. Fig. 127.—Strangulation of Small Intestine by diverticulum of Small Intestine. (Anatomical Museum, Uni- versity of Edinburgh.)481 STRANGULATION BY BANDS. Owing to its free mobility and its capacity for forming a knuckle or loop, the small intestine is almost exclusively implicated, and the lower portion of the ileum is the segment most often in- volved. The lesion is usually situated in the lower part of the abdomen because of the frequency with which adhesions and bands form in relation to appendicitis, pelvic peritonitis, and hernial openings, or from a Meckel’s diverticulum. Bands result- ing from tuberculous peritonitis and disease of the mesenteric glands are most frequently situated in the umbilical region. The average length of the strangulated loop is about fifteen inches, and the changes which take place in it are precisely the same as those already described as occurring in strangulated hernia. The peritoneal exudation which takes place into the abdominal cavity is often copious, and in acute cases is blood-stained. Smooth, rounded or slit-like ajiertures, through which a knuckle of bowel may pass and become strangulated, are occasionally met with, chiefly in the mesentery of the lower ileum. These openings may be congenital, or may result from a tear, or from neglect, to stitch up the mesentery after an operation for resection of the bowel. The clinical features associated with strangulation by bands or through apertures closely resemble those of strangulated hernia. Although there is no age limit, the patients are usually between the ages of twenty and forty, and there is often a history of a previous attack of peritonitis or of some other con- dition likely to lead to the formation of adhesions. In the majority of cases the onset of obstruction is sudden and acute, and pain, vomiting, and collapse are the prominent features. Less frequently there is a history of abdominal discomfort or pain, or a previous threatening of obstruction. In these cases, the patient has usually had some pain with trifling vomiting and incomplete constipation for some days before the develop- ment of signs of acute strangulation. On examining the abdomen it is seldom possible to detect any localised swelling caused by the strangulated loop of bowel, or to recognise dulness from effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity. Nothing is found as a rule on rectal examination, but in several of our own cases there has been a considerable discharge of blood by the rectum. In this, as in many other forms of intestinal obstruction, a definite diagnosis cannot be made until the abdomen is opened. If, on opening the abdomen, a blood-stained fluid escapes, the inference is that it is a band or a volvulus. If the strangulated bowel is not within easy reach of the wound in the middle line, it can usually be discovered by tracing any loop of collapsed VOL. II—31482 THE INTESTINES. bowel that is found, or by sweeping the fingers round the brim of the pelvis. If a band is found, it may be torn through or divided between ligatures; if a Meckel’s diverticulum or a vermiform appendix is acting as a band, it should be resected. If the bowel is strangulated through an abnormal opening, it must be disengaged, and to admit of this it may be necessary to enlarge the opening, bearing in mind, however, the risk of wounding the mesenteric blood-vessels. If the bowel is viable, the operation is completed by closing the abdomen. If the bowel is not viable or is already gangrenous, it must either be resected then and there, or brought outside the wound and opened, the resection being postponed for a few days until the conditions are more favourable. We have met with cases of strangulation by a band in which the extent . of intestine involved was so great that the initial shock was not recovered from, and death took place within a few hours. Obstruction by Adhesions, Kinking, or Matting of the Bowel, or by Cicatricial Contraction of the Mesentery.— This group includes cases in which the obstruction results directly or indirectly from peritoneal adhesions due to antecedent traumatism or inflammation. The mere fixation of a segment of bowel to the abdominal wall by an adhesion interferes with the passage of its contents; if, in addition to being fixed, the bowel is also bent or kinked, it readily becomes occluded. The symptoms vary widely ; when the bowel is suddenly kinked they are those of acute obstruction, such as result from strangulation by a band ; in the absence of kinking they simulate those of chronic and incomplete obstruction associated with stricture. The obstruction may involve either the small or the large intestine. Matting by adhesions may affect only two adjacent coils, or several coils may be bound together into a confused mass. This is most often met with in cases of disease of the mesenteric glands or of tuberculous peritonitis. The symptoms may come on suddenly, but are usually gradual and progressive, or inter- mittent, culminating in complete stoppage. Sometimes the matted coils form a tumour-like swelling, which if situated in the pelvis may be felt from the rectum. In this group may also be included cases in which the bowel is narrowed as a result of cicatricial shrinking of its own mesentery, subsequent to inflammation associated with disease in the mesenteric glands or antecedent disease in the appendix. The bowel affected is usually the lower end of the ileum, the caecum, and the ascending colon. The peritoneal investment of the mesentery is thickened, fibrous, and opaque, and is soVOLVULUS. 483 contracted as to interfere with peristalsis. The clinical features resemble to a certain extent those produced by stricture of the bowel. There is frequently a history of antecedent trouble in the abdomen and of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move. There are sudden attacks of pain in the belly and vomiting, which subside and recur without going on to actual obstruction. Distended coils of bowel may exhibit peristaltic movements. In these forms of obstruction it is rarely possible to make an accurate diagnosis until the abdomen is opened. Limited adhesions should be separated. When there is extensive matting an anastomosis should be established between the bowel above and below the obstruction, or a temporary opening—enterqgtomy —may be made in the bowel above. Although the conditions within the abdomen may look far from promising, such cases, especially those of tuberculous origin, usually do remarkably well. In cases of cicatricial contraction of the mesentery the thickened peritoneum is divided parallel with the long axis of the bowel, and sutured again at right angles to this. Volvulus.—This term refers to a twisting or rotation of a segment of bowel around its mesenteric axis. Volvulus most commonly affects the sigmoid flexure, chiefly because of the length of its mesentery. In some cases the peritoneal investment of the meso-sigmoid is thickened and contracted so that the two ends of the loop are unduly approximated. The usual ante- cedent is chronic constipation and unequal loading of the loop. The actual twist is brought about by irregular peristalsis, by alterations in the position of the body, or by the movement of adjacent coils of bowel or other organs. The rotation usually amounts to a half or a whole circle ; but in rare cases the bowel is twisted two or three times on its mesenteric axis. The ends of the loop are occluded by their pressure on one another, and the loop itself becomes engorged with blood and filled with gas, and is so distended that it may reach to the umbilicus, or even into the right hypochondrium, lying in front of the small intestine. Peritonitis develops early in relation to the affected loop and spreads thence by continuity. The congestion of the loop becomes more and more marked, the walls become dark red or black, are infiltrated with blood, and tear readily, and, if the patient lives long enough, they present irregular areas of gangrene. The ascending colon and ccecum, when provided with a long mesentery, are also subject to volvulus. The rotated caecum may come to lie in any part of the abdomen, but is most commonlyTHE INTESTINES. 484 found in the left hypochondrium, the rotation varying in direction and extent. Volvulus may also affect a single loop of small intestine, especially as a complication of strangulation by a band, or it may affect the greater part of the ileum. The rotation is usually in the direction of the hands of a watch, and amounts to one com- plete turn or more. The morbid changes are the same as in the sigmoid, and there is usually blood-stained fluid in the abdomen. Clinical Features.—Volvulus of the sigmoid is most often met with in men between forty and sixty. The onset is usually sudden; there is severe pain with exacerbations, referred to the region of the umbilicus, or less frequently to the left iliac fossa. Vomiting is not a prominent feature and may be entirely absent or its occurrence may be delayed. Collapse is not so marked as in acute strangulation of the small intestine. The abdominal walls soon become rigid, partly from distension, and partly from the onset of local peritonitis. As peritonitis commencing in the twisted loop is very constant, tenderness is developed in the first instance over the gut affected, and then over the entire abdomen. Distension of the abdomen appears early, and may attain con- siderable proportions; it may be localised at first, appearing as a rounded elevation in the left segment of the umbilical region, but it very soon becomes general. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen; when the twisted loop of bowel is discovered, as much of it as possible is brought out at the wound and inspected. If greatly distended, it should be opened at once and emptied, and if the bowel seems viable after the twist has been undone, the opening is closed and the bowel returned within the abdomen. If the twisted bowel cannot be undone, or if the bowel is not viable, it must either be resected at once or the bowel is drawn well out of the wound and an artificial anus established above the seat of the volvulus, the affected loop being resected later when the patient has got over the immediate risks. In view of the possibility of relapse of the volvulus, the mesocolon may be stitched to the parietal peritoneum—colopexy. When an artificial anus has been temporarily established, it gives rise to adhesions which prevent recurrence. Intussusception.—This is one of the commonest forms of intestinal obstruction, and may be defined as the invagination of one part of the intestine into the lumen of the immediately adjoining part. An intussusception forms a solid, sausage-shaped tumour composed of three concentrically arranged tubes of bowel which are differentiated as follows : an external, known as theINTUSSUSCEPTION. 485 sheath, receiving tube, or intussuscipiens; an internal, known as the entering tube; and a middle, known as the returning tube. The internal and middle together constitute the intussusception. The etiology of intussusception has been the subject of much con- troversy. The view most commonly held is that while a segment of gut is in a condition of spasmodic contraction, the flaccid gut below is drawn up over it by a contraction of the longitudinal muscular fibres. Once the invag- ination has commenced, its increase is due to ex- aggerated peristalsis forc- ing the intussusceptum further along the bowel, as if it were a foreign body. Clinical ex- perience supports this as- sociation of intussuscep- tion with disturbance of the normal peristaltic movement; for example, its following on the taking of indigestible food, and upon attacks of chronic diarrhoea in children in whom the bowel is excep- tionally irritable. Morbid Anatomy.— As a type of intussuscep- tion we shall take the ileo- ccecal form as it occurs in children, in which the ileum and caecum are in- vaginated into the colon and the ileo-caecal valve forms the apex of the intruding portion. Once the invagination has commenced, it increases at the expense of the receiving tube, the apex remaining the same and folding more and more of the sheath over it as it passes down. This variety often attains considerable dimensions, and, in infants, the apex of the intussusceptum may traverse the whole length of the colon and actually protrude at the anus. The frequency of intussusception at the ileo-ctecal junction is due partly to the Fia. 128.—Ileo-CEecal Intussusception. The ensheatliing colon has been laid open. (Museum Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)486 THE INTESTINES. difference in size, mobility, and activity of the ileum and caecum respectively, and partly to the rigid nature and sphincter-like Sheath Apex Returnin tube Transverse colon Fig. 129.—Diagram of Intussusception. action of compared the ileo-caecal valve. The ileo-caecal orifice may be to the anal orifice, and intussusception in the region of the valve to prolapse of the rectum (Leichtenstern). The angle at which the ileum enters the caecum varies considerably in different persons. When the last few inches of ileum incline up- wards, forming an obtuse angle with the caecum, a prolapse of the ileo-caecal valve into the colon would be directed upwards, and would lie in such an attitude that the peristalsis of the colon would tend to increase the tumour by drawing it upwards towards the hepatic flexure. If, on the other hand, the last few inches of Returning tube Sheatli- Fig. 130.—Cross section of Intussusception. Ciecum Entering tube 'MesenteryINTUSSUSCEPTION. 487 ileum descend so as to form an acute angle with the caecum, any prolapse of the lumen into the large bowel would point down- wards, and the effect of peristalsis would be to reduce the commencing invagination by pushing it up and thus prevent the formation of an intussusception. As the terminal coils of ileum descend into the pelvis about the end of the fourth month, the lower end of the ileum must ascend to its termination in the caecum ; it is during the months following the date when this descent is known to take place that the majority of acute infantile intussusceptions are met with. For the occurrence of intussusception the colon must be considerably larger than the ileum and must also be unduly movable, so that it readily allows itself to be invaginated once the process is begun. In the process of invagination the bowel is accompanied by its mesentery, which is compressed and closely packed between the entering and returning tubes (Fig. 129), and as the intussusception increases, the contraction exerted through the mesentery draws the tumour towards the posterior abdominal wall, while at the same time it causes it to become curved, the concavity of the curve being towards the mesenteric attachment. The compression of the vessels of the mesentery, and especially of its veins, results in venous engorgement and swelling of the invaginated bowel; the engorgement commencing first and being most marked at the apex and in the middle tube. The engorge- ment is attended with hemorrhage into the coats of the bowel and from the mucous surfaces. Blood thus escapes into the bowel below and is passed by the rectum mixed with mucus. The actual obstruction is due to the lumen being tilled up by the reduplicated and swollen tubes of bowel. After a variable period the intussusception becomes irreducible. This may be due to the swelling of the invaginated portion, the apex especially being often swollen into a large knob ; or to the formation of adhesions fixing together the opposed serous surfaces of the inner and middle tubes, this also being most commonly observed towards the apex. Thus it may happen that the whole intussusception can be readily reduced with the exception of the last few inches. In severe and advanced cases the interference with the nutrition of the bowel is followed by bacterial invasion of its coats, and this may, as in strangulated hernia, result in peritonitis or in gangrene, or in a combination of these con- ditions. Gangrene is most frequent and most extensive in the acute form, and usually appears first in the middle tube. The whole intussusceptum may become gangrenous, and may, after separation at the neck of the tumour, be discharged by theTHE INTESTINES. 488 rectum as a blackish-green, tubular slough, varying in length from a few inches to several feet. Recovery has occasionally followed upon separation and extrusion of the gangrenous bowel. Ulceration and gangrene of the sheath is rare. In chronic cases the gangrene may be limited to the mucous membrane in the region of the apex. Varieties.—The commonest variety, at least in children, is the ileo-ccecal, which has already been described. The ileo-colic form, in which the lower end of the ileum is prolapsed through the ileo-csecal valve, is extremely rare, and it differs from the other forms in that the increase results from the introduction into the colon of more and more ileum, some portion of which forms the apex; for its occurrence it is necessary that the colon be fixed by a short mesentery or that the mesentery be absent. The colic form chiefly affects the descending or sigmoid colon and is usually limited. The enteric form is confined to the lesser bowel and is most frequent in the lower part of the jejunum. It is usually short, involving only a few inches of the bowel, and is of little clinical importance as it chiefly occurs during the “ death agony.” A rare form of intussusception occurs in connection with the appendix, in which this structure is turned completely inside out and projects into the lumen of the caecum. Mention may also be made of the invagination of a patent Mechel's diverticulum into the lumen of the small intestine, causing obstruction of its lumen, and, it may be, also starting an invagination of the intestine itself. Clinical Features of Acute Intussusception in Children.—This condition forms the most common variety of obstruction to which children are liable. Boys are more often affected than girls, and the child is usually in robust health. An acute attack is usually ushered in by the child suddenly screaming or crying out, turning pale, and vomiting; a normal motion may be passed soon after the onset of the attack. Attacks of pain recur at frequent intervals, and after some hours blood and mucus are passed by the rectum. Between the attacks of pain the child may appear to be quite well, and the pulse and temperature are usually normal, although he may be unnaturally quiet and listless. On examina- tion a cylindrical or sausage-shaped tumour, curved with its concavity towards the umbilicus, is the most constant and reliable sign of ileo-csecal intussusception. It is most often felt in the position of the descending or of the transverse colon. When the intussusceptum has reached the lower part of the colon, it may be felt in the rectum as a soft, conical mass with aINTUSSUSCEPTION. 489 central, slit-like depression resembling the os uteri, and the examining finger when withdrawn is stained with bloody mucus resembling red-currant jelly. The presence of the tumour in the rectum is usually associated with tenesmus and relaxation of the sphincters. The intussusceptum may finally protrude from the anus, presenting the appearances of congestion or of gangrene. The child exhibits the general features of intestinal obstruction, but there is little or no distension of the abdomen, and the vomiting rarely becomes faecal. In the diagnosis of intussusception from other acute abdominal affections in children, examination of the rectum is of great value, and it may be necessary to anaesthetise the child to carry it out satisfactorily. Treatment.—When the condition is diagnosed, the abdomen should be opened without delay. If the tumour is confined to the region of the ascending colon, the incision is made there ; in other cases it is made in or near the middle line, with its centre about the level of the navel. The fingers are inserted into the abdominal cavity, and an attempt made to deliver the tumour. In carrying out reduction the tumour should be straightened as far as possible, and an attempt made to push back the intussus- ceptum by compressing the sheath just beyond the apex. On no account should the entering loop be pulled upon because of the risk of tearing the bowel. Most difficulty is experienced at the end of the procedure, and to prevent damage to the bowel at this stage, the pressure should be exerted through a pad of gauze wrapped round it. After reduction has been successfully accomplished, to diminish the tendency to recurrence a longi- tudinal tuck or fold may be made in the mesentery of the ileum, or the mesentery stitched to the ascending meso-colon so as to make the ileum descend to the ileo-crecal junction. If reduction is impossible, or if there is evidence of gangrene, the invaginated portion must be resected. The sheath and the intussusceptum are first united by a continuous suture through the serous and muscular coats at the neck of the tumour, the sheath is then laid freely open and the intussusceptum removed ; the operation is completed by sewing up the wound in the sheath, or in stitching the edges of the opening in the colon to the parietal peritoneum so that it may act for a time as an artificial anus. If the sheath is not viable, the whole tumour must lie resected. In cases that have been successfully reduced by operation, the formation of adhesions may result, after an interval of months or years, in kinking or narrowing of the lower end of the ileum, with symptoms of intestinal obstruction.THE INTESTINES. 490 The treatment of intussusception by inflation or irrigation of the colon is not recommended. Chronic Intussusception.—In children chronic intussusception is usually of the ileo-csecal variety. The course of the malady may extend over several months, or may be protracted even for a year. There are occasional attacks of pain and vomiting, the bowels are irregular, and blood may be passed in the stools. The symptoms are sometimes aggravated by the taking of food. Coils of intestine are often to be seen in movement beneath the abdominal wall. A tumour is to be made out in about one-half of the cases, and it may be observed to vary considerably in its position within the abdomen from time to time. It may come down into the rectum and protrude at the anus, and is thus liable to be mistaken for prolapse or polypus. In the early periods of the disease, and in the intervals between attacks of pain, the child may appear to be in fair health. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in the acute form of the disease. In the Adult.—Chronic intussusception of the colon occurring in association with a polypus or cancer of the bowel is the variety most frequently met with in adults, although cases of the acute variety occasionally occur. The new growth usually precedes the invagination, and is found at the apex of the intussus- ceptum. Obstruction due to Impaction of Gall-Stones and other Foreign Bodies in the Lumen of the Bowel.—The most im- portant form in this group is that known as gall-stone ileus. The gall-stone that is likely to cause intestinal obstruction is one that has formed a cast of the gall-bladder, and has made its way into the bowel, not by the ducts, but through a fistulous channel formed by ulceration. In some cases the stone may have increased in size after entering the gut, by the deposit on it of materials derived from the intestinal contents. The stone most frequently ulcerates into the duodenum, but the most common seat of impaction is the lower ileum, where a com- paratively small stone—three-quarters of an inch in diameter —assisted by spasmodic contraction of the circular muscular coat, may block the bowel. Larger stones may become impacted high up in the jejunum. If the stone remains impacted, the mucous membrane is liable to ulcerate and thus favour the spread of infection to the peritoneum ; perforation is exceptional. Clinical Features.—Gall-stone ileus is met with chiefly in women over fifty years of age. The patient has usually suffered from gall-stones, and there may also be a more491 GALL-STONE ILEUS. recent history of symptoms referable to the passage of the gall-stone from the gall-bladder into the intestine, with evidence Bowel opened Fig. 131.—Gall-Stone Obstruction of Jejunum. The stone, the size of a pigeon’s egg, was firmly grasped by the wall of the bowel. (Dr. C. W. MacGillivray’s case.) of local peritonitis below the right costal margin. The onset of obstruction is usually abrupt. Pain, although sometimes a Fin. 132';—Nail impacted in Small Intestine. (Dr. C. W. MacGillivray’s case.) Radiogram by Dr. Dawson Turner. prominent feature, may be altogether absent. Vomiting occurs early and is persistent, and the ejected fluid is abundant and492 THE INTESTINES. stained with bile; after the second day it may be stercoraceous. There is less shock than in acute strangulation of the intestine, and there is little distension or tenderness of the abdomen. In thin patients, under an anaesthetic, the stone may be felt through the parietes, and in a few cases it has been observed to change its position. If the coil of intestine containing the stone is lying in the pouch of Douglas, it may be felt by the rectum. Less commonly gall-stone ileus assumes a chronic or inter- mittent character. In its passage along the intestine the stone may become arrested at different points from spasm of the bowel, and repeatedly cause symptoms of partial obstruction, with intervals of days or weeks between the attacks. Such a case may terminate in complete obstruction, or the stone may finally be passed in the motions and the patient be entirely relieved of her symptoms. Treatment.—As it is seldom possible to diagnose the cause of the obstruction, the abdomen is opened in the middle line by an incision large enough to admit two fingers. The loop of bowel containing the stone is usually found Avithout difficulty if the condition is suspected and looked for. It is some- times necessary to pass the Avhole small intestine through the fingers, otherwise a small stone is apt to be overlooked. The stone having been found, the loop of bowel containing it is brought outside the wound and surrounded Avith gauze, the bowel opened by a transverse incision, the stone removed, and the incision closed by two tiers of continuous suture. In advanced cases with great distension, it is advisable to empty the bowel through the opening made to extract the stone, and if the boAvel itself is much damaged, it should be resected. Among the other solid bodies that may block the intestine may be mentioned fcecal concretions or enteroliths, concretions of insoluble drugs, such as magnesia or salol, taken over a long period in large doses, plates of false teeth, and the various foreign bodies swallowed by lunatics, and by mountebanks to “gain a livelihood.” The clinical features may be those of intestinal obstruction, or of septic complications ; for example, perforative and other forms of peritonitis, abscess, and fcecal fistula, due to pressure of the foreign body on the bowel. The diagnosis is difficult unless an accurate history is forth- coming, or the foreign body can be demonstrated by the Rontgen rays. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in gall- stone ileus. Stenosis of the Bowel, including Stricture, Malformations, and Tumours.—It may be stated that the appearances observedSTRICTURE. 493 on post-mortem examination do not accurately represent the degree of narrowing of the lumen of the bowel present during life. As in other tubes having circular muscular fibres and provided with an abundant blood-supply — for example, the gullet, the urethra, or the pylorus—the elements of congestion and spasm, which may be present during life, add considerably to the narrowing, and the evidences of obstruction are liable to vary from time to time although the cicatricial element remains constant. Innocent cicatricial stricture is a comparatively rare lesion, and nearly always affects the small intestine. It is met with chiefly as a sequel to tuberculous ulceration in the lower end of the ileum, and is then often multiple—from three to five or more constrictions sometimes being present (Fig. 137). The gut between the individual strictures is markedly dilated, and its peritoneal coat may present a number of scattered greyish or yellow tubercles. Stricture may follow also on a strangulated hernia which has been reduced by operation, the cicatricial contraction taking place in the site of the constriction groove at one or at both ends of the loop of bowel implicated in the hernia. Stricture is extremely rare as a sequel of intussusception or of wounds of the bowel, but may follow when an opening in the bowel has been sutured in the long axis of the gut. The coils above the one that is narrowed present a marked degree of hypertrophy, as a result of increased peristaltic movements. The clinical features develop insidiously. There is colicky pain, aggravated by the ingestion of solid food, and attended with loud gurgling noises. There is vomiting, which is attended with little nausea, the patient bringing up large quantities of greenish-brown watery fluid at irregular intervals, it may be of two or three days. The motions are scanty, and vary in con- sistence ; diarrhoea is not uncommon. There may be little distension of the abdomen, and the abdominal wall usually remains flaccid. The hypertrophied coils above the stricture may exhibit spontaneously, or when stimulated by handling, exaggerated peristaltic movements, and they frequently arrange themselves in a pattern suggestive of a ladder or of the pipes of an organ. Splashing sounds may be elicited, and the distended coils, if full of fluid faeces, yield a dull note on percussion. The progress of the malady is slow and intermittent; the patient loses flesh, although he may be able to go about, and even continue to follow his occupation. In exceptional cases the first symptoms are those of acute obstruction brought494 THE INTESTINES. on by blocking of the narrowed bowel by indigestible food, congested mucous membrane, or inspissated fie cal matter. Even in typical cases of chronic obstruction due to stricture of the lesser bowel, it is seldom possible to be certain as to the cause of the obstruction without performing an exploratory operation. A similar train of clinical features may be brought about by new growths, by matting, bending, or compression of the gut from adhesions or from shrinking of the mesentery. It is, fortunately, unnecessary to differentiate between these various conditions, as laparotomy is the first step in the treat- ment of all of them. Treatment.—The sooner the condition is subjected to operative interference the easier and more successful will this prove. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, unless the seat of the stricture is indicated by some definite localising factor, such as an antecedent hernia. There is rarely any difficulty in finding the affected loop of intestine, or in bringing it out at the wound, except when adhesions are present, in which case these must first be separated. If there is a single annular stricture, the lumen of the bowel is most easily restored by making a longitudinal incision through the stricture on the convexity of the bowel, opposite the mesenteric attachment, and suturing the wound at right angles to its long axis—a procedure known as entero- plasty. If the segment of bowel affected is the seat of a stricture, or of several strictures in close proximity to one another, and especially if it is bent on itself and involved in adhesions, the choice lies between performing an immediate resection and establishing an anastomosis between the bowel above and below the diseased segment. If the conditions are favourable for its performance, enterectomy is the more satisfactory procedure. It is essential that the resection should extend well beyond the disease so that a section of healthy bowel is obtained for imme- diate union by sutures. Inequality in the size of the lumen of the two ends is overcome by cutting across the lower contracted segment obliquely, and slitting it on the side opposite the mesenteric attachment. Entero-anastomosis is to be preferred when there is extensive matting from adhesions. The formation of an artificial anus—enterostomy—except in critical and urgent cases, is to be avoided because of the irritating effects of the intestinal contents upon the skin, and because of the loss of nutriment; if the opening is made in the jejunum, there is serious risk of starvation. If an artificial anus is necessary to tide the patient over the critical period, a second and curativeCONGENITAL DILATATION OF COLON. 495 operation must be performed if possible not later than a week or ten days after the first. Congenital Malformations.—Certain congenital malforma- tions of the bowel may give rise to clinical features closely resembling those of stricture, for example, narrowing of the gut due to the presence of a diaphragm or septum stretching across the intestine, with a central aperture through which only fluid is able to pass. Although the condition is quite compatible with the attainment of adult life, obstructive symptoms may occur at any time from changes in the intestinal contents, or from inflammatory changes in the wall of the gut. Complete obliteration of a longer or shorter segment of the intestine sometimes occurs and proves fatal within a few days after birth ; it is not amenable to surgical treatment, although life may be prolonged for a time by the formation of an artificial anus. Congenital dilatation of the colon or Hirschsprung’s disease is a rare condition characterised by obstinate constipation, extreme distension of the abdomen, and visible peristalsis of individual coils of intestine. There is great dilatation and hypertrophy involving the whole colon, or chiefly the pelvic portion. The affected colon may attain enormous dimensions, as large as the thigh of an adult • it contains large quantities of yellowish-green fseces, with but little fmcal odour, and the mucous membrane may show superficial ulcers. There is no structural narrowing of the bowel, but, when the condition is fully developed, there may be a valvular hindrance, as is shown by the fact that when an artificial anus is made in the descend- ing colon, water may easily be made to pass from the natural to the artificial anus, but not in the reverse direction. The small intestine is usually collapsed and empty. The chief clinical features are constipation and distension of the abdomen ; in some cases the bowels never open spontane- ously, in others only at intervals of days or weeks and then only with the assistance of enemata. Although the child may be unable to pass flatus, when a tube is passed up the rectum gas escapes under considerable pressure. The abdomen becomes enormously enlarged without tension of its wall, and the contour of individual parts of the colon may be recognised and may show peristaltic movements. Pain and vomiting are usually absent, and death generally takes place from toxsemia. The nature of the malady is still under discussion. Hale White regards the condition as a “ congenital inertness ” of the colon or neuro-muscular defect, whereby it is incapable ofTHE INTESTINES. 496 forwarding its contents. The fact that the symptoms may not develop until after childhood does not disprove the congenital origin of the malady, which may only make itself evident when the musculature of the bowel becomes insufficient to propel the intestinal contents. The treatment consists in restricting the diet to what will leave little residue, and in systematically emptying the bowel by enemata. If surgical interference is called for, it would appear to be best to make an artificial anus in the descending colon in the first instance, and then, when the bowel has been completely emptied, to resect the affected portion of the colon or to establish an anastomosis between the lower end of the ileum and the lower part of the pelvic colon. Malignant Stricture—Cancer of the Bowel.—In the great majority of cases, this is associated with the growth of a columnar epithelioma originating in the mucous membrane of the large bowel. The tumour grows very slowly, and tends to spread cir- cularly around the gut. The epithelial elements usually undergo necrosis, while the fibrous stroma contracts, producing an annular stricture. Viewed from the outside, a comparatively small Fig. 133.—Boy, set. 10, suffering from congenital dilatation of tlie colon. Fig. 134. — Congenital dilata- tion of tlie colon as seen on post-mm'tem examination.497 MALIGNANT STRICTURE. amount of gut seems to be involved in the growth, the typical appearance being as if a string hacl been tied round the bowel (Fig. 135). Viewed from within, the lumen of the bowel is contracted to the size of a lead-pencil or a crow-quill by a well- defined ridge or ring representing the oldest, central portion of the growth, while above and below this the cancer extends in the mucous membrane for a varying distance, but seldom farther than one inch in each direction. The free surface of the growth is ulcerated and bleeds readily. The bowel above is altered as the result of attempts to drive the contents through the stricture, although the hypertrophy js never so pronounced as in stricture of the small bowel, and* is sooner succeeded by paralytic dilatation. The distension is often most marked in the caecum, although the cancer may be situated as low down as the pelvic colon (Fig. 124). The mucous membrane above the stricture shows chronic catarrh from the stagnation and pressure of the bowel con tents, and it may be the seat of ulceration, which is occasionally followed by gangrene and per- foration. The affected segment of bowel may be adherent to others in its vicinity, to the omentum, or to the parietes, without any extension of the cancer into these adhesions. On the other hand, the cancer may infiltrate the parietes, especially in growths of the caecum, or it may invade and open into an adjacent loop of bowel, the stomach, or the bladder, producing an internal fistula. Cicatricial contraction of the mesocolon is a common cause of fixation of the tumour, when, as in the case of the sigmoid, it would otherwise be movable. Secondary growths in the mesenteric glands, peritoneum, or liver are exceptional, owing to the arrangement of the lymphatics. The occurrence of more than one malignant stricture is rare. Cellulitis, with the formation of abscess in the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue, is occasionally observed, especially in cancer of the caecum, and by simulating appendicitis may prove a source of difficulty in diagnosis. The rupture of the abscess may be followed by the development of a faecal fistula. The sites of malignant stricture may be stated in order of frequency thus: pelvic colon, caecum, descending colon, transverse colon, splenic and hepatic flexures, small intestine. VOL. II—32 Fia. 135.—Malignant Annular Stricture of Pelvic Colon.THE INTESTINES. 498 Clinical Features.—It is a remarkable fact that a malignant stricture of the colon, in which the lumen of the bowel is reduced to the size of a crow-quill, or even smaller, is often attended with so few symptoms that the condition may remain un- suspected until the onset of acute obstruction. During the latent period the patient may complain of flatulent distension, of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move, and of paroxysmal pains in the abdomen, loin, and back. Constipation is the commonest complaint, and the lower the seat of the tumour in the colon the more pronounced is it, because of the greater solidity of the intestinal contents. There may be attacks of diarrhoea alternating with constipation, and even slight threatenings of obstruction, with considerable periods of comfort between the attacks. Loss of flesh and of strength may be altogether absent and is rarely sufficiently marked to afford grounds for suspecting malignant disease. If the abdominal walls are thick or loaded with fat, or if there is some general distension of the bowels, external examination usually yields no information. Under favourable conditions, however, it may be possible to recognise a tumour; the tumour that is felt on examination, however, may not be the strictured segment of bowel, but a mass of omentum or another coil of bowel which is adherent to it, or a faecal accumulation above the stricture. It is possible to venture an opinion as to the site of the stricture from a consideration of the position of the palpable swelling, its degree of mobility, its behaviour when the colon is filled from the rectum, and from other clinical features. The recognition of large masses which indent beneath the fingers— inspissated faeces—may occasionally help to identify the loaded bowel above the stricture. Tumours in the caecum and ascending colon can often be palpated, and they are frequently attended with distension and exaggerated peristalsis in the lower coils of the ileum. Growths at the splenic or hepatic flexures, so long as they are under cover of the ribs, cannot be detected by palpation, but may be felt if they are displaced down- wards ; they may be attended with distension in the right flank. Peristaltic movements of the large bowel are usually too feeble to be visible through the parietes, so that the outline of the distended colon is rarely to be made out, but it is often possible to satisfy oneself that the distension is most marked, and, if the bowel is loaded with faeces, that there is dulness on. pei’cussion, in those parts of the abdomen that are normally occupied by the large intestine. A growth in the transverse colon is usually centrally placed and may be palpable and madeMALIGNANT STRICTURE. 499 to move in various directions, and it also may be associated with distension in the right flank. A growth in the descending colon or sigmoid is usually more or less fixed in the left iliac fossa or pelvis, but if the mesentery is long and free, it may be found near the centre or in the right side of the abdomen. Sometimes the tumour can be recognised on bi-manual examination or may be seen through the rectum with the aid of a long speculum—sigmoidoscopy. Although stricture at this level is seldom accompanied by distension and exaggerated peristalsis in the small intestine, we have seen an organ-pipe pattern formed by coils of small intestine in malignant stricture situated as low down as the sigmoid. The passage of blood and mucus by the rectum or the presence of traces of blood in the stools, is suggestive of cancer in the descending colon or sigmoid, and stricture low down in the colon is often attended with tenesmus. The majority of cases of cancer of the colon first come under observation when obstruction is the dominant feature. The symptoms of ileus may gradually supervene on those described above, or they may come on suddenly in a patient who has not made any complaint of his bowels. It is noteworthy that the acute symptoms have sometimes followed the taking of a strong purgative. They are in no sense peculiar to malignant stricture, and the diagnosis is usually impossible unless a history of symp- toms of gradual narrowing is forthcoming. If there is pain, it is often referred to other seats than that of the stricture, for example, in cancer of the pelvic colon the pain may be referred to the caecum. Vomiting is a late symptom, and even towards the end, when it becomes constant, is not very distressing, and does not always become stercoraceous. Hiccup is often a trouble- some feature. Absolute constipation may last for as long as ten days or more without the symptoms becoming urgent. Balloon- ing of the rectum—that is, dilatation from paralysis—is often present in stricture of the descending or sigmoid colon, but is not peculiar to these. The abdomen becomes more and more distended, and the individual coils that become prominent may indicate the seat of the obstruction, or it may be blown up so uniformly that no inference as to localisation of the block is possible. Differential Diagnosis.—It is not always possible to diagnose a malignant stricture with anything approaching certainty. When there is a palpable tumour and this is situated in the ileo-cgecal region, the diagnosis is to be made from tuberculous disease of the caecum and from inflammatory swellings originat- ing in the appendix. When the tumour is in the transverseTHE INTESTINES. 500 colon, it is to be differentiated from tumours of the gall-bladder, liver, stomach, or omentum. A tumour of the ascending or descending colon is to be differentiated from a tumour of the kidney. Tumours of the pelvic colon in women may resemble those originating from the uterine appendages. When symptoms of obstruction are present, the diagnosis is to be made from such other causes of ileus as stricture of the lesser bowel, volvulus, incomplete strangulation by a band, matting of the bowels, faecal accumulation, and tumours of other organs pressing on the bowel. In many cases the difficulty is not cleared up until the abdomen is opened. Treatment.—In the presence of actual obstruction relief must be given without delay by opening the bowel above the block. As it is seldom possible to be certain of the site of the obstruction or of its nature, it is usually advisable to open the abdomen to the right of the middle line, below the level of the umbilicus. If the caecum is found distended, there is reasonable certainty that the stricture is below this, and the condition of the trans- verse colon is next investigated. If distended, it is brought out into the wound and an artificial anus established. In cases of great urgency and where the abdominal distension is so pronounced that exploration is inadmissible, the incision is made over the ileo-caecal junction, and the caecum, if distended, is brought out and opened. When the obstruction is tided over, the removal of the cancerous segment of bowel may be under- taken under more favourable auspices. Before the onset of obstruction, the removal of the affected segment of bowel affords a good prospect of radical cure. The abdomen having been opened by an incision so placed as to give the best access to the tumour, the site and extent of the disease are investigated to determine the possibility of its removal. Having decided to proceed with the operation, there is a choice between two methods. The first consists in clamping and resecting the bowel and establishing an immediate junction. This may be preferred in the case of malignant disease of the caecum or sigmoid flexure, in which the conditions for immediate junction are more favourable than in other parts of the colon. At the point selected for section the bowel is crushed with an enterotribe and cut across; each end is then ligatured and invaginated, and the continuity of the lumen re-established by a lateral anastomosis. The fixed portions of the colon at the hepatic and splenic flexures may require to be mobilised by dividing the parietal peritoneum by blunt dissection. If the amount of bowel removed is too great to permit of joining theSARCOMA OF THE BOWEL. 501 ends, tlie lower end of the ileum must be inserted into the lower part of the colon—ileo-colostomy. The alternative method consists in performing the operation in stages ; at the first, the affected segment of bowel is brought out and fixed at the wound ; from two to five days later the diseased portion is removed by means of the thermo-cautery, a Paul’s tube being inserted into each of the open ends of the bowel. After a week or ten days, when adhesions have formed shutting off the peritoneal cavity, the ends of the bowel are dissected free and stitched to one another. If the conditions found on opening the abdomen exclude the prospect of radical cure, for example, if the disease affects two or more coils of bowel, or if it is adherent to the parietes or is inaccessibly situated, the symptoms may be relieved and life prolonged by performing an entero-anastomosis or by establish- ing an artificial anus. Entero-anastomosis is usually carried out by cutting across the lower end of the ileum, closing and inverting the distal end, and inserting the proximal end into the colon beyond the disease. When the cancer is situated too low down in the pelvic colon to permit of this, an artificial anus must be established in the descending or transverse colon. Sarcoma of the bowel is a rare affection. It is most fre- quently situated in the lower ileum, and usually assumes the form of a diffuse infiltration of the coats of the intestine, con- verting the bowel into a rigid tube. If the lumen is narrowed, the clinical features are the same as in innocent stricture of the ileum, only the development and progress of the disease are more rapid. If the lumen is not encroached upon, the disease progresses without symptoms until there is the formation of an abdominal tumour. As the former variety is more likely to be subjected to operation at an early stage, treatment is more successful. Removal is carried out as in cancer. Pressure on the Bowel by Tumours.—Obstruction may result from the pressure of large tumours of the uterus, ovary, kidney, mesentery, or omentum, and the lower end of the pelvic colon is the segment of bowel most likely to be pressed upon. The onset of obstruction may be acute, from a sudden change in the position of the tumour, or from kinking or strangulation of the bowel; more often it is gradual, the features resembling those of stricture; in some cases the constipation simply increases until it becomes complete. In pedunculated tumours such as ovarian cysts and dermoids, the pedicle may become twisted and give rise to symptoms which simulate those of obstruction; and the wall of the cyst, after being strangu-THE INTESTINES. 502 lated, may become adherent to a coil of intestine and cause obstruction. Treatment must be directed not only to the con- dition of the bowel, but to the tumour causing the pressure. In the case of a large tumour, such as an ovarian cyst, it may be necessary to remove or empty the tumour before the condition of the bowel can be investigated. Faecal Accumulation. — Considering the frequency of ob- stinate constipation, it is remarkable that faecal accumulation is so rarely a cause of obstruction. It would appear that when obstruction does occur in patients who are the subjects of chronic constipation it is due to some additional factor, probably in the near vicinity of the rectum, such as bending or torsion of the sigmoid ilexure, from its being unequally loaded with masses of hardened faeces. Such variations from the normal arrange- ment of the bowel, as pouching of the caecum so that it hangs down into the pelvis, looping of the transverse colon into a V with its apex hanging towards the symphysis, or undue length of the sigmoid, so that when loaded it gravitates into the pouch of Douglas, also favour the occurrence of obstruction. Several of these factors may combine to produce this form of obstruction. The accumulation of faecal matter may be enormous, and the colon may be so distended as to fill the greater part of the abdomen. The caecum especially suffers from distension, and its mucous membrane may be extensively ulcerated and per- foration of the bowel take place. Faecal accumulation is met with after middle life. The history is not unlike that of malignant stricture, only it is much longer, and dates back many years. The patient has all through life been troubled with constipation, and may have had previous threatenings of obstruction with colicky pains and distension, which were tided over by enemata, and were followed by intervals of comparative well-being. Such patients have an unhealthy appearance, the outcome of chronic poisoning from the absorption of the products of decomposition within the bowel. The distension may be so great as to press upon the diaphragm and cause embarrassment of the heart and lungs. Vomiting is not a prominent feature, and rarely becomes ster- coraceous. The lower bowel is usually found to be full of hard faecal masses—seybalce. Treatment.—The first indication is to empty the colon, and this is best effected by the use of enemata. The pro- cedure is attended with considerable pain which may necessitate the administration of a general anaesthetic. It is also attended with some risk, for if fluid is rapidly poured into the already503 FiECAL ACCUMULATION. over-distended bowel, the latter may give way. If a general anaesthetic is employed, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position with the buttocks raised, and the sphincters having been stretched, the faecal mass is softened with hot saline solution or olive oil run in through a funnel and soft rubber tube, like that used for washing out the stomach. The fingers, protected with rubber gloves, are the safest instruments to employ. The rectum having been emptied, saline fluid is allowed to run gently into the colon, and at the same time the abdomen is massaged with the object of exciting peristaltic movements. It is encouraging if large quantities of gas come away, with simultaneous diminution in the tension and prominence of the abdomen. The heart may require to be stimulated by strychnin and by saline infusion into the cellular tissue. We have observed the case of a middle-aged man, an alcoholic, who was sent into hospital on five occasions at intervals of from three to six months, each time critically ill with obstruction, which on four occasions was relieved by the above measures. On the last occasion the colon gave way during the process of irrigation, and he died within twelve hours. It need scarcely be added that, after the obstruction has been relieved, means should be taken to prevent a recurrence of the accumulation; chief reliance is to be placed on measures intended to restore peristalsis—such as massage and electricity to the abdomen, appropriate exercises, and the administration of strychnin and belladonna, cascara, and other bowel tonics. Other Affections of the Intestines. Embolism and Thrombosis of the Mesenteric Blood Vessels.—The clinical features which accompany these lesions bear a close resemblance to those of primary affections of the in- testine, and this may give rise to mistakes in diagnosis. In spite of the abundant blood-supply to the intestines and of the free anastomosis between the individual arterial branches in the mesentery, blocking of one or other of the main trunks, and especially of the superior mesenteric artery, leads to serious changes in the condition of the bowel supplied by it. If it is the artery that is blocked, these changes are of the nature of a haemorrhagic infarction, which is liable to be followed by gangrene of the bowel. In embolism of one of the main arterial trunks there is sudden onset of intense colicky pain, attended with vomiting and sometimes with profuse haemorrhage from the bowel, and504 THE INTESTINES. in some cases the symptoms are indistinguishable from those of intestinal obstruction. This may be recovered from, but there is a great tendency towards gangrene of the bowel and death from septic peritonitis. The diagnosis is always extremely difficult, even when conditions are known to be present which predispose to embolism, such as valvular disease of the heart. In all cases the prognosis is grave. When the abdomen is opened soon after the onset of symptoms, it is found to contain blood- stained fluid, and a greater or less extent of the small intestine —-from a few inches to many feet—is found to be firm, dark, swollen, and solid like a sausage, while the bowel below is collapsed and empty. When the condition has lasted some time, the affected bowel shows evidence of commencing gangrene. Immediate resection of the damaged bowel holds out the only chance of recovery, but in many cases the operation is im- practicable and should not be attempted. In thrombosis of the mesenteric veins the anatomical and clinical features are very similar. Perforation of Typhoid Ulcer.—This is one of the most serious complications of typhoid fever. The perforation may occur in the mild or “ ambulant ” form of the disease, which has not previously given rise to any symptoms. More fre- quently it occurs in a patient who is under treatment for the disease, usually during the second or third week of the fever; or it may happen during convalescence. Perforation is much more common in men than in women, and is sometimes met with in children; it is usually solitary, although occasionally multiple, and it is most often situated within the last two or three feet of the ileum. The clinical features are marked by the sudden onset of severe abdominal pain, referred to the umbilicus or to the right lower half of the abdomen, and tenderness on pressure, followed by signs of peritonitis in the right iliac fossa. There is frequently a want of certainty in the diagnosis, and when there is a reasonable doubt, the safe course is to make a small exploratory opening. The sooner this is done the better, as success largely depends on the shortness of the interval between the occurrence of perforation and the operation for its closure. Local anaes- thesia is to be preferred. A small incision is made in the vicinity of the right semilunar line; the caecum is identified and examined, and then the lower coils of the ileum. Enlarge- ment of Peyer’s patches is easily recognised on inspection and manipulation. The perforation may be obscured by purulent lymph, gumming together the coils of bowel. When the open-DYSENTERY. 505 ing is found, it is closed by sutures. If there are areas in the adjacent bowel that appear likely to perforate, these should be invaginatecl by Lembert sutures, or covered over with an omental graft. Sometimes the bowel is so extensively damaged as to call for resection, but if the patient’s general state does not permit of this being carried out, the affected loop should be brought outside the wound and an artificial anus established. Cases are recorded of a second perforation, when convalescence from the first is well established, calling for a second laparotomy. Dysentery.—In acute dysentery the chief symptom is frequent passage of slimy or bloody stools, attended with colicky pains and tenesmus. The colon, either throughout or in parts, is in a condition of acute inflammation, frequently associated with ulceration and sometimes with gangrene. In cases that resist medical treatment the question of opening the colon may be considered, in order to give rest to the bowel, and to allow of irrigation and the direct application of remedial agents to the inflamed mucous membrane. In chronic dysentery similar features persist or recur from time to time, and there may also be symptoms of narrowing of the colon from cicatricial changes in the wall of the bowel, or from adhesions interfering with its peristalsis. Surgical interfer- ence is more often called for than in the acute disease. If the chief object is to admit of the colon being irrigated, this is most easily carried out by using the vermiform appendix as a channel for conveying fluid into the colon—appendicostomy —a procedure introduced by Weir of New York. The appendix is brought out through a small wound over the caecum, and, after being fixed with sutures, the terminal portion is amputated A rubber catheter is inserted and retained in the appendix so long as the treatment by irrigation is called for. When the treatment is completed, the fistula is closed by resecting the stump of the appendix. An advantage of this method is that all leakage of caecal contents is avoided. If the appendix is not available, a rubber tube may be inserted and fixed in the caecum in the same way as the tube is fixed in the stomach in a WitzeFs gastrostomy. The solutions most commonly employed are normal saline solution, and dilute solution of nitrate of silver (1-2000), using ten to twelve pints three times a day. If the object is to divert the course of the faeces and afford rest to the diseased colon, an artificial anus is made in the first part of the ascending colon, and through this irrigation may also be carried out. When the artificial anus is no longer wanted it is closed by dissection and suture.506 THE INTESTINES. Intractable Colitis.—Apart from dysentery there are other forms of inflammation and ulceration which may affect the colon. The leading symptoms are diarrhoea, griping pains, and loss of flesh. The diarrhoea usually alternates with constipa- tion ; it is often offensive and associated with want of control of the sphincters. The motions may contain mucus, pus, and sometimes blood, and in a certain group of cases they contain mucous or membranous casts of the bowel. The membranous form is chiefly met with in neurotic women, and is at- tended with great pain on defecation. In cases which resist medical treatment great benefit usually follows irrigation carried out on the same lines as in chronic dysentery. Chronic Inflammatory Thickening of the Colon and Rectum.—Under this heading there falls to be described a rare condition which has hitherto been mis- taken for malignant disease. The sigmoid loop of the pelvic colon is the part of the bowel most frequently affected, hence the term sig- moiditis sometimes applied to the disease; it is also met with in the rectum, and in a case observed by our- selves both sigmoid and rectum were involved. On examining the sigmoid colon, it gives the impression of having been converted into a solid, more or less rigid cylinder; the investing peritoneum is thickened, rough, granular, and opaque, and the lumen is narrowed, usually to about one-third of the normal. On section of the wall of the bowel, the submucous coat is found to be the seat of an extensive formation of fibrous tissue, which by its contraction causes the mucous membrane to project into the lumen in the form of polypoidal or cauliflower-like elevations, an appearance which has some- times led to the condition being mistaken for multiple adenomata Fio. 136.—Chronic Inflammatory thicken- ing of Sigmoid, from a woman, set. 22.TUBERCULOSIS. 507 or papillomata (Fig. 136). Between the prominent folds of mucous membrane there are deep recesses, spoken of as “ false diverticula,” in which ulceration is liable to take place, and this may subsequently spread through the other coats of the bowel, sometimes leading to perforation. Beneath the serous coat there is a uniform layer of dense fat about an eighth of an inch in thickness. The muscular coat is not appreciably altered. The tibrosis of the submucous coat resembles similar changes in other organs, resulting from chronic infective conditions and from syphilis. The clinical features, which consist in alternating constipa- tion and diarrhoea, blood in the motions, abdominal pain, and progressive failure of health, closely resemble those of cancer of the lower bowel. When the rectum is involved, the examining finger discovers a decided narrowing of the lumen and a convoluted condition of the mucous membrane, with ulceration and bleeding. When the sigmoid is affected, a sausage-shaped tumour, somewhat resembling an intussusception, may be felt below and to the left of the umbilicus. It is seldom possible from the symptoms to differentiate this affection from malignant disease, but, when it affects the rectum, examination with the speculum should enable a diagnosis to be made. When the sigmoid is affected, it may be felt as an abdominal tumour, and on opening the abdomen there should be no difficulty in recognising the nature of the disease. Treatment. — The only satisfactory method of treatment would appear to be complete removal of the affected portion of bowel by the combined abdominal and perineal routes. Tuberculosis of the Intestine.—Apart from the general infection of the intestinal canal that sometimes ensues in cases of advanced phthisis, tuberculous disease is most often met with in the ileo-csecal region—ileo-caecal tuberculosis. Sometimes the condition produces stenosis of the gut; sometimes a tumour forms in the right iliac fossa. Tuberculous stricture forms in the situation of a pre-existing ulcer, and there may be several fibrous strictures scattered over a considerable length of intestine, with sacculation of the intervening segments of bowel (Fig. 137). The stenosis may be augmented by adhesions between the affected loops or between the bowel and the parietal peritoneum. The peritoneal invest- ment of the gut often shows miliary nodules of tubercle, and the glands in the corresponding segment of mesentery may be enlarged and caseous.508 THE INTESTINES. Tlie clinical features are those common to all forms of gradual and incomplete obstruction of the intestine, and, if the affected coils are matted together, a sense of resistance or an ill-defined tumour is felt on palpation or on bi-manual examina- tion. It is usually possible to recognise the nature of the lesion from the history of the illness and the presence of other evidence of tuberculosis, but the diagnosis is sometimes only made after opening the abdomen. In our experience this condition is more commonly met with in children than in adults. The choice of operation lies between an entero-anasto- mosis and resection of the diseased segment of gut (Fig. 137). The tuberculous, ileo-ccecal tumour is a well-defined clinical type of abdominal tuberculosis. The dis- ease is often limited to the ileo-csecal seg- ment, although it may extend for a variable distance along the ascending colon or the lower ileum. The tumour results from a great increase in the thick- ness of the wall of the Fig. 137. — Portion of Small Intestine showing bowel and is SOme- Multiple Strictures following on Tuberculous , ■ ’ , , , ,, Ulcers. Resected in the case of a woman, set. 30, tlmes ,added to by the suffering from chronic intestinal obstruction. adhesion of adjacent coils of small intestine and by the enlargement of the glands in the associated mesentery. The condition is most frequently met with between the ages of twenty and forty, but may occur much later in life, and also in children. A tumour in the right iliac fossa or flank may first attract attention ; more commonly there is a preliminary history of failing health, of griping pains, and alternate con- stipation and diarrhoea, and sometimes there is blood and mucus in the stools. If the lumen of the gut is narrowed, there are threatenings of obstruction, and, in emaciated subjects, visible peristalsis and distension of the lower coils of ileum may be recognised.509 ABNORMAL ANUS. Except in very stout subjects, the tumour is easily recognised on combined palpation from the Hank and loin. It is firm, little sensitive, roughly cylindrical, and its surface is uneven or bossy, and the resonance over it is impaired. At first freely movable, it tends to become fixed as a result of adhesions and infiltration of the mesentery. Abscesses may form, and if they rupture externally may cause persistent sinuses or a fsecal fistula. The disease is very chronic, and, unless the lumen of the bowel is much narrowed, may progress slowly for years with long periods of latency. Apart from the risk of obstruction, danger to life results from extension of the tuberculous infection directly to the peritoneum, or by way of the blood-stream to other organs. The differential diagnosis from chronic lesions resulting from appendicitis and from carcinoma of the caecum may be exceed- ingly difficult, and the differentiation from cancer may not be possible even when the abdomen is opened, unless one of the associated lymphatic glands is examined microscopically. If the conditions are favourable, it is best to resect the diseased segment of bowel, but, if this is difficult or impossible, an anastomosis should be made between the ileum and the colon well beyond the limits of the disease. Actinomycosis.—This is a less common, but more aggressive and dangerous disease than tuberculosis. The infection takes place from the mucous membrane of the bowel, and spreads to the peritoneum. There is a great deal of inflammatory infil- tration of the coats of the bowel and adhesion to adjoining structures, giving rise to an ill-defined, diffuse, and fixed swelling, most often situated in the right iliac fossa. Abscess formation and persistent sinuses commonly supervene, and the fungus may be found either in the pus or in the granulation tissue in the wall of the sinus. Treatment consists in opening up sinuses, removing the infected tissues with the spoon and scissors, and administering iodides internally. Abnormal Anus.—This term is employed to describe an opening in the skin through which the intestinal contents escape. The term fcecal fistula and intestinal fistula may with advantage be restricted to those openings that result from disease or injury, and the term artificial anus to those that are made by the surgeon for therapeutic purposes. Fcecal or Intestinal Fistula.—The fistuke of congenital origin occurring at the umbilicus have already been described (p. 352). Other modes of origin are: (1) from any trauma which damages the wall of the gut, such, for example, as a penetrating510 THE INTESTINES. wound, a subcutaneous contusion or rupture, or an operation in which the bowel has been opened and sutured and the stitches have subsequently given way. The fistula may form directly or through the mediation of an ABO. WALL MESENTERY Fig. 138.—Fiscal Fistula of Small Intes- tine, opening directly on surface. ASD. WALL abscess ; in the latter case the external opening may be at a considerable distance from the opening in the bowel. (2)From inflammatory or ulcerative pro- cesses in the wall of the bowel or in the tissues immediately adjoining it, such, for example, as appendicitis with sloughing of the wall of the caecum, tuber- culosis, actinomycosis, cancer, or foreign bodies impacted in the gut. When a segment of bowel is involved in the wall of an abscess, the suppurative processes may extend into the lumen, as well as towards the skin surface, and thus establish a faecal fistula. The situation and anatomical characters of the fistula vary with its mode of origin. In the majority of cases the opening in the bowel is a comparatively small one, so that, provided there is no obstruction in the bowel beyond, only a propor- tion of the intestinal contents escape externally. If the seg- ment of bowel is adherent to the parietes (Fig. 138), the margin of the fistulous orifice is often lined with intestinal mucous membrane, and this may protrude at the mouth of the fistula. If the opening is large enough, the bowel as a whole may prolapse as a result of increase of the intra-abdom- inal pressure or of peristaltic movements in the intestine immediately above the opening. If, on the other hand, a suppurating channel or abscess cavity inter- venes between the bowel and the parietes, the fistula is lined by granulation tissue (Fig. 139). The clinical features vary with the distance of the fistula from the normal anus, with the pro- portion of intestinal contents escaping, and with the nature of MESENTERY Fig. 139.—Faecal Fistula of Small In- testine with Track of Suppuration between the Bowel and the Abdominal Wall.511 FyECAL FISTULA- the lesion to which the fistula owes its origin. Fistula; in the colon discharge fmcal matter, and if this is solid or semi-solid, its escape is more or less under the control of a pad and bandage. The discharge from a fistula in the small intestine is fluid, and is composed of partially digested food material mixed with the various secretions discharged into the bowel; its appearance, chemical characters, and nutritive value varying with the level of the fistula. If it is situated in the upper part of the jejunum, the loss of nutriment may cause rapid emaciation, and terminate in death by starvation. The fluid, moreover, is extremely irri- tating, and causes inflammation and, it may be, superficial ulceration of the surrounding skin. In a general sense it may be said that the discharge from a fistula in the upper part of the jejunum is decidedly acid, and contains bile and undigested foocl material, while in the lower ileum its reaction is neutral or alkaline, and bile and undigested food materials are not recognisable, but personal observation has shown us that these and other reputed differentiating factors cannot be relied upon. The loss or gain in weight affords the most reliable information regarding the influence of the fistula on the nutrition and health of the patient, and the necessity of adopting means for its closure. Treatment.—In considering the propriety of attempting to close an intestinal fistula, it is to be borne in mind that in one group of cases the fistula is only an incidental element of the original disease, which is still present, for example, tuberculosis, cancer, and certain lesions of the appendix, and that it is only advisable to close the fistula if the primary condition can be got rid of. In a second group, the fistula is the result of trauma, or of some disease which has run its course, and treat- ment is directed exclusively to the fistula. It is with this group that we are here concerned. There is a considerable tendency to natural cure, especially in fistulae which are lined by granulation tissue, provided always that there is no obstruction in the bowel beyond. The patient should be confined to bed, the diet restricted to foods which leave little fmcal residue, and the bowels emptied by enemata. The irritation of the skin around the fistula is allayed by soothing applications. To make the fistula granulate from the bottom, the track is packed with iodoform worsted, which is changed at frequent intervals. If there is an abscess cavity, it should be laid open and packed. Natural cure is unlikely to take place if the fistula is lined with mucous membrane, and especially if there is a double tube of bowel opening on the surface with a spur or septum between.512 THE INTESTINES. The septum may be made to atrophy by the pressure of an india-rubber tube introduced so that one end is in the afferent and the other in the efferent limb of the segment of bowel concerned, or it may be mechanically compressed and divided by a screw clamp, known as an enterotome. More frequently re- course is to be had to some such. operative measure as that suggested by John Duncan in 1873, which consists in separating by dissec- tion the adherent edges of bowel and abdominal parietes, and stitching like to like. The mucous membrane is dissected up all round the ab- normal orifice; it is MCSO-COLON Fig. 140.—Formation of Artificial Anus in Pelvic Colon. First stage—tile bowel is drawn out at the wound. then invaginated, and series of interrupted the raw surfaces stitched together by a catgut sutures; the margins of the skin are next pared and brought together by sutures. Artificial Anus.—This is an opening made in the bowel for therapeutic purposes. In the anus that is made in the pelvic colon to relieve symp- toms in cancer of the rectum, the usual ar- rangement is that of two parallel tubes of bowel opening freely on the surface with a septum or spur be- tween them (Fig. 141). The edges of the opening in the bowel fuse with the edges of the surround- ing skin, and the sep- tum serves to divert the intestinal contents out at the opening. When an artificial anus has been made in the small intestine, the opening in the bowel is a comparatively small one, and, provided there be no Fig. 141.—Completed Artificial Anus in Pelvic Colon. The edges of the bowel after being opened have become retracted, and united with the margins of the wound in the parietes.INTERNAL FISTULA. 513 obstruction in the bowel beyond, only a proportion of the intes- tinal contents escape externally. For the closure of an artificial anus in the colon it may suffice to dissect the margin of the bowel where it is adherent to the skin and close the opening by two tiers of sutures, introduced so as to invaginate the edges. More commonly it is necessary to open the abdominal cavity, separate the bowel completely from the parietes, and close the opening in it by a double tier of sutures inserted in a direction at right angles to the long axis of the gut. If the condition of the bowel is such as to render doubtful the success of this procedure, it is better to resect the affected segment and join the ends by one or other of the methods already described. Although the abnormal anus has been discharging faeces up till the time of the operation, it is usual to obtain primary union, not only of the bowel, but also of the wound in the parietes. Fistulae between the Intestine and other Organs—Internal Fistulae.—These result from disease originating either in the bowel or in the organ with which it communicates. Fistulae between the small and large intestines only cause symptoms if the opening in the small bowel is high up and a long tract of the gut intervenes between the two openings, in which case the bile and undigested food may appear in the stools, and the patient may emaciate. Fistulae between the stomach and intestine— usually the transverse colon—may be attended with eructation of intestinal gases or vomiting of intestinal contents, and the appearance of undigested food in the stools. Fistulas between the biliary passages and the duodenum or colon result from gall- stone affections, and are seldom attended with symptoms. Fistulae between the intestine and the genito-urinary organs are chiefly met with in the pelvis; of these the recto-urethral and recto-vesical are the most important, as life is endangered by septic infection ascending to the kidneys. Operative measures for the closure of an internal fistula are only called for when it is a source of danger to life, and are only justifiable when it is possible to cure the disease to which the fistula owes its origin. Apart from fistulae in the pelvis, in which it may be possible to get access from the perineum, it is necessary to open the abdomen; the organs connected by the fistula are separated from one another, and the opening in each closed by sutures. Tumours of the Intestine.—An adenoma may originate in Lieberkiihn’s follicles, and form a sessile tumour in the mucous membrane, or project from the surface as a polypus (Fig. 142). VOL. II—33THE INTESTINES. 514 A solitary tumour, unless when seated in the rectum, rarely gives rise to symptoms; it may, however, form the starting-point of an intussusception. Adenomata are sometimes met with in the form of polypi disseminated throughout the colon and rectum. This affection is met with chiefly in young adults, and is attended with diarrhoea, loss of blood, abdominal pain, and sometimes with symptoms of stenosis. There is a tendency to cancerous transformation of one or other of the adenomatous tumours. The sufferings of the patient may be greatly relieved by anasto- mosing the lower ileum with the sigmoid flexure. When this is not practicable, an artificial anus may be established in the Fig. 142.—Pedunculated Adenoma of Descending Colon, from a woman, set. 35. caecum, in order to put the large bowel at rest and to allow of irrigation. Lipomata and fibromata rarely cause symptoms unless by giving rise to intussusception or stenosis of the bowel. Malignant disease of the intestine is described at p. 496. Enteroptosis.—In the sense in which this term was used by Glenard (1885), it implies a downward displacement of the stomach, transverse colon, and generally of the right or of both kidneys, accompanied by digestive disturbances, and often by symptoms of neurasthenia. The term splanchnoptosis may be used to indicate downward displacement of all the abdominal organs, enteroptosis being reserved for those cases in which the bowel alone is displaced. The transverse colon may descend to the level of the sym- physis, and the stomach may be found anywhere between the515 ENTEROPTOSIS. umbilicus and the pubes. One or both kidneys are frequently displaced downwards; more rarely the liver and spleen. The uterus may be prolapsed or even protruded from the vagina. In men, the condition is predisposed to by impairment of the health and muscular debility, and in women by loss of tone in the muscular and fascial structures of the abdominal wall, aggravated by compression of the waist and the weight of the skirts forcing the viscera downwards. Adhesions resulting from pelvic peritonitis may cause descent of the viscera by direct traction. The severity of the symptoms is not proportionate to the degree of displacement; in many cases the clinical features are mainly those of neurasthenia. The patient complains of con- stant dragging pain in the abdomen and loins, aggravated by standing or exertion, and relieved by lying down. Special symptoms referable to the displacement of individual organs may be present. The diagnosis is made by physical examination of the ab- domen, the patient being placed successively in the recumbent, the knee-elbow, and the erect posture. In the case of the stomach and intestine the displacement may be demonstrated by X-ray examination after filling the respective viscera with an emulsion of bismuth. Treatment is directed towards improving the general health and increasing the amount of adipose tissue, removing any causal factors, such as tiglit-lacing or over-exertion, regulating the stomach and bowels, and restoring the muscular tone of the abdominal walls by means of massage and suitable exercises. The falling down of the viscera may to a certain extent be con- trolled by an appropriate bandage, belt, or corset, applied while the patient is in the Trendelenburg position, and so arranged that the pressure is from below upwards. A large pad of wool, corresponding in shape to the anterior abdominal wall, and a wide domette roller bandage is usually found to be quite efficient. During the sleeping hours the foot of the bed should be raised. In aggravated cases, which do not yield to these measures, recourse may be had to surgical interference, the nature of which will be described with the individual organs. It should be pointed out that where neurasthenia is a prominent feature, it may continue after all displacements have been made good.516 CHAPTER XXVIII. THE LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. Liyek : Surgical anatomy — Injuries: Stab and gunshot wounds; Rupture—Diseases: Hepatie abscess; Hydatids; Syphilitic gummata —Tumours—Acquired deformities and displacements of the liver— Surgical treatment of ascites due to cirrhosis of the liver. Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts: Surgical anatomy — Symptoms— Characters and formation of gall-stones—Stones in the gall-bladder and cystic duct—Gall-stone obstruction of common duct—Sequelse of gall-stone affections : Adhesions; Stricture of ducts ; Abdominal abscess; Intestinal obstruction ; Fistula—Inflammatory affections of the gall-bladder and bile-ducts: Cholecystitis; Empyema of gall- bladder ; Phlegmonous cholecystitis—Cancer of gall-bladder and cystic duct—Cancer of bile-ducts—Injuries. The Liver. Surgical Anatomy.—The left lobe of the liver extends across the epigastric region into the left hypochondrium, and is in contact with the anterior ab- dominal wall. It is therefore more accessible than the right lobe, which is overlapped by the ribs and roofed in by the diaphragm. The space between the liver and the diaphragm is divided into right and left com- partments by the falciform or suspensory ligament. An accumulation of pus in one or other of these compartments constitutes a right or left sub- phrenic abscess. The highest part of the liver, which corresponds also to the highest part of the right arch of the diaphragm, during expiration reaches the level of the fourth intercostal space in the mammary line. In the erect posture the lower edge of the liver on the right side projects slightly below the costal margin. In the recumbent position it is entirely under cover of the ribs, except in the subcostal angle where the left lobe of the liver intervenes between the stomach and the anterior abdominal wall. On the inferior surface of the liver are found the gall- bladder and the larger bile-ducts and blood-vessels. The under surface of the right lobe is in relation from before backwards with the hepatic flexure of the colon, the duodenum at the junction of its first and second portions, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. Access to the lower margin and inferior surface of the liver is readily obtained by the abdominal route ; if the costal cartilages that lie below the reflection of the pleura—eighth to eleventh—are removed, access is also obtained to the upper or parietal aspect of the viscus. To obtain access to the convex surface of the right lobe, recourse must be had to the trans-517 RUPTURE OF THE LIVER, pleural route ; portions of certain ribs—usually the seventh and eighth —are resected in the mid-axillary line, the pleural cavity traversed, and the diaphragm divided. Injuries.—It has been shown experimentally that under aseptic conditions wounds of the liver heal readily, and also that there is great capacity of regeneration in liver tissue. Penetrating wounds of the liver result from stabs and gunshot injuries. They are dangerous chiefly on account of haemorrhage, the blood escaping externally as well as into the peritoneal cavity. If the portal vein is wounded, death may take place rapidly, as in the case of President Carnot. There is rarely any escape of bile from the wound unless the patient survives for several days. The treatment con- sists in enlarging the external wound, ex- posing the injured liver, and arresting the lnemorrhage by approximating the edges of the wound in the liver by sutures of thick catgut passed deeply through the liver substance, and superficial sutures of fine silk passed through the divided capsule. Plugging the wound in the liver with gauze should only be had recourse to when sutures fail to arrest the lnemorrhage. Subcutaneous Injuries—Rupture of the Liver.—Rupture of the liver is a comparatively common result of such injuries as a fall from a height on to the feet, a blow from the shaft of a cart, a crush by the wheel of a waggon, or violent flexion of the body. The rupture assumes the form of a tear of the capsule and of the liver substance, and usually implicates the convex aspect of the right lobe (Fig. 143). In extreme cases a large portion, or even an entire lobe, may be torn off and lie free in the peritoneal cavity. The condition is usually fatal as a result of haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, or at a later stage from absorption of bile (cholsemia). Less frequently death results from liver-cell embolism. The clinical features resemble those attending injuries of Fig. 143.—Rupture of Right Lobe of Liver from a crush between buffers.518 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. other abdominal viscera, and as the condition often coexists with other serious abdominal lesions, it is liable to be overlooked. There is tenderness over the liver, rigidity of the abdominal wall below the right costal margin, and the patient complains of pain radiating to the right shoulder. There is usually evidence of internal haemorrhage, with the general features of the blood- less state. The blood gravitates and accumulates in the pelvis and iliac fossae, and dulness may be recognised above Poupart’s ligament on either side, and this area of dulness may be observed to increase from hour to hour. Jaundice occurs only in a small proportion of cases, and after an interval of three or four days. If there is simultaneous injury to the ribs, diaphragm, or lung, the breathing is much embarrassed. Treatment.—An absolute diagnosis rarely being possible, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed if there is any likelihood of the liver having been ruptured, and the sooner the operation is performed the more likely is it to be successful. A vertical incision is made in or near the middle line, and may be supplemented by a transverse one across the right rectus. The rupture having been exposed, the haemorrhage may in some cases be temporarily arrested by compressing the vessels in the gastro-hepatic omentum between the fingers and thumb, one of these being passed into the foramen of Winslow. Large open vessels should be ligatured separately. Whenever possible, the edges of the rupture should be brought together by thick catgut sutures passed with a round needle deeply through the liver substance. If the bleeding is not thereby arrested, recourse must be had to packing with gauze, the end of the gauze being brought out at the wound. The possibility of there being a second rupture should be borne in mind. Injuries of neigh- bouring organs must also be sought for and attended to. The later complications of wounds and of rupture of the liver are for the most part the result of pyogenic infection, and include right-sided pleurisy, sub-phrenic abscess, and abscess of the liver. Diseases.—Hepatic Abscess. — The commonest form of abscess is that which follows on dysenteric ulceration of the intestine. From the frequency with which it affects Europeans who have lived in tropical climates it is commonly spoken of as “ tropical abscess.” It is nearly always solitary, and is usually situated towards the convexity of the right lobe. The pus is mixed with broken-down liver tissue, is chocolate-coloured and glairy, and has a mawkish odour. It is not usually possible to demonstrate organisms in the pus when the abscess is first519 HEPATIC ABSCESS. opened, but on the third or fourth day the amoeba coli or pyogenic organisms may be found. Apart from the tropical variety, abscess of the liver may follow upon suppuration in the biliary passages, or upon any suppurative lesion in the territory of the portal vein, such as appendicitis or typhoid fever. The clinical features are sometimes remarkably latent. The prominent symptoms are pain, fever, and enlargement of the liver. The pain, which affects the right side and radiates to the shoulder, is chiefly due to perihepatitis, and is most marked when the abscess is near the surface of the organ. The fever is remittent, is attended with rigors and sweating, and may simulate that of malaria or of tuberculosis. The enlargement may affect the whole of the liver, or only a portion of it. If the abscess is near the peritoneal surface, there may be distinct friction accompanying the respiratory movements. A large abscess in the right lobe may bulge the thoracic parietes and displace the diaphragm upwards, and there may be a serous or purulent effusion into the right pleural cavity. There is pro- gressive emaciation, but jaundice is exceptional. In children the bulging is more marked because the wall of the thorax is more yielding. The abscess may rupture externally or into one of the adjacent organs ; if into the stomach, the pus is vomited ; if into the colon, it appears in the stools; if into a bronchus, it is expectorated. The risk of exploratory puncture as an aid to diagnosis may have been exaggerated, but as a rule it should only be employed when everything is ready for operation. Hepatic abscess is to be diagnosed from a hydatid cyst, empyema of the pleura or the gall-bladder, a cyst of the pancreas, a sub-phrenic abscess, and a pyo-nephrosis. Treatment.—Those who have most experience of tropical abscess condemn operation by incision when the abscess is deeply seated, and recommend the method introduced by Manson, which consists in tapping the abscess with a large trocar and cannnla, introducing through the cannula the end of a long rubber tube stretched upon a metal rod, and connecting the tube with a suction apparatus (p. 656). If this is impracticable or the symptoms are not relieved, the abscess must be incised. If the abscess projects below the costal margin, it should be opened by the abdominal route; and if the liver is not adherent to the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity must be shut off by means of sutures or gauze-packing before the abscess is incised. An abscess which projects towards the upper and back part of520 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the right lobe must be opened by the trans-pleural route. A large drainage tube is inserted and the cavity of the abscess washed out with salt solution. The drainage tube is gradually shortened, but is not removed until the cavity is obliterated and the discharge has ceased. The multiple abscesses of the liver met with in pyaemia are beyond the reach of surgical treatment. Hydatids of the Liver.—Hydatid cysts may occur in any part of the liver, but, like abscesses, are chiefly met with in the right lobe. The clinical features vary with the size, situation, and number of the cysts. When a large solitary cyst projects down- wards into the abdomen, it forms a painless, smooth, globular tumour in the epigastric or hypochondriac region, obscurely fluctuating, elastic, and resisting. The characteristic “hydatid fremitus ” or thrill may be recognised on palpation if the wall of the cyst is lax. If the cyst wall is thick and calcareous, the tumour may appear to be solid. If the cyst is embedded in the right lobe, it may produce no signs other than hepatic enlargement; if of large size, it may bulge the thoracic parietes, or project upwards towards the pleural cavity. Constitutional symptoms are slight or may be absent. Large cysts cause symptoms refer- able to pressure on the diaphragm, stomach, or abdominal veins. If the cyst suppurates, the features resemble those of hepatic abscess. While spontaneous cure is possible by desiccation and death of the parasites, rupture of the cyst is the commonest natural termination, and it may take place into one of the adjacent abdominal viscera, or into the pleura or lung. The diagnosis of hydatids may be confirmed by withdrawing some of the contents of the cyst through a hollow needle, and demonstrating the presence of scolices or booklets. This procedure is not recom- mended except as an immediate preliminary to operation, because of the risk of leakage through the needle puncture into the peritoneal cavity. Treatment.—Cysts projecting below the costal margin are dealt with by the abdominal route; if the cyst is pedunculated and has a narrow neck, this may be ligatured and divided and the cyst removed; if it is surrounded by liver substance, it is incised and emptied ; the cyst wall can frequently be shelled out entire. ' If the fluid contents are aseptic, the cavity may be closed again by sutures; if they are purulent, it must be drained, but the cure of thick-walled cysts by means of drainage is very tedious. Cysts bulging the thoracic parietes and pro- jecting upwards towards the lung should be dealt with by the trans-pleural route.521 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER, The recurrence of hydatids after operation, formerly ascribed to portions of the eyst wall or daughter cysts having been left behind, is believed to be due to the microscopical elements in the fluid—the scolices—and the recurrence is brought about by the dispersion of these elements in the wound and its surround- ings. To prevent this, Deve recommends that before opening the cyst, it should be injected with a 1 per cent, solution of formalin, which is allowed to remain in the cyst for five minutes. This kills the scolices with the greatest certainty. Syphilitic Gummata.—These form rounded nodular tumours, which may be palpated if they project from the anterior surface of an enlarged liver. A solitary gumma, especially if pedun- culated, may simulate a new growth or an abnormal lobe of the liver. Tumours.—Innocent tumours, such as adenoma and angioma, are very rare. The adenoma is a rounded, encapsulated tumour which, if solitary, may lend itself to removal by operation. Apart from hydatids, two forms of cyst are met with in the liver, the solitary and the multiple. The solitary cyst projects downwards from the free margin of the liver and may attain such dimensions as to be mistaken for a pancreatic or mesenteric cyst. It should be enucleated. In multiple cystic disease, the liver is greatly enlarged and honeycombed with cysts, and the condition may be associated with similar disease in the kidneys (p. 649). It is not amenable to treatment. Primary cancer is a rare disease, which usually escapes recog- nition until it has reached a stage at which surgical interference is of no avail. The same may be said of sarcoma. The chief clinical feature is the rapid enlargement of the organ. In a few instances it has been possible to excise a segment of the liver containing a malignant growth. For the successful removal of hepatic tumours, it is essential that they should be growing from an easily accessible part of the liver; the presence of a pedicle and the absence of adhesions to surrounding structures are favouring conditions. The pedicle being controlled by an elastic ligature, the liver tissue is divided with the knife or cautery, and the larger blood-vessels secured by ligatures. The wound in the liver is closed with catgut sutures; when this is not possible or does not arrest the bleeding, it is packed with gauze, the end of which is brought out through the wound in the abdominal wall. The dressings may be stained with bile for a few days. Acquired Deformities and Displacements of the Liver.— Riedel's lobe is a downward projection from the right lobe,522 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. immediately to the right of the gall-bladder; it forms a smooth, painless, elastic tumour, sometimes freely movable, sometimes fixed by adhesions. It is very commonly associated with the presence of gall-stones. It has been mistaken for a movable kidney. The deformity of the liver due to tight-lacing consists in a portion of the right lobe being segmented off from the rest, to which it remains connected by a bridge of variable thickness. The constricted lobe appears to be separate from the rest of the organ and acquires a mobility independent of it, and as it becomes thickened, and its lower margin rounded, it may closely simulate a floating kidney. For examination the patient should be placed on her left side • the abnormal lobe sinks towards the middle line, and the fingers may then pass between it and the kidney. The deformity is rarely attended by definite symptoms. If such are present, and are not relieved by a supporting belt, the segmented portion may be fixed to the parietes by suture, or it may be removed. Hepatoptosis—Prolapse of the Liver.—The liver is held in position by the vena cava, by the suspensory ligaments, and by the intra-abclominal pressure. When the ligaments are stretched and the abdominal muscles have lost their tone, the organ descends to a lower level in the abdomen. The posterior part remains fixed by the vena cava, while the anterior moves down- wards through part of a circle, so that the upper convex surface becomes anterior; the right lobe becomes flattened from before backwards, and in many cases there is a deep transverse furrow across the anterior surface, in which the peritoneum is thick and of an opaque white colour. If freely movable and capable of being replaced in its normal situation, it is described as a wandering liver ■ if fixed by adhesions in its new situation, it is said to be dislocated. Prolapse of the liver is often associated with the descent of other abdominal organs, especially the right kidney, the stomach, and the intestine—a condition to which the terms splanchnop- tosis or Glenard’s disease is applied. Clinical Features.—A tumour having the physical characters of the liver is found in the middle or lower part of the abdomen, and the normal liver dulness is replaced by resonance. There may be no subjective symptoms, and the condition is only discovered accidentally; or there may be complaint of pain and a feeling of weight in the right hypochondrium, aggravated by exertion, and relieved by lying down. In some cases the symptoms simulate those due to gall-stones. ■ Neurasthenia may be the most prominent feature in the case.ANATOMY OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 523 Treatment.—The abdominal walls may be supported, and the liver kept in place by a suitable belt or bandage applied while the patient is recumbent. Symptoms of neurasthenia should be treated. When these measures fail, the question of fixing the liver in its normal position—hepatopexy—must.be considered. The patient is placed in the exaggerated Trendelenbrug position, so that the liver may fall back into its normal place. An incision is made parallel with and below the right costal margin, and the upper edge of the divided parietal peritoneum is folded over the lower edge of the right lobe of the liver and fixed there with cat- gut sutures. The wound is then closed. For at least a month after the operation the patient should remain recumbent, with the foot of the bed elevated, and an abdominal belt should be worn when the upright posture is resumed. Surgical Treatment of Ascites due to Cirrhosis of the Liver.—In uncomplicated cases of ascites resulting from hepatic cirrhosis, where repeated tapping of the abdomen has failed to afford relief, the question of bringing about artificially a collateral circulation between the portal and systemic veins may be considered. This procedure, suggested by Talma of Utrecht, was first carried out successfully by Rutherford Morison in 1895. It should be carried out as early in the disease as possible, before the absorptive functions of the peritoneum have been destroyed by chronic inflammatory changes. Several tappings should precede the operation. The operation itself consists in opening the abdomen above the umbilicus, withdrawing the fluid, and bringing about adhesions between the great omentum and the parietal peritoneum; or the omentum may be drawn out and pushed into a pocket prepared for its reception in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. A drainage tube is passed into the pouch of Douglas through an opening above the pubes, in order to draw off the fluid and keep the peritoneal cavity dry, and so allow of close vascular adhesions forming between the omentum and the parietes. Those who suffer from alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver are necessarily bad subjects for operation, and the mortality is therefore relatively high. The operation should not be performed in the presence of cardiac, pulmonary, or renal disease, nor in cases in which the cirrhosis is due to syphilis. The Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Surgical Anatomy.—The gall-bladder lies against the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. Normally the fundus projects slightly524 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. beyond the free margin of the liver opposite the ninth or tenth costal cartilage. Under pathological conditions, it may be displaced farther to the right, or it may be found high up beneath the liver and completely covered by it. From the fundus, the bladder gradually narrows until its neck ends in a sigmoid curve, the terminal portion of which turns downwards to join the cystic duct near the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. The fundus and inferior aspect of the bladder are invested by peritoneum ; the superior aspect is connected to the under surface of the liver by connective tissue, and under normal conditions is easily separated from it. The cystic duct passes backwards, down- Round Under surface of liver Duodenum portion) Right Suspensory muscle of duodenum Duodeno- jejunal junction Fig. 144.—The connections of the Biliary and Pancreatic Ducts. (After Zuckerkandl.) wards, and to the left for a distance of an inch and a half, and joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle to form the common bile-duct (Fig. 144). The hepatic duct is formed by the junction of a branch from each lobe of the liver, issuing at the transverse fissure, and it descends within the gastro-hepatic omentum to join the cystic duct. The common bile-duct, formed by the junction of the hepatic and cystic ducts, is about three inches in length, and passes downwards and back- wards in the gastro-hepatic omentum, lying in front of the portal vein, and having the hepatic artery on its left side. Along its course are several lymphatic glands, which, in inflammatory affections of the biliary passages, may become enlarged and indurated, and may be mistaken for gall-stones when felt with the finger. If the finger is passed into theANATOMY OF THE BILE-DUCTS 525 foramen of Winslow, the common duct may be felt in the gastro-hepatic omentum, where it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen. The duct then passes behind the first part of the duodenum, and is continued downwards on the inner and posterior wall of the second part in close relation to the head of the pancreas, and for a short distance in contact with the pancreatic duct—duct of Wirsung. Along with this duct it perforates the muscular coat of the duodenum, and after running obliquely for three-quarters of an inch in the submucosa, opens into the bowel by a common orifice, three inches beyond the pylorus. Just behind the orifice, the duct is dilated to form the ampulla of Vater, in which a gall-stone may lodge. In two-thirds of subjects there exists an acces- sory pancreatic duct (duct of Santorini), and in about 10 per cent, the common bile-duct and the duct of Wirsung open by separate orifices into the duodenum (Fig. 146). Although the cystic duct normally admits a No. 5 catheter, on account of the way in which its mucous membrane is thrown into folds the passage of a probe along the duct is always difficult, and may be impossible. The common duct is slightly larger than the cystic duct, but at its entrance into the duodenum it is so narrow that it only admits a fine probe. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder is reticulated and is abundantly furnished with mucous glands. The gall-bladder forms a reservoir of bile, but this function is apparently unimportant, as the gall-bladder may be excised without detriment to health. The gall-bladder is related to the hepatic flexure of the colon, and towards its neck to the first part of the duodenum, and occasionally to the piylorus. Branches from the lower four dorsal and upper two lumbar nerves pass along the diaphragm to the common and cystic ducts and neck of the gall-bladder, accounting for the deep- seated piain in biliary colic and the attendant spiasm of the diaphragm. Affections of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Inflammation of the gall-bladder — cholecystitis, and of the ducts—cholangitis, are very commonly associated with the deposition from the bile of its solid constituents in the form of sand or stones — cholelithiasis, and they are attended with symptoms which to a considerable extent are common to both. It will facilitate the study of the subject if the chief symptoms which are common to inflammation and stone are described in the first instance. Biliary colic is the name given to the agonising attack of abdominal pain which is due to spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat of the gall-bladder or bile-duct. The muscular spasm appears to result from irritation of the mucous membrane, as, for example, by inflammation or by the movement of a stone, and the seat and radiation of the pain vary according to the part of the biliary passages affected. When the spasm affects the gall-bladder and cystic duct, the pain, which at the outset is referred to the epigastrium, tends to become located below the right costal margin and to radiate round the right side526 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. towards a point beneath the right scapula. When the spasm affects the common bile-duct, it tends to remain localised to the epigastric region, but may extend also a little to the left and through to the back between the shoulders. Severe attacks of colic are attended with a degree of shock and a feeling of cold which may amount to a rigor. The muscles of the abdominal wall below the right costal margin are rigidly contracted and do not move with respiration; there is usually retching and vomit- ing, and the vomiting is not infrequently followed by sudden and complete relief of the pain. The patient, once relieved, feels quite well, and beyond a little rigidity of the right rectus, presents no physical signs of disease. On one occasion we had the opportunity of seeing the gall-bladder (at an operation) during the height of an attack of colic; it was tense, glistening, of a pink colour, tightly distended, the muscular coat being in a state of tonic contraction. Tenderness is a common symptom, especially when the inflammation has spread from the gall-bladder or bile-ducts to the parietal peritoneum; in gall-bladder affections tenderness is situated below the right costal margin; in affections of the common duct it is located to the middle line between the ziphoid and the umbilicus. Jaundice, the yellow discoloration of the skin and conjunctiva due to the dissemination of bile pigment by the blood, is absent in affections confined to the gall-bladder, but when the flow of bile from the liver into the intestine is interfered with, as, for example, when the common duct is obstructed by a stone or pressed upon by a tumour, it becomes a prominent feature. Enlargement of the Gall-Bladder.—In many of the conditions associated with inflammation and with stone in the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, the gall-bladder does not project below the margin of the liver, and is therefore inaccessible to clinical examination. It may, however, become so large that it projects downwards towards the umbilicus as a palpable tumour. The contents of such a gall-bladder vary: if the cystic duct is patent, it may contain bile; if, on the other hand, this duct is blocked, bile is no longer present and is replaced by mucus or pus. The term hydrops has been applied when the bladder is distended with mucus. A distended gall-bladder forms a pear-shaped tumour directed downwards and forwards from the right costal margin towards a point in the middle line just below the umbilicus. Unless in a stout person or in one with rigid abdominal muscles, it is felt as a smooth, rounded, tense tumour, the lower extremity of which527 GALL-STONES. is freely movable. When there are adhesions, the tumour is less defined and more fixed, and when it is inflamed it is tender on pressure. In some cases the distended gall-bladder is best felt when the patient is in the genu-pectoral position. A distended gall-bladder is liable to be mistaken for other abdominal tumours, and particularly for a floating kidney. A gall-bladder tumour is continuous above with the liver, its lower extremity is movable from side to side, and it is always found in the same situation at every examination ; it can be pushed backwards into the belly, but always comes forward again into its former position. In stout patients, and in those with rigid abdominal muscles, it may be necessary to examine the patient under a general anaesthetic. Cases have been recorded in which a distended gall-bladder reached down, to the symphysis pubis or even into the pelvis, and was mistaken for an ovarian cyst. Enlargement of the liver—as recognised by percussion or by feeling the lower margin of the organ projected down below the costal margin—is exceptional in inflammatory affections of the biliary passages; it is more often present in syphilis, cancer, and in hypertrophic cirrhosis. Characters and Formation of Gall-Stones.—A solitary stone is usually shaped like an egg or a hazel-nut; multiple stones are usually facetted (Fig. 145). They are usually firm and hard, but are sometimes so soft that they can be crushed between the fingers. Pure cholesterin stones are rare; mixed forms con- taining bilirubin or biliverdin and calcium salts are those commonly met with. They are almost exclusively formed in the gall-bladder, very rarely in the hepatic or common ducts. The X-rays are of little value in the diagnosis of gall-stones, as a definite shadow is only seen with stones rich in lime salts, and these are very rare. Thick bile is even more opaque to the rays than cholesterin. The formation of gall-stones is always associated with catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane following upon bacterial infection of the biliary passages. The infection is usually conveyed by the blood of the portal vein as it passes through the liver, the organisms reaching the bile and thus being carried through the gall-bladder and ducts ; less commonly it passes up directly from the duodenum through the common duct. Typhoid and colon bacilli are those most constantly present, but other pyogenic organisms are occasionally met with. While bacterial infection is the essential cause of gall-stones, certain accessory conditions favour their formation, for example,528 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. catarrh of the stomach or duodenum, induced by indiscretions in diet, or conditions which lead to stagnation of bile in the gall-bladder. The latter factor is present in women past middle age who lead a sedentary life, and whose clothing, by com- pressing the abdomen, tends to interfere with respiratory movement. Stones in the Gall-Bladder and Cystic Duct. — Gall- stones are frequently found in the gall-bladder on post-mortem examination without having given rise to any symptoms during life. The occurrence of symptoms is partly determined by movement of the stone, but chiefly by the addition of inflamma- tion of the gall-bladder and of the parts in its vicinity. The most con- stant symptom of stone in the gall-bladder or cystic duct is biliary colic, which usually recurs at irregular intervals over months or years. The attacks, which usually last for two or three hours, may supervene without obvious cause, or they are determined by the ingestion of food, by muscular exertion, by coughing or vomiting, or Bladder of a Woman suffering from recurrent by the disturbance of the biliary colic. abdominal contents as- sociated with child-birth. One or more of these recurrent attacks may be followed by evanescent jaundice, so slight as easily to escape the notice of the patient, and only lasting a day or two. The presence or absence of jaundice, therefore, is not to be relied upon in the clinical recognition of stone in the gall-bladder, and when present it is due to the spread of infection from the gall-bladder to the common duct, or to a stone impacted in the cystic duct exerting compression on the common duct. Examination of the faeces immediately after an attack of colic may disclose one or more calculi, but this is exceptional. In the interval between the attacks the patient may enjoy normal health, or may suffer from a sensation of weight or dragging and other discomforts, and may have to lead a semi-GALL-STONES. 529 invalid life. When the cystic duct is blocked, the gall-bladder, whether distended with stones or with mucus, may be felt as an abdominal tumour. In the majority of cases, however, when there is a history of recurrent biliary colic lasting over months or years, the bladder is small and contracted, and is so deeply placed beneath the liver that it is out of reach of the examining lingers. There is always, however, tenderness beneath the costal margin, and a tendency to contraction of the right rectus when pressure is made upon it. The best way of detecting tender- ness in these cases is that suggested by Naunyn—namely, to press the fingers under the right costal arch below the hepatic margin, and then ask the patient to take a deep inspiration. When the sensitive gall-bladder impinges upon the fingers inspiration suddenly ceases. The diagnosis of stone in the gall-bladder or cystic duct is to be made—(1) from affections of the pylorus and duodenum, especially ulcer and cancer; (2) from lesions of the vermiform appendix, the seat of tenderness during the attack being the most important differentiating feature; (3) from right renal colic, in which the pain passes through the loin, is most intense behind, and, if there is tenderness on pressure, this is greatest just below the twelfth rib posteriorly ; (4) from lesions of the pancreas. An attack of biliary colic may be simulated by the onset of diaphragmatic pleurisy. Prognosis.—Apart from their capacity for causing a great deal of suffering and ill-health, gall-stones which are allowed to remain in the bladder may become complicated by dangerous septic complications; and by causing long-continued irritation they may eventually determine the growth of cancer. Treatment.—While medical measures are capable of relieving or palliating the symptoms, the only certain means of getting rid of the offending gall-stones and of curing the inflammatory con- dition of the gall-bladder which always accompanies their presence, is to remove them by operation. On opening the abdomen there is often found evidence of peri-cholecystitis in the form of adhesions between the gall-bladder and the parts in the vicinity —pylorus, colon, omentum, parietal peritoneum—and, in cases of long standing, the walls of the gall-bladder are thickened and the viscus itself is often contracted and hidden beneath the liver. The incision is made vertically through the right rectus, or parallel with the costal margin. The region of the gall-bladder is explored with the fingers, and, if feasible, the lower edge of the liver should be drawn first downwards and then out at the wound so as to expose the whole extent of the gall-bladder and VOL. II—34530 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the portion of cystic duct that descends to meet the com- mon duct. If the wall of the gall-bladder is normal or but little altered, the operation of cholecystotomy is performed. The peritoneal cavity having been packed off with gauze, the fundus is incised, any fluid that escapes is mopped up, the stones are removed with a bent scoop assisted by the pressure of the fingers outside the viscus; special attention is paid to the cystic duct, as it is essential that any stone impacted in it should be removed. The end of a rubber tube, eight to ten inches in length, is secured in the bladder by a purse-string suture; the edges of the gall-bladder are then invaginated along with the tube by a second purse-string suture, so that when the tube is removed peritoneal surfaces are in contact and rapidly unite. The tube is connected with a rubber bag, supported outside the dressings, to collect the bile, which, provided the cystic duct is patent, is certain to escape. The tube is removed at the end of a week or ten days and the fistula allowed to heal. If prolonged drainage is required, the edges of the wound in the gall-bladder are stitched to the edges of the parietal peritoneum. If the walls of the gall-bladder are greatly thickened and are converted into fibrous tissue, or if the cystic duct is the seat of stricture, it is preferable, provided there is no doubt as to the patency of the common duct, to excise the gall-bladder— cholecystectomy. The gall-bladder is shelled out from its bed on the under surface of the liver, and the cystic duct is clamped near its junction with the hepatic duct and divided where it springs from the gall-bladder; the mucous membrane in the portion of duct projecting beyond the clamp is dissected out or cauterised, and the fibro-muscular coat is invaginated with fine Lembert sutures in successive tiers. If there is an infective element, one end of a cigarette drain is stitched with catgut over the stump of the cystic duct, and the other end brought out at the wound. The edges of the raw surface on the under aspect of the liver, formerly occupied by the gall-bladder, are brought together by a continuous catgut suture. In very stout patients, and when the gall-bladder is buried in adhesions, the danger of cholecystectomy should determine the choice in favour of drainage. Gall-Stone Obstruction of the Common Bile-Duct.— When a stone escapes from the gall-bladder through the cystic duct into the common duct, it may pass through the bile papilla into the duodenum and be passed with the motions; more frequently, however, it remains in the common bile-duct and causes obstruction of it. The common duct is funnel-shaped,GALL-STONES IN COMMON BILE-DUCT. 531 gradually narrowing as it descends to the duodenum, hence a stone which may fit quite loosely in the upper part may be checked at a point lower down. Spasm of the muscular fibres in the wall of the duct plays an important part in arresting the progress of the stone. In a comparatively short time the stone increases in size, the added deposit being frequently sufficient to remove all traces of facets, and it is often joined by others enter- ing from the cystic duct. Mayo Robson estimates the frequency of concretions in the common duct at 40 per cent, of the total number of gall-stone cases observed by him, and that in 80 per- cent. of cases of stone in the common duct the concretions are multiple. The stones may lodge in any part of the duct, one of the common sites being in the dilated portion just before its entrance into the duodenum, and a stone impacted at this point may also press on the duct of the pancreas. The presence of a stone in the common duct is always associated with bacterial infection and catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane — cholangitis. In the case of a recent stone the cholangitis is of a mild character; but in chronic obstruction it tends to assume a suppurative type, the duct becoming greatly dilated, septic products accumulating within it, and superficial ulcers forming in the mucous membrane. The infection may spread along the hepatic ducts to those within the liver; to the portal vein, giving rise to pyelo-phlebitis; and to the peritoneum, leading to the formation of adhesions with the omentum, colon, stomach, liver, and gall-bladder, which may greatly increase the difficulty of an operation to expose the common duct. The ulceration, which commences in the mucous membrane, may spread through the other coats of the duct, and lead to perforation and the escape of the stone, either into the general peritoneal cavity or into a cavity shut off by adhesions. The inflammation in the common bile-duct may spread to the ducts of the pancreas and set up disease in that organ, and, if the pancreatic duct is obstructed at its entrance into the duodenum by a stone implicating both ducts, the ducts of the pancreas also become dilated. The liver may become the seat of cirrhosis, or of secondary abcesses scattered throughout its substance. In chronic obstruction of the common duct, the gall-bladder is nearly always small and contracted as a result of repeated attacks of cholecystitis, it frequently contains stones, and it may be buried in adhesions resulting from antecedent peri-cholecystitis. Clinical Features.—In the acute or recent form, the symptoms closely resemble those resulting from stone in the cystic duct;532 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the colic, however, remains located in the centre of the epigastric area and radiates through to the back between the shoulders. Tenderness also is most marked in the middle line. Jaundice is a constant sign in common-duct lithiasis, though it is often revealed only by an icteric tinge of the conjunctivse. After a few days the symptoms may suddenly disappear. This may be due to the stone having been passed into the duodenum ; or to relief of tension by bile and inflammatory products getting past the obstruction. In chronic obstruction of the common duct, pain is usually present, but the attacks of colic are not as a rule so severe as in cases of recent obstruction. In cases of floating stone, pain may be absent. The jaundice varies greatly in degree from time to time, the variation depending upon a ball-valve action of the stone, which floats to and fro in the dilated duct, and on the degree of cholangitis. When the stone is impacted in the ampulla of Vater, the jaundice is extreme and persistent. The urine contains a variable amount of bile, the motions may be clay-coloured or may show some of the alterations associated with disease of the pancreas (p. 544). The infective element is shown by the occurrence of irregular fever and sometimes by pronounced rigors, so that the recurrence of ague-like seizures associated with remittent jaundice is very characteristic of chronic gall-stone obstruction of the common duct. The gall-bladder cannot be felt, the liver and spleen may show some degree of enlargement, and the general health undergoes progressive deterioration. One of the signs of this is an increased liability to haemorrhage, especially when the pancreas also is affected, and this may prove a serious complication in regard to operations for the relief of the condition. Diagnosis.—Chronic obstruction of the common bile-duct may be simulated by malignant disease of the bile-ducts, of the head of the pancreas, or of the liver itself. A history of recurrent biliary colic, of variation in the intensity of the jaundice, of irregular pyrexia, and the presence of tenderness in the central area of the epigastrium are in favour of the disease being due to gall-stones in the common duct. “ In cases of chronic jaundice due to obstruction of the common bile-duct, a contracted gall-bladder signifies that the obstruction is due to stone ; a dilatation of the gall-bladder, that the obstruction is due to causes other than stone ” (C our noisier's law). The coexistence of jaundice with a distended gall-bladder, therefore, is against the diagnosis of gall-stones; but this, like other laws, is subject to exceptions, as, for example, when gall-stoneOBSTRUCTION OF COMMON BILE-DUCT. 533 obstruction of the common duct is associated with an impacted stone in the cystic duct and distension of the gall-bladder with mucus. Treatment of Stone in the Common Duct.—The removal of the gall-stones by operation is the only treatment to be recommended, and, if performed before the onset of septic complications, it is not a dangerous operation. The lower thorax having been projected forwards by a firm pillow or sandbag placed under the back, and the table slightly tilted so that the head of the patient is raised about six inches, a vertical incision is made through the right rectus near its outer border from the costal margin downwards. If more room is needed, the upper end of the incision is carried upwards and inwards, dividing the fibres of the rectus muscle (Mayo Robson). After a preliminary exploration has been made to determine the presence and site of the stone, a gauze pad is placed in the right kidney pouch, a second towards the middle line, and a third so as to cover the intestines. The liver and gall-bladder are then freed from adhesions and all bleeding points ligatured. The gall-bladder, with the liver around it, is gently dragged downwards from under the shelter of the ribs, and then turned upwards, so as to bring the cystic and common ducts nearly into a straight line and to render the common duct more accessible. If the stone is situated in the supra-duodenal portion of the duct, that is, the part lying in the free edge of the gastro- hepatic omentum, the stone, which will often be found to slip about in the dilated duct, is grasped between the index finger and thumb of the left hand, and the duct incised over the stone —choledochotomy. The stone having been removed, the ducts are explored both upwards and downwards by means of a scoop, or preferably with the finger if the dilatation of the duct permits. The duct is then either closed by suture or drained by a rubber tube pushed upwards for about an inch towards the liver. If the stone is in the retro-duodenal portion of the duct, the peritoneum is incised vertically, about one and a half inches to the right of the duodenum, so as to permit of turning the second part of the duodenum over to the left, thus exposing its under surface. The duct is then incised and the stone removed. If the stone is in the third portion of the duct—in the ampulla of Yater—it is best reached by opening the duodenum from the front through a vertical incision, and incising the orifice of the ampulla so as to permit of the extraction of the stone. This operation is known as duodeno-clioledochotomy, and was first performed by M‘Burney of New York, in 1891.534 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. After removal of the stones by one or other of the above methods, it is necessary to drain the common bile-duct, either directly by a tube introduced into its interior through the opening made for removing the stone, or indirectly by a tube inserted into the gall-bladder. A cigarette drain should also be placed so as to drain the area outside the duct. The drains are left in position for from three to ten days. After-Treatment.—The patient must so regulate his life as to diminish the tendency to the formation of fresh stones. The bowels must be made to act regularly by the use of saline laxatives, preferably Carlsbad salts ; hot water should be drunk three or four times a day, a sufficient amount of exercise taken, and the diet regulated so as to obviate any disturbance of digestion. A course of treatment at Harrogate or Carlsbad is of service in getting rid of the chronic gastro-duodenal catarrh that so frequently accompanies cholelithiasis. The occasional return of colic within a few months of operation does not necessarily mean a return of stone; it may be due to adhesions round a crippled gall-bladder, which does not empty properly. Sequels of Gall-Stone Affections. Adhesions frequently form from the extension of inflamma- tion to the peritoneum, and involve the omentum and colon, pylorus and duodenum, the liver and gall-bladder. They increase the difficulty of operations for the removal of gall-stones, and may add to the sufferings of the patient by interfering with the functions of adjacent organs, notably of the pylorus, so that the stomach may be unable to empty itself. If adhesions are diagnosed, an operation may be undertaken to separate them ; to prevent their re-formation, the right edge of the omentum may be tacked up between the gall-bladder and the pylorus. Stricture of the bile-ducts is a rare sequel of gall-stones. It results from ulceration of the wall of the duct where it has been pressed upon by a calculus. Stricture of the cystic duct results in gradual distension of the gall-bladder with mucus, so that it forms a palpable abdominal tumour; the treatment consists in removing the gall-bladder. Stricture of the common duct causes jaundice of gradually increasing intensity, enlarge- ment of the liver, and the gall-bladder, if not already shrunken from gall-stone irritation, becomes distended with inspissated bile and forms a palpable tumour. The condition is rarely diagnosed with certainty, being usually mistaken for an impacted535 FISTULA. calculus, and is only recognised after the abdomen is opened. It may be possible to get rid of the stricture by a plastic operation similar to that for stricture at the pylorus. When this is not feasible a communication should be made between the gall-bladder and the intestine (cholecyst-enterostomy), or between the dilated duct above the stricture and the intestine (choledoch- enterostomy) ; failing either of these, the symptoms may be relieved by establishing a permanent biliary fistula. Abdominal Abscess.—This results from the ulceration of a stone through the wall of the gall-bladder or bile-duct into an area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions. The abscess is usually situated between the right costal margin and the umbilicus, and, if left to itself, may discharge at or near the umbilicus, giving vent to pus and portions of broken- down gall-stones. The treatment consists in incision and drainage of the abscess, and at a subsequent operation the gall-bladder should be explored and emptied. Intestinal Obstruction. — When a large stone ulcerates through the wall of the gall-bladder into the duodenum, it is liable in its course down the jejunum to be grasped by the wall of the bowel and cause symptoms of acute obstruction (p. 491). Fistula.—Fistula; may form when cases of impacted gall- stone are left to nature. Internal fistidce are those in which the communication is between the gall-bladder and an adjacent hollow viscus. Those which communicate with the bowel do not give rise to any symptoms, and are only discovered accidentally during the course of an operation. When the communication is with the stomach, the bile is poured into that organ, and, while this may be attended with no symptoms, there is sometimes persistent vomiting of bile. If operation is called for, the gall-bladder should be freed from the stomach and excised, and the opening in the stomach closed by sutures. External fistula; open on the skin and usually owe their origin to the rupture of an abscess which has formed in relation to an impacted stone; the skin orifice is usually near the umbilicus. The persistence of a fistula after an operation for gall-stones is due either to incomplete removal of the stones, or to the edges of the wound in the gall-bladder having been stitched to the skin. When the cystic duct is blocked the fistula discharges mucus only; this is merely a source of inconvenience and rarely calls for operation. Removal of the gall-bladder is sometimes indicated. When the fistula discharges bile—biliary fistula—the patient536 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. is much distressed because of the amount of discharge—from one to two pints of bile in twenty-four hours—necessitating the wearing of an apparatus to prevent soiling of the clothes. Experience has shown that the escape of all the bile externally is not attended with any disturbance of digestion or nutrition. If the common duct is patent, only a small amount of bile may escape externally, but, if it is obstructed, all the bile escapes. The treatment depends upon the condition giving rise to the fistula, the most satisfactory cases being those in which there is a stone or other obstruction capable of being removed by operation. When the obstruction does not lend itself to removal, the escape of bile externally may be obviated by the performance of cholecyst - enterostomy or choledoch- enterostomy. Inflammatory Affections of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts.—While these affections are nearly always met with in association with gall-stones, they may result from pyogenic infection alone, colon and typhoid bacilli being the most common organisms present. Inflammation of the Gall-Bladder — Cholecystitis. — The walls of the gall-bladder are infiltrated and the organ itself may be distended with bile and mucus. When the inflamma- tion is of long standing or has frequently recurred, the gall- bladder usually undergoes cicatricial contraction and is retracted under cover of the liver, its cavity being greatly diminished in size. From the extension of inflammation to the peritoneal coat adhesions are often present. The clinical features are the same as when cholecystitis is associated with gall-stones, except that the colic is less severe ; tenderness below the costal margin and rigidity of the upper part of the right rectus are prominent features. If the condition resists treatment by medical measures, the gall-bladder should be opened and drained, or, if there is any doubt as to the patency of the cystic duct, the gall-bladder should be removed. When the cholecystitis goes on to the formation of pus, the condition is known as empyema or purulent catarrh of the gall-bladder. It is almost invariably associated with gall-stones, and in practically every case the cystic duct is obstructed. The size of the gall-bladder varies : it may be small, contracted, and buried beneath the liver as a result of previous attacks of cholecystitis ; or it may be so enlarged as to form a pear-shaped tumour with thickened walls and fixed to the neighbouring parts by adhesions.537 CHOLECYSTITIS. The patient usually gives a history of previous attacks of biliary colic, but, instead of these disappearing, there develops a persistent pain and tenderness beneath the costal margin, and there is frequently a palpable tumour due to enlargement of the gall-bladder. The temperature is usually elevated two or three degrees. If the condition is left to itself, the gall-bladder usually becomes adherent to the parietes ; the pus makes its way to the surface and forms a fistula, which discharges pus, and later, mucus ; the escape of the gall-stones by the fistula is exceptional. The treatment is essentially operative, and consists in opening the inflamed bladder, emptying it of its contents and providing for drainage. If the gall-bladder is adherent to the parietal peritoneum, it is opened within the adherent areaif not, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze before the gall- bladder is opened. The fluid contents should be drawn off through an exploring needle before the viscus is incised. When the gall-bladder and cystic duct are readily accessible, chole- cystectomy may be preferred. Acute Infective or Phlegmonous Cholecystitis.—This is a rare form, first described by Courvoisier in 1890, and runs a very rapid course, usually terminating fatally in a few days from septic peritonitis. It may be regarded as analogous to the sloughing or gangrenous form of inflammation in the vermiform appendix. It is generally associated with the presence of gall- stones, but the gravity of the condition depends upon the fact that infective peritonitis is induced before there is time for the pouring out of a protective exudate and the formation of adhe- sions. The gall-bladder is enlarged, and its walls gradually become softened and gangrenous and readily give way, forming one or more perforations. The contents — pus mixed with bile—have a foul odour. The clinical features are those of acute peritonitis originating in the right hypochondrium, with rigors, sweating, and great prostration. The local signs are those of peritonitis, limited first to the region of the gall-bladder. On opening the abdomen there are the usual evidences of peritonitis, and the wall of the gall-bladder is discoloured and smeared with pus. The gall- bladder should be drained or excised, and the usual measures adopted for the prevention of the spread of septic peritonitis. Cancer of the gall-bladder and cystic duct is not uncommon; it is believed to result from the long-continued irritation of gall- stones, and from papillary growths, which are sometimes met with in the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder and appear to538 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. predispose to the development of cancer. The walls of the bladder are uniformly infiltrated with cancer, so that the gall- bladder is transformed into a hard tumour, usually projecting beyond the edge of the liver. The disease appears to remain localised for a considerable time before extension takes place to the glands in the omentum, and to the adjacent substance of the liver. The diagnosis is always difficult and often impossible before opening the abdomen. The disease is more common in women, and there is usually a history of biliary colic extending over a lengthened period. The patient complains of discomfort, scarcely amounting to pain, in the region of the gall-bladder. When there is an associated empyema of the gall-bladder, the pain and tenderness are much more marked. As the tumour increases in size, a rounded mass is felt below the costal margin, nodular on the surface, and more fixed and harder than a gall-bladder which is merely distended. When the disease is limited, excision of the gall-bladder, the adjacent portion of liver, and the associated glands affords a fair prospect of cure. Cancer of the Hepatic and Common Bile-Ducts.—Cancer is most often situated at the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts or in the ampulla of Vater. In nearly all cases there is a history of gall-stones, and, as the symptoms of both diseases are usually present, the diagnosis is difficult. There is progressive jaundice, with increase in size of the liver, and the gall-bladder is usually distended and easily palpated. To relieve the symptoms the gall-bladder may be opened and a permanent biliary fistula established, or, if practicable, chole- cyst-enterostomy should be performed. Injuries of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts.—Puncture or laceration of the gall-bladder is not common, but may result from gunshot or stab wounds, or from the passage of a heavy vehicle over the upper part of the abdomen. At first there are no symptoms distinctive of these injuries, and there is no immediate risk to life, for, normal bile being sterile, septic peritonitis does not occur. In the course of a few days the patient becomes jaundiced from absorption of the bile extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, and examination of the abdomen reveals the presence of free fluid, sometimes in enormous quantity. The fluid consists of serum, bile, and blood, with flakes of fibrin, and there is a deposit of fibrin on the surface of the serous membrane. In penetrating wounds there is the usual risk of septic infection, and bile and blood may be discharged externally. The prognosis is on the whole more favourable than in similar lesions of other539 RUPTURE OF GALL-BLADDER abdominal viscera. If the condition is diagnosed, the abdomen should be opened, the fluid removed, and the peritoneal cavity washed out. If the gall-bladder is merely torn, it may be stitched up, but if much damaged, it should be removed. A drain is placed in the peritoneal cavity.540 CHAPTER XXIX. THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. Pancreas. — Surgical anatomy — Pancreatitis : Varieties — Cysts : Varieties ; Situations—Malignant tumours—Pancreatic litliiasis— Injuries. Spleen.—Surgical anatomy : Removal of the spleen—Injuries : rupture, stabs, and gunshot wounds—Abscess—Hydatids—Primary Sarcoma —Enlargements of the Spleen—Wandering and Dislocated Spleen. The Pancreas. Surgical Anatomy.—The pancreas is deeply placed at the back of the abdomen, the greater part of the gland lying in the epigastrium behind the stomach, while the tail and adjacent part of the body extend into the left hypochondrium. It is placed behind the peritoneum, the lesser sac of which lies directly in front of the gland. The head is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum, the neck crosses the middle line opposite the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebra, and the tail touches the spleen. The termination of the main duct of the pancreas curves down to meet the common bile-duct, and the two pierce the wall of the duodenum obliquely and open by a common orifice (Fig. 146). Functions.—-The pancreas not only secretes pancreatic juice, which is poured into the intestine and plays an important part in the digestion of all food materials, but it is believed to furnish to the blood an internal secretion which is intimately related to the general metabolic phenomena of the body and particularly to carbo-hydrate metabolism. If this second secretion is absent as a result of extensive disease of the organ, one form of diabetes ensues. If the main duct of the pancreas—duct of Wirsung —is obstructed, the duct of Santorini, or other accessory ducts, may be equal to the task of conveying the pancreatic juice into the duodenum, and the physiological conditions are undisturbed. If, however, the accessory ducts are incapable of performing satisfactorily this increased duty, the pancreatic secretion is dammed up within the gland with serious consequences. It has been shown experimentally that, if the pancreas is tied across with two ligatures and divided between them, death takes place within twenty-four hours with all the phenomena of acute pancreatitis. If a portion of such a pancreas is injected into another animal, it also dies within twenty-four hours with the same phenomena. It would appear, therefore, that poisonous substances are produced in the damagedPANCREATITIS. 541 pancreas, which cause the clinical phenomena of acute pancreatitis and lead to a fatal result. In disease of the pancreas associated with retention of its secretion, there is a marked tendency to the occurrence of haemorrhage into the gland substance or into the surrounding tissues, and this appears to be due to a necrotic effect of the secretion on the walls of the blood-vessels. In disease of the pancreas, and especially in acute pancreatitis, a condition is met with known as fat necrosis, in which the fat in certain parts of the body is split up into fatty acids and glycerine ; the glycerine being soluble, is absorbed, the fatty acids are deposited in a crystalline form within the fat cells and cause their necrosis. In time, the fatty acids unite with calcium to form lime salts. This change is met with Common bile duct Hepatic artery Gall-bladdei Duct of. Santorini Opening of common bile duct Duct Superior mesenteric vessels of Wirsung Fig. 146.—Dissection to show relations of Gall-Bladder and Pancreas to Duodenum. (After Spalteholtz.) chiefly in the fat round the pancreas, in the mesentery and omentum, and in the retro-peritoneal tissue, and is recognised by the occurrence of minute, opaque, white areas scattered through the fat. It appears to be due to the penetration of the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreatic juice into adipose tissue, when the passage of the secretion into the intestine is interfered with. When the common bile-duct is blocked at the ampulla of Vater, bile is forced back into the ducts of the pancreas and may play a part in the production of disease of that organ, especially if, as is usually the case under these conditions, the bile contains pyogenic bacteria. Pancreatitis.—The essential cause of the various forms of pancreatitis is bacterial infection, which usually reaches the glands by way of the duct, the organisms passing from theTHE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 542 duodenum or from the common bile-duct. Gall-stones and catarrh of the stomach and duodenum are common antecedents of pancreatitis. Less frequently the infection is derived from the blood—as in pyaemia; or by direct extension from neighbouring organs—as in ulcer of the stomach. In acute pancreatitis there is a sudden onset of acute illness, attended with pain in the epigastrium, nausea, and vomiting, which may lead to the condition being mistaken for intestinal obstruction or peritonitis from perforation. The upper part of the abdomen becomes distended, there is marked tenderness above the umbilicus, the temperature is raised, there may be delirium, and death usually supervenes in from two to five days. When acute pancreatitis is associated with serious haemorrhage into the pancreas itself or diffused in the surrounding tissues, the condition is known as haemorrhagic pancreatitis. The extravasated blood undergoes changes, the colour altering to a chocolate or slate-grey. The onset of the illness is very acute, the symptoms are referred to the upper part of the abdomen, and there may be the rapid formation of a large tumour-like swelling due to extravasation of blood. In a case observed by ourselves, the sudden onset of pain below the right costal margin, the collapse of the patient, and the board-like contraction of the muscles below the right costal margin led to a diagnosis of perforated duodenal ulcer. In the less acute forms the patient survives for a longer period, and suppuration occurs, the pus being diffused throughout the gland, or collected into one or more abscesses in the pancreas itself or in its immediate vicinity. The symptoms are similar to those observed in the acute form, but are less severe. The temperature is irregular, the patient loses flesh and strength, and presents the features of septic poisoning. There is usually diarrhoea, the stools being foetid, and they may contain pus and blood. If a large abscess forms, a swelling may appear and come to the surface above or below the stomach; the pus, however, may burrow into either loin, forming a peri-renal abscess, or pass upwards under the diaphragm and form a sub- phrenic abscess, or it may follow the psoas muscle into the iliac region. Sometimes an abscess bursts into the stomach or bowel, or into the peritoneal cavity. Recovery may take place after a tedious and prolonged illness, but death is the usual termina- tion in cases left to nature. Treatment.—An exploratory laparotomy must first be per- formed to establish the diagnosis, which can seldom be made certain otherwise. After the abdomen is opened, the recognition543 CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. of fat necrosis, evidenced by the minute, opaque, white areas scattered through the omentum and mesentery, goes far to establish the diagnosis. The most simple and direct access to the pancreas is obtained by making an opening in the gastro-colic omentum, pulling the stomach upwards and the transverse colon downwards, and incising the posterior parietal peritoneum. The gland thus exposed is then palpated so as to localise the area of disease, and, after packing off the peritoneal cavity very thoroughly, the pancreas is incised. Necrosed tissue is removed with the spoon or scoop, and the resulting cavity packed with gauze. If there is an accumulation of blood, as in the haemor- rhagic form, this is removed, and to prevent further extravasa- tion, the cavity must be firmly packed with gauze. If there is a collection of pus, this must be emptied, and provision made for drainage either through the abdominal w'ound or through a fresh incision behind in the right or left costo-vertebral angle. Chronic Pancreatitis.1—This is by far the commonest form of inflammation of the pancreas. The inflammation may affect the interlobular or the interacinous connective tissue of the organ, and in either case may terminate in cirrhosis. The con- dition may involve the whole gland, or only part of it, more often the head where it is embraced by the duodenum. The affected portion of the pancreas is swollen, and harder than normal, and the lobules have the feeling of being mapped out or differentiated. To the inexperienced, the irregularity and hardness met with in the head of the pancreas may suggest the presence of malignant disease. Obstruction of the pancreatic duct, with damming back and infection of the secretion, is by far the commonest cause of the condition, and is due in most cases to the lodgment of a gall- stone in the terminal portion of the common bile-duct. Catarrh of the stomach and duodenum, or the presence of duodenal ulcer, is the next most common antecedent. The formation of 'pancreatic calculi and the deposit of calcium salts on the walls of the ducts is commonly associated with catarrh of the ducts and with chronic inflammation of the pancreas; the calculi being composed of lime salts are opaque to the X-rays. The clinical features of chronic pancreatitis vary with the cause. If the condition follows upon gall-stone obstruction of the common duct, there will be a history of this; the patient is jaundiced and complains of loss of flesh, and of pains passing from the epigastrium round the left side to the renal and scapular 1 We desire here to acknowledge our indebtedness to the writings of Mr. Mayo Robson on this subject.544 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. regions, and there is tenderness in the epigastrium and some fulness above the umbilicus. If the condition results from duodenal catarrh or other cause than gall-stones, pain is absent or there is only slight aching in the epigastrium, the jaundice is not marked, and the gall-bladder is usually distended and palpable. In thin patients, it may be possible to detect a swell- ing in the position of the pancreas, especially with the aid of a general anaesthetic. The dyspeptic symptoms are probably due to the absence of bile and pancreatic juice from the intestine. There is loss of appetite, flatulence, eructations, heartburn, nausea, and distaste for certain foods; the motions are pale, bulky, offensive, and obviously greasy from excess of fat; the faeces are acid in reaction to litmus, while in simple jaundice they are usually alkaline. The jaundice varies from a slight icteric tinge to a deep mahogany hue, depending upon the completeness of obstruction of the common bile-duct. Marked wasting is usually a prominent feature, and, when associated with progressive anaemia, may suggest the presence of malignant disease. In the diagnosis special stress should be laid upon the pro- gressive wasting, the presence of jaundice, the dyspeptic disturb- ances, the “ pancreatic reaction ” in the urine, and the chemical examination of the faeces. In the differential diagnosis the most important conditions to consider are : cancer of the head of the pancreas, cancer of the common bile-duct, cancer of the liver, gall-stones in the common duct, and chronic catarrh of the bile-ducts. In cancer of the head of the pancreas, the onset is usually insidious and painless; there is gradual failure of health, and, when jaundice supervenes, it becomes absolute and unvarying; the gall-bladder is nearly always distended and may attain a large size. The faeces are usually acid in reaction and contain a large amount of undigested fat. Cancer of the common duct is rare, and is usually associated with gall-stones. If the disease involves the papilla, the symptoms are indistinguishable from those of cancer of the head of the pancreas. If the growth is situated above the opening of the pancreatic duct, it will not interfere with the functions of the pancreas; the loss of flesh will not be so rapid, and, although there may be an excess of fat in the fseces, this will chiefly consist of fatty acids. Cancer of the liver is distinguished by the irregular enlarge- ment and nodular feel of that organ, the rapid deterioration of health, the less intense jaundice, which is nearly always associated with ascites, and the absence of fever and paroxysmal pain.CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. 545 A diagnosis of gall-stones may be made by the sequence of a long history of spasms without jaundice, then a severe attack of pain followed by jaundice, and after a time recurrent pains and increase of jaundice associated with ague-like seizures. The absence of a distended gall-bladder is more common in gall- stones than in chronic pancreatitis. The paroxysmal attacks in chronic pancreatitis may be as severe as in gall-stone seizures, but there is usually less pain. In gall-stones the tenderness is over the gall-bladder, in pancreatitis it is in the middle line, where the swollen gland can sometimes be felt, especially if the patient is thin or under an anaesthetic. The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis from gall-stones is not of practical importance, as the two conditions are often associated, and the treatment is, at least up to a certain point, the same. The treatment is directed towards removing the cause, whether that be gall-stones, pancreatic calculi, duodenal catarrh, duodenal or gastric ulcer, alcoholism, or syphilis. In operating for chronic pancreatitis, the surgeon must be prepared to do a thorough operation so as to expose the whole of the common bile-duct as well as the head of the pancreas, so that he may be able to remove the cause, should it be a gall- stone, a pancreatic calculus, or any other removable condition. In the absence of any removable cause, it is advisable to secure efficient drainage of the infected bile and pancreatic ducts, either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst-enterostomy, preferably the latter. When the pancreatic disease is dependent upon catarrh associated with ulcer of the duodenum, it may be advisable at the same time to perform a gastro-enterostomj. Experience has shown that if the cause can be removed at an early stage, an absolute cure is possible, and, though complete restoration of the damaged gland may not always be promised, yet an arrest in the morbid process may be looked for, and the remaining portion of the pancreas will be able to carry on the metabolic functions of the gland, even if it does not carry on the digestive functions completely. Cysts of the Pancreas.—The term pancreatic cyst has been applied not only to a true cyst of the pancreas, but also to an accumulation of fluid in the lesser sac of the peritoneum (Jordan Lloyd). From the fact that a true pancreatic cyst may project into and distend the lesser sac, or may rupture into it, it may be difficult or impossible to differentiate clinically between these conditions. True pancreatic cysts originate in different ways, and are VOL. II—35THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 546 Fig. 147.—Pancreatic Cyst between Stomach and Colon, and covered in front by Gastro- colic Omentum. usually the result of some antecedent disease of the gland. The view formerly held that they are of the nature of retention cysts due to blocking of the main duct has little to support it, although it cannot altogether be excluded. Cyst formation in the pancreas may follow upon inflammatory changes, especially such as involve the smaller ducts, upon necrosis of the glandular tissue, hcemorrhage into its substance, or changes brought about by in- jury. Shreds of nec- rosed pancreatic tissue are sometimes found within the cyst, and support the view that cyst formation may result from pancreatitis. A small number are of the nature of new growths, chiefly cyst-adenomata. The true cysts may be uni- or multilocular, and are usually located in the head or in the tail of the gland. They may attain the size of a child’s head, and the contents are usually turbid, often mixed with blood, and occa- sionally they exhibit certain of the digestive properties of pancreatic juice. False cysts or accu- mulations in the lesser sac of the peritoneum usually follow upon a blow or crush of the upper part of the ab- domen. They may de- velop within a few days of the injury, or not until after the lapse of some months. Fig. 148.—Pancreatic Cyst between Liver and Stomach, and covered in front by Gastro- hepatic Omentum. They547 CYSTS OF THE PANCREAS. sometimes attain a large size, holding several pints of a brown or greenish, turbid, watery fluid, of alkaline reaction, containing albumin and globulin and pigments derived from the blood. In exceptional cases the cyst is really a localised tuberculous peritonitis. Clinical Features.—A pancreatic cyst forms a rounded or oval, fluctuating, and slightly movable abdominal tumour, situated at or above the level of the umbilicus, chiefly to the left of the middle line. The signs on percussion vary with its relation to adjacent organs, but there is usually a central area of dulness surrounded by a tympanitic zone. The cyst may extend forwards, and come into relation with the abdominal wall in one or other of three situations (Kbrte) : (1) It most commonly projects directly forward, filling the lesser sac of the peritoneum, displacing the stomach upwards against the liver, and the transverse colon downwards (Fig. 147). (2) The cyst may pro- ject forward between the stomach and liver, pushing in front of it the lesser or gastro-hep- atic omentum (Fig. 148). (3) The cyst may insinuate itself between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, so that the colon comes to lie directly in front of the cyst (Fig. 149), or above or below it. If the stomach be distended with gas, its relations to the cyst are readily demonstrated. The symptoms of which the patient complains are mainly due to pressure. Thus, for example, he may suffer from in- digestion and vomiting, from pressure on the stomach; breath- lessness, from pressure on the diaphragm ; disturbance of the bowels, from pressure on the colon. A cyst in the head of the pancreas may press on the common bile-duct and cause jaundice. In true cysts of the pancreas, loss of flesh is usually a prominent symptom. The diagnosis is to be made from a mesenteric or ovarian cyst and from tumours of the kidney. Fig. 149.—Pancreatic Cyst below the Stomach and crossed by Transverse Colon.THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 548 Puncture of the cyst for diagnostic purposes should never be practised, as it involves the risk of extravasation or of puncturing the stomach or colon. If the diagnosis is doubtful, an explora- tory operation should be performed. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the cyst entire when this is possible, or in opening and draining it. After the abdomen has been opened, the relations of the cyst to the stomach and colon are first investigated. When the cyst projects between the stomach and the colon—the commonest situation—its wall is exposed by dividing the gastro-colic omentum, care being taken not to interfere with the blood- supply of the colon. Before the cyst is opened its wall should be sutured to the parietal peritoneum, but if it is so thin as to make this impossible, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze. The cyst is drained by means of a rubber tube, for which gauze may be substituted when the discharge has diminished in quantity. The surrounding skin should be smeared with ointment in case the fluid draining away from the cyst should possess digestive properties. The filling up of the cavity and the closing of the sinus may take from four to six weeks, or may be indefinitely delayed. Cysts arising from the tail of the pancreas usually project in the left lumbar region, and may be opened and drained from the loin, behind the peritoneum, but this is not as a rule practicable until the cyst has been explored fyom the abdomen. Malignant Tumours of the Pancreas.—Cancer of the pancreas produces as a rule no symptoms, unless it involves the head of the gland, when the symptoms that arise are due to pressure upon adjacent organs. It is chiefly of interest from the point of view of diagnosis, as its removal by operation is very rarely practicable. In certain cases it may be possible to relieve the jaundice and associated symptoms by cholecystotomy or preferably by cholecyst-enterostomy. Stones in the ducts of the pancreas are met with chiefly in association with inflammation and suppuration in the gland. They may give rise to symptoms resembling biliary colic, but the pain and tenderness are located in the middle line, and the reflected pain is in the mid-scapular region. The occurrence of ague-like seizures is due to the associated inflammatory con- ditions. When the outlet of the main duct is blocked by a large stone, the common bile-duct may be pressed upon and jaundice result. If pancreatic calculi can be diagnosed, they should be removed by operation. Injuries.—The pancreas may be bruised or ruptured againstANATOMY OF THE SPLEEN. 549 the vertebral column by violence applied to the abdominal wall, as for example when the body is crushed between buffers. It is impossible to diagnose such lesions at the time of their occurrence. In some cases death takes place from haemorrhage, in others from fat necrosis. In less severe forms the lesser sac of the peritoneum becomes filled with blood-stained greenish fluid, constituting the so-called traumatic pancreatic cyst. Garre records the case of a young man whose abdomen was caught between buffers and the pancreas nearly torn across ; the two portions were brought together with silk sutures and the patient recovered. Wounds implicating the pancreas are usually rapidly fatal from haemorrhage or from accompanying injuries to adjacent viscera. The Spleen. Surgical Anatomy.—The concave, inner surface of the spleen lies against the fundus of the stomach and the upper pole of the left kidney. The convex, outer surface is applied against the diaphragm. The long axis of the organ corresponds to that of the tenth rib. The spleen is almost completely invested by peritoneum. From the hilus the peri- toneum is reflected on to the fundus of the stomach as the gastro-spilenic omentum ; and a similar fold—the lieno-renal ligament—passes back- ward to the anterior surface of the left kidney. The upper and posterior part of the spleen is overlapped by the left lung, from which it is separated by the peritoneum, the diaphragm, and the pleura. The splenic vessels pursue a tortuous course behind the stomach, and the splenic artery near its termination breaks up into a series of from five to seven branches, which enter the organ separately, so that they require to be ligatured individually in excising the spleen. The functions of the spleen are imperfectly known, but experience has shown that, while removal of the organ may be followed by temporary anaemia and leucocytosis and enlargement of the lymphatic glands, the general health is not permanently impaired. Herczel has pointed out that the pyrexia which may be observed after removal of the spleen is due to the leakage of pancreatic fluid due to injury of the tail of the pancreas in ligaturing the splenic vessels ; he therefore recommends that in removing the spleen the use of clamps should be dispensed with, and that the splenic blood-vessels should be secured one by one close to the hilus. Injuries.—Rupture of the spleen may result from a blow or crush implicating the left hypochondriac region. It may be complicated by fracture of the overlying ribs, or by injury to one or other of the adjacent viscera. Sometimes rupture follows upon a sudden movement or strain, or a slight blow such as that with the palm of the hand, but in these cases the spleen is unduly soft or is the seat of changes due to malaria.550 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. The rupture varies in extent and depth, and is most frequently situated in the region of the hilus, thus implicating the larger blood-vessels. There is nothing characteristic in the clinical features. In addition to shock and abdominal pain and tenderness, the chief symptoms are those which result from haemorrhage into the peri- toneal cavity. When the larger vessels are torn, the haemorrhage may be so abundant as to prove rapidly fatal. If not immediately fatal, the blood which is poured into the peritoneal cavity gives rise to dulness in the flanks, more especially on the left side, and as the blood accumulates the extent of the dulness may be observed to increase. In a small number of cases the symptoms are delayed for twenty-four hours or more, due to temporary arrest of the bleeding by clotting. The diagnosis is completed on opening the abdomen, and this is done by a vertical incision through the left rectus. The pedicle should be clamped in the first instance, as this at once controls the hsemorrhage. When the rupture is extensive, the most effective and ex- peditious procedure is to remove the organ [splenectomy). When the laceration does not extend deeply, it may be possible to bring together the edges by deep sutures. Treatment must also be directed to any associated injuries, such as those of the ribs or adjacent viscera, and to the bloodless state. Stabs and gunshot wounds are to be diagnosed and treated on general principles. In extensive open wounds the organ may be protruded externally, in which case it should be replaced or removed according to the amount of damage it has sustained. Abscess of the Spleen.—Splenic abscess is most frequently met with in relation to endocarditis, pyaemia, or typhoid, and is usually the result of septic embolism. An abscess may form in the connective tissue around the spleen, as a result of localised suppurative peritonitis; for example, that associated with a perforated gastric ulcer. The abscess may either point and burst externally, or it may rupture into the pleural or peritoneal cavity, into the retro-peritoneal tissue, or into one of the adjacent organs. It may give rise to phlebitis in the portal vein, and to secondary abscesses in the liver. The clinical features are rarely characteristic. The spleen is found to be enlarged and tender, and the patient has rigors, sweats, and loses flesh rapidly. Peritoneal friction may be heard over the swelling, and there may be signs of pleurisy at the base of the left lung. If the condition is diagnosed, the area of suppuration may beWANDERING SPLEEN. 551 opened and drained either by the abdominal or by the trans- pleural route. In cysts of the spleen, whether hydatid or otherwise, in benign tumours, in sarcoma, and in tuberculosis, the organ should be removed. Enlargements of the Spleen. — The enlargement that results from malaria may necessitate removal of the organ if medical treatment has been found of no avail. In splenic anaemia, the organ should also be removed as early as possible, while the patient is able to stand the operation and before serious complications have arisen. Operative interference is contra-indicated in the splenic enlargement that accompanies leucocythcemia. In nearly all the cases in which removal of the organ has been attempted the patient has died of haemorrhage. Wandering or Floating Spleen.—This term is applied to a condition in which the pedicle of the spleen is abnormally long, and the organ therefore unduly movable. If it becomes fixed in its abnormal position by adhesions, it is spoken of as a dislocated spleen. It is almost exclusively met with in spare women who have borne children. In well-marked cases a floating spleen is capable of such wide excursions, that it may be found in any part of the abdomen or pelvis, hence it readily gives rise to errors in diagnosis. Attention should be directed to the absence of the normal splenic dulness, and to the shape of the prolapsed organ, which is usually freely movable and appears to float on the intestines. When it is displaced, it may drag or press on adjacent viscera, and give rise to symptoms referable to these. By pulling on the stomach, for example, it may kink the duodenum, by becoming adherent to the bowel it may interfere with peristalsis and cause obstruction, or by pressing upon the uterus it may displace that organ. The pedicle of a wandering spleen may become twisted, and give rise to symptoms which resemble those of a twisted ovarian cyst. Treatment.—-The condition may be palliated by rest in bed, and by the use of a belt when the patient is going about. If the organ is healthy and capable of being replaced in its normal position, it may be fixed there by the operation of splenopexy. The method of Rydygier consists in making a new pocket for the organ by incising the parietal peritoneum in the line of the tenth rib, separating the peritoneum from the parietes, and implanting the spleen in the bed thus made for it. If the organ is enlarged or if the pedicle is twisted, the spleen should be removed.552 CHAPTER XXX. ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC CONDITIONS PECULIAR TO WOMEN.1 Ovarian tumours—Pyosalpinx—Extra-uterine pregnancy—Uterine fibroids. Ovarian Tumours.—Of the many varieties of tumour met with in relation to the ovary and parovarium, it is only necessary here to refer to the cystic forms, of which the most important are multilocular cyst-adenomata, dermoid and parovarian cysts, and papillary tumours. Solid tumours, such as fibromata, myo- mata, sarcomata, and carcinomata, are comparatively rare; they are frequently associated with free peritoneal fluid, and this is as common with the benign as with the malignant varieties. The multilocular cyst-adenoma may be taken as the classi- cal form of ovarian cyst. It is due to a proliferation of the glandular elements of the ovary; the glands become dis- tended with secretion and form numerous cysts of different sizes. The condition is usually unilateral, but it may affect both ovaries. In its most common form the tumour is made up of one large cyst, with numerous smaller cysts in relation to it. On section the mass of small cysts presents a honeycomb appear- ance, delicate fibrous partitions intervening between the different cavities. These partitions tend to give way, so that the cysts come to communicate with one another, and thus the small cysts become absorbed in the larger one. The cysts contain a tinted fluid, varying in consistence, and composed chiefly of the secretion of the cylindrical epithelium lining the cavities. As a result of haemorrhage into the cyst the fluid is sometimes reddish-brown or porter-coloured. The tumour, which varies in size from an orange to a mass displacing the viscera and filling the abdomen, is rounded or oval in outline, with irregular projections on its surface due to 1 This chapter has been revised by Dr. F. W. N. Haultain.553 OVARIAN TUMOURS. the prominence of individual cysts. The wall is composed of condensed fibrous tissue, and is for the most part smooth and glistening, and of a bluish colour. It sometimes presents calcified areas, and sometimes dark brown patches which indicate the position of previous haemorrhages. Adhesions to the omentum, the adjacent viscera, and the anterior abdominal wall frequently follow attacks of localised peritonitis. When arising from the free portion of the ovary, the pedicle of the cyst is formed by the ovarian ligament, the Fallopian tube, and the broad ligament, and it contains the parovarium. As a result of traction it may be stretched till it is several inches in length. When arising from the intra-ligamentary portion of the ovary, the cyst tends to burrow between the layers of the broad ligament downwards into the true pelvis, and is said to be sessile. Clinical Features.—The amount of discomfort caused by these tumours varies widely, and bears no constant ratio to the size of the growth. In most cases there are at first no symptoms. Attacks of severe pain lasting for a few days usually indicate localised peritonitis. The rate of growth varies, but as a rule is comparatively rapid, and sooner or later prominence of the abdomen and pressure symptoms develop. The tumour may, for example, press on or displace the rectum or bladder and interfere with their functions. Sometimes one or both ureters are pressed upon, and dilatation of the ureters or hydronephrosis results. Indigestion, vomiting, and flatulent distension may result from pressure on the stomach and bowTels. In the majority of cases menstruation is not influenced in any way. When the tumour reaches great dimensions it exerts pressure on the diaphragm, producing respiratory and circulatory disturbances. CEdema of the legs, abdomen, and vulva is sometimes present, and the super- ficial abdominal veins may be greatly distended. The general health suffers and the patient emaciates. Dermoid cysts are due to inclusion of a portion of the ectoderm in the development of the ovary. During the period of maximum functional activity of the gland, this ectodermic remnant begins to grow erratically, and forms a cyst which con- tains such tissues as skin, with its accessories, hair, sebaceous and sweat glands, teeth, rudimentary mammary glands, and a thick pultaceous material composed of the inspissated secre- tion of the sebaceous glands and the debris of the epithelium with which the cyst is lined. In many respects these cysts resemble cyst-adenomata; they occur frequently at an earlier age, grow more slowly, and show a greater tendency to attacks of localised peritonitis.UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 554 Parovarian cysts originate in the tubular remnants of the embryonic Wolffian body, in the layers of the mesosalpinx between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. They grow rapidly and form smooth, thin-walled, unilocular cysts, over which the Fallopian tube is stretched out in a characteristic way. The ovary is adherent to the under or posterior aspect of the cyst. The cavfty is lined with cylindrical epithelium, which is often ciliated, and it contains a clear, limpid fluid. Papillary tumours of the ovary form a group intermediate between the cystic and the solid growths. They are due to a proliferation of the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary, or in the Graafian follicles, and are stated by some observers to arise from the parovarian tubules which penetrate the ovary. The tumour may be made up of solid masses of warty or cauliflower-like excrescences springing from the surface of the ovary, and spreading over the adjacent peritoneal surfaces till they fill up and block the pelvis; or it may take the form of a large unilocular cyst with papillary growths projecting from its surface as well as into its interior. The rupture of such a cyst is followed by dissemination of the disease over the peritoneum. These growths show a marked tendency to spread by continuity, and are thus locally malignant, but metastasis to distant parts is rare. They are most common in women nearing or past the menopause, and are frequently bilateral; they usually grow slowly, and are often associated with ascites. Complications. — Ovarian tumours are liable to various accidents which modify their clinical course. Inflammation and suppuration, for example, may occur in the cyst, infection taking place from the Fallopian tube, the vermiform appendix, or the intestine. The swelling becomes painful and tender, general symptoms of septic absorption supervene, and if pus forms, it may escape either into the general peritoneal cavity or into an adjacent viscus. Recovery may be followed by the formation of widespread adhesions. Rotation or twisting of the pjedicle is also liable to occur, interfering with the venous return from the tumour, and causing haemorrhage into the cyst, or even gangrene. This accident is attended with sudden onset of acute pain, pallor, and faintness ; the tumour rapidly increases in size and becomes tense and tender. The condition closely simulates the onset of acute intes- tinal obstruction, symptoms of peritonitis ensue, and if suppura- tion or gangrene occurs, the condition is liable to prove fatal unless promptly treated by operation. Rupture of the cyst may result from gradual thinning of theOVARIAN TUMOURS. 555 walls, or from injury or violent contraction of the abdominal walls. In rare cases the rupture implicates a large blood- vessel, leading to serious haemorrhage. More frequently there is merely an escape of fluid into the peritoneal cavity, the fluid being excreted by the kidneys, and the patient for a few days passing large quantities of urine. The cyst collapses and forms adhesions with adjacent structures. In some cases rupture of the cyst is followed by generalised peritonitis. Severe haemor- rhage may occur into the cyst cavity and cause rapid distension associated with the typical clinical features of bleeding, and with great abdominal pain. Diagnosis.—The presence of a tumour springing from the pelvis can usually be recognised by palpation and percussion of the abdomen, combined with vaginal and rectal examination. In fat women, however, errors are liable to occur, flatulent dis- tension, masses of subcutaneous fat, and so-called “ phantom tumours ” being mistaken for new growths. On the other hand, in such patients the existence of a small abdominal or pelvic tumour is liable to be overlooked. In doubtful cases the patient should be examined under an anaesthetic. In the differential diagnosis of ovarian from other forms of abdominal tumour, it is to be borne in mind that an ovarian tumour is dull on percussion over its convexity, that the dul- ness extends into the pelvis and is surrounded by a zone of resonance above and at the sides. On rectal examination, the pedicle formed by the broad ligament can usually be recognised ; and on vaginal examination the tumour is found to have replaced the ovary on the side from which it springs. An ovarian tumour can usually be distinguished from an over- distended bladder by the use of the catheter; from retro- peritoneal tumours by the fact that the rectum lies in front of these growths; from a large cystic kidney by noting the tympanitic area due to the presence of the colon in front of the kidney; and from ascites by the fact that the intestines are floated up on the fluid, and the highest part of the swelling is therefore tympanitic, while the flanks are dull, and the dull area changes with the position of the patient. The ascites which accompanies papillary tumours, however, may readily be mistaken for the ascites resulting from tuberculous disease of the peri- toneum. Encysted areas of tuberculous peritonitis are very liable to be mistaken for ovarian cysts. Among the other conditions to be borne in mind may be mentioned mesenteric and pancreatic cysts, tumours of the omentum, mesentery, or spleen. The pregnant uterus has also been mistaken for an ovarian tumour.556 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Small ovarian tumours may simulate uterine or tubal growths, or faecal masses in the rectum. The chief points of difference between the various forms of ovarian cyst have already been mentioned. Treatment—Ovariotomy.—On account of the difficulty of distinguishing clinically between benign and malignant growths, it is advisable to remove all ovarian tumours as soon as they are diagnosed, provided the general condition of the patient warrants the operation. Early extirpation is further indicated in view of the risks attending suppuration, torsion of the pedicle, or rupture with dissemination of the disease in the case of papillary and malignant growths. Delay also involves the risk of adhesions forming as a result of peritonitis, and so adding to the difficulties of the operation. Neither childhood nor advanced age contra-indicates operation. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, with the pelvis moderately raised, and a mesial incision is made between the umbilicus and the pubes, exposing the tumour. Care must be taken not to wound the bladder. The cyst is brought to the surface and evacuated by an incision into it, or with the aid of a suitable trocar and cannula, care being taken that none of the contents enter the peritoneal cavity. As the cyst collapses it is drawn out of the wound until the pedicle lies between the edges of the incision. Any adhesions that may be present must be carefully separated, particularly those between the cyst and the intestine. After the cyst has been isolated, the pedicle is secured by transfixing it with a stout silk ligature, the ovarian and the terminal branches of the uterine vessels, which are usually grouped at its borders, being subsequently enclosed in separate ligatures. All blood and fluid having been removed from the pelvis, the abdomen is closed without drainage. The results of the operation are usually most satisfactory, but in papillary tumours, if the disease has extended to the surrounding peritoneum, the condition is very liable to recur, and finally cause death. Pyosalpinx.—The term pyosalpinx is applied to an accumu- lation of pus in a Fallopian tube. The affection begins as an inflammation of the lining membrane of the tube—salpingitis— which is almost invariably the result of a direct spread of some infective process from the lower parts of the genital tract. In many cases the infective agent is the gonococcus, the tubal inflammation being secondary to an ordinary vaginal gonorrhoea. Frequently streptococci and staphylococci arePYOSALPINX 557 present, having spread to the tube from a septic focus in the uterus following abortion, parturition, or some operation on the uterus. When the abscess is in close proximity to the rectum, the bacillus coli may be present. In abscesses of long standing, the organisms having died out, the pus is found to be sterile. In a proportion of cases as yet uncertain, the condition is tuberculous. As a result of the inflammatory process in the tube, the abdominal ostium becomes occluded, either by peritoneal adhesions gluing together the fimbriae, or by swelling of the mucous membrane blocking the lumen. The uterine opening ot the tube also becomes occluded, and the tube is thus converted into a closed cavity. As the tube distends with inflammatory Fig. 150.—Section of Pyosalpinx. (Dr. Haultain’s case.) products, it separates the two layers of the broad ligament and burrows between them, and at the same time it becomes elon- gated and tortuous, and its walls are thinned out (Fig. 150). The inflammatory process spreads to the peritoneal coat, and adhe- sions form binding the distended tube to the ovary, the uterus, the vaginal vault, the rectum, and sometimes to the intestine. The condition may be unilateral, but as a rule both tubes are affected, although to an unequal extent. The clinical features vary widely according to the stage of the disease and the nature of the infection. An acute stage is sometimes met with, particularly in cases due to puerperal infec- tion, and in those of gonorrhoeal origin. The onset is marked by a chill or rigor, the temperature rises to 102°-103° F., and the pulse is small, rapid, and compressible. The patient lies558 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. on her back with the legs drawn up, the abdominal muscles are rigid, and there is marked tenderness over the loiver part of the abdomen—symptoms indicative of peritonitis. These acute symptoms may last for a week or ten days and then gradually subside, giving place to those that characterise the more chronic type of the disease. In the majority of cases, and particularly in those of gonor- rhoeal and tuberculous origin, the disease runs a chronic course from the outset. The patient has recurrent attacks of pain in the region of the ovaries, pain in the back, and a bearing-down sensation in the pelvis. These are associated with fever and the signs of localised pelvic peritonitis. There is pain on micturition and defecation, and the bowels are markedly consti- pated. Menstruation is profuse, and there may be a persistent vaginal discharge. These attacks last for a week or ten days, and recur at irregular intervals. In the intervals between the attacks the patient is comparatively well, although a dull pain in the side is seldom absent; before the menstrual periods she suffers greatly (premenstrual dysmenorrhoea); and she gradually becomes a confirmed invalid. Her attitude and gait are char- acteristic ; she inclines the body forward, moves very cautiously, and to avoid jarring the pelvic viscera in making any sudden movement she presses firmly on the abdomen with her hands. Dyspareunia is usually present. On vaginal examination the uterus is found to be less movable than normal, and to the sides of the uterus irregular, elongated swellings, which are extremely tender to the touch, can be palpated. Even when the abscess is of considerable size fluctua- tion cannot always be detected through the vagina, indeed “a stony hardness of the vaginal vault is one of the most char- acteristic signs of the presence of pus ” (Kelly). In some cases the swelling is best felt from the rectum. In course of time the swelling may become palpable in the abdomen or in the flank, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, a tumour, or the matting of parts around a diseased vermiform appendix. If left to nature the abscess may burst into the vagina or rectum, and if the opening is large and the drainage free, a speedy cure may thus take place. If, however, the opening is small the symptoms are only temporarily relieved, as all the pus does not escape, and the cavity soon fills again. In other cases the abscess bursts into the bladder, or on to the surface through the abdominal wall, leaving sinuses which show no tendency to heal, and from which pus continues to escape. If the pus bursts intoPYOSALPINX. 559 the peritoneal cavity, the symptoms are not unlike those that follow the rupture of an appendicular abscess into the peritoneum. Occasionally the pus becomes encysted and may eventually disappear. Diagnosis.—Acute salpingitis or pyosalpinx, in which the symptoms and signs are confined to the right side, is very liable to be confused with acute appendicitis, especially the pelvic form of this disease. In the tubal lesion the general symptoms are less severe; they tend to come and go over a period of several days, the pulse is less affected than the temperature would lead one to expect, the abdominal wall is less rigid, and the pain and tenderness are more marked in the middle line than is observed in appendicitis ; a rectal or vaginal examination may reveal the bilateral character of the tubal lesion. If a clear history of gonorrhoea or of septic endometritis is forthcoming, the diagnosis is seldom difficult. The other condi tions from which pyosalpinx is to be differentiated are pelvic cellulitis, tumours and cysts of the broad ligament, ovarian cysts, and uterine fibroids. Retroflexion of the uterus, a kidney dis- placed into the pelvis, a tumour of the sacrum or innominate bone, cancer of the cajcum, and faecal accumulation in the rectum, have all been mistaken for pyosalpinx. Treatment.—In the vast majority of cases operative interfer- ence is indicated, but this should not be undertaken during the acute stage or during an exacerbation. To relieve the patient’s suffering, rest in bed, purgation, the application of ice-bags over the abdomen, and, if necessary, the administration of opium, are called for. Vaginal incision and drainage is recommended by Kelly for selected cases in which there is a single, well-defined abscess, and in which fluctuation can be detected through the vault of the vagina. The abscess is evacuated, the cavity irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze. This operation has the advantage of conserving the ovaries and tubes, but is attended with the risk of injuring the rectum, the ureter, or the uterine artery, and of opening into the general peritoneal cavity. In most cases it is necessary to remove the affected tubes and ovaries through a mesial abdominal incision—salpingo-oophorec- tomy. The patient is placed in the exaggerated Trendelenburg position, the abdomen opened, all adhesions, and particularly adhesions to the intestine, are carefully separated, till the pyo- salpinx is clearly defined; the intestines are then packed off, the uterine and ovarian arteries are secured, the tube clamped and removed. Care is taken to avoid infecting the cavity of the560 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. pelvis with pus from the tube, and, if this should occur, a drain must be introduced through the vagina, after which the abdominal wound is closed. Extra-uterine or Ectopic Gestation.—When an impreg- nated ovum becomes implanted elsewhere than in the cavity of the uterus, the condition is spoken of as an extra-uterine or ectopic gestation. It is only necessary here to refer to that variety in which the site of implantation is the Fallopian tube— tubal gestation—as the abdominal and ovarian forms are ex- tremely rare. The middle or ampullary portion of the tube is the most common situation in which the ovum becomes arrested. The ovum becomes embedded in the mucous membrane, and at first the walls of the tube are swollen, vascular, and turgid, but after the sixth week they gradually become thinned out until the affected portion of the tube is represented by a delicate, transparent sac. The foetal membranes develop at the site of implantation in very much the same way as in an ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy. The uterus increases in size, and a thick, soft, decidual membrane develops in its interior. The ovum is liable to various accidents during the process of its development. If situated towards the fimbriated end of the tube, it may easily be extruded into the peritoneal cavity—tubal abortion—and this may be accompanied by severe and even fatal luemorrhage. More-frequently the ovum dies in the tube and persists as a tubal mole, which consists of a small amniotic cavity in which the foetus lies surrounded by blood-clot enclosed within the chorion. The formation of a tubal mole is associated with repeated luemorrhages into the peritoneal cavity through the abdominal ostium, which leads to the formation of an intra- peritoneal haematocele. At the same time blood escapes from the separated ovum through the uterus and gives rise to irregular vaginal haemorrhage. Tubal moles are the most frequent termination of ectopic pregnancy. In other instances rupture of the tubal sac occurs generally before the fourteenth week; this may take place directly into the peritoneal cavity and lead to rapidly fatal haemorrhage, or between the layers of the broad ligament, in which case the haemorrhage is less copious. The ovum usually perishes when rupture occurs, and ulti- mately is absorbed and gives rise to no trouble. It may continue to grow to full time, when spurious labour occurs, with subsequent death of the foetus, after which its tissues may become impreg- nated with lime salts (lithopcedion), or be converted into adipocere (lipopcedion). The introduction of septic infection leads to the formation of a pelvic abscess, which may burst externally, orEXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. 561 into any of the adjacent viscera—bladder, rectum, uterus, or vagina, the discharge containing fragments of foetal bones. Clinical Features.—Ectopic gestation may occur at any time during the child-bearing period, and it is usually the case that several years have elapsed since the last normal pregnancy. There is often a history of previous tubal disease, although this is usually quiescent, and the patient is apparently in good health at the time the abnormal impregnation occurs. In some cases the ordinary general symptoms of pregnancy are present, but in others the patient is not aware that she is pregnant. It often happens that the patient misses one or two periods, and then suffers from irregular, intermittent haemorrhages, the blood being thick, dark in colour, and varying in amount. The uterine decidual membrane may be thrown off during the early weeks, either in the form of a complete cast of the interior of the uterus or in shreds mixed with the blood. This, when present, is a valuable diagnostic sign. The external genitalia present the ordinary signs of pregnancy; the uterus is enlarged to about the size of a two months’ pregnancy, soft and globular, and appears to be displaced slightly to one side by a tense, elastic, and fluctuating swelling in which pulsating vessels may be felt. This swelling, which is the gestation sac, is ovoid, and is situated to one side of the uterus, and as it increases in size becomes fixed and very tender on palpation, and the seat of a dull, aching pain. If the pregnancy continues to develop, the abdomen increases in size, the foetus can be distinctly, felt through the parietes, and foetal heart-sounds may be heard. Before the occurrence of rupture or intra-peritoneal bleeding through the ostium, the differential diagnosis is often extremely difficult, and in considering it the following conditions are to be borne in mind :—Pregnancy in the rudimentary horn of a bicornate uterus, retroflexion of a gravid uterus, ovarian, fibroid, and other pelvic tumours complicating ordinary intra- uterine pregnancy. An ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy has been mistaken for an ectopic gestation, but can usually be diagnosed by the varying consistence of the tumour due to the periodic uterine contractions. It must be remembered that the two conditions may coexist. The diagnosis is often aided by the administration of a general anaesthetic, but in difficult cases may only be cleared up by an exploratory operation. Rupture of the Sac.—Primary rupture may take place at any period, and is seldom delayed beyond the fourteenth week. It may be determined by some slight injury, by jumping from a chair, or by straining, for example in vomiting, or it may occur YOL. II—36UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 562 while the patient is at rest in bed. The severity of the symptoms varies according as the rupture is intra- or extra-peritoneal. In intra-peritoneal rupture the patient is suddenly seized with intense abdominal pain, and a feeling as if “something had given way.” She becomes collapsed and extremely pale, with low temperature, a small, rapid, feeble, and thready pulse, sighing respiration, and other signs of the bloodless state. There is usually some bleeding from the vagina, but this may be absent. On vaginal examination the pouch of Douglas is found dis- tended with fluid, and on withdrawal the examining fingers are stained with blood. The abdomen may become distended with blood. Vomiting and diarrhoea are not uncommon. The condition may prove fatal in a few hours, or the haemorrhage may cease and the patient slowly rally. Intra-peritoneal bleed- ing from the abdominal ostium is associated with the same symptoms but less severe, as the ooze is slower and usually less in amount. The effused blood gives rise to peritoneal adhesions by which it is confined to definite limits, and thus gives rise to characteristic physical signs — namely, a large ' retro -uterine swelling which displaces the uterus forwards and upwards behind the symphysis pubis. In extra-peritoneal rupture also, the onset is sudden and attended with severe pain, but the patient is less collapsed and soon rallies, and the evidence of profuse haemorrhage is not so prominent. Rupture of an ectopic gestation is to be diagnosed from perforation of a gastric or duodenal ulcer, perforation of the intestine or of the vermiform appendix, acute intestinal obstruc- tion, rupture of an ovarian cyst or torsion of its pedicle, rupture of a pyosalpinx, and renal or biliary colic. Reliance is placed chiefly on the history of amenorrhcea, the occurrence of bleeding from the vagina, microscopic examination of the decidual shreds, and the extreme pallor and other signs of internal haemorrhage. Treatment.—If the condition is diagnosed before rupture takes place, the abdomen should be opened and the affected tube removed. The majority of cases only come under observation when rupture has occurred and the patient’s life is in danger from haemorrhage. In such cases laparotomy should be performed at once, the clots cleared out, the ovarian and uterine arteries secured with forceps, and the tube removed entire. The peri- toneal cavity is then cleared of clots and the abdomen closed without drainage. The bloodless state is counteracted by in- fusion of saline fluid into the veins or peritoneal cavity, and by large saline enemata. If the patient is not seen until some time563 UTERINE FIBROIDS. after rupture has occurred, and if there is reason to believe that the rupture has taken place extra-peritoneally, and that the foetus is dead, operative interference may be delayed temporarily, but there seems little advantage in waiting for absorption to take place. If the foetus is alive, and the gestation sac increasing in size, it is safer to operate and remove the tube. The chief difficulty in 'the operation lies in controlling the bleeding from the placenta. Operation is also indicated for the removal of a disintegrating or decomposing foetus to avoid the risks of septic infection and of abscesses and fistulm. The practice of allow- ing the gestation to go on to term in the hope of saving the life of the foetus is attended with too grave risk- to the mother to be justifiable, particularly as the foetus is usually imperfectly developed and is seldom viable. Uterine Fibroids.—This clinical term is applied to myo- mata and fibro-myomata of the uterus—tumours which are composed of irregularly interlacing bundles of muscular and fibrous connective tissue. They usually spring from the body of the uterus, less frequently (5 per cent.) from the cervix, as well-defined globular, or irregularly nodular growths, which are more or less completely encapsulated. They vary in size from a hazel-nut to a mass which occupies the greater part of the abdominal cavity. There may only be one tumour, but as a rule there are several. The tumour may develop under the uterine mucosa—the sub- mucous variety—projecting towards the cavity of the uterus, and showing a marked tendency to become pedunculated. The uterine cavity is enlarged, and the pedicle may become so attenuated that the fibroid is separated and cast off through the vagina. The interstitial or intra-mural variety forms in the muscular wall of the uterus, and is surrounded by normal muscular fibres. These tumours, having a more copious blood- supply, grow more rapidly than the other forms, and in their growth they tend to project towards the abdominal cavity rather than towards the uterus. The subserous or subperitoneal varieties grow from the outer surface of the uterus under the peritoneal covering of the organ, and extend towards the abdominal cavity. They tend to become pedunculated, and may grow to a large size. All varieties are liable to undergo degenerative changes, such as calcification or myxomatous degeneration, and to become the seat of cyst formation. Clinical Features.—In many cases these tumours attain a considerable size without giving rise to any symptoms that lead the patient to seek advice. While fibro-myomata are564 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. probably present in early life, they seldom cause discomfort till some years after menstruation has been established, and in the majority of cases the symptoms only become prominent when the patient is between thirty-five and forty-five years of age. The earliest symptom is excessive flow during the period. As the tumour increases the menstrual periods become prolonged, lasting for a week or ten days, and they recur every three or even every two weeks. The patient, therefore, loses a great quantity of blood and becomes markedly anaemic. She loses strength, and suffers from dyspnoea and palpitation. Pain is not a prominent symptom, and in many cases is entirely absent; it may, how- ever, be present during menstruation. It is most marked when there are numerous small nodules in the substance of the uterine wall, in which case the patient may complain of grinding, bear- ing-down sensations, like severe and prolonged labour pains. Women who suffer from fibroids are usually sterile, or are subject to repeated early miscarriages. Pressure symptoms seldom ensue until the tumour blocks the pelvis. Then there is frequency and pain on micturition from the bladder being pushed up behind the pubes towards the abdominal cavity. The ureters may be pressed upon and become dilated, and hydronephrosis ensues. Pressure on the rectum seldom results in obstruction of the bowels, but may cause difficulty in defecation and tenesmus, and sometimes leads to the development of haemorrhoids. Pain may result from pressure on the pelvic nerves. Fibroid tumours usually grow slowly, in some cases taking- ten, fifteen, or even twenty years to reach the size of a uterus at term. They usually cease to grow after the menopause, and either remain quiescent or undergo atrophy; at this time, how- ever, they frequently undergo degenerative changes which cause rapid increase in size. They may be associated with disease in the ovaries and tubes, and occasionally with uterine cancer, and they may complicate pregnancy and parturition. The diagnosis is made by a consideration of the history, and by local examination. When the tumour extends into the abdo- minal cavity the abdomen has an irregular, nodulated appearance, and on palpation the growth feels densely hard and unyielding. The relation of the tumour to the uterine wall can usually be recognised on vaginal examination. Except when the tumour is subserous and pedunculated, the cavity of the uterus is enlarged, as may be recognised by passing a sound. Treatment.—The majority of uterine fibroids, as they give rise to little discomfort and involve no risk to the life of theUTERINE FIBROIDS. 565 patient, do not call for any treatment. When marked symptoms are present palliative treatment is only to be undertaken where the menopause is at hand. Among palliative measures may be mentioned curettage of the uterus, and the application of the galvanic electric current, by introducing the positive pole into the uterine cavity, and placing the negative pole over the anterior abdominal wall (Apostole). The electrical treatment not only stops the bleeding, but may also arrest the growth of the tumour, or even bring about a permanent diminution in its size. Operative treatment is called for when haemorrhage, pain, and interference with the general health are so marked that the patient becomes a chronic invalid. Theoretically the ideal operation is myomectomy, which consists in enucleating the tumour without sacrificing any material portion of the uterine wall. This procedure is specially indicated in young women, and in isolated and pedunculated growths of the subserous and interstitial varieties, which can be shelled out of their bed in the uterus. The tumour should be freely exposed through a mesial abdominal incision, isolated, and, if possible, brought out through the wound. An incision is made round the pedicle or into the capsule, and the growth enucleated. Hiemorrhage must be completely controlled by securing the main vessels of supply, by ligaturing the pedicle in the stalked subperitoneal type, and by stitching the bed of the tumour by layers of buried sutures in the sessile and interstitial varieties. Several growths may be removed from the uterus in this way. The abdominal wound is closed without drainage. Most cases, however, do not lend themselves to myomectomy, and removal of the uterus has to be undertaken—hysterectomy In the supra-vaginal operation the cervix is preserved ; in the complete operation—pan-hysterectomy — it is removed along with the rest of the uterus. Opinions differ as to the relative merits of these procedures, but statistics show that the mortality is higher in the complete operation. If the patient has not reached the climacteric, the ovaries should in all cases be pre- served, unless they are diseased. When fibroids complicate pregnancy and give rise to urgent symptoms, it may be necessary to terminate the pregnancy by inducing abortion, or to perform myomectomy or hysterectomy according to circumstances.566 CHAPTER XXXI. THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Surgical anatomy—Examination—Congenital malformations—Inj uries— Foreign bodies—Inflammatory affections and their results: Proctitis; Periproctitis; Ulceration; Cicatricial stricture; Abscesses in the region of the rectum and anus; Fistula-in-ano—Anal fissure— Haemorrhoids or piles—Tumours: Rectal polypi; Carcinoma; Sarcoma—Epithelioma of anus—Prolapse of rectum—Pruritis ani— Incontinence of faeces. Surgical Anatomy.—The lower portion of the intestinal tract is divided into the anal canal, which extends upwards from the margin of the true skin for a distance of about an inch, and the rectum proper, extending from the upper limit of the anal canal to the level at which the peritoneum is reflected from the bowel, which is usually opposite the body of the third sacral vertebra. Above this level is the pelvic colon. The anal canal is lined by a smooth, glossy, muco-cutaneous membrane, which at its lower part has the characters of stratified squamous epithelium, and as it ascends is gradually transformed into the columnar epithelium characteristic of the rectum proper. The skin around the anal orifice is slightly pigmented, and is thrown into folds by the contraction of the external sphincter muscle. It contains numerous sudoriparous and sebaceous glands, and hair follicles. About half-way up the anal canal may sometimes be seen a pale ring running round the bowel—the lohite line of Hilton—which indicates the junction of the external and internal sphincters. The external sphincter, com- posed of voluntary striped muscle, surrounds the anal canal, and is attached posteriorly to the coccyx and anteriorly to the central point of the perineum. It is supplied by nerve filaments derived from several of the sacral nerves. The rectum proper is lined by a thick, vascular mucous membrane, covered by columnar epithelium, and containing numerous tubular mucin-secreting glands and follicles of lymphoid tissue. In the upper part the mucous membrane is arranged in horizontal folds, three or four of which are specially well marked, and as they contain a quantity of submucous and muscular tissue at their bases, they constitute distinct and permanent valves—the valves of Houston. In the lower part of the bowel the folds are longitudinal, and form the columns of Morgagni. Between these columns stretch a series of short semilunar valves, behind which are small crypts—the valves and crypts567 SURGICAL ANATOMY. of Morgagni. This line of valves marks the junction of the anal canal and rectum proper. The submucous connective tissue is specially loose and lax, and in it run the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the bowel. The muscular coat is made up of an outer series of longitudinal fibres, the downward continuation of the three longitudinal bands of the colon, and an inner series of circular fibres. At the lower end of the rectum, for about an inch of its length, the circular fibres are larger and more numerous, and constitute the internal sphincter, the terminal fibres of which interlace with those of the levator ani and external sphincter muscles. The nerve-supply of the muscular tunic, including the internal sphincter, is derived from the pelvic sympathetic plexuses. The arteries that supply the rectum are : the superior heemorrhoidal, the continuation into the pelvis of the inferior mesenteric ; the middle heemorrhoidal, from the inferior vesical ; the inferior heemorrhoidal, a branch of the internal pudic ; and the middle sacral, from the abdominal aorta. The veins begin as small, bulbous sacs, situated along the line of the ano-rectal junction, just above the crypts of Morgagni. The blood entering the superior heemorrhoidal veins is carried through the inferior mesenteric vein into the portal circulation, while that collected by the middle and inferior heemorrhoidal and middle sacral veins enters the general circulation through the vena cava. The lymphatics of the upper part of the bowel enter the sacral and lumbar glands, while those from the anal and perianal region pass to the inguinal glands. Under normal conditions, except when the bowels are about to act, the rectum is empty. In the interval between evacuations the fieces accumulate in the pelvic colon, and the presence of feces in the rectum between stools is an indication that the patient suffers from chronic constipation or from some condition which prevents complete evacuation. Examination.—A digital and visual examination should be made in all cases in which the patient complains of symptoms referable to the rectum, and the lower bowel, if loaded, should first be washed out by an en^ma. The examination may be carried out with the patient lying on the left side, in the lithotomy position, or in the knee-elbow position. In many cases it is most satisfactorily made with the patient bending over the back of a chair. Rubber gloves or a finger-stall should be worn, and the finger lubricated with sterilised vaseline from a collapsible tube. In making the examination the surgeon should note in turn the state of parts around the anus, the condition of the sphincters, the mucous membrane of the anal canal and of the rectum beyond the internal sphincter, with special reference to ulceration, swelling, and the presence of sinuses. The condition of the prostate, seminal vesicles, and coccyx should also be noted. On the finger being withdrawn the presence of discharge or blood should be observed. It is possible in this way to explore the lower four inches of the bowel. When a higher examination is called for, a general aneesthetic should be administered and the sphincters gently stretched. For the inspection of the lower bowel, the best method is that of Howard Kelly. The patient assumes the knee-chest attitude ; the chest rests on the bed and, the pelvis being on a higher level, the pelvic viscera fall away towards the diaphragm, so that when the speculum or proctoscope is introduced air passes in and distends the cavity. A bright light is reflected into the bowel from a forehead mirror. A longerTHE RECTUM AND ANUS. 568 speculum, carrying an electric lamp—the sigmoidoscope—is employed when it is necessary to inspect the pelvic colon. Congenital Malformations.—Development.—The rectum and anal canal are developed independently of one another. The rectum is developed from the posterior part of the hind gut, partly from the hypoblast, and partly from the mesoblast. In the early embryo the hind gut is represented by a cul-de-sac, named the cloaca, into which open the genito-urinary ducts. During the second month of intra-uterine life the cloaca becomes divided into two compartments by the growth of a longitudinal septum. In relation to the anterior of these compartments the genito- urinary organs are de- veloped, while the posterior compartment becomes the rectum. Abnormal com- munications between the rectum and the genito- urinary passage are due to imperfect development of the longitudinal septum. Coincidently with the formation of the rectum, the anal canal undergoes development by the forma- tion in the epiblast of a depression, named the proc- todeum, which lies in line with the rectum, but is separated from it by a strand of epiblast known as the cloacal membrane. About the third month this membrane disappears, and the continuity of the rectum and anal canal is thereby established. Malformations.—These vary according to the period at which the development is arrested, and according to the layers of the blastoderm involved. Interference with the evolution of the hypoblastic and mesoblastic layers leads to malformations of the rectum proper, while errors in the development of the epiblast cause deformities of the anal canal. In certain varieties the escape of meconium and fseces is completely obstructed, in others the obstruction is only partial, and in some the outlet of the alimentary canal, although patent, is abnormally placed. The most common deformity of the anus is its occlusion by a 1 Diseases of the Anus, Rectum, and Pelvic Colon, by Jas. P. Tuttle, 1903. Fia. 151.—Complete absence of the Anus. (After Tuttle.) 1569 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. thin fibrous membrane, which stretches from the centre of the perineum to the region of the coccyx. The meconium bulges this membrane, and forms a dark bluish swelling in the perineum which becomes tense when the infant cries or strains. In some cases the membrane is incomplete, and meconium escapes at its edges. As a rale the canal is normally developed in other respects. Occasionally the anal canal is absent (Fig. 151), the position of the orifice being indicated merely by a slight pigmentation and corrugation of the integument. More frequently the canal is repre- sented by a depression which admits the tip of the little Fig- 152-" finger, but does not communi- cate with the rectum (Fig. 153). In some cases the cavities are only separated by a thin septum—the remains of the cloacal membrane; in others, a bridge of fibrous tissue, varying in thickness, inter- venes between them. Clinical Features.—These abnormalities may escape notice until attention is drawn to the fact that the infant’s bowels have not moved. An examination of the perineum then reveals the deformity. If nothing is done to permit the meconium to escape, the infant becomes restless and irritable, and appears to suffer • from abdominal pain. There is continuous straining and frequent vomiting, and the abdomen becomes distended, tense, and tender. If unrelieved, symptoms of peritonitis ensue, and the condition proves fatal. -Complete absence of Rectum, the Colon ending in a large Dilatation, and the Anus being normally de- veloped. (After Tuttle.) Fig. 153.—Imperforate Anus due to persistence of the Cloacal Membrane. (After Tuttle.)THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 570 The rectum proper may be entirely absent, the colon ending in the pelvis as a cul-de-sac (Fig. 152). In some cases the anal canal also is absent; in others it is fully developed, but is separated from the colon by a thick bridge of fibrous tissue. A more common deformity is that in which the rectum, although fully formed, does not communicate with the anal canal (Fig. 153). The two cavities are separated by a septum which varies in thickness, in some cases being so thin that the meconium causes it to bulge towards the anal canal, in others being so thick that even on bi-manual palpation no trace of the those which result from imperfect formation of the septum that divides the primitive cloaca into its genito-urinary and rectal com- partments. The rectum may then communicate with the vagina, the bladder, or the urethra. In such cases the anal canal may be fully developed, or it also may present abnormalities. In about 50 per cent, of all cases the abnormal opening is into the vagina close to its outlet (Fig. 154),- and the condition may give rise to so little disturbance that it is for long entirely overlooked, and only attracts attention in adult life. Communications with the bladder and urethra are less common, and occur usually in males. The opening is generally so small as only to admit of the passage of meconium and fluid faeces. Obstructive symptoms rectal tube can be detected. In a certain number of cases a pouch of peritoneum in- tervenes between the two cavities — an arrangement which renders it dangerous to attempt to establish a communication by means of a trocar and cannula. In these conditions, the meconium being retained, the clinical features are those of intestinal obstruc- tion. It is seldom possible to determine by physical examination the precise nature and extent of the deformity. Fig. 154.—Imperforate Anus ; the Rectum opens into the Vagina close to its outlet. (After Tuttle.) Communications with the Genito-urinary Passages.— More common than the pre- ceding malformations areINJURIES. 571 ensue if the stools become semi-solid. When the rectum opens into the bladder, the faeces mix with the urine and escape during micturition ; when it opens into the urethra, faeces and gas escape by the meatus independently of micturition. Treatment.—The line of treatment to be adopted, and the time at which it is to be undertaken, vary according to the nature of the deformity, to whether or not there is complete occlusion of the canal, and to the general condition of the patient. When the bowel is completely occluded, relief must be given as soon as the condition is recognised. If the anal orifice is occluded by a fibrous membrane stretched across it, all that is necessary is to cut this and snip it away with scissors. The finger or a bougie should frequently be passed into the canal to prevent subsequent cicatricial contraction. When a thin septum exists at the junction of the anal canal and rectum, a crucial incision must be made in it to allow the meconium to escape, and graduated bougies should be passed to prevent stenosis. When the anal canal and rectum are undeveloped, or are separated from one another by a considerable thickness of fibrous tissue, and in cases where the rectum opens into the bladder and urethra, it is necessary to establish an exit for the meconium either by exposing the end of the alimentary canal by dissection through the perineum, or by performing inguinal colotomy. The infant is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision made in the middle line of the perineum with its centre in the normal position of the anus, in order to conserve such sphincteric fibres as may be present. The dissection is carried down, keeping close to the hollow of the sacrum, until the lower end of the gut is exposed; the latter may be made more evident by pressing down from above. In weakly patients colotomy should be performed, and if the patient survives, an attempt may be made later to expose the rectum from the perineum. When the rectum opens into the vagina there is seldom any urgency in operating, as the intestinal contents escape freely. When the child is old enough to stand the operation, the fistulous opening should be closed by dissecting down between the vagina and the rectum, separating them from one another, and closing the opening in each after the method employed in other fistulse. Injuries.—The most common cause of injury of the rectum is the patient falling on a pointed, projecting object, such as a spike or broom-stick, or a fragment of broken glass or china. The impinging object usually pierces the integument of the perineum, lacerates the perirectal tissues, and wounds the rectum572 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. from without. Less frequently it passes through the anal orifice and perforates the bowel from its mucous aspect. The rectal wall may also be damaged from within by the unskilful use of a rectal bougie or an enema syringe, or from without by a urethral instrument which has made a false passage, or by the surgeon’s knife during the operation of perineal lithotomy or prostatectomy. It has been ruptured by objects introduced intentionally by the patient. The lesion is usually of the nature of a large puncture or tear with contused and lacerated edges. In most instances the whole thickness of the bowel is implicated, and the wound extends into the perirectal tissues. When a pointed object, such as a spike, passes through the anal orifice, it is apt to be forced through the wall of the rectum where it joins the colon, and enter the peritoneal cavity, and at the same time injure the bladder or urethra. The most prominent immediate symptoms are shock, pelvic pain, and haemorrhage. The blood escapes externally, but may also enter the peritoneal cavity. Inflammation of the wall of the bowel, perirectal cellulitis and abscess, and septic peritonitis may ensue. The nature and extent of the injury must be determined by careful examination, and this usually calls for the use of a general anaesthetic. In the case of injury to the rectum the sphincters’ must be stretched to give the required access. If the peritoneum is found to have been opened, laparotomy should be performed to permit of the pelvic cavity being purified, and if the wound can be reached it should be closed. The suturing will be facilitated by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position. Colostomy may be performed to pre- vent the faeces traversing the rectum while the wound is healing. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies may become impacted in the rectum and give rise to symptoms, either by obstructing the canal, or by injuring the wall of the bowel and causing inflammatory complications. Three varieties of foreign bodies are met with: (1) those that are swallowed and pass along the alimentary canal, for example, tooth-plates, game and fish bones, pins, buttons, nails, etc.; (2) those that form in the alimentary canal or its associated glands, such as enteroliths or gall-stones ; and (3) bodies introduced through the. anus by lunatics, criminals, and others, of which an endless variety might be named. When the body lodges in the rectum, the patient complains of a constant feeling of discomfort and desire to empty the573 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. bowel, and, it may be, of painful straining—tenesmus—which only results in the passage of mucus tinged with blood. The mass may press upon the bladder and cause frequency of micturition, or upon the cords of the sacral plexus, and cause shooting pains in the lower extremities simulating those of sciatica. Sharp or irregular bodies, such as fish-bones, pins, or tooth-plates, which become impacted in the rectal wall, cause extreme pain, particularly during and after defecation. The mucous membrane may become ulcerated, and give rise to a muco-purulent discharge and bleeding. An abscess may form in the submucous or perirectal connective tissue. A digital examination of the rectum should be made in all cases in which these symptoms are present, and if this fails to reveal the cause of the patient’s suffering, an examination should be made with the speculum. Treatment.—The removal of small bodies, such as fish-bones, is facilitated by the application to the mucous membrane of a 5 per cent, cocain ointment. In the case of larger bodies a general anaesthetic is required, and great gentleness is called for because of the risk of tearing the bowel. It may be necessary to lay open the anal canal by cutting backwards towards the coccyx. Inflammatory Affections.—Inflammation of the Rectum —Proctitis.—The rectum is subject to the same forms of inflammation as the colon, and it is not uncommon for proctitis and colitis to occur together. The rectal mucosa is specially exposed to bacterial infection from the nature of the contents of the gut, the folds and glandular recesses in the mucous membrane, and the frequency with which it is subjected to minor forms of trauma. Infection may be further aided by conditions causing congestion of the walls of the gut or lowering its vitality, such as the irritation produced by the presence of scybalous masses, foreign bodies, or intestinal parasites, or by the use of drastic purgatives or enemata. Dysenteric proctitis is usually an extension of a similar in- flammation from the colon. Gonorrhoeal infection of the rectum is met with chiefly in women, and is due to the discharge passing backwards from the vulva or to unnatural sexual practices. There is reason to believe that many cases of inflammation and ulceration of the rectum usually attributed to syphilis are of gonorrhoeal origin. Clinical Features.—The patient complains of a persistent feeling of weight and heat in the bowel, and of pains radiating to the loins and down the legs. A sensation as of a foreign574 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. body in the rectum induces a constant desire to empty the bowel, and the attempt is attended with severe tenesmus and bearing down. The motions passed are thin, watery, and acrid, and contain much mucus, which may be tinged with blood. The rectal mucous membrane is injected and swollen, and, on digital examination, is found to be hot and tender. The skin around the anus is irritated by the discharge from the bowel, and may become excoriated and painful. There may be increased frequency of micturition from reflex irritation of the bladder. There is more or less constitutional disturbance, according to the extent and severity of the inflammation. The treatment consists in removing the cause of the inflam- mation when this is possible, in confining the patient to bed, and giving a bland fluid diet. Locally, injections of ice-cold water, or of water as hot as the patient can bear it, give relief. A few drops of laudanum may be added to the fluid injected, or a morphin suppository may be introduced after the injection. Hot hip-baths are also useful. The bowels should be moved regularly by mild laxatives. Periproctitis, or inflammation of the cellular tissue around the rectum, may be due to the spread of an inflammatory or ulcerative process from the bowel, or it may commence as a cellulitis. It usually ends in suppuration and perirectal abscess (p. 582). Ulceration.—Non-malignant ulceration of the rectum may be due to a great variety of pathological conditions. It may, for example, follow on one or other of the varieties of proctitis, or it may be due to the downward spread of an infective colitis. Other forms may be traced to injury of the rectal mucous membrane — for example, by foreign bodies, impacted faecal masses, or the pressure of the foetal head during parturition—or may be associated with the presence of piles, polypus, or stricture. These ulcers are small, rounded, and superficial, and are usually on the posterior wall of the anal canal and adjacent portion of the rectum. The submucous tissue may be infiltrated over a considerable area beyond the ulcer. There is a slight discharge of blood-stained pus, which escapes from the anus and may cause itching of the perianal skin. There is pain while the bowels are acting. It is necessary to refer more particularly to the dysenteric, the tuberculous, and the syphilitic varieties. Dysenteric ulceration often affects the pelvic colon and the rectum simultaneously. The mucous membrane becomes infil- trated here and there with a fibrinous exudate, which raisesULCERATION. 575 the epithelium, and causes it to give way, leaving a series of small superficial ulcers. These tend to spread and to run together, and patches of the mucous membrane may undergo necrosis and leave a large irregular ulcer extending over a con- siderable area of the rectal wall. It is characteristic of the dysenteric ulcer that the mucous membrane surrounding it is more or less inflamed and swollen. Although perforation seldom occurs, perirectal abscesses and fistuhe are not uncommon. The contraction which accompanies the healing of such ulcers may give rise to stenosis of the bowel—dysenteric stricture. Tuberculous ulceration of the rectum is usirally met with in patients who suffer from other tuberculous affections, notably pulmonary phthisis, and the organisms may reach the rectum either by being swallowed in the sputum, or by way of the blood- stream. The ulcer is formed by the coalescence and breaking down of tubercle nodules that have developed in the sub- mucous tissue. It is irregular in outline, its edges are thin and undermined, and its base grey and glazed. A characteristic feature is the presence of firm nodules in the mucous membrane surrounding the ulcer. The ulcerative process may lead to per- foration of the bowel and the formation of tuberculous peri- rectal abscesses and fistulas. As a rule the disease tends to persist, but if healing takes place, it results in the formation of an irregular stricture of the bowel. Syphilitic Ulceration.—The most common form of syphilitic ulceration is that which results from the breaking down of a gumma originating in the submucous tissue — the so-called ano-rectal syphiloma. The ulcers are circular or serpiginous in outline, and have the punched-out appearance which is character- istic of syphilitic ulcers in other situations. The edges are hard and sharply defined, and the base is covered with a greyish- yellow slough or discharge. These ulcers are usually situated just within the anus, and the surrounding mucous membrane is dense and indurated. Perforation may take place, and peri- rectal abscesses and fistulse develop. Stenosis is a common sequel to the cicatrisation of a syphilitic ulcer. It is seldom justifiable to diagnose an ulcer as syphilitic in the absence of a clear history of infection, of other specific manifestations, or of definite improvement under antisyphilitic treatment. Clinical Features.—All these varieties of ulceration are most common in middle life, and are more frequently met with in women than in men. The clinical features of the different forms vary so little that it is often impossible, apart from the historyTHE RECTUM AND ANUS. 576 of the condition, to distinguish between them. The symptoms produced by a given ulcer depend more upon its situation than- upon its size and nature. A small ulcer, for example, situated in the region of the sphincters may give rise to severe pain, tenesmus, and reflex nervous disturbances, while a much larger ulcer higher up in the bowel causes comparatively little discomfort. Morning diarrhoea is one of the earliest and most constant symptoms. The patient is urgently called to stool as soon as he gets up in the morning, but only passes a quantity of thin, muco-purulent, or “ coffee-ground ” matter. This does not give him relief, and he may have severe tenesmus, which necessitates repeated efforts to empty the bowel. At last a solid motion is passed, and he remains comfortable for the rest of the day. As the ulceration progresses, there is a constant dull, aching pain, and the desire to empty the bowel becomes more frequent. There may be griping pain in the lower part of the abdomen and flatulent distension. Later he may suffer from alternating constipation and diarrhoea. On examination with the finger or speculum the ulcer is detected, and is usually found to be within an inch and a half or two inches of the anus. In many cases there are several characteristically club-shaped tags of skin around the anal margin. The symptoms of ulceration often gradually merge into those of stricture. Treatment.—The general and constitutional treatment should be directed to the cause of the ulceration. The patient is usually most comfortable in the recumbent position, with the foot of the bed raised on blocks to diminish congestion of the pelvis. The bowels must be carefully regulated by mild laxa- tives and enemata. The ulcer may be treated by stimulant, sedative, or astringent applications according to its condition; insufflation of iodoform or of orthoform is often useful. The operative measure that gives most relief is division or stretch- ing of the external sphincter ; and the rest afforded to the sore by this means also favours healing. In some cases the ulcer may be scraped and sponged over with pure carbolic acid. When pain is severe morphin or cocain suppositories are indicated. In many cases the most speedy and certain means of effecting a cure is by excising the ulcer. A temporary colostomy may be of service by affording complete rest to the rectum, thus placing the ulcer under the most favourable conditions for healing. Cicatricial Stricture.-—Cicatricial, fibrous, or non-malignant stricture of the rectum may follow on any form of inflammation or ulceration that implicates the submucous and muscular coats of the bowel. It is perhaps most common after syphilitic,STRICTURE. 577 gonorrhoeal, dysenteric, or tuberculous ulceration. Stenosis may also ensue after any operation that involves removal of a considerable portion of the rectal wall, for example, the excision of a malignant growth or the operation for prolapse ; or in which extensive and irregular incisions are made in the bowel, as in the treatment of complicated fistulse. The proportion of syphilitic cases has probably been exagger- ated on account of the tendency to attribute to syphilis all strictures in which no other definite cause can be discovered. Tuberculous stricture is less common than the syphilitic form, as patients who suffer from tuberculous ulceration of the rectum are usually the subjects of advanced pulmonary phthisis, and succumb to this disease before cicatrisation of the ulcer can take place. Stricture may affect any portion of the rectum, but in the great majority of cases is within two or three inches of the anal orifice. The shape and extent of the constriction vary with the cause. When due to diffuse inflammation of the whole thickness of the bowel, for example, it is usually tubular, and implicates several inches of the lumen ; when due to a simple or syphilitic ulcer, it is annular ; whilS in tuberculous cases it tends to be irregular. The bowel above the stricture is dilated, its muscular coat hypertrophied, its mucous membrane the seat of chronic catarrh and ulceration, and perirectal abscess and fistulse may develop. In high strictures the rectum is distended or “ ballooned ” below the stricture, owing to paralysis of the muscular coat and distension of the bowel by gas and faeces. If the constriction is low down, the tone of the sphincters is lost, and the anus becomes patulous, admitting of prolapse of the mucous membrane. Clinical Features.—Non-malignant stricture is most commonly met with in females between the ages of twenty and forty. There is usually a history of some inflammatory or ulcerative condition, followed by a varying interval during which the patient is free of rectal trouble. Later, there is a gradually increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move, and unless recourse is had to drugs or enemata, they may be constipated for days or even weeks. Little importance attaches to the size and shape of the motions. When hard scybalous masses collect above the stricture and irritate the bowel, attacks of diarrhoea supervene, the patient passing quantities of fluid faeces and mucus, but never com- pletely emptying the bowel. Loss of control is a common complaint on the part of the patient. There is frequently a discharge of blood-stained, muco-purulent material, which escapes VOL. II—37THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 578 apart from the stools. If the condition merges into obstruction, the abdomen becomes distended with flatus, the patient loses appetite, and becomes greatly emaciated. The stricture seldom completely occludes the lumen of the gut, but symptoms of acute obstruction may suddenly supervene if a mass of hardened faeces becomes impacted and blocks the passage. All forms of stricture are liable to be complicated by periproctitis, leading to the formation of abscesses and fistulse. The diagnosis is made by digital examination, by the use of the rectal speculum, and by the passage of bougies. Treatment.—In all cases of rectal stricture the diet should be restricted to fluids to diminish the amount of faeces, and the bowels regulated by mild laxatives and the use of enemata. The operative treatment to be adopted in a given case depends upon the site and nature of the stricture. In moderately tight and short annular, or tubular strictures low down in the bowel, the frequent passage of graduated bougies may suffice to keep the patient comfortable. Internal 'proctotomy, which consists in dividing the stricture at one or more points from within the bowel, and then passing large bougies, is only suitable when the stricture is near the anal orifice. It is liable to be followed by septic complications in the perirectal tissues. External or linear proctotomy is employed in long tubular strictures. It consists in carrying an incision through the posterior aspect of the whole length of the stricture or lower part of the bowel, including the sphincters. This ensures complete relief to the obstruction and perfect drainage. During the healing process bougies should be passed from time to time to prevent recontrac- tion. Excision, as for malignant disease of the rectum, with end- to-end suture, may be performed if the stricture is annular and situated low down. Unless primary union takes place it is apt, however, to be followed by the formation of a fresh stricture as a result of cicatricial contraction. Inguinal colostomy may be an essential preliminary in advanced and neglected cases com- plicated with periproctitis and fistulse; the local condition improves as soon as the rectum is afforded absolute rest, and becomes amenable to local measures. Abscesses in the Region of the Rectum and Anus. Suppuration is common in the region of the rectum and anus, and several varieties of abscess are recognised. As a rule the suppurative process is of a low type, the pus forming slowfly and without the acute symptoms which accompany the formation579 ABSCESSES. of an abscess in other parts of the body ; in some cases, however, it is acute and attended with marked constitutional disturbance. In the majority of cases the suppurative process is circum- scribed and a localised abscess forms, but in others the pus is diffused throughout the cellular tissue, and burrows all round the rectum, and even into the pelvis. The pus, wherever it is formed, tends to spread along the lines of least resistance, and usually finds its way towards the nearest cutaneous or mucous surface, producing irregular and tortuous sinuses and iistulse. The organisms most frequently present in these abscesses are the colon bacillus, the streptococcus, and the staphylococcus aureus; the colon bacillus is usually associated with the ordinary pyogenic cocci. The tubercle bacillus is frequently found alone or in combination with pyogenic organisms. The determining cause of the abscess may be an injury of the rectum, for example, by a foreign body, such as a fish-bone impacted in the mucous membrane, a blow or kick over the perineum, or the pressure of an ill-fitting bicycle saddle. In other cases suppura- tion follows an attack of proctitis, an ulcer of the rectum, or is associated with polypus, piles, or stricture. Exposure to cold or wet, by lowering the vitality of the tissues, probably pre- disposes to suppuration. In the majority of cases, however, it is impossible to attribute the formation of the abscess to any one of these causes. Abscesses may occur in the vicinity of the rectum at any age, but are most common above the age of thirty. Males suffer much more frequently than females. Varieties.—The subcutaneous or perianal abscess may origi- nate either in a sebaceous follicle, or in relation to a thrombosed external pile or a fissure. It is situated in the subcutaneous tissue close to the anal margin. The follicular abscess—which is practically a boil—may be single or multiple, and it is not uncommon for several to form one after another, and for these to coalesce and lead to considerable burrowing under the skin. The burrowing usually takes place in a direction away from the bowel, so that a fistula seldom forms. When associated with a fissure or pile the abscess (marginal abscess) is usually single, and tends to burrow towards the mucous membrane, forming a short, superficial fistula (Fig. 158a). These abscesses give rise to itching around the anus and constant throbbing pain, which is aggravated by sitting or walking, and during defecation. Locally there is a small, red, fluctuating swelling, surrounded by an area of induration and oedema. The parts are tender to touch and on rectal examination.THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 580 Treatment.—The abscess should be opened as early as possible to prevent burrowing, and to avoid the formation of a fistula. A crucial or T-shaped incision is made extending well beyond the indurated area, the undermined, unhealthy skin is clipped away with scissors, the surface scraped and purified, and the open surface thus formed covered with a pad of iodoform gauze. Care should be taken not to divide the external sphincter. The after-treatment of this, and of other varieties of rectal abscess, calls for much attention to prevent the formation of a fistula. The wound should be dressed twice a day, the packing being carefully adjusted to ensure that healing takes place from the bottom. Hot sitz baths at the time the dressing is changed are useful in promoting discharge and ensuring cleanliness. Purgatives are to be avoided. An easy movement of the bowels may be ensured by injecting an ounce or two of warm olive oil into the rectum each night. In some cases the introduction of a rectal flatus-tube, or dilatation of the sphincter after the abscess has been opened, is useful in allaying spasm of the sphincters and preventing distension of the bowel by flatus (Tuttle). Ischio-rectal Abscess.—(Fig. 155).—This form of abscess be- gins in the loose cellular tissue of the ischio-rectal space as a septic cellulitis, which, in the course of a few days, ends in suppura- tion. At first the pus is scattered throughout the meshes of the cellular tissue, but it soon comes to fill the space and to bulge it in every direction. The weakest part of the abscess wall is situated towards the back of the rectum, where the posterior edges of the levatores ani blend with the ano-coccygeal liga- ments, and at this point the pus usually burrows into the rectum, passing between the external and the internal sphincters. In some cases it finds its way across the middle line, and so comes to invade the ischio-rectal fossa of the opposite side, forming what is known as a “dumb-bell” or “liorse-shoe abscess.” Either before or after bursting into the rectum, the pus also finds an exit through the skin, and in this way a complete fistula is formed. Clinical Features.—The condition usually develops some- what acutely, and is ushered in by a rigor and general feeling of malaise. There is at first a dull, aching pain in the ischio-rectal fossa, which later assumes a throbbing character. The patient is unable to sit or to walk with comfort, and there is intense pain during defecation. Frequently there is retention of urine. A hot, red, and tender swelling develops in the perineum to one side of the anus, and the surrounding integu- ment becomes indurated and cedematous. On rectal examina-ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS. 581 tion a tense, elastic swelling, which does not encroach much on the bowel, can be detected in the ischio-rectal fossa. The symptoms may suddenly abate if the abscess bursts either into the rectum or on the surface, but the opening being small is liable to become blocked and the symptoms reappear. In some cases the recurrence of symptoms is due to the formation of an abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa of the opposite side. The pus which escapes may be yellow and creamy, or dark brown and grumous from admixture with broken-down blood-clot. It is always extremely foetid, and often contains putrefactive gases. When the abscess is tuberculous it runs a more chronic course. Treatment.—No time should be wasted by applying poultices, ice-bags, or other local applications, in the hope of aborting the abscess. As early as possible a crucial or T-shaped incision Ilium Acetabulum 'External sphincter Fin. 155.—Diagram of Ischio-rectal and Pelvi-rectal Abscesses. should be made into the abscess so as to lay it freely open, and the finger introduced and all septa broken down. The cavity is then purified and packed with iodoform worsted. The after- treatment is carried out on the lines already indicated for perianal abscess. The submucous abscess originates in the submucous tissue of the lower part of the rectum, and is usually due either to injury of the mucous membrane by a foreign body, or to a tear or ulcer near the base of a polypus or pile. The pus is almost always confined to one lateral aspect of the bowel, and it tends to burrow towards the anus, and to burst close to the anal margin, forming a short and shallow blind internal fistula (Fig. 159a). The symptoms resemble those of an ischio-rectal abscess, but there is no external swelling. On digital examination a soft, fluctuating swelling can be felt bulging towards the bowel. This582 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. should be incised, the unhealthy mucous membrane clipped away, and after scraping the cavity it is packed with iodoform worsted. The pelvi-rectal abscess (Fig. 155) is situated between the rectum and the levator ani muscle, in the loose connective tissue which is continuous above with the • various cellular planes of the pelvis. It differs from the other varieties in that it is comparatively seldom due to disease or injury of the rectum itself, in the majority of cases originating in the pelvis in relation to the base of the bladder, the prostate, the uterus, or the broad ligament. Sometimes the pus from a psoas or an appendicitic abscess, or from a focus of disease in the pelvic bones, finds its way into the pelvi-rectal space. Very frequently the pus burrows through the substance of the levator ani and invades the ischio-rectal fossa. The clinical features vary with the nature and seat of origin of the abscess. In most cases they are those of an ordinary pelvic cellulitis, followed by the development of a localised abscess in the vicinity of the rectum. In other cases they resemble those of an ischio-rectal abscess. On digital examina- tion of the rectum, a swelling is found bulging towards the bowel above the level of the internal sphincter, and, it may be, extend- ing beyond the reach of the finger. The treatment consists in opening the abscess at its accessible part, establishing efficient drainage, and dealing with the lesion from which it originated. Ano-Rectal Fistula.—The term fistula-in-ano is applied to any abnormal channel passing through the tissues in the vicinity of the rectum and anus, and opening either on the skin or into the rectum, or in both directions. Three varieties are recog- nised : (1) the complete fistula, which opens both on the cutane- ous and on the mucous surfaces (Fig. 156); (2) the blind external fistula, which opens only towards the skin (Fig. 158); and (3) the blind internal, which opens only towards the mucous membrane (Fig. 159). Inasmuch as the blind forms have only one opening, they would be more correctly described as sinuses. The fistulous track represents the shrunken but unobliterated cavity of an abscess, which has been prevented from healing by various causes, the most important of which are imperfect drain- age and constant reinfection of the raw surfaces. Other factors which favour the formation and persistence of fistula are the passage of faeces and flatus along the channel, the constant movement of the parts, caused by the contraction of the583 ANO-RECTAL FISTULA. sphincters and other muscles, and the irregularity of the abscess cavity. The complete fistula is the form most frequently met with, about 70 per cent, of all cases being of this variety. It is usually due to an ischio-rectal or a pelvi-rectal abscess having burst both towards the bowel and v towards the skin. There are usually two or more external open- ings situated within an inch or an inch and a half of the anus. The internal opening, which is almost always single, is most com- monly found exactly opposite the space be- tween the external and internal sphincters (Fig. burrows upwards under Fig. 156.—Diagram of complete Fistulse. 156a). Sometimes, however, the pus the mucous membrane and opens at a higher level (Fig. 1566). The track of the fistula is irregular and tortuous, with one or more dilatations in its course. On rectal examination it is recognised by the induration of the tissues around it. It is not always easy to pass a probe from one opening to the other on account of the ir- regular diverticula in the track of the chan- nel. When the fistula follows a bilateral or “ horse-slioe ” abscess the channel may sur- round the rectum, and openings form on both sides — f horse - shoe fistula.” As a rule the burrowing is most marked towards the posterior aspect of the rectum (Fig. 157). There is always more or less pain and spasmodic contraction of the sphincters. The bowels are usually loose, and thin faeces may escape from the opening, soiling the linen. The patient is liable to become mentally depressed or even melancholic. Blind external Fistula.—About 20 per cent, of rectal fistulae Fig. 157.—Diagram of Horse-Shoe Fistula result ing from bilateral ischio-rectal abscess.THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 584 Pig. 158. resulting from rectal abscess. Diagram of Blind External Fistulae, perianal abscess, and (b) ischio- belong to this variety. The fistula may result from the bursting of a perianal abscess, in which case the channel is comparatively short and entirely subcutaneous, and the opening lies close to the anal margin (Fig. 158a). In other cases it follows an ischio-rectal abscess, the sinus being deeper, and the opening farther away from the anus (Fig. 1586). After the symptoms referable to the ab- scess subside, the sinus discharges a small amount of thin sero-pus. The open- ing frequently closes up, and the discharge is retained for a day or two, but soon bursts out again. In some cases fresh ex- ternal openings form in the anal region, and in others the pus burrows into the rectum, and the fistula becomes complete. In cases of blind external fistula there is comparatively little pain on defecation, and there is no spasm of the sphincters. Beyond slight staining of the linen, the patient has little discomfort. Blind internal fistula is the least common form, only about 10 per cent, of all cases being of this variety. There is usually a history of an abscess having burst into the rectum, and of pus and blood having escaped from the bowel. When the abscess is of the sub- mucous variety the fistula is compara- tively shcrt, and runs immediately under the mucous membrane, opening usually near the anal margin (Fig. 159a). When the fistula follows a pelvi-rectal abscess it is longer, more tortuous, and usually opens above the sphincters (Fig. 1596). A cliaracter- Fig. 159.—Diagram of Blind Internal Fistulae : a, following submucous abscess ; b, following pelvi- rectal abscess.585 TUBERCULOUS FISTULA. istic feature of the blind internal fistula is the way in which it repeatedly closes for a time and reopens again. There is tenesmus and pain on defecation. On digital examination the track of the fistula may be recognised as an indurated cord in the perirectal tissues, and the opening is felt as a small pit or depression with thickened edges. The opening is usually single, and is most frequently situated towards the posterior part of the rectum. When the fistula is due to the bursting of a prostatic abscess into the rectum, the opening is on the anterior wall. Tuberculous Fistula.—A considerable number of cases of fistula-in-ano are tuberculous in character. Great difference of opinion exists as to the relative frequency of such cases, and as to the precise role played by the tubercle bacillus. Some authorities believe that the ano-rectal condition is frequently a primary manifestation of tuberculosis, while others hold that the fistulous track is infected secondarily. Statistics seem to show that while fistula is by no means common in phthisical patients, a considerable number of those who suffer from fistula subse- quently develop tuberculosis. The complete form is that most frequently met with. It differs from the ordinary pyogenic fistula, chiefly in being situated towards the anterior, rather than towards the posterior part of the rectum, and in being for the most part painless and insensitive. The track of the fistula is markedly indurated, the discharge thin, pale, and watery, and the skin around the opening is usually undermined and of a bluish colour. In many cases the diagnosis can only be made with certainty by bacteriological examination of a scraping of the wall of the channel. Treatment.—The only satisfactory method of treating fistula- in-ano is to lay the whole length of the track and all its burrowings freely open, in order that they may be thoroughly disinfected and made to heal from the bottom. In doing this the internal sphincter should be injured as little as possible to avoid the risk of incontinence. If it is necessary to divide the external sphincter, the muscular fibres should be cut straight across, and not obliquely, and they should not be cut at more than one place. To ensure sound healing it is essential that the internal opening of the fistula be found and laid open. In a complete fistula a flexible probe or director is passed along the track from the external to the internal opening, a finger is introduced into the rectum, and when the end of the probe is felt it is bent and withdrawn through the anus. A curved probe-pointed bistoury is passed along its track, and the bridge of tissue between the probe and the surface cut through.THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 586 The walls of the fistula are then scraped with a sharp spoon and sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and the wound packed with iodoform worsted. A careful search is made for any lateral offshoots from the main track, and if found these are opened up and treated in the same way. The wound must be dressed frequently to prevent septic complications, and must be packed so that it heals from the bottom. A blind external fistula, when superficial to the internal sphincter, should be converted into a complete fistula by passing a probe along its track, and forcing it through the mucous membrane at the upper end. The track is then laid freely open and treated in the manner above described. If the fistula passes deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, and approaches the rectum above and outside the internal sphincter, it should not be opened into the rectum, as this would necessitate dividing the internal sphincter. The external sinus should be freely enlarged, purified, and packed. A blind internal fistula, if submucous and below the internal sphincter, is rendered complete and slit up. If the internal opening passes through or above the internal sphincter, the fistula should be rendered complete, but should not be slit up. The external part is opened freely and thoroughly packed in the hope that the internal opening may close. Tuberculous fistulce are treated on the same principle as other forms, provided the general condition of the patient warrants operation. Fistulse between the rectum and other organs.—The most common of these is the recto-vaginal fistula which, in the majority of cases, results from rupture of the perineum, or from prolonged pressure of the foetal head, during labour. Sometimes it is due to syphilitic ulceration or to malignant disease. Gas and faeces escape into the vagina, setting up irritation and a persistent leucorrheal discharge. On digital examination both openings can be felt; they can be seen also through the speculum. The only satisfactory treatment is to pare or split the edges of the fistula, and re-form the septum between the rectum and vagina, or to excise the whole fistulous track and perform perineorraphy. Recto-urethral fistula is almost always met with in men, and is frequently associated with the presence of a stricture of the urethra. It may be produced by injury, such as the making of a false passage, or may follow the bursting of a prostatic or peri-urethral abscess. Less frequently it is due to the spread of malignant disease. It is more common for urine to pass into the rectum than for gas and feces to enter the urethra. On digital587 ANAL FISSURE. examination the rectal opening is usually felt above the internal sphincter. The best results have been obtained by making a temporary artificial anus, and systematically drawing off the water with the catheter. Various plastic operations have been tried, but without much success. Recto-vesical fistula is rare. It may result from the same pathological conditions as the urethral variety, but is most frequently due to the spread of cancer of the rectum. Anal Fissure.—This term is applied to a small irritable ulcer situated close to the anal orifice. The sore is usually elliptical or pear-shaped, and lies in one of the folds into which the integument around the anus is thrown by the contraction of the external sphincter. It is almost always single, and varies in length from a quarter to one inch, its narrow upper end being situated on the mucous membrane, reaching to the lower border of the internal sphincter; while its broader, lower end may extend on to the skin and overlie the external sphincter. In depth the sore varies from a superficial abrasion of the mucous membrane to an ulcer which exposes, or may even invade, the muscular fibres of the external sphincter. The edges are usually inflamed and elevated, and curl in over the feeble granulations which cover the base of the ulcer. At the lower end of the fissure there is frequently an cedeinatous or hypertrophied tag of skin simulating an external pile, and named by Brodie the sentinel pile. The most common cause of these ulcers is laceration of the mucous membrane by the passage of hard faecal masses or foreign bodies, or, in women, overstretching of the mucous membrane of the anterior rectal wall during parturition. Ac- cording to Ball, in the majority of cases the initial lesion is a tear or rupture of one of the crypts of Morgagni, and the swollen and oedematous margins of the valve constitute the sentinel pile. Fissure may be associated with piles, polypus, fistula, or other rectal affections. Clinical Features.—Fissure is usually met with in adult life, and is, on the whole, more common in women than in men. When it occurs in childhood it is usually a result of inherited syphilis. The most characteristic symptom is intense pain during and after defecation, from spasmodic contraction of the sphincters and levator ani muscles. In the early stages, while the ulcer is comparatively superficial, the pain is of an acute tearing or cutting nature, and lasts only for a few minutes. Later it becomes burning, and is accompanied by spasm of the sphincters and bearing-down sensations, which may last for an588 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. hour or two. When the ulceration exposes the fibres of the external sphincter the pain is of a dull, aching, or throbbing character, and is more or less continuous. In addition to the local pain the patient may suffer from reflex pains radiating to the back, the pelvic organs, and down the legs. In some cases there is pain and difficulty in micturition. The motions may be altered in shape, and sometimes show a streak of blood. On separating the buttocks the small ulcer and its sentinel pile, if present, may be seen. It is most frequently situated towards the posterior margin of the anus, particularly in men. In women, when due to tearing of the mucous membrane during parturition, it occurs on the anterior wall. The sore is extremely sensitive when touched or stretched, or when the patient attempts to strain. The sphincter and levator muscles are firmly con- tracted. To the finger the fissure feels like the edges of a buttonhole. The occurrence of bleeding in cases of fissure suggests the presence of piles or polypus, and purulent discharge is usually due to an associated fistula. A digital examination of the rectum should always be made to discover if there is any other affection present, such as polypus, piles, or fistula, and in making the examination the finger should be pressed against the side of the anus opposite to that on which the fissure is situated. Treatment.—In slight and early cases careful regulation of the bowels, scrupulous attention to cleanliness, and the use of soothing antiseptic applications, such as orthoform, ichthyol, mercurial ointment, or iodoform and cocain suppositories give relief, and may even effect a cure. In more severe and persistent cases, it is necessary to paralyse the external sphincter for a sufficiently long time to enable the sore to heal. This may be done by carrying an incision through the base of the fissure, and so dividing the fibres of the external sphincter. When the edges of the fissure are indurated they should be snipped away with scissors. A simple antiseptic dressing is applied, and the bowels kept at rest for a few days. The sphincter usually regains its power in about a fortnight. Another method of treatment consists in forcibly stretching the sphincter, so that its power of contracting is temporarily arrested. When the fissure is associated with polypus, piles, or other disease of the rectum, it is necessary to treat these conditions. Hemorrhoids or Piles. The term haemorrhoids or piles is applied to a varicose and hypertrophied condition of the veins at the lower end of the589 INTERNAL PILES. rectum and anal canal. Two varieties are recognised : internal piles, which originate inside the anal orifice, and implicate the terminal branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels; and external piles, which lie outside the external sphincter and im- plicate the branches of the inferior htemorrhoidals. When both varieties co-exist, as is frequently the case, the piles are spoken of as mixed. Internal Piles.—The internal is the more common and more important variety. Each pile consists of a central arterial twig, surrounded by a bunch of varicose and sacculated veins, and a varying quantity of condensed connective tissue — the whole forming an elongated, pear-shaped swelling over which is stretched the rectal mucous membrane. There may be only one pile present, in which case it usually lies in the right anterior quadrant of the rectum, or there may be several scattered round the bowel, the rounded ends of the piles reaching down to the muco-cutaneous junction. Phlebitis and periphlebitis frequently occur in relation to piles, and phleboliths may form in throm- bosed veins. Piles may occur at any period of life, but are rarely met with before puberty, and are most common between the ages of forty and sixty. The two sexes seem to suffer with about equal frequency, but men apply for treatment much oftener than do women. Many factors contribute to the pro- duction of piles, the most important of which are habitual con- stipation, and repeated and prolonged causes of straining, for example, enlarged prostate, urethral stricture, or stone in the bladder. Increased backward pressure in the venous circulation, such as occurs, for example, in cirrhosis of the liver and in heart disease, also tends to induce piles. The pressure of the enlarged uterus during pregnancy, or of abdominal or pelvic tumours, acts in the same way. In many cases there is a distinct hereditary tendency towards the development of piles, as there is in other forms of varix. Clinical Features.—Three degrees or stages may be recognised. In the first degree the piles remain inside the anal orifice, and are not protruded during defecation or on straining. The veins are varicose, but do not form distinct masses. In the second degree the vessels are dilated and sacculated, and form fleshy masses, which are protruded during defecation but return spontaneously after the act, or can be readily returned by the patient. In the third degree the piles remain protruded and can only be returned by the patient with difficulty, if at all, and there is frequently also some prolapse of the mucous membrane.590 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. In addition to the protrusion of the pile mass from the anus, the most important symptoms are haemorrhage, pain, and dis- charge of mucus. In piles of the first degree the bleeding is usually slight, in some cases amounting only to a streaking of the motion, or to the loss of a few drops of blood at each act of defecation. It only occurs while the bowels are moving, and is most marked when the motions are hard and the bowels constipated. If the Fig. 160.—Protruded Internal Piles, with oedema of skin round anus. bowels are kept regular and the motions soft, there may be no bleeding. It is in piles of the second degree that bleeding becomes a prominent and serious symptom. As a rule the blood escapes from the piles after they have been protruded, and continues to flow as long as they remain down, the bleeding being due to interference with the venous return caused by constriction of the neck of the piles by the spasmodically contracted external sphincter. In such cases the blood is venous in character, and escapes from the surface of the pile mass in a steady ooze, and the bleeding stops whenever the piles are returned within the bowel.INTERNAL PILES. 591 la other eases bright arterial blood comes in jets from a single nicer on a protruded pile, and the bleeding may continue after the piles have been returned, with the result that a considerable quantity of blood collects in the rectum, and is passed, either in a fluid or coagulated state, some time after defecation. From piles of the second degree the patient may lose from several drams to several ounces of blood each time the bowels move, and as a consequence he becomes weak and amende, and exhibits a characteristic clay-like pallor. Such patients also tend to become unduly irritable, anxious, or mentally depressed. In piles of the third degree, there is seldom much bleeding, as the mucous membrane becomes thickened and leathery, and the normal columnar epithelium covering it is replaced by stratified squamous epithelium. Pain localised to the lower part of the bowel is seldom severe in uncomplicated cases of piles, except while they are actually protruded and constricted by the sphincter, and it ceases soon after the piles are returned. If pain persists for any length of time after reduction, the presence of a fissure should be suspected. On the other hand, pains referred to the sacral and lumbar regions are common to all forms and degrees of piles. It is only in piles of the third degree that a profuse discharge of mucus takes place, and in some cases this gives rise to con- siderable irritation and pruritis of the skin around the anus. Diagnosis.—A local examination should always be made on a patient who complains of “ piles,” as this term is applied by the laity to all conditions affecting the lower bowel, and it is necessary to exclude such affections as condylomata, fistula, and cancer. In cases of piles it is usually found that the skin around the anus is loose and lax, and that the normal folds or rugae are markedly redundant and often oedematous. If the piles are of long standing and are uncomplicated by fissure or ulceration, the sphincters are usually relaxed, and the piles can be brought into view by the patient straining slightly. When a fissure or ulcer is present the sphincters are spasmodically contracted, and the piles cannot be brought down by straining. The piles may be seen with the speculum, but a digital examination does not always reveal their presence, in many cases nothing more than a series of ridges on the mucous membrane close to the anal orifice being recognisable. In the majority of cases the upper part of the rectum contains fames even although there has been a recent action of the bowels. It is not uncommon to meet with cases in which there is a592 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. persistent slight loss of blood from the rectum, which gradually produces a profound degree of anaemia. The usual signs of piles are absent, and it is only on making a proctoscopic examina- tion that the source of the bleeding is found to be a mass of varicose veins in the upper part of the rectal mucous membrane —six to eight inches from the anus. If these vessels are destroyed by the galvano-cautery, the haemorrhage ceases. Inflammation and Strangulation of Internal Piles. — In some cases internal piles periodically become the seat of acute inflammation—phlebitis and periphlebitis—attended with pain, tenesmus, and bleeding, while the skin around the anal margin is swollen and oedematous. This condition, which is spoken of as “an attack of the piles,” lasts for a few days, and then gradually subsides. It frequently happens also that piles of the second degree, after becoming prolapsed, are so tightly grasped by the sphincter that the circulation through them is completely obstructed. The extruded mass becomes swollen and oede- matous, blood escapes from the distended vessels into the surrounding connective tissue, and in some cases gangrene of the piles takes place. This occurrence is accompanied by severe local pain and some constitutional disturbance. When the slough separates the patient obtains relief. Piles of the third degree also may become engorged from various causes, notably septic infection, and be so tightly constricted that they slough off. Pyaemia has been known to follow septic thrombosis of piles. Treatment.—All cases of piles of the first degree, and mild cases of the second degree, should be treated by palliative measures in the first instance. As constipation is usually present, the bowels should be carefully regulated by the administration of such drugs as cascara, sulphur, castor oil, or one or other of the natural mineral waters, or by suitable dietary, so that the patient has a soft, easy motion at least once a day. Drastic purgatives, and especially such as contain aloes, are to be avoided, as excessive action of the bowels aggravates the hfemorrhoidal condition. Alcohol, too, should be avoided. Any cause for straining that may be present— such, for example, as stricture, prostatic enlargement, or vesical calculus—should also be remedied. If the motions tend to be hard, defecation is rendered easier, and bleeding may be prevented by lubricating the passage before the act with vaseline introduced with the finger, or by injecting an ounce of olive oil into the bowel. After defecation the injection of a593 INTERNAL PILES. few ounces of cold water into the rectum and cold sponging of the perineum are useful in toning up the rectal muscles. Local styptics, applied in the form of ointments, or as suppositories containing adrenalin, hazeline, gallic or tannic acid, may be used, but are not always efficacious. Inasmuch as an “attack of the piles” may lead to cure of the condition by thrombosis or sloughing of the affected veins, it is sometimes advisable to palliate the symptoms during the attack by soothing anodyne applications. In most cases, however, it is better to give the patient a general anaesthetic and remove the piles. Operative Treatment.—It is only necessary to refer particu- larly to three of the many operative procedures that have been suggested for the treatment of internal piles : ligature, excision, and clamp and cautery. Two or three days before the operation the bowels should be freely opened by castor oil, and no solid food should be taken thereafter. The evening before the operation the bowel should be washed out with a simple enema or with boracic lotion. Ligature.—This is the most simple and the most generally applicable method of treatment. Under general anaesthesia the anus is dilated by stretching the sphincters, and the piles are thus brought into view. Each pile is grasped separately by suitable forceps, and, after the mucous membrane around its base has been snipped through “with scissors, is securely tied with strong silk or pile-twine, and the part of the pile beyond the ligature cut off. If the ligature is carried through the base of the pile with a blunt needle and applied as a Staffordshire knot, there is no risk of it slipping off the stump. Redundant folds of skin around the anus should be snipped off with scissors, and any haemorrhage arrested by pressure or ligature. Excision.—A simple and safe method suggested by Mitchell, of Belfast, consists in clamping the base of each pile with a pair of Kocher’s artery forceps applied in the long axis of the bowel, and, after cutting off the redundant portion of the pile, intro- ducing a continuous catgut suture which includes the clamp and the tissues around the base of the pile. Just before tightening up the suture the clamp is removed. The suture not only arrests all bleeding, but also closes the wound, so that healing takes place more rapidly, and no raw surface being left, the bowels may be encouraged to move from the third day. Whitehead’s method, which consists in excising the whole of the pile-bearing area of mucous membrane, has been almost entirely abandoned on account of the loss of blood which it entails, and because it is needlessly severe for the majority of cases. VOL. II—38594 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Clamp and Cautery.—In this method the base of each pile is seized with a specially constructed clamp, applied in a direction radiating from the anus, and the pile is burned off and its stump seared with the cautery at a dull-red heat. This method is of special service in friable or ulcerated piles. After-Treatment.—A morphin suppository (-£ to \ a grain) is introduced into the rectum, and a dressing of gauze smear eel with vaseline applied and retained in position by a T-shaped bandage. The dressing should be changed daily. Many patients have difficulty in passing water' after the operation. The catheter, however, should not be used unless absolutely necessary, as, if once used, it may not be dispensed with for some days, and there is a risk of infecting the bladder. The patient is kept on a fluid diet until the bowels are moved on the third or fourth day; a dose of castor oil at night, followed by the injection of about half a pint of warm olive oil in the morning, ensures a soft and easy evacuatiop. The patient should be confined to bed for about a week or ten days. External Piles. — These may occur either alone or in association with internal piles. Several different conditions are included under the term “ external piles.” The variety that most frequently coexists with internal piles consists in a dilatation and slight varicosity of the subcutaneous veins around the anal orifice. The turgescence of the vessels is only evident when the patient strains, and then the perianal skin, which is usually loose and redundant, is raised as a bluish cushion-like ring, which completely surrounds the orifice. When the patient ceases to strain the swelling disappears. This condition is common in patients who are habitually constipated, or who follow a sedentary occupation. It giveB rise to no trouble beyond a slight feeling of fulness at the anus during and immediately after defecation, and a sensation as if the bowel had not been completely emptied. This causes excessive straining which aggravates the condition, and the external sphincter becomes hypertrophied and indurated. When internal piles coexist bleeding and pain are usually present. The treatment of this variety consists in removing the piles. The term venous or thrombotic pile is applied to a condition in which an extravasation of blood takes place around one of the perianal veins which has been ruptured by violent straining of any kind, for example, during defecation or in making some severe muscular effort. The effused blood forms a small, rounded, tense, bluish swelling just beneath the skin or muco- cutaneous surface. At first the swelling is soft, but later, whenEXTERNAL PILES. 595 the blood coagulates and the connective tissue around it becomes condensed, it becomes firm. This condition was formerly supposed to be due to thrombosis occurring in a varicose vein, but this is seldom the true explanation. At the moment of rupture the patient experiences a sharp, pricking pain, as if something had given way in the vicinity of the anus. This is immediately followed by the appearance of a swelling, which is painful and tender. The acute pain soon subsides and gives place to a dull feeling of tension, which in the course of a week or ten days disappears. In some cases the swell- ing also disappears, in some a fibrous nodule remains, and in others infection of the clot takes place and a perianal abscess forms. The treatment consists in making an incision over the swelling and turning out the clot. The wound usually heals in two or three days. A third condition, sometimes, but erroneously called the “ connective-tissue external pile,” is met with in the vicinity of the anus. It consists merely in an hypertrophied tag of peri- anal skin—the so-called “ dog-ear pile.” It does not contain any varicose vein, and is, strictly speaking, not a pile at all. The swelling causes itching and irritation around the anus, and may become infected and give rise to a perianal abscess. Such swellings are frequently found at the lower end of a fissure, and constitute the so-called sentinel pile. These tags of skin should be snipped off with scissors, the bleeding being arrested by forceps and a ligature or suture. Under an antiseptic dressing the wound rapidly heals. Tumours of Rectum. Tumours of the rectum may be simple or malignant, and transitional forms are met with which it is impossible to place definitely in either class. Innocent Tumours.—As the majority of innocent rectal tumours tend to be pedunculated, they are spoken of generically as rectal 'polypi. The term polypus, however, only denotes that a growth is attached to the rectal wall by a longer or shorter pedicle, and conveys no indication of its histological structure. The pedicle is composed of a varying quantity of submucous connective tissue covered by mucous membrane, and in it run the vessels that supply the growth. The traction exerted on the tumour by the muscular efforts of the bowel in attempting to expel it tends gradually to lengthen the pedicle. As a rule the tumour is single, but in some cases there are596 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. several independent growths present. Multiple polypi scattered over the rectal mucous membrane in many respects resemble the condition met with in the colon, described on p. 506. The most common varieties of polypi are the adenoma and the fibroma. The adenoma is usually met with in children, and originates in one of the glands of the rectal mucosa, forming a soft, vascular tumour varying in size from a small cherry to a walnut. It is of a dull-red colour, and being somewhat irregular on the surface resembles a large raspberry in appearance. It may be sessile, or may have a pedicle varying in length from one to four or five inches. The fibrous polypus differs from the adenomatous variety chiefly in the fact that the fibrous tissue is greatly in excess of the other elements in the growth. It is met with in adults, and forms a hard, nodular tumour covered by thickened mucous membrane. It is usually pear-shaped, and about the size of a hen’s egg, but may attain much greater dimensions. Clinical Features.—The main symptoms of polypi are irrita- bility of the rectum, a sensation as if a foreign body were present, and a constant desire to empty the bowel. The tenesmus is accompanied by a discharge of thin and offensive mucus, and there is sometimes slight bleeding. During defeca- tion the tumour may be extruded through the anus, and its pedicle grasped by the sphincter. In some cases the pedicle is torn and the polypus passed with the faeces. On digital examination, the growth may be detected by passing the finger well into the rectum and sweeping it round the bowel in order to catch on the pedicle, and it may be possible to protrude the tumour from the anus. Anal fissure is a common accompani- ment of fibrous polypus, and prolapse of the bowel is frequently induced by the constant straining, particularly in children. The treatment consists in stretching the sphincters, apply- ing a ligature around the pedicle as high up as possible, and snipping away the polypus. If the pedicle is very narrow the growth may be twisted off without much risk of bleeding, but care must be taken in doing this not to tear the mucous membrane. When the base of the pedicle is broad, the anus should be dilated, and after the ligature has been applied and the tumour cut off, the mucous membrane should be sutured with catgut. The soft sessile adenomata of children are removed with the sharp spoon or curette. The papilloma or villous tumour of the rectum, although not common, calls for special mention on account of its tendency to show signs of malignancy by recurring after removal andTUMOURS. 597 assuming the characters of a carcinoma. It forms a red, lobulated growth, about the size of a crown piece, on the surface of the mucous membrane, covered with long, club-shaped villous processes. It is usually sessile, but the mucous membrane at its base may become loose and lax and form a pedicle. This form of tumour occurs in adults, and gives rise to marked tenesmus and a profuse discharge of pale, sticky mucus and blood. There is not much pain, but the patient becomes weak and anaemic. The absence of fixation and induration at the base helps to distinguish the growth from carcinoma. The treatment consists in excising the tumour, along with the mucous membrane around its base. If recurrence takes place, recourse must be had to excision of the rectum. Malignant Tumours—Carcinoma.—All forms of carcinoma are met with in the rectum, but the colunmar-celled variety is by far the most common. In patients below the age of forty the colloid form is frequently met with. The tumour originates in the epithelium of the glands of the mucosa, and on microscopic section exhibits appearances that have led to the name “ malignant adenoma ” being applied to it. The growth may extend in the form of a fiat plaque between the mucous membrane and the muscular coat of the rectum, until it sur- rounds the bowel and gives rise to a form of annular stricture. Less frequently it grows uniformly in all directions, projecting on the one hand towards the lumen of the bowel, and on the other towards the pelvic cavity where it presses upon and infiltrates adjacent structures. In a majority of cases the growth involves, either primarily or by extension, the part of the bowel above the reflection of the peritoneum—a point of importance in prognosis and treatment. The mucous membrane may remain intact, until the growth has spread to a considerable extent both in the wall of the bowel and towards its lumen, but eventually it is destroyed, and the raw surface of the cancer is exposed, forming an irregularly circular crater-like ulcer, with raised and indurated edges. The formation of the ulcer is associated with an abundant discharge of mucus, mixed with a variable quantity of blood. As the tumour increases in size it forms adhesions to surrounding viscera—notably the bladder, prostate, and vagina—and to the pelvic walls, and in this way the rectum becomes fixed to its surroundings. In the early stages the fixation of the rectum is due to contraction of newly-formed fibrous tissue, but later the malignant disease itself invades the surrounding parts, and incorporates them. Sometimes suppuration occurs in the adjacent connective tissue,THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 598 and the bursting of an abscess into the bladder or vagina may establish a recto-vesical or recto-vaginal fistula. In some cases an ischio-rectal abscess forms, and, after bursting, leaves an intractable form of fistula-in-ano. The lymphatic glands in the hollow of the sacrum, and those lying alongside the lumbar vertebrae, are enlarged at an early stage of the disease; the enlargement, however, is not necessarily malignant, but in the early stages may be the result of septic infection. The enlarged sacral glands may sometimes be recognised on digital examina- tion of the rectum. Metastatic growths most frequently occur in the peritoneum, liver, and lungs. Clinical Features.—Cancer of the rectum is a disease chiefly of adult life, but it occasionally occurs in young subjects. We have met with a case of colloid cancer in a boy, aged twelve and a half. It is more common in men than in women. As the disease gives rise to little or no discomfort in its earliest stages, and as the first symptoms are usually attributed by the patient to constipation or to piles, the surgeon is seldom con- sulted until the disease has advanced to a considerable extent. The first thing to arrest the patient’s attention is an increasing difficulty in obtaining a regular action of the bowels, which necessitates the taking of laxatives more frequently than hitherto. This is most marked when the tumour grows round the bowel and forms an annular stricture. This tendency to constipation frequently alternates with attacks of diarrhoea, during which a considerable amount of mucus is present in the stools, and there may be a persistent inclination to pass flatus. It is not uncommon for the patient to develop internal piles at this early stage of the disease. It cannot be too strongly emphasised that when a patient past middle life exhibits these symptoms a digital examination of the rectum should be made, and if this does not reveal the presence of cancer, the proctoscope should be used. When the growth has ulcerated, but as a rule not till then, there is blood in the stools. The tendency to diarrhoea increases, the patient passing a small quantity of thin faeces together with much blood-stained muco-purulent matter, having a character- istically offensive odour. This is usually passed soon after the patient gets out of bed in the morning, and is a characteristic sign of rectal cancer. After this “morning diarrhoea” there may be a good motion, but1 the patient never feels that the bowel has been completely emptied, and usually has repeated calls to stool without being able to pass more than some blood- stained mucus. The attempt to empty the bowel is attended withCANCER, 599 straining which may induce the formation of piles, or of prolapse of the anus. The solid motions passed are sometimes altered in shape, but no importance is to be attached to this in diagnosis. Pain is a variable symptom, but is usually present, and in some cases is agonising. It is of a stabbing or burning character, and is worst while the bowels are moving. It may be referred to the bowel, to the sacrum, or to the distribution of the sciatic nerves, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for ordinary sciatica. When the bladder wall is invaded by the growth there may be pain and frequency of micturition, and if perfora- tion occurs and a recto-vesical fistula is established, faeces and flatus may pass by the urethra. On making a digital examination, if the growth is within reach of the finger, the irregular ulcerated surface, with firm, indurated edges, will be felt, or the finger may encounter a stricture. The degree of fixation of the rectum and its rela- tions to adjacent parts should be noted, special attention being directed to the prostate or vagina in front, and to the sacrum behind. The presence of infected glands in the hollow of the sacrum should be sought for. Sometimes the digital examina- tion yields more information if the patient is in the erect posture. In many cases, however, a satisfactory examination is only possible under general anaesthesia, and even when the growth is situated in the pelvic colon it can be palpated if pressure is made from above. The use of the proctoscope or the sigmoidoscope may yield useful information. Microscopic examination of a portion of the growth does not always furnish reliable evidence regarding its malignancy. When the cancer has caused stenosis of the bowel, symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction supervene, but the tumour seldom encroaches sufficiently on the lumen to cause complete obstruction. If the narrowed lumen becomes occluded by a mass of fseces, however, the signs of complete obstruction ensue, but are never so acute and urgent as in cases of obstruction in the colon. Perforation of the bowel above the stricture occasion- ally occurs, and gives rise to septic peritonitis. The duration of the disease varies with the nature of the growth, the age of the patient, and other circumstances, but it usually proves fatal in from six months to two years of its onset, although in some cases the disease is remarkably latent, and the patient may survive for several years. Treatment.—The radical operation is indicated in all cases in which the tumour is confined to the bowel or has formed but slight attachments to adjacent parts, and in which there is no evidence600 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. of metastatic growths. It is no longer held that excision is contra- indicated if the tumour is beyond the reach of the finger, and affects the wall of the bowel above the reflection of the peritoneum. The only absolute contra-indication is immobility of the tumour (Martin du Pan). jExcision of the Rectum—Rroctectomy.—The rectum may be excised from below by an incision in the perineum (Lisfranc, 1826); from behind by removing the coccyx and a portion of the sacrum (Kraske’s operation and its modifications); or by a combined abdominal and perineal operation. Opinions differ as to the value of a 'preliminary colostomy performed a week or ten days before the major operation. By some this measure is recommended on the grounds that it enables the bowels to be thoroughly emptied before the rectum is excised, and that it prevents the passage of faeces over the raw surface left by the operation. It is also urged, with good reason, that the opening of the abdomen enables the surgeon to determine the upper limits and attachments of the growth and the condition of the peritoneum and the pelvic and lumbar glands. Most surgeons, however, only perform colostomy if obstruction is actually present or is threatened. The perineal operation is selected when the growth is confined to the anal canal and the part of the rectum just beyond it. As the growth usually involves the anal orifice, it is seldom possible to conserve the sphincters. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is carried from the mid- point of the perineum to the tip of the coccyx, diverging on each side so as to include the anus. This incision divides the ano- coccygeal raphe, the rectal portion of the pelvic fascia, and opens into the loose cellular tissue that surrounds the lower part of the rectum. The levatores ani are then divided, and the finger introduced into the pelvi-rectal space. The rectum is separated from its surroundings by blunt dissection, care being taken not to injure the urethra or prostate. When the separation has been carried well beyond the growth the bowel is cut across, and its edges brought down and stitched to the anal margin of the wound. The levatores ani are then stitched round it with the object of obtaining some sphincteric action. The rest of the wound is packed with gauze and allowed to granulate. The bowels should not be encouraged to move for four or five days. Daily dressing of the wound is necessary to prevent septic com- plications and to promote healing, and the occasional passage of a bougie may be called for to prevent cicatricial contraction narrowing the bowel.601 EXCISION OF RECTUM. The sacral operation is employed when the disease is situated in the ampulla of the rectum, and in the majority of cases the anal canal is intact and the sphincters can be preserved. The patient is placed on his right side, or in the exaggerated lithotomy position, and an incision made from the middle of the sacrum to the anus. The coccyx is freely exposed, cleared on its anterior aspect to avoid injuring the middle sacral artery, and removed. The incision is then carried down to the fascia enclosing the rectum, and the bowel freed by blunt dissection above the sphincters surrounding the anal canal, until the finger can be passed round the lower part of the ampulla, which is then clamped between two pairs of forceps and cut across. The finger is then passed up between the hollow of the sacrum and the rectal fascia, and the bowel freed, the blood-vessels being secured as they are reached. When the peritoneal reflection is reached on the anterior aspect of the bowel it is opened, and this gives free access to the pelvic colon, the mesentery of which is divided and ligatured, so that it can be pulled well down. The gut is cut across an inch and a half above the tumour and removed. The lower end of the divided colon is then brought down and sutured to the upper end of the anal portion, thus re-establishing the continuity of the bowel and conserving the sphincters (Kocher). The combined abdominal and perineal operation is indicated when the disease extends to the pelvic colon. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, the sigmoid double-clamped and divided, and its mesentery and the affected segment of bowel freed from their attachments. The removal of the diseased portion is then carried out from the perineum, and the lower end of the colon brought out in the inguinal region as an artificial anus. In cases in which it is impossible to eradicate the disease, much relief may be afforded by colostomy (p. 468). This operation should be performed before there are symptoms of obstruction. It can then be done in two stages, an interval of several days being allowed to elapse between the withdrawal of the loop and the opening of it. When the patient refuses all operative interference, the palliative treatment consists in regulating the diet in such a way as to diminish the quantity of fecal matter. The bowel should be washed out frequently with mild antiseptic lotions, such as boracic acid. When pain is a prominent feature, opium must be given, either in the form of suppositories or by hypo- dermic injection.THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 602 Sarcoma is very rarely met with. When it occurs it originates in the submucous tissue, and is usually situated low down in the bowel near the anal orifice, and as it gives rise to the same clinical features as cancer, it is seldom diagnosed until the specimen is examined after removal. The sacral, lumbar, and inguinal glands are usually soon infected, and metastasis to the lung, pleura, or peritoneum is liable to occur early. Epithelioma of the Anus.—Squamous epithelioma occurs at the muco-cutaneous junction. It begins as a nodular thickening of the skin or mucous membrane, which later develops a series of raw, warty projections on the surface. There is a scanty discharge of thin ichorous fluid, which dries on the sore and forms a crust. The base of the sore is characteristically indurated. The growth increases slowly, and tends to spread on the cutaneous surface rather than towards the lumen of the bowel. It causes considerable pain, but there is not much bleeding. The treatment consists in excising the growth, and this usually entails sacrificing the sphincters. If the glands in the groin are enlarged, they also should be excised. Prolapse of the Rectum or Procidentia Recti.—The term “ prolapse ” is applied when any portion of the rectum is pro- truded beyond the anal margin. When the protrusion consists merely of the rectal mucous membrane, it is spoken of as a partial or incomplete prolapse; when all the coats of the bowel are protruded the prolapse is said to be complete (Fig. 161); the term “ procidentia recti ” is applied to the complete form. In the complete variety the peritoneum which forms the pouch of Douglas is sometimes dragged down in front of the prolapsed portion, and it is possible for a loop of intestine to enter the cul- de-sac thus formed. While this condition may be met with at any period of life, it is most common in young children, and in women between the ages of fifty and sixty. Causes.—In most cases several factors contribute to the pro- duction of the prolapse, the most important and constant of which are undue laxity of the perineal and rectal tissues, in- cluding the sphincters and levator ani muscles, and some cause of repeated and excessive straining. In young children, for example, after any exhausting illness the perineal muscles are liable to become weakened and relaxed, and the pads of fat which surround the rectum disappear, and thus the bowel is deprived of its natural support. If, under these conditions, the patient suffers from constipation, diarrhoea, rectal polypus, worms, phimosis, stone in the bladder, or anyPROLAPSE. 603 other condition that induces severe straining, prolapse of the bowel is very liable to develop. The violent muscular efforts caused by whooping-cough or bronchitis may also determine the protrusion of the bowel in a weakly child. The condition has also been attributed to the pernicious habit of allowing the child to sit at stool after the bowel has been emptied. In children the prolapse is, as a rule, of the partial or incomplete variety. In adults the cause of the condition is often obscure, but loss of fat and muscular weakness may predispose to the produc- tion of prolapse, which may be determined by such causes of straining as constipation, piles, rectal polypus, vesical calculus, or enlarged pros- tate. In adults the pro- lapse is usually of the complete variety. In women it is nearly always associated with prolapse of the vagina, bladder, and uterus, and is due to weak- ness of the pelvic floor. Clinical Features. — In the early stages the condition consists merely in an exaggeration of the normal protrusion of the anal mucous membrane that accompanies the final expulsive effort of the bowel in defecation. This gradually increases until the prolapse forms a conical projection, which varies in length from two to five or six inches. The mucous membrane of the protruded portion shows a series of circular or crescentic folds, and is at first of a pink or bright red colour, but, if it remains out for some time and is grasped by the sphincter, it assumes a bluish or purplish hue. At the apex of the cone is found the lumen of the bowel, while at its base the mucous membrane becomes continuous with the skin around the anal orifice. At first the protrusion can be readily returned inside the anus, but it tends to reappear if the patient coughs or strains, or, in some cases, even if she stands up. As the prolapseTHE RECTUM AND ANUS. 604 increases in size, its reduction becomes more and more difficult, owing to constriction of its base by the sphincter, and cedematous infiltration of the submucous tissue. Eventually it may remain down permanently, in which case there is a free discharge of mucus, and the mucous membrane becomes paler in colour, and altered so as to resemble skin. Superficial ulcers are liable to form on this extruded surface, and in some cases sloughing of a part, or of the whole, of the protrusion takes place. In the more severe cases the patient may suffer from pain and difficulty in micturition, and from shooting pains in the loins and legs. The only condition for which a prolapse is liable to be mis- taken is an intussusception that has passed beyond the anal orifice. The distinction is readily made by noting that in in- tussusception the finger can be passed into a cul-de-sac between the anal margin and the protrusion, and the mucous membrane covering the protrusion is not continuous with the skin around the anus. Treatment.—The reduction of a prolapse is best effected by raising the pelvis—a child may be held up by the heels— smearing the protrusion with vaseline, and applying gentle pressure over the apex of the cone. After the mass has slipped through the anus, a soft pad is placed between the nates and fixed securely in position by a T-shaped bandage, or the buttocks may be pressed together and held in this position by a strip of adhesive plaster passed from one trochanter to the other. The patient should remain recumbent for an hour or two after reduction. Constipation or any other existing cause of straining must be corrected, and means taken to ensure easy and regular movement of the bowels. The child should be made to defecate while lying on the back or on the side. Injections of ice-cold water, or of astringent lotions, such as tannic acid, alum, or sulphate of iron, are sometimes useful. In children it is seldom necessary to have recourse to operation. In adults, on the other hand, it is, as a rule, only by opera- tive measures that a cure can be effected. When the protrusion is small, excision of a wedge-shaped portion of the posterior part of the prolapse is sufficient. The wound is closed with catgut sutures. In more severe cases the best results are obtained by ampu- tating the protruded segment. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position to ensure that no portion of bowel is- in the peritoneal pouch that accompanies the prolapse. The protrusion is clamped, an incision made through the mucousPRURITIS ANI. 605 membrane and then through the rest of the gut. If the peritoneum is opened it is immediately shut off by means of sutures. The muscular and mucous coats are then united by continuous sutures. This method has the disadvantage of leav- ing at the anal margin a circular cicatrix, which is liable to tear if exposed to forcible stretching (Kocher); and it may be fol- lowed by recurrence of the protrusion (Ludloff). An alternative method consists in placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position and opening the abdomen in the middle line, pulling up the pelvic colon, and fixing it by means of sutures passed through its mesentery to the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, along Poupart’s ligament, or to the peritoneum of the iliac fossa—colopexy. If there is also prolapse of the vagina and uterus, these conditions must receive appropriate treatment. Pruritis Ani.—This term is applied to a condition in whicli there is intense and persistent itching in the anus and perianal portion of the perineum. Itchiness in the anal region is a symptom of many rectal affections, such as thread-worms, piles, ano-rectal ulceration, and fistula ; of eczema and other diseases of the skin; and of certain constitutional diseases, notably gout and diabetes; and as a rule it ceases with the cure of the primary condition. It is only when the itching becomes inces- sant and intolerable, and persists in spite of treatment, or when no cause can be discovered for it, that it is to be looked upon as a disease in itself. The condition begins with a feeling of uneasiness and a tendency to scratch the anus ; later the irritation increases, and the inclination to scratch becomes irresistible. For a time the itching is intermittent and is worst at night, preventing sleep; eventually it is incessant, so that the patient is unable to con- centrate his attention on his work, and from the want of rest and the continuous irritation he becomes dyspeptic, restless, and manifests extreme nervous irritability and depression ; sometimes the distress occasioned by pruritis is such as to render life almost unbearable. The skin around the anus is excoriated by scratching, becomes moist and sodden, loses its stratified epithelium, and is thrown into a series of thickened and cedematous folds which radiate from the anus in an arborescent fashion—an appearance that is characteristic of the affection. Treatment.—The first indication is to treat any local or con- stitutional condition present that might account for the itching. In some cases, however, the itching persists, it may be for years,606 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. after the cure of the apparent cause. On the assumption that there is some change in the sensory nerves of the affected area in sucli cases, Sir Charles Ball has devised an operation designed to divide the sensory terminations of these nerves. A curved incision is made on each side of the affected area enclosing the entire ellipse with the exception of a narrow neck in front and behind; these incisions are carried down to the sphincter muscle, and the flaps raised from the surface of the muscle, round its anal margin, and up the anal canal to above the muco- cutaneous junction. The pedicles in front and behind, and the outer margin of the incision, are now under-cut to a distance of at least a quarter of an inch free of the involved skin all round. After arresting the bleeding the flaps are replaced and secured in position with sutures. We can confirm Ball’s favourable opinion of this procedure. Incontinence of Faeces.—In voluntary discharge of the contents of the rectum may result from a variety of causes. It may, for example, be due to interference with the nerve mechanism of the sphincter muscles, as in injuries and other lesions involving the centre for the sphincters in the lumbar portion of the cord. On digital examination the anal orifice is found to be patulous and the sphincters lax. Even in these cases, however, the escape of faeces is not continuous, but takes place at intervals which vary with the activity of the intestinal peristalsis. In nervous children a degree of incontinence is occasionally met with, which appears to be due to feebleness of the sphincter—sometimes of the muscle itself, sometimes of its nerve mechanism. In the terminal stages of an exhausting illness, and in conditions of coma, the patient loses control of the bowels and incontinence results. In another group of cases the condition is due to direct damage to the sphincter muscles. For example, after operations for fistula-in-ano, when the sphincters have been divided, and especially if the external sphincter has been cut obliquely or in more than one place, incontinence is liable to ensue. So long as the internal sphincter remains intact, even if the external is incompetent, the incontinence may not be absolute, but the patient loses voluntary control of the anus, and the bowels move precipitately as soon as feces enter the ampulla of the rectum. Less frequently, operations for piles, prolapse, and polypi are followed by incontinence. Rupture of the perineum into the rectum during labour is a comparatively common cause of incontinence. The treatment varies with the cause. When the condition is607 INCONTINENCE OF F7ECES. due to interruption of the fibres of the sphincter, it may be cured by restoring the muscle by a plastic operation. We have obtained satisfactory results by the procedure suggested by Chetwood, which consists in forming a new sphincter from strips of muscular tissue taken from the lower margins of the gluteus maximus muscles, and fixed so as to surround the anal orifice. The incontinence of children has been successfully treated by sup- positories containing ergot and by local injections of strychnin.608 CHAPTER XXXII. THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Surgical anatomy—Terms denoting alterations in urine—Palpation and percussion of kidney — Cystoscope —• Catheterisation of ureters — Kryoscopy. Operations on kidney and ureter—Congenital anomalies : Horse-shoe kidney; Absence and displacement of kidney; Abnor- malities of ureter—Acquired displacements : Movable or wandering kidney—Contusion and rupture of kidney—Open wounds—Injuries of ureter—Hydronephrosis—Infective conditions: Pyelitis; Pyelo- nephritis ; Pyonephrosis—Stone in the kidney and ureter—Calculous anuria — Tuberculosis — Perinephritis and perinephric abscess — Tumours and cysts of kidney and pelvis—Haemorrhage from the kidney—Operative treatment of nephritis—Animal parasites in the urinary tract. Surgical Anatomy. —The kidneys are situated in the loins, lying behind the peritoneum in a mass of extra-peritoneal fat. They are applied against the posterior abdominal muscles close to their attachment to the last dorsal and upper three lumbar vertebrae, the psoas muscle interven- ing between the kidney and the transverse processes of the vertebrae (Fig. 163). The left kidney usually reaches slightly higher than the right, its upper border being on the level of the upper margin of the seventh costal cartilage, while that of the right kidney only reaches to the lower margin of the same cartilage. As viewed from the front, the greater part of each kidney lies' to the inner side of a line drawn vertically upwards from the centre of Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 162). The kidneys are placed obliquely, so that one surface looks forwards and outwards, while the other looks backwards and inwards. The layer of extra-peritoneal fat which immediately invests the kidney is termed the adipose capsule ; the fibrous or true capsule is in immediate contact with the kidney. The perirenal fascia is a thin fibrous layer which surrounds the fatty capsule forming its outermost layer, and which is united to the true capsule by fibrous bands traversing the fat. The perirenal fascia is incomplete below, and its anterior layer (prerenal fascia) is intimately blended with the parietal peritoneum. The pleural reflection passes from within outwards obliquely across the upper end of each kidney, and crosses the long axis of the twelfth and eleventh ribs. The right kidney is related in front to the supra-renal capsule, the liver, the descending part of the duodenum, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. The left kidney is related in front to the supra-609 SURGICAL ANATOMY. renal capsule, tlie stomach, pancreas, and spleen, and to the splenic flexure of the colon and the upper coils of small intestine. The ureter lies on the psoas muscle, and is closely adherent to the parietal peritoneum overlying it. It descends almost vertically about an inch and a half from the mesial plane, and dips into the pelvis in front of the termination of the common iliac artery, two fingers’ breadths above a point where a line between the anterior superior iliac spines cuts a vertical line from the spine of the pubes. The renal blood-vessels enter at the liilum, the vein lying in front of the artery. The ureter lies Fig. 162.—Outline Diagram of Kidneys as viewed from tlie front. (After Stiles, Cunningham’s Text-Bool.) behind the vessels. The lymphatics pass from the lulum to the retro- peritoneal lumbar glands. The blood-vessels are distributed in the kidney substance in two main groups, an anterior and a posterior, and it has been shown that the cortex may be cut through to gain access to the pelvis with the minimum loss of blood if the incision is made slightly to the dorsal side of the convex border of the organ. The ureter is so well supplied with blood- vessels running in its wall that it may be lifted from its bed to a con- siderable extent without impairing its vitality. The Urine.—Various terms are employed in relation to the amount and character of the renal secretion : thus polyuria indicates an increase in the amount of urine, oliguria a diminution, and anuria a complete suppression or arrest of secretion. Hcematuria implies an admixture of VOL. II—39THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 610 the urine with blood, pyuria an admixture with pus. The term bacteri- uria is employed when the urine contains micro - organisms, and albuminuria when albumin is present. Methods of Examination.—Palpation.—The kidneys can only be palpated through the abdominal wall if enlarged or unduly movable. The patient rests on his back, with the head and shoulders raised and the thighs acutely flexed to relax as far as possible the abdominal muscles. One hand of the observer is placed in the loin below the ribs, and the other on the anterior abdominal wall, and while the region of the kidney is being palpated the patient is asked to take deep breaths. Fig. 163.—Outline Diagram of Kidneys as seen from behind. (After Stiles, Cunningham’s Text-Boot.) The same procedure is repeated in the lateral position. If the kidney is enlarged it is felt to project beyond the costal margin, and if it is movable it slips up and down with respiration and tends to fall towards the middle line when the patient lies on the opposite side. Anaesthesia is a valuable aid to palpation, especially when the muscles cannot be voluntarily relaxed. Percussion may be useful in differentiating tumours of the kidney from those of the liver, intestine, or spleen, and in determining the position of the colon in relation to a supposed renal tumour. On the right side the ascending colon lies along the inner side of a renal tumour ; on the'left, the descending colon crosses in front of it. Examination of the Bladder with the Cystoscope.—The cystoscopeMETHODS OF EXAMINATION. Gil resembles a sound in shape ; the beak, which is about an inch long, joins the shaft at an ojien angle and contains near its tip an incandescent lamp by which the interior of the bladder is illuminated, the wires passing hack inside the shaft to be connected with a battery or accumulator. The shaft contains also a system of lenses or telescope, which magnifies the object examined. At the junction of the shaft with the beak is a window closed by a prism, which refracts the rays of light reflected from the object illuminated through the system of lenses and thus into line with the observer’s eye. To bring the object into focus the beak is approached to or withdrawn from it. The image is an inverted one. In the “irrigating cystoscope ” there is a channel in the shaft through which fluid may be withdrawn from or injected into the bladder without withdrawing the instrument. In using the cystoscope a general anaesthetic is not necessary ; the urethra may be rendered insensitive by injecting into it two or three drachms of a 1 per cent, solution of eucain, to which 1 in 5000 adrena- lin may be added with advantage. After an interval of ten minutes the patient is placed in the lithotomy position ; the bladder is washed out with boracic lotion until the solution returns clear, and from six to ten ounces are left in the bladder. If the urine is quite clear and there is a sufficient amount of it in the bladder, the washing out may be dispensed with. The cystoscope is then introduced, and when in the bladder, the circuit that turns on the light is completed. Having made a general survey of the mucous membrane—which is normally of a pinkish-white colour with ramifying blood-vessels running in it—attention is directed to the base of the bladder, and especially to the openings of the ureters. If the kidneys are functionating, a wave-like movement is visible in the fluid each time the ureteral orifice opens. If there is pus coming from the kidney, minute particles are seen floating in the wave of fluid, like dust in a sunbeam. If there is bleeding from the kidney or ureter, a whorl of bloody urine is seen escaping from the orifice, or a blood-clot may project from it. If one ureteral orifice is retracted or depressed, it implies contraction of a thickened ureter such as is often present in association with tuberculous disease of the kidney. The condition of the mucous membrane of the bladder around the ureteral orifice should be carefully inspected ; in unilateral disease it may show engorgement of the blood-vessels, a granular condition, or minute superficial ulcers. The instrument should remain half a minute in the bladder after the current has been shut off, to allow the beak to cool before it is withdrawn. Separation of the Secretion from each Kidney—“ One-Kidney Urine." —Various instruments, known as separators or segrcgators, have been devised with the object of obtaining the secretion from each kidney. They are provided with a partition, which, after the instrument has been introduced into the bladder, is projected in such a way that it forms an antero-posterior septum between the ureteral openings, the urine that escapes on either side of the septum being conveyed by a separate canal in the shaft of the instrument into a receptacle. The Separator of Luys.—The separator of Luys is the best known and the most generally applicable (Fig. 164). The instrument is sterilised by boiling for five minutes in plain water. The patient is laid horizontal, the urine is drawn off with a soft rubber catheter, and the bladder washed out with boracic lotion till it returns clear, and about six to eight ounces are left in the bladder. The separator is lubricated and introduced.612 THE KIDNEY AND URETER In the case of women there is little pain or difficulty. In the male, the beak should enter the membraneous urethra before the handle is depressed, and care must be taken that the instrument is completely within the bladder. If there is difficulty, it is useful to place a finger in the rectum or vagina. As a rule the instrument glides easily enough into the bladder, and the contained fluid escapes by the catheters. The patient is then raised into a sitting posture on the edge of the table, with the thighs separated and the feet and back supported. The diaphragm is now raised by rotating the screw to its full extent ; the central partition thus produced accurately divides the bladder in the mesial plane, and the secretion from each ureter flows into its separate half of the bladder and escapes by its respective catheter into receptacles provided for it. The patient should drink freely of water before and during the examination so as to increase the urinary secretion. "When the amount of urine necessary for examination has been obtained, the diaphragm is lowered by reversing the screw, and the instrument is withdrawn. The Use of Colouring Matters as an Aid to the Investigation of the Functional Conditions of the Kidney.—That most generally employed is a 4 per cent, solution of indigo carmine, of which 4 c.c. are injected deeply into the buttock. If the kidneys are healthy, the colour appears in the urine in about ten minutes, attains its maximum in thirty minutes, and gradually disappears in two or three hours. If one kidney is diseased, the urine on that side is either not coloured at all or only very faintly. This test, combined with the use of the cystoscope or the separator, is of great service in estimating the functional activity of the two kidneys. With the cystoscope, the ureteral openings are more easily identified by the jet of coloured urine escaping from each, and differences in the mode in which the ureter contracts and in the jet of urine may be observed. Catheterisation of the ureters requires more skill and practice on the part of the observer than the preceding methods of examination. The ureteral catheters, which are made of silk, are sterilised by boiling in a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate, and are preserved dry in sterilised glass cylinders. Before use they are dipped in sterile glycerine. A pre-METHODS OF EXAMINATION. 613 liminary examination with the simple cystoscope enables the operator to determine whether the ureteral openings will lend themselves to catheterisation, or whether this is impossible, as, for example, on account of marked swelling of the mucous membrane, extensive ulceration, or pronounced fasciculation of the bladder. If feasible, the cystoscope, armed with a ureteral catheter, is introduced, the bladder having been again washed out and filled with boracic solution. The ureteral opening —say, on the left side—having been brought into view at the lower part of the field, in order to introduce the catheter, the outer end of the cystoscope must be pushed to the opposite side and elevated. The head of the observer will then be close to the right thigh of the patient. Along with the cystoscope,-the catheter is slowly pushed onward unt:l its point enters the ureteral orifice, without touching the vesical mucous membrane. The catheter is pushed in for a distance of about three- quarters of an inch, the stylet withdrawn, and the urine collected. The urine obtained from each kidney is examined chemically, microscopic- ally, and bacteriologically. In the female, the bladder may be inspected and the ureters may be catheterised directly by Kelly’s method. The patient is placed in the genu-pectoral or in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis elevated. The urethra is dilated until the speculum with its obturator can be introduced. When the obturator is withdrawn the bladder fills with air, and is illuminated by means of a frontal mirror reflecting sun or electric light. Each ureteral orifice is searched for and tested with a probe before the catheter is introduced. To estimate the extent of destruction of the kidney substance in cases of stone and hydronephrosis, Kelly devised a plan of measuring the capacity of the renal pelvis. A catheter is passed up the ureter and the urine allowed to flow for a few minutes, and then, by means of a graduated syringe, boric lotion is gently injected until the patient feels pain in the kidney. Under normal conditions this occurs when from 2 to 5 c.c. have been injected. Testing the adequacy of the excretory functions of the kidney by means of kryoscopy, or the estimation of the freezing-point of the blood, is a procedure introduced by Koranje, and especially advocated by Kiimmell. The estimation of the freezing-point of the blood is attended with technical difficulties, and it is maintained by Rovsing, Israel, Kock, and others that the inferences drawn from such estimation are apt to prove misleading ; it has therefore been to a large extent abandoned. The adequacy of the renal functions has also been tested by estimating the electrical resistance of the blood and urine respectively—the tuemo- renal index (Dawson Turner). Pain in affections of the kidney is referred chiefly to the angle between the last rib and the erector spin®, a point which corresponds with the lower pole of the organ ; pain may also be felt in front over the lower pole. The pain of renal colic starts at one or other of these points and shoots down towards the external abdominal ring, and sometimes along the cord to the testicle, or into the thigh. Pain above and a little internal to the external abdominal ring is present in affections of the lowest part of the abdominal portion of the ureter. Operations on the Kidney and Ureter.—The following terms are used in describing these :—Nephrotomy implies exposure and incision of the kidney ; pyelotomy, incision of the renal pelvis. If the incised kidney is kept open by packing or tubes for purposes of drainage, the procedure is called a nephrostomy. Ureterotomy implies the exposure and incision614 THE KIDNEY AND URETER, of the ureter. The exposure and fixation of a movable kidney is known as nephropexy or nephrorraphy. Resection of the kidney refers to the removal of a portion of the organ for localised disease or injury ; nephrectomy implies the removal of the entire organ. Nephro-litliotomy refers to the incision of the kidney for the removal of stone. Ureter- ectomy refers to the removal of part or the whole length of the ureter. These various operations may be performed with the patient lying on his side, a roller pillow being placed in the interval between the ribs and the iliac crest to open up this interval on the side that is uppermost ; or with the patient lying on his face, in which case a large air cushion, such as that introduced by Edebohls, is placed beneath the belly. The normal lumbar incision employed for the exposure of the kidney and upper part of the ureter begins at the angle between the last rib and the outer border of the erector spin®, and runs downwards and forwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine. This incision divides the strong lumbar fascia and the muscles arising from it, the latissimus dorsi, and the serratus posticus inferior ; in front, the posterior border of the external oblique and internal oblique are also divided. The transversalis fascia and loose perirenal fat are then opened up, and the kidney is exposed and may be brought out at the wound. Congenital Anomalies of the Kidney.—Persistence of the foetal lobulation of the kidney is occasionally met with, but is of little importance. The two kidneys may be nearer the middle line than normal and their lower ends be fused — horse-shoe kidney—the bridge of tissue joining them lying in front of the third lumbar vertebra, and being crossed by the ureters. One half may become the seat of disease, for example hydronephrosis, while the other half remains healthy. It is rarely possible to diagnose a horse-shoe kidney clinically, as the organ cannot be palpated. Sometimes one kidney is imperfectly developed, the organ being represented by a nodule of renal tissue not larger than a bean or a walnut. The renal vessels are present, and the ureter, although narrow, may be patent and admit a probe or catheter, at least at its lower end. Congenital absence of one kidney also occurs, and is sometimes associated with defective development or imperfect descent of the testis on the same side. On cystoscopic examination of the bladder only one ureteral orifice is seen, as the ureter also is absent. The possibility of these abnormalities should be borne in mind when considering the question of nephrectomy, although when one kidney is absent or imperfectly developed the other is usually considerably enlarged. Congenital Displacement or Dystopia.—The kidney may lie nearer the middle line than normal, or it may be displacedCONGENITAL ANOMALIES. 615 downwards so that it lies on a level with the sacral promontory, or even in the cavity of the pelvis. Anatomically this congenital displacement is differentiated from the acquired variety—the wandering kidney—by the low origin of the renal vessels, which may spring from the common or internal iliac arteries. Clinically the condition may pass unobserved, unless the displaced kidney becomes the seat of disease, for example, hydronephrosis or calculous pyonephrosis. Under these circumstances it may be difficult to diagnose the condition from tumours of the bowel, of the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, or of the retro peritoneal tissue. Congenital Anomalies of the Ureter.—Abnormal origin of the ureter from the pelvis of the kidney, with the formation of a valve at the orifice, is an important cause of hydronephrosis. Double ureter is met with in a variety of forms. There may be two complete ureters draining the one kidney and opening separately into the bladder, or the ureter may only be double at its upper end. When hydronephrotic or pyonepliritic processes occur, they may be confined to one segment of the affected kidney. This may result, for example, from abnormal termina- tion of the supernumerary tube, the lower end of which may be so narrow, or may pass so obliquely through the wall of the bladder, that the outflow through it is interfered with and there results a hydronephrosis of the portion of kidney drained by it. In other cases the intramural portion of the ureter becomes distended into a cyst, which may interfere with the emptying of the bladder by projecting like a tumour into its interior, or may even compress the normal ureter of the opposite side. In some cases the supernumerary tube does not open into the bladder at all. In the male, it may open into the prostatic urethra or seminal vesicle, but as the opening is controlled by the sphincter muscles, it does not cause any abnormality in micturition, and the condition is practically never diagnosed during life. In the female, the supernumerary tube may open into the urethra, vagina, or vestibule, and cause a con- tinuous dribbling of urine, which is beyond the control of the patient. The history is that from childhood there has been a minor degree of incontinence or dribbling, although the patient is able to pass urine in a normal stream when she wishes to do so, a state of affairs which is pathognomonic. If operative treatment is called for, the abdomen should be opened, the supernumerary ureter cut across and inserted by a fresh opening into the bladder. Abnormal Mobility and Acquired Displacements of theTHE KIDNEY AND URETER. 616 Kidney—Nephroptosis.—A kidney which moves abnormally freely behind the peritoneum is said to be movable; one which moves forwards, or floats, towards the anterior abdominal wall is spoken of as a xvandering or floating kidney. In the second variety the peritoneum and the layer of perinephric fascia in front of the kidney are loosened and the renal vessels elongated, but the suprarenal capsule does not accompany the kidney in its wanderings. The presence of a meso-nephron is rare. The most important factor in the causation of abnormal renal mobility is an inherited and congenital peculiarity in the anatomical relations of the kidney. This is evidenced by the frequency of the condition in certain families, its association with congenital anomalies in the shape of the kidney and in the origin of the renal vessels, and the faulty formation of the niche or pocket in which the kidney lies. It is such congenitally dis- posed kidneys that become prolapsed and abnormally mobile from such determining or exciting causes as : (1) diminution in the intra-abdominal pressure from loss of tone in the abdominal muscles, emaciation with loss of the perirenal fat, repeated preg- nancies, or the removal of large abdominal tumours ; (2) altera- tions in the shape of the thorax produced by tight lacing; and (3) the disturbance of parts by falls on the feet or buttocks, violent gymnastics, and the nursing of heavy patients. When normally formed persons are subjected to similar influences they do not tend to develop abnormal renal mobility. In the majority of cases no such determining factors can be discovered. Secondary Changes in the Displaced Kidney.—As it descends, in virtue of its pedicle the kidney as a whole swings towards the middle line, and at the same time it rotates so that the upper pole moves forwards. The latter movement causes traction on the pedicle, and tends to bring about torsion or kinking of the renal vessels and of the ureter. Being fixed by the peritoneum, the ureter does not readily follow the kidney in its descent, and any alteration in its direction may interfere with the outflow of urine from the pelvis and induce hydronephrosis. As a result of inflammatory attacks, the organ may become fixed by ad- hesions in its abnormal position. The normal congestion of the kidney that accompanies menstruation is usually exaggerated. Effect of Displacement of the Kidney on the Ascending Colon.— It has been shown by Algave that downward displacement of the kidney may drag down the hepatic flexure of the colon and cause distortion or kinking of the ascending colon; this entails fecal accumulation in the caecum and obstinate constipation which may lead to colitis.617 ABNORMAL MOBILITY. Clinical Features.—The condition is chiefly met with in ■women between the ages of twenty and forty, and is about twelve times more frequent on the right than on the left side. In some cases the mobility is bilateral. The clinical features are subject to wide variations, and are not proportionate to the degree of abnormal mobility. In many cases the patient only suffers from symptoms referable to floating kidney when she is out of health from any cause—anxiety, illnesses such as influenza, late hours, dissipation, or dancing; in such cases the digestion is upset, the urine small in amount and loaded with urates, the breath foul, and the patient is languid and disinclined for exertion. In other cases there are no symptoms, and the condition is discovered accidentally in the course of an examination of the abdomen. Sometimes the chief complaint is of vague abdominal pains, accompanied by symptoms of neurasthenia, and in some the patient only com- plains of symptoms after having been told that she is the subject of floating kidney. It is only in a minority of cases that there are symptoms directly referable to the renal displacement. These consist in pain and dragging sensations in the loin and on one side of the abdomen. The pain may shoot down the thigh, it is aggravated by standing, walking, and exertion, and is usually, but not always, relieved by lying down. If there is torsion of the renal pedicle with kinking or twisting of the upper end of the ureter, the renal pelvis becomes distended and there are painful crises like renal colic, which last for several hours and are attended with shivering, vomiting, and pain down the line of the ureter. During these attacks the kidney is tender and sometimes enlarged, and the amount of urine is diminished; after the attack the quantity of urine passed exceeds the normal. Physical Examination.—If the kidney is out of place at the time of examination, a tumour corresponding in size and shape to the kidney is felt in the abdomen, and is easily replaced in the renal recess. We have observed the right kidney engaged in the brim of the pelvis and easily felt from the rectum. If the kidney is not displaced at the time of examination, it can usually be brought down by the patient taking a series of deep respira- tions, while the abdominal muscles are relaxed by flexing the trunk and the hips, or by the patient standing up. Three degrees of mobility may be recognised : a first in which the lower pole of the kidney can be grasped between the fingers towards the end of a deep inspiration; a second in which the greater part or the whole of the organ can be grasped, but ascends again during expiration; and a third in which the whole618 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. kidney descends belowthe examining fingers and can be retained in this position during and after expiration, or can be moved about in the abdominal cavity. If the examination is negative in the dorsal position, it should be repeated with the patient resting on the healthy side, or in the knee-elbow attitude. It may be possible to recognise the mobility on some occasions and not on others; hence the necessity of more than one examination if the first is negative. Floating kidney constitutes an abdominal tumour with a wide range of mobility ; the differentiation from other abdominal tumours is usually easy, but difficulty may arise in relation to a distended gall-bladder, a partially separated “ constriction lobe ” of the liver, an ovarian cyst or uterine fibroid with a long pedicle, a tumour of the colon or of the pylorus. Chief stress is to be laid on the fact that it is impossible to cause any other tumour than a floating kidney to disappear completely by pushing it into the renal pouch. Before commencing the treatment in any case of abnormal renal mobility, the patient should be further examined with the object of determining whether the symptoms complained of are due to the mobility alone or to some other condition, for example, organic disease of the kidney, uterine displacement, disease of the uterine appendages, dilatation of the stomach, or enteroptosis. In cases attended with symptoms of neurasthenia and of gastro- intestinal disturbance, it is often difficult to estimate how far the renal mobility is responsible for these. Treatment.—In the great majority of cases the condition can be relieved or cured by non-operative measures. Any affection of the stomach, bowels, or generative organs must first be remedied. The patient should be advised to avoid standing as much as possible, and to lie up at the menstrual periods. When the nervous symptoms are prominent, such measures as massage, baths, and electricity should be employed to tone up the nervous system, and it may be necessary to have recourse to the Weir- Mitchell treatment. In cases of renal mobility attended with symptoms of torsion of the pedicle, the patient is confined to bed during the crisis, the foot of the bed is elevated, and hot fomentations are applied to the loin. In applying a belt or bandage, the object is to retain the viscera which tend to prolapse by raising equably the intra- abdominal pressure, and to give support to the muscles that have lost their tone. The best appliance is a corset made of elastic webbing and strengthened at the sides and in front by lightINJURIES. 619 steel springs (Israel). The support to the kidney may be further increased by an air cushion fastened within the corset; the cushion is diamond-shaped, the two sides above corresponding to the costal margin and the two below to the iliac crest and Poupart’s ligament. The corset should be applied when the patient is in the dorsal position with the pelvis elevated. When such a corset is not obtainable, the abdomen may be supported by a large diamond-shaped pad of wool and a wide domette roller bandage, the pad and bandage being applied over a thin jersey, to which both are secured by safety-pins. Fixation of the kidney by operation—nephropexy—is especially recommended when there are recurrent attacks of colic likely to be followed by hydronephrosis. In cases complicated with neurasthenia the operation is not only uncertain to cure the patient, but may prove a disappointment and do harm. The operation consists in exposing the kidney and drawing the parts together by suture so as to make a shelf upon which the lower pole will rest. The incision is made from the tip of the twelfth rib downwards and inwards in the line of the fibres of the external oblique. The three layers of muscle are separated by the “ gridiron ” method ; the peritoneum and the ascending colon are displaced inwards and the perirenal space entered. The layer of prerenal fascia, which comes down in front of the kidney, should be stitched to the layer coming down from behind — the retro-renal fascia. The fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum just outside the line of the colon should also be tacked down by sutures to the lumbar fascia. Following the example of W. J. Mayo and M. L. Harris, we have practised this operation with satisfactory results, and prefer it to the method usually employed, which consists in passing stitches through the capsule of the kidney or through the substance of the decapsulated organ and carrying these round the last rib and through the lumbar muscles. Injuries. — Contusion and Rupture.—These injuries are met with most frequently in men. In the adult female the kidney is protected by the greater projection of the iliac crest, the greater amount of perirenal fat, and also by the corset. A blow or crush may act directly upon the kidney, or drive it against the lower ribs or the transverse processes of the first and second lumbar vertebrae. When a person falls from a height, the kidney is injured by the sudden concussion of the body or by its abrupt flexion. In severe accidents other viscera, such as the liver or spleen, are ruptured at the same time. Morbid Anatomy.—In contusions the capsule and pelvis ofTHE KIDNEY AND URETER. 620 the organ remain intact, and blood is extravasated into the peri- renal fat (Fig. 165), or into the parenchyma, whence it passes down the urinary tubules into the pelvis. When the organ is ruptured there are one or more deep fissures passing through the capsule and parenchyma, and often extending into the pelvis; the organ may be completely torn across; there is severe haemorrhage, the blood infiltrates the perirenal fat, and may spread widely in the loose cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. If the ureter remains patent, the blood passes down into the bladder, which may become distended with clots. In children, perirenal fat being ab- sent, the peritoneum is liable to be torn, and the blood is then poured into the peritoneal cavity. If the rupture involves the pelvis, urine escapes into the surrounding tissues and follows the track of the extravasated blood. Rupture of the renal artery or of one of its main branches, and avulsion of the ureter, are occasionally met with. The risk from haemorrhage is fol- lowed by that from septic infection, as pyogenic organisms derived from the blood or from the adjacent colon readily flourish in devitalised por- tions of the kidney and in the extravasated blood, especially when it is mixed with stagnant urine. Fm.165. — Contusion of Kidney jn the absence of septic infection, blood into the perirenal fat. ruptures of the kidney heal rapidly and well. Clinical Features.—Immediately after the injury, the local symptoms are masked by profound shock. Shock is succeeded by nausea, vomiting, and pain in the region of the kidney and radiating down to the thigh and into the testicle. After subsiding for a time, the pain may return in the form of renal colic, due to the passage of clots down the ureter. There is marked tenderness in the region of the kidney, the abdominal muscles on the same side are rigidly contracted, and the bowels may become distended with gas, even although the peritoneum is uninjured. Bruising of the overlying soft parts is exceptional. Hsematuria is one of the most important signs of injury to the kidney, being absent only in cases in which the ureter is blockedINJURIES. 621 by a clot, or has been torn from the kidney. If the bladder contains urine, the blood mixes with it, and the patient soon experiences a desire to micturate, and what is passed is seen to be tinged with blood or to resemble pure blood. If the bladder is empty, the blood accumulates and coagulates in its interior, so that when the patient desires to urinate he is unable to pass anything, or passes only a few clots, in spite of severe and painful straining. In severe injuries the haemorrhage may be very profuse; it aggravates the shock and causes increasing blood- lessness which may terminate fatally. In cases which recover, the haematuria lasts for from two to five days. Later or recur- rent hsematuria is due to the breaking down of clots in the kidney either as a result of admixture of urine or of septic changes. Swelling in the loin, due to perirenal extravasation of blood or.of blood and urine, is present in most cases in which the kidney is actually ruptured; it is diffused over the loin, is hard, fixed, and very sensitive. If the capsule remains intact, it may become distended with blood, causing an increase in the size of the kidney, and forming a circumscribed, rounded, and mobile swelling which may be palpated and moved on bimanual exami- nation. If the peritoneum is torn, the blood and urine pour into the peritoneal cavity, giving rise to increasing dulness in the dependent parts of the belly, and death usually results from shock or from septic peritonitis. Uraemia from diminution or suppression of the urinary secre- tion is a rare complication and is due to direct interference with the injured kidney. After the first forty-eight hours, septic changes may occur affecting the kidney itself, or more frequently the blood and urine extravasated into the perirenal tissues. These changes are attended with rigors and irregular fever, sweating, increased size and greater tenderness of the swelling; the urine is diminished in amount and usually contains pus. When septic infection occurs early, the perirenal suppuration assumes the character of a diffuse suppurative cellulitis ; when it occurs later, suppuration is encysted by the reaction of the surrounding tissues, constitut- ing a localised abscess. When the bladder is full of blood-clots undergoing decomposition, septic infection is liable to spread up from the bladder to the opposite kidney. Treatment.—In cases seen soon after the injury, attention is directed to the relief of urgent symptoms—pain, shock, and haemorrhage. In slight cases the patient is merely confined to bed, and a large mass of wool is retained over the loin by aTHE KIDNEY AND URETER. 622 firm flannel bandage, the diet is restricted to fluids, and urotropin is given to diminish the tendency to septic changes. In severe cases operative interference is indicated if there is evidence of increasing loss of blood, whether external or internal, rapid increase of the swelling in the loin, or marked diminution in the amount of urine passed. The kidney region must be freely opened up by the usual lumbar incision. If the organ is deeply ruptured but still viable, the rupture is closed with deep catgut sutures, or packed with gauze. If the kidney is extensively lacerated, if the main vessels are ruptured, or if the ureter is torn away from the kidney, the entire organ is removed—primary nephrectomy. If the bladder is distended with clots and micturition seriously interfered with, it should be emptied by means of the litholapaxy evacuator, and, if this fails, it should be opened from the perineum and a large drainage tube introduced, otherwise septic cystitis and ascending infection of both kidneys may supervene. If the severity of the shock and symptoms of internal haemorrhage point to tearing of the peritoneum over the kidney, the abdomen must be opened from the front, the blood and urine removed, and the kidney dealt with as the injury demands. . At a later stage, septic changes may call for operative inter- ference • the swelling is freely incised from the loin and drained ; whether or not the kidney is removed—secondary nephrectomy —will depend, not only on the condition of the affected kidney, but also on that of the opposite side. Open wounds of the kidney are usually the result of stabs or gunshot injuries. The situation and direction of the external wound may suggest that the kidney has been injured, and the suspicion is confirmed if blood appears in the urine; urine does not usually escape from the wound unless the pelvis of the kidney is involved. These injuries may also implicate the pleura, diaphragm, liver, or intestine. In uncomplicated cases the wound, if aseptic, heals well; if septic, suppuration is liable to ensue in and around the kidney. The external wound should be disinfected and drained, and complications dealt with as they arise. Subcutaneous Rupture of the Ureter is a rare injury, and usually results from the patient being overridden or crushed. If the ureter is displaced so as to be driven against the transverse processes of the vertebrae, it may be partially or completely torn. The peritoneum over the ureter usually remains intact, and unless the rent in the ureter is blocked by a clot, a mixture of urine and blood accumulates in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, and623 HYDRONEPHROSIS. forms within a few days or weeks of the injury a rounded or sausage-shaped swelling, which is tender on pressure, in the line of the ureter. If the ureter becomes the seat of stricture, the kidney undergoes enlargement and constitutes a traumatic hydronephrosis. Septic infection is liable to occur and may spread to the kidney. Treatment.—If, by means of the ureteral catheter, the diagnosis can be made with certainty, the operation of primary suture of the ruptured ureter is indicated. In most cases treatment is confined to incision and drainage of the extravasated urine. Injuries of the Ureter.—In the course of pelvic operations, such as removal of the uterus, the ureter is liable to be included in a ligature, divided or crushed so that it subsequently sloughs. If the injury is recognised at the time of its infliction, it must be dealt with at once. If completely divided it may be sutured, or if this be impracticable, the proximal end should, if possible, be inserted into the bladder through a fresh opening. Hydronephrosis. {Synonyms: Uro-nephrosis, Nephrectasis, Renal Retention.) Pathogenesis and Morbid Anatomy.—If the escape of urine from the kidney is suddenly and completely arrested, as by ligation of the ureter, the organ soon ceases to secrete, and finally undergoes atrophy; but if the outflow is merely hindered over a long period, the secretion continues, and the pressure of the urine gradually distends the pelvis into a cyst. The cause of the obstruction to the outflow may be situated in any part of the urinary tract, and in each individual case of hydronephrosis, it is important to locate it in order that it may, if possible, be removed. Causes in the Kidney itself.—Apart from such conditions as a calculus or a villous tumour blocking the outlet of the renal pelvis, the commonest cause is an alteration in the position of the kidney, whether congenital or acquired, whereby the outflow from the pelvis is interfered with. Descent of the kidney usually results in a curving of the upper end of the ureter, the convexity of the curve being upwards, or, in extreme cases, it may be kinked and form an inverted V- If the hindrance to the outflow is temporary, as it is in a floating kidney which returns to its place, the pelvis readily regains its former size —intermittent hydronephrosis; but with repeated recurrence of the obstruction, secondary changes occur in the pelvis and ureter which tend to perpetuate the stagnation of urine—permanent624 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. hydronephrosis. These changes at first consist in loss of elasti- city in the wall of the pelvis and unequal dilatation of its cavity, the segment below the ureteral opening distending more than that above, and the orifice of the ureter no longer being at the most dependent part of the pelvis (Fig. 166). Further, as a result of the rotation of the kidney that accompanies its descent, the pelvis moves forward and the ureter comes to lie along the posterior wall of the sac, and congestive changes occur, which result in the formation of adhesions between the pelvis and ureter, fixing the quantities of diuretic beverages. When all outflow from the pelvis is arrested, this is described as the conversion of an “open” that even in a closed hydronephrosis the lumen of the ureter is not necessarily obliterated; a ureteral catheter may be passed from the bladder upwards into the pelvis. Obstacles in the course of the ureter are less common causes of hydronephrosis; they include such conditions as congenital anomalies in the course of the ureter, impacted calculus, villous growth, stricture, injuries to the ureter in gynecological opera- tions, compression of the ureter by pelvic tumours, or traction upon and kinking of the ureter by cicatricial tissue formed around the uterus. latter in its bent position, and embedding it in the posterior wall of the dilated pelvis. The ureteral opening becomes more and more oblique and slit-like, while the layers of tissue intervening between the cavity of the pelvis and the lumen of the ureter become fused and thinned out until they form a spur or valve which may entirely close the ureteral opening (Fig. 167). Recurrent attacks of in- termittent hydronephrosis may occur, for example, from swelling of the mucous U membrane of the pelvis, such as may attend the conges- tion of menstruation, sexual after the ingestion of large into a “ closed hydronephrosis.” It must be clearly understoodHYDRONEPHROSIS. 625 Obstacles to the outflow from, the wreter into the blcCdder may affect one or both kidneys ; the most common causes are tumours of the bladder, calculus, enlargement of the prostate, paralysis of the bladder, and stricture of the urethra. All of these cause increased backward pressure which may result in hydronephrosis, and in the majority of cases septic infection is superadded, resulting in pyonephrosis. Functional Disturbances of Micturition.—It was pointed out by Dr. Alexander James,.in 1877, that the increased frequency of micturition that occurs in irritable bladders and in phimosis may raise the pressure of the bladder contents, and lead to dila- tation of the ureters, and later of the pelvis of both kidneys. Secondary Changes in Hydro- nephrosis.— The changes in the renal parenchyma are the result of the increased pressure within the pelvis, and consist in compression followed by atrophy; the distension of the pelvis and calyces results in atrophy and displacement of the septa between the calyces, until finally there is one large cavity with sacculations corresponding to the original calyces (Fig. 168). The renal parenchyma may entirely dis- appear. The contents of the cyst in course of time become poorer and poorer in urinary constituents ; in a closed hydronephrosis of old standing the urea disappears, and a colourless serous fluid containing a trace of albumin remains. The fluid is sometimes coloured with altered blood pigment derived from antecedent haemorrhages into the sac. In an infected hydro- nephrosis the fluid becomes turbid or actually purulent, con- stituting a pyonephrosis. The clinical features vary according to the nature of the hydronephrosis. The development may be so insidious, for example in those cases depending on malformation of the ureter, that the patient first applies for treatment on account of swell- ing of the abdomen, of a lump in the loin which is discovered accidentally, or of a feeling of weight and pressure, and disturb- ance of the stomach and bowels. Fig. 167.—The Renal Pelvis laid open to show valve at outlet. P = pelvis. K = valve. (After Israel.) VOL. II—40626 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. A closed hydronephrosis, when of large size, fills up the flank, and can be palpated biraanually ; the colon lies in front of it, and the dulness over the cyst is continuous with that of the liver. A very large tumour bulges the ribs outwards, fills up one side of the abdomen, and, by extending down to the pelvis, may simulate an ovarian cyst. When the cyst fills the greater part of the belly, as it sometimes does in children, it may simulate a tuberculous ascites. In intermittent hydronephrosis, such, for example, as that associated with abnormal renal mobility, there are attacks of pain and sickness like those pro- duced by calculus, and from the fact that these attacks may be attended with marked ten- derness of the kidney and with haematuria, the differential diag- nosis may be diffi- cult. During the attack, while the pelvis is tempor- arily closed, the kidney is con- gested, and bleed- ing may take place into the sac. Fig. 168.—Hydronephrosis associated with valvular 'When the attack origin of ureter. Removed by lumbar nephrectomy . , , from a woman, aged 30, on account of ascending ls ov®r anc; ^ie infection from cystitis. occlusion relieved, the blood-stained contents of the sac pass down into the bladder, and haematuria results. If the attacks recur with great frequency, haematuria may be more or less constant. In the early stages of intermittent hydronephrosis the kidney returns to its normal size after the occlusion is relieved, and it is sometimes observed during the attack that the swelling suddenly disappears on manipulation, the kink being undone and the urine passing on. In the later stages the elastic recoil of the pelvis is lost and the organ remains enlarged, although it may not be easily palpable owing to the slackness of the cyst wall, and the attacks of pain may entirely disappear.HYDRONEPHROSIS. 627 Differential Diagnosis.—The painful attacks met with in early cases of intermittent hydronephrosis may be confused with stone or with biliary colic. The large palpable cyst of advanced hydronephrosis may be mistaken for a hydatid or other solitary cyst of the kidney, an ovarian cyst, a cyst of the pancreas, an encysted tuberculous ascites, or a retro-peritoneal lipoma. In open hydronephrosis it is sometimes observed that a sudden diminution in the size of the cyst is associated with an increase in the amount of urine. If the two urines are obtained separately, that from the affected kidney shows a diminished degree of concentration. The X-rays may show whether or not the hydronephrosis is due to stone. Exploratory incision remains the final appeal in difficult cases. Prognosis.—If the cause of the retention is capable of being removed, the kidney recovers its functions, and may return to the normal if any healthy parenchyma remains in the wall of the sac. The danger to life lies in the risk of septic infection, and, when the condition is bilateral, of uraemia. Among palliative measures, tapping the distended pelvis may be of service by affording temporary relief in the painful crises of floating kidney, or when life is threatened by anuria as in bilateral hydronephrosis. The hollow needle should be inserted at the outer edge of the erector spinm, midway between the last rib and the iliac crest. The procedure is free from danger if the hydronephrosis is aseptic. Tapping and drainage is an extension of the above, a fine drainage tube being passed down the lumen of the needle, and left in on withdrawing the latter. Operative Measures.—To effect a cure in hydronephrosis it is necessary not only to remove the primary obstruction to the outflow of urine, but also to correct the secondary changes in the pelvis and ureter. When the primary obstruction is diagnosed to be in the renal pelvis or adjacent part of the ureter, the kidney and upper end of the ureter should be exposed by the usual lumbar incision. If the cause is found to be an abnormal mobility of the kidney, which permits of kinking or torsion of the ureter, it may be possible, by means of nephropexy, so to fix the kidney as to re-establish the outflow through the ureter. If, however, the kidney is not only movable, but also presents an irregular distension of the pelvis, or if the deviated ureter is fixed by adhesions, or its pelvic orifice is blocked by a valve, then the mere fixation of the organ cannot be expected to cure the hydronephrosis.' After exposing the kidney and drawing off its contentsTHE KIDNEY AND URETER, 628 through a hollow needle, the kidney in its collapsed state is shelled out from its bed and drawn out at the wound; it should then be turned forwards towards the umbilicus so that the ureter, which is found closely applied against the posterior wall of the pelvis, may be inspected. To expose the communication between the pelvis and the ureter, the pelvis must be opened, preferably by incising the convex border of the kidney to an extent that will permit of an inspection of the interior of the pelvis. If there is a valve-like septum between the pelvis and the ureter (Fig. 167), it may be got rid of by the procedure intro- duced by Fenger, in 1892; the valve is divided longitudinally and then stitched at right angles, and a catheter is passed two or three inches down the ureter and retained for a few days. If, on the other hand, the upper end of the ureter is twisted and buried in adhesions, it should be separated from the pelvis and inserted through a fresh opening at the most dependent point of the sac—uretero-pyeloneostomy ; or a lateral anastomosis made between the free portion of the ureter and the dependent portion of the pelvis—uretero-pyelo-anastomosis. If the ureter cannot be found at its exit from the pelvis, it must be exposed lower down and traced upwards. If the pelvis is greatly dilated, it may be reduced in size by folding in its walls by tiers of sutures—pyeloplication (Israel)—or by excising the greater part of the sac (Fenger), in either case endeavouring to bring the orifice of the ureter to the lowest part of the pelvis. Anastomos- ing the pelvis with the bladder has been carried out by Witzel. These operations are only performed if the kidney is still functionally adequate. Drainage of the pelvis through the loin is an essential accompaniment of these plastic operations on the pelvis and ureter. It not only favours the healing of the wound made in the plastic operation, by draining away the urine, but it also gives the relaxed wall of the pelvis a chance of recovering its tone. The fistula usually closes when the drainage tube is removed. In some cases nephrostomy alone is followed by cure of the hydronephrosis, it may be by the mere fixation of the sac to the wound, as in cases of movable kidney, or by restoring the elastic tone of the wall of the pelvis and thus enabling it to overcome any remaining obstacle to the outflow through the ureter. A stone in the pelvis or ureter, or a stricture of the ureter, must be got rid of at the time the kidney and ureter are exposed at the .operation.PYOGENIC INFECTIONS. 629 Nephrectomy, or extirpation of the hydronephrotic kidney, is to be had recourse to when conservative measures are im- practicable or have failed, provided always that the opposite kidney has been proved to be capable of carrying on the work of both. The lumbar route is preferred, but the trans-peritoneal route may be selected when the hydronephrosis affects a con- genitally displaced kidney, or one which floats freely within the abdominal cavity. When the cause of the hydronephrosis cannot be removed, and nephrectomy is contra-indicated, a permanent fistula may be established in the loin. Pyogenic Infections of the Kidney. Pyelitis, Pyelo-nephritis and Pyonephrosis.—The term pyelitis is applied to pyogenic infection of the renal pelvis; pydo -nephritis indicates that both the pelvis and renal parenchyma are involved; and pyonephrosis that there is super- added obstruction to the outflow of urine, so that the calyces become distended and form abscess cavities. The term surgical kidney was formerly applied to suppurative affections of the kidney, because they frequently followed upon the passage of instruments or upon operations on the lower urinary organs. Pyogenic organisms may reach the kidney by the blood- stream—hcematogenous infection, or by way of the ureter from the lower urinary organs — ascending or urogenic infection. It is not always possible, either clinically or anatomically, to differentiate between these inodes of infection, and it is probable that they are frequently combined. The kidney is specially liable to organismal infection when it is congested, or when its secretion is retained as a result of obstruction to the outflow of urine; hence it is that pyogenic affections of the kidney are frequently met with as a sequel of hydronephrosis, and of obstructive lesions in the lower urinary organs. The blood infections, in which the colon bacillus plays the chief part, may follow on any acute infective disease, such as carbuncle, lymphangitis, osteomyelitis, or typhoid. The urogenic infections are most often met with as a sequel of septic cystitis, and the organisms concerned include the colon bacillus, staphylo- cocci, streptococci, and gonococci. Renal and perirenal abscesses of embolic origin.—In addition to the pyogenic lesions of the kidney that are associated with pre-existing or coexisting disease of the urinary organs, sup- puration may attack the healthy kidney as a result of bacterial630 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. embolism. The organisms may gain access to the circulation through the skin, for example, from a boil or whitlow, or from any other source of septic infection, and there may be an interval of from one to four weeks before the metastasis to the kidney takes place, during which time the initial septic lesion may have healed. iThe infection is usually unilateral, and assumes the form of an abscess in the cortex, and sometimes there is sup- puration outside the kidney. The metastasis to the kidney is attended with symptoms of general infection, fever, disturbance of the digestive functions, pain in the side or loin, and tenderness below the twelfth rib; in course of time a swelling may form in the loin. As soon as the condition is recognised the kidney should be cut down upon and the abscess opened and drained. Acute infective pyelo-nephritis is usually a complication of septic cystitis, and is a frequent cause of death in cases of chronic septic disease in the lower urinary organs. The most striking appearance is that of multiple minute abscesses scattered throughout the cortex and beneath the capsule, and of lines of suppuration in the medulla. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is in a condition of acute catarrh. The lesion may be confined to one kidney, but is usually bilateral, and is then nearly always more advanced on one side than on the other. Clinical Features.—The acute phase of the illness is of sudden onset, and is ushered in by a rigor, which may be repeated ; there is thirst, headache, and constipation; the tongue is dry, coated, and cracked, and the patient goes downhill rapidly. There may be pain and - tenderness over the kidney, but the organ can rarely be palpated. The urine is scanty and turbid, and contains pus, albumin, blood, and tube casts, and, if there has been ante- cedent chronic cystitis, it is usually foul and ammoniacal. If death occurs, it is preceded by coma and other symptoms of uraemia. Treatment is usually confined to the relief of symptoms. The kidneys are flushed by administering diluted milk, Contrexeville and barley water, and urinary decomposition retarded by such drugs as urotropin. It was formerly believed that the condition was always bilateral and beyond relief by surgical means, but Israel has shown that the lesion may be confined to one kidney, and that incision or removal of this organ may be followed by recovery. Pyonephrosis may be defined as that form of suppuration in the kidney and its pelvis which is associated with obstructionPYONEPHROSIS. 631 to the outflow of urine. It represents, therefore, a combination of retention and infection. It is met with as a sequel to hydronephrosis—“infected hydronephrosis ”; aud as a sequel of stone in the pelvis of the kidney—“calculous pyonephrosis.” In these the infection is usually derived from the blood, the dis- ease is unilateral, and the affected organ may attain a considerable size (Fig. 170). It is also met with as a sequel to septic cystitis, especially when the hindrance to the outflow of urine is a stricture of the urethra or enlargement of the prostate, or frequent spasmodic contraction of the bladder, as in gonor- rhoeal or puerperal cystitis. Under all these conditions the pyonephrosis is bi- lateral, although it is fre- quently more advanced on one side. The infection is commonly an ascending one, taking place by way of the ureter, and being favoured by the increased backward pressure (Fig. 169). As a result of chronic inflammation, the walls of the ureter become thickened and fused with the peri- toneum and surrounding tissues, and the lumen is usually dilated, although sometimes it is narrowed. Morbid anatomy.—On section the kidney presents a number of abscess cavities, the intervening parenchyma being pale and tough as a result of chronic interstitial nephritis. Unless there has been antecedent hydronephrosis, the pelvis is usually small in proportion to the greatly enlarged and flask-shaped calyces, which constitute the abscess cavities and form the chief bulk of Fig. 169.—Bilateral pyonephrosis with dila- tation and thickening of the ureters, re- sulting from gonorrhoeal cystitis in a girl aged 18. (Diagrammatic.)THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 632 the kidney (Fig. 170). Their communications with the pelvis and with each other are narrowed or obliterated, so that they may be regarded as separate cavities from the operator’s point of view. The purulent contents are often mixed with crumbly masses of phosphates. The mucous membrane of the pelvis and calyces is converted into granulation tissue, and, in advanced cases, becomes the seat of ulceration which eats into the paren- chyma. The renal blood-vessels are thickened and narrowed by endarteritis, so that there maybe very little haemorrhage when the pedicle is divided or torn. The perinephric cellular tissue is converted into granulation and scar tissue, and is frequently the seat of scattered foci of sup- puration, and sometimes a large perinephric abscess is found to communicate directly with one of the dilated calyces. The perinephric suppuration may extend into the psoas andquadratus muscles, or into the cellular planes of the abdominal wall. Clinical Features.—When the kidney becomes infected the patient’s general condition becomes worse, and to the symptoms of the antecedent affection are added pain in the loin and abundant pus in the urine. If the outlet from the pelvis becomes blocked the symptoms are aggravated, and the pus may disappear from the urine; there is high fever with or without rigors, the pain may amount to renal colic, and the kidney becomes enlarged and tender. Variations in the size and tenderness of the kidney, and in the amount of pus in the urine, are characteristic of a pyonephrosis which is alternately open and shut. The diagnosis is difficult in the absence of a palpable tumour of the kidney and of abundant jms in the urine. Most reliance is to be placed on examination of the urine obtained separately from each kidney. The treatment depends on the conditions present. In the Fig. 170.—Section of pyonephrosis show- ing abscess cavities. The specimen measured 18 inches in length. (Museum, Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.)STONE IN THE KIDNEY. 633 ascending infections it must be directed towards the disease in the lower urinary organs as well as towards the kidney. So far as the kidney is concerned the surgical treatment resolves itself into nephrotomy or nephrectomy. Nephrotomy is indicated in cases of pyonephrosis in which there is a prospect of re-establishing the outflow through the ureter, and in which all the cavities in the kidney can be opened up and drained without destroying the functions of the organ. Nephrectomy is indicated in more severe cases, especially when there is irremediable obstruction in the ureter, and when there is suppuration around the kidney, which can only be properly dealt with after removal of the organ. Nephrectomy is per- formed by the lumbar route, and the divided ureter should be brought out at the wound. Stone in the Kidney and Ureter—Calculous Diseases— N EPHRO-LITHIASIS. We are here concerned only with the formation of a stone in a kidney which was previously healthy, that following on disease of the kidney—secondary stone—is referred to under the different affections in which it occurs. General Characters of Urinary Calculi.—A stone consists of solid urinary constituents held together by an organic basis of an albuminous nature, possibly derived from epithelium which has been shed as a result of catarrhal processes. A stone com- posed of uric acid or urates is yellowish-brown in colour, of hard consistence, and has a smooth or morocco-leather-like surface; on section it is homogeneous or concentrically laminated. Such stones are frequently multiple, and may attain a large size. The oxalate of lime calculus is dark brown or black from admixture with blood pigment; it is very heavy and densely hard; the surface is rough, tuberculated, or beset with sharp projections, and on section shows a wavy lamination. It is of very slow formation and is usually solitary. The phosphatic stone is composed of the triple phosphates and carbonates of lime and magnesia; it is usually of a white or dirty grey colour, is light and porous, rough on the surface, and friable, and it may attain a considerable size. Its formation is frequently attended with'alkaline decomposition of the urine. Other varieties of stone are rare, but mention may be made of the cystin calculus, which is white or yellowish, soft and friable, and on section presents a resemblance to wax. The chemical634 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. composition of any stone is rarely the same throughout; the varieties are named according to the preponderat- ing constituent. There is no constant relationship between the reaction of the urine and the composition of the stone. The etiology of stone is unknown. The condition is more frequent in cer- tain families, especially tainted with a gouty inheritance, and it is much more common in some countries, particularly Hungary, India, and China, than in others. In this country it is most prevalent in Norfolk. It is met with chiefly in boys under ten, and in adults after middle life. It is usually said to be rare in the female, but operation statistics showthat renal calculus occurs with almost equal frequency in the two sexes. Seat of Formation, Shape, and Size.—A stone is usually situ- ated in the pelvis or in one of the calyces. A stone which is lodged in a calyx is usually spherical, while one lodged in the pelvis is often triangular, with the apex directed towards and into the ureter. In exceptional cases the stone forms a cast of the entire pelvis, and presents coral-like branches corresponding to the individual calyces (Fig. 171). Small stones may pass into the ureter, and lodge just below the kidney, at the brim of the true pelvis, or near its termination in the bladder. A ureteral calculus is usually elongated like a date- stone, but may become rounded. The channel of the ureter may be obstructed by the stone itself, or obstruction may result from set. 55. Fig. 171.—Branching Uratic Calculus which formed a cast of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney. (Removed by Prof. Annandale.)635 STONE IN THE KIDNEY. superadded swelling of the mucous membrane and spasm of the muscular coat. Uric and phosphatic stones are not infrequently multiple, and are then usually faceted. Both kidneys are the seat of stone in about one-third of the total cases, and the stones may be of different composition on the two sides. Morbid Anatomy of Calculous Kidney.—In the absence of septic infection the changes in the kidney are the result of mechanical irritation, with or without retention of urine accord- ing to the situation of the stone. The irritation induces an increase in the interstitial connective tissue, whereby the organ becomes tougher and harder, and the fatty and fibrous capsules become thickened and fused with one another, and firmly adherent to the parenchyma. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is injected and swollen, and the stone tends to become buried in it as a result of contraction of the wall of the pelvis. If the stone hinders the outflow from the pelvis, hydro-nephrotic changes result. In some cases there is a remarkable overgrowth of fat, which originates at the liilum, surrounds the calyces, and finally replaces the parenchyma, the kidney being ultimately transformed into a solid lipoma enclosing a cavity—the pelvis— in which the stone is lodged (Fig. 172). When infective processes are superadded there ensue the same changes as have already been described under pyelo- nephritis and pyonephrosis. The perinephric cellular tissue also may become the seat of suppuration and of abscess. The addition of sepsis may result in the deposition of phosphates upon the existing stone, which may thereby be greatly increased in size. The opposite kidney may remain healthy, and may even undergo hypertrophy to compensate for the loss of function in the diseased organ, but it also is liable to become the seat of stone formation and of infection and suppuration. The clinical features vary widely in different cases. In the absence of sepsis a stone may lie in one of the calyces for years without giving rise to symptoms — latent stone. The symptoms of the septic complications, on the other hand, may so predominate that the existence of stone is not suspected. As a rule, however, the patient seeks advice because of dull aching and weight in the loin, or of recurrent attacks of colic. Renal colic is due to spasmodic contractions of the pelvis and ureter in the attempt to get rid of the stone. It is characterised by agonising pain shooting from the loin to the bladder, testicle, or thigh ; nausea and vomiting, shivering and collapse, with cold perspiration. There may be frequent desire to urinate, with the636 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. passage of a little blood-stained urine. There is rigidity of the abdominal muscles on the affected side. The colic may recur at intervals till the stone is passed, or, after one or two attacks, may disappear altogether, the stone settling down, as it were, in the renal pelvis. Apart from colic, the patient may complain of a persistent boring pain or feeling of weight in the loin, excited or aggravated by exertion, jolting, local pressure, or errors in diet. When asked to indicate the seat of the pain, he usually places the tip of his thumb over the end of the last rib. Renal tenderness is most marked in the region of the hilum, and is best elicited on bimanual examination if the thumb be pressed into the angle between the last rib and the erector spinse at the commencement of expiration. It is exceptional to recognise any enlargement of the kidney. Tenderness of the ureter may be elicited at the site where a stone has become impacted; if this be at the brim of the true pelvis, the seat of tenderness is a little above and internal to the external abdominal ring; more commonly it is at the termination of the ureter in the bladder, and is felt on rectal or vaginal examination. According to Israel 50 per cent, of ureteral stones may be pal- pated from the vagina or rectum. Even if the urine appears normal a careful microscopical and chemical examination should be made. Red blood corpuscles are to be found, especially after exertion, and more often in the evening than in the morning urine ; they are often devoid of colouring matter, and may be so altered in shape that it is difficult to identify them. Marked hsematuria is sometimes present, but is not characteristic of stone. So long as there is no infection there is a complete absence of leucocytes, and only a faint trace of albumin. The diagnosis, without the aid of the X-rays, is often extremely difficult. In cases attended with colic the first step is to ascertain that the colic proceeds from the kidney or ureter, and the second is to determine that it is due to stone. Differential Diagnosis.—Renal colic is to be diagnosed from biliary colic chiefly by the seat of the pain and tenderness ; from intestinal obstruction, by the seat of tenderness, and by the radiation of the pain to the thigh, buttock, testicle, or vagina; from pancreatic-stone colic, by the presence of red blood corpuscles in the urine. The impaction of a stone in the lower abdominal part of the ureter with colicky pain, and tenderness in the vicinity of the external abdominal ring, may be mistaken for a lesion of the vermiform appendix.RENAL COLIC. 637 The inference that the colic is due to stone is arrived at mainly by excluding the other conditions that give rise to renal colic. Renal colic may be due to any condition which interferes with the escape of urine from the pelvis or ureter, such as kinking of the pedicle of a movable kidney, commencing hydronephrosis, or blocking of the ureter with clots as in new growths of the kidney, or with caseous debris as in tuberculous pyelitis. Colic may also be induced by anything which causes a sudden increase of pressure within the kidney, as acute con- gestion or inflammation, or haemorrhage into the parenchyma. It may also be due to abnormal conditions in the ureter, such as stricture, involvement in adhesions, or injury occurring in the course of pelvic operations. The mere passage of oxalate of lime crystals may cause symptoms like those of stone, even to the extent of hsematuria. Great difficulty may arise in relation to certain forms of chronic nephritis attended with pain and hsematuria, and in cases in which, from the vagueness of the patient’s complaints, a diagnosis of lumbago and sciatica, chronic rheumatism, or nervous dyspepsia may be made. Statements by patients that they have passed blood or sand are to be accepted with caution, as they are apt to be deceived by the high colour of the urine and the deposit of urates on standing. The demonstration of the concretions by the Rongten rays is to be regarded as the only certain clinical means of recognising renal calculus. Uric acid and urate of ammonia calculi are almost as transparent as soft tissues, while those composed of oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, and even cystic oxide, are fairly opaque. The opacity of the cystic oxide stone is due to the presence of sulphur. The procedure is best carried out after the method described by Kiimmell of Hamburg. The bowels having been cleared out, the patient is placed in the dorsal position, with the thighs acutely flexed and the head bent forwards, so that the loin lies evenly on the sensitive plate. A trial radiogram'*!* taken by means of a soft tube placed at the maximum distance from the plate, and if a suspicious shadow is found on the negative, its position is accurately marked on the back of the patient, and the corresponding point on the anterior abdominal wall determined. A second radiogram is then taken with the tube immediately over this point, while the surrounding parts are protected by a leaden shield as large as a dinner plate; the tube is to be as close to the body as possible, so as to render, by magnification, even small stones more easily recognisable. Another method is described by J. R. Riddell of Glasgow.638 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. The patient lies on a canvas-topped couch face downwards. The tube is placed under the couch on a movable stand so that it can be brought under any part. Under the abdomen is placed a thin rubber air-cushion, with the object of raising the lumbar spine and obliterating its anterior curve, thus bringing the Fig. 173.—Radiogram of Stone in both Kidneys. (Radiogram by Dr. Dawson Turner.) kidneys and ureters nearer the plate. It also lessens the respira- tory movements of the abdomen. As many as from three to five negatives should be taken in each case. The interpretation of the radiogram is a matter of importance. Sometimes a stone shows so plainly that no mistake can be made. Often, however, the shadow is very faint, and merges into its surroundings so gradually as to make it very difficult to be sure of it.639 NEPHROLITHOTOMY. Sometimes a definite shadow is cast by dense masses of scar tissue, calcareous glands, or scybala in the bowel. Riddell believes that a skiagram to be of any value must show the iliac crest, the last ribs, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrm, and the edge of the psoas muscle. Unless the last mentioned is seen, a negative opinion should never be formed, however good the skiagram may be in other respects. The shadow of the stone remains constant both in its contour and in its position; it is most often found a little below the twelfth rib, and about an inch distant from the second lumbar vertebra, in the area corresponding to the pelvis of the kidney. Stone may be excluded if repeated examinations yield a negative result. Information is also gained as to the exact situation of the stone, its size and shape, and whether there is more than one —all points of importance in planning an operation. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stone.—Short of operation, treatment is directed chiefly towards diluting the urine; the patient should take large quantities of bland fluids, of which the best is hot water, or such mineral waters as those of Contrexe- ville or Wildungen. Drugs of the urotropin class are useful in preventing the onset of septic complications. Renal colic is to be relieved by hot local applications or hot baths, and by large doses of belladonna, hypodermic injections of morphin, or, in severe cases, by the inhalation of chloroform. Operation is indicated in cases with severe recurrent colic, or with constant aching in the loin which interferes with the pur- suits of the patient, also in all cases in which a stone is impacted in the ureter, and when there is evidence of septic infection. Operation is contra-indicated in cases of frequently recurring colic, in which every attack is followed by the passage of a small non-faceted stone, and the patient between the attacks is quite well, and the urine normal, because in such cases there is probably fresh stone formation from time to time, and an opera- tion would be useless. The operation for the removal of stone is known as nephro- lithotomy, and was first carried out successfully by Henry Morris, in 1880. The kidney is exposed by the usual lumbar incision, and is brought out at the wound and carefully palpated. If a stone is felt in the pelvis, this is opened into by cutting through the kidney substance. The vessels at the hilurn being controlled by the fingers of an assistant, the organ is incised slightly on the dorsal aspect of its convex border, to admit the finger to the pelvis and calyces. If no stone is felt with the finger, a long straight needle or hat-pin may be employed to search the kidney640 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. substance. If there are no septic complications, the wound in the kidney is closed by deep catgut sutures, but as the kidneys generally harbour and secrete micro-organisms, a cigarette drain should be inserted so as to drain the perirenal spaces. If the stone is lodged in the upper part of the ureter, it is displaced by manipulation into the pelvis, and removed as above. If this is not possible, the ureter is incised in its long axis— ureterotomy—the stone extracted, and the opening closed by fine catgut sutures. If the stone is impacted near the crossing of the iliac vessels, the original incision in the abdominal wall must be carried downwards parallel with Poupart’s ligament, so as to expose the ureter by the extra-peritoneal method, or an incision is made directly over it, like that made for the removal of the appendix, and it is reached by the trans- peritoneal method. Stones at the lower end of the ureter may be removed from the interior of the bladder after opening this viscus above the pubes or through the vaginal roof ; or in the male, through the perineum or by the para-sacral.route. Bilateral Stone.—The presence of stone in both kidneys, as demonstrated by the X-rays, precludes nephrectomy, even if there be pyonephrosis. Nephro-lithotomy should be performed on the kidney least affected, and, after an interval, on that of the opposite side. Calculous Pyelitis and Pyonephrosis. — The infection is usually derived from the blood-stream, and the changes are similar to those already described as occurring from sepsis apart from stone. There is progressive destruction of the secreting tissue, until, in extreme cases, the kidney is converted into a multilocular sac filled with stones and a mixture of pus and decomposing urine. Secondary deposit of phosphates commonly occurs both on the primary stone and on the walls of the pelvis and calyces. The septic process tends to involve the surrounding cellular tissue, and to give rise to perinephric abscess, and this may rupture externally, forming a fistula, which discharges, for an indefinite period, a mixture of pus and urine. With the onset of septic complications the prognosis becomes much more serious. The opposite kidney may become infected through the blood-stream, or death may result from general pyogenic infection, and the mortality of operations for the removal of the stone is increased about tenfold. The diagnosis from other forms of pyelo-nephritis and pyo- nephrosis is suggested by the history, and established by skiagraphy. Before recourse is had to operation, it is of great importance to determine the functional capacity of the641 CALCULOUS ANURIA. opposite kidney by separate examination of the urine from eacli kidney. The operative treatment consists in performing nephro- lithotomy with subsequent drainage, or nephrectomy. In all cases attended with pronounced suppuration and destructive changes in the substance of the kidney, with obstruction to the flow of urine into the bladder, nephrectomy affords the best results, provided the secretory functions of the other kidney are satisfactory. In either operation the wound is left open, and several cigarette drains are inserted. Calculous Anuria. —Arrest of the renal secretion as a result of calculous obstruction is nearly always due to the sudden blocking of the ureter, the opposite kidney having been destroyed by antecedent calculous disease. It is maintained by some authorities, and notably Israel, that the sudden blocking of the ureter on one side may reflexly arrest the secretion of the opposite kidney, but the general opinion is that only a diseased kidney will stop secreting under reflex nervous influence. The anuria may develop suddenly in a person in apparently good health, it may be after jolting or exertion. It usually occurs in men after middle life, but has been observed in women and in young children. The symptoms of calculous anuria are not simply those of uraemia, and they differ from those of anuria due to other causes. Renal colic, or aching in the kidney recently obstructed, is often present at the outset, but usually disappears when the suppression of the renal secretion is complete. There may be trouble with micturition, such as a continual desire to pass water though the bladder may be empty, or the passage of urine with difficulty in drops or teaspoonfuls. Rarely there is abundant pale urine of low specific gravity. Even when the secretion of urine is completely suppressed, many days (7 to 10) may elapse without any ursenlic symptoms. When phenomena of uraemia do supervene—vomiting, drowsiness, contraction of the pupils, and muscular tremors—death ensues in a day or two (Henry Morris.) It is not usually difficult to differentiate calculous anuria from other forms of suppression, such as that due to Bright’s disease, but it may be extremely difficult to determine which of the kidneys was last obstructed, and yet this is of great importance, as it is this kidney that is most likely to recover its functions if the obstruction be relieved. Most reliance is to be placed on the site of the recent colic, and on unilateral rigidity of the abdominal muscles, with tenderness of the kidney on the same side. Treatment.—Palliative measures directed towards the elimina- VOL. II—41642 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. tion of waste products by way of the bowels and skin cannot with safety be prolonged for more than forty-eight hours, because of the clanger that the renal epithelium may not recover its functions, even although the obstruction be relieved. The shortest and simplest operation is to be preferred. The kidney last occluded is laid freely open and a cigarette drain inserted into the pelvis, so as to relieve the intra-renal tension ; the obstructing stone, unless readily accessible, is left till the crisis has been tided over. If it is found that the exposed kidney is not the seat of obstruc- tion, or if it is destroyed by antecedent disease, then the opposite kidney must be exposed and laid open, either at once or within the next twenty-four hours. Tuberculosis—Tuberculous Pyelo-nephritis—Renal Phthisis. Chronic caseating tuberculosis in the parenchyma of the kidney is a comparatively common disease. In the great majority of cases the bacilli reach the kidney by way of the blood-stream. Morbid Anatomy.—Although at first localised to particular parts of the organ, the disease becomes diffused by the confluence of areas of caseous infiltration, and these areas break down, forming cavities filled with cheesy debris, which subsequently perforate into the calyces and pelvis. The mucous membrane of the pelvis and ureter becomes the seat of tuberculous thicken- ing and ulceration, and if the ureter be blocked, the pelvis and calyces become dilated, as in pyonephrosis (Fig. 174). The organ is then greatly enlarged, and presents as a fluctuating tumour with a bossy, hillocky surface, the projections corresponding to the individual abscess cavities, and yellow foci are visible on the surface. The ureter becomes adherent to its surroundings, as a result of peri-ureteritis, its outer and middle coats are thickened, its mucous membrane infiltrated with tubercle, and its lumen narrowed and sometimes blocked by caseous debris and pus. The fibrous capsule of the kidney and the perinephric fat partici- pate in the chronic inflammatory process, and become thickened and indurated, so that the kidney becomes fixed in its bed and adherent to surrounding parts—notably the peritoneum. We have observed such dense adhesions to the spleen, stomach, and colon, that the removal of the organ by operation was im- possible. A large perinephric abscess may form as a result of the rupture of an abscess through the cortex. The pus, both within the kidney and outside of it, usually contains not only643 TUBERCULOSIS. tubercle bacilli, but also colon bacilli, staphylococci and strep- tococci. The presence of stone in the pelvis is exceptional, although we have ourselves observed it in two cases, in both of which the resemblance to calculous pyonephrosis was so great that the tuberculous nature of the lesion was only cleared up by the microscope. The spread of the tuberculous infection down the ureter, mainly by the lymphatics, results in infection of the mucous membrane of the bladder, at first round the ureteral orifice on the affected side, later over the greater part of the floor. It is a fact of great clinical im- portance, that primary tuberculous infection of the kidney through the blood-stream is nearly always uni- lateral. According to Kronlein, the disease is confined to one kidney in 92 per cent, of the total number of cases. The disease is three times commoner in women than in men. Tuberculous disease of the Fal- lopian tube in the female, and • of the epididymis and prostate in the male, may precede or follow upon renal tuberculosis, but it is probably the result of an independent infection through the blood-stream. Clinical Features.—In the early stages the symptoms usually suggest an affection of the bladder rather than of the kidney, as the patient may complain chiefly of frequent and painful micturition. The irrita- bility of the bladder is due to nerve influences proceeding from the kidney and ureter, for it occurs before there is any disease in the bladder, and it usually disappears as soon as the affected kidney is removed. Some- times there are attacks like renal colic from contractions of the ureter while tuberculous material is passing down the tube. Sometimes haematuria is one of the first symptoms, and when occurring in persons in apparent good health it is apt to suggest the presence of a tumour or of a stone in the kidney. As the disease progresses the features become characteristic ; there is failure of health and loss of flesh, and in the female, amenor- rhoea ; tenesmus of the bladder is almost continuous day and night, and as its cavity becomes more and more contracted Fig. 174. — Advanced Tuber- culous Kidney showing mul- tiple abscess cavities in paren- chyma. Removed by lumbar nephrectomy.THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 644 there is practically incontinence, especially in the female. The urine shows an abundant mixture of pus and caseous debris, but at times may become almost clear, such intervals correspond- ing to blocking of the affected ureter. When the ureter is so blocked there is more lumbar pain, and the kidney may be felt to be enlarged and tender. On making a vaginal examination, an enlarged, cord-like ureter, sometimes nodular and sometimes so infiltrated and rigid that it feels as though it would break under firm pressure, is felt through the anterior vaginal wall, slipping round the front of the cervix. Pressure upon this often induces an intense desire to urinate. The opposite fornix is, as a rule, soft and yielding, and here the practised touch detects the normal ureter slipping like a soft, wet string between the fingers as it is handled bi-manually or pressed against the pelvic wall. In the male, the thickened ureter can sometimes be felt through the wall of the rectum. Septic infection of the urinary tract is liable to follow ex- amination of the bladder, or the ill-advised treatment of the bladder symptoms by local measures. This greatly accelerates the progress of the disease, the amount of pus in the urine is greater, and if there is retention in the pelvis there is fever, often of the hectic type, attended with rapid emaciation and sweating; the kidney is felt as a tender movable tumour, or, if a perinephric abscess be superadded, the loin is filled up by a diffuse fixed swelling in which fluctuation may be detected. In advanced cases the urine may become alkaline and offensive, and if the disease is allowed to run its course, death ensues from uraemia. Diagnosis.—The onset in a young adult of symptoms of cystitis which cannot be traced to gonorrhoea or to infection from a catheter, should raise the suspicion of tuberculous kidney. In contra-distinction to calculous affections, the symptoms are not relieved by rest; in fact, they are often worse during the night. As tubercle bacilli are not constantly found, their absence does not exclude tuberculosis, but their presence in acid urine along with pus is characteristic. The cystoscope, which can scarcely ever be employed in advanced cases because of the contracted and irritable state of the bladder, may show minute tubercles and ulcers, and injection of the mucous membrane around the ureteral orifice on the side of the affected kidney. When there is chronic induration and contraction of the ureter, the ureteral orifice is retracted. Examination of the urine obtained from each kidney by the separator or by the ureteral catheter affords the most conclusive645 TUBERCULOSIS. evidence; that from the affected organ is pale, turbid, and shows great diminution of urinary solids■ it may also yield tubercle bacilli; that from the healthy kidney shows increased concentra- tion. When performed in the early stage of the disease and with proper precautions these procedures are harmless; in advanced cases they are not only difficult or impossible, but may aggravate the symptoms. ' The prognosis is good when the disease is recognised early and is got rid of by nephrectomy ; advanced cases with septic infection and tuberculosis of the whole genito-urinary tract are well-nigh hopeless. Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is the procedure of choice. The fibrous and fatty capsules should be removed along with the kidney, but when adhesions render this impossible, the organ is shelled out from its capsule. If there is a perinephric abscess between the parietes and the kidney, it should be emptied in the first instance through a large trocar and suction syringe to avoid Hooding the wound with pus. Similarly, if the kidney is found to be merely a bag of pus, it should be emptied in the same way before enucleation. Partial resection of the kidney is not to be recommended, because it is impossible to be certain of the limita tion of the disease to the portion resected. To get rid of the disease in the ureter, Kiimmell uses a galvano-cautery of the size of a ureteral sound, which is passed down the ureter and then heated to a red heat and withdrawn slowly. Mayo injects the ureter with ten or fifteen drops of pure carbolic acid, and stitches the upper end in the posterior angle of the wound. If the ureter is to be removed, this should be done in its entire length, either at the same time as the kidney is excised or at a subsequent operation. Partial removal of the ureter is liable to result in the formation of a persistent sinus. The bladder tubercle tends to get well of itself, although in the female irritability and incontinence may persist for some weeks. After any operation for renal tuberculosis the patient should be placed under open-air treatment as soon as the shock has passed off, usually at the end of forty-eight hours. We have found this an invaluable addition to our therapeutics. When the disease is bilateral, the kidney that is most affected is opened and drained by nephrotomy. When the epididymis and prostate are also affected, benefit may follow removal of the testicle, and, when the testicular disease is bilateral, it may be advisable to perform double castration. Perinephritis.—Cicatricial changes in the perinephric fat may result in its transformation into a mass of dense fibrous646 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. tissue, which binds the kidney to the parietal peritoneum, the diaphragm, and adjacent viscera. Should it become necessary for any reason to remove the kidney under these conditions, the organ must be shelled out from its fibrous capsule—subcapsular nephrectomy—to avoid injuring the organs to which it is attached. Suppurative Perinephritis and Perinephric Abscess.—This results from bacterial infection of the perirenal cellular tissue, and is usually secondary to some septic tuberculous disease in the kidney or ureter. Less commonly the perinephric tissue is infected from other sources, for example, as a sequel to appendicitis, typhoid ulceration of the intestine, empyema, psoas abscess, or pelvic cellulitis in women. /t The pus usually forms between the parietes and the kidney, displacing this organ forwards and upwards. The abscess may spread upwards into the sub-phrenic space or downwards into the iliac fossa, and may rupture externally in the loin, in the buttock, or in the thigh. Rupture has occurred into the colon and into the bronchi. A perinephric phlegmon or abscess is to be differentiated from a renal tumour by the absence of definition, by extension of the swelling into the surrounding parts, and by the fact that it does not move with respiration. The abscess should be opened by the usual oblique lumbar incision, and its interior investigated both as to the existence of secondary collections of pus, especially in the deep retro-peritoneal tissue, and also as to the condition of the kidney. Any suppura- tive lesion of this organ may be dealt with either then and there, or on a subsequent occasion. Tumours and Cysts of Kidney.—Innocent new growths, such as fibroma and adenoma, are merely of pathological interest. Cancer occurs in a diffuse infiltrating and in a circumscribed nodular form. A circumscribed cancer in the parenchyma may erupt into the pelvis, and cause bleeding and partial obstruction of the outlet. Even diffuse cancer may not cause any appreci- able enlargement of the kidney. Sarcoma is occasionally met with in childhood, between the ages of one and four, and it has been met with at birth. In addition to embryonic connective tissue, the tumour contains newly-formed epithelium arranged in a glandular manner, and a number of smooth and striped muscle fibres in the stroma. The kidney may attain an enormous size — equal to one- third of the weight of the body—but has comparatively little647 PERINEPHRIC ABSCESS. tendency to form secondary growths, or to erupt into the pelvis and cause hsematuria. In adults the disease usually causes great enlargement of the kidney, and in a considerable proportion it fungates into the pelvis and causes hsematuria. Malignant tumours of the kidney may perforate the capsule and infect the perirenal cellular tissue,-may spread along the renal vein into the vena cava and spermatic vein and plug these vessels, or fragments may be carried off in the blood-stream and give rise to secondary growths. On the whole, metastasis takes place at a late stage of the disease, and less widely than in malignant disease of other internal organs. Infection of the retro- peritoneal lymphatic glands is exceptional. Adrenal tumours may be conveniently studied along with tumours of the kidney, with which they are liable to be confused. They may be of the nature of cancer or sarcoma, or may present a structure like the cortical portion of the adrenal, being then described as hypernephroma. Adrenal tumours in children are usually hypernephromata, and are sometimes associated with pigmentation of the skin and precocious development of the sexual organs; in the adult, they are usually of the nature of sarcomata, and when the tumour has attained a large size it may be difficult to determine whether it has originated in the supra- renal capsule or in the kidney. Clinical Features. — In the child, there are, as a rule, no symptoms until the tumour has attained sufficient size to attract the attention of the mother or nurse, and by this time the disease is so far advanced that operation holds out little prospect of permanent cure, and is scarcely to be recommended. In the adult, the tumour has usually existed for a considerable time before giving rise to symptoms, and attention may first be drawn to it by the discovery of a swelling in the loin, or by the occurrence of a profuse hsematuria. In a few cases there is an obvious failure of health, with amemia and uneasiness in the loin, before any swelling is discovered. Sometimes, and especially in rapidly growing tumours, there is pain, due to stretching of the capsule, which may shoot downwards to the thigh or testis. Hsematuria is common, and is due to the growth erupting through the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis. It may follow some exertion or slight violence, but there is seldom any obvious cause. The patient may experience no discomfort, or he may have to strain to express a clot before the urine, which is of the colour of burgundy, escapes. The urine gradually becomes clear, or ifTHE KIDNEY AND URETER, 648 clots are a marked feature, it may cease abruptly from temporary blocking of the ureter. Clots may also cause typical renal colic, and worm-like coagula forming casts of the ureter may be passed in the urine. The recognition of a tumour in the loin is not always possible ; growths at the upper pole, especially in stoutly built men with rigid parietes, are only palpable at an advanced stage. When present, the tumour is irregularly ovoid, firm or hard, with a smooth or bossy surface. The diagnosis may be aided in the early stages by the use of the cystoscope, which may demonstrate the escape of blood from one or other ureter, or by obtaining the urine from each kidney separately. The urine from the affected kidney is less concentrated than normal, and contains albumin. In a certain proportion of cases there is a recent varicocele on the same side. Prognosis.—The most favourable cases are those in which hsematuria occurs early, and draws attention to the condition so. that the kidney can be removed while the growth is still localised in the central part of the organ. A palpable tumour which is fixed by adhesions, the presence of anaemia, and loss of flesh are all unfavourable symptoms. In some cases the disease runs a latent course and the patient may live for as long as five or even ten years (Guyon). Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is to be performed in selected cases, and the fatty capsule is removed along with the kidney. If adhesions are so great that it is only possible to shell out the organ from its capsule, the operation holds out little prospect of cure. Tumours of the renal pelvis and ureter form a group of which the villous papilloma is the best-known representative. Haunaturia is the chief symptom, but the growth may block the pelvic outlet and cause retention of urine and blood, and, in infected cases, of pus, whereby the kidney may become sufficiently enlarged to be recognised on palpation. Fragments of the villous growth may be grafted on the mucous membrane of the ureter, and if sprouting from the lower opening of this tube, may be seen with the cystoscope. Portions of villous growth and clumps of epithelial cells may be found in the urine. An exact diagnosis can rarely be made without an exploratory incision through the kidney into the pelvis; if a tumour is discovered, nephrectomy should be performed, as it is never safe to regard such tumours as innocent. Solitary Cysts of the Kidney.—These arise in the cortex649 TUMOURS AND CYSTS. usually at one of the poles or in the perirenal cellular tissue, and become closely applied to the capsule of the organ. As the cyst enlarges it projects from the surface, and may attain enormous dimen- sions (Fig. 175). The cyst causes no symptoms, and is not recognised un- less it is large enough to form a palpable tumour ; it is then liable to be mistaken for a hydro- nephrosis, or, if at the lower pole, for an ovarian tumour. The treatment is to remove the cyst by Fig. 175.—Solitary Cyst at Upper Pole of Left dissection, preserving the Kidney, from a woman, set. 29. kidney. Polycystic Kidney—Cystic Degeneration of the Kidney. —This is a comparatively rare condition, in which the kidney becomes permeated with a vast num- ber of cysts which greatly add to the size of the organ, and which lead to the almost complete disappearance of the secreting tissue (Fig. 176). The cysts vary in size and may attain the dimensions of grapes or walnuts, and their contents are clear and straw- coloured or dark yellow, purplish or deeply blood-stained. The cysts often communicate with one another, but they do not communicate with the pelvis or calyces. Both kidneys are commonly affected, although the dis- ease is usually more advanced on one side; in a considerable proportion of cases, the liver, and less frequently the spleen, is also the seat of multiple cysts. As in other chronic affections of the kidney, there may be hyper- trophy of the left ventricle of the Pig. 176.—Polycystic Kidney from a woman, ret. 40, in whom the other kidney also was affected. heart and general arterio-sclerosis. Clinical Features.-—The disease may run a latent course for many years, and then prove fatal650 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. within a few days from suppression of urine. The oldest recorded case died at the age of 88. Not infrequently there is polyuria, slight haematuria, and thirst or dryness of the mouth. Sometimes the chief complaint is of palpitation and breathless- ness, or an enlargement in the abdomen may have attracted attention. In typical cases bilateral renal tumours are discovered on palpation. The swelling retains the shape of the kidney, moves with respiration, and can be moved between the two hands. If only one kidney can be felt to be enlarged the diagnosis is more difficult, unless the liver is also affected, in which case the liver is enlarged, and the cysts may be felt on its anterior surface. The urine is like that met with in the contracted kidney; it is increased in amount, pale in colour, and of low specific gravity ; there is a trace of albumin, occasionally tube casts, and decolorised haemocytes ; sometimes there is visible haematuria. The presence in the urine of concentrically laminated colloid bodies like those met with in the prostate is believed to be pathognomonic. The surgical importance of this condition lies in its diagnosis, as it is not amenable to any form of treatment. If not recognised until the kidney is exposed, the proposed operation should be abandoned. Renal Haemophilia or Essential Haematuria.—These terms have been applied to a condition in which severe haemorrhage occurs periodically from one kidney in the absence of any of the usual causes of bleeding, such as stone, tumour, or tuberculosis. In some cases there is unilateral pain, sometimes amounting to definite renal colic, and on cystoscopic examination blood has been found to issue from the ureter on the same side. Casper records cases in which, even on most' careful microscopical examination of the kidney after removal, no lesion could be discovered to account for these symptoms. In another group of cases presenting similar symptoms the kidney has been found to be the seat of chronic diffuse ’paren- chymatous nephritis. In view of the importance in these cases of making a differential diagnosis from other renal lesions giving rise to haematuria, the kidney should be exposed by operation, incised and thoroughly examined. Both in the cases in which nephritis has been found and in those in which no lesion could be discovered, the operation has been followed by the disappear- ance of the haematuria and complete recovery. Operative Treatment of Nephritis.—Reginald Harrison, inOPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEPHRITIS. 651 1896, showed that in cases of acute nephritis (Bright’s disease) the relief of tension afforded by incision of the capsule of the kidney—renal capsulotomy—is followed by disappearance of the lumbar pain, and of the blood and albumin from the urine. Even when only one kidney is thus dealt with, the functional condition of the other kidney is much improved by the diminu- tion of the demands made upon it. In 1901, Edebohls recorded a series of cases of chronic Bright’s disease in which he had operated by incising the kidney substance and stripping off its capsule—decapsulation of the kidney. These operations have been practised with considerable benefit in many cases. Animal Parasites in the Urinary Tract.—The Filaria san- guinis hominis may be carried to the urinary organs in the blood stream, and in the course of its elimination through the kidney it may give rise to haematuria and chyluria. The con- dition is met with in those who have resided in tropical countries. The urine looks like milk or cream, streaks or clots of blood appear mingled with it, and the embryo filarue are found on microscopical examination. The Bilharzia hcematohia is met with in those who have resided in certain parts of Africa, and especially in Egypt. The parent worm inhabits the portal vein and its tributaries, but after impregnation the female buries herself in the submucosa of the renal pelvis, ureter and bladder, in which she lays her eggs. These are provided with a sharp terminal spine, by means of which they bore their way through the mucous membrane and gain access to the urine. These processes are attended with haematuria and sometimes with pain and spasm. The mucous membrane may become the seat of granulations and fungosities, which may partly block the pelvis and ureter. In the bladder, the eggs are found in the superficial layers of the mucous membrane and cause pain and intermittent haematuria; if septic infection is superadded, there is an aggravated form of cystitis with a tendency to phosphatic deposit and stone formation. The patient should be removed, if possible, from the district in which the disease prevails, and treatment should be directed to the relief of symptoms and the maintenance of the general health. Urinary antiseptics have little in- fluence on the parasites, but recent trials of exposure to the X-rays of the region of the body affected have yielded encour- aging results. The Echinococcus hominis is responsible for the development of hydatid cysts in the kidney. If these rupture into theTHE KIDNEY AND URETER. 652 pelvis, daughter cysts and booklets may be found in the urine, with the addition of pus when septic infection is superadded. Hydatid cysts do not form in the bladder itself, but when situated in the recto-vesical space, they may cause difficulty in micturition. Surgical interference is carried out on the usual lines.653 CHAPTER XXXIII. THE URINARY BLADDER. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Catheters—Operations on the bladder—Drainage of the bladder—Extroversion or ectopia— Injuries: Rupture; Penetrating wounds—Foreign bodies — Bac- teriuria—Bacterial infections : Cystitis ; Special forms of cystitis ; Tuberculosis; Pericystitis■—Stone, Vesical calculus — Tumours — Pouches, diverticula and cysts—Disturbances of function, Nocturnal incontinence. Surgical Anatomy.—The bladder occupies the anterior part of the pelvic cavity lying behind the symphysis pubis. In the adult, the bladder, when empty, is entirely within the pelvis, its walls are contracted and firm a®d lie in contact with one another. As the organ becomes filled the cavity becomes spherical, and the superior wall is projected upwards until the highest point lies above the symphysis. As the bladder rises into the abdomen it carries with it the peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall, so that there is an area of the organ, extending for from one to two inches above the symphysis, uncovered by peritoneum, through which it may be punctured or incised without opening the peritoneal cavity. Posteriorly the peritoneum dips down, in the male, between the bladder and the rectum forming the recto-vesical pouch ; in the female, between the bladder and the uterus. Laterally the peritoneum passes on to the sides of the pelvis. The region of the urethral orifice or neck of the bladder, although the most fixed part of the organ, is slightly lower when the bladder is full, and higher when it is empty, especially if at the same time the rectum is distended. The mucous membrane of the bladder is devoid of glands ; in the empty organ it is thrown into folds except in the triangular area—the trigone— the apex of which is at the urethral orifice, while the base is represented by a line drawn between the openings of the ureters. Stretching across between the ureteral openings is a smooth, curved ridge due to bundles of muscle fibres disposed transversely ; this ridge is known as the inter- ureteral bar, and becomes unduly prominent in cases of enlarged prostate with difficulty in emptying the bladder. The ureters pierce the bladder wall obliquely, thus affording a valvular hindrance to the reflux of urine ; their orifices are readily seen with the cystoscope as elliptical slits open- ing at intervals to emit urine. The desire to micturate comes on when the bladder contains from eight to twelve ounces, but it can easily hold as much as a pint, and under abnormal conditions the bladder mayTHE URINARY BLADDER. 654 contain several pints, and project as a rounded tumour above the symphysis (Fig. 177). In the female, the bladder as a whole lies deeper in the pelvis, and even when distended does not rise so far into the abdomen. In the child, it occupies relatively a much higher level, and even when empty its anterior aspect is usually in contact with the abdominal wall, and is therefore more liable to be wounded in performing a median laparotomy than in the adult. The space of Retzius is the name given to the area in front of the bladder that is occupied by loose, mobile lobules of fat which are easily moulded to accommodate the bladder as it fills up from below. The space is limited in front by the pubes, above by the peritoneal reflec- tion, and behind by the bladder ; laterally it is continued into the general space occupied by the extra-peritoneal fat, and below into the cellular tissue of the pelvis. The capacity and relations of the space are best recognised in cases of extravasation of urine from rupture of the anterior wall of the bladder below the peritoneal reflection. The bladder receives an abundant blood-supply through the vesical Fig. 177.—Over-distended Bladder forming an Abdominal Tumour. arteries. The lymphatics form a network in the submucous and muscular coats, and communicate with those that surround the prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens, and terminal portions of the ureters. So long as the epithelial covering of the mucous membrane is intact there is no absorption from the bladder, this being in marked contrast with the urethra, which absorbs with remarkable rapidity. In the absence of inflammation the mucous membrane is but slightly sensitive to contact—except in the region of the neck—hence a foreign body or a stone may be present without giving rise to symptoms, and the contact of instruments employed for exploration is scarcely appreciated except while passing through the neck. Methods of Examination.—A pihysical, chemical, microscopical and bacteriological examination of the urine should be made in all cases. It is instructive also to see the pjatient making water, as valuable informa- tion may be gained by noting the character and size of the stream, the duration of the act, and whether or not any pressure is required to expel the urine. It is also important to carry out the two-glass test, which consists in the patient passing the first portion of urine into one glass and the second portion into another. When there is pus in the655 METHODS OF EXAMINATION. urethra and the contents of the bladder are normal, the urine in the first glass is found to contain pus, while that in the second is clear. If, on the other hand, the urine in the bladder contains pus, this is most abundant in the second glass, and may be confined to it. When the bladder is over-distended and contains, it may be, from one and a half to two pints, it forms a visible tumour above the pubes. Percussion usually elicits a dull note over such a full bladder, but in corpulent subjects this test may prove misleading. The distended bladder may be palpated between the two hands, if one is placed above the pubes and the index of the other in the rectum or vagina. The finger in the rectum comes in contact with the prostate in the middle line and should recognise its median groove and two lateral lobes. Pressure of the finger in the median groove of the prostate causes an immediate desire to make water. Above the prostate the finger comes into contact with the base of the bladder and on either side of the prostate with the seminal vesicle, although this structure cannot be recognised with the finger unless it is distended or indurated. In the female, the urethra may be dilated—preferably with the graduated dilator of Kelly—sufficiently to admit of the little finger being inserted into the bladder, and with the other hand above the pubes successive areas of the bladder wall may be accurately palpated. Catheters.—A catheter is a hollow instrument employed to draw off the contents of the bladder. It may be made of pure rubber, gum-elastic material, or silk-covered with shellac, or of metal or glass. In general terms it may be said that where there is no obstruction in the urethra one made of pure rubber is to be preferred, because it is readily sterilised by boiling, and is least likely to injure the mucous membrane of the urethra. In using a catheter every means must be taken to prevent septic infection. The operator’s hands must be disinfected or he should wear sterile gloves. The meatus and glans are cleansed, and the penis, after being wrapped round with sterile gauze, is drawn through an aperture in a sterile towel. The anterior urethra is irrigated with boracic solution by means of a glass-barrelled syringe provided with an acorn-sliaped urethral nozzle. The material used for lubricating the catheter—sterilised vaseline, glycerine, or soap—is best carried in a collapsible tube, from which the required amount is expressed on to sterile gauze, and thence transferred to the catheter. Rubber, glass, and metal catheters are sterilised by boiling, or, when this is impracticable, by prolonged immersion and washing through with carbolic solution (1 in 20) ; gum-elastic catheters by suspension in formalin vapour or prolonged immersion in corrosive sublimate (1 to 1000). The use of the cystoscope has already been described (p. 610) ; the use of the sound and other instruments will be described along with the individual diseases of the bladder. The X-rays may be employed in the recognition of a foreign body or of a stone in the bladder, and they may also prove useful for demonstrating the size and shape of the organ, when it has been filled with a ten per cent, emulsion of bismuth or a two per cent, solution of colloid of silver. Operations on the Bladder.—Cystotomy implies opening the bladder in order to explore its interior or to deal with disease in its walls, stones or foreign bodies. When the bladder is opened above the pubes, it is known as the supra-pubic or high operation ; when from the perineum, as perineal cystotomy. When the opening is intended to act as a temporary or a permanent fistula, the term cystostomy may be employed.656 THE URINARY BLADDER. When the bladder is opened for the removal of a stone, the operation is known as lithotomy. Resection of the bladder, partial or complete, is known as cystectomy. Before any of these operations the bladder is thoroughly washed out until the water conies away quite clear, and it is then filled with five to seven ounces of hot boracic lotion. In performing perineal cystotomy a staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, an incision about an inch and a half in length is made in the middle line of the perineum extending downwards to about one inch in front of the anus. After dividing the super- ficial structures, the left forefinger nail feels for the groove in the staff as it lies in the membranous urethra, the knife is inserted along the finger - nail into the groove in the staff, and is pushed on until its point enters the bladder. The staff is then withdrawn and the forefinger is passed into the bladder to explore its cavity. A tube is then tied in and attached to a suction apparatus (Fig. 178). In performing supra- pubic cystotomy the bladder is filled with water or with air, and the patient is placed in the Trendelen- burg position. A vertical or curved horizontal in- cision is made above the symphysis, through the skin, superficial fascia, and fascial layers covering the recti. In order to obtain more room the attach- ments of the recti to the symphysis may be partly divided together with the pyramidales muscles and the tense insertion of the linea alba. The finger is introduced behind the symphysis and draws upwards the thin fascia transversalis, the extra - peritoneal fat, and the reflection of the peritoneum, exposing the smooth, bluish, outer surface of the bladder, which is then incised behind the symphysis. In aseptic conditions the wound in the bladder may be closed by two tiers of stitches, but when drainage is called for it is left open and a glass drainage tube inserted and connected with a suction apparatus. Drainage of the Bladder.—To keep the bladder empty, continuous Fig. 178.- -Cathcart’s Apparatus for Drainage of the Bladder.657 MALFORMATIONS. suction drainage should be employed after the method devised by C. W. Cathcart. The method is founded on the principle of the Sprengel pump. A soft rubber catheter is tied in the bladder. The catheter is connected, by means of about two inches of glass tubing, with one end of a flexible rubber tube, the other end of which is attached to the stem of a T-shaped glass tube pinned to the edge of the bed. To each end of the transverse limb of the T-tube a piece of rubber tubing is fixed. The upper tube leads to a douche-can or reservoir, which is suspended at the head of the bed above the level of the patient ; the lower tube passing over the side of the bed, ends in a glass tube with several bends like a double S, which hangs over a pail on the floor. A screw clip on the upper tube regulates the rate of outflow from the reservoir ; a drop every few seconds is sufficient. lly introducing a V-shaped glass tube into the rubber tube between the bladder and the T-shaped tube the urine can be collected in a separate receptacle. The principle is that the water falling by its own weight through the dependent j>art of the lower tube, causes negative pressure or suction above it, which, owing to the regulating clip, can only be partially satisfied by entrance of water from the reservoir. The rest of the sucking force is necessarily exercised upon the tube leading from the bladder. It is essential that there shall always be some portion of the tube between the T and the pail completely filled, otherwise air will pass and destroy the suction ; hence the value of the S-tube, at least one bend of which is always filled with fluid. It is also essential that the calibre of the narrowest part of the tube from the reservoir (i.e. at the clip) shall be less than that of the narrowest part of the tube between the T and the pail; otherwise the reservoir becomes an ordinary head of water, the pressure in the system of tubes becomes positive, and water is forced into the bladder. The apparatus works equally well in draining by the urethra, through the perineum, or supra-pubically. The difference is that in the two former cases there is no air in the system of tubes ; in the last case there is necessarily air in the bladder which is sucked along with the urine down the tube. An average case of supra-pubic drainage requires a flow of about four to six pints in twenty-four hours. In urethral or perineal drainage one pint is often sufficient. Malformations.—Extroversion of the Bladder—Ectopia vesicae.—This is a rare malformation, in which there is an arrest of development of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, symphysis pubis, bladder, urethra, and external genitals. The term extroversion is applied to it because the posterior wall of the bladder, being unsupported in front, is pushed forwards like a hernia, and projects in the middle line below the navel (Fig. 179). In the infant it presents as a rounded tumour about the size of a walnut, moving with respiration, and being partly reducible on pressure. The surface is covered with mucous membrane, which is sensitive, and may show minute haemorrhages and excoriations from contact with the clothing, and the skin around often presents irregular cicatrices. At the lower part of the tumour are the ureteral openings, from which the urine VOL. 11—42THE URINARY BLADDER. 658 escapes in jets. In the male the tumour is continuous below with a rudimentary penis, the urethra being represented by an open gutter on the dorsum—epispadias. The malformation entails considerable suffering, the urine dribbles away, so that the clothing is constantly wet, and the skin becomes red and excoriated. Decomposition of the urine and inflammation of the exposed mucous surface of the bladder are liable to occur, and the infection may ascend to the kidneys and prove dangerous to life. Various plastic operations have been performed with the object of forming a new anterior wall to the bladder, but because Fig. 179.—Extroversion of the Bladder in a Female Child. of the absence of any sphincter muscle the incontinence is not benefited, and if decomposition of the urine with deposition of phosphates take place, the newly-formed bladder is liable to become the seat of stone. To overcome the incontinence the ureters may be transplanted into the sigmoid flexure or into the rectum. To diminish the risk of ascending infection from the bowel, Maydl of Vienna transplanted the segment of bladder wall containing the ureteral orifices intact, thus preserving the valvular character of these openings. An extra-peritoneal opera- tion has been introduced by Peters of Toronto, the ureters being inserted into the rectum. After either of these procedures the patient is able to retain the urine in the rectum for several hours, and to void it at will. The morning urine is mixed with faeces,RUPTURE OF BLADDER. 659 but at other times it is usually quite clear. The mucous mem- brane of the extroverted bladder may be left alone, as it in time acquires the appearance of skin. Hernia of the bladder, or cystocele, is described at p. 431. Injuries.—Rupture.—Rupture of the bladder is met with chiefly in adult males. A full bladder is easily ruptured by any form of violence applied to the lower segment of the belly, such as a blow, a kick, a crush by the wheel of a vehicle, or a fall on a Flu. 180.—Pelvis from case of Extroversion of Bladder iu an adult. There is also congenital dislocation of both hips. projecting object. In fractures of the pelvis the bladder is often ruptured, even if it is empty at the time of the accident. Intra-peritoneal rupture involves the portion of bladder covered by peritoneum, and is nearly always the result of violence applied to the abdominal wall when the organ is distended. The tear is vertical or oblique, and is very constantly situated at the highest part of the posterior wall, a fact which was formerly believed to be due to the impact of the organ against the promontory of the sacrum, but is now ascribed to the arrangement of the muscular flbres, the tear occurring where the mucous membrane is least supported. The rupture is660 THE URINARY BLADDER. believed to take place from within outwards, and the serous coat is that most widely torn. The urine, slightly tinged with blood, escapes into the peritoneal cavity, and the ruptured organ collapses. In spite of active absorption by the peritoneum, the amount of urine in the abdomen increases, and with the advent of organisms from the kidneys, the intestine, or an infected catheter, there ensues an insidious form of septic peritonitis. Extra-peritoneal rupture is met with under two sets of con- ditions. In the first variety the bladder is over-distended, and is raptured by localised violence applied to the lowest part of the abdomen, the tear being situated in the anterior wall below the reflection of the peritoneum. The urine escapes into the cellular tissue of the space of Retzius, and as the amount of urine in- creases, it infiltrates the cellular tissue upwards towards the navel, outwards as far as the anterior iliac spine on either side, and downwards behind the symphysis as far as the neck of the bladder. The second variety is associated with fracture of the pelvis, and the bladder is torn, usually by the outer fragment of the horizontal ramus of the pubes, sometimes by the body of the pubes when the symphysis is forced asunder, rarely by traction on the anterior ligaments of the bladder. The tear is usually situated in the anterior wall close to the neck, and the urine escapes into the cellular tissue around the neck; it may then ascend towards the abdominal wall, or infiltrate the cellular tissue of the pelvis and accumulate between the bladder and the rectum. Bacterial infection usually occurs later than in the intra- peritoneal rupture, and results in diffuse cellulitis and suppuration in the track of the extravasated urine. Clinical Features.—Apart from cases associated with fractured pelvis, it is a remarkable fact that a rupture of the bladder is frequently overlooked when the patient is first seen. This error is more likely to occur in intoxicated persons, and in those who have sustained the lesion in a street brawl or accident, and are brought to hospital without a reliable statement of what has taken place, and sometimes there is comparatively little shock, and the patient may be able to walk, stooping forwards as he does so. If the patient is conscious, he complains of hypogastric pain and tenderness, and of a desire to pass water, although he is unable to do so. A catheter is easily passed, but although the bladder may not have been emptied for many hours, only a few drops of blood-stained urine are drawn off. If a rigid catheter is employed the bladder is usually recognised to be contracted, and the point of the instrument is restricted in the range of( RUPTURE OF BLADDER, 661 its movements. It is quite exceptional for its point to pass through, the rent and tap the urine in the peritoneal cavity; in the event of its doing so, a' large amount of urine slightly tinged with blood may escape. It is sometimes stated that the existence of a rent in the bladder may be demonstrated by injecting a measured quantity of fluid through the catheter into the bladder and observing the amount which returns, but the procedure is deceptive, as all the fluid may return even although the bladder is ruptured. In the intra-peritoneal variety there are rarely any character- istic signs of the presence of the accumulation of urine in the abdominal cavity. Dulness when present is ill defined, but a fulness of the pouch of Douglas may be recognised on rectal examination. From the third day onwards there is general illness with vomiting, gradually merging into septic peritonitis, and death usually ensues on the fifth or sixth day, from a com- bination of septic and urinary poisoning. hi the extra-peritoneal variety the urinary extravasation, through being confined within narrower limits, shows recognis- able signs within from twelve to twenty hours of the accident. When it spreads upwards above the pubes there is a well-defined area of dulness, and there may be also a fulness in the hypo- gastric region, with a convex upper border directed towards the umbilicus. When it accumulates in the cellular tissue of the pelvis the resulting swelling is recognised on bimanual examination. Treatment.—The indications are to get rid of the extravasatecl urine, and to close the rent in the bladder before septic changes have had time to occur. . In the intra-peritoneal variety the abdomen is opened in the middle line below the navel, the peri- toneal cavity irrigated with saline solution, the rupture in the bladder sutured, and a glass drain inserted into the pouch of Douglas, after which the abdominal wound is closed except where the tube emerges. If there are already signs of pelvic peritonitis, a drain should be passed from Douglas’s pouch into the rectum and brought out at the anus. Suture of the rent in the bladder is carried out after the method employed in other hollow viscera, except that catgut is to be preferred to silk, and the sutures must not include the mucous membrane, as phosphates from the urine may be deposited on them. Two tiers of continuous sutures are necessary, the superficial one in the fashion of Lembert, so as to invaginate the serous coat. The sutures should extend beyond the limits of the wound in the bladder, otherwise there is apt to be leakage662 THE URINARY BLADDER. of urine when the bladder is distended. A catheter is then tied in the bladder and attached to a suction apparatus. In the extra-peritoneal variety the position of the incision is determined by the seat of extravasation. If this is in the hypo- gastric region, the incision is made above the pubes as in supra- pubic cystotomy; the urine thus escapes, and the contaminated area is washed out with saline solution introduced through a catheter passed along the urethra into the bladder. Tepid water should be used for irrigation, otherwise the muscular coat of the bladder contracts, rendering the rupture inaccessible to suture. When the extravasation is low down, around the neck of the bladder and between the bladder and rectum, the incision is made in the middle line of the perineum, as in rupture of the posterior urethra. Penetrating Wounds.—These result chiefly from falls on pointed objects, stabs, and gunshot injuries. The penetrating instrument may enter through the anterior abdominal wall, the vagina, the rectum, or the perineum, or by way of the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen. Under this heading also may be included wounds accidentally inflicted on the bladder in the course of pelvic operations, the perforation of the bladder from within by a catheter, and in the radical cure of hernia. Gunshot wounds are usually associated with injury to the pelvic bones. The clinical features are similar to those of ruptured bladder, and the same complications are liable to ensue. The escape of blood-stained urine by the external wound is not constant. Unaided recovery is most likely to occur in wounds traversing the perineum, the vagina, or the rectum. In some cases a urinary fistula persists, and if a foreign body has been carried into the bladder, it may form the nucleus of a calculus. The treatment is the same as in ruptured bladder; if the peritoneal cavity is not implicated, it is usually sufficient to open up and drain the external wound; means are also taken to combat septic infection in the bladder. Foreign Bodies.—Objects of all kinds have been met with in the bladder, and they may gain access by various routes. Bodies entering by the urethra include portions of catheters, lithotrites, or other instruments introduced by the patient or surgeon ; and hair-pins, pencils, and similar objects by the patient. As a result of suppurative and ulcerative processes involving the wall of the bladder, various objects may gain access to its interior, as, for example, sequestra from disease of the pelvic bones, hairs and teeth from ovarian dermoids, or silk threads employed in gynecological operations.FOREIGN BODIES. 6G3 The clinical features vary with the foreign body. A pointed object, such as a hair-pin, may cause cutting pains, tenesmus, and hsematuria soon after its introduction, but some bodies give rise to no symptoms until the occurrence of cystitis and the deposition of phosphates upon the object leads to the formation of a stone (Fig. 181). These secondary changes may occur within a few days, or may be delayed for several months. The diagnosis is often rendered difficult by misleading in- formation, or by wilful deception on the part of the patient. In the female, the body may be recognised on vagino-abdominal examination, or by introducing the linger through the dilated urethra. In both sexes, however, chief reliance is to be placed on the cystoscope, which not only tells of the presence of the body, but also its nature, its position, and how best to remove it. Opaque bodies may be detected by the X-rays. Hard bodies, or soft ones encrusted with phosphates, may be struck with the sound or grasped with the lithotrite. Fig. 181.—Deposition of Phospliates upon a portion of Catheter. (From Professor Annandale s Collection.) The treatment consists in removing the body, if its shape and size permit, by way of the urethra. In the female this may be accomplished by means of dressing forceps introduced through the urethra, or in the male by means of the lithotrite. If these methods are inapplicable or do not succeed, the bladder should be opened above the pubes. Bacteriuria.—This implies the presence of bacteria in the urine without changes in the bladder wall. In about one-half of the cases observed the colon bacillus is the only organism present; the next most frequent is the typhoid bacillus, which appears in the urine after the second week of the fever and sometimes persists for years. As a rule the patient’s only complaint is that the urine when voided is cloudy or opalescent and has an offensive, fishy odour. Sometimes there is slight irritability of the bladder and an excess of mucus in the urine. The cloudiness does not disappear with the addition of an acid or on filtration, and the urine itself is nearly always acid. The diagnosis is based on the discovery of bacteria in urineURINARY BLADDER. 664 which is free from pus. The condition may last for an indefinite period, and may eventually terminate in cystitis. The exhibition of urinary antiseptics, notably urotropin or sandalwood oil, gets rid of the condition very quickly. When the colon bacillus is present the bowels should receive special attention. Bacterial Infection of the Bladder—Cystitis.—While organisms readily gain access to the bladder, they rarely succeed in producing changes in its wall unless there is also present some factor which favours their lodgment. Such factors are to be regarded as 'predisposing causes of cystitis. Complete evacuation of the bladder at each act of micturition is the greatest safeguard against infection, while retention of urine from any cause is an important factor in the production of cystitis. The stagnant urine constitutes a favourable medium for the growth of organisms, and ample opportunity is afforded for the toxins to act upon the mucous membrane. Paralysis of the bladder from injury or disease of the nerves or nerve centres is frequently followed by cystitis, because the organ is not completely evacuated and the nutrition of its tissues is impaired. Congestion of the mucous membrane—such as may result from exposure to cold, sexual excess, active diuretics, cantharides, alcohol, the mechanical irritation of urinary salts, foreign bodies, calculus or tumour—is one of the commonest predisposing causes of cystitis, especially when it is combined with incomplete emptying of the bladder. The determining cause of cystitis is bacterial infection. The organisms concerned are the diplococcus and the urobacillus liquefaciens, both of which decompose urea, and the various pyogenic bacteria, such as colon bacilli, staphylococci, strepto- cocci, pneumococci, gonococci, and probably a great many others which have not been identified. The colon bacillus is found in nearly one-half of the total cases observed. There is rarely only one species of organism present; those most frequently associ- ated are the colon bacillus, the urobacillus, and the staphylococcus. The urobacillus and the yellow staphylococcus are probably the most potent in causing cystitis, because they split up urea and bring about ammoniacal decomposition of the urine, which thereby becomes an irritating fluid and damages the mucous membrane with which it is in contact. The urethra is by far the most important route of infection. While the urethra, when normal, is sterile except in the immediate vicinity of the meatus, when diseased it is very liable to harbour organisms, and these may ascend to the bladder, or be carried thither by the passage of instruments. The short urethra of theCYSTITIS. 665 female readily transmits organisms from the vulva, especially in the conditions that attend the puerperal state. Organisms derived from the blood and excreted by the kidneys are conveyed to the bladder by the ureters, but so long as the bladder and urethra functionate normally, these organisms are expelled with the urine before they are able to establish themselves. It is of interest to note that the kidney may, over long periods, discharge a large amount of pus by way of the bladder without causing cystitis. The walls of the bladder may be traversed by organisms derived from the surroundings, possibly from the rectum, certainly from pelvic abscesses of appendicular or other origin, but even if the abscess has ruptured into the bladder this does not necessarily resnlt in cystitis. Organisms cause cystitis directly by the action of their toxins on the mucous mem- brane, or indirectly by the changes they bring about in the urine. Changes in the Bladder.— The changes in acute cystitis are most marked in the region of the neck of the bladder, and they affect chiefly the mucous membrane, which is intensely congested—of a brilliant scar- let when seen with the cysto- scope—and may show minute htemorrhages. Pus and flakes of fibrin adhere to the sur- face and float in the urine, and shedding of the epithelium may result in the formation of superficial ulcers. In chronic cystitis the inflammatory changes extend throughout the whole thickness of the bladder wall and result in cirrhosis, whereby the elasticity of the organ is much impaired. The mucous membrane is of a slate or violet colour, is often roughened or villous, and bleeds readily, or it may be the seat of ulcers; when the urine is ammoniacal the surface is covered with a foul-smelling layer of phosphates and decomposing pus. In streptococcal infections the walls of the bladder may be studded with minute abscesses. The entire mucous membrane666 THE URINARY BLADDER. may necrose and slougb off, as for example in the cystitis which attends retroversion of the gravid uterus, the condition being spoken of as membranous or gangrenous cystitis. The state of the muscular coat and the capacity of the organ vary with the condition of which the cystitis is a complication, and will be considered in the sections on stone, tumour, enlarged prostate, and stricture. It may be noted, however, that where there is a long-standing obstruction to the outflow of urine the bundles of muscle-fibres may stand out in interlacing columns—-fasciculated bladder (Fig. 182)—and the mucous membrane may be herniated between the columns, forming cysts or pouches in which the urine stagnates and decomposes, thus favouring the formation of stone. Clinical Features of Acute Cystitis.—These vary according to the cause of the cystitis and the conditions associated with it. In many cases spasmodic contraction of the bladder is the dominating feature, the patient complaining of frequent, urgent, and painful micturition. The pain is most marked at the end of the act, and is felt in the hypogastrium and radiating along the urethra. The spasm may be so great that it prevents the emptying of the organ, thus causing backward pressure and favouring the spread of the infection to the ureters and kidneys, and sometimes resulting in bilateral pyonephrosis. The urine is turbid, and on standing deposits flakes of fibrin, shed epithelium, red blood corpuscles, bacteria, and abundant leucocytes and pus corpuscles. In acid, urine the pus appears as a light, floating cloud or as a dense greyish deposit. In ammoniacal urine the pus corpuscles fuse together into a viscid, semi-translucent mass which entangles the other suspended matters and sinks to the bottom of the vessel. The recently passed urine should be centrifuged and films of the deposit stained for organisms. In gangrenous cystitis the urine is brown and putrid, and contains shreds of necrosed mucous membrane. Chronic cystitis may follow on an acute attack, or may commence insidiously ; in the latter case it is almost invariably a complication of an already existing affection of the urinary organs, such as stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. It then develops very gradually, the most prominent feature being the presence of pus in the urine, chiefly passed in the last one or two ounces, as may be demonstrated by the two-glass test. This condition may come and go over a period of years with occasional acute exacerbations attended with pain and frequency of micturition. If, from the presence of staphylococci or other urea-decomposing organisms, the urine undergoes alkaline fer-CYSTITIS. 667 mentation, and if at the same time there is some hindrance to the outflow, there is great risk of the infection ascending to the kidneys, causing pyelo-nephritis or pyonephrosis, these being the commonest causes of death in cases of chronic septic cystitis. The presence of fever, a tendency to shivering or to actual rigors, should always raise the suspicion that the infection is no longer confined to the bladder. Diagnosis.—It must be borne in mind that the cardinal symptoms of cystitis—pyuria, frequent and painful micturition —may also result from lesions of the kidney, especially tubercu- losis. When the pus is derived from the bladder, it appears at the end of micturition, and tends to sink to the bottom of the vessel. When derived from the kidney, the urine is more uni- formly turbid, and remains so after standing; the quantity of pus is scarcely influenced by washing out the bladder, there is more albumin than is accounted for by the pus, and the micro- scope often shows tube casts. Except in acute cystitis, the source of the pus should be determined by cystoscopic ex- amination, and the cause of the cystitis can usually at the same time be cleared up. The prognosis depends chiefly upon whether or not the pre- disposing cause can be got rid of; if so, then in the majority of cases the infection readily yields to treatment. Treatment.—In acute cystitis the patient is confined to bed with the lower limbs and pelvis raised, and hot fomentations are applied to the hypogastrium. Spasm is relieved by sitz baths, as hot as can be borne, by dram doses of hyoscyamus, or by sup- positories of belladonna and morphin (of each a quarter of a grain), or injecting into the rectum through a catheter thirty drops of laudanum in two ounces of warm water. An examina- tion of the urine should be made, as it may afford useful indications for treatment. If the urine is concentrated, it should be rendered bland by abundant diluent drinks, such as milk and hot water, or barley water, and by mineral waters such as those of Wildungen or Contrexeville. If it is highly acid and tends to deposit uric acid, the bicarbonates and citrates of soda and potash may be given. The bowels are freely opened, preferably by saline purgatives. When the acute symptoms have subsided, solid food may be allowed in the form of fish, milk-puddings, white meat, and fresh fruit, but the amount of fluids taken must not be diminished. Urotropin (ten grains thrice daily), lielmitol (fifteen grains thrice daily), salol (five grains every four hours), or oil of sandalwood (fifteen drops in capsules three times a day), should be given,668 THE URINARY BLADDER. especially if there is the slightest tendency to alkaline fermenta- tion of the urine. The introduction of remedies into the bladder by means of a catheter is rarely called for in acute cystitis. In chronic cystitis the most important element in treatment is to get rid of the associated condition—stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, or stone; if these have been removed and the urine has been rendered unirritating and free from decomposition by means of a course of one or other of the drugs above mentioned, the symptoms usually improve and finally disappear. Failing this, local treatment is indicated, and this is applied either by irrigation or by instillation. Irrigation of the bladder is carried out by means of a rubber catheter, attached to a large glass-barrelled syringe or to a douche-can. The amount of fluid introduced should not be sufficient to cause pain from tension. Nitrate of silver is the best germicide in septic cystitis, the insoluble chloride which is formed appearing to have a special facility of inhibiting the growth of organisms. The bladder is first irrigated with salt solution until this returns quite clear. The strength of the silver nitrate solution varies from a tenth to one per cent., and from two to four ounces is run in ; after two or three minutes it is allowed to escape, and to prevent the silver solution coming into contact with the urethra, the bladder is then rinsed out with sterilised water before the catheter is withdrawn. If the silver nitrate aggravates the symptoms or causes pain, it may be replaced by potassium permanganate (1 - 5000) or boracic acid (ten grains to the ounce). The irrigation should be repeated twice daily or less frequently according to the conditions present. Instillation of the bladder — a procedure introduced by Guyon—consists in injecting slowly drop by drop a small quan- tity—15-30 minims—of a germicidal solution into the neck of the bladder after the organ has been completely emptied. Instillation is indicated when the inflammation affects chiefly the parts about the neck of the bladder. It is carried out by means of a small graduated syringe attached to one of Guyon’s flexible olivary-headed catheters, with a terminal orifice and a very fine bore. Nitrate of silver is used in the strength of from 1 to 5 per cent., or perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000 to 1 in 10,000). The procedure is repeated every second, third, or fourth clay according to the reaction it excites. Special Forms of Cystitis.—Gonorrhoeal cystitis results from the extension of a gonococcal infection from the posterior urethra to the bladder, and is usually confined to the region of the neck and trigone. It is remarkable for the frequency andGONORRHCEAL CYSTITIS. 669 severity of the spasms which attend micturition, the urine being passed with great agony and in very small quantities. Gonococci as well as ordinary pus microbes are usually found in stained films of the purulent deposit. Treatment is conducted on the lines indicated in acute cystitis; the severity of the spasms may require repeated full doses of sedatives. If the disease persists, instil- lation into the neck of the bladder of a solution of silver nitrate, protargol, or argyrol should be carried out, or the bladder may be irrigated with permanganate of potash solution, 1 in 5000. Typhoid cystitis, due to the typhoid bacillus, occurs in the later stages of the fever or during convalescence. Cystitis complicating lesions of the spinal cord is char- acterised by the absence of any complaint on the part of the patient. The urine rapidly becomes loaded with pus and undergoes alkaline fermentation. The amount of pus and the reaction of the urine vary from time to time, as if there were waves of activity on the part of the bacteria concerned. Large quantities of fluids and full doses of urotropin and salol are given; the latter may be pushed until the urine presents a slight greenish tinge. The bladder should be washed out twice daily with boracic lotion, and occasionally with a half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver. If there is complete incontinence, the penis is wrapped round with sterilised gauze and inserted into the neck of a urine bottle — the latter being frequently changed and disinfected; or a catheter is in- serted into the bladder and connected with a suction apparatus ; in the female, a self-retaining catheter is employed, which con- ducts the urine into a receiver, or is connected to the suction apparatus. If there are threatenings of ascending renal infection, the question of cystotomy may be considered ; in the male this is done by the perineal route, in the female through the anterior wall of the vagina, the incision commencing a little below the cervix uteri; a tube is inserted through the wound and attached to a suction apparatus. Tuberculous Cystitis—Tuberculosis of the Bladder.—The bladder appears to be fairly resistant to infection by tubercle bacilli contained in the urine, for these may descend from the kidney over long periods without the bladder becoming affected. Vesical tuberculosis is always secondary to tubercle of the kidney or of the seminal vesicle, prostate, and epididymis. From the kidney—•descending infection — the bacilli pass by way of the lymphatics of the renal pelvis and ureter to those in the submucous coat of the trigone and neck of the bladder, and the disease com- mences in the vicinity of the orifice of the ureter on the same side.THE URINARY BLADDER. 670 From the seminal vesicle or prostate—ascending infection—the disease spreads by direct continuity, or by the lymphatics, to the submucous coat, and finally to the mucous membrane in the region of the trigone. The mucous membrane presents tuber- culous nodules and superficial ulcers with ragged edges, at first in the region of the trigone, but more widely spread as the disease progresses. The tuberculous infection is soon complicated with pyogenic organisms, and septic cystitis with alkaline decomposi- tion of the urine is liable to occur. In consequence of the excessive irritability of the bladder the walls become indurated and contracted, and the capacity of the organ greatly diminished. Clinical Features.—The disease is usually met with in a young adult who is already the subject of tuberculous disease in the kidney, prostate, seminal vesicle, or epididymis. When the condition is secondary to renal tuberculosis, it is difficult or impossible to distinguish between the symptoms due to the kidney and those due to the bladder. The cystitis is of an aggravated type and is particularly intractable. The pain on micturition is referred to the distal end of the urethra. There is usually a small quantity of blood in the urine at the end of micturition. The symptoms are not relieved by rest in bed and are often worst during the night. Bacilli are found with difficulty, even after centrifuging the urine. The diagnosis is greatly aided by the recognition of tubercle in the kidney, seminal vesicle, or prostate. The cystoscope is of value in the early stages ; later it can scarcely be used because of the extreme irritability and the contracted state of the bladder. In the female direct examination with a Kelly’s speculum is more generally applicable. Treatment.—As vesical tuberculosis is always a secondary condition, its radical treatment involves the removal of the primary focus of infection. If this is carried out, or if the primary disease becomes arrested, the bladder trouble is amenable to treatment and may even undergo spontaneous cure. The general dietetic and hygienic treatment for tuberculosis should be carried out, and marked benefit usually follows treatment in the open air. The local measures employed in septic cystitis are of little or no value, and irrigation as a rule does more harm than good. If the urine is ammoniacal, the injection of two or three ounces of boracic or corrosive sublimate lotion (1 in 10,000) may relieve the symptoms. In some cases the bladder should be opened above the pubes, the diseased mucous membrane removed with the scissors or sharp spoon, and the raw surface cauterised.STONE IN THE BLADDER. 671 Pericystitis and Peri-vesical Abscess.—Inflammation of the peri-vesical cellular tissue is a localised form of pelvic cellulitis, clue to lymphatic extension from lesions of the bladder itself or of neighbouring organs, such as the Fallopian tube or vermiform appendix. The inflammation may resolve with the formation of adhesions and fixation of the organ—a common result of chronic cystitis—or may be suppurative, resulting in the formation of one or more abscesses bounded by peri-vesical adhesions. Such abscesses are found chiefly on the posterior or lateral aspect of the organ, and may be discovered on bimanual examination ; they are liable to be overlooked, however, and to rupture into the bladder, and it may be also into the bowel, causing a recto-vesical fistula. When suppuration occurs the treatment consists in incision and drainage either above the pubes or through the perineum, along with measures directed to the lesion of the bladder or other organ with which the suppuration is associated. Stone—Vesical Calculus. The general facts as to urinary lithiasis have been referred to in describing stone in the kidney. A primary stone is one which forms in the normal bladder con- taining acid urine, and composed of uric acid, urates, or oxalate of lime, and of the same substance throughout. A secondary stone forms in a bladder which is the seat of chronic cystitis with alka- line urine; it is chiefly com- posed of phosphates, but these Fig. 183.'—Uric Stone from the often surround a primary stone bladder, about one-half natural size, composed of uric acid, which has (From Professor Annandale’s Collection.) acted as a nucleus. The same varieties are met with in the bladder as in the kidney, but phosphatic concretions due to ammoniacal decomposition of the urine are more commonly met with in the bladder, and are much softer and more friable than similar stones which have come down from the kidney. As regards their shape, in contrast to renal calculi, which frequently present a triangular or branching formation in association with the form of the renal pelvis and calyces, vesical stones are usually rounded, ovoid, or discoid (Fig. 183), and when there are several they tend to acquire faceted672 THE URINARY BLADDER. surfaces as a result of mutual contact (Fig. 185). The stone may form a cast of a portion of the bladder with which it lies in contact 5 many stones, for example, present a groove on the lower aspect due to- the inter-ureteral bar. When a stone lies partly in the bladder and partly in the prostatic urethra, it may present a characteristic hour-glass con- striction corresponding to the junction of the two cavities (Fig. 186). An elongated stone suggests that it has formed around a foreign body. Fig. 184.—Oxalate of Lime or Mulberry Sources of Origin.—The Calculus. Natural size. great majority of calculi found (From Professor Annandale's Collection.) in tlie bladder have descended from the kidney, and after entering the bladder have increased in size. The minority take origin in the bladder, most commonly by the precipitation of phosphates as a result of alkaline decomposition of the urine. The forma- tion of stones around foreign bodies affords the most striking example of the latter method of origin (Fig. 181). Little is known of the rate of growth of vesical stones in general, but foreign bodies may become en- crusted with phosphates in a few days, and a pI0- ^35.—Faceted Phospliatic Stones from a stone of considerable size case of septic cystitis complicating enlarged may be formed in this prostate. Half natural size. Way within a few months. (From Professor Annandale's Collection.) Guyon states that a uric stone takes several years to attain a diameter of two inches. Relations to the Bladder.—A stone usually lies free in the cavity of the bladder and alters its position with the attitude of the patient. A very large stone tends to become fixed by the673 STONE IN THE BLADDER. walls of the bladder contracting upon it, and, when there is chronic cystitis, by granulations springing from the mucous membrane inserting themselves into irregularities on the surface of the stone. A stone is said to be encysted when it lies in a pocket which communicates with the vesical cavity. The encystment of a stone may be due to its partial retention in the ureter, to its passing into, or forming within, one of the pouches of a sacculated bladder, or the cyst may result from a localised con- traction of the bladder-wall upon the stone, in which case the wall of the cyst contains muscle fibres. As an encysted stone does not move about in the bladder, the characteristic symptoms of calculus may be absent, and it may escape detection by the sound ; on bimanual examination it may feel like a tumour. Clinical Features.—While stones form in the kidney with about equal frequency in the two sexes, males suffer from stone in the bladder much more frequently than women. This comparative immunity of women to vesical stone depends partly on the fact that the female urethra permits of the escape of small calculi from the bladder, and partly on their exemption from those forms of chronic cystitis attended with stagnation of the urine which lead to the formation of secondary stone. Vesical calculus is comparatively common in boys under twelve. The symptoms of stone are due in the first place to the calculus acting as a foreign body; and in the second, to inflam- matory changes in the bladder set up thereby. A small stone, in virtue of its capacity of moving about in the bladder, is on the whole more likely to cause typical symptoms than a large stone upon which the wall of the bladder has contracted. A stone with a smooth surface does not give rise to the same urgent symptoms as a rough stone, such as one composed of oxalate of lime. The clinical symptoms are pain, frequency of micturition, and VOL. II—43 Fig. 186.—Hour-glass Stones. Natural size. (From Sir Patrick Heron Watson’s Collection.)674 THE URINARY BLADDER. haemorrhage; all three are aggravated by exercise or jolting, and, so long as the bladder is not infected, are greatly relieved by rest in bed. The pain is referred to the perineum or to the point of the penis, and is most marked at the end of micturition when the sensitive neck of the bladder contracts upon the stone. Sudden arrest of the stream of urine, due to the stone obstruct- ing the entrance to the urethra, with renewal of the flow on a change of posture, is a characteristic symptom, but is not always present. If the stone enters the prostatic urethra, it may completely block it and so cause retention; but if it only partly obstructs the canal, it may keep it open and so cause incontinence. While some drops of bright blood may be observed at the end of micturition, hsematuria is rarely a prominent feature ; in exceptional cases, however, the haemor- rhage is as profuse as in tumours of the bladder, but it ceases promptly when the patient is confined to bed. Red blood corpuscles are frequently found on microscopical examination of the ur.ne. In boys, the irritation of the stone causes them to drag upon the penis and the prepuce is elongated thereby. At a varying stage in the history the clinical features of the stone are complicated by the occurrence of septic cystitis. The urine tends to undergo alkaline decomposition, and the stone may increase in size by the deposition of phosphates. The symptoms are no longer so markedly relieved by rest, and the patient suffers by night as well as by day. He is liable also to exacerbations of symptoms from the cystitis giving rise to continued spasm at the neck of the bladder, and he may have to urinate every quarter of an hour or so. Spasm of the wall of the rectum occurs at the end of micturition and tends to the development of prolapse. In the final stages, the health of the patient is further undermined by the ascent of the septic infec- tion to the kidneys and death usually results from suppurative pyelo-nephritis. Methods of Examination and Diagnosis.—In any case of suspected stone in the bladder it is essential that an investiga- tion be made of the urine, as this may reveal conditions which should receive treatment before the bladder is explored. In thin subjects and in children it may be possible to feel the stone on recto-abdominal examination, especially under an anaesthetic. In adult males the condition of the prostate should be investi- gated from the rectum. Sounding the Bladder for Stone.—The patient should be confined to bed for some hours before the exploration. The urine is drawn off, the bladder filled with boracic solution (four675 LITHOLAPAXY. to six ounces in the child, eight to ten in the adult), and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position. The instrument —preferably a combined catheter and sound—is then passed. If the stone is free and movable, it is usually struck at once; if not, the sound must be rotated and moved backwards and forwards systematically so as to explore the entire cavity. If the prostate is enlarged, the floor of the retro-prostatic pouch must be raised by a finger in the rectum. When the stone is struck there is a metallic click in the case of uric and oxalic calculi, or a soft grating in those composed of earthy phosphates. In the event of failure to strike the stone, the table is lowered to the horizontal, and the bladder is then allowed to empty itself through the catheter, when the stream may bring the stone against the point of the instrument. An idea of the size of the stone may be gained by drawing the beak of the sound from end to end and then from side to side of it. The patient should remain in bed for some hours after the exploration. When the sound fails to detect the stone, a small lithotrite may succeed ; its blades are opened at the most dependent part of the bladder, the pelvis shaken with the left hand, and the stone tends to fall between the blades. The cystoscope is often instructive, as it tells the shape, size, and nature of the stone, may reveal a stone which cannot be reached by the sound, and gives information as to the condition of the mucosa. The X-rays are of value in doubtful or difficult cases, and should be had recourse to when for any reason it is undesirable to introduce an instrument into the bladder. Although the diagnosis of stone in the bladder is rarely attended with difficulty, clinical experience has shown that the condition is often overlooked because it is not suspected. This is especially true of cases in which stone complicates some pre- existing urinary affection, such as stricture or enlarged prostate. Treatment.—By whatever means it is proposed to remove the stone, the patient should previously be confined to bed for some days, and the urine and bladder brought into the best possible condition. Litholapaxy—introduced by Bigelow in 1878—is the ideal operation in all cases in which it is possible to perform it. Such is the unanimous opinion of surgeons in the Indian Army and of others who have had large experience in the treatment of stone. After disinfection of the parts concerned, the patient is anaesthetised and placed in the Trendelenburg position. The bladder is irrigated with boracic solution, and from six to ten ounces of the fluid left in the bladder. The urethra may requireTHE URINARY BLADDER. 676 to be dilated with bougies and the meatus incised, in order to permit of the passage of the instruments employed—about Nos. 16-20 of the English scale. The lithotrite is introduced into the bladder, and when its blades are opened at the most dependent part of the organ, the stone usually falls between them. The stone is then grasped and moved towards the centre of the cavity to ensure that the bladder wall is not included. The blades are locked and the screw action of the instrument employed to crush the stone, the pressure being increased gradually. As the stone breaks the fragments fall to the most dependent part of the bladder, and are in turn picked up and crushed until they are reduced to fragments small enough to pass through the evacuating catheter, which is introduced after withdrawing the lithotrite and attached to a suction pump known as the evacuator. To ensure that all fragments have been removed, the bladder may be searched with a sound, or, what is better, inspected with the cystoscope. In children smaller lithotrites and evacuat- ing catheters must be employed, ranging from No. 4 upwards of the English scale. In uncomplicated cases, the patient is up and about again in the course of a week. The mortality is slightly under 4 per cent. When it is impossible to pass the crushing instruments by way of the meatus, the membranous urethra is opened upon a staff in the middle line of the perineum, and the largest size of lithotrite introduced through the wound into the bladder, the stone crushed, and the fragments removed through an evacuating catheter. The wound in the perineum is usually healed before the end of a week. This is known as perineal litholapaxy or Keith’s operation. When the stone is so large and so dense that even the largest lithotrite is likely to fail, the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line as in the last procedure, and the prostate is incised sufficiently to admit the finger into the bladder. A strong straight crushing forceps or lithoclast is then introduced, and the stone broken into fragments small enough to be extracted by the ordinary lithotomy forceps or scoop ; this procedure is known as perineal lithotrity. Lithotomy—“ Cutting for Stone.”—It is difficult to define the conditions which render a cutting operation preferable to one or other of the crushing procedures. Formerly it was largely determined by the size and consistence of the stone, but increased experience has shown that even the largest and densest stones may be crushed, provided the operator possesses the necessary skill and a perfect set of instruments. Within677 LITHOTOMY. recent years the limits of litholapaxy have one by one been removed. The following may be regarded as indications for preferring lithotomy to litholapaxy.—(1) When there is some condition, such as an enlarged prostate, which is to be dealt with at the same time as the stone is removed; (2) when the stone cannot be grasped by the lithotrite, for example, in encysted stone; (3) when the bladder is so contracted upon and adherent to the stone that there is no space for the manipulation of the lithotrite ; (4) when there is a stricture of the urethra which cannot be dilated sufficiently to allow the passage of the instruments required for litholapaxy; (5) in stones immovably fixed in the neck of the bladder. Except in the last of these conditions, the bladder is opened above the pubes—supra-pubic lithotomy. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, the bladder washed out and filled with boracic lotion, and the urethra compressed by a turn of bandage round the penis. An incision is made in the middle line, beginning over the symphysis and running upwards towards the navel, and the pyramidales and recti muscles are drawn apart. Where more room is required, Kocher’s incision, which runs parallel to the brim of the pelvis, may be employed. The pre-vesical fat behind the symphysis is displaced upwards, carry- ing with it the reflection of the peritoneum. The wall of the bladder is recognised by its muscular coat, and an incision large enough to admit the finger is made. The stone is felt for and removed with the scoop or lithotomy forceps, the wound in the bladder being enlarged if necessary. The interior of the bladder is then further explored in case of there being more than one stone. If the prostate is enlarged, its removal may be undertaken at this stage, particularly if the bladder is pouched, as these conditions are likely to favour the formation of fresh concretions. If the urine is aseptic, the wound in the bladder is sutured. If there is septic cystitis, a large drainage tube is introduced and connected with a suction apparatus. Healing takes place in from three to six weeks. Perineal lithotomy is performed when the stone is impacted in the neck of the bladder, or when crushing procedures are contra- indicated by the presence of a stricture of the urethra. The available space is very limited, however, and only comparatively small stones can be extracted by this route. The steps of the operation have been described under the heading of perineal cystotomy (p. 656). A tube is inserted into the bladder through the wound and connected with a suction apparatus. The678 THE URINARY BLADDER. wound heals in three or four weeks. The operation known as lateral lithotomy is no longer practised. Stone in the female is removed by litholapaxy or by supra- pubic cystotomy. Recurrence of stone may be due to failure to remove all the fragments after litholapaxy, to the descent of another stone from the kidney, or to the formation of a fresh phosphatic stone in the bladder. The last is the most frequent, and usually occurs in men over sixty with enlarged prostate, pouching of the bladder, and septic cystitis; in such cases, therefore, it is essential that treatment should be directed not only to the removal of the stone, but also of those conditions that are liable to lead to the formation of fresh concretions. Tumours of the Bladder. The commonest tumour is the papilloma. In its typical form it projects from the mucous membrane into the interior of the bladder as a villous growth whose long .thread-like processes are floated out like seaweed when the organ is full of fluid. The purely innocent variety is usually pedunculated, and is situated in the vicinity of the trigone, and it is common to find the parent tumour with a number of satellites around it, or the entire mucous membrane may be studded with villous growths, suggesting a local contagiousness like that observed in papillomata of the skin. A warty form of papilloma, resembling the cauliflower growths of the skin, is also met with; it is more commonly sessile and solitary, and is more prone than the villous growth to become the seat of cancer. Rehn of Frankfort has observed twenty-three cases of vesical tumour among those employed in aniline dye-works. The outstanding clinical feature is recurrent hsematuria, each attack coming on suddenly without apparent cause, and without any other urinary symptom, and after lasting for a variable period disappearing as suddenly as it came. The period between attacks may extend to months or years. The urine may look like burgundy owing to a uniform admixture with blood, or the discoloration may be most marked in the urine passed towards the end of the act, from the compression of the delicate growth by the contracting bladder. Pain or difficulty of micturition is exceptional, and is due to mechanical blocking of the urethra by clots, or by a pedunculated growth attached near the neck of the bladder. The health does not suffer unless the amount of blood lost is sufficient to cause ansemia. The progress of the679 PAPILLOMA. disease is uncertain, but it is quite common for the luematuria to come and go over a period of years without further develop- ments unless cancer supervenes. The diagnosis is suggested by the history and is confirmed by examination with the cystoscope, a period being chosen when the urine is free from blood. The cystoscope may fail from the view being obscured by haemorrhage, or from the bladder being filled up with villous growth so that there is no cavity to illuminate. In the female, if the cystoscope fails, the interior of the bladder may be inspected with the speculum or explored with the finger. In a limited number of cases minute fragments of the tumour may be found in the urine on microscopic examination. Bimanual examination is rarely instructive in innocent tumours. Treatment.—This consists in removing the tumour, and the best results are obtained when the operation immediately follows upon the cystoscopic examination. The bladder is opened above the pubes, the mucous membrane around the base or stalk of the tumour outlined with the knife or scissors, and removed along with the tumour. The “ caisson ” speculum is often useful. Growths near the trigone are made more accessible by a Petersen’s air-bag or by the fingers of an assistant in the rectum. Ekemorrhage is arrested by irrigation with a solution of adrenalin in hot water, 1-5000, or by sponge pressure exerted directly against the bleeding area. If possible the raw surface is closed by sutures. Small, multiple villous patches may be scraped with the curette. In the female, the growth may sometimes be removed through the dilated urethra. Nitze of Berlin removes the growth in patients of either sex by means of his operating cystoscope ; the portions shaved off by the instrument are left in the bladder to be passed in the urine. Myoma, fibroma, myxoma, and angioma are very rare. Malignant Tumours. — The commonest form of malignant disease of the bladder is squamous epithelial cancer, which may commence as such or may follow on the removal of a papilloma, particularly of the sessile, warty type. The tumour tissue infiltrates the wall of the bladder, causing induration, fixation, and adhesion to surrounding structures. The exposed surface of the growth may become encrusted with phosphates. As the patient usually succumbs at a comparatively early stage to septic complications in the urinary tract, or to obstruction of the ureters and suppression of urine, metastasis to lymphatic glands or to distant organs is exceptional. The clinical features of vesical cancer are similar to those ofTHE URINARY BLADDER. 680 villous growth, but the hsematuria is less abundant and more continuous. Cystitis from superadded pyogenic infection sets in early, and causes frequent and painful micturition and im- pairment of the general health. The later stages of the disease are attended with great suffering, spasmodic contractions of the bladder causing unbearable agony, which is only relieved by large doses of hyoscyamus or the inhalation of a few drops of chloroform on a handkerchief; the chloroform is not intended to anaesthetise the patient but to arrest the spasm. The patient finally succumbs with symptoms of pyelo-nephritis and uraemia. The diagnosis is to be made with the cystoscope, or, failing this, by opening the bladder above the pubes; growths which are palpable on rectal or bimanual examination are usually beyond removal by surgical means. Treatment.—Removal of the disease is only to be attempted when it is strictly localised. The bladder is widely opened above the pubes, preferably by Kocher’s incision. The portion of bladder wall affected should be removed along with the tumour, and as this is not possible in the case of tumours situated in or near the trigone, these are better left alone. Tumours on the anterior wall are most amenable to radical removal. Should one of the ureters be involved, the affected portion is removed along with the growth, and the proximal end inserted through a fresh opening into the bladder. When removal is contra-indicated, the bleeding is arrested, and the patient is rendered more comfortable by supra-pubic drainage, although this does not altogether get rid of the painful spasms. Complete extirpation of the bladder is rarely indicated, because when the disease is so extensive as to necessitate it, it is seldom confined to the bladder. When the operation is performed, the ureters are inserted into the colon. Sarcoma of the bladder is rare, and is met with in children as well as in adults. The clinical features vary in different cases; hsematuria, frequent and painful micturition attended with straining are usually present, and there may be sudden retention or incontinence. Not infrequently the tumour can be recognised on bimanual examination, and the bladder may form a prominent tumour above the pubes resembling the over-distended organ, but on passing the catheter only an ounce or two of urine escapes. Removal is usually out of the question ; the symptoms are best relieved by supra-pubic drainage. Pouches, Diverticula, and Cysts of the Bladder.—Acquired pouches are usually the result of obstruction to the escape of urine, and are met with in the form of hernial protrusions681 CYSTS OF THE BLADDER. of the mucous membrane through the spaces between hyper- trophied bundles of muscular fibres. Multiple small pouches are comparatively common in cases of urethral stricture and enlarged prostate. When of large size and solitary, the term cyst or diverticulum is applied. A diverticulum may be like a hen’s egg in shape and size, or it may be much larger than the bladder, and its wall may be very thin and contain no muscle fibres. Sometimes the urine which stagnates in such diverticula decomposes, and phosphatic stone of the “ encysted ” variety results. We have observed more than one case in which a large diverticulum of the bladder was protruded at the inguinal canal, constituting one form of bladder hernia. The condition seldom gives rise to definite symptoms. In some cases the patient micturates in two stages, first passing clear urine from his bladder, and then, on making pressure over the pubes, expelling turbid urine from the diverticulum. A large diverticulum may be recognised on bimanual examination as a fluctuating tumour distinct from but fixed to the bladder. The cystoscope may demonstrate the existence of a pouch, its situation, and possibly a stone in its interior. X-ray examina- tion, after distension of the bladder and diverticulum with bismuth emulsion, may prove of great assistance. In the majority of cases the treatment is merely directed towards complete emptying of the bladder and the prevention of bacterial decomposition. It is sometimes, however, possible to excise the diverticulum. Cystic tumours related to the bladder but derived from structures outside the organ are represented by cysts of the urachus, which are situated in the hypogastric region between the bladder and the navel (p. 353) ; cysts derived from the prostate or seminal vesicle, which develop behind the bladder and below the level of the recto-vesical reflection of peritoneum ; dermoid cysts; and hydatids. Any one of these may cause frequency of micturition and difficulty in emptying the bladder, and may be recognised on bimanual examination. Disturbances of the Functions of the Bladder—Neuropathic Affections of the Bladder.—The functions of the bladder are disturbed in various affections of the nervous system. Gross lesions of the brain, such as cerebral lnemorrhage, or of the cord, such as may attend fracture of the spine, myelitis, or Pott’s disease, are frequently attended with motor and sensory paralysis of the bladder. The organ is unable to empty itself and becomes over-distended, until the intra-vesical pressure overcomes the sphincter muscle and there is incontinence or dribbling from682 THE URINARY BLADDER. overflow. As this condition, which has been called ischuria paradoxa, predisposes to infection of the retained urine and of the walls of the bladder, the measures employed for its relief demand the most rigid exclusion of sepsis. The bladder must either be emptied at regular intervals—every four or six hours —or a catheter should be tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. In partial lesions of the spinal cord the paralysis may affect the motor functions while sensation is retained, so that the patient is aware of the necessity of emptying the organ although he is unable to do so; or sensation alone may be abolished and the patient passes water unconsciously. In locomotor ataxia the functions of the bladder are some- times disturbed, before the characteristic features of the disease are developed. There may be spasm of the bladder with urgent desire to urinate ; the flow may be interrupted and recommence after the patient thinks he has finished ; there may be difficulty in commencing the act; or retention with distension and drib- bling. There are sometimes neuralgic and colicky pains, or there may be anaesthesia, so that the patient is unaware of the state of his bladder, or unconscious of the urine being passed. In functional derangements of the nervous system, notably in hysteria, the bladder functions are frequently disturbed, but over-distension of the organ rarely terminates in dribbling. A peculiar habit may develop regarding the act of micturition— a nervous incontinence—the patient making water with undue frequency from no apparent cause, perhaps thirty or forty times a day, while during sleep the bladder remains at rest. “ Stammering of the bladder ” is the term employed by Paget to describe a disorder of micturition of nervous origin in which clonic spasm of the urethral muscles plays a part; there is no undue frequency of micturition, but a difficulty in commencing the act, and it may be spasmodically arrested when once started. The spasm is best overcome by the daily passage of a large bougie, which should be left in position for five or ten minutes. Lesions of the rectum and anus in the male, and of the generative organs in the female, may be attended with disturb- ances of the functions of the bladder. Retention of urine, for example, frequently supervenes upon an operation for piles. A feeling of irritation in the bladder, and increased frequency of micturition, without the relief and satisfaction that normally follow the act, may be due to changes in the urine, such as hyperacidity, or excess of phosphates or of oxalates. A disturbance of the nerve mechanism of micturition is some- times met with in men between forty and fifty-five years of age.683 MICTURITION DURING SLEEP. The patient has acquired the habit of emptying the bladder at long intervals, perhaps only once in twenty-four hours ; he is nervous about the act, is unable to make water in the presence of a stranger, and the stream is slow in starting and feeble in character. In some cases the patient is unable to make water except at the same time as the bowels are moved. The condition is apt to go on to overflow and dribbling during sleep or upon exertion or coughing. The sexual functions are usually in abeyance. Physical examination fails to discover any lesion of the urethra or prostate. It is important in such cases to examine the knee-jerks, the pupils, etc., so as to exclude any affection of the spinal cord. The treatment consists in emptying the bladder at regular intervals by means of the catheter, or in having recourse to continuous drainage by attaching the catheter to a suction appar- atus. Blisters may be applied to the lower part of the dorsal spine, the constant current may be employed, one pole in the rectum and the other above the pubes; nerve tonics should be given, and, if there is a history of syphilis, iodide of potassium. Micturition during Sleep—Nocturnal incontinence—Enuresis. —This is a functional disturbance which from its frequency calls for separate consideration. It is characterised by the involuntary discharge of urine during sleep, not a dribbling as might be inferred from the term incontinence, but a normal micturition with a full stream. In the infant, the act of micturition is a purely reflex pheno- menon, and such a slight stimulus as the exposure of the body may be sufficient to set the mechanism of the reflex into action. If, after the age of two years, the evacuation of the bladder is still excited by slight stimuli, which in the normal child would have no effect, the foundation is laid for nocturnal incontinence. The condition is met with chiefly between the ages of two and fourteen, and in the majority of cases micturition is quite normal during the waking hours. Some source of peripheral irritation may be discovered, which may explain the undue irrita- bility of the bladder,—crystals of uric acid in the urine, a tight or adherent prepuce, or rectal irritation such as may result from worms. In the great majority no such explanation is to be found, and the phenomena are ascribed to “ nervousness ” on the part of the child, which may be aggravated by the tendency to dream of the act of micturition, an undue sensitiveness of the bladder and of the micturition centres in the spinal cord, an anaesthesia of the deep urethra, or a want of tone in the sphincter muscles. These muscles are too weak to resist the vesical pressure, and684 THE URINARY BLADDER, the bladder empties itself before the patient awakes, or, if it occurs during the day, before he has time to get to a urinal. The condition tends to disappear at puberty. In adults, the occasional involuntary passage of urine during sleep may be a manifestation of epilepsy, and is to be distinguished from the dribbling of an over-distended bladder. The treatment must be selected according to the features of the case. Any such condition as spina bifida occulta, phimosis, or lithiasis should be dealt with. In purely neurotic cases suggestion may prove of service. The general health must be improved by tonics and sea-bathing. The child should be trained to lie on its side, preferably on a hard bed, the foot of which is raised some eight or ten inches. It should be wakened an hour and a half after it has gone to sleep, and if this is not sufficient, at regular hours throughout the night; regular habits as to micturition should be encouraged during the day. If it is believed that the bladder or the spinal centres are unduly irritable, belladonna may be given in increasing doses as recom- mended by Trousseau (ten minims of the tincture thrice daily gradually raised to a dram thrice daily). If there is hyper- acidity of the urine, citrate of potash should be given. If it is believed that the sphincter muscles are wanting in tone, a course of faradic electricity may be employed, one pole being placed in the rectum and the other over the pubes. In some cases improvement has followed upon stretching the posterior urethra by means of bougies, or applying to its mucous membrane a solution of nitrate of silver. Boys are more amenable to treatment than girls, and the most unfavourable cases are those in which the mental development is below the average. Cases are sometimes met with in which there is urgent and frequent micturition during the day, or micturition may take place involuntarily by day as well as at night, and in some cases there is also a want of control over the sphincters of the anus.685 CHAPTER XXXIV. THE URETHRA. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Congenital malformations : Occlusion; Hypospadias; Epispadias—Injuries: Wounds; Con- tusions; Rupture—Urethral calculus—Foreign bodies—Urethritis: Gonorrhoea and its complications; Gleet■—Stricture and its com- plications : Retention; Peri-urethral cellulitis; Extravasation of urine ; Fistulas—Urethral fistulae—Catheter or urinary fever. Surgical Anatomy. — In the male the urethra averages about eight inches in length. That portion of the canal which extends from the meatus to the opening in the triangular ligament, a distance of about six inches, is spoken of as the anterior urethra. It is surrounded by the elastic erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum, and may be sub- divided into four parts : navicular, penile, scrotal, and bulbous. The navicular portion, so called because when distended it is elliptical or boat-shaped, corresponds to the glans penis ; it is contracted at its junction with the penile portion, and also at the meatus, which is the narrowest portion of tire entire urethra. In passing a fine instrument along this portion the point should be kept in contact with the floor to prevent it entering any of the pit-like recesses which are present in the roof. The penile portion is the most mobile and varies in length, and being superficial it is readily palpated through the skin on the under aspect of the penis, particularly when there is a stricture or when a stone or foreign body is lodged in its lumen. The scrotal portion is deeper and more fixed than the preceding portions, but is easily palpated when an instrument is passed into it. The bulbous portion (Fig. 187) is surrounded by the expanded posterior end of the corpus spongiosum, and is fixed to the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. It is the most dependent part of the urethra, is about half an inch in length, and is roomy and distensible ; it cannot be palpated from the perineum unless a rigid instrument has been passed, or its walls are indurated by fibrous tissue. It is the commonest seat of gonorrhoeal stricture, and also of stricture resulting from a fall on the perineum. The junction of the anterior with the posterior urethra is represented by the opening in the tri- angular ligament, the most fixed, and, next to the meatus, the narrowest part of the entire tube. In passing an instrument through it the point must be kept in contact with the roof of the canal, and the handle depressed as soon as the resistance of the triangular ligament is encountered. False passages usually perforate the floor of the urethra at this point.686 THE URETHRA. The posterior or deep urethra comprises the membranous and prostatic portions. The membranous urethra lies about one inch below the lower border of the symphysis between the two layers of the triangular liga- ment ; it is about half an inch long, and is surrounded by the compressor urethras—the “ shut-off ” muscle—which, when spasmodically contracted, may prevent the passage of a soft catheter. An instrument in the membranous urethra is easily felt from the rectum immediately anterior to the prostate. The prostatic urethra—an inch and a quarter in length —is the widest and most distensible portion of the tube ; in the erect Fig. 187.—Diagram of Male Urethra. A, Prostatic, B, Membranous, C, Bulbous Urethra; T.L., Triangular Ligament. posture its direction is almost vertical, with a slight curve concave towards the pubes ; the mucous membrane is extremely sensitive, and when it is inflamed, the nerve mechanism of micturition is greatly disturbed. The urethra is lubricated by the secretion of the glands of the prostate and seminal vesicles, which open into the prostatic urethra, of Cowper’s glands, which lie between the two layers of the triangular ligament and open into the floor of the bulbous portion, and of numerous minute mucous glands opening into the penile urethra. All of these glands become more active during sexual excitement, and their secretion constitutes the chief bulk of the seminal fluid. The examination of a patient suffering from any affection of the urethra includes an inquiry into the history, with special reference to the frequency of micturition, the presence or absence of pain, the sizeHYPOSPADIAS. 687 and force of the stream, the characters of the urine, and the discharge of pus or blood from the meatus. The anterior urethra is accessible to palpation through the skin, and the posterior urethra from the rectum. The mucous membrane may be inspected by the urethroscope or endoscope, which consists of a metal tube through which a beam of light is pro- jected in line with the eye of the observer. The use of catheters has been considered on p. 655 ; the use of bougies and other urethral instru- ments is described with the different diseased conditions of the urethra. Congenital Malformations.—These include occlusions of the urethra, hypospadias, epispadias, and abnormal communications between the urethra and the rectum. Occlusion of the urethra is usually dite to the presence of a valvular fold or diaphragm situated at the external meatus, or just behind the glans, or in front of the prostate. It may be associated with escape of the urine from the bladder by some abnormal channel, such, for example, as a patent urachus. Occlusion of the meatus is usually recognised shortly after birth, and is remedied by incising the diaphragm with a fine knife and maintaining the patency of the canal by the passage of bougies. Occlusion of the posterior urethra usually calls for perineal section. Hypospadias.—The floor of the urethra may be deficient to a greater or less extent as a result of imperfect fusion of the lips of the uro-genital sinus. In the slightest degree—hypospadias of the glans—the urethra opens at the base of the glans penis ; the frsenum is absent, and the imperfectly developed prepuce overhangs the dorsal aspect of the glans like a hood. This variety is of little importance ; the patient may have to lift up the penis by the prepuce in order to direct the stream of urine forwards ; it may inconvenience the surgeon in the treatment of urethral lesions, especially if the urethral orifice is unduly narrow, as is often the case. The second degree is that in which the urethra opens on the under surface of the body of the penis—penile hypospadias. In front of the urethral opening there is a shallow groove lined with mucous membrane representing the roof of the urethra. The penis is curved with the concavity downwards, and attempts to straighten it are resisted by tight, scar-like, fibrous bands on either side of the median groove. The curving of the penis makes it difficult for the patient to urinate without wetting his clothes, and in the sexual act the seminal fluid may not enter the vagina. This deformity calls for surgical interference, and this should be resorted to between the ages of six and twelve. The curve of the penis is redressed by cutting across the688 THE URETHRA. median groove and fibrous bands by a transverse incision deep enough to extend into the septum between the corpora cavernosa. When the penis is straightened the wound becomes diamond- shaped, and its edges are brought together so that they are parallel with the long axis of the penis. The penis is enveloped in gauze and strapped to the anterior abdominal wall. After an interval an attempt is made to make a new floor to the urethra from flaps derived from the scrotum or from the lateral aspects of the penis. To prevent the urine passing over the wound, the urethra is opened in the perineum and the bladder drained by means of a tube (Chiene). It is rarely possible to obtain a normally functionating organ owing to the small size of the penis and to the imperfect development of the urethral muscles concerned in ejaculation. In the third degree the scrotum is cleft, and the urethra opens in the perineum—scrotal or perineoscrotal hypospadias. The appearance of the external genitals resembles that in the female, and the determination of the sex of the infant may be difficult or impossible, especially if the testes have not de- scended. There are many cases on record in which the subject of complete hypospadias has been brought up as a female, and the condition has only been discovered accidentally in adult life. In very exceptional instances it is associated with true hermaphroditism. Epispadias—the reverse of hypospadias—is a condition in which the roof of the urethra is deficient, and the urine escapes through an abnormal opening on the upper aspect. It is rarely met with apart from extroversion of the bladder (p. 657). The urethra appears as an open gutter on the dorsum of the stunted penis. When the deficiency is confined to the roof of the urethra it may be made good by an operation in which skin flaps are raised from the adjacent parts. Wounds.—Wounds of the urethra, apart from those made by the surgeon, are usually the result of attempts at self-mutilation. Those in the long axis of the urethra heal readily without any tendency to subsequent contraction of the tube; those which cross the urethra transversely or obliquely are very apt to lead to stricture and to a urinary fistula. If the urethra is partially or completely cut across, a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder, and the urethra is exposed at the site of the wound by a free longitudinal incision of the overlying skin and fascia. The cut edges of the urethra are then accurately united by fine catgut, the sutures being inserted by Lembert’s method, avoiding the mucous membrane, and the fascia and skin are stitched in689 RUPTURE. separate tiers. The catheter is connected with a suction appar- atus, and full doses of bromides or trional are given to prevent nocturnal erections, which tend to reopen the wound; when healing is complete a bougie is passed at intervals to prevent contraction of the cicatrix. Contusion and rupture of the urethra are by no means uncommon injuries from violence applied to the perineum, as by a kick, or a fall astride a paling. The urethra is driven against the pubic arch and bruised or torn, usually at the junction of the bulbous and membranous portions, and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament is often torn at the same time. In frac- ture of the pelvis a displaced fragment of bone may lacerate the urethra, usually the membranous but sometimes the prostatic portion, or the urethra may be actually torn away from the bladder. Clinical Features.—If the urethra is merely contused, there is tenderness and swelling, with or without eccliymosis in the perineum, and pain and difficulty in micturition, which pass off in the course of a few days. If the urethra is actually torn, there is free hemorrhage from the mucous membrane and corpus spongiosum, and blood drips or flows from the meatus. This may be all that attracts the patient’s attention, or there may be pain at the seat of injury and a considerable degree of shock. He is usually unable to make water and the bladder becomes distended. The perineum is the seat of a tender swelling due to extravasated blood. The patient has sometimes passed water before being seen, without untoward result; or he may have attempted, to do so, the attempt being attended with intense burning pain in the perineum, and extravasation of urine. In cases of fracture of the pelvis in which the posterior urethra is torn, there is considerable shock, but bleeding from the meatus may be entirely absent, and swelling in the perineum little marked. The patient is unable to pass water and the bladder becomes distended. Extravasation of Urine from Rupture of the Urethra.—In the common site of rupture—in front of, or through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament—the urine infiltrates the cellular tissue of the anterior part of the perineum, the scrotum, penis, groins, and anterior abdominal wall. It is prevented from pass- ing backwards by the attachment of the perineal fascia to the base of the triangular ligament, and from passing down the thigh by the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdominal wall to the fascia lata along a line a little below Poupart’s ligament. YOL. 11 — 44690 THE URETHRA. In ruptures involving the posterior urethra, the urine fills up the compartment between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and then extends forwards or backwards according to which of these layers has been torn at the same time as the urethra. If the posterior layer is torn, the urine accumulates in the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, and extends upwards in front of this region into the space of Retzius and anterior abdominal wall between the fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum. In cases left to nature the tissues in which the urine is extravasated become the seat of septic infection, the clinical features slowly merge into those of a spreading cellulitis, resulting in suppuration, sinuses, and urinary fistulae • in some cases death results from septic or urinary poisoning. Diagnosis and Treatment.—A soft rubber catheter (No. 9 or 10, English) is sterilised and passed along the urethra. If it enters the bladder and draws off clear urine, it should be tied in, connected with a suction apparatus, and left in posi- tion for a week or ten days. More commonly it is arrested at the site of rupture, in which case the patient should be anaes- thetised to eliminate the contraction of the urethral muscles, and another attempt made. If this does not succeed, the catheter should be made rigid by means of a stylet or fine bougie, and the point of the instrument kept in contact with the roof, while its movements are controlled by the left forefinger in the rectum. Should these measures fail, it is necessary to cut down on the ruptured urethra—external urethrotomy. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, a large bougie or Wheelhouse’s staff is passed as far as the seat of rupture, and the end of it cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum. The blood and clots are removed by a stream of hot saline solution, and the proximal end of the urethra is searched for; sometimes it is identified by the persistent bleeding from vessels in the wall of the tube, or its recognition may be facilitated by pressing on the bladder above the pubes so as to expel some urine. Having found the central end, a rubber catheter is passed from the meatus into the bladder, the torn urethra is stitched over it, and the perineal wound closed except where a small opening is left for drainage. The catheter is then connected with a suction apparatus. It should be stated that many authors, and among them Guyon, condemn the practice of merely tying in a catheter, on the ground that it does not necessarily prevent extravasation,URETHRAL CALCULUS. 691 and they recommend an immediate external urethrotomy in all cases. In cases seen soon after the injury, we are quite satisfied with tying in a catheter, but it is necessary to keep a watch on the swelling in the perineum, and be prepared to operate if extravasation occurs. In ruptured urethra with fracture of the pelvis, it is often impossible to pass a catheter, and if it does enter the bladder it may become blocked with clots ; it is therefore nearly always necessary to perform perineal section. If it is impossible to find the proximal end of the urethra, and if the patient can stand a more prolonged operation, the urethra is reconstituted by “ the retrograde ” route; the bladder is opened above the pubes, the internal meatus identified with the tip of the left forefinger, and a long probe is passed through it and brought out in the perineum. The outer end of a rubber catheter is then attached to the probe by a silk thread, and in its turn brought out in the perineum, the silk thread is then detached, and the catheter pushed along the anterior urethra until it emerges at the meatus; it is then connected with a suction apparatus. It is rarely possible efficiently to suture the rent in the urethra, the perineal wound should therefore be left open for drainage; the opening made in the bladder should be closed and a drain placed in the space of Retzius. If extravasation has already taken place, perineal section must be performed without delay, and if there is evidence of septic infection, multiple incisions are made throughout the whole area of extravasation, and the cellular tissue irrigated with salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. Urethral Calculus.—A small stone which has come down from the kidney and passed through the bladder may become impacted in the urethra behind the triangular ligament, in the penile portion, or just within the meatus. Stone in the prostatic urethra is described on p. 725. A urethral calculus may be rounded and flattened like a lentil, or elongated and fusiform like a date-stone. In children the impaction usually persists, but in adults violent efforts to pass water frequently succeed in expelling the stone. There may be a history of antecedent renal colic, or the first sign of trouble may be a sudden cutting pain during micturition, with arrest of the stream and subsequent retention, due partly to the mechanical obstruc- tion and partly to spasm of the muscular coat of the urethra. The retention may be absolute, or in the case of a small stone may terminate in dribbling of urine tinged with blood, and later mixed with pus from superadded septic urethritis. If left692 THE URETHRA. to nature, a peri-urethral abscess forms, and may rupture into the urethra, exposing the patient to the risk of extravasation of urine, but more often it ruptures on the skin, and a urinary fistula is found. In exceptional cases the stone does not cause retention, and for a time lies “ latent ” in the urethra. In course of time it increases in size by the deposition of phosphates until it may attain the dimensions of a pigeon’s egg, distending the urethra or lodging in a diverticulum. The stone may be palpated through the skin, or may be recognised by passing a full-sized bougie along the urethra. If the spasm of the urethra is allayed by hot baths, and the patient makes forced attempts to micturate, the stone may be passed. If not, it should be removed, in children under a general anaesthetic, in adults after cocainising the urethra. If the stone lies in the navicular fossa, the meatus is slit downwards, and the stone squeezed out or hooked forwards with a bent scoop or director. If it is in the penile urethra, the best plan is to expose it by a longitudinal incision through the floor of the urethra, as attempts to remove it with forceps by the meatus are liable to damage the mucous membrane and give rise later to stricture. If it lies in the posterior urethra, it may be gently pushed back into the bladder by means of a full-sized bougie, and then crushed with the lithotrite, or it may be cut down upon from the perineum and removed. Foreign bodies, such as slate-pencils or hat-pins, introduced through the meatus by the patient, usually lodge in the anterior half of the penile urethra. The symptoms are painful micturi- tion followed by haemorrhage and a purulent discharge, and the same complications may ensue as in calculus. Smooth bodies, such as slate-pencils, are removed in the same way as calculi, while sharp, pointed objects require manipulations appropriate to the conditions present in each case. The urethroscope and the X-rays may be of service in this connection. Cutting methods are preferable to prolonged attempts to extract the body by forceps, because of the greater risk of damage to the urethra which these entail. In the case of a hat-pin, the head of which has been passed down the urethra until the point has disappeared, the surgeon should force the point through the skin on the under surface of the penis and pull out the pin until the head alone remains in the urethra; the head is then pushed along the pipe until it emerges at the meatus, when the pin is easily withdrawn. Inflammations of the Urethra — Urethritis. — Since the demonstration of the specific organism of gonorrhoea by Neisser,693 URETHRITIS. in 1879, the pathology of urethritis has been rescued from the confusion which existed prior to that date. The examination of stained films of the discharge from the urethra enables us, in the majority of instances, to determine whether the case is one of gonorrhoea or not. In examining a patient who is the subject of urethral dis- charge, it is desirable that he should not have made water for some hours before the examination, as, if the discharge is small in amount, it may be completely washed away by the urine. Where the discharge is so small in amount that it is not seen on inspection of the meatus, the bulbous, scrotal, and penile portions of the urethra should be compressed from behind forwards so as to force what little discharge may be lodged in the urethra out at the meatus. If the discharge is derived from the prostatic urethra, it may not be possible to demonstrate it until the prostate and prostatic urethra have been digitally compressed from the rectum. In the female, the urethra is compressed from behind forwards by the finger through the anterior vaginal wall, which causes the pus to appear at the meatus. Unless the discharge is very small in amount, it appears as a purulent deposit in the urine, and it is desirable to carry out the two-glass test as a routine measure. Urethral pus appears in the first portion, while pus derived from the bladder is most abundant in the second glass and may be confined to it. To differentiate by means of the two-glass test between pus derived from the anterior and that from the posterior urethra, it is necessary first to wash out the anterior urethra until the fluid returns clear; and then, if the first portion of the urine passed contains pus, it is justifiable to infer that it is derived from the posterior urethra. Urethritis of other than Gonorrhoeal Origin.—The healthy urethra does not readily lend itself to infection with ordinary pyogenic organisms. It may, for instance, transmit urine full of pus organisms derived from the kidney or bladder over long periods without becoming infected. When subjected to frequent catheterisation, when a catheter is tied in for a time, or when irritants are injected into its lumen, the urethra may become inflamed and discharge pus, but when the traumatism ceases, the urethritis rapidly disappears. Contact with septic discharges from the vagina occasionally causes urethritis in the male, but this “ spurious gonorrhoea,” as it has been called, appears very soon after exposure to infection, the discharge is a thin muco-pus, there is little inflammatory reaction or pain on694 THE URETHRA. micturition, and the urethritis disappears spontaneously within a few days. In stained films of the discharge various organisms are found, but no gonococci. It was formerly believed that an attack of gout or the taking of certain alcoholic drinks and articles of diet caused urethritis, but this only occurs if the patient is already the subject of a latent gonorrhoeal infection. Gonorrhoeal Urethritis—Gonorrhoea.—The organism con- Fiu. 188.—Gonococci in pus from Urethra. a, gonococci, b, pus cells, x 1000. cerned—the gonococcus of Neisser (Fig. 188)—is a diplococcus, the individual cells being kidney-shaped and facing each other by their concave surfaces. In a stained film of the urethral discharge the cocci are found in the interior of the pus cells, to a less extent in the epithelial cells and in the serum. They stain readily with aniline dyes and are decolorised by Gram’s method. In a recent gonorrhoea they are found in pure culture, but in course of time other organisms make their appearance and increase in number as the gonococci become fewer. Gonococci, while pyogenic in the urethra, do not necessarily lead to the695 GONORRHOEA. formation of pus when inoculated into other tissues such as the synovial membrane of joints or the peritoneum. Methods oj Infection.—Infection practically always occurs during the sexual act, but it may result from contact with gonorrhoeal pus on the seat of a lavatory, on underclothing, bed linen, towels, or sponges. The occurrence of gonorrhoea after connection with a woman who is free from gonorrhoeal infection may be due to the lighting up afresh of a gonorrhoea which has long lain latent in the recesses of the male urethra. Similarly a woman may not show any discharge and yet gonococci may lie latent in the folds of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri, and be capable of infecting the male. A latent gonorrhoea may also be lighted up by alcoholic indulgence, or by the passage of instruments, especially when the urethra is the seat of stricture. Pathological Anatomy. — The cocci penetrate between the epithelial cells lining the urethra, and are taken up by leucocytes, in the interior of which they multiply. The tissue changes consist in an acute catarrhal inflammation with shedding of epithelial cells, and infiltration of the subepithelial layers with serum and leucocytes, and are most marked in the glandular follicles opening into the urethra. The inflammatory changes may extend to all the coats of the urethra and involve the peri- urethral cellular tissue. It tends to be very persistent in the bulbous urethra, and in some cases the cellular infiltration in the mucous and submucous coats goes on to the formation of fibrous tissue, which takes the place to a large extent of the erectile tissue; at a later period, it may be years afterwards, the contraction of this fibrous tissue results in stricture of the urethra. The infection may spread to the prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, bladder, and kidney, and may be transferred to distant parts of the body, especially the joints, tendon sheaths, and endocardium. When suppuration occurs in the lymphatic glands of the groin—the gonorrhoeal bubo—it is usually due to the presence of other pus organisms. Clinical Features.—The incubation period varies from three to five days, and rarely exceeds a week. There is heat and itching about the orifice of the urethra, and smarting or scalding on passing urine, and from the swollen lips of the meatus there escapes a discharge which is at first mucous, but rapidly becomes purulent. As the inflammation travels back towards the bulb all the symptoms become more marked; there is severe pain on micturition due to distension of the sensitive urethra; the dis- charge is more abundant, and consists of thick, greenish pus whichTHE URETHRA. 696 stains the linen. The night’s rest may be disturbed by painful erections—cliordee—the pain being due to infiltration and loss of elasticity in the corpus spongiosum. The acute symptoms usually last about ten days, after which they subside, but the discharge from the urethra usually continues for from five to eight weeks from its first appearance. Towards the end of this period it becomes thinner and more watery, is perhaps only seen in the morning, until finally it ceases altogether; or it may persist indefinitely as a mucoid, milky discharge known as gleet. Second and subsequent attacks of gonorrhoea are often subacute in character, but usually last quite as long as the initial attack. The symptoms of acute posterior urethritis vary very much in different cases; when the mucous membrane alone is involved there may be no symptoms except discharge ; on the other hand, when the imflammation spreads to the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts and to the follicles of the prostate, there are marked symptoms. The discharge sometimes diminishes in amount because it is prevented from coming forwards by the contraction of the compressor urethrae muscle. The most prominent symptoms are a feeling of distension and weight in the perineum, and a marked increase in the frequency and urgency of micturition; the passage of the last few drops of urine may be attended with violent, spasmodic pain, and the urine may be tinged with blood; sometimes there is retention; erections and nocturnal emissions are very distressing, and the patient suffers from symptoms of general illness not unlike those of influenza. If the finger is passed into the rectum, there is increased heat in the anterior wall, and a want of definition about the membranous urethra and prostate owing to inflam- matory swelling. The diagnosis of gonorrhoea is made by observing pus escaping from the urethra and demonstrating the gonococci in stained films (Fig. 188). Difficulty may arise, however, when there is phimosis and the meatus cannot be seen, as the discharge from the prepuce may be due to balanitis or concealed venereal sores. The diagnosis would then rest alone on the demonstration of the cocci. It is sometimes impossible to diagnose posterior urethritis unless the anterior urethra is washed out before the patient makes water into two glasses; if pus is present in the first of these, it must be derived from the posterior urethra. The patient must be warned of the infective character of the discharge, and especially of the danger of conveying theGONORRHOEA. 697 infection to the conjunctiva; all contaminated dressings should at once be burned. Treatment.—The patient is directed to keep quiet, and if possible stay in bed during the first week or ten days; if this is not feasible, the parts are supported by a large pad of wool held in position by closely - fitting bathing drawers. The bowels should be opened every day by saline laxatives, and diluent fluids should be taken in abundance to render the urine bland and to flush out the urethra. The diet consists chiefly of slops ; red meats, spices, coffee, asparagus, and all forms of alcohol being forbidden. If there is much pain during micturition, it is relieved by immersing the penis in hot water during the act. Chordee may call for the admin- istration of bromides or of veronal, and the foot of the bed should be elevated. Any abnormal condition of the urine must receive appropriate treatment, and certain medicines may be given by the mouth with the object of being excreted in the urine and acting on the inflamed urethra; these include drugs of the urotropin class, sandalwood oil, cubebs, sanmetto, or santyl. Local Treatment.—Except in unusually severe cases, in which all local treatment is contra-indicated, great reliance is placed on the introduction of medicinal agents into the urethra with the view of acting directly on the gonococci. The agents most generally employed are permanganate of potash, the various salts of silver, the sulpho-carbolate and the chloride of zinc. Whatever substance is employed for injecting or irrigating the urethra, the patient must make water in the first instance to wash out the pus lying in the urethra. If the patient presents himself within the first, second, or third days from the onset of the urethritis, copious irrigations with a dilute solution of 'permanganate of potash (1-5000) should be employed. For the irrigation, a large glass-barrelled syringe provided with a urethral nozzle may be employed, or a douche-can placed two or three feet above the pelvis of the patient and connected to a urethral nozzle with a suitable length of rubber tubing. Half a pint or more of the solution is used for each irrigation and the procedure is repeated twice daily. Under this treatment the discharge usuallyjbecomes thinner and smaller in amount, and may disappear in a week, and it may be impossible to demonstrate gonococci after the first two or three days. The irrigation should be continued for two or three days after all discharge has disappeared. If the case is not seen until four or five days have elapsed since698 THE URETHRA. the onset, one of the silver preparations such as protargol is preferred to the permanganate. Four to six drams of a 1 per cent, solution of protargol, freshly prepared with cold water, are injected by means of a glass - barrelled syringe provided with a urethral nozzle, under such pressure as will distend the urethra as far as the triangular ligament. The glans is then grasped so as to retain the fluid for from five to ten minutes; the injection is repeated thrice daily and is continued for two or three days after the discharge has disappeared, the number of injections and the strength of the solution being gradually diminished. Unless the local treatment is carried out with reasonable intelligence and care on' the part of the patient, it is better omitted altogether; patients of the hospital class can rarely be trusted to carry out the injection treatment at home. When the posterior urethra is involved and there are acute symptoms, all injections are stopped, and the patient should be confined to bed and the symptoms allayed by sitz baths, and belladonna and morphin suppositories. The treatment of chronic posterior urethritis is discussed with gleet (p. 699). The Continental test as to whether the disease is cured or not is the capacity of the patient to drink beer without causing a return of the discharge ; a more accurate test is to provoke a fresh discharge by an injection of nitrate of silver (1-100) or corrosive sublimate, and examine films for gonococci. Marriage must be for- bidden until every trace of the infection has disappeared. Complications of Gonorrhoea. — Gonorrhoeal affections of the bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, prepuce, inguinal lymphatic glands, joints and tendon sheaths, are described elsewhere. Peri-uretliral abscess is the result of a superadded pyogenic infection of the glands opening into the urethra. When it occurs in relation to those opening into the fossa navi- cularis the local signs are obvious, and the abscess discharges into the urethra or is incised through the prepuce. In the penile urethra the abscess is easily palpated from the under surface of the penis, and should be opened early from this aspect to prevent urinary fistula. Abscess originating in Cowper’s glands is a late complication, and tends to point towards the perineum ; if not treated by incision, it may lead to a urinary fistula in the perineum. Gonorrhoeal pyaemia is a rare condition attended with severe and repeated rigors, and sometimes with endocarditis; it699 GONORRHOEA. is supposed to originate in a phlebitis of the veins of the corpora cavernosa or in those surrounding the prostate. Gleet.—This term is applied to the condition in which there is a persistent mucoid or muco- purulent discharge from the urethra. It is almost invariably a sequel to gonorrhoea, and the term chronic gonorrhoea is sometimes employed as synony- mous with gleet; a gleety discharge, however, may appear in the absence of gonorrhoeal infection. The discharge is scanty and may dry up and gum together the edges of the meatus; it is chiefly observed in the morning because of the longer interval from the - last micturition, and is sometimes only demonstrated by repeatedly pressing along the anterior urethra; it is often impossible to demonstrate cocci in it. If the two-glass test is employed, a small amount of pus may be observed in the first portion passed, and there are frequently “ threads ” and filaments composed of muco-purulent material floating in the urine. These “ threads ” appear to have formed in the ducts opening into the urethra, mainly those of the prostate, and it is always difficult, and sometimes impossible, to demonstrate cocci in them. The condition is chiefly met with in neurotic patients, and its persistence appears to depend, in part at least, on the mental perturbation with which it is so frequently associated. Some- times the patient presents marked symptoms of neurasthenia, complaining of all kinds of pains, itchiness, feelings of heat and cold, and of mental depression, and hopelessness as to the possibility of cure. In our opinion, the discharge and the “ threads ” are derived in the great majority of cases not from the urethra but from the follicles and ducts of the prostate. We nearly always find that during the day when no pus can be expressed from the urethra and no shreds can be demonstrated in the urine, massage of the prostate furnishes a half-teaspoonful or more of viscid fluid at the meatus, and, if the patient makes water, a number of threads are observed floating in it. After the massage the discharge disappears altogether for some days or for a week or more, and the mental and other symptoms are greatly relieved. On examining the prostate in these cases, one or both lobes is found to be irregularly enlarged, and there is nearly always a localised bulging in the central portion of the right lobe, which under pressure empties itself into the urethra, giving the impres- sion to the finger as if it had expressed the contents of a grape. In only a small minority of cases have we found the gleety discharge to depend upon a lesion of the mucous membrane700 THE URETHRA. of the urethra, such as a raw or granular spot seen with the endoscope. The treatment of gleet is one of the most difficult problems that the practitioner has to deal with. The general health must be improved in every possible way and the mental attitude of the patient towards the affection must be combated. As the condition usually depends upon chronic catarrh of the follicles of the prostate, marked benefit is usually derived from massage of the -prostate, and this should be repeated once or twice a week. When definite lesions are found in the urethra on examination with the endoscope, they may be treated by direct applications. The method of instillation of the posterior urethra, introduced by Guyon, is that generally employed. The instru- ments necessary are a soft rubber catheter and a small graduated syringe. One should aim at placing the eye of the catheter just at the apex of the prostate. If the catheter is cut so that it measures eight and a half inches, when it is passed down the urethra until only an inch protrudes from the meatus, its eye will be at the level of the apex of the prostate, and on pressing the piston, the fluid will readily pass into the prostatic urethra. The injection is repeated daily or two or three times a week. The agents usually employed are per- manganate of potash (1-1000), or nitrate of silver (1-10,000). The same measures may be employed when there is chronic gonorrhoea involving the bulbous portion of the urethra; or direct applications may be made to this portion with the aid of the endoscope, nitrate of silver being employed, beginning with a solution of 1-2000, and gradually increasing the strength to 1 per cent. Raw granular patches in the anterior urethra may be swabbed with nitrate of silver through the endoscope. Gonorrhoea in the female is met with in children as well as in adults, and assumes the characters of an acute vulvitis and urethritis. The infection may spread to the mucous membrane of the cervix, of the uterus, and of the Fallopian tubes. Vaginitis due solely to the gonococcus is extremely rare except in children and young girls. The patient complains of a sense of heat and burning about the genitals, profuse, purulent discharge, and of irritation and scalding on micturition; the mucous membrane of the vulva is infiltrated, reddened, and eroded, and there is oedema of the labia. If the bladder has not recently been emptied, pus can be milked from the urethra. When the cervix is affected, pus escapes from the external os, and, when the mucous membrane of the uterus also is involved,GONORRHOEA. 701 there is fever and general illness with enlargement of the uterus, and the discharge is mixed with blood. When the infection has spread to the Fallopian tube, it gives rise to salpingitis and pyosalpinx, and may spread to the peritoneum and set up peritonitis. Chronic affections of the tubes, ovaries, and pelvic peritoneum are liable to ensue, causing prolonged ill-health, pelvic pains, painful menstruation, and sterility. Inflammation of Bartholin's gland is a common complication ; in the posterior part of the labium majus, usually on one side, there appears a tender, hard, clearly-defined swelling about the size of a hazel-nut, together with cedematous swelling of the labium on the same side. When suppuration occurs, the pus usually escapes on the inner surface of the labium, but it may burrow in various directions and form extensive sinuses. Infective material is liable to lodge for an indefinite period in the recesses of the mucous membrane of the cervix, and may thus be the means of imparting gonorrhoea to the male long after all traces of the disease have disappeared from the vulva and urethra. In order to determine this latent infection in women, it is recommended by Neisser that repeated microscopical examinations should be made of the discharge towards the end of the menstrual period; during menstruation, gonococci, if present, are carried to the surface and large numbers of them are cast oft’ in the epithelium of the cervical glands. Another method consists in gently curetting the mucous membrane of the cervix and staining the scrapings for gonococci. Treatment.—The patient is confined to bed and should have frequent sitz baths. Vaginal douches are to be employed \\ ith caution in view of the risk of causing extension of the infection to the uterus. The parts should be swabbed out with cotton- wool moistened with peroxide of hydrogen, and swabs soaked in 1 per cent, protargol placed between the labia. Suppositories containing 1 or 2 per cent, protargol may be inserted into the urethra or into the cervix. If an ab&cess forms in Bartholin’s gland, it should be opened and packed. In the chronic form of gonorrhoea affecting the cervix, the mucous membrane should be curetted, and gauze wrung out of protargol inserted. Vulvo-vaginitis in children is a very common condition, and to establish the gonorrhoeal origin in any given case it is necessary to examine stained films of the discharge; the subject is one of much importance, as charges of criminal assault on young children are by no means uncommon, and they are fre- quently based solely upon the existence of a vaginal discharge.702 THE URETHRA. Stricture of the Urethra. The term stricture is applied when the lumen of the urethra is narrowed as a result of changes in its wall. According to the nature and cause of the narrowing, a stricture is spoken of as spasmodic, congestive, or cicatricial. Spasmodic stricture affects chiefly the membranous urethra, and is due to spasm of the compressor urethrae muscle, excited by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra itself, as in gonorrhoea, or by reflex irritation in adjacent parts, such as the anus or rectum, or it may be due to fright or hysteria. The spasm comes on suddenly and causes retention of urine. The treatment in this as in other forms of retention is first directed towards allaying the spasm by means of hot fomenta- tions, hot baths, and rectal suppositories of morphin and bella- donna. If these measures fail, the water is drawn off with a soft rubber or black olivary catheter (No. 8-10); the instrument is first resisted and then firmly grasped by the urethral muscles, but by steady pressure it can be pushed on into the bladder. Congestive stricture is met with chiefly in gonorrhoea when the infection has spread to the posterior urethra; the lumen of the urethra is encroached upon by the oedematous and congested mucous membrane, and this may be aggravated by spasm of the extrinsic muscles. As it is undesirable to pass a catheter because of the risk of carrying the infection to the bladder, the attempt should always be made to relieve the retention by rectal suppositories and hot baths, or by aspiration above the pubes. Cicatricial or “ Organic ” Stricture.—This, by far the most important variety of stricture, is primarily due to the con- traction of scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, to which congestion and spasm are commonly superadded. The scar tissue results from trauma or from gonorrhoea, hence the two varieties, traumatic and gonorrhoeal. Traumatic stricture most commonly results from rupture of the urethra, the scar tissue being formed during the process of repair. When the urethra has been completely torn across—for example, the membranous portion in fracture of the pelvis—the interval between the retracted ends is occupied by scar tissue, and the urine escapes by a fistula in the perineum. When the rupture is incomplete, the continuity of the tube is maintained by part of the mucous membrane constituting a narrow channel in the centre of the scar tissue. Stricture may also follow on703 STRICTURE. the impaction of a stone or foreign body in the urethra, or on rough attempts to remove the same, and when due to such causes the stricture usually affects the spongy portion, and may be far forwards near the meatus. Gonorrhoeal Stricture.—While a stricture may result from a urethral chancre or a non-specific urethritis, it is in the great majority of cases due to gonorrhoea. The gonorrhoea has usually been a persistent one, or there may have been more than one attack. The scar tissue may be confined to the mucous membrane, or it may involve the submucous coat and the erectile tissue. The constriction is most commonly situated at the bulb, but it may be in the penile portion, even close up to the meatus ; there may be more than one stricture. The scar tissue may be confined to the floor of the urethra, or may entirely surround the tube—the annular or cylindrical stricture ; or it may form a band across the lumen—the bridle stricture. When the urethra has sloughed, the lumen may be entirely obliterated, all the urine passing by a fistulous opening in the perineum. When the scar tissue is very dense and unyielding, the stricture is described as callous; if it yields to dilatation, but quickly contracts again, it is described as resilient. If it is possible to pass an instrument through the stricture, it is described as 'permeable ; while a stricture through which nothing can be passed is said to be impermeable. Secondary Changes and Complications.—Behind a stricture the lumen of the urethra and of the ducts and follicles opening into it are dilated, and pockets or diverticula are formed in which secretions stagnate. Favourable conditions are thus afforded for bacterial development, the mucous membrane be- comes inflamed, and, with or without a breach of the surface, the infection may at any time spread to the peri-urethral cellular tissue, leading to cellulitis, abscess, and sometimes to gangrene. The septic process may involve the wall of the urethra and destroy a portion of it, so that extravasation of urine takes place. It was formerly believed that such extra- vasation was due to the urethra having burst during a violent effort to pass water, but there is no proof of this. The urine leaks out drop by drop, and is added to the inflammatory exudate in the peri-urethral cellular tissue. The bladder frequently shows hypertrophy with fasciculation and pouching of its walls, and this may be followed by atrophy and over-distension. In other cases, as a result of septic infection and irritability of the organ, it may be contracted and of small capacity. The ureters and kidneys show the effects ofTHE URETHRA. 704 backward pressure; the renal functions suffer as a result of chronic interstitial nephritis, and septic infection of the renal pelvis and kidney — pyelo-nephritis and pyonephrosis — is a frequent cause of death. Clinical Features of Cicatricial Stricture.—The first thing to attract the attention of the patient is that he has some difficulty in starting the act of micturition and that the stream of urine is smaller in size and less forcible than normal. In some cases undue frequency of micturition is the first symptom complained of. The act of micturition is prolonged, is attended with straining, and urine trickles through the stricture after the effort is completed and wets the clothing. Twisting or forking of the stream is an inconstant and uncertain feature. A slight muco-purulent discharge from the meatus, due to associated urethritis, is very common, and may have persisted from the original gonorrhoea. The symptoms are greatly aggravated by exposure to cold or by the taking of alcohol, inducing congestion of the mucous membrane and spasm, and this combination of conditions is liable to bring about retention of urine. In neglected cases the symptoms progress, the urine is voided with greater and greater difficulty, the bladder is incompletely emptied and micturition has to be repeated at frequent intervals, and any slight indiscretion results in retention, which, if un- relieved, ends in dribbling from overflow. Septic infection is rarely absent in strictures of long standing, and while com- paratiyely unobtrusive so long as it is confined to the mucous membrane of the urethra and bladder, may at any time en- danger life by spreading to the peri-urethral tissues and causing extravasation, or by ascending to the kidneys. The lighting up of a long standing, almost dormant, infection is frequently observed to follow the passage of instruments or operative interference. Diagnosis and Methods of Examination.—The clinical history is usually suggestive of stricture, but the diagnosis must be confirmed by examination. It is instructive to observe the patient during the act of micturition and to note the condition of the stream. An indurated area of scar tissue in the spongy urethra may be recognised on palpation. Before an instrument is passed, the patient should be in a warm bed, and the usual precautions taken to prevent septic infection. The stricture is first located by passing a No. 10 or 12 metal bougie until it is arrested; after which smaller instruments are passed, until one becomes engaged in the stricture and passes through it, the point being made to enter the bladder. The calibre of the705 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. stricture, the extent of urethra involved, and the number of strictures present may be learned by passing a fine flexible instrument with an acorn-shaped tip; the acorn tip passes through the stricture with difficulty, and hitches against it on being withdrawn. By means of a urethrometer, such as that of Otis, the calibre of the stricture may be accurately measured. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stricture.—The patient should abstain from alcohol and avoid exposure to cold, and the urine should be rendered bland by diluent drinks, the liberal use of Vichy, Contrexeville, or Wildungen water, and occasional courses of medicines of the urotropin class. Intermittent dilatation, the object of which is gradually to overstretch the scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, is carried out by the passage of bougies at intervals of two or three days. In tight strictures, horsehair, black olivary, or fine metal bougies are employed, and great care and patience must be exercised. If the urethra is sensitive and congested, a solution of eucain and adrenalin should be injected beforehand. The pas- sage of instruments is often made easier if the urethra is distended with sterilised oil or glycerine. In difficult cases the entrance to the stricture may be found with the aid of the endoscope. If the point of the bougie catches in the mucous membrane, it should be slightly withdrawn and then pushed on again, the urethra being kept on the stretch by making traction on the penis. In the use of steel bougies, when there is difficulty at the triangular ligament the left forefinger in the rectum controls the point of the instrument, and ensures its being kept in the middle line. It is in this region that “ false passages ” are most often made, the point of the instrument perforating the urethra, and being felt between the prostate and the wall of the rectum. If false passages already exist, dilatation is better deferred for two or three weeks. No force is permitted until the instrument is fairly engaged in the stricture and is felt to be grasped by it. For strictures above the size of No. 5 (English), conical metal bougies such as those of Lister or Chiene are most serviceable. The latter have a shorter curve (one-sixth of the circumference of a circle whose diameter is three inches), and the point is therefore more under control. The amount of dilatation that should be carried out at each sitting varies in different cases; in some the size of 15-17, English scale, may be attained in one or two sittings, in others such rapid progress is inadvisable or impossible. Before the instruments are passed, the patient should make water so that the bladder may not require to be emptied for some hours after, and a hot drink and VOL. II—45706 THE URETHRA. a full dose of antipyrin or quinine should be given to prevent rigors. After the stricture has been dilated to the full size, it is most important that a bougie be passed at intervals, otherwise recontraction is almost certain to take place. These intervals are gradually lengthened till once a year may suffice. If the patient is to pass the instrument himself, he should use a gum- elastic bougie (size 9-13), and should be warned against using an instrument which has become rough, cracked, or brittle, in case of damaging the mucous membrane, or lest the end of it should break off inside the bladder. Continuous Dilatation.—The largest catheter that the stricture will admit is tied in for twenty-four hours, after which it is found to be quite loose, and a larger instrument can then be passed. This “ vital dilatation,” as it was formerly called, depends partly on the exhaustion of muscular spasm, and partly on softening of scar tissue. The method is not free from risk, and in tight strictures with superadded septic infection is liable to favour the development of peri-urethral cellulitis and extravasation of urine. Operative Methods.—The cutting of a stricture may be carried out with an instrument—the urethrotome—passed along the urethra—internal urethrotomy, or through an external wound—- external urethrotomy. Internal urethrotomy is most useful in resilient, valvular, and bridle strictures, especially of the penile urethra, when dilatation fails, or the urethra is so sensitive that the patient cannot bear it. It should not be attempted if there is any peri-urethral inflammation or other septic complication. Recontraction occurs unless a full-sized bougie is passed at intervals of a month or so. External urethrotomy is called for when no instrument can be passed through the stricture, or when the latter is complicated with peri-urethral cellulitis or abscess, fistulse, false passages, or extravasation of urine. It may have to be employed when the less radical measures have failed. In traumatic strictures it is often the only feasible method. Cyme's operation is to be preferred when an instrument can be passed through the stricture. If Syme’s shouldered staff can be introduced, the external operation is at once proceeded with ; if the stricture is too tight to admit of Syme’s staff being intro- duced, it must first be dilated with bougies, or cut from within by Maisonneuve’s urethrotome, the filiform guide of which can nearly always be got to pass. Syme’s staff is then passed until the shoulder is arrested against the face of the stricture; theTREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 707 patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a median incision made in the perineum, exposing the shoulder of the staff; the point of the knife is then inserted into the groove in the narrow part of the staff beyond the shoulder, and made to cut the stricture from behind forwards. A full-sized rubber catheter is then passed from the meatus into the bladder, aided by the linger in the wound, and is tied in. A wooden plug may be fitted into the catheter and removed at intervals to empty the bladder, or the catheter may be attached to a suction apparatus. In aseptic cases the perineal wound is closed by tiers of sutures, and healing frequently takes place without a drop of urine escaping from the wound. In cases complicated with sinuses or other septic conditions, it is lightly packed with iodoform worsted ; and if the urine is ammoniacal the bladder must be washed out several times a day, and the catheter is changed every second or third day, as it tends to become coated with phosphates. If there is such severe urethritis and cystitis that it is unwise to tie a catheter into the whole length of the urethra, the bladder should be drained through the perineal wound by means of Syme’s S-shaped catheter. After the urethritis and cystitis have subsided, bougies are passed at intervals to prevent recontraction of the scar. Perineal Section for Impermeable Stricture.—A staff, of the pattern introduced by Wlieelhouse, is passed down to the stricture with its grooved surface looking towards the perineum. The patient is then placed in the lithotomy position, and the end of the staff is cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum, and the urethra opened by cutting on the groove in the staff. The opening in the urethra being held aside by silk threads passed through each of its edges, the staff is rotated so that the hook on the end of it projects through the opening, and pulled up slightly so as to retract the upper angle of the opening and put the urethra on the stretch. With the aid of a probe-director the lumen of the stricture is then searched for; sometimes it can be identified by expressing urine from the bladder by pressing above the pubes. The director is passed through the stricture, which is then slit open along the floor throughout its whole length. The final steps and after- treatment are the same as in Syme’s operation. If the surgeon fails to find the lumen of the stricture, recourse must be had to the retrograde method, the bladder being opened above the pubes, after the method described in ruptured urethra (p. 691). Resection of the strictured portion of the urethra has been708 THE URETHRA. successfully practised; the cut ends are stitched to each other over a rubber catheter ; or if they are too widely separated for this, an attempt may be made to form a new urethra by means of a graft taken from the mucous membrane of the lower lip or elsewhere. When the gap in the urethra is so extensive that it cannot be bridged, as where it has been completely torn across or where a considerable extent has been destroyed by sloughing, the patient may have to be content with a 'permanent fistula in the perineum. Urination is necessarily performed in the sitting posture, but is completely under control. Complications of Stricture.—Acute Retention.—This nearly always follows exposure to cold after indulgence in alcohol, and is due to superadded congestion and spasm of the urethra. In ordinary cases it is best to temporise by using morphin and belladonna suppositories, and by placing the patient in a very hot bath. In urgent cases the bladder should be aspirated above the pubes, and it may even be advisable to repeat the aspiration rather than to pass instruments in the congested state of the urethra. Conditions may arise, however, in which it is imperative to get an instrument into the bladder; fine tapering metal bougies are passed through the stricture, if necessary under anaesthesia, until it is possible to introduce a No. 5 or 6 catheter, which is then tied in till the crisis is over. The alternative is to have recourse to perineal section by Wheel- house’s (p. 707); or by Cock’s method: the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the left forefinger introduced into the rectum with its palmar surface upwards and its tip impinging against the apex of the prostate. A double-edged knife is then pushed into the middle line of the perineum about half an inch in front of the anus, towards the point of the finger in the rectum, until the membranous urethra is opened. The knife having been withdrawn, a straight probe-pointed staff is passed into the bladder. A No. 14 rubber catheter is then passed along the staff, fixed in position, and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a week or ten days the catheter is withdrawn, and the stricture dilated in the ordinary way. Peri-urethral Cellulitis and Rxtravasation of Urine.—The pathology of this complication has already been described (p. 689). The clinical features are those of a grave infective lesion ; there is high temperature with repeated rigors, and the perineum, scrotum, and penis become greatly swollen, brawny, and dis- coloured. In the worst cases, the cellulitis rapidly assumes the characters of a moist gangrene, and the patient dies of acute septic infection. In less severe cases, there is diffuse suppurationURETHRAL FISTULA. 709 in the perineum and scrotum, extending on to the anterior abdominal wall. When incisions are made there exudes a quantity of foul pus mixed with decomposing urine, and, if the patient survives, extensive sloughs of the cellular tissue come away, leaving suppurating tracks through which the whole or the greater part of the urine escapes. Free incisions must be promptly made throughout the whole of the infected area, and the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line of the perineum to allow of the free escape of urine. Drainage tubes are inserted in all directions, and are washed through with peroxide of hydrogen at frequent intervals. The treatment of the stricture itself is deferred until the septic element has subsided. Peri-urethral abscess results from a localised form of cellulitis, usually occurring in the perineum, and sometimes originating in Cowper’s glands. The abscess tends to rupture both externally and into the urethra, and so to cause a urinary fistula. The abscess should be incised as soon as it is recognised, and a drainage tube inserted and packed round with iodoform worsted. External urethrotomy may be performed at once, or deferred for a few days. Urinary fistula usually result from peri-urethral suppuration, as already described; they are most commonly situated in the perineum, and there may be only one, or there may be so many that when the urine escapes through them there is a suggestion of the rose perforation of a watering-can. The only way to bring about healing, is to divide thoroughly the associated stricture, and in the majority of cases this is most effectually carried out by external urethrotomy. Urethral Fistulae.—-In addition to those met with as a complication of stricture, urethral fistula may result from con- genital malformations, from accidental wounds, from necrosis of tissue following circular constriction of the penis, from suppura- tion in relation to impacted foreign bodies and calculus, from the ulceration caused by syphilis or new growths, from abscess in the prostate, and after operations such as amputation of the penis or lithotomy. The fistula may open on the under surface of the penis, in the scrotum, the perineum, or the rectum, and it discharges urine or a mixture of urine and pus. The patient complains of burning pain on micturition, and of wetting his clothes; and he is usually sterile. The fistula rarely closes of itself, because it acquires a lining of epithelium; when of long standing it may become the seat of epithelioma. Treatment is directed in the first instance to the removal of710 THE URETHRA. any condition which interferes with the flow of urine along the urethra. The fistula may then close of itself, or will do so after being laid open and having its edges pared. In recto-urethral fistula, the respective tubes must be separated from one another by dissection, the mucous membrane of each inverted, and the openings closed by sutures. In 'penile fistula resulting from sloughing of the urethra, it is often necessary to divert the stream of urine through an opening in the perineum before attempting to close the fistula. The edges of the opening are then pared, the respective layers separated by dissection, and like stitched to like, or an area of skin around the fistula having been excised, the gap is filled with a flap taken from the scrotum. The lumen of the urethra is maintained by tying in a catheter. Catheter or Urinary Fever.—Attention was directed by Sir Andrew Clark to a form of pyrexia that may develop suddenly after operations on the lower urinary organs, or even after the simple passage of a catheter. Within twelve or twenty-four hours there occurs a rigor or a succession of rigors, the temperature running up to 102°-105° F., and then rapidly coming down again • the patient is soon well, and remains so until the catheterisation is repeated. By some the condition is attributed to septic infection, a view which obtains a certain amount of support from the marvellous rapidity of absorption possessed by the urethral mucous membrane, and the prevalence of sepsis in all pathological conditions of the lower urinary organs. By the majority it is regarded as a nervous phenomenon, an exaggeration of the slight shivering which may attend the act of micturition in perfectly healthy men. It is certainly more liable to occur in neurotic subjects, and its occurrence appears to bear no proportion to the degree of infection as determined by ordinary methods of examination. Moreover, the occurrence of such rigors can often be prevented by taking certain precautions, which, while allaying nervous susceptibility, could have little influence in preventing septic absorption, such, for example, as keeping the patient warm, the administration of antipyrin or quinine an hour beforehand, and the delaying of the act of micturition for as long as possible after the interfer- ence. The injection of two or three drams of a 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver into the deep urethra is the most reliable method of preventing rigors in susceptible persons. Catheter fever is not to be confounded with the progressive septic poisoning that is met with in cases of advanced septic cystitis and pyelo-nephritis.711 CHAPTER XXXV. THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. The Prostate : Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Injuries— Pyogenic affections : Acute prostatitis ; Abscess; Chronic prostatitis ; Prostatorrhcea — Tuberculosis—Enlargement of the prostate — Pro- statism without enlargement—Calculi in the prostate and prostatic urethra—Malignant disease. The Seminal Vesicles: Surgical anatomy—Acute and chronic vesicu- litis—Tuberculosis. Surgical Anatomy.—The prostate gland surrounds the first part of the male urethra (Fig. 187). It has two lateral lobes, and two commissures —the anterior joining the lateral lobes in front of the urethra and the posterior uniting them behind. The prolongation of the posterior commis- sure upward and backward between the ejaculatory ducts is known as the middle or third lobe. The gland tissue is distributed in those parts of the prostate which lie behind and on either side of the urethra, the anterior commissure being almost entirely composed of muscular and fibrous tissue. The fibro-nniscular framework or stroma of the gland is condensed at the periphery to form a strong, laminated envelope known as the cap- sule of the prostate ; it differs from the capsule of the kidney, thyroid, and other organs, in that it cannot be stripped from the gland tissue. Outside the capsule and intimately connected with it is a thin fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, and between the layers of the sheath, mainly in front, are lodged the veins of the prostatic plexus. The superior surface of the prostate is uncovered by the pelvic fascia, and is related to that part of the floor of the bladder which surrounds the opening of the urethra, and each lateral surface rests against the fascia covering the levator ani muscle. The posterior surface is in contact with the anterior wall of the rectum, while the anterior surface faces the symphysis pubis. The apex points downwards and is in relation to the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. The prostatic urethra traverses the gland nearer its posterior than its anterior surface, is at first vertical and straight, but below the verumontanum it curves forward. It is about one inch in length, and is narrower below than in its middle portion, which is indeed the widest part of the whole urethral canal. Except while fluid is passing, the mucous membrane of the anterior and posterior walls is in contact; when distended with fluid the middle or widest part has a diameter of about one-third of an inch. The posterior wall or floor of the urethra presents a mesial elevation called the verumontanum, and on either side of this is712 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. the minute opening of the common ejaculatory duct, which traverses the substance of the prostate from behind forwards. The lymphatics arise in the substance of the gland and form around it a network which communicates with the lymphatics of the bladder, the urethra, and seminal vesicles. The prostate is composed of slightly branched, tubular glands, lined by columnar epithelium and embedded in a stroma which is largely composed of unstriped muscle. The gland tubules lead into the minute prostatic ducts, which, to the number of about twenty, open, for the most part, on the posterior wall of the urethra. The secretion serves to lubricate the urethra and to dilute the seminal fluid ; and when the prostate is compressed by the levatores ani, as in straining during defecation, it may be forced along the urethra and Fig. 189.—Section of enlarged Prostate, showing intra-vesical projection of middle lobe and retro-prostatic pouch. appear at the meatus as a clear viscid fluid ; under conditions of sexual excitement it is poured into the urethra and may drip from the meatus. The evolution of the prostate is closely related to that of the sexual functions, and begins at puberty at the same time as that of the testes. When the sexual functions are on the wane, the gland is liable to undergo an enlargement, which constitutes the most important disease of the organ. Pain in prostatic affections is referred to the lower part of the back— across the base of the sacrum—and to the perineum and rectum ; when the prostatic urethra is involved, the pain is referred to the point of the penis. Examination of the Prostate from the Rectum.-—The patient should if possible bend over the back of a chair, resting his hands on the seat so that the trunk forms a right angle with the lower extremities. If the patient is unable to leave his bed, the examination is made in the dorsal position. The finger, protected with a thin rubber finger-stall713 PYOGENIC AFFECTIONS. smeared with vaseline, is slowly introduced through the anal canal, gradually overcoming the resistance of the sphincters. In the anterior wall of the ampulla of the rectum, immediately above the internal sphincter, there is a recess in the middle line which corresponds to the attachment of the recto-urethral muscle to the membranous portion of the urethra (Fig. 187). Immediately above this the finger encounters the posterior surface of the prostate, and recognises the firm, smooth substance and symmetrical contour of the lateral lobes, and between them a shallow median groove, pressure on which excites a desire to micturate. Im- mediately above the prostate a firm body is felt, consisting of the posterior aspect of the vasa deferentia in the middle line, and the seminal vesicles on either side, all of these being felt indistinctly because of the firm fascia which passes over them from the posterior aspect of the prostate on to the bladder (Fig. 192). Higher still the finger encounters the comparatively soft and yielding wall of the bladder. The pouch of Douglas, which extends to within half an inch of the upper edge of the vasa deferentia, cannot be identified unless it is the seat of pathological thickening as in tuberculosis, or is distended with fluid. Injuries of the prostate are most often met with as the result of the unsuccessful passage of urethral instruments, and will be referred to on p. 719. Pyogenic Affections — Acute Prostatitis; and Prostatic Abscess.—A gonorrhoeal or other infection may spread from the urethra along the prostatic ducts to the acini and subsequently to the stroma of the organ, resulting in inflammation of varying degrees of severity, which may or may not terminate in suppura- tion. When pus forms it may do so at different points corre- sponding to the individual gland follicles, and these foci may fuse together into a single abscess. The infection may spread along the ejaculatory ducts to the seminal vesicles, or along the lym- phatics to the peri-prostatic cellular tissue, especially that be- tween the prostate and rectum. The condition is most often met with towards the end of the third week of a gonorrhoeal urethritis, and its occurrence is favoured by congestion, induced, for example, by exposure to cold, the rid- ing of a horse or bicycle, or indulgence in alcohol. In mild cases there is merely a feeling of weight in the perineum with pain on micturition and defecation; on passing the finger into the rectum the parts are hot and the prostate is found to be swollen and tender. In more severe cases the patient is decidedly ill and feverish, there is considerable pain, the perineum is so tender that the patient is unable to sit, there may be painful erections, and micturition becomes urgent and unduly frequent, and there may be blood in the urine; not uncommonly there is retention. If suppuration ensues, the pain becomes throbbing in character, and the swelling as felt from the rectum will be found to have increased and become boggy or fluctuating. The abscess usually714 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. ruptures into the urethra, with immediate relief of the symptoms. Suppuration may occur around the prostate, with rigors and symptoms of general illness, and, if the abscess is situated between the prostate and the rectum, the outline of the prostate is obscured and fluctuation is readily elicited; the abscess may rupture on the perineum or into the rectum, or it may open both into the urethra and rectum and so cause a recto-urethral fistula. Treatment.—The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated, the bowels are freely opened, and the diet is restricted to slops. Hot fomentations are applied to the perineum, and the pain may be relieved by irrigating the rectum with hot water, or by sitz baths. If the patient is unable to pass water, a morphia suppository should be inserted into the bowel, and he should lie in a hot bath and endeavour to micturate in the bath ; if he fails to do this, the bladder may be aspirated above the pubes, as it is desirable to avoid passing a catheter if possible ; if a catheter must be passed, it should be a soft rubber one (No. 7 or 8). If an abscess forms, interference may be delayed in the ex- pectation of its bursting into the urethra, but, if the symptoms are urgent, it should be incised from the perineum and a drainage tube inserted. Chronic Abscess of the Prostate.—This is met with in two forms : one the result of tuberculosis, the other in patients who have suffered for a long time from urinary trouble, such as stric- ture of the urethra, and it is liable to be mistaken for an enlarged prostate. Catarrhal Prostatitis and Prostatorrhoea.—This condition is not uncommon in young adults from about eighteen to thirty years of age. Most frequently it is a sequel of gonorrhoea, but it may be met with apart from this as a result of irregular or abnormal forms of sexual excitement. The patient complains of the escape of a clear or milky, viscid discharge from the meatus, which is more often present in the morning than at other times, and may be observed after defecation, especially if the motions are constipated. The patient may also complain of premature ejaculations and of noctural emissions. Digital examination of the prostate from the rectum usually shows considerable alteration in the contour and consistence of the gland. The whole prostate may be enlarged or only one lobe, and the surface of the affected portion feels nodulated and lumpy, sometimes giving the sensation as if a number of good- sized shot were embedded in the gland tissue. After massaging the prostate, a flow of from one-half to two or three drams of aTUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 715 viscid, milky fluid escapes at the meatus, and on examination this is found to consist of mucus and granular phosphates. The condition appears to depend upon a chronic catarrh of the gland follicles of the prostate. Some patients experience so little trouble that they give themselves scarcely any concern about the matter ; others may be troubled more or less in mind, but their health is not seriously affected. In some cases, however, the patient becomes weak and nervous and may present all the features of neurasthenia. The malady runs a long and irregular course, with periods of exacer- bation alternating with periods in which the symptoms are insignificant and may escape notice. In rare cases of chronic prostatitis the discharge is so copious that the term prostatorrhoea has been applied to the condition. In these cases there is a continuous and excessive production of mucus by the gland follicles, and the most striking symptom is the escape from the meatus of a clear, mucous fluid, which may be so copious as to wet the linen; sometimes there is increased frequency in micturition with uneasiness at the end of the act, and there may be slight pain or a scalding sensation. A sense of dulness and weight is often felt in the rectum, and pain and uneasy sensations are experienced in the perineum, thighs, and lower part of the spine. The first essentials in the treatment of catarrhal prostatitis are a regular, quiet life, with abundant exercise in the open air, and avoidance of sexual excitement. Most benefit results from massage of the prostate by way of the rectum. The main object is to reduce the size of the swollen organ and press out the accumulated secretion, improving the blood-supply and stimulating the tissues so as to favour a return to the normal condition. No rule can be laid down as to the frequency of the repetition of the massage, but, as a rule, once in five or seven days will suffice to produce good results. Benefit may also be derived from tonics and moi'al encouragement. Tuberculous Disease.—This is comparatively common in young adults as an accompaniment of tubercle in the epididymis or seminal vesicle. The patient, who may not previously have shown any evidence of tubercle and may appear to be in perfect health, complains of frequent and painful micturition, the pain being referred to the point of the penis ; and the last few drops of urine may be stained with blood. When examined from the rectum, the prostate gives the sensation as of pea-like nodules buried in its substance ; sometimes tender, boggy areas can be recognised, or there may be a fluctuating abscess. The tuber-716 THE PEOSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. culous nature of the lesion is confirmed if either seminal vesicle is felt as a cake-like induration, or if a nodular mass of tubercle is found in one or other epididymis. If a cold abscess develops, it usually ruptures into the urethra and the urine is loaded with pus and debris. Sometimes it ruptures in the perineum and may lead to the formation of a sinus or a urethral fistula. If the primary focus of tubercle in the epididymis is removed, the disease in the prostate may remain latent or may even undergo cure. The treatment therefore consists in removing any tuberculous disease that may be present in the epididymis or testes, and if the condition is bilateral, this may involve double castration. If an abscess has formed in the prostate, it should be opened from the perineum and packed with iodoform worsted. In the absence of suppuration it is rarely advisable to attack the prostate itself with a view to removal of the tuberculous disease. Open-air treatment should be instituted from the outset, and be persevered with whether an operation is performed or not. Enlargement of the Prostate This vague but convenient term refers to an affection met with in men after middle life, of which the most prominent feature is an inability properly to empty the bladder. The most obvious change in the structure of the organ is a diffuse hyperplasia of the gland tissue; there is apparently both a new formation of gland epithelium, in the shape of buds extending outwards from the existing tubules into the surround- ing stroma, and also a dilatation of the tubules into large saccular spaces, which are occupied by granular debris and corpora amylacea. Much less commonly the fibro-muscular stroma is the main seat of the hyperplasia and the gland tissue is reduced in amount and may to a large extent disappear. Transition forms to carcinoma are also met with. When the prostate is the seat of glandular hyperplasia, it not only undergoes a considerable increase in size, but, as the growth takes place irregularly, the shape of the gland may be greatly altered. As it increases in size it encounters various obstacles to its expansion, the chief hindrance to downward extension being offered by the sheath of fascia which invests the gland posteriorly and on either side and is continued at the apex into the triangular ligament. Expansion in an upward direction towards the bladder is hindered by the fibres of the sphincter muscle, which, however, yield more readily than the pelvic fascia, with the result that the sphincter becomes dilated and theENLARGED PROSTATE. 717 prostatic tissue projects into the bladder in the shape of lobulated masses resembling tumours. When the middle lobe is specially involved, it projects upwards as a sessile or pedunculated tumour ranging in size from a cherry to a walnut. When the enlargement of the prostate is considerable, it alters the length, direction, and calibre of the urethra, as well as the relations of the urethral opening to the general surface of the floor of the bladder. When the organ is uniformly enlarged, the urethra is elongated, it may be by as much as two inches, and the intra- vesical projection may surround the internal meatus like a collar. If the enlargement specially affects one lateral lobe, the urethra is displaced towards the opposite side and the transverse diameter of its lumen is diminished. The enlarged middle lobe may project forwards into the urethra, displacing it towards the pubes, diminishing the antero-posterior diameter of its lumen, and exaggerating its forward curve; or it may project upwards into the bladder immediately behind the internal meatus, and, if pedunculated, it acts as a ball valve (Fig. 191). It should be pointed out, however, that an enlarged middle lobe is not necessary for the production of retention. In the rarer cases in which the fibro- muscular stroma mainly is the seat of hyperplasia, the enlargement of the organ is uniform, its shape is preserved, and it is tough in consistence. The obstruction to the outflow of urine in enlarged prostate is rarely con- fined to the internal meatus; it is usually throughout the whole length of the prostatic urethra. The elevation of the pros- tate within the bladder, and the raising of the internal meatus above the general level of the lioor of the bladder, interfere with drainage, so that urine accumulates in the cul-de-sac behind the prostate, and the bladder cannot be completely emptied (Fig. 189). In the tough, sclerosed prostate, the rigidity of the floor of the bladder and of the prostatic urethra prevents the proper opening up of the channel when the patient attempts to make water. Fig. 190.—Section of Bud- tier showing uniform en- largement of Prostate and lengthening of Prostatic Urethra. (From a photo- graph lent by Mr. C. W. C'athcart.) (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)718 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Congestion of the prostate may cause a rapid enlargement of the organ and swelling of the mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra, so that the escape of urine is rendered more difficult, or even impossible, or haemorrhage may take place. Prom the increased difficulty in voiding the urine, there ensues hypertrophy of the bladder, and the interior of the organ presents a fasciculated appearance (Fig. 182). The mucous membrane may then be protruded between the reticulated columns of muscle fibres, constituting cysts, in which phosphatic concretions may be deposited and lead to the formation of Fig. 191.—Enlargement of Prostate, showing deeper And more Capa- intra - vesical projection of the so-called ClOUS than the pouch in Middle Lobe. (From a photograph lent by front of the prostate, and Mr. C. W. Cathcart.) js especially liable to (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) become the seat of stone Septic infection is liable to be superadded, the urine under- going ammoniacal decomposition and depositing phosphates. The mucous membrane presents the changes that attend cystitis, the muscular fibres degenerate and are replaced by fibrous tissue, and as a result of the inflammation spreading through to the cellular tissue around the bladder—pericystitis— the organ may become fixed in its dilated and pouched condition, so that it is no longer a contractile organ under the influence of the will, but an inert sac subject only to the laws of fluid pressure. The kidneys are frequently the seat of chronic interstitial nephritis, and when there is a combination of septic infection with increased backward pressure, they become the seat of pyonephrosis. Clinical Features.—Enlargement of the prostate is compatible encysted stone. Dilatation of the bladder is the result of the accumulation of re- sidual urine; the wall becomes pouched in front of and behind the intra-vesical projection of the prostate, while the urethral opening. rises more and more towards the pubes. The retro- prostatic pouch is usually formation.ENLARGED PROSTATE. 719 with vigorous health and an entire absence of urinary symptoms for a period which may range from months to years, according to the physical conditions at the outlet of the bladder. The earliest symptom is that the patient has to rise to make water, especially during the early morning hours (6-7 A.M.). The urine is slow in coming, the stream is less forcible, and urine escapes after the patient thinks the act is completed. The patient is inclined to strain in making water, although this hinders rather than helps the flow, and the repeated straining may induce piles and prolapse of the anus. At any time the prostate may become congested from alcoholic or sexual excess, from exposure to cold, or as the result of a railway journey, especially if the patient has allowed the bladder to become full; he then finds himself unable to make water, in other words, there is acute retention. The retention is essentially due to two factors—the obstruction offered by the enlarged prostate, and the failure of the bladder muscle; the muscle may have fought and overcome the obstacle over a long period, but some day it fails. The patient complains of pain in the bladder and loins, and of an urgent desire to make water, becomes anxious and restless, strains ! unduly but without success, and the bladder becomes over-distended, so that even when relieved by the catheter the muscular coat may never completely recover its contractile power. Chronic, incomplete retention or stagnation of urine is the condition that results from the patient failing to empty his bladder completely. The amount of residual or stagnating urine gradually increases until the bladder has very little extra capacity, and the patient has to make water every half-hour or so, thus greatly disturbing his night’s rest, and preventing his taking part in business or in social functions. If a catheter is passed after he has made water, and, as he supposes, emptied his bladder, the residual urine is drawn off, and varies in amount from two to ten ounces or more. This condition may merge into incontinence, the bladder being continually filled to its utmost, and the overflow escaping in drops from the urethra. The patient states that he cannot hold his water, and is usually quite unaware that his bladder is full. The general health is now affected, the kidneys perform their work under difficulties, there is indigestion and want of appetite—the result of chronic urinary poisoning—and there is a constant risk of septic infection. Hcemo7'rhage may occur at any stage, but is most frequently met with after catheterisation at a time when the prostate is congested. The blood from the engorged mucous membrane720 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. may pass the sphincter of the membranous urethra and escape by the meatus, sometimes in such quantity as to saturate the clothing ; more frequently it passes back into the bladder and mixes with the urine. If there is much bleeding, all the urine may be coloured and contain numerous clots; in moderate haemorrhage the first portion is bloody, the greater part of the stream is only faintly tinged, and, lastly, when the bladder is nearly empty, it is again bloody as a result of the contraction of the neck of the bladder upon the congested prostate. The patient is often relieved by the haemorrhage, and the prostate may afterwards be observed to have diminished in size. Septic infection of the bladder also may occur at any stage, but is most frequent when there is stagnation of urine in a bladder which is no longer capable of emptying itself. Although it usually follows the use of a catheter, it may develop apart from this. The phenomena may be those of acute cystitis ; more commonly they are of the chronic variety, the chief feature being the appearance of pus in the last portion of urine passed. The urine may then decompose, favouring the deposit of phosphates, and, in course of time, the infection ascends to the kidneys, and the patient succumbs to a combination of urinary and septic poisoning. The diagnosis of enlarged prostate is usually easy from the urinary history, and the condition of the organ as felt from the rectum; in the majority of cases the prostate projecting as a tumour-like swelling immediately behind the pubic arch. It varies in consistence and may be firm and fibrous, or elastic and yielding, according to its nature. If a catheter is passed, difficulty may be met with in entering the bladder, and the instrument passes beyond the normal length of the urethra before the urine flows. When the urinary symptoms are caused by an enlarged middle lobe, the enlargement felt by the rectum may be inconsiderable. The cystoscope is of service in demon- strating the conditions within the bladder, especially when stone is suspected but cannot be struck with the sound, but it should not be used in advanced cases with septic complications. The differential diagnosis from cancer of the prostate will be referred to on p. 727. Treatment.—The treatment to be recommended in any given case of enlarged prostate can only be determined after a full consideration of all the features of the case. When the symptoms are entirely due to the mechanical obstruction at the neck of the bladder, and the health and vitality of the patient are unimpaired, a radical operation for removal of the721 PROSTATECTOMY. diseased prostate is indicated. In cases in which the health is undermined by a combination of septic and urinary poisoning, and the condition of the heart, vessels, or lungs precludes a major operation, all that can be done is to palliate the symptoms. This may be effected by such measures as the cauterisation of the prostate by Bottini’s method, the regular use of a catheter, washing out the bladder, or draining it either through a retained catheter or by cystotomy. Between the extremes illustrated by these groups of cases there are others in which the general condition being still fairly good, the local septic and other complications must be improved or got rid of so as to permit, at a later period, of performing a radical operation under more favourable conditions. The Radical Operation : Prostatectomy.—This may be carried out by the supra-pubic or by the perineal route. It is as yet impossible to lay down definite rules for guidance as to which of these routes should be selected. Theoretically it might be urged that when there is a considerable intra-vesical projection of the organ the high route should be selected, and when it bulges downwards and backwards towards the perineum and rectum, the perineal route is to be preferred. The intra- vesical enlargement can be recognised by examining the bladder with the cystoscope. The supra-pubic route should be preferred when there is something else to be done within the bladder than the removal of the prostate, for example, the extraction of a stone. Before either operation is undertaken, the patient must be got into the best possible condition; the urine should be made as aseptic as possible by the administration of the usual drugs, and, if there is cystitis, the bladder should be irrigated and drained. In the supra-pubic operation, which has been especially advocated by P. J. Freyer, the bladder is opened above the pubes, and the forefinger is introduced to explore the floor of the bladder and to find out the real state of affairs ; if the radical operation is to be proceeded with, the mucous membrane over that portion of the organ which projects into the bladder is cut, or torn'through with the finger-nail. In the common form of enlargement the organ is easily enucleated from its bed, the procedure being facilitated if two fingers of the other hand are inserted into the rectum so as to project its anterior wall and control the movements of the finger engaged in the enucleation. Finally, one or more tumour-like masses are displaced into the bladder, from which they are removed with the fingers or forceps. If the entire organ is enucleated, the prostatic urethra VOL. II—46722 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. is almost necessarily sacrificed, and portions of the ejaculatory ducts and of the membranous urethra may be found on examin- ing the specimen after its removal. The bladder is irrigated with hot water and adrenalin (1-5000), a large tube is brought out at the wound and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a fortnight or three weeks the urine passes by the urethra, and the functions of the bladder speedily return to the normal. It may sometimes be desirable to perform the operation in two stages, first opening the bladder, and after a few weeks of irrigation and drainage removing the prostate. Whether or not the entire prostate is removed in the above operation is largely an academic question. We are inclined to agree with those who maintain that the separation usually takes place within the outermost films of prostatic tissue, and have ourselves observed that when the specimen removed appeared to represent the entire organ, microscopical examination of the wall of the cavity left behind showed glandular spaces belonging to the prostate. So far as the patient is concerned, the operation amounts to complete prostatectomy. When the bladder has been opened supra-pubically and a well-marked middle lobe is found, it is perfectly justifiable to be content with the removal of this by means of the scissors or tumour-forceps, as this will, in the great majority of cases, bring about complete relief of all the symptoms. The perineal operation, which has been specially advocated by French and American surgeons, may be carried out by one of two methods. In the first and simpler procedure, the membranous urethra is opened on a median staff, the prostatic urethra or the fascia investing the prostate torn through with the finger-nail, and the organ enucleated, usually in two halves, by blunt digital dissection. In the second, a curved incision is made across the perineum, the prostate is exposed by open dissection, and brought down into the wound by the use of a suitable tractor such as that devised by Young of Baltimore, and the removal of the lateral lobes of the organ is effected under the guidance of the eye ; in this operation it may be possible to preserve the whole or part of the prostatic urethra and also the ejaculatory ducts. Whichever method has been adopted, a rubber tube is inserted into the bladder and con- nected with a suction apparatus. Cauterisation of the prostate, after the method of Bottini, may be had recourse to when the condition of the patient precludes a radical operation, and especially when the prostate is of the hardTREATMENT OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 723 and fibrous variety, which is little amenable to enucleation. The Bottini instrument—a galvano-cautery shaped like a sound—is introduced into the prostatic urethra previously anaesthetised by local applications, and, the current having been turned on, right and left oblique incisions are carried through the base of the middle lobe, in such a way that the bladder outlet is depressed to the level of the retro-prostatic pouch. An advantage of this method is that the patient is able to be out of bed in the course of a few days, thus diminishing the risk of chest complications to which prostatic subjects are peculiarly susceptible. When operation is contra-indicated or is declined, a good deal may be done to make the patient more comfortable. He should be instructed to have the bowels emptied regularly, to avoid all red and spiced meats, exposure to cold, and sexual excitement. He should aim at emptying the bladder every three or four hours during the day, and once or twice during the night. If the bladder is incapable of emptying itself, the urine should be drawn off once, twice, or thrice daily, according to the amount of residual urine, and, if one of the occasions selected is just at bedtime, a better night’s sleep will be secured. When the use of the catheter becomes indispensable the patient is said to have entered upon “ catheter life.” In selecting a catheter, a soft rubber one should be preferred. When it fails, a coude or bi-coude of gum elastic material may be substituted. The object of the elbow bend, which was intro- duced by Mercier, is to keep the point of the catheter in contact with the anterior wall of the urethra. Sometimes the English gum elastic catheter is useful, the curve of the catheter being made more acute by partial withdrawal of the wire stylette. Treatment of the Complications of Enlarged Prostate.—The occurrence of retention is always a serious event in a case of enlarged prostate, and relief must be given with as little delay as possible. A hot bath should be tried in the first instance; if this fails, a catheter should be passed. If a soft rubber or a gum elastic instrument cannot be made to enter the bladder, a silver one should be used, either one of the sharply-curved, short- beaked catheters introduced by Chiene(No. 10 English scale), or the widely curved instrument known as a prostatic catheter. If. there has been difficulty in introducing the catheter, it should be tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. If it is impossible to introduce a catheter into the bladder, or if it excites so much pain or haemorrhage that it seems unwise to make further attempts, the bladder must be punctured above the pubes. If the urine is aseptic, puncture may be repeated until724 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. the attack is tided over■ if, on the other hand, the urine is septic, it is advisable to open the bladder above the pubes under a local anaesthetic, a drainage tube being inserted and connected with a suction apparatus. In some cases the supra-pubic wound may be kept permanently open, a full-sized rubber catheter, No. 16 or 18, being fixed in position and fitted with a stopcock. This may enable the patient to go about in comfort, and he may acquire a satisfactory control over the urine. A per- manent supra-pubic opening for this purpose was first advocated by Annandale; and the formation of a perineal opening by Reginald Harrison. Haemorrhage resulting from congestion of the enlarged prostate is often beneficial, but, if it persists, recourse should be had to hot baths and full doses of ergot. If these measures fail, a full- sized catheter should be passed and tied in for a few days. Con- siderable difficulty may arise in such cases from the accumulation of blood-clots in the bladder. If these are not got rid of by irrigating through the catheter with saline solution, it may be necessary to use the litholapaxy eva'cuator or to open the bladder above the pubes. Cystitis, in mild degree, is an almost constant accompani- ment of the continued use of a catheter by the patient, and it should be counteracted as far as possible by the usual antiseptic measures. In more severe cases it may be necessary to drain the bladder continuously through a catheter connected with a suction apparatus, or to open the bladder above the pubes. When the infective element has been subdued, the question of radical operation may be considered. Stone as an accompaniment of enlarged prostate, as has already been mentioned, is an indication for the supra-pubic operation. Gangrene of a moist type may attack the urethra, penis, and scrotum, and may call for prompt operative interference. Castration for Enlarged Prostate.—Influenced by the fact that removal of the testes is followed by atrophy of the normal prostate, Ramm and White some years ago recommended castration as a method of treatment in enlargement of the organ. The operation was performed in a sufficient number of cases to demonstrate that the results were remarkably successful in causing the disappearance of the enlargement of the prostate, but, as castration does not necessarily restore the functions of the bladder, and may be followed by psychical disturbances, it has been abandoned. Prostatism without Enlargement of the Prostate.—The occurrence of symptoms similar to those of enlarged prostate725 STONE IN THE PROSTATIC URETHRA. without there being any enlargement of the organ has been drawn attention to, especially by French surgeons. It is believed to depend upon a fibroid change in the neck of the bladder, whereby the prostatic urethra is unable to open up to a degree sufficient to permit of normal micturition. If the bladder is opened above the pubes, the outlet of the urethra, which is normally sufficiently large to admit the index finger, is so con- tracted as barely to admit the tip of the little finger. Apart from operation, the condition may be suspected if the prostate is not found to be enlarged on rectal examination, and if a catheter only requires to be introduced to the normal limit for the urine to flow away. The best treatment is to incise the neck of the bladder with the Bottini galvano-cautery. Stone in the Prostatic Urethra.—Stones composed entirely of phosphates may form in the prostatic urethra. A stone derived from the kidney or bladder may enter the prostatic urethra and be arrested there, and in course of time become enlarged by the deposition of phosphates upon it. As the stone increases in size the prostatic urethra becomes greatly dilated and the prostatic tissue is absorbed; sometimes the stone is lodged in a pocket of the urethra. A stone which is partly in the urethra and partly in the bladder may present an hour-glass constriction corresponding to the neck of the bladder, as is represented in Fig. 186. In a considerable number of re- corded cases there was a stricture in the bulbous or penile urethra. The clinical features are seldom characteristic and are often misleading. There is usually a history of difficulty in micturi- tion, and sometimes there is dribbling, but retention of urine is exceptional. There is sometimes pain referred to the point of the penis, cramp-like contractions of the neck of the bladder, and haematuria. In cases left to nature, the urine decomposes and becomes ammoniacal, and suppuration takes place in the peri-urethral cellular tissue leading to the formation of sinuses in the scrotum or perineum. On rectal examination the prostate may appear to be enlarged, but its consistence is unequal, and, if there are several stones, they may yield grating or crepitus. On passing a metal instrument along the urethra the stone may be struck at once, but, if it is lodged in a pouch of the urethra, it may only be touched accidentally as the in- strument passes in or out of the bladder, or it may not be detected at all. The stone can usually be recognised with one finger in the rectum while a metal instrument is in the urethra.726 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. The treatment consists in opening the prostatic urethra in the perineum, removing the calculi, and providing for drainage. If there is a stricture of the urethra, this must be dilated up to the full size and kept dilated. In view of the great tendency to the re-formation of stone in the prostatic urethra, every effort must be made to prevent alkaline decomposition of the urine. Prostatic Calculi.—The corpora amylacea present in the glandular follicles of the prostate may have lime salts deposited upon them and form stones. The calculi may lie separately, each iii its own pouch, or the intervening tissue may become absorbed and the calculi come to lie in a cyst-like cavity which may or may not communicate with the urethra. In colour they are brown or black, with a smooth, polished surface, and, when a number of them lie in a single cavity, they are faceted. They are commonly situated in that part of the prostate which lies behind the urethra, and, if ulceration takes place, the cavity in which they lie opens into the urethra, and from the access of urine there is deposit of phosphates, and sooner or later suppuration. Symptoms are usually wanting until ulceration has taken place into the urethra, when the patient complains of discharge from the urethra, pain at the end of micturition referred to the point of the penis, and it may be hsematuria. In advanced cases the symptoms are similar to stone in the prostatic urethra, and there may be the formation of an abscess and of sinuses or fistulm in the perineum. A diagnosis can usually be made with one finger in the rectum and a metal instrument in the urethra. When there is a fistula in the perineum it may be possible to sti'ike the stone on passing a probe. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as for stone in the prostatic urethra. Malignant Disease. — Cancer of the prostate is not un- commonly met with after middle life, either apart from or as a later development of simple enlargement. The first symptoms resemble those of simple enlargement, but the progress of the disease is usually more rapid. In some cases there is a dull pain in the supra-pubic region, and pain in the urethra referred to the end of the penis or to the perineum; sometimes the pain shoots down the lower extremities, and especially along the line of the sciatic nerve on one or other side. Hsematuria is rarely a prominent symptom, but the escape of blood or of bloody mucus from the urethra, when it occurs apart from micturition and from the passage of instruments, is very significant. In some cases retention is the first symptom observed. OnMALIGNANT DISEASE. 727 rectal examination the prostate is found to be irregularly en- larged and very hard in consistence. The diagnosis from innocent enlargement is to be made chiefly from the more rapid development and progress of the dysuria, the hardness of the swelling, and its unequal distribution as felt from the rectum. A radical operation, consisting in the removal of the entire prostate, the seminal vesicles, the vasa deferentia, and the trigone of the bladder, has been practised by Young of Baltimore. In the majority of cases it is only possible to relieve the symptoms by opening the bladder above the pubes and establish- ing continuous drainage. While this may give great relief for a period of several months, the final stages of the disease are usually attended with great suffering, owing to recurrent agonising spasms of the neck of the bladder. Large doses of hyoscyamus, or a few inhalations of chloroform vapour on a handkerchief, inhibit the spasm if taken as soon as it commences. If the rectum becomes obstructed, it may be necessary to per- form colostomy. A latent form of cancer is sometimes met with in the prostate, and may give rise to multiple secondary growths, especially throughout the skeleton, which may present the features of cancerous osteo-malacia (Recklinghausen). Sarcoma may originate in the prostate—sometimes in boys— and may in a short time attain a very considerable size, filling up the bladder and projecting above the pubes; the symptoms may be relieved by a supra-pubic cystostomy. The Seminal Vesicles. Surgical Anatomy.—The seminal vesicles are oblong, flattened, nodular bodies which lie above and behind the prostate, against the base of the bladder, to which they are loosely attached by a small quantity of connective tissue (Fig. 192). The long axes run in a plane directed downwards and forwards so that the two vesicles converge at their lower ends and meet at the base of the prostate. The upper, broader end of each is covered by the recto-vesical reflection of the peritoneum, and lies in close relationship with the ureter. The lower end is tubular, and towards its mesial aspect is the terminal portion of the vas deferens, with which it joins to form the ejaculatory duct, which opens on the floor of the prostatic urethra. The vesicles, which serve as a store- house for the spermatic fluid, are lined with columnar epithelium, secreting an opalescent fluid which nourishes the spermatozoa728 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. during their sojourn in the vesicle. The seminal fluid is ejected during the sexual act into the posterior urethra by the contrac- tion of the muscular fibres in the wall of the vesicles, acting in unison with those of the prostate. The examination of the vesicles is best made with the patient stand- ing leaning over a chair in the attitude already described for the examination of the prostate. The vesicles are more easily reached if the bladder is full. The vesicles are not easily identified by the finger on rectal examination unless they are distended with fluid, or indurated by inflammation or tuberculous disease. Ureter Cowper's glands Fig. 192.—Base of Bladder, showing relations of Seminal Vesicles to Prostate, Vas deferens, and Ureters. Inflammation—Vesiculitis.—This usually results from the extension of gonorrhoeal infection from the posterior urethra; gonococci alone may be present, or they may be associated with other pyogenic organisms. Both vesicles are commonly involved. In acute vesiculitis the urethral discharge ceases, there is considerable fever, with pain and tenderness above Poupart’s ligament, rendering the patient unable to go about. There is pain on micturition and defecation, and there may be a good deal of urgency as well as frequency of micturition ; the patient is wakened by painful erections. Rectal examination reveals a hot, throbbing, tender swelling in the position of the seminal vesicle on one or both sides. Resolution usually occurs with a729 THE SEMINAL VESICLES. free discharge of pus into the urethra, most of the pus escaping with the urine; rarely an abscess forms in the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, and still more rarely the inflammation spreads to the peritoneum, and sets up a local or general peritonitis. The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is raised. Pain is relieved by anodyne suppositories, by repeated hot-water enemata, and by poultices applied to the perineum. In gonorrhoeal cases the local treatment of the urethra should be suspended. In chronic vesiculitis, which may be a sequel of the acute variety or may develop insidiously, the vesicle becomes distended with fluid ; its walls become sclerosed, and granulations which bleed readily may form on the mucous membrane. The clinical features resemble those of the acute variety, but are less marked. Pain is complained of after exertion, especially on horseback or cycle, after sexual excitement or the passage of instruments. In some cases there is a sensation of pain, weight, or discomfort referred to the penis, testicles, or scrotum, or of pains in the loin and thighs, described as lumbago or sciatica. There may be a persistent discharge of clear fluid from the urethra, especially after straining at stool ; the patient is often depressed and melancholy ; he broods over his troubles, and is apprehensive of his sexual functions. It is often difficult to differentiate this condition from prostatic catarrh, and the diagnosis is only made after rectal examination; the distended and tender seminal vesicle is felt with the finger, and on pressing over it a milky, muco-purulert, or blood-stained fluid may escape from the urethra. The treatment consists in employing measures directed to improve the general and particularly the mental health, such as plain living, open-air exercise, tonics, with the change of air and scene obtained by a sea voyage. Eugene Fuller recommends the procedure called “ stripping the vesicles,” which consists in emptying the distended sacs by stroking the vesicles in a down- ward direction with the tip of the forefinger introduced into the rectum. The procedure is repeated once a week or once a fortnight. The presence in the vesicle of faceted calculi composed of phosphate of lime may aggravate the symptoms of chronic vesiculitis, and render the condition most persistent. The calculi should be removed through an incision in the perineum. Tuberculous disease is occasionally met with in young adults in association with tubercle in the prostate and epididymis.730 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. The disease is chronic and painless, and is only recognised on rectal examination; the vesicle is so thickened that it resembles a solid, cake-like mass, and is not at all tender on pressure. A cold abscess may form and burrow in various directions, and tuberculous peritonitis is an occasional complication. Prognosis and treatment are influenced by the same con- siderations as in tuberculosis of the prostate. Surgical measures directed to the vesicular disease are rarely called for. When an abscess has formed it is reached by the perineal route.731 CHAPTER XXXVI. THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. The Scrotum—Injuries — Diseases: Acute cellulitis and gangrene; Eczema and prurigo; Elephantiasis; Lymph-scrotum; (Edema—• Scrotal fistulse and sinuses—Tumours. The Testis and Epi- didymis—Anatomy—Castration—Congenital abnormalities : Abnor- malities in transit of testis — Injuries — Torsion of the spermatic cord — Inflammatory affections : Acute epididymitis and orchitis ; Varieties; Tuberculosis; Syphilitic affections—Tumours: Varieties — Hydrocele of cord — Tumours of cord—-Varicocele — Neuralgia testis—Atrophy. The Tunica Vaginalis—Hydrocele : Varieties — Hasmatocele. The Penis — Malformations — Paraphimosis— In- juries — Inflammatory affections — Preputial calculi — Tumours — Sterility and Impotence. The Scrotum. Surgical Anatomy.—The skin of the scrotum is thin and pigmented, and contains numerous sebaceous glands. It is rendered contractile by the presence in its deeper layers of a considerable quantity of non-striped muscular tissue—the dartos muscle. The skin and dartos together foim a single sac, which is divided by a mesial septum or raphe into two com- partments, each of which contains one of the testes and the corresponding spermatic cord. Injuries.—All forms of wounds are met with in the scrotum. In lacerated wounds the tunica vaginalis may be opened and the testis prolapsed. In incised wounds, when primary union is aimed at, the stitches must be inserted with great care, as the dartos muscle tends to invert the edges. It is of great importance to arrest all bleeding and to provide for drainage. Contusions of the scrotum may be followed by extensive infiltration of the subcutaneous connective tissue with blood, giving rise to a dark purple or blackish discoloration, which may be confined to one side of the scrotum, or may involve both sides and extend to the perineum, penis, groin, and anterior abdominal wall. Frequently a localised hcematoma results and forms a tense,732 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. glistening, black or violet-coloured swelling, which is semi-solid in consistence, and yields the peculiar soft, crepitant sensation characteristic of blood-clot. The testis, which usually lies below and behind the scrotal swelling, is found to move independently of it—a point which serves to distinguish a Ineinatoma of the scrotum from a hamiatocele of the tunica vaginalis. Rest in bed, the application of warm fomentations and of support to the scrotum, are the chief measures employed, and when the patient gets up he should wear a suspensory bandage. Diseases.—Acute Cellulitis and Gangrene.—The most im- portant form of acute inflammation of the scrotum is that which occurs in association with peri-urethral cellulitis as a complication of stricture (p. 708). A similar condition occurs apart from stricture, the infection taking place either from an abrasion of the skin or from the blood-stream. All the signs of diffuse suppurative cellulitis are present (vol. i. p. 56). The process may spread to the penis, the groin, or the anterior abdominal Avail, and considerable portions of the scrotum may slough, exposing the testes. The testes, also, may slough, but as a rule after the inflammation subsides they are covered over with granulations, and the rapidity and completeness with which cicatrisation takes place under these conditions is often remarkable. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed Avith the pelvis and scrotum elevated, and have antiseptic fomentations applied. Suppuration and gangrene can sometimes be prevented by making several free, longitudinal incisions through the skin and dartos. Such incisions are attended with comparatively little bleeding, but a copious oozing of inflammatory exudate usually continues for some time. When gangrene threatens or has actually taken place, the incision should be carried through the discoloured patches. Charcoal poultices are useful in promoting the separation of the sloughs. As the sloughs separate they should be clipped away with scissors, and the raw surfaces covered with an antiseptic dressing. It is seldom necessary to have recourse to plastic operations or skin grafting in these conditions. Eczema and prurigo of the scrotum, perineum, and thighs are sometimes induced by urine dribbling over the parts in patients suffering from incontinence of urine or from urinary fistulse. A chronic form of eczema frequently affects the scrotum in chimney sweepers and in paraffin workers, and is liable to become the starting-point of cancer. The scrotum and adjacent parts are733 THE SCROTUM. frequently the seat of secondary syphilitic eruptions which usually assume a moist character. Elephantiasis of the scrotum is common among natives in certain tropical countries, but is rarely met with in Europeans. The condition is due to lymphatic oedema and overgrowth of the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue. It usually follows upon repeated attacks of erysipelatous inflammation, causing obstruc- tion of the lymphatics of the scrotum. In many cases the lymphatic obstruction is attributable to the presence in the vessels of the fllaria sanguinis hominis. The extent to which the scrotum may become enlarged, and the way in which the penis is completely buried in the swelling, are illustrated in Fig. 193. The treatment consists in isolating the penis and testes by dissection and folding them up over the pubes; an elastic ligature is then applied round the base of the scrotum to control haemorrhage, and the hypertrophied tissue removed with an amputa- ting knife. The tourniquet is then removed, thehamior- rhage arrested, and de- nuded parts covered in. In the condition known as lymph-scrotum the lym- phatics are dilated and varicose, the scrotum ue- comes enlarged and nodu- lar, and from its surface there oozes at intervals a milky fluid composed of lymph and chyle. It is frequently associated with the presence of the fllaria sanguinis hominis in the lymphatics (vol. i. p. 315). (Edema of the scrotum is often met with in general dropsy from cardiac or renal disease. When the oedema spreads to the penis this organ may assume a peculiar twisted appearance—the “ ram’s horn penis ”—and the passage of urine may be impeded. Scrotal fistulas and sinuses are usually due to the bursting of abscesses in connection with tuberculous disease of the testis, or with stricture or stone in the urethra, and in the latter case urine may escape from the fistulae. Tumours, such as lipoma, fibroma, angioma, and sarcoma are Fig. 193.—Tropical Elephantiasis of the Scrotum in a Native of Samoa.THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 734 so rare in the scrotum that they need only be mentioned. Sebaceous cysts are frequently met with; they are usually near the raphe, are multiple, and tend to undergo calcification. Dermoid cysts have also been met with in the raphe. Epithelioma is induced by the prolonged irritation of such substances as coal-tar, paraffin, or soot. At one time the disease was comparatively common among chimney sweepers in England, and was known as “chimney-sweep’s cancer,” but improved methods of cleaning chimneys and greater attention to personal cleanliness have ren- dered it comparatively rare. In the paraffin shale districts of Scot- land the condition is frequently met with as a sequel to paraffin eczema, and is known as “paraffin cancer” (Fig. 194). It may begin as a scaly patch, a wart, or a horny excrescence on the skin; less fre- quently as a cauliflower-like papil- loma. The disease progresses slow- ly, and may last for several years before ulceration takes place. In course of time it gradually assumes the characters of an ordinary epi- thelioma. The inguinal glands are not implicated till late in the disease. The treatment consists in excising the growth together with a considerable area of the scrotum beyond it, as well as the glands in the groin. Fig. 194. — Paraffin Cancer of Scrotum in a shale-worker, ait. 60. The Testis and Epididymis. Surgical Anatomy.—The secretory portion of the testis (Fig. 195) con- sists of a mass of convoluted seminiferous tubules held together by a quantity of loose connective tissue. The whole gland is enclosed in a firm, fibrous capsule—the tunica albuginea—which is specially thick and strong at the posterior part, forming there the body of Highmore, from which numerous septa radiate to divide the gland into a series of compartments. The spermatozoa, which are formed from the epithelium lining the seminiferous tubules, leave the testis by the vasa efferentia and enter the epididymis. This structure is composed of a highly convoluted tube the coils of which are bound together by dense connective tissue. It lies on the posterior aspect of the body of the testis, and is divisible into three portions : an upper broad, rounded portion—the globus major or head ; a narrower, intermediate portion—the body ; and a lower, pointed portion—the globus minor or tail. The vas deferens or excretory duct of the testis passes from the globus minor along the back of the testis and to the inner side of the ejhdidymis. It joins the other elements of the spermatic cord at the upper end of the735 THE TESTIS AND EPIDIDYMIS. Spermatic artery Pampiniform plexus epididymis, and after traversing the inguinal canal and entering the internal abdominal ring, turns downwards into the pelvis. After running along the side of the bladder, it reaches the base of the prostate gland (Fig. 192), and is there joined by the duct from the corresponding seminal vesicle, the two forming the common ejaculatory duct, which, after travers- ing the prostate gland, opens into the floor of the prostatic urethra. The spermatic cord extends from the testis to the internal abdominal ring. It is made up of the vas deferens — which lies posteriorly and is accompanied by the small artery to the vas ; the spermatic artery, which lies in front of the vas, and the cremasteric artery, which ramifies in the superficial structures of the cord. The veins of the cord are arranged in two bundles, the larger of which—the pampiniform plexus—accompanies the spermatic artery, while the smaller lies farther back and ac- companies the artery to the vas. The cord also contains the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, twigs from the sympathetic, and numerous lymphatics. These vari- ous elements are held together by a quantity of connective tissue, and are enclosed in the coverings of the cord. The coverings of the testis and cord are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall during the tran- sit of the testis: the inter-columnar fascia, a fibrous sheath prolonged from the edges of the external ab- dominal ring ; the cremaster muscle and fascia, composed of loops of muscular tissue prolonged from the lower, free edge of the internal oblique ; and the infundibuliform fascia, a funnel-shaped process con- tinuous with the margins of the internal abdominal ring. The testis has, in addition, a serous covering—the tunica vaginalis—originally derived from the peritoneum ; one layer—the visceral—covers the outer aspect of the testis ; the other—the parietal—lines the inner aspect of the infundibuliform fascia. Between the two layers is a serous space, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Removal of the Testes—Castration.—As this operation is called for in various affections of the testes it may be described here. If the skin of the scrotum is intact, and is not involved in the testicular disease, the incision, about two inches long, is made in the line of the inguinal canal, about a finger’s breadth above the inner portion of Poupart’s ligament, exposing the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the external abdominal ring. The coverings of the cord—inter- columnar fascia, cremaster, and infundibuliform fascia—are divided, and the spermatic cord exposed. The testis is pulled out of the scrotum, the vas deferens separated from the other constituents of the cord and Globus minor Fig. 195.—Testis, Epididymis, and Spermatic Cord.THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 736 divided, the vessels secured with forceps and ligatured separately, and the testis removed. If the cord is invaded by the disease, the inguinal canal is opened up by splitting the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the constituents secured at the internal abdominal ring. The canal is then repaired and the external ring closed. If all bleeding is arrested it is seldom necessary to drain the wound, but if this is considered advisable the tube should be inserted through a small opening at the lowest part of the scrotum. When the scrotum is involved, and particularly when there are sinuses, or a fungus testis, the affected portion must be included between semi- lunar incisions and the ellipse of skin removed along with the testis. Congenital Abnormalities.—Development. — The testis is developed from a mass of embryonic tissue — the genital eminence—which lies in front and to the inner side of the Wolffian body. As the genital eminence increases in size the Wolffian body diminishes and ultimately becomes the epididymis, its duct—the Wolffian duct—becoming -the vas deferens. The testis, epididymis, and vas are therefore developed from three separate and distinct structures. Hence it comes that any one or all of them may be congenitally absent. In the foetus the testis and epididymis, separated from one another by a narrow sulcus, lie in the extra-peritoneal tissue below and behind the permanent kidney. The Wolffian body is furnished with a fold of peritoneum, which eventually becomes the mesorchium, in which run the spermatic vessels. As the foetus increases in length the space between the kidney and the testis is increased, and by the end of the sixth month the testis has come to lie near the brim of the pelvis. The next stage in development is known as the transit or descent of the testis. During the seventh and eighth months the testis passes along the inguinal canal and through the external abdominal ring, and by the middle of the ninth month it has usually reached the bottom of the scrotum. Considerable differ- ence of opinion exists as to how this transit is brought about, but it is generally conceded that the structure known as the guher- naculwm testis plays an important part in the process. This structure is composed of a central fibrous cord, surrounded by muscular fibres derived from the layers of the abdominal wall, and a tubular sheath of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis. Above, the gubernaculum is attached to the testis, the epididymis, and the vas deferens as they lie on the brim of the pelvis. Its lower attachments are numerous and widespread, the strongest and most important being—(1) to the lower margins of the abdominal muscles in the region of the inguinal canal; (2) to the front of the pubes; (3) to the deep fascia of Scarpa’s737 DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. triangle near the saphenous opening; (4) to the perineum close to the anus; and (5) to the bottom of the scrotum. It is believed that the transit of the testis is largely due to the traction made upon it by the contractile tissue of the guber- naculum, and particularly by that band which passes to the bottom of the scrotum in relation to the processus vaginalis. When the action of this band predominates the testis passes to its normal position in the scrotum. It may happen, however, that one of the other bands controls the movement of the testis so that it passes into some abnormal position, and constitutes one of the varieties of ectopia testis to be presently described. In considering the congenital abnormalities of the testis, it is necessary to distinguish between those that are due to inter- ference with the development of the gland and its efferent ducts, and those related to its transit from the abdomen to the scrotum. Abnormalities in Development.—The occurrence of more than two testes (polyorchism) is exceedingly rare. The existence of only one testis (monorchism) and the absence of both (anorchism) are also very rare abnormalities, and can -only be diagnosed with certainty by dissection. In some cases the epididymis and vas deferens are normally developed while the body of the testis is absent. In a few cases of retained testis the two glands have been found to be fused (synorcliism). Abnormalities in the Transit of the Testis.—The descent of the testis may be retarded, the child being born with one or both glands still within the abdomen or in the inguinal canal. In the course of a few weeks or months, or it may be not till puberty is approaching, the testes pass on and reach their normal position in the scrotum. In other cases one or both testes are permanently retained within the abdominal cavity (cryptorchism), and may lie either in their original position below the kidney, or in the iliac fossa close to the internal abdominal ring. A retained testis is usually adherent to the peritoneum, and is not palpable through the abdominal parietes. When situated at the brim of the pelvis, however, it may be possible to elicit testicular sensation on making firm pressure over it. When the gland becomes arrested at any point in its passage along the inguinal canal, the term imperfectly descended testis is applied. This is the most common of the congenital defects. It is sometimes found that the testis enjoys a fairly wide range of movement, being at one time within the internal abdominal ring, and at another well down the canal (Fig. 196). In some cases the arrest of the organ seems to be due to shortness of the VOL. II—47738 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. spermatic cord, while in others the cord passes beyond the testis and hangs as a loop in the scrotum. Sometimes the testis leaves its normal track altogether and comes to rest in some abnormal position, such as the perineum, the groin, the front of the pubes, or on the anterior abdominal wall. These abnormalities constitute the various forms of mis- placed testis or ectopia testis. It is believed that the testis in these conditions is either dragged into its abnormal position by undue contraction of one or other of the fasciculi of the guber- naculum testis, or that it is pushed there by a hernia coming down behind it. The most common variety of ectopia is the perineal, in which the testis lies in a pouch beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia a little in front and to one side of the anus. The gland is surrounded by its tunica vaginalis, and the epididymis and cord can usually be felt lying to its outer side. In the pubic form, the testis lies under the skin of the dorsum of the penis in front of the pubic bone ; in the crural form, in the fold close to the saphenous on the surface of the Fig. 196.—Retained Testis on left side, and im- perfectly descended Testis on right, in a boy, set. 13. The right testis forms a swelling in the line of the inguinal canal. The scrotum is empty and contracted. between opening : the scrotum and the groin and in the abdominal form, aponeurosis of the external oblique. Clinical Features.—These various abnormalities are usually unilateral, and occur on the right side more frequently than on the left. The scrotum on the affected side is found to be empty and is usually smaller than normal (Fig. 196). The processus vaginalis is usually present in the scrotum although the testis has not descended, and it may be occupied by omentum or intestine, constituting a congenital hernia. In cases of im- perfectly descended and of misplaced testis the gland can be recognised by palpation, and it may be possible by manipulation739 IMPERFECTLY DESCENDED TESTIS. to push it back into the abdomen or down into the scrotum. It is usually smaller and softer than normal, and testicular sensation is present. In some cases the chief complaint is of neuralgic pain referred to the line of the cord; and sometimes there are attacks of severe pain probably associated with a partial torsion of the cord. In the majority of cases the gland is functionless, its secreting elements not having developed. It has been shown experimentally by Griffiths that the testes do not develop per- fectly unless they descend into the scrotum—hence the importance of treating these conditions in early life. A number of cases are on record, however, in which the testes, although undescended, attained their full functional development, and the patient was able to procreate — a point which may have an important medico-legal bearing. So long as one testis is fully developed and normally placed, the patient preserves his masculine char- acteristics and retains his sexual power, but when both glands are imperfectly developed, there is usually marked interference with the physical growth and mental vigour. The patient may acquire certain feminine peculiarities, such as absence of hair on the face, enlargement of the breasts, plumpness of the figure, and sometimes a thin contralto voice. In addition he is usually impotent as well as sterile. These changes are probably due to the want of the “internal secretion” of the testis, which is believed to be essential to full and perfect development. Complications.—The most important complications are con- genital hernia, congenital hydrocele, and torsion of the cord. These conditions are described elsewhere. An abnormally situated testis may become acutely inflamed, for example, as a result of infection from the urethra in gonorrhoea, and in the case of a testis retained in the abdomen the inflammation may spread to the peritoneum. When acute inflammation attacks a testis arrested in the inguinal canal, the condition may closely simulate a strangulated hernia. Consider- able swelling of the gland, attended with oedema of the overlying skin, and great pain, is liable to result from a blow or twist, or from repeated irritation from pressure caused by the contraction of the abdominal muscles. It is believed by some that abnor- mally placed testes are prone to become the seat of malignant disease in adult life, but the evidence on this point is conflicting. Treatment.—The treatment depends upon the position of the gland, the length of the cord, whether the condition is unilateral or bilateral, and the presence of complications such as hernia, hydrocele, or inflammation. When the testis is arrested in its progress along the inguinal740 THE MALE GENITAL OKGANS. canal and there is no hernia, an attempt should be made to manipu- late the gland into its proper position in the scrotum by system- atically applying gentle pressure and traction so as to lengthen the cord. If this fails, the testis should be transplanted into the scrotum by operation—orchidopexy. The inguinal canal is opened up as in the operation for hernia, the coverings of the cord divided and separated, and the constituents of the cord, save the vas and its artery, divided, so far as they interfere with the placing of the testis in the scrotum. The testis is pulled into the scrotum, and its lower end made to project through a small opening at the lower part, where it is anchored by stitches passed through the remains of the gubernaculum and the edges of the scrotal wound. To maintain steady traction on the cord while the testis is becoming attached in its new position, the ends of the stitches may be passed through the skin of the inner aspect of the thigh, either of the same or of the opposite side. The processus vaginalis is then closed and the canal sutured, as in the radical operation for hernia. A similar operation may be performed for ectopia testis. If it is found impossible to place the testis in the scrotum, it should be returned to the abdomen. Such operations should be performed as early as possible, as there is experimental evidence that a testis returned to the abdomen or placed in the scrotum has a better chance of attain- ing complete development. If there is evidence of torsion of the cord, or if the testis is atrophied, or if the patient suffers from neuralgic pains, the gland should be removed—orchidectomy. In adults, when the condition is unilateral and is complicated with hernia, it is usually advisable to remove the testis in order that the radical cure of the hernia may be satisfactorily effected. Contusion of the Testis.—This, the most common form of injury of the testis, is accompanied by intense sickening pain radiating down the thigh and along the cord towards the loin, and it may be so severe as to cause syncope. There is always a considerable degree of shock, and in some cases this has proved fatal. The scrotum may be discoloured, and the body of the testis is swollen and tender. In a considerable proportion of cases a severe contusion of the testis is followed by atrophy of the gland, which in the course of six or eight weeks may have shrivelled to the size of a haricot bean. The epididymis does not share in the atrophy. Severe neuralgia of the testis may follow a contusion, and it is not uncommon for tuberculosis of the gland to date from an injury of this kind. The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotumINJURIES OF THE TESTIS. 741 elevated, and have warm antiseptic compresses or lead and opium fomentations applied to the parts. Dislocation of the Testis.—The testis may be squeezed out of the scrotum by such violence as the passage of a wheel over the part, or it may be dragged out by forcible contraction of the cremaster muscle during violent muscular efforts. The gland may pass back into the inguinal canal, or on to the abdominal wall or front of the pubes. It may remain per- manently in its new position, especially if adhesions form in connection with the injury, or it may eventually pass back into the scrotum. The treatment of acquired ectopia is carried out on the same lines as in the developmental form. Injuries of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord may be contused by blows or sudden strains, as for example in falling with the legs widely apart. Violent efforts in coughing have been known to cause rupture of one of the spermatic veins in patients suffering from varicocele. These injuries are followed by effusion of blood into the connective tissue of the cord, and the extravasated blood may either collect in a limited space, or be widely diffused throughout its substance. Some- times thrombosis occurs in the veins. A firm, elongated, sausage-shaped swelling develops in the line of the cord, and may extend from the scrotum to the iliac fossa. There is discoloration in the line of this swelling and in the surround- ing parts. The vas deferens may be ruptured by such external injuries as the passage of a wheel over the groin, or sudden and forcible abduction of the thighs. The injury is usually accompanied by extravasation of blood into the cord, and in some cases blood escapes by the urethra. It is usually followed by atrophy of the testis. Incised and lacerated wounds of the cord, including the vas, may be accidentally produced in the course of such operations as the radical cure of hernia or the excision of a hydrocele of the cord. They are frequently inflicted in attempts at self- mutilation by lunatics. Severe haemorrhage occurs in incised wounds, but lacerated wounds do not bleed much. Atrophy or fatty degeneration of the testis usually ensues. Torsion of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord is liable to be suddenly twisted to such an extent that the vascular supply of the testis is interfered with. The vitality of the testis may be endangered the first time a twist occurs, or there may be recurring attacks of a milder degree, culminating in strangulation. The causes of the torsion are obscure, but as the742 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. accident is most frequently met with in cases in which the testis has not completely descended, and the epididymis and cord are included with the testis in the processus vaginalis, it is probable that these conditions, by increasing the mobility of the testis and its appendages, act as predisposing factors. In five cases of recurring torsion observed by J. W. Dowden, the cord was abnormally broad and flat, and its constituents were spread out in the mesorchium. The actual twisting is probably determined by a sudden congestion of its numerous tortuous veins, resulting, for example, from some sudden jar or strain, or from spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle. In some cases it has followed a direct injury or an attempt to reduce a hernia by taxis. The degree of torsion varies from half a twist to a complete twist and a half, and its direction is usually from without inwards. The kinking of the vessels of the cord causes intense congestion of the testis, which becomes dark bluish-purple or black in colour, and assumes an appearance aptly compared to that of a ripe plum. The epididymis and cord are swollen and discoloured, and the processus vaginalis is filled with blood- stained serum. Clinical Features.—The accident is most common about the age of puberty, but has been met with in infants and in old men. Its occurrence is indicated by the sudden onset of pain, followed some hours later by swelling of the testis, and accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The abdomen may be rigid and slightly distended, and the thigh on the affected side is flexed. The temperature is usually raised. Above the testis, the twisted cord may be recognised as a lobulated swelling. The parts become hot, red, and cedematous, and the swelling is rounded, tense, and exceedingly tender. There is no impulse on coughing. If necrosis of the testis ensues, the pain becomes less or may disappear. In recurrent cases the symptoms are less severe, the patient merely suffering from occasional attacks of sickening pain, which may be relieved by gently stroking the testis. One of these attacks may, however, culminate in complete torsion. Torsion of the cord is to be diagnosed from strangulated hernia, acute orchitis, and acute suppuration of a lymphatic gland. In many cases an exact diagnosis can only be made by exploratory incision. The treatment consists in exposing the testis by dissection. When the testis is in the scrotum, an attempt should be made to undo the twist and to anchor the testis in such a way thatINFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS. 743 recurrence cannot take place. When this is impossible, or when the testis is in the inguinal canal, the gland should be excised, as it is usually functionless, or is likely to become so as the result of the congestion. If necrosis has ensued, the organ must be removed. Inflammatory Affections of the Testis and its Appendages. Any portion of the spermatic tract—testis, epididymis, vas deferens, or seminal vesicle—may be the seat of inflammation, and, according to the cause and nature of the inflammatory pro- cess, it may remain confined to one or other of these structures, or may spread to adjacent parts. The term orchitis is applied when the body of the testis is chiefly involved, and epididymitis when the epididymis suffers most. When both are implicated the term epididymo-orchitis may be employed. Inflammation of the cord and vas deferens (funiculitis), or of the seminal vesicles (vesiculitis), seldom occurs apart from a similar affection of other segments of the tract. The more acute inflammations are due to infection with some form of pyogenic bacteria, and most frequently with the gonococcus, while the more chronic forms are usually tuberculous or syphilitic in nature. Acute Epididymitis and Acute Orchitis.—In considering the acute inflammations of the epididymis and testis, it is convenient to distinguish between those varieties which are due to direct infection from the urethra, for example, in gonorrhoea, and those in which the infection takes place through the blood-stream, as in mumps, typhoid fever, or general septic conditions, or in gout. When the infection spreads from the urethra the main incidence of the inflammation is on the epididymis, and epididymitis results; when by the blood-stream, the body of the testis is chiefly involved, constitut- ing an orchitis. Acute Epididymitis. — Acute Epididymitis of Urethral Origin.—Any form of urethritis may spread to the epididymis by way of the ejaculatory duct and vas deferens. Gonorrhoeal Epididymitis.—This, the most common form of acute epididymitis, occurs in about one in every ten cases of gonorrhoea. It is usually met with during the third, fourth, or fifth week, but may occur at much later periods, and even after all urethral discharge has ceased. The condition is usually unilateral ; when it is bilateral the second gland is usuallyTHE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 744 attacked while the inflammation in the other is subsiding. Although essentially due to direct spread of infection from the posterior urethra, the attack may be determined by excessive exercise, such as a long walk or cycle ride, by exposure to cold, or by injections into the posterior urethra. Clinical Features. — The attack begins with swelling and tenderness of the spermatic cord, and an aching pain which shoots towards the inguinal region and pelvis. The temperature rises, sometimes with shivering, and the patient feels feverish and ill. There may be sickness and vomiting, and the bowels are usually constipated. The scrotum becomes red and cede- rnatous. On palpation the cord is found to be thickened, as a result of swelling of the vas and oedema of the connective tissues, and, it may be, congestion and thrombosis of the veins. The globus minor of the epididymis next becomes enlarged and painful, and the swelling soon spreads to the body and globus major, with the result that there develops behind the body of the testis a crescentic or C-sliaped swelling. The shape and disposition of this swelling is sometimes obscured by an effusion of fluid into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis—acute hydrocele. The body of the testis is seldom implicated. The pain in the epididymis is severe and interferes with sleep, and is aggravated by handling of the parts. With the onset of the epididymitis the urethral discharge ceases, and it usually remains absent as long, as the inflammation lasts. On rectal examination the seminal vesicle and lobe of the prostate on the affected side may be found swollen and tender. The symptoms increase in severity for four or five days, and after remaining at their height for two or three days gradually subside. It is usually two or three weeks before the patient is able to return to work. As the inflammation subsides the urethral discharge usually re- appears. Sequelae.—As a rule the inflammation subsides completely, and although the inflammatory exudate may take weeks or even months to disappear, it usually does so entirely. Atrophy of the testis rarely ensues. In some cases, and particularly if the source of irritation in the deep urethra persists, the patient is liable to suffer from repeated mild attacks, first in the one epidi- dymis, and then in the other—so-called chronic, or relapsing, or alternating epididymitis. This may result in chronic induration of the epididymis and vasa deferentia, occluding the tubes and leading to sterility. A small quantity of fluid may remain permanently in the tunica vaginalis, constituting one form of hydrocele. Suppuration is very rare.ACUTE ORCHITIS. 745 Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotum elevated on a pillow, and the parts should be covered with pads of gauze soaked in 10 per cent, ichthyol and glycerine. Leeches, cupping, or incision may be employed when the congestion is great and extreme tension threatens the vitality of the tissues. After the acute inflammation subsides the induration may be dispersed by inunctions of oleate of mercury ointment, and when the patient gets up he should wear a suspensory bandage. Iodide and bicarbonate of potassium may be given to promote absorption of inflammatory products. Forms of epididymitis other than Gonorrhoeal.—Less severe forms of epididymitis frequently follow the passage of instru- ments and slight injuries of the urethra, such, for example, as may be caused by the passage of a stone or the removal of a foreign body. The symptoms usually come on two or three days after the passage of an instrument, but they may appear suddenly within a few hours. In some cases of enlarged prostate the occurrence of these attacks interferes with the employment of the catheter, and may necessitate operative interference. The body of the testis is involved rather more frequently than in the gonorrhoeal form, and the swelling subsides very slowly. Acute Orchitis.—In the course of certain acute infectious diseases—for example, mumps, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, in- fluenza, tonsillitis, malaria, and pysemia—the body of the testis may become acutely inflamed. A similar condition is some- times met with in gouty and rheumatic subjects. Orchitis in Mumps.—This complication of mumps is met with chiefly in patients about the age of puberty. Towards the end of the first week of the parotitis the body of the testis suddenly becomes swollen and painful. The testis is firm, tense, and smooth, and extremely tender, the pain radiating along the cord to the loin. There is no enlargement of the epididymis or cord, nor is there any effusion into the tunica vaginalis, but the scrotum becomes red and oedematous. The condition is usually unilateral; when both glands are attacked the swelling has usually subsided on one side before the 'other becomes affected. The inflammation lasts for about three or four days and then gradually abates. Suppuration is very rare, but atrophy of the testis is not uncommon, and, when bilateral, renders the patient sterile. The orchitis that occurs in the course of the other acute infectious diseases above mentioned closely resembles that746 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. associated with mumps, but is on the whole less acute, and the pain and other symptoms are less severe. As the swelling of the testis usually occurs when the fever is at its height, the local symptoms are apt to be overshadowed by those of the general disease, and the testicular condition, particularly in adults, may be overlooked or only discovered accidentally. Orchitis in Gout.—Gouty orchitis usually occurs in patients over fifty years of age, who are subject to repeated attacks of arthritic gout, and manifests itself just before the onset of one of the regular attacks. The swelling is most marked in the body of the testis, but the epididymis often shares in the inflammation, and there is frequently an effusion into the tunica vaginalis. The condition is frequently bilateral, and relapses are common. Treatment.—The treatment of these various forms of orchitis is carried out on the same lines as that for epididymitis, due attention being paid to any general disease that may be present. When suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened, an attempt being made to save the testis. Tuberculosis of the Testis and Epididymis.—The epididymis and testis are frequently the seat of chronic tuberculous disease, and the condition may involve serious consequences to the patient, not only on account of its tendency to spread to other parts of the genito-urinary tract, but also from the fact that the function of the gland is lost, and, when the disease is bilateral, it results in sterility. It may be the first manifestation of tuber- culosis exhibited by the patient, or may occur in association with pulmonary phthisis, or some other tuberculous affection. It is more than doubtful if it is ever due to a downward spread from the prostate or bladder (Baumgarten). In young children it occasionally occurs in association with tuberculous peritonitis, infection taking place along the processus vaginalis, and the body of the testis is chiefly involved. The disease may remain confined to the epididymis, but as a rule sooner or later it invades the body; in rare cases the body alone is involved. As a rule the condition is unilateral, but both sides may be involved either simultaneously or consecutively, and an interval of several years may elapse between the two infections, the patient meanwhile having exhibited no other manifestation of tuberculous disease. The disease usually begins in the epididymis—sometimes in the globus major, sometimes in the globus minor—in the form of small tuberculous nodules scattered throughout its substance. These gradually increase in size, run together, and caseate,TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTIS. 747 until the whole of the epididymis is destroyed and replaced by an irregular caseous mass. When the disease spreads to the body of the testis the nodules form first at the hilum, and spread in lines which radiate into the substance of the gland. These nodules also caseate and the testis is destroyed. The vas deferens may be thickened and infiltrated with tubercle throughout its whole length, but as a rule the disease is limited to its two extremities ; the seminal vesicle also is liable to be invaded, becoming enlarged, nodular, and thickened. There is often a moderate effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis, and, as adhesions are frequently present, the resulting hydrocele. may be multilocular. As the disease progresses the softened parts form adhesions with the tunica vaginalis, the scrotal tissues, and finally with the skin, which eventually gives way, and from the sinuses which form there escapes first a thick curdy debris, and later a thin yellow sero- purulent fluid. As the epididy- mis is the most common seat of disease, these tuberculous sinuses are usually situated on the lower and back parts of the scrotum. When they are met with on the front and upper parts of the scrotum, it usually indicates that the disease affects chiefly the body of the testis. Sometimes a considerable area of the skin of the scrotum is destroyed, and the testis, covered with granulations, projects through the gap, constituting one form of fungus testis. The destructive process may become arrested at any stage, but as a rule it progresses until the testis is completely dis- organised, and the disease may spread to other parts of the genito- urinary system, or general tuberculosis may ensue. Clinical Features.—The disease is most commonly met with between the ages of twenty and thirty. The patient’s attention is first attracted to a small, firm nodule, generally towards the back or lower end of the testicle, but as this is not painful it is Fig. 197.—Tuberculous disease of Epididymis, Testis, and Cord.THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 748 usually neglected. The swelling gradually increases until the whole epididymis is involved and forms an irregular, nodular, crescentic swelling on the back of the testis. The body of the testis may be so buried in this swelling that it is only recognised with difficulty, and it may be further obscured by the presence of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In course of time parts of the swelling become soft and may even fluctuate, and these parts tend to become adherent to the scrotum, the skin of which becomes thinned out and of a characteristic reddish-blue colour. Very often it is this change in the skin that causes the patient to seek advice; but sometimes he does not do so until the skin has given way and sinuses have formed. These changes are not attended with much pain, but the patient may complain of a dragging sensation along the cord. The parts are tender on pressure, and testicular sensation is retained. The cord may be thickened and nodular, and on rectal examination the seminal vesicle and prostate may be felt to be enlarged, nodular, and tender. When the prostate is involved there may be pain with micturition and increased frequency. There is no marked constitutional disturbance, and the patient may appear to be in robust health even when the disease has completely destroyed the testis. Treatment.—In its earliest stages the disease may sometimes be arrested by placing the patient under the regime of a sanatorium, or by sending him for a sea voyage. In hospital practice the patients are seldom seen until the condition is too far advanced to yield to such general hygienic measures as are open to them. In the majority of cases, therefore, the only avail- able treatment is by operation. So long as the disease is confined to one testicle no attempt need be made to conserve any part of the gland if this involves the slightest risk of leaving tuberculous tissue behind. When the disease is bilateral, however, if any portion of the secreting substance can with safety be saved, this should be done, because, although the procreative function of the gland is lost, its internal secretion is believed to be of importance. It must be admitted, however, that even after complete removal of both testes in adult life the general health may not be affected. Evidence of involvement of the seminal vesicle, prostate, or bladder, is not a contra-indication to operation, as the removal of the primary focus of infection in the testes is usually followed by arrest or even cure of these secondary lesions. Even when pulmonary phthisis is present excision of the testes is not contra-indicated, as the operation removes one source ofSYPHILITIC TESTIS. 749 infection, and may prevent the spread of the disease to the other genito-urinary organs. When there is advanced disease of the bladder and kidneys little benefit is likely to accrue from any operation on the testes. When the disease is limited to one part of the epididymis the affected tissue may be excised or scraped, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. If the whole of the epididymis is invaded, it is excised, care being taken not to interfere unduly with the vesicular supply to the body of the testis. When both elements of the testicle are implicated castration is called for. Acute tuberculosis of the epididymis is a rare affection, which in its mode of onset and general features closely simulates an acute gonorrhoeal epididymitis. In the course of a few days the acute symptoms abate, but the testicular swelling persists, and the gland is usually destroyed by the tuberculous disease. Syphilitic Affections of the Testis and Epididymis.— Gummatous Orchitis.—Syphilitic Testis.—This may take the form of a diffuse interstitial sclerosis of the connective tissue between the tubules of the testis, or of a localised gumma in the substance of the gland, or these two conditions may be combined. When the sclerotic element predominates it tends to destroy the secreting substance of the testis; the gummatous tissue tends to caseate and break down, leading to ulceration of the scrotum, and in some cases to the formation of one form of fungus testis. Clinical Features.—This affection is usually met with in adults suffering from acquired syphilis, but a similar condition sometimes occurs in young children who have inherited the disease. The onset of the condition is slow and insidious, and the swelling is often discovered accidentally, or the attention of the patient is drawn to it by a sensation of weight in the scrotum, or by a dragging pain in the line of the inguinal canal. As a rule only one testis is affected, but occasionally the two are involved consecutively. The body of the testis slowly becomes enlarged till it is twice or three times its natural size; its normal shape is retained, or it may be somewhat flattened from side to side. The surface is usually smooth, but there are sometimes small hard nodules scattered over it. The testis is hard and of a characteristically “ wooden ” consistence. There is neither pain nor tenderness, and testicular sensation is usually lost. For its bulk the swelling is unduly heavy. The epididymis is not invaded by the disease, and may be so750 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. closely matted to the back of the testis that it cannot be recognised by palpation. The vas deferens, the seminal vesicles, and the prostate are not implicated. In the early stages of the disease there is an effusion into the tunica vaginalis, but as the swelling of the testis increases the fluid usually disappears. The integument of the scrotum may be stretched and thinned, and in the later stages a breaking down gumma may infiltrate the skin, which finally ulcerates, giving exit to a quantity of yellowish fluid, and exposing the surface of the testis covered by a greyish-yellow slough, aptly compared in appearance to a piece of wash-leather. Treatment.—As a rule the condition rapidly yields to anti- syphilitic drugs, and the inunction of oleate of mercury ointment is often beneficial. When ulceration has occurred mercurial lotions and dressings should be used. When a large surface of the scrotum is destroyed by ulceration, and fungus testis has occurred, the testis should be removed. In the infantile form of syphilitic testis the sclerotic element predominates. The condition is usually met with in children from two to six months old, and as a rule both testes are involved. The glands are about the size of a pigeon’s egg, densely hard and painless. The presence of other signs of inherited syphilis aids in the diagnosis, and the treatment is carried out on the usual lines. In secondary syphilis the epididymis may be affected by inflammatory changes—syphilitic epididymitis — which rapidly disappear under the influence of mercury. Tumours of the Testis. Tumours of the testis are exceedingly difficult to classify either on a pathological or on a clinical basis. This arises from the fact that some varieties are composed of several different histo- logical elements, no one of which predominates sufficiently to characterise the growth, and that other varieties show a marked tendency to undergo cystic and other forms of degeneration, and so to lose their original characters. Another peculiarity of testicular tumours is that they are specially prone to malignant transformation, so that a tumour which is originally innocent may eventually infect adjacent glands and become disseminated in distant parts of the body. Some of the varieties met with are so rare that it is not necessary to do more than name them here, for example, fibroma, myxoma, myoma, osteoma, and teratoma. Others, such as751 TUMOURS OF THE TESTIS. lymphadenoma and the different varieties of chondroma, seldom occur except in combination with sarcomatous elements, and are therefore most conveniently included among malignant growths. In all these varieties the treatment consists in removing the testis. Malignant Tumours.—The soft, medullary, or encephaloid carcinoma is, for all practical purposes, the only form of carcinoma of the testis that need be referred to. All varieties of sarcoma are met with, the soft, rapidly growing, cellular forms being the most common. As it is seldom possible to distinguish clinically between a carcinoma and a sarcoma, and as a microscopic ex- amination of the growth does not always serve to remove the doubt, it is convenient to consider these two forms of malignant growth together. Clinical Features.—Malignant disease of the testis may occur at any age, the majority of cases being met with between the ages of twenty-five and forty-five. Sarcoma is not uncommon in children below the age of ten. The swelling of the testis may come on insidiously, without obvious cause, but not infrequently it is observed to follow an injury. The patient complains of a dragging pain along the line of the spermatic cord, but the testicular swelling is neither painful nor tender, and testicular sensation is soon lost. The swelling increases rapidly and continuously until the testis may be three or four times its natural size. As long as the tunica albuginea remains intact, the normal shape of the gland is pre- served, and the swelling is of uniform consistence ; but when this capsule is perforated, the swelling becomes irregular in shape, bossy, and of varying consistence, some parts being soft and boggy, while others are firmer and more resistent. In the early stages the recognition of the tumour is sometimes rendered difficult by the presence of fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The scrotal swelling may suddenly undergo a rapid increase in size from the occurrence of haemorrhage into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis—hasmatocele. The epididymis is usually incorporated in the tumour mass and cannot be differentiated from it. The spermatic cord be- comes enlarged and thickened from congestion of its vessels, but is seldom directly invaded by the growth. The scrotum is free at first, but ultimately becomes invaded by the growth, which eats its way through the skin and so leads to the formation of one variety of fungus testis. When the iliac and lumbar glands are infected, they may be palpable above the brim of the pelvis, and when the scrotum is invaded the inguinal glands become enlarged. The diagnosis from other testicular swellings752 THE MALE GENITAL OKGANS. is often difficult, and it is sometimes impossible to distinguish between a hsematocele and a malignant tumour. The prognosis is always grave on account of the early date at which the glands become infected and the rapidity with which the disease becomes generalised. The treatment consists in performing castration as soon as the diagnosis is made. The whole gland, the cord as far as the internal abdominal ring, and any portion of the scrotum invaded by the tumour, should be removed. In the rapidly growing cellular forms the disease usually reappears in the glands or in the liver within a year, but the removal of the primary growth tends materially to prolong life and to diminish suffering. In fibro-sarcoma the results of operation are more satisfactory. In advanced cases, and when recurrence takes place after operation, the glandular masses, by pressing on the nerve roots, give rise to severe paroxysmal pain in the loins and back, and the pain may pass down the back of the thigh and simulate sciatica. The pressure on the pelvic veins causes congestion of the scrotum and cord, and oedema and venous congestion of the lower extremities. Secondary tumours may form in the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, and complete paraplegia may suddenly ensue from pressure on the spinal cord. Secondary deposits commonly occur in the liver and lungs. Cystic Tumours of the Testis.—Different forms of tumour are included under the term cystic disease of the testis. Some are comparatively benign, and are composed of numerous cysts, varying in size from a pea to a hazel-nut, with smooth walls, and containing a clear, glairy fluid. The stroma consists of a varying amount of fibrous tissue in which nodules of cartilage are fre- quently present. Others are distinctly malignant, and are com- posed of a few irregular cysts into which papillary growths project. The fluid is usually brown or blood-stained. The stroma is composed of a mixture of cellular connective tissue, mucoid tissue, and often definitely sarcomatous tissue—hence the term cystic sarcoma, which is sometimes applied to this variety. No hard and fast line separates these varieties, and it is not uncommon for the innocent forms to take on malignant characters and become disseminated. These cystic growths appear to originate in the remnant of the Wolffian body—the organ of Giraldes or paradidymis—which lies between the epididymis and the testis. The secreting tissue of the testis is found flattened against the upper and anterior part of the tunica albuginea.753 CYSTS OF THE TESTIS. Cystic disease usually appears in men of about thirty, and the symptoms vary with the malignancy of the growth. In the more innocent forms the swelling is painless, ovoid, smooth, and of a semi-solid consistence. There is no glandular enlargement, the cord is not implicated, and the general health of the patient is unaffected. In the malignant forms the growth is more rapid, the swelling is irregular, bossy, and of unequal consistence, the pelvic and lumbar glands are early involved, and the patient soon exhibits the general signs of malignant disease. Early removal of the testis is indicated in all forms of cystoma. Cysts of the Epididymis: Encysted Hydrocele of the Epididymis.—Cysts are occasionally met with in relation to the epididymis, and are probably due to dilatation and degeneration of one or other of the remnants of the Wolffian body, which lie between the head of the epididymis and the testis. They are entirely outside the tunica vaginalis, and contain an alkaline, colourless or opalescent fluid, which differs from that found in hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis in being of a lower specific gravity (about 1004) and practically free from albumin. Haemorrhage may occur into the cavity—encysted hcematocele of the epididymis. As the majority of these cysts contain spermatozoa—sometimes complete and motile, but more frequently immature—they are known as spermatoceles. The condition is often bilateral, and is usually met with in men above forty years of age. Sometimes these cysts give rise to severe and persistent neuralgic pains. A tense rounded or pyriform swelling, varying in size from a hen’s to a turkey’s egg, can be recognised above and behind the testis, to which it is attached and with which it moves. The cyst increases in size very slowly, and in its earlier stages is liable to be mistaken for a supernumerary testis. The cyst should first be tapped, and if it fills up again it should be excised. Hydrocele of the Cord.—The most common form of hydro- cele of the cord is the encysted hydrocele—a condition in which serous fluid accumulates in an unobliterated portion of the pro- cessus vaginalis. This process may be occluded only at its upper and lower ends, in which case the hydrocele forms a single cyst extending from near the internal abdominal ring almost to the top of the testis, and occupying the inguinal canal and upper part of the scrotum. When only a short segment of the process remains patent, the cyst is correspondingly circum- scribed. Sometimes the obliteration is irregular and several small cysts develop. VOL. II—48754 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. As the right processus vaginalis closes later and less com- pletely than the left, encysted hydrocele of the cord, like other conditions depending upon the non-closure of this peritoneal tube, is more common on the right than on the left side. It may develop at any age, but is most frequently met with in young children. The swelling is ovoid, smooth, tense, and elastic. By traction on the testis the swelling may be capable of being pulled down towards the scrotum, and pushed well into the inguinal canal, but it does not enter the abdominal cavity. It may receive an apparent impulse on coughing, and so simulate an inguinal hernia, an affection with which it is often confused. Not infrequently the two conditions are present together. Treatment.—These cysts tend to disappear spontaneously during infancy; if they do not do so, they should be tapped or dissected out from the cord. Tumours of the Cord.—Primary tumours of the cord are rare ; the varieties met with include fibroma, fibro-myoma, and sarcoma. They may attain a considerable size, and it is not always easy to diagnose them from tumours of the testis. A pad of extra-peritoneal fat is frequently found protruded through the internal abdominal ring and growing down along the cord, closely simulating an omental hernia. This is sometimes spoken of as a lipoma of the cord, or as a fatty hernia. All varieties are treated by excision; in the case of the sarcoma it is usually necessary to remove the testis as well as the cord. Varicocele.—This term is applied to a varicose condition of the veins of the spermatic cord. The varix may affect all the veins in the cord, but is usually confined to those of the pampini- form plexus. These veins originate in the tunica vasculosa of the testis, and after perforating the tunica albuginea they accompany the spermatic artery, lying in the anterior part of the cord, in front of the vas deferens and its companion artery and veins. In the upper part of the scrotum the smaller vessels of the plexus combine to form two or three larger trunks which traverse the inguinal canal, and eventually unite to form the spermatic vein. On the right side the spermatic vein opens into the vena cava obliquely, and on the left enters the left renal vein at a right angle. In their course the spermatic veins communicate with branches belonging to the portal system; they are therefore liable to become engorged when, from any cause, the circulation in the portal system is obstructed. Causes.—This particular form of varix is, so far as is known, due to the same causes as other forms, the most important of which is perhaps a congenital deficiency in the valves and in the755 VARICOCELE. strength of the walls of the veins. The length and tortuosity of the veins, the slight support they receive as they hang in the lax and pendulous scrotum, and the feeble vis a tergo of the blood- stream in the comparatively long and small spermatic artery, are probably additional predisposing factors. It is alleged that prolonged or repeated backward pressure on the column of blood, resulting, for example, from habitual constipation, disease of the liver, or repeated violent muscular efforts, is a determining factor in the production of varicocele, but it is seldom possible to attribute the condition to any such cause. Varicocele frequently develops as an early symptom in patients suffering from malignant disease of the kidney. Varicocele is an affection of puberty and early manhood, it tends to disappear in adult life, and is very rare in old age. It is much more common on the left side than on the right (30 to 1). In about 7 per cent, of cases it is bilateral. The excessive frequency of left-sided varicocele has been attributed to various causes, the most probable of which is the obstruction offered to the blood as it enters the left renal vein at right angles to the stream. In its morbid anatomy varicocele resembles ordinary varix of the superficial veins of the extremities. The vessels are dilated, elongated, and tortuous, their walls irregularly thickened, with here and there fusiform or sacculated dilatations. Clinical Features.—The condition usually develops insidiously and painlessly, and is often first observed when the patient applies for admission to one of the public services. The scrotum is usually abnormally lax and pendulous, its walls thin and transparent, and the dartos wanting in tone and contractility. The scrotum is occupied by a soft mass of distended veins, which on palpation feels like “ a bag of worms.” The dark blue vessels may be visible when the skin is put upon the stretch. The varicosity is most marked in the scrotal portion of the cord, and seldom extends into the inguinal canal. The testis is sometimes obscured by being enveloped in loops of varicose veins hanging down to the bottom of the scrotum. When the patient lies down, the veins slowly and gradually empty, and the swelling largely disappears. It reappears, however, when he stands up again, slowly increasing from below upwards, and a slight impulse is perceptible when he coughs. The swelling can be rendered more prominent by compressing the veins against the pubes. If the condition begins about puberty, the development of the testis may be interfered with and the gland remain small and soft, but when it first appears in early manhood, the testis is756 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. normal and its nutrition is seldom impaired. Phlebitis and thrombosis, with the formation of phleboliths, are rare, and the varicose vessels seldom rupture. In the majority of cases there is no discomfort beyond a dragging sensation in the line of the cord, which gets worse towards evening, or after prolonged standing or walking. Nocturnal emissions are sometimes unduly frequent. In some cases the patient complains of severe neuralgic pain, and suffers from mental depression and sexual hypochondriasis, based on the fear that impotence and sterility may result. Treatment.—The majority of cases only call for palliative treatment, which consists in regulating the bowels, administering general tonics, and wearing a suspensory bandage. The applica- tion of a cold spray to the scrotum and surrounding parts night and morning is useful in bracing up the scrotum. At the same time the patient should be assured that the condition is an un- important one, which tends to pass off, and which is not liable to lead to any functional disability. When the swelling increases and causes pain and discomfort, or when it is a bar to the patient entering one of the public services, the veins should be removed. An incision, about two inches long, and parallel to Poupart’s ligament, is made over the external abdominal ring. The coverings of the cord are divided, and the testis is pulled out of the scrotum. The vas and its accompanying vessels are isolated and hooked aside. The dilated veins are then secured between forceps as they enter the inguinal canal above, and close to the epididymis below, the intervening portion removed, and each end securely ligatured with a Staffordshire knot. The ligatures are left long and tied to one another, so that the ends of the divided veins are brought together in order to shorten the cord and allow the scrotum to contract. It is only necessary to remove an elliptical portion of the scrotum when it is unusually long and lax. The patient should remain in bed for at least a fortnight, and should wear a suspensory bandage for some time after the operation. Neuralgia Testis.—This condition, in which the patient is liable to repeated attacks of paroxysmal pain referred to the testis, may occur at puberty or in adult life, and is usually met with in men of a highly neurotic temperament. It may be a pure neuralgia, or may be attributable to inflammatory ad- hesions or cicatrices in the tunica vaginalis, the testis or vas deferens, to fibrous bodies in the tunica vaginalis, a small encysted hydrocele, a new growth, or a varicocele. In other cases the neuralgia is associated with such conditions as irritation of theNEURALGIA TESTIS. 757 prostatic urethra or neck of the bladder, the presence of a renal calculus, oxaluria, gout, persistent constipation, or an anal fissure. The treatvient consists in removing the cause when this can be discovered, improving the general health of the patient, applying soothing applications during the attacks, and wearing a suspensory bandage. It is only in extreme cases, which have resisted all other treatment, that the testis should be removed. Atrophy of one or both testes may result from injury of the gland, or from inflammatory conditions following gonorrhoea, syphilis, mumps, typhoid, or other infective diseases. Sometimes the testis on the same side as a hernia is much smaller than its fellow. Atrophy may also occur when the vascular or nerve supply of the organ is interfered with in any way, as for example in severe injuries of the spermatic cord, and it is especially liable to occur if the vas is divided or ruptured. The glandular elements de- generate and the stroma shrivels up, and the body of the organ is merely repre- sented by a small nodule of connective tissue. The epi- didymis and the structures of the cord may share in the atrophic process, but as a rule the epididymis remains palpable behind the remains < a Fig. 198.—Atrophy of body of right Testis (a). intact (Fig. 198) and is distinctly f the testis. The Tunica Vaginalis. Hydeocele.—The term hydrocele is used somewhat loosely to indicate a collection of fluid in relation to the testis, its appendages, or its coverings. In a more restricted sense it refers to a collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Acute Hydrocele.—This term is applied to the serous effusion which takes place into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in the course of inflammatory conditions of the testis and epididymis, and after injuries of these organs. The fluid is an ordinary758 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. serous exudate, and differs from that met with in chronic forms of hydrocele in being more rich in cells, more highly coagulable, and more liable to be followed by adhesions between the opposing walls of the sac. The condition is apt to be overlooked clinically, as its signs are overshadowed by those of the orchitis or epididymitis with which it is associated. As a rule the fluid disappears as the primary inflammation subsides, and no special treatment is called for. Chronic Hydrocele.—Several varieties of chronic hydrocele are recognised, according to the situation of the effused fluid. In the most common variety — the ordinary or acquired hydrocele — the fluid occupies and distends the cavity of the normal tunica vaginalis. In the congenital hydrocele, the fluid distends the tunica vaginalis and communicates with the peritoneal cavity through the processus vaginalis, which remains unobliterated. When the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded, and the fluid is confined to the tunica vaginalis and the unobliterated portion of the process, the condition is known as infantile hydrocele. The term inguinal hydrocele is applied when fluid collects in the tunica vaginalis of an imperfectly descended testis. The fluid in a chronic hydrocele is serous in character, con- tains about 6 per cent, of albumin and a small quantity of fibrinogen, and has a specific gravity of from 1022 to 1025. It does not coagulate spontaneously. It may be clear and watery, or of a pale straw or greenish colour. In old standing hydroceles it often presents a glistening appearance from the presence of numerous shiny cholesterin crystals, and in some cases calcareous plates are found scattered over the walls of the sac, or the whole of the parietal layer may be calcified and rigid. According to the size of the hydrocele the quantity of fluid varies from a few ounces to several pints. Sometimes fat or chyle is present in the fluid, and gives it a white, milky appearance—chylous hydrocele; this may be due to the presence of the filaria sanguinis hominis. The etiology of hydrocele is obscure. In a certain number of cases the fluid develops in association with some obvious disease of the testis or epididymis, such as syphilis or tubercle, but in the great majority the testis is healthy. It may follow upon a single, or upon repeated injuries. Pedunculated fibrous bodies are sometimes met with projecting from the tunica vaginalis into the cavity of the hydrocele, but it is doubtful whether these are the cause or the result of the hydrocele. The ordinary or acquired hydrocele of the tunica vaginalisHYDROCELE 759 comes on insidiously in middle-aged men, and forms a pyriform, rounded, or oblong swelling, which begins in the lower part of the scrotum and gradually en- larges from below upwards. It is smooth on the surface, uniform in outline, tense and elastic in consistence, and stands out pro- minently in the scrotum (Fig. 199). When the walls of the sac are calcified, a sensation of egg- shell cracking may be elicited on squeezing the swelling. On per- cussion it is dull and may yield a peculiar thrill. In early cases the swelling may be translucent, but too much weight must not be attached to this sign, as thicken- ing of the wall of the sac, the presence of adhesions, discolora- tion of the contained fluid, or other causes may render it opaque. There is no true impulse on cough- ing, but the contraction of the abdominal walls may give an apparent impulse. The fluid does not leave the scrotum when the patient lies down, and cannot be reduced into the abdominal cavity by pressure. There is no pain, but the weight of the fluid causes a dragging sensation along the line of the cord. The position of the testis in relation to the sac varies, sometimes it is at the lower part of the scrotum, some- times about halfway down (Fig. 200). It can usually be located—by eliciting testicu- lar sensation on squeezing it. The two sides sized Hydrocele of the are affected with about equal frequency, but Tunica Vaginalis, sometimes the condition is bilateral, and in showing the relation Such cases the stretching of the skin of the of the Testis to the , i ,i • Tt j ai Hydrocele scrotum may bury the penis. Under these conditions the urine may irritate the skin Fig. 199.—Large Hydrocele of left Tunica Vaginalis in a man, set. 45. Subsequently treated by excision. Fig. 200. — Moderate- and produce eczema. The swelling is usually confined to the scrotum, but a funnel-760 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. shaped process sometimes passes towards the inguinal canal and gives an appearance which simulates a hernia. Sometimes a marked constriction exists about the middle of the sac, dividing it into two compartments—bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. As a result of adhesions the cavity may be multilocular. Diagnosis.—A careful analysis of the signs and symptoms will usually enable an ordinary hydrocele to be diagnosed from a scrotal hernia, a tumour of the testis or epididymis, a liannatocele, or from other forms of hydrocele. It is to be borne in mind that hydrocele may be complicated by hernia, and that more than one form of hydrocele may coexist. Treatment.—As spontaneous cure seldom occurs in adults, and as the swelling by its size, weight, and unsightliness is a source of annoyance to the patient, an attempt should be made to cure the condition. Tapping.—The patient is seated on the edge of a chair, and the surgeon grasps the swelling in such a way as to render the front of the hydrocele prominent and tense. A fine trocar and cannula is then thrust in a backward and upward direction into the swelling a little below its middle. Care is taken to avoid injuring the testis or any of the larger veins of the scrotum. The trocar is now withdrawn and the cannula pushed well into the cavity, and pressure is kept up till all the fluid has escaped, after which the cannula is quickly withdrawn. The puncture is sealed with collodion, a pad of wool applied over the scrotum, and pressure exerted by an ordinary or a suspensory bandage. The patient should rest for some hours after the tapping. Simple tapping is seldom curative in adults, although some- times successful in children. Operative treatment is indicated in large hydroceles with thickened or calcified walls, in cases where loose or pedunculated bodies are present, when there is reason to believe that the hydrocele communicates with the peritoneal cavity or with the sac of a hernia, and in cases in which the fluid has reaccumulated after repeated tapping. Owing to the difficulty of keeping scrotal wounds aseptic, it is best to reach the hydrocele through an incision above Poupart’s ligament. A transverse incision is made over the external abdo- minal ring, exposing the cord. The upper end of the hydrocele is cleared, and having been made to project towards the wound, is opened and the sac emptied. The collapsed sac, together with the testis, is then withdrawn from the scrotum, and the parietal layer turned inside out, the edges of the sac being sutured along the back of the epididymis and testis with catgut. All bleeding761 HYDROCELE. points are now secured with ligatures, and the testis returned to the scrotum. A small drainage tube is introduced through a puncture made at the bottom of the scrotum, the inguinal incision completely closed, and firm pressure is exerted on the scrotum by means of a bandage. In large hydroceles with thick, rigid walls, such as are met with in tropical countries, the entire parietal layer must be excised through a free incision in the scrotum. Drainage of the sac through an incision in the scrotum is so tedious, so uncertain in its results, and so liable to be followed by sepsis, that it is not recommended. The injection of strong tincture of iodine or carbolic acid into the sac, formerly much in vogue, has been given up in favour of the more speedy and certain results obtained by operation. Congenital hydrocele is usually met with in children. It presents the same general characters as the chronic hydrocele of adults, but as the processus vaginalis is patent, the fluid flows into the peritoneal cavity when the patient lies down, or can be slowly pressed back by squeezing the swelling. It differs from a congenital hernia in being dull on percussion, and in the slow and gradual way in which it is reduced without gurgling or sudden jerk. The swelling resembles a hernia in becoming tense when the patient cries or coughs. The diagnostic value of translucency is diminished by the fact that a hernia of small intestine in young children may also transmit light. If the fluid does disappear spontaneously, the sac should be dissected out. Infantile hydrocele resembles the ordinary acquired hydrocele of adults, save that the sac extends farther along the inguinal canal, as only the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded. In some cases a constriction exists where the tunica vaginalis and the funicular process join, and the upper compart- ment of the sac becomes greatly distended and bulges, either up between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, forming a salient fluid swelling which may reach to the umbilicus, or into the iliac fossa and pelvis, where it may displace the pelvic viscera and be palpable from the rectum. This constitutes one of the forms of bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. It is treated by excising as much of the sac as possible. A condition comparable to infantile hydrocele is produced when fluid collects in a hernial sac emptied of its contents and occluded at its upper end —hydrocele of a hernial sac. Haematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—An extravasation of blood into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is spoken of asTHE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 762 a hoematocele. The blood may be effused into a previously healthy or into a chronically inflamed tunica vaginalis, or into a pre-existing hydrocele (Jiydro-hcematocele). Hteniatocele may also develop in association with malignant disease of the testis. The haemorrhage is almost always due to trauma, for example, a blow or kick over the scrotum, a sudden strain or twist, or a punctured wound, as in tapping a hydrocele. In the last instance the bleeding may result from wounding a blood-vessel of the scrotum, tunica vaginalis, or testis. Clinical Features.—The physical signs of a hsematocele resemble in a general way those of hydrocele, but being traumatic in origin the swelling usually develops suddenly. The tunica vaginalis rapidly becomes filled by the extravasated blood, form- ing a tense oval swelling which distends the scrotum and obscures the testis. With the onset of the swelling the patient experiences a sickening pain, but there are no signs of inflammation. The scrotum may become discoloured at once from extravasation taking place into its tissues, or some days later from the deposition of blood pigment. The swelling is at first uniform in outline, soft and fluctuating, but in the course of a few days the blood coagu- lates, and it becomes irregular in shape and consistence. Still later it becomes firm from thickening of its walls by the deposit on them of fibrin and laminated clot. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis is occupied by a dark brown sanious fluid into which project shreddy masses of coagulum. An old standing hematocele may simulate a solid tumour of the testis, and calcareous plates may develop in it's walls. When the haemorrhage occurs into a pre-existing hydrocele, the swelling suddenly becomes larger, firmer, and heavier. Suppuration sometimes occurs either from infection from without, as in tapping a hydrocele, or through the blood- stream. When the haematocele is. of long standing the testis may undergo atrophy. Treatment.—In recent cases the patient should remain in bed, with the scrotum elevated on a pillow placed between the thighs, and evaporating lotions or lead and opium fomentations applied. In the course of a few days the sac should be opened, the clots removed, and the radical cure of hydrocele performed. In old-standing cases the thickened sac should be excised. When suppuration occurs, free -incision and drainage are called for, and if the testis is atrophied its removal is indicated.763 PHIMOSIS. THE PENIS. Surgical Anatomy. — The penis is composed of the two corpora cavernosa, which lie towards the dorsum, and the corpus spongiosum, which occupies the groove on the ventral aspect ot the corpora cavernosa, and is traversed by the urethra. These different elements are enclosed by fibrous sheaths. The conical end of the penis- the expanded anterior end of the corpus spongiosum — is known as the glans, and the redundant fold of skin which covers it as the prepuce. The lymphatics of the external genitals drain chiefly into the group of inguinal glands which run parallel with Poupart’s ligament. Malformations—Phimosis.—The most common malforma- tion of the penis is phimosis, a condition in which the prepuce, owing to the small size of its orifice, cannot be retracted over the glans. Phimosis may be congenital or acquired. In congenital phimosis, the prepuce, in addition to having an Sheath of corpora cavernosa Urethra Dorsal arteries Corpus cavernosum Corpus spongiosum Fig. 201.—Transverse Section of Penis. unduly small orifice, is usually unnaturally long and pointed, and the slight adhesions which, at birth, normally exist between the prepuce and the glans persist to a greater or less extent. Sometimes the prepuce is shorter than normal and is tightly stretched over the glans, to which it is intimately adherent. In the sulcus round the corona there is an accumulation of inspissated smegma which forms a white putty-like mass, or may be moulded into small rounded concretions. During childhood the main trouble caused by phimosis is interference with micturition. When the prepuce is long and not adherent, and its orifice is smaller than the urinary meatus, the urine collects in the preputial pouch and distends it during micturition. Dilatation of the urethra and bladder, and even of the ureters and renal pelvis, leading to hydronephrosis, has been observed to result from the backward pressure in extreme cases.THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 764 Nocturnal incontinence is sometimes attributable to phimosis, particularly when the prepuce is adherent to the glans. Inflammation of the sac of the prepuce—balanitis—is a frequent complication, and the itching and pain which result cause the child to rub and pull the penis, and the habit of masturbation may thus be acquired. The constant straining during micturi- tion tends to the production of inguinal hernia or of prolapsus ani. Convulsions, epilepsy, paraplegia, and numerous other nerve disturbances have been, rightly or wrongly, attributed to phimosis, and in some cases these have disappeared after circumcision. In adult life the existence of phimosis renders the patient specially liable to acquire venereal disease if exposed to infection, as the preputial pouch forms a favourable site for the lodgment and growth of organisms; and when infection occurs it tends to aggravate the disease, the discharges being retained within the prepuce. When it is associated with chronic balanitis, phimosis would appear to favour the development of cancer of the penis. The condition may interfere with coitus, the semen being retained in the preputial pouch. Acquired phimosis is usually met with in adults, and is due to oedematous swelling and congestion of the prepuce, resulting, as a rule, from such inflammatory conditions as gonorrhoea, soft sores, hard chancre, eczema, or herpes preputialis. It may also occur in diabetic patients from the irritation caused by fermentation of sugar-containing urine. It is most likely to develop in those who have naturally a long and narrow prepuce, and is therefore rather an aggravation of a congenital phimosis than a new condition. Treatment.—The only method of treatment that need be con- sidered is circumcision. The slighter degrees of congenital phimosis tend to disappear spontaneously. Treatment is only called for in childhood, therefore, when the condition is well marked and interferes with micturition, or is associated with recurrent attacks of balanitis. If towards the onset of puberty there is no sign of improvement, circumcision should be per- formed to diminish the irritation incident to the changes in the genital organs at this period of life. After puberty the condition tends to get worse rather than better, and operation is always indicated. The glans is pushed back, and the prepuce grasped with a pair of dressing forceps applied to it obliquely from above downwards and forwards. The portion of the prepuce in front of the blades of the forceps is then cut off with a long bistoury. Care must be taken to remove just enough skin to enable the glans to be completely exposed, and yet to leave a covering for765 PARAPHIMOSIS. the sensitive papillae of the corona. After removing the forceps the lining membrane of the prepuce, which still covers the glans, is slit up along the dorsum, and the excess cut away with scissors. The bleeding is arrested by torsion or by fine catgut ligatures, special attention being paid to the vessels in the vicinity of the frenum. The cut edges of the outer and inner layers of the prepuce are then stitched together by a series of interrupted catgut stitches. In children the parts are smeared with sterile vaseline, in adults a dressing of vaseline gauze is applied, and full doses of bromides should be given to prevent erections which, besides causing pain, are liable to tear the stitches and so interfere with primary union. Paraphimosis.—This term is applied to the condition that results when the glans penis is constricted by a tight prepuce which has been drawn back and cannot be pulled forward again. The prepuce is turned inside out, and the margin of the orifice of the prepuce forms the con- stricting band. The swelling is at first confined to the tissues of the prepuce, and is most marked in its inner layer, which becomes congested and cedemat- ous (Fig. 202). If the con- dition persists, the venous return from the end of the penis may be interfered with and the glans may share in the swelling. Ulceration eventually occurs at the upper part of the ring on the dorsal aspect of the penis, and to some extent relieves the strangulation. In some cases, however, gangrene of the prepuce and glans has occurred. The condition is attended with severe pain, which is often aggravated by repeated or persistent erection of the penis. The point of the penis is greatly altered in shape by the oedema, and the whole organ may become bent or tortuous. In adults paraphimosis is frequently met with as a complication of venereal disease. Treatment.—In recent cases the glans can be reduced by applying steady and firm pressure to the parts. A piece of lint soaked in a 5 per cent, solution of cocain is laid over the end Fig. 202.—Paraphimosis in a boy, set. 6. (From a photograph lent by Mr. Stiles.)766 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. of the penis and covered with a thick pad of cotton-wool. A narrow elastic bandage is then evenly and firmly applied, and the penis supported in a vertical position. In the course of ten or fifteen minutes the glans is thoroughly lubricated with vaseline, and the penis grasped between the index and middle fingers of both hands, while steady pressure is made on the glans with both thumbs. With a little manipulation reduction is usually readily effected. If these measures fail, so long as the vitality of the parts is not threatened, nothing more should be done. In many cases the swelling disappears, and the prepuce remains permanently retracted,—a condition resembling that produced by circumcision. In cases which are not seen until the constriction has lasted for some days and the vitality of the congested parts is threatened, it is necessary to divide the constricting band on the dorsum of the penis, and leave things to settle down, after which circumcision may be performed. Other malformations of the penis are occasionally met with, such as total absence, double penis, inclusion of the penis in a web of skin w'hich binds it to the front of the scrotum, epispadias and hypospadias. Injuries. — Injuries of the penis are comparatively rare. The erectile tissue is sometimes lacerated as a result of forcible bending of the penis while in a state of erection. In slight cases there is a localised area of swelling and discoloration due to extravasation of blood, or a haematoma may form in the tissues. As a rule the extravasated blood is reabsorbed and recovery is complete. In severe cases the whole thickness of the organ may be involved — “fracture of the penis." The extravasated blood infiltrates the whole of the penis and may spread to the scrotum, the parts assuming a deep purple or black colour and becoming greatly swollen—an appearance which is very alarming to the patient. Repair takes place by the forma- tion of a scar in the corpus spongiosum, which may subsequently cause deviation of the penis during erection ; or, if the cicatricial tissue involves the whole thickness of the organ, erection is incomplete, the distal portion of the penis remaining flaccid while the proximal part becomes engorged. The only treatment available consists in supporting the parts and applying gentle elastic pressure. Incised wounds are met with chiefly as a result of attempts at self-mutilation; they are attended with severe haemor- rhage, and, if the urethra is implicated, may be followed by the formation of a stricture and a urinary fistula. Treatment is directed towards arresting the bleeding and restoring theBALANITIS. 767 continuity of the urethra, a catheter being passed into the bladder and retained in position during healing. When a portion of the penis has been completely cut away, the end of the urethra should be dealt with as described in amputation of the penis (p. 771). Strangulation of the penis may be produced by metal rings, elastic bands, or cords applied round the penis. The distal part of the organ becomes (edematous, congested, and may finally become gangrenous. The constricting object is buried out of sight in the swollen tissues and may escape notice. The urethra becomes occluded, and extravasation of urine may occur leading to the formation of urinary fistulas. The treatment consists in removing the tight band by scissors, cutting forceps, or a file, and in attempting to preserve the vitality of the strangulated tissue. When necrosis occurs the gangrenous portions are covered with mild antiseptic dressings, and the sloughs are clipped away as they become loose. Plastic operations may be required to restore the shape and function of the organ. Inflammatory Affections.—Balanitis.—The term balanitis is applied to an inflammation of the skin lining the prepuce and covering the glans. It is most common in patients who suffer from phimosis, and is due to septic infection and decomposition of accumulated smegma and epithelial debris retained in the preputial pouch. In gouty and diabetic patients urine retained in the pouch may undergo decomposition and cause balanitis. The most severe forms occur in cases of concealed chancre, and in these the infection may be so virulent as to terminate in phagedena. Clinical Features.—There is persistent itching, and burning pain inside the prepuce especially during micturition; the skin becomes red, swollen, and cedematous, and from the orifice there escapes an offensive discharge of pus. If the prepuce can be drawn back, its inner surface may be found studded over with raw areas in the form of excoriations or small ulcers which are liable to be mistaken for venereal sores. If the patient has been exposed to venereal infection, it is often difficult to differentiate between a septic balanitis and gonorrhoea, or a chancre inside the prepuce. A film of the discharge should be examined for gonococci or other organisms. It is sometimes necessary to slit up the prepuce to arrive at a diagnosis. The treatment consists in thorough cleansing of the parts, the pouch being syringed out with Condy’s fluid or hydrogen peroxide, and packed with a strip of lint to keep the opposed surfaces768 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. apart. If there is phimosis, circumcision is often advisable to admit of thorough purification and to prevent recurrence. After middle life a chronic form of balanitis sometimes occurs, and, like similar chronic forms of inflammation of mucous surfaces, such as that of the tongue, may be an antecedent of cancer. Preputial Calculi.—Calculi composed of uric acid, urates, and phosphates are occasionally met with in the preputial sac of adults who suffer from marked degrees of phimosis. They are due to the deposit of salts from the urine which stagnates in the pouch, and the nucleus of the calculus may be a mass of inspissated smegma or mucus, or a small stone which has passed from the kidney or bladder and become lodged within the prepuce. They may be single or multiple, varying in size from a pea to a walnut or even larger, and are usually smooth and faceted (Fig. 203). Lymphangitis is usually an ac- companiment of primary syphilis, the main lymphatic trunks standing out as firm cords on the dorsal aspect of the penis. Cellulitis may result from balan- itis, or from sepsis complicating injuries or operations on the penis, for example circumcision. It may spread to the scrotum and abdomen, and has in some cases proved fatal. The spreading ulceration of the groin and scrotum met with in secondary syphilis sometimes invades the penis, and may eat into its substance to such an extent as to open the urethra and form a urinary fistula. Gangrene of the penis may result from such conditions as paraphimosis, phagadsenic chancres, or septic infection of acci- dental or operation wounds. It is also met with in elderly men suffering from enlarged prostate or stricture, with septic changes in the urethra, and may occur as a sequel of acute infective fevers, such as typhoid or smallpox. In some cases only the skin becomes gangrenous, but in others the whole thickness of the organ undergoes necrosis, and the distal portion is cast off as a slough. The gangrene is usually of the moist type, and the clinical features and principles of treatment are the same as in gangrene of the extremities. After the separation of the slough care must be taken to prevent stricture of the urethral orifice. Fig. 203.—Faceted Calculi from sac of Prepuce. (From Professor Annandale’s collection.)TUMOURS 769 Herpetic eruptions are frequently met with on the prepuce and glans, and are liable to be mistaken for venereal sores. If a history of recurrent attacks can be elicited, it may assist in making a diagnosis. Fibroid Sclerosis or Chronic Induration of the Penis.—This affection, which is usually met with in patients over forty years of age, is characterised by the formation of a plate of firm, fibrous tissue in the superficial part of the corpora cavernosa. The lesion usually begins on the dorsum of the penis near the middle line, and may involve only one side, but more frequently spreads downwards on both sides, forming a saddle-shaped area of induration varying in length from half an inch to two inches. Occasionally it invades the deeper layers of the erectile tissue, and several separate nodules may be present. Very rarely is the corpus spongiosum affected. Sometimes the condition dates from a previous injury, or it may follow the absorption of a syphilitic gumma, but in the great majority of cases no cause is discoverable. Its supposed association with gout or diabetes is not proven. Histologically the condition resembles keloid. The swelling is usually smooth on the surface, is not attached to the skin, but is embedded in the erectile tissue, and is painless except during erection. It gives trouble mainly by interfering with erection ; sometimes merely causing slight distortion, some- times making the penis bend to such an extent that coitus is impossible. In severe cases the distal portion of the penis remains flaccid, while the proximal portion is turgid. Any attempt to straighten the penis is attended with severe pain. The patient may suffer great mental distress. The prognosis is very unsatisfactory, and little benefit is derived from any form of treatment. Repeated blistering, mercurial inunction, the use of the constant current, and internal administration of potassium iodide may be tried. Tumours.—Papillomata or warts are usually met with on the glans and inner aspect of the prepuce as a result of venereal infection. They form red, vascular, cauliflower-like masses, more or less pedunculated, and there is often a foul-smelling discharge. They are described in vol. i. p. 370. Dermoid and sebaceous cysts are occasionally met with on the under aspect of the prepuce. Horns sometimes form, particularly in old men, either in relation to a sebaceous cyst or a hard wart. As they are liable to lead to the development of carcinoma, they should be excised. Carcinoma of the penis is comparatively rare. The disease VOL. II—-49THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. . 770 is almost always a squamous epithelioma, and commences usually on the dorsal aspect of the glans, less frequently at the reflection of the prepuce, and rarely on the inner aspect or at the orifice of the prepuce. In a few cases it has commenced in the urethra, and in others on the skin either near the point or near the root of the penis. From the frequency with which phimosis and chronic balanitis precede the development of epithelioma of the penis, these conditions would appear to be important predisposing factors. Clinical Features.—This disease is most common after the age of fifty, but has been met with in patients under thirty- five. It may begin as a wart, a fissure or excoriation, or a patch of leucoplakia. Occasionally the growth has commenced in an old cicatrix. The disease usually assumes the form of an irregular cauliflower-like excrescence which attains some size before ulceration occurs. The base is hard, and is fixed to the glans and body of the penis. When ulceration begins there is pain, the tumour bleeds readily and exudes a copious and peculiarly offensive discharge. The fibrous sheath of the corpus ' cavernosum resists the spread of the growth for a time, but is ultimately perforated, and the tumour then infiltrates the erectile tissue, in the substance of which secondary nodules may be detected. The urethra is seldom invaded, and there is rarely any interference with micturition. The inguinal and pelvic glands on both sides are early and widely implicated. It is most important to recognise the condition in its earliest stages before glandular invasion has occurred. A hard chancre under cover of a tight prepuce occurring in a patient beyond middle life is very liable to be mistaken for an early cancer, and in doubtful cases the prepuce should be slit up and the growth inspected before any more radical operation is performed. Treatment.—The only treatment is free removal, and this should be done as early as possible to prevent lymphatic invasion. The amount of the penis to be amputated depends on the stage and extent of the disease. Amputation of the Penis.—A. piece of rubber tubing is applied round the base of the penis to prevent haemorrhage. A straight bougie is passed down the urethra as far as the tourniquet. A short flap of skin and subcutaneous tissue is then raised from the ventral aspect, well behind the cancer, exposing the corpus spongiosum. This, together with the urethra, is divided by cutting down upon the bougie three-quarters of an inch beyond the base of the flap, A flap of skin, sufficiently long to cover the end of the stump, is then reflected from the dorsal and771 PRIAPISM. lateral aspects of the penis, and the corpora cavernosa divided by a circular incision at the level of the base of the skin flaps. The tourniquet having been removed and the bleeding arrested, a small opening is made in the dorsal flap opposite the level of the urethra, the end of which is slit up laterally for a short distance, pulled through this opening, and stitched to its edges. Finally the dorsal and ventral flaps are united by horse-hair sutures. When the whole penis has to be removed, the urethral opening should be placed in the perineum, and if possible the testes should be conserved. The infected glands in the groin should be removed at the same time. Functional Disturbances of the Male Sexual Organs.— Priapism.—This term is applied to painful, persistent, and irre- ducible erection of the penis, unaccompanied by sexual desire. Priapism may be a symptom of such conditions as adherent prepuce, stone in the bladder or prostatic urethra, stricture of the urethra, or cystitis; and it is frequently present in cases of gonorrhoea, the penis becoming curved downwards—chordee. Under these circumstances it seldom causes prolonged suffering, and disappears with the removal of the exciting cause. Less marked forms of priapism, in which the penis is merely turgid without actual erection, are sometimes met with in injuries high up in the cord in young adults. The term essential priapism is employed when the erection cannot be attributed to any of the above causes. This is usually met with in young, vigorous men after a drunken sexual debauch, and appears to be due to injury of the corpora cavernosa with extravasation of blood into the erectile tissue. The condition, which may last without intermission for days or even weeks, is attended with excruciating pain which interferes with sleep. Painful spots and firm nodules may be detected on making pressure over the corpora cavernosa, particularly at the root of the penis. Sometimes there is difficulty in emptying the bladder. Relapses are not uncommon. The treatment consists in administering such drugs as chloral, bromides, belladonna, or morphin, and in the use of hot baths and warm anodyne applications. R. W. Taylor recoi 14m ends the making of small incisions in the most turgid parts, and in the nodular swellings at the root of the penis. Impotence and Sterility.—It is necessary to distinguish between impotence, which is the inability to perform the sexual act, and sterility, which is the inability to beget children. The two conditions may be associated. Impotence may be due to deformities of the sexual organs,772 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. such as hypospadias or epispadias, or to some mechanical obstacle to coitus, such as curvature of the penis during erection from the presence of a scar in the erectile tissue. Apart from these conditions, the most frequent cause of impotence is incom- pleteness or absence of erection of the penis. This is frequently due to psychical causes, and is often met with in young men on the eve of marriage from fear of inability to perform their marital functions. In another group of cases it is due to over- stimulation by sexual excitement resulting in exhaustion of the nervous mechanism. In certain diseases of the nervous system, for example, locomotor ataxia, the power of erection is gradually lost. The prolonged and excessive use of certain drugs, such as opium, cocain, arsenic, camphor, or alcohol, may interfere with erection. Less common causes of impotence are premature ejaculation before erection is complete, and delayed ejaculation, the emission not taking place till after the penis has become flaccid. These conditions may result from chronic affections of the prostate and prostatic urethra. Sterility is due either to absence of semen or to abnormal composition of the fluid. In some cases no spermatozoa are present in the seminal fluid ejaculated—azoospermia. This may be due to spermatozoa not being formed by the testes, as a result of atrophy or disease. When both testes are undescended, spermatozoa may be absent from the semen. There is reason to believe that prolonged exposure to the X-rays induces azoospermia. Azoospermia may be temporary or permanent according to the condition to which it is due. In other cases, although the sexual act is performed, no seminal fluid is ejaculated—aspermia. This is usually due to some obstruction in the seminal tract, for example, obliteration of the vas deferens or ejaculatory duct from gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion or from the presence of concretions, or to stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. When there is a tight stricture of the urethra, the semen may pass back into the bladder, and subsequently be passed in the urine, in which spermatozoa may be foqnd on microscopic examination. Aspermia may exist temporarily as a result of congestive or inflammatory conditions in the ducts or urethra. The presence of a tight stricture of the urethra with fistulae behind it through which the semen escapes also involves sterility. As there is reason to believe that in one case out of every six in which marriage is unfruitful the husband is the sterile partner, when no obvious cause of sterility is found in the wife, anIMPOTENCE AND STERILITY. 773 examination of the husband should be made, special attention being directed to the condition of the testes, prostate, and urethra, and the fluid ejaculated should also be examined micro- scopically. When a stricture is present, the urine should be examined for spermatozoa shortly after connection. The prognosis and treatment of these conditions vary with their cause. When due to gross anatomical defects or to organic lesions either of the sexual organs or of the centre 1 nervous system, they are for the most part permanent and incurable. When they result from psychical and moral causes, the functions may be restored by general treatment directed towards the neurasthenia. The patient should be encouraged by the assurance that his condition is temporary and curable. Electrical treatment, and the use of such drugs as strychnin, cantharides, and phosphorus are often beneficial. All forms of local treatment are to be avoided, and the patient should abstain from intercourse for a time. When the condition is due to drug habits, recovery usually ensues if the habit is broken.774 APPENDIX. ANAESTHETICS. The term “anaesthesia” was suggested by Oliver Wendell Holmes when, in 1846, Morton first demonstrated that the inhalation of ether abolished consciousness and the sensation of pain. General anaesthesia may be defined as a state of unconscious- ness and of insensibility to external impressions that will allow of a surgical operation being performed painlessly; while local anaesthesia is a condition of insensibility to painful stimuli in a restricted portion of the body, unaccompanied by loss of con- sciousness. General Anaesthesia. The general anaesthetics most frequently employed for pro- longed operations are chloroform, ether, and certain mixtures of these. The mixture we have found most useful consists of one part of chloroform and two of ether, for convenience spoken of as the CE. mixture. For brief operations inhalations of nitrous oxide, chloride of ethyl, or a combination of these, are com- monly employed. Preparation of the Patient for a General Anaesthetic.— Except in cases of emergency, the patient should be prepared for the amesthetic by having his diet and general mode of living regulated for a few days. When it is possible, he should be kept at rest in hospital or in a nursing home for two or three days, although he need not be confined to bed during the whole of this period. A purgative should be administered about thirty-six hours before the operation, and the lower bowel cleared out by an enema some hours before its actual performance. No solid food should be given within twenty-four hours, but it is well to give the patient a cup of beef-tea or clear soup three or four hours before. Starving is often overdone, especially in delicateCHLOROFORM. 775 patients. If the patient is very feeble or collapsed, a pint of saline solution containing an ounce of brandy should be injected into the rectum half an hour before the operation. Milk should not be given before an operation, as it coagulates in the stomach, and if there is vomiting, the solid curd is liable to be drawn into the air-passages. When there is vomiting of the stagnant contents of the stomach or intestine, as in cases of gastric dilata- tion or intestinal obstruction, the stomach should be washed out before giving an anaesthetic. The preliminary administration of one-tliird of a grain of morphin and one-hundredth of a grain of atropin is sometimes of service in operations on the brain or in alcoholic or maniacal patients. In some cases, and especially when the patient is collapsed before operation, from live to ten minims of liquor strychninae injected hypodermically is of service, and this may be repeated if necessary. Before administering an anaesthetic inquiry must be made as to the presence in the mouth of artificial teeth or other loose bodies, such as sweets in the case of children, and pieces of tobacco in male hospital patients, as they are liable to fall back into the throat and cause choking. As a rule, it is advisable to put the patient on the operating table before beginning to administer the anaesthetic, and it is best to place him in the position he is to occupy during the operation, so that it may not be necessary to disturb him after he is amesthetised, as this frequently causes vomiting and allows the patient to come out. During the early stages, the administrator should speak to the patient so as to reassure and encourage him ; and once he is beginning to go under the anaesthetic, the preparation of the part to be operated on may be commenced. It is needless to say that the whole attention of the admin- istrator must be given to the patient. Chloroform.—The anmsthetic properties of chloroform were discovered by James Young Simpson in 1817. Chloroform for anaesthetic purposes is prepared from pure ethyl alcohol or from methyl alcohol. We have found methyl chloroform to be as good in every way as chloroform made from ethyl alcohol. Chloroform may be administered with a napkin or towel, or with a mask covered with lint, which should be put on with the smooth side outwards, and the chloroform is sprinkled on the inside of the mask or towel from a drop-bottle. A space of about half an inch should be allowed to intervene between the mask and the patient’s face to allow free airway, and the chloroform should never be poured on in such quantities as to saturate the776 AN /ESTHETICS. lint and cause dripping. In inducing anaesthesia with chloroform the vapour should be well mixed with air until the patient gets accustomed to it, but after the first two minutes, as he is losing consciousness, the proportion of chloroform should be gradually increased ; the vapour inhaled, however, should always contain a considerable proportion of air. Six minutes may be considered a fairly reasonable time in which to induce full anaesthesia. If struggling occurs, the chloroform must be with- drawn until it has subsided, as it is dangerous to push the drug during its continuance. No absolute rule can be given, but for the majority of operations proper anaesthesia cannot be considered present unless the following signs are observed :—(1) The breathing is auto- matic, like that of a person asleep, with a soft, quiet snore; (2) the conjunctival reflex is abolished; (3) the pupil is contracted and fixed, or sluggishly mobile to light; (4) muscular relaxation is complete; (5) the cough and vomiting reflexes are abolished. When chloroform vapour is introduced into a closed room lighted or heated by coal-gas or paraffin, it is decomposed and phosgene gas is given off. This pungent gas is highly irritating to the mucous membranes, particularly of the respiratory and alimentary passages, and causes coughing, vomiting, and some- times intense headache. If it is necessary to operate under chloroform in a room lighted by gas or paraffin, the top of the window should be kept open in order that the phosgene, which is lighter than air, may escape. Ether.—There are two methods of administering this anaes- thetic—the open and the close methods. In patients who are not habituated to alcohol, ether admin- istered by the open method, after a preliminary injection of morphin and atropin, is an ideal means of inducing surgical anaesthesia. It is best given on a frame mask covered with stockinet, the ether being dropped on the mask continuously till narcosis is produced. The Close Method.—The administration of ether by the close method involves the use of an inhaler consisting of—(1) a face-piece with a pneumatic pad or cushion ; (2) an ether chamber ; (3) a rubber bag of about one gallon capacity. There are a variety of inhalers in use, of which Clover’s and Ormsby’s may be taken as the two types. In the first-named the ether lies entirely in a special reservoir situated between the face-piece and the bag. In the latter, the ether lies partly in the bag and partly on a sponge which is placed between the face-piece and the bag. An ounce and a half of ether is placed in the chamber of theETHER AND CHLOROFORM. 777 inhaler, or in the bag, according to the type of inhaler used. The face-piece is brought within about an inch of the face (which has been turned to one side), and the patient is requested to breathe regularly. In a few seconds the face-piece is brought nearer, and finally closely adapted to the face, care being taken to catch a few expirations, and so have some air in the bag to mix with the ether vapour. If the inhaler is of the Clover type, the ether is slowly turned on by rotating the chamber around its own axis; if of the Ormsby type, by slowly raising the bag containing the ether and sprinkling the anaesthetic over the sponge. As the ether is added, the patient may cough and choke a little, but if no attempt is made to make him inhale a strong vapour before he is partly unconscious, this will generally pass off, and, if the administration is judiciously conducted, anaesthesia will be complete in about five minutes. When the patient is once under, less ether need be given, and a breath of air—one inspira- tion—should be allowed in every five breaths, the ensuing expiration being caught in the bag so as to maintain a supply of air which is not de-oxygenated. The inhaler can be kept applied by means of one hand, the thumb and forefinger grasp- ing the face-piece, while the other fingers push the ascending ramus of the jaw forwards. Mixtures of Ether and Chloroform.—The use of a mixture of alcohol, chloroform, and ether, known as ACE., has been much advocated as a substitute for chloroform or ether alone, but this combination cannot be considered an ideal one, as the alcohol evaporates at a much slower rate than the other con- stituents, so that the lint or sponge becomes saturated with alcohol and refuses to take up any chloroform or ether. The most useful mixture is chloroform, one part, and ether, two parts—for convenience spoken of as CE. mixture. It is an excellent anaesthetic for all classes of patients except the worst of alcoholics and drug-takers. It is best given on a conical mask made of celluloid or metal, with flannel or sponge inside to take up the anaesthetic. The signs of anmstliesia are almost identical with those when chloroform is employed, except that the breathing is more like that when ether alone is employed. It is important to bear in mind, however, that the mixture is weak chloroform and not strong ether, and that it must on no account be given in a close inhaler with the bag. It is quite permissible, how- ever, to give it in a Clover’s inhaler ivithout the bag, and this method has been largely used.AN AESTHETICS. 778 Ethyl Chloride.—In 1896, Carlson, of Gothenburg, drew attention to the fact that ethyl chloride possesses general as well as local anaesthetic properties. Since then it has been increasingly used for general anaesthesia, and is now regarded as a comparatively safe and reliable anaesthetic for minor opera- tions, such as the removal of tonsils and adenoids. The dose varies from three to five cubic centimetres. It can be ad- ministered by spraying it into the bag of a Clover’s inhaler and attaching the face-piece, or a special inhaler may be employed. Anaesthesia is induced in about sixty seconds, and lasts for from one to two minutes after a single administration, but the anaesthesia can be kept up by repeated doses. It is sometimes employed to induce anajsthesia prior to the administration of chloroform or ether for prolonged operations. The Choice of an Anaesthetic.—So much depends on the personal preference of the individual surgeon, the custom and traditions of different schools and hospitals, and the experience and capacity of the administrator, that no rigid rules can be laid down regarding the choice of an anaesthetic., In general terms it may be said that the following points require to be taken into consideration : the age and general condition of the patient; the nature and probable duration of the operation; and the position of the patient during its performance. Chloroform and ether (CE.) mixture is, as a rule, suitable for children under five and for adults over sixty. In vigorous adults from eighteen to forty-five, anaesthesia may be induced with some other anaesthetic than chloroform, as there is some risk during the struggling stage. Experience has shown that in organic heart - disease, if compensation is present, anaesthetics are remarkably well borne; if compensation is failing, CE. mixture should be used in preference to chloroform alone. For patients with renal disease, chloroform or CE. mixture answers best. In patients suffering from phthisis the CE. mixture is to be preferred, while in the presence of bronchitis, chloroform is best given alone. In intra-cranial operations and in operations within the mouth and pharynx, anaesthesia should be induced with CE. mixture and maintained with chloroform. If the operation necessitates that the patient’s head and shoulders be raised to any extent, chloroform should not be given under any circumstances. The administrator should provide himself with the following articles before undertaking any anaesthesia :— A four-ounce bottle of chloroform ; a six-ounce bottle ofDANGERS ARISING DURING ANAESTHESIA. 779 ether; a napkin, or frame mask covered with two layers of lint; an ether inhaler; a wooden wedge for forcing open the jaws ; a strong gag, such as Mason’s or Fergusson’s; two hypodermic syringes; a 1 per cent, solution of strychnin; a few ounces of brandy; a pair of tongue forceps; a rough towel; a small basin; and a tracheotomy tube and the other instruments necessary for performing tracheotomy. Dangers arising during Ansesthesia.—As it is usually at the commencement of the administration that alarming symptoms develop, particularly when chloroform is being used, the patient must be most carefully watched, and the vapour must be well diluted with air and be very gradually made stronger. Once the patient is fully narcotised very little is necessary to keep him under, but the administration must be continuous, as there is considerable risk of syncope if he is allowed to come out by intermittent use of the drug. The early stages of ether administration are attended with much less risk. The dangers arising during the administration of an anaes- thetic are due either to depression or failure of the circulation, or to embarrassment of the respiration. Frequently these conditions coexist, but it is convenient to consider them separately. Circulatory depression or failure may be due to the toxic action of the anaesthetic, or to some cause connected with the operation. For example, syncope may occur during the early stages of anaesthesia, and more particularly of chloroform anaesthesia, from cardiac inhibition due to reflex stimulation of the vagus from the use of too concentrated a vapour. Or it may occur later from absorption of an overdose, which causes paralysis of the cardiac centre in the medulla, and of the heart itself. On the other hand, cardiac failure may arise from conditions apart from the anaesthetic used, the most important of which are—(1) mental perturbation, for example, at the very com- mencement of the administration; (2) raising the patient into the sitting posture while he is still under the influence of chloroform ; (3) nausea, or threatened vomiting; (4) shock and loss of blood from the operation. The most prominent symptoms are pallor, often appearing very suddenly, rapid failure of the pulse and respiration, and wide dilatation of the pupils. The pulse and respiration may fail simultaneously or within a few seconds of one another. In the syncope which occurs during the early stages of ansesthesia, the onset is extremely rapid and the condition is one of great danger780 ANAESTHETICS. and frequently proves fatal. That which occurs later, while the operation is in progress, comes on more gradually, and treatment is more frequently successful. Respiratory difficulty may be due to an overdose of the anaesthetic, and is then often associated with cardiac failure. It may also be due to obstruction of the respiratory passages, for example, from—(1) falling back of the tongue; (2) spasm of the muscles of the jaw and neck; (3) spasm of the ary- epiglottic folds of the larynx ; (4) general spasm of the respiratory muscles, including the intercostals ; (5) the position of the patient, for example, the completely prone position; (6) foreign bodies entering the air-passages, such as vomited matter, blood-clot, accumulated mucus, or an artificial denture. The characteristic symptoms are : increasing stertor or cessa- tion of the breathing, duskiness of the lips, ears, and face, increasing to cyanosis. When the obstruction is mechanical, the chest continues to heave without air entering or leaving it, and .unless the cause of obstruction is removed the patient becomes completely asphyxiated. Under these circumstances the condi- tion is seldom fatal, as the heart usually continues beating for some time after the respiration has ceased, and there is time to remove the obstruction and carry out artificial respiration. Treatment.—From the point of view of treatment, patients in the conditions described above may be divided clinically into those who become pale and those who become cyanosed. When the patient shows signs of approaching syncope, it can often be warded off by rubbing the lips and face vigorously with a rough towel. In dealing with patients who have become pale from a circulatory failure or a combination of this with respiratory failure, the head should be lowered, and, in the case of children, the body may be completely inverted; the tongue is drawn out with forceps and held by an assistant, while artificial respiration is promptly carried out. The movements must not be made more rapidly than in normal respiration, that is, about eighteen or twenty to the minute. Care must be taken that the chest is firmly contracted by pressing the patient’s elbows well into his sides, and then fully expanded by carrying the arms well above the head; an assistant or nurse should administer a hypodermic injection of strychnin, which may be supplemented by a dram of ether, and the introduction of about a pint of hot water into the rectum is often of great service. In desperate cases massage of the heart has been carried out. This has been done through an opening in the chest- wall made for the purpose, or, in the course of abdominalLOCAL ANESTHESIA. 781 operations, by squeezing the heart through the diaphragm. In four out of twenty-five recorded cases the patients recovered. Patients who become blue or cyanosed during anaesthesia do so as a rule from respiratory obstruction. A failing pulse may coexist: in the later stages and in more serious cases it always does. The cyanosis is more marked in the lips, ears, and malar prominences, and there is frequently spasm of the masseter muscle. The first thing to be done is to open the patient’s mouth with a wooden wedge or a gag and pull out the tongue. If this does not clear the air-way, the finger should be swept round the fauces to ascertain if is there is any solid matter lying there. If there is nothing to be found, tracheotomy or laryngotomy should be performed, and artificial respiration carried out by Sylvester’s method. The withdrawal of several ounces of blood by opening the external jugular vein is often beneficial. The term delayed chloroform poisoning has been applied to a condition which occasionally follows the administration of this anaesthetic, particularly in children suffering from acute infective conditions. It is associated with the presence of acetone in the urine—post-ancesthetic acetonuria—and the symptoms, which have hitherto been attributed to delayed shock or sepsis, appear to depend on defective excretion of acetone due to degenerative changes in the epithelium of the kidneys and liver induced by the anaesthetic. Local Anaesthesia . The operations that may suitably be performed under local anaesthesia are those in which the field of operation is com- paratively limited and comparatively superficial, and in which the extent of the dissection can be determined with certainty before the operation is begun. Operations in deeply-seated tissues and on tumours of uncertain extent and attachments are unsuitable for local anaesthesia. It is to be borne in mind that the sensibility of different tissues in the body vairies greatly : the skin, for example, is highly sensitive, the subcutaneous fat, muscles, tendons, and fasciae much less so; periosteum, again, is very sensitive, while bone denuded of its periosteum is for all practical purposes devoid of sensation. Lennander’s observa- tions have shown that while the parietal peritoneum is very sensitive to all forms of stimulation, the visceral peritoneum and most of the abdominal viscera are insensitive. Hence, when for any reason a general anaesthetic is contra-indicated, if the tissues of the abdominal wall and the parietal peritoneum are injectedANAESTHETICS. 782 with a local anaesthetic, such operations as herniotomy, colostomy, gastrostomy, or gastro-enterostomy may be performed painlessly. The drugs most frequently employed for the production of local anaesthesia are cocain hydrochlo7'ate, eucain JS, and stovain, and it has been shown that if these are combined with small doses of the active principle of the supra-renal gland, their anaesthetic action is increased, and the risk of poisoning by absorption is diminished. The properties and relative value of cocain and eucain B for local anaesthesia may be summed up as follows (J. W. Struthers): —Both drugs act powerfully as local analgesics. Cocain acts as a vaso-constrictor; eucain as a vaso-dilator. For intra-neural injection they give equal results. Cocain diffuses among the tissues more readily than eucain, and is therefore preferable for perineural injection and infiltration anaesthesia, acting more surely and more quickly than eucain. Cocain is more toxic than eucain, and should not be used in doses of more than 1 grain in per cent, solution, or 2 grains in 1 in 1000 solution when combined with adrenalin, while eucain may be used in doses of 2-6 grains in corresponding solutions. Eucain should be used when very large quantities of solution are likely to be required for infiltration. Eucain solutions may be boiled without losing their analgesic power; cocain solutions are neutralised by boiling. Stovain is less suitable for local anaesthesia than either cocain or eucain. Infiltration Anaesthesia.—In this method the solution is injected into the subcutaneous tissue close below the true skin in sufficient quantity to produce a moderate distension or oedema of the whole field of operation. Endermic injections are not necessary to render the skin analgesic. Marked blanching of the skin appears in three or four minutes from the vaso-con- strictor action of the adrenalin ; from ten to twenty minutes should be allowed to elapse before commencing the operation; the analgesia lasts for about two hours. In operating under local anaesthesia the tissues should be cut with a sharp knife, all blunt dissection or dragging on the parts being avoided. As the analgesia wears off, there is sometimes a considerable degree of “ reactionary pain,” which may last for some hours. The following solutions are recommended for inducing infiltration anaesthesia: (1) Cocain hydrochlorate, 1 grain; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 12 drops; solution sodium chloride (-75 per cent.), 2 ounces. (2) Eucain lactate, 1 grain ; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 5 drops; sodiumSPINAL ANAESTHESIA. 783 chloride solution (‘75 per cent.), 10 drachms (-T. W. Struthers). As much as four ounces of the solution may with safety be injected, but it is seldom necessary to use this quantity. Among the operations for which infiltration anaesthesia is suitable may be mentioned : Thiersch skin-grafting, removal of small epitheliomata, rodent cancers, wens, dermoid cysts, ganglia, or bursae; tendon suture; tracheotomy; rib resection for empyema ; piles, fissure, and anal fistulae ; circumcision, etc. Regional Anaesthesia.—By injecting cocain into, or imme- diately round, a nerve trunk, a physiological block on the nerve may be produced, with resulting motor and sensory paralysis in the area of its distribution distal to the level of the injection—- regional or conduction anaesthesia. Oberst has pointed out that fingers, toes, and extremities generally can be rendered anaes- thetic if cocain is injected round the nerves supplying them, and localised to the site of injection by the application of a tourniquet loosely on the proximal side of the level of injection. By Oberst’s method such operations as opening a whitlow of the tendon sheath, removal of sequestra from the phalanges, excisions of interphalangeal joints, or partial amputations of the digits, can be painlessly performed. The solution recommended is: Cocain, 1 grain; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 8 drops; solution sodium chloride (‘75 per cent.), 4 drachms. From 20 to 40 minims of this solution will render a finger com- pletely anaesthetic. Braun has extended this method to more extensive operations on the extremities, injecting the solution around the main nerves of supply to the region to be operated upon. His method is par- ticularly useful in dealing with suppurative conditions in the palm, in removing needles from the hand or foot, or for partial amputations of the hand or foot. Spinal Anaesthesia.—It has been shown that the injection of certain drugs into the spinal sub-arachnoid space by lumbar puncture (p. 18) induces anaesthesia of the areas supplied by the lower dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves, and admits of opera- tions on the lower extremities, rectum, and pelvic organs being carried out painlessly. Bier, of Bonn, who first placed this method on a practical basis, after an experience of over a thou- sand cases, now uses ’05 grammes of tropacocain in isotonic solution without the addition of adrenalin. This is diluted with cerebro-spinal fluid allowed to escape through the cannula used for injection to make up 6 or 8 c.c. Stovain, with or without the addition of adrenalin, has been extensively used for producing spinal anaesthesia, but, according to Bier, this784 AN AESTHETICS. drug, like cocain, novocain, and eucain, is less safe and certain than tropacocain. The anaesthesia thus induced is frequently accompanied by serious complications, such as collapse, sickness, vomiting, and sometimes paralysis of respiration; it often leaves severe and persistent headache and neuralgic. pains in the limbs, and its extent and duration cannot be accurately controlled. The mortality is little less than that attending the administra- tion of chloroform, and is greater than that of ether. For these reasons, and in view of the fact that the patient is conscious of what is being done during the operation, it cannot be said that spinal anaesthesia possesses any material advantages over general anaesthesia. Freezing with Ethyl Chloride.—A limited area of the skin may be rendered anaesthetic by freezing it with a spray of chloride of ethyl projected through a line nozzle from a glass or metal cylinder. The cylinder is held at a distance of from eight to ten inches from the skin, and a line spray projected on to the area to be incised. After a few seconds the skin becomes hard and white in round patches which coalesce as it freezes, and it remains insensitive for three or four minutes. Only short opera- tions, for example, the incision of an abscess or whitlow, or the insertion of an aspirator needle, can be carried out under the anaesthesia produced by this method.INDEXINDEX Abbe’s treatment of stricture of oesophagus, 271 Abdominal abscess, 535 haemorrhage, 347 muscles, rupture of, 345 section, 345 viscera, gun-shot wounds of, 350. See also individual viscera protrusion of, 349 sensibility of, 344, 781 subcutaneous injuries of, 346 wall, abscess of, 351 actinomycosis of, 351 contusion of, 345 fibroma of, 352 lisematoma of, 345 inflammation of, 351 lipoma of, 352 recurrent fibroid of Paget, 352 rupture of muscles of, 345 stabs of, 349 suppuration of, 351 surgical anatomy of, 342 wounds of, 349 Abducens nerve, 77 Abductor paralysis, 80 bilateral, 284 Abnormal anus, 509 Abscess. See also individual orgaus and regions abdominal, 535 alveolar, 165 of breast, 324, 326 chronic, non-tuberculous, 326 cold, of belly, 366 in Cowper’s gland, 698 dorsal, 112 extra-dural, 53 hepatic, 518 Abscess, iliac, 113, 114 intra-mammary, 325 isehio-rectal, 114, 580 of kidney, 629 lumbar, 113 of lung, 312 mammary, 324, 326 marginal, of anus, 579 of pancreas, 542 pelvi-rectal, 582 perianal, 579 peri-appendicular, 380, 383 perigastric, 451 perinephric, 646 perirenal, 629 peri-uretliral, 698, 709 peri-vesical, 671 pre-mammary, 325 prostatic, 713, 714 psoas, 112, 113 of rectum, 578 renal, 629 retro-mammary, 326 retro-pharyngeal, 109, 163, 201 of spleen, 550 sub-dural, 55 sub-gluteal, 113, 114 sub-occipital, 110 sub-phrenic, 371 tropical, of liver, 518 Accessory nasal sinuses. See in- dividual sinuses ACE. anaesthetic mixture, 777 Acetonuria, post-anaesthetic, 781 Actinomycosis. See individual organs and regions Adenoids, 232 Adrenal tumours, 647 Adrenalin in local anaesthesia, 782, 783788 INDEX. Agraphia, 13 Air passages. See Larynx, Trachea, Bronchi Air sinuses, accessory. See individual sinuses Albert’s gastrostomy, 440 Albuminuria, 610 Alcohol poisoning, 28 Alexander on operation for epilepsy, 74 Algave on floating kidney, 616 Alveolar abscess, 165 process, fracture of, 176 tumours of, 170 Amazia, 320 American “crow-bar” case, 21 Anaesthesia, 774 conduction, 783 general, dangers arising during, 779 preparation for, 774 infiltration, 782 . local, 774 solutions for, 782, 783 operations suitable for, 781, 783 regional, 783 spinal, 784 Anaesthetic agents, 774 choice of, 778 mixtures, 777 Anal canal, absence of, 569 development of, 568 malformations of, 568 surgical anatomy of, 566 fissure, 587 Aneurysms. See individual regions and organs traumatic, of temporal, 8 Angina Ludoviei, 186, 202, 246 Annandale on intubation, 281 on operation for naso-pharyngeal tumour, 235 on prostatic retention, 724 Anorcliism, 737 Ano-rectal fistulse, 582 syphiloma, 575 Anosmia, 76, 232 Antitoxin, diphtheria, 283 Antrum of Highmore. See Maxillary antrum Anuria, 609 calculous, 641 Anus, abnormal, 509 abscess of, 578 absence of, 568 Anus, artificial, 468, 509, 512 epithelioma of, 602 fissure of, 587 imperforate, 569 malformations of, 568 occlusion of, 568 prolapse of, 602 pruritis of, 605 surgical anatomy of, 566. Aphasia, varieties of, 13 Aphonia, 281 Aphthous stomatitis, 154 Apoplexy, 28 traumatic, delayed, 33 Apostole’s method of treating uterine fibroids, 565 Appendectomy, 393 Appendicitis, abscess in, 380, 383 in children, 394 chronic, 391 clinical features of, 382 colic in, 392 complications of, 390 concretions in, 378 diagnosis of, 385 during pregnancy, 394, 395 fulminating, 359, 384 in hernial sac, 430 obliterans, 391 in the old, 394 operation for, 388, 389 pathological anatomy of, 378 pelvic, 376, 384 peritonitis in, 379, 380, 381 recurrent, 380, 382, 391 retro-c*cal, 376, 383 retro-colic, 376, 383 treatment of, 387 Appendicostomy, 505 Appendicular colic, 392 concretions, 378 Appendix, vermiform, acting as a band, 480 actinomycosis of, 395 hernia of, 430 intussusception of, 488 malignant disease of, 395 perforation of, 379 surgical anatomy of, 376 tuberculosis of, 395 Areola. See Nipple Arthritis deformans. See individual joints Artificial anus, 468INDEX. 789 Ascites, cliylous, 370 operation for, 523 tuberculous, 365 Aspergillus in ear, 215 Aspermia, 772 Aspiration of empyema, 307 Asthma of nasal origin, 232 thymic, 250 Athelia, 320 Atlo-axoid disease, 109 joint, fracture-dislocation of, 102 tuberculosis of, 109 Auditory nerve, 79 Aural polypi, 210 Auricles. See Ear, external cervical, 238 Auricular appendages, 212 Avulsion of scalp, 4 Azoospermia, 772 Back, broken, 101 Bacteriology of intestine, 466 Bacteriuria, 610, 663 Balanitis, 764, 767 Ball, Sir Chas., on pruritis ani, 606 Ballance, on mastoid operation, 220 Ballooned rectum, 577 Bandage, four-tailed, 179 Bands, peritoneal, 367 Banks-Mitchell, on radical cure of hernia, 416 Bartholin’s glands, inflammation in, 701 Basal meningitis, 55 Basedow’s disease, 261 Bassini on radical cure of hernia, 416 Battle, W. H., on radical cure of femoral hernia, 422 Baumgarten, on tuberculosis of testis, 746 Beatson, on cancer of breast, 341 Bell’s paralysis, 78 Belly-ache, 113 Bennett, E. H., on fracture of ribs, 293 Bergmann, von, on head injuries, 24, 41, 47 Berry, James, on cleft-palate, 140 Beyea’s operation of gastropexy, 460 Bezold’s mastoiditis, 218 Bier, on spinal anaesthesia, 783 Bier’s suction bell, 325 Bigelow’s litholapaxy,'675 Bile-ducts. See Gall-bladder and individual ducts Billiarzia haematobia, 651 Biliary calculi, 527 colic. 525, 528, 636 fistulas, 354, 535 “Bilious attack,” 385 Billroth, on resection of stomach, 457 Bircher’s gastroplication, 460 Black-eye, 49, 145 Bladder, animal parasites in, 651 calculus, 671 encysted 673 in female, 678 on foreign body, 662 hour-glass, 673 operations for, 675 primary, 671 recurrence of, 678 secondary, 671 sounding for, 674 cancer of, 679 cysts of, 680 dermoid cysts of, 681 distended, 654 diverticula of, 680 drainage of, 656 examination of, 654 cystoscopic, 610 extroversion of, 657 fasciculated, 666 foreign bodies in, 662 functional disturbances of, 681 hernia of, 431 hydatid disease of, 681 hysterical affections of, 681 inflammation of, 664. See also Cystitis instillation of, 668 irrigation of, 668 malformations of, 657 neuropathic affections of, 681 operations on, 655. See also in- dividual operations papilloma of, 678 pouches of, 680 retro-prostatic pouch, 712, 718 rupture of, 659 sarcoma of, 680 sounding for stone of, 674 “ stammering ” of, 682 stone. See Bladder, calculus surgical anatomy of, 653 suture of, 661 tuberculosis of, 669 tumours of, 678, 679, 680INDEX. 790 Bladder, villous growth of, 678 wounds of, 662 Blandin’s gland, cysts of, 203 Blepharospasm, 79 Bottini’s operation on prostate, 721, 722, 725 Bougies, 704, 705 oesophageal, 264 Bowel. See Intestine Boyd, F. D., on gastric ulcer, 445 Brachial plexus, wounds of, 246 Brachio-thoracic triangle, 128 Brain, abscess of, 56, 61 localisation of, 58 operation for, 60 adhesions, 37 cerebral irritation, 24, 29 compression of, 21, 25 ditferential diagnosis of, 27 concussion of, 21, 22 contusion of, 29 cyst of, haemorrhagic, 31 ■ diseases of, 52 pyogenic, 52 functions of, 11 glioma of, 72 hernia of, 74 injuries, 29 mechanism of, 31 repair of, 31 laceration of, 29, 30 localisation of centres in, 14 membranes of, 9 diseases of, 52 motor area of, 11 sarcoma of, 72 sclerosis of, 37 softening of, 37 surgical anatomy of, 11 syphilitic gumma of, 72 traumatic oedema of, 36 tuberculosis of, 65, 66, 72 tumours of, 70 localisation of, 71 operations for, 73 wounds of, 36 Bramwell, Byrorn, on injuries of spine, 88, 89 Branchial carcinoma, 238, 249 cysts, 238, 247 fistulse, 237 Braun on local anaesthesia, 783 Breast, abscess of, acute, 324 chronic, 326 Breast, abscess of, residual, 326 actinomycosis of, 330 adeno-earcinoma of, 339 angioma of, 331 areola. See Nipple cancer of, 334 acute, 339 bilateral, 338 colloid, 339 encephaloid, 339 en cuirasse, 338 inoperable, 341 medullary, 339 oophorectomy in, 341 radical operation for, 340 carcinoma of, 334 chondroma of, 331 cysto-adenoma of, 333 cysts of, 330 diffuse hypertrophy of, 321 duct papilloma of, 330 examination of, 319 excision of, 340 fibro-adenoma of, 331 inflammation of, 328. See Mastitis lipoma of, 331 lymphatics of, 319 malformations of, 320 milk engorgement of, 324 multiple cystic disease of, 328 neuralgia of, 330 osteoma of, 331 physiological engorgement of, 323 sarcoma of, 333 scirrhus of, 334 atrophic, 338 in male, 335 surgical anatomy of, 318 tuberculosis of, 329 Breathing exercises after empyema, 309 Broca’s convolution, 11 Broken-back, 101 Bronchi, foreign bodies in, 289 Bronchial glands, 317 Bronchiectasis, 312 Bronchocele, 253. See Goitre Bronchoscopy, 278 Brophy’s operation for cleft palate, 142 Bruns on fracture of base of skull, 47 Bubo, gonorrhoeal, 695 Bubonocele, 409 Bursal swellings in neck, 248INDEX. 791 Butlin on affections of tongue, 187, 190, 193 on diverticula of oesophagus, 276 Cachexia strumipriva, 259 Caecum, hernia of, 430 volvulus of, 483 Caird, F. M., on gastric ulcer, 446, 44 i on strangulated hernia, 406 Calculus, anuria from, 641 appendicular, 378 biliary, 527 in bladder. Sec Bladder, Calculus cystin, 633 encysted, 673 hour-glass, 673 in kidney, 393-633 latent, 635 mulberry, 672 oxalate of lime, 633 pancreatic, 543 pliosphatic, 633-672 preputial, 768 primary, 671 prostatic, 725, 726 renal, 393-633 secondary, 671 urates, 633 in ureter, 634 urethral, 691 uric acid, 633, 671 urinary, 633 vesical, 671. See Bladder, Calculus X-rays in diagnosis of, 637 Cancer. See individual organs and regions Cancer en cuirasse, 338 Cancerous cachexia, 338 Canerum oris, 155, 168 Carbuncle, on chest wall, 302 Carcinoma. See individual organs and regions Cardiolysis, 315 Cardiospasm, 274, 461 Cargil membrane, 38 Carlson, discovered ethyl chloride anaesthesia, 778 Carotid gland, tumours of, 250 tubercle, 85, 236 Castration, 735, 740 for enlarged prostate, 724 Cathcart’s bladder drainage apparatus, 657 Catheter fever, 710 “Catheter life,” 723 Catheters, 655, 723 Cauda equina, 86 injuries of, 95 Caudal appendage, 124-125 Cavernous sinus, phlebitis of, 65 CB. anfestlietic mixture, 774, 777 Cellulitis. See individual regions and organs Cephal-hasmatoma, 2, 67 Cephal-hydroeele, 67, 68 Cephaloceles, 66 operations for, 68 Cerebellum, abscess of, 59 operation for, 61 Cerebral abscess, 56 apoplexy, 28 centres, 10 embolism, 28 hyperpyrexia, 26 irritation, 24, 29, localisation, 14 oedema, 36 shock, 21 softening, 37 tumours, 70 vomiting, 56 Cerebro-spinal fluid, 10, 19 escape of, in fractures of skull, 48,49 Cerebrum. See Brain Cervical auricles, 238 caries, 109 fascia, 237 glands, 247 ribs, 249 sympathetic, 81, 111 Chest. Surgical anatomy of, 291 thoracic viscera, injuries of, 296 wall, diseases of, 301 injuries of, 292 strapping of, 294 tumours of, 303 Chetwood on plastic operation on anal sphincters, 607 Cheyne-Stoke’s respiration, 26-30 Chej'ne, Watson, on hydrocephalus, 70 Chiene, John, on hypospadias, 688 method of cerebral localisation, 14 on retro-pharyngeal abscess, 110 Chiene’s bougies, 705 Chloroform, 775 decomposition of, 776 poisoning, delayed, 781792 INDEX. Cholaemia, 517 Cholangitis, 525, 531 Cholecyst-enterostomy, 535 Cholecystectomy, 530 Cholecystitis, 525, 536 Choleeystotomy, 530 Choledoch-enterostomy, 535 Choledochotomy, 533 Cholelithiasis, 525 Cliolesteatomata, 217 Chorda-tympani nerve, 78, 79 Chordee, 696, 697 Chylous ascites, 370 cysts, 369 hydrocele, 758 Cilio-spiual reflex, 81 Circumcision, 764 Cirsoid aneurysm of scalp, 8 Clark, Sir Andrew, on catheter fever, 710 Cleft palate, 136, 138 Clergyman’s throat, 158 Cloaca! membrane, 568 Closure of jaw, 183 Cocain for local anaesthesia, 782, 784 Coccydynia, 118 Cock.’s perineal section, 708 Coin-catcher, 268 Colectomy, 468 Colic, appendicular, 392 biliary, 525, 528, 636 intestinal, 385 pancreatic stone, 636 renal, 635 Colitis, 386, 392, 393 intractable, 506 Colon, chronic inflammatory thicken- ing of, 506 congenital dilatation of, 495 volvulus of, 483 Colopexy, 605 Colostomy, 468 preliminary, 600 Colotomy, 468 Coma, varieties of, 28-29 Common bile duct, 436 cancer of, 538, 544 gall-stone obstruction of, 530 operations on, 533, 535 stones in, 545 stricture of, 534 Compression of brain, 21, 25 differential diagnosis of, 27 Concussion of brain, 21-22 Congenital malformations. See indi- vidual regions and organs Conjugate paralysis, 13 Contre-coup, 29, 41 Cord. See Spinal cord and Spermatic cord Coryza caseosa, 229 Costal cartilages, fracture of, 294 Cotterill, J. M., on osteoplastic operation on skull, 17 Courvoisier on cholecystitis, 537 Courvoisier’s law, 532 Cowper’s glands, abscess in, 698 Cranial nerves, surgical affections of, 75. See individual nerves Cranium. See Skull Crateriform ulcer, 338 Cretinism, 252 Crossed paralysis, 13 Cryoscopy, 613 Cryptorcbism, 737 Cunningham, D. J., on anatomy of stomach, 435 Cushing, on decompression operations on brain, 73 on hydrocephalus, 70 on intra - cranial haemorrhage in newly-born, 35, 36 Cut-throat, 243 Cutting for stone, 676 Cystectomy, 656 Cystic duct cancer of, 537 inflammation of, 536 stones in, 528 stricture of, 534 Cystic lymphangioma of neck, 248 Cystitis, acute, 665-666 chronic, 665-666 gangrenous, 666 gonorrhoeal, 668 in lesions of spinal cord, 669 membranous, 666 septic, 664 tuberculous, 669 typhoid, 669 Cystocele, 431 vaginal, 432 Cystoscope, 610 Cystostomy, 655 Cystotomy, 655 perineal, 656 supra-pubie, 656 Cysts. See individual organs and regions793 INDEX. Czerny-Lembert suture, 438 “ Dangerous area ” of scalp, 3 Davies-Colley on cleft palate, 142 Deafness, 206, 207 Decompression operations on brain, 73 Decortication of lung, 311 Deformities. See individual regions and organs Delageniere on operation for epilepsy, 74 Delorme on decortication of lung, 311 Dental caries, 165 Dentigerous cyst, 172 Dermoid cysts. See individual regions and organs Deve on hydatids of liver, 521 Diabetic coma, 29 Diaphragm, injuries of, 296, 315 Diaphragmatic hernia, 479 pleurisy, 316, 386 Diphtheria of larynx, 282 Diplacusis, 207 Dislocation of ribs, 294 of temporo-maxillary joint, 180 of testis, 741 Divarication of recti muscles, 426 Diverticula of bladder, 680 Diverticulitis, 385 Diverticulum, Meckel’s, 352 Dorsal abscess, 112 Dowden, J. W., on torsion of sper- matic cord, 742 Doyen’s method of occluding intestine, ‘ 468 Duct papilloma of breast, 333 Dudgeon and Sargent on peritonitis, 355 Duncan, John, on artificial anus, 572 operation for hare-lip, 140 Duodeno-choledochotomy, 533 Duodenum, surgical anatomy of, 435 ulcer of, 393, 462 perforation of, 385, 463 Duret, theory of concussion of brain, 23 on tuberculous meningitis, 65 Dysentery, 505 Dysphagia, 282 Dyspnoea, in goitre, 259 Bar, auricular appendages, 212 cardinal symptoms of disease of, 207 Ear, discharge from, 208 earache, 207 external, affections of, 212 aspergill us in, 215 boils in, 215 cancer of, 213 deformities of, 212 eczema of, 214 foreign bodies in, 215 furunculosis of, 215 lnematoma auris, 213 large, 213 outstanding, 213 polypi of, 210 syringing of, 214 tumours of, 213 wax in, 213 hearing tests, 208 inspection of, 209 middle, acute inflammation of, 216 chronic suppuration of, 217 inflation of, 210 perforation of membrane, 210 rupture of membrane, 216 noises in, 207 otorrhoea, 208 outstanding, 213 pain in, 207 physiology of, 206 surgical anatomy of, 206 vertigo, 208 Earache, 207 Echinococcus hominis, 651 Ectopia testis, 738 vesicae, 657 Ectopic gestation, 560 rupture of, 561 Ectropion, 144 Eczema capitis, 5 • Edebohls on surgery of kidney, 614, 651 Eiselsberg on hour-glass stomach, 454 Elongation of uvula, 157 Emissary veins, 1, 9 Emirhysema of scalp, 7, 48, 49 surgical, 296, 297, 300 Empyema, 305 bilateral, 310 chronic, 310 encysted, 305 of gall-bladder, 536 multilocular, 306 old-standing, 310 operation for, 307794 INDEX. Empyema, pneumococcal, 307 pyogenic, 305 with sinuses, 310 streptococcal, 307 tuberculous, 112, 310 Encephalitis, 55 Enceplialoeele, 66, 67 Endoscope, 687 Ensiform cartilage, fracture of, 296 Enterectomy, 468 Enteritis, acute, 385 Entero-anastomosis, 469 Enteroeele, 398 Enteroliths, 492 Enteropexy, 470 Enteroplasty, 470, 494 Enteroptosis, 514 Enterorraphy, 467 Enterostomy, 467 Entero-teratoma, 353 Enterotome, 512 Enterotomy, 466 Enterotribe, 468 Enuresis, 683 Epididymis, atrophy of, 757. See also Testis cysts of, 537 haunatocele of, encysted, 753 hydrocele of, encysted, 753 surgical anatomy of, 734 syphilis of, 749, 750 tuberculosis of, 746 acute, 749 Epididymitis, 743 acute, 743 alternating, 744 chronic, 744 gonorrhoeal, 743 non-gonorrhceal, 745 relapsing, 744 syphilitic, 749, 750 following injury of urethra, 745 Epididymo-orchitis, 743 Epigastric hernia, 427 Epilepsy, 73 Jacksonian, 13, 37 traumatic, 37 Epileptic coma, 28 habit, 38 Epiplocele, 398 Epispadias, 658, 688 Epistaxis, 230 Epithelioma. See individual regions and organs Epulis, 167, 170 Erichsen on cerebral irritation, 24 Erectile swelling in nose, 226 Erysipelas of scalp, 5 Esmarch, on fixation of jaw, 184 Estliinder-Schede operation, 311 Ether, anaesthesia, 776 inhalers, 776 Ethmoid air-cells, suppuration in, 232 Ethyl chloride, as general anaesthetic, ' 778 as local anaesthetic, 784 Eucain B. for local anaesthesia, 782- 784 Eustachian catheter, 211 Eventration, 475 Exclusion of intestine, 470 Ewald’s test-meal, 436 Exomphalos, 423 Exophthalmos, 149 Extra-dural abscess, 53 haemorrhage, 31 Extra-peritoneal tumours, 368 Extra-uterine gestation, 560 rupture of, 561 Extravasation of urine, 689, 708 Extroversion of bladder, 657 Eyeball, injuries of, 146 Face, cicatricial contraction of, 144 congenital malformations of, 135, 142 development of, 135 epithelioma of, 144 frog, 235 rodent cancer of, 145 tumours of, 144 wounds of, 143 Facial cleft, 143 nerve, 77 paralysis, 78, 79, 202 spasm, 79 Faecal accumulation, 502 concretions, 492 fistula, 354, 509 in appendicitis, 384, 390 vomiting, 404 Fallopian tube, affections of, 556, 560 False passages in urethra, 705 Fat necrosis, 541 Fauces, epithelioma of, 162 inflammation of, 157 tuberculosis of, 161795 INDEX. Femoral liernia, 113, 419. See also Hernia Feuger on hydronephrosis, 628 Fibroids, uterine, 563 Filaria sanguinis hominis, 651, 733, 758 Fingers, dead, 249 Finney on surgery of stomach, 441, 446, 447 Fissure of anus, 587 Fistula-in-ano, 582 tuberculous, 585 ano-rectal, 582 biliary, 354, 535 faecal, 354, 509 gastric, 451 gastro-colic, 451 internal, 513 of lip, 143 penile, 710 perineal, 708 recto-urethral, 586, 710 recto-vaginal, 570, 586 recto-vesical, 587 sacro-coccygeal, 125 scrotal, 733 umbilical, 354 urethral, 709 urinary, 354, 709 Fixation of jaw, 183 Foreign bodies. See individual regions and organs Fowler’s position, 344 Fractures. See individual regions and organs Fracture of, costal cartilages, 294 eusiform cartilage, 296 hyoid, 243 laryngeal cartilages, 243 nasal bones, 221 penis, 766 ribs, 292 spine, 99, 295 sternum, 294 tracheal cartilages, 243 Frank’s gastrostomy, 440 Frazier, on decompression operations, 73 Freezing with ethyl chloride, 784 point of blood, 613 Freyer, P. J., on prostatectomy, 721 Frog-face, 235 Frontal sinus, suppuration in, 231 Fuller, Eugene, on vesiculitis, 729 Fungus testis, 747, 749, 751 Funiculitis, 743 Furunculosis of ear, 215 Galactocele, 330 Gall-bladder, acute affections of, 386 adhesions of, 534 cancer of, 537 distension of, 526 empyema of, 536 enlargement of, 526 hydrops of, 526 inflammation of, 525, 536 injuries of, 538 operations on, 529, 530, 535, 537 stones in, 528 surgical anatomy of, 523 Gall-stone colic, 525 ileus, 490 Gall-stones, affection due to, 525 characters of, 527 in common bile duct, 530 sequel® of, 534 Galton’s whistle, 209 Gangrene. See individual regions and organs Garre on injuries of pancreas, 549 Gastrectasis, 460 Gastrectomy, 457 Gastric fistula, 451 tetany, 452 ulcer. See Stomach, ulcer of Gastro-anastomosis, 454 Gastro-colic fistula, 451 Gastro-duodenal catarrh, 385 Gastro-duodenostomy, 441, 446 Gastro-enterostomy, 440, 446 Gastro-jejunostomy, 441 Gastrolysis, 452 Gastropexy, 460 Gastroplasty, 454 Gastroplication, 460 Gastroptosis, 459 Gastrorrhagia, 446 Gastrostomy, 439 Gastrotomy, 269, 439 Genital organs. See individual organs Gerard-Marchant on cervical sym- pathetic, 81 Giddiness, 208 Gingivitis, 166 Girdle pain, 94. 100, 120 Gleet, 696, 699 Glenard’s disease, 514, 522796 INDEX. Glossitis, 186 Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 79 Gluteal abscess, 114 Goitre, 253 adenomatous, 259 colloid, 255 cystic, 255 exophthalmic, 261 fibrous, 255 iutra-thoracic, 255, 256 malignant, 260 parenchymatous, 254 retro-sternal, 255, 256 sudden dyspnoea in, 259 thyroidectomy for, 257 vascular, 255 Goldmann on spread of cancer, 338 Gonococcus, 694 Gonorrhoea, 694, 703 abortive treatment of, 697 bubo in, 695 in children, 701 complications of, 698 cystitis in, 668 in female. 700 spurious, 693 Gonorrhoeal pyaemia, 698 Gout, parotitis in, 201 orchitis in, 746 Gowers on anatomy of spinal cord, 86 oil cerebral tumours, 72 Grave’s disease, 261 Gravitation paraplegia, 90 Great omentum, 343, 344 Greig, D. M., on empyema, 308 Griffiths, on mal - developed testis, 739 Griissbaum and Sherrington on cerebral localisation, 10 Gubernaeulum testis, 736 Gubler oil peritonism, 471 Gullet. See (Esophagus Gum-boil, 165 Gummatous orchitis, 749 Gums, epithelioma of, 167 epulis, 167, 170 gum-boil, 165 hypertrophy of, 167 polypus of, 167 pyoirhcea alveolaris, 166 tumours of, 167 Gunshot wounds. See individual regions and organs Gutter fracture of skull, 44 Guy on on surgery of urinary organs, 648, 668, 690, 700 Gynecology, 552 Gynecomastia, 321 Gynecomazia, 321 Hacker, on gastro-enterostomy, 440 Hsematocele, encysted of epididymis, 753 of tunica vaginalis, 751, 761 Hcematoma auris, 213 of scalp, 2 of scrotum, 731 of sterno-mastoid, 239 Hsematomyelia, 90 Haematorrachis, 89 Hsematuria, 609 essential, 650 Haemophilia, renal, 650 Hsemo-pneumotliorax, 297 Haemoptysis, 296, 297, 300 Haemo-renal index, 613 Haemorrhage. See individual regions and organs extra-dural, 31 from external carotid, 34 intra-abdominal, 347 iutra-cranial, 29 in newly-born, 35 into lateral ventricles, 31 middle meningeal, 31 from venous sinuses, 34 Haemorrhagic cyst, 31 Haemorrhoids, 588. See Piles Haemothorax, 296, 299 Halm’s pyloroplasty, 440 trachea tube, 287 Hair-balls in stomach, 443 Halsted on adeno-carcinoma of breast, 339 on radical cure of hernia, 416 Hammer nose, 224 Hammond’s splint, 180 Hare-lip, 136, 138, 139 Harris, M. L., on nephropexy, 619 Harrison, Reginald, on prostatic re- tention, 724 on renal capsulotomy, 651 Head injuries, 20 after-effects of, 37 Hearing, impairment of, 206, 207 tests of, 208 Heai’t, foreign bodies in, 313, 314 injuries of, 296, 313INDEX. 797 Heart, massage of, in syncope during anaesthesia, 780 Heath on hypertrophy of gums, 167 Heidenhaiu, on cancer of breast, 340 Hemianopia, 76 Hemi-glossitis, 186 Hepatic abscess, 518 duct, cancer of,. 538 Hepatopexy, 523 Hepatoptosis, 522 Herczel on removal of spleen, 549 Hernia, 396 acquired, 397 of appendix 430 of bladder, 431 of caecum, 418, 430 in canal of Nuck, 410-431 cerebri, 74 through cicatrices, 427 congenital, 396, 397, 411, 413 crural, 419 diaphragmatic, 479 duodenal, 479 encysted, 412 epigastric, 427 extra-parietal, 417 false reduction of, 407 femoral, 113, 419 strangulated, 422 surgical anatomy of, 419 into foramen of Winslow, 479 incarcerated, 401 infantile, 412 inguinal, 409 in children, 417 congenital, 411, 413 direct, 409, 413 external, 409 into funicular process, 411 infantile, 412 internal, 409, 413 oblique, 409 radical cure of, 415, 418 strangulated, 416 surgical anatomy of, 409 internal, 479 diaphragmatic, 479 intersigmoid, 479 into foramen of Winslow, 479 into fossa duodeno-jejunalis, 479 perieaecal, 479 inter-parietal, 417 intersigmoid, 479 interstitial, 417 Hernia, intra-parietal, 417 irreducible, 399 labial, 409 in linea alba, 427 Littre’s, 398 lumbar, 428 of lung, 301 obstructed, 401 obturator, 429 of omentum, 398 of ovary, 430 peri-caeeal, 479 pro-peritoneal, 417 radical cure of, 415, 422, 425 reducible, 399 reduction “ en bloc," 407 with retained testis, 412 Richter’s, 398, 404, 421 scrotal, 409 of sigmoid flexure, 430 strangulated, 401, 416, 419, 422, 426, 427, 478 constriction grooves in, 402 false reduction of, 407 operation for, 405, 416, 419, 422 sequel* of, 408 taxis, in, 407 taxis in, 399 testis, 747, 749, 751 trusses for, 414, 418, 421, 422 tuberculosis of sac, 419 umbilical, 423 of adults, 423 of cord, 423 of infants, 423 operation for, 425 strangulated, 426 ventral, 391, 426 Hernial sac, hydrocele of, 761 tuberculosis of, 419 Herniotomy, 405 Herpes zoster, 303 Highmore, antrum of. See Maxillary antrum Hirschsprung’s disease, 495 Histrionic spasm, 79 Hoarseness, 281 Holmes, Oliver Wendell, named anasthesia, 774 Holt’s method of inflating ear, 211 Homonymous hemianopia, 14 Horsley, Victor, on surgery of the brain and skull, 16, 17, 64, 73, 74798 INDEX. Horsley’s antiseptic wax, 17 Hospital sore-throat, 157 Hour-glass stomach, 453 Hunchback, tuberculous, 111 Hutchinson, Jon., junr., on epitheli- oma of lip, 153 Hydatid cysts. See individual organs and regions Hydreneephalocele, 66, 67 Hydrocele, acquired, 758 acute, 744 bilocular, 760, 761 of canal of Nuck, 411 chronic, 758 chylous, 758 congenital, 761 en bissac, 760, 761 encysted, of epididymis, 753 fluid, 758 of hernial sac, 397, 761 of neck, 248 of spermatic cord, 753 of tunica vaginalis. See Tunica vaginalis, hydrocele of Hydrocephalus, acute, 65 operations for, 70 varieties of, 68 Hydro-hoematocele of tunica vaginalis, 762 Hydronephrosis, 623 closed, 624, 625 infected, 631 intermittent, 623, 626 open, 624 permanent. 623 traumatic, 623 Hydro-pneumothorax, 311 Hydrothorax, 311 Hygroma of neck, 248 sacral, 125 Hyoid bone, fracture of, 243 Hyperaasthesia acustica, 207 Hyperchlorhydria, 437 Hypernephroma, 647 Hyperpyrexia, cerebral, 26 Hypoglossal nerve, 81 Hypospadias, 687 Hysterectomy, 565 Hysterical aphonia, 281 spine, 116 wry-neck, 242 Ileo-caecal tuberculosis, 507, 508 Ileostomy, 467, 471 Ileus. See Intestine, obstruction of gall-stone, 490 Iliac abscess, 113, 114 Impotence, 771 Incontinence of faeces, 606 of urine, 682, 719 of urine, nocturnal, 683 Indian operation for restoration of nose, 223 Indigestion, acute, 385 Infiltration anaesthesia, 782 Inflammation. See individual regions and organs Inguinal hernia. See Hernia, inguinal Insanity, traumatic, 39 Intercostal artery, bleeding from, 300 neuralgia, 303 Internal carotid artery, haemorrhage from, 34 mammary artery, haemorrhage from, 300 Interstitial hernia, 417 Intestinal colic, 385 fistula, 509, 513 obstruction, 471. See Intestine, obstruction of sutures, 437 Intestine, actinomycosis of, 509 adenoma of, 513 bacteriology of, 466 cancer of, 496 colitis, intractable, 506 congenital malformations of, 495 diverticula of, false, 507 dysentery, 505 end-to-end suture of, 468 eventration, 475 examination of, 466 exclusion of. 470 fiecal accumulation in, 502 fibroma of, 514 gall-stone ileus, 490 Glenard’s disease, 514, 522 injuries of, 470 ladder pattern of, 476 lateral anastomosis of, 469 lateral implantation of, 468 lipoma of, 514 obstruction, acute, 385, 390, 473 by adhesions, 482 through apertures, 479, 481 by bands, 479 chronic, 476 chronic terminating acutely, 477799 INDEX. Intestine, obstruction, by contraction of mesentery, 482 diagnosis of site of, 478 from foreign bodies, 490 internal hernia;, 479 by kinking, 482 by pressure, 501 operations on, 466. See also individual portions of intestine perforation of typhoid ulcer, 504 polypus of, 513 pressure on, by tumours, 501 rupture of, 346, 470 sarcoma of, 501 short-circuiting of, 469 stenosis of, 492 strangulation through apertures, 479 by bands, 479 stricture of, cicatricial, 493 malignant, 496 tuberculous, 507 surgical anatomy of, 465 tuberculosis of, 507 tumours of, 513 volvulus of, 483 Intra-cranial haemorrhage, 29 in newly-born, 35 from venous sinuses, 34 tuberculosis, 65 Intubation of larynx, 280 of oesophagus, 271, 273 Intussusception, 484 acute, 488 in adult, 490 in children, 485, 488, 490 chronic, 490 operations for, 489 varieties of, 488 Involution cysts of breast, 331 Irrigation of peritoneum, 362 Ischio-rectal abscess, 114, 580 Ischuria paradoxa, 682 Israel on surgery of kidney, 619, 628, 630, 636, 641 Italian operation for restoration of nose, 223 Jaboulay on cervical sympathetic, 81 Jacksonian epilepsy, 13, 37 Jacobson on tumours of jaws, 173 James, Alex., on hydronephrosis, 625 James’s spirometer, 309 Jaundice, 526 Jaw, lower. See also Temporo-max- illary joint dentigerous cyst of, 174 dislocation of, 180 old-standing, 182 epithelioma of, 175 excision of, 175 fixation of, 183 fracture of, 177 mandibular cleft, 143 myeloma of, 175 sarcoma of, 175 tumours of, 174 upper, carcinoma of, 172 dentigerous cyst of, 173 excision of, 173 fracture of, 176 sarcoma of, 172 tumours of, 171, 174 Jaworski on hour-glass stomach, 454 Jaws, actinomycosis of, 169 alveolar process, tumours of, 170 cancrum oris, 155, 168 inflammation of, 167 injuries of, 176 necrosis of, 168 osteomyelitis of, 168 phosphorus necrosis of, 168 pyogenic affections of, 167 syphilis of, 169 tuberculosis of, 168 tumours of, 170 Jejunostomy, 458, 467 Jejunum, peptic ulcer of, 441 Jonnesco on cervical sympathetic, 81 on operation for epilepsy, 74 Jury-mast, 108 Keith’s litholapaxy, 676 Kelly, Howard J., on catheterisation of ureters, 613 on examination of rectum, 567 on pyosalpinx, 558, 559 Kernig’s sign, 65 Kidney, absence of, 614 accessory adrenal tumours, 647 arrested development of, 614 calculous diseases of, 633 cancer of, 646 colic, 635 congenital anomalies of, 614 contusion of, 619 cystic degeneration of, 649 cysts of, hydatid, 651INDEX. 800 Kidney, cysts of, solitary, 648 decapsulation of, 651 displacement, acquired, 615 congenital, 614 dystopia, 614 examination of, 610 libro-lipomatous, 634 floating, 616 belt for, 618 foetal lobulation of, 614 functional adequacy of, 612, 613 gunshot wounds of, 622 horse-shoe, 614 hypernephroma of, 647 inflammation of, 629, 650 innocent tumours of, 646 movable, 393, 616 “one-kidney” urine, 611 operations on, 613 pelvis, tumours of, 648 polycystic, 649 pyogenic infections of, 629 resection of, 614 rupture of, 619 sarcoma of, 646 stone in, 633 bilateral, 640 latent, 635 secondary, 633 surgical, 629 surgical anatomy of, 608 tuberculosis of, 642 wandering, 616 wounds of, 622-623 Killeau’s tracheal tubes, 289 Ivlapp’s four-footed exercises for scoliosis, 131 Klebs-Ldlfler bacillus, 282 Kocher, on excision of rectum, 601 on goitre, 257, 258, 262 on injuries of spine, 88, 89, 99 operation for cancer of breast, 340 on operation for epilepsy, 74 on operation for head injuries, 46 on operation for spasmodic wry- neck, 242 on operation for traumatic epilepsy, 38 on prolapse of rectum, 605 on radical cure of hernia, 416, 422 on surgery of intestine, 472 on surgery of stomach, 441, 446 Koranje on kryoscopy, 613 Korte on cysts of pancreas, 547 Kraske’s excision of rectum, 600 Krogius on cirsoid aneurysm, 8 Krdnlein on tuberculosis of kidney, 643 Kryoscopy, 613 Kummell, on kryoscopy, 613 on surgery of kidney, 637, 645 Kyphosis, 106, 126, 133 Kyphotic pelvis, 114 Large Intestine. See Colon, Caecum, Sigmoid Laminectomy, 86, 109 Lane, Arbuthnot, on cleft palate, 140, 142 Langenbeck’s operation for cleft palate, 141 Lanuelongue on micrencephaly, 70 Laparotomy, 345 exploratory, 475 Laryngectomy, 287 Laryngitis, 282 Laryngoscopy, 277 Laryngotomy, 279 Laryngo-tracheotomy, 280 Larynx, artificial, 288 cancer of, 286 cardinal symptoms of affections of, 281 diphtheria of, 282 epithelioma of, 286 examination of, 277 excision of, 287 foreign bodies in, 288 fracture of, 243 inflammation of, 282 intubation of, 280 oedema of, 283 papilloma of, 285 sarcoma of, 288 surgical anatomy of, 277 syphilis of, 284 tuberculosis of, 285 tumours of, 285 wounds of, 244 Lateral sinus, phlebitis of, 63 ventricles, bursting of abscess into, 58 haemorrhage into, 31 Leichtenstern on intussusception, 486 Lembert’s suture, 438 Lennander on sensibility of peri- toneum, 344, 781 Lepto-meningitis, 55801 INDEX. Lett, Hugh, on oophorectomy for cancer of breast, 341 Leucocythsemia, spleen in, 551 Leuco-keratosis, 186 Leucoplakia, 186 Lingual nerve, resection of, 194 Lip, chancre of, 150 chronic induration of, 150 cracks of, 150 double-lip, 150 epithelioma of, 152 tistulae of, 143 hare-lip, 136, 138, 139 macrocheilia, 151 mucous cysts of, 151 strumous, 150 tumours of, 151 ulcers of, 150, 151 Lipoma, congenital, 125 nasi, 224 Lipomatosis of neck, 248 Lisfranc’s excision of rectum, 600 Lister’s bougies, 705 Litholapaxy, 675-677 perineal, 676 Lithopsedion, 560 Lithotomy, 656, 676, 677 lateral, 678 perineal, 677 supra-pubic, 677 Lithotrite, 676 Lithotrity, perineal, 676 Littre’s hernia, 398 Liver, abscess of, 518, 520 cancer of, 544 cirrhosis of, operation for, 523 - cysts of, 521 deformities of, 521 dislocated, 522 displacements of, 521 enlargement of, 527 gumma of, 521 gunshot wounds of, 517 hydatids of, 520 injuries of, 517 operations on, 518, 519, 523 polycystic disease of, 521 prolapse of, 522 Riedel’s lobe of, 521 rupture of, 517 sarcoma of, 521 surgical anatomy of, 516 tumours of, innocent, 521 wandering, 522 Liver, wounds of, 517 Lloyd, Jordan, on cysts of pancreas, 545 Lordosis, 126, 134 Loreta’s operation, 440 Ludloff on prolapse of rectum, 605 Ludwig’s angina, 186, 202, 246 Lumbar abscess, 113 hernia, 428 puncture, 18, 32, 35, 50, 51, 73 Lund on gastric ulcer, 445 Lung, abscess of, 312 carcinoma of, 313 cavities in, 311 decortication of, 311 foreign bodies in, 300 gangrene of, 312 hernia of, 301 hydatid cysts of, 313 injuries of, 296, 298 laceration of, 298 operations on, 312, 313 prolapse of, 300 wounds of, 298 Lupus of scalp, 5 Luschka, caudal ligament of, 125 Luschka’s tonsil, 233 Luys’ separator, 611 M‘Burney on operation for gall- stones, 533 M'Bnrney’s point, 376 MacCallum, W. G., on para-thyroid glands, 252 M'Cosh on peritonitis, 362 M‘Crae on gastric cancer, 437 Macewen on injuries of chest, 299 on intubation, 281 on laminectomy, 109 on pyogenic diseases of brain, 52, 57 on tuberculous meningitis, 65 Macrocheilia, 151 Macroglossia, 196 Macrostoma, 142 Maisonneuve’s urethrotome, 706 Malar bone, fracture of, 177 Malarial spleen, 551 Malformations. See individual regions and organs Mamma. See Breast Mammary abscess, 324 Mandibular cleft, 143 Manson on abscess of liver, 519 VOL. II—51INDEX. 802 Martin du Pan on cancer of rectum, 600 Mastitis of adolescents, 324 chronic circumscribed, 327 interstitial, 327 lobular, 328 of lactation, 324 neonatorum, 323 of pregnancy, 324 puerperal, 324 Mastodynia, 330 Mastoid, acute suppuration in, 218 operations, 218, 219 Mastoiditis, acute suppurative, 218 Bezold’s, 218 Maxilla, inferior. See Jaw, lower superior. See Jaw, upper Maxillary antrum, suppuration in, 231 Maydl’s operation for extroversion of bladder, 658 Mayo on goitre, 257, 258, 262 on nephropexy, 619 on surgery of kidney, 645 on surgery of stomach, 433, 440, 446, 462 Meckel’s cartilage, 135 diverticulum, 480 inHammation of, 385 intussusception of, 488 patent, 352 Mediastina, inflammation of, 316 tumours of, 316 Mediastinal cesophagotomy, 269 Mediastinitis, 316 Meninges of spinal cord, 86 Meningitis, 53 basal, 55 spinal, 120 tuberculous, 106 tuberculous, 65, 68 Meningocele, 66 spinal, 121, 122 Meningo-encephalitis, 55 Meningo-myelocele, 121, 122 Mercurial gingivitis, 166 glossitis, 186 stomatitis, 155 Mesenteric blood-vessels, embolism of, 503 cysts, 369 glands, diseases of, 371 tuberculous, 371 tumours, 369 Mesentery, contraction of, 482 prolapse of, 397 rupture of, 346 Messerer on fracture of base, 47 Michel’s clips, 143 Micrencepihaly, 70 Micromazia, 320 Microstoma, 143 Micturition during sleep, 683 Middle-ear disease. See Ear, middle Middle meningeal hemorrhage, 31 operation for, 33 Mikulicz on cardiospasm, 461 Milk engorgement of breast, 324 Mitchell’s operation for piles, 593 Monorchism, 737 Morison, Rutherford, on operation for cirrhosis of liver, 523 Morris, Henry, on surgery of kidney. 639, 641 Morton, discovered anaesthesia, 774 Morton’s fluid for spina bifida, 123 Motor area of brain, 11 Mouth— floor, epithelioma of, 157, 175 roof, suppuration of, 155 syphilis of, 155 tumours of, 156 Moynihan on gastro-enterostomy, 440 Mumps, 200 orchitis in, 745 Murphy, J. Bl, on appendicitis, 379 on middle meningeal haemorrhage, 34 Murphy’s button, 470 Murray, R. W., on cleft-palate, 140 Muscles, abdominal, rupture of, 345 Myelitis, compression, 120 haemorrhagic, 120 spinal, 120 tuberculous, 106 Myelocele, 122 Myomectomy, 565 Myxoedema, operative, 259 Nasal affections. See Nose bones, fracture of, 221 cartilages, displacement of, 221 sinuses. See individual sinuses Naso-pharyngeal polypus, 234 tonsil, 233 Naso-pbarynx, affections of, 221 tumours of, 234 Naunyn on gall-stones, 529 Neck, actinomycosis of, 247803 INDEX. Neck, boils of, 247 branchial carcinoma, 238, 249 bursal swellings in, 248 carbuncles of, 247 cellulitis of, 246 cervical auricles, 212 fascia, 237 cicatricial contraction of, 242 contusion of, 242 cystic lymphangioma of, 248 cysts of, 247 blood, 248 branchial, 247 hydrocele of, 248 hygroma of, 248 injuries of, 242 malformations of, 237 potato-like tumour of, 250 stiff, 238 surgical anatomy of, 236 tliyro-glossal cysts in, 248 tumours of, 247 wounds of, 243 wry, 238 Neisser on gonorrhoea, 692, 701 Nelaton’s operation for hare-lip, 140 operation for naso - pharyngeal tumour, 235 Nephrectasis, 623 Nephrectomy, 614, 622, 629, 633 subcapsular, 646 Nephritis, operative treatment of, 650 parenchymatous, 650 Nephro-lithiasis, 633 Nephro-litliotomy, 614, 639 Nephropexy, 614, 619, 627 Nephroptosis, 616 Nephrorraphy, 614, 619, 627 Nephrostomy, 613, 628 Nephrotomy, 613, 633 Nerve roots, injuries of, 95 Nerves. See individual nerves Neuralgia of breast, 330 intercostal, 303 testis, 756 of tongue, 197 trigeminal, 77 Neurasthenia, traumatic, 88 Neurenteric canal, 124, 125 Nipple, absence of, 320 chancre of, 323 cracks of, 322 depressed, 322 fissures of, 322 Nipple, malformations of, 320 Paget’s disease of, 323 strings, 324 supernumerary, 320 syphilis of, 323 tumours of, 323 Nitze on papilloma of bladder, 679 Nocturnal incontinence of urine, 683 Nose, accessory air sinuses of, 225, 231 adenoids, 232 anomalies of smell, 232 asthma, reflex, 232 bleeding from, 230 carcinoma of, 227 cardinal symptoms of nasal affec- tions, 226 concretions in, 229 deformities of, 222 discharge from, 228 displacement of cartilages of, 221 erectile swelling of, 226 examination of, 224 foreign bodies in, 229 fracture of, 221 hammer, 224 lipoma nasi, 224 obstruction of, 226 ozseua, 229 polypi of, 227 potato, 224 rhinitis, 229 rhinopliyma, 223 saddle, 221, 222 sarcoma of, 227 septum of, deviations, 227 haematoma, 228 ridges, 227 spines, 227 sunken-bridge, 222 suppuration in accessory sinuses, 231 swelling of turbinated bones, 226 traumatic saddle, 221 Novococain, 783 Oberst’s regional anaesthesia, 783 Obstruction of bowel, 471 Obturator artery, aberrant, 420 hernia, 429 Obturators for cleft-palate, 142 Ochsner on surgery of stomach, 436 Oculo-motor nerve, 76 Odontoma, 166804 INDEX. O’Dwyer’s intubation apparatus, 280 (Edema, glottidis, 283 of larynx, 283 traumatic, of brain, 36 (Esophageal bougie, passage of, 264, 271 (Esophagismus, 274 (Esophagitis, 269 (Esophagoscope, 264, 276 (Esophagotomy, 268 internal, 271 mediastinal, 269 (Esophagus, carcinoma of, 272 cicatricial contraction of, 265, 270 dilatation of, 275 diverticula of, 275, 317 examination of, 263 foreign bodies in, 265 inflammation of, 269 intubation of, 271, 273 malformations of, 275 operations on, 268, 271, 273, 276 paralysis of, 275 rupture of, 269 spasm of, 274 stammering, 274 stricture of, cicatricial, 270 malignant, 272 spasmodic, 274 surgical anatomy of, 263 swallowing of corrosive substances, 265 syphilis of, 270 tuberculosis of, 269 tumours of, 274 varix of, 270 wounds of, 264 Oi'dium albicans, 154 Olfactory nerve, 75 Oliguria, 609 Ollier, operation for naso-pharyngeal tumour, 235 Omental band, 480 tumours, 370 Omentum, rupture of, 346 strangulated, 403 tumours of, 370 Oophorectomy, for cancer of breast, 341 Operations, for adenoids, 233 on air-passages, 278, 279 for appendicitis, 388, 389, 393 for cancer of breast, 340 Operations, for cancer of larynx, 287 for cancer of tongue, 193 for cephaloceles, 68 for cerebellar abscess, 61 for cerebral abscess, 60 tumours, 73 on chest wall, 309, 311 of circumcision, 764 for cleft-palate, 139, 141 for diffuse peritonitis, 361 for empyema, 307 for epilepsy, 73 for epithelioma of lip, 152 Estlander-Schede, 311 for excision of rectum, 600 for facial paralysis, 79 for libro-adenoma of breast, 333 for fixation of jaw, 184 for fractures of skull, 46 on gall-bladder, 529, 530, 535, 537 for goitre, 257 for hare-lip, 139, 140 for hydrocephalus, 70 for hypertrophy of tonsils, 160 on intestine, 466 for intra-cranial haemorrhage in newly-born, 36 on kidney, 613 of laparotomy, exploratory, 475 on liver, 518, 523 of lumbar puncture, 18 on lung, 312 for malignant disease of upper jaw, 173 for malignant disease of lower jaw, 175, 176 for middle-ear disease, 218 for middle meningeal haemorrhage, 33 for naso-pharyngeal tumours, 235 for necrosis of skull, 83 . on oesophagus, 268, 271 for opening skull, 15 of ovariotomy, 552 for perforated duodenal ulcer, 464 for perforated gastric ulcer, 449 on pharynx, 278 for piles, 593 for quinsy, 159 for radical cure of hernia, 415, 418, 422, 425 for removal of cervical sympathetic, 81INDEX. 805 Operations, i'or restoration of nose, 223 for sinus phlebitis, 64 for spina bifida, 123 on spine, 86, 109, 123 on stomach, 437, 439 for strangulated hernia, 405, 416, 419, 422 for sub-phrenic abscess, 374 for traumatic epilepsy, 38 for tuberculous peritonitis, 365 for tumours of alveolus, 170 for tumours of tonsil, 162 on ureter, 613, 614, 628, 640 on uterus, 565 for varicocele, 756 Wagner’s osteoplastic, on skull, 17 for wry-neck, 240, 241 Ophthalmia, sympathetic, 147 Ophthalmoplegia externa, 77 Opium poisoning, 28, 58 Optic nerve, 76 laceration of, 145 Orbit, aneurysms of, 149 cellulitis of, 147 contusions of, 145 emphysema of, 146 eyeball, injuries of, 146 foreign bodies in, 145 fractures of, 146 tumours of, 147, 148 wounds of, 145 Orchidectomy, 740 Orchidopexy, 740 Orchitis, 743 acute, 743, 745 in gout, 746 gummatous, 749 in infectious diseases, 745 in mumps, 745 Os incisivum, 135 Osier on gastric cancer, 437 Osteomyelitis of skull, 82 Otis’s urethrometer, 705 Otitis media, 216 Otorrhcea, 208 Ovarian cyst, 552 inflammation of, 554 rotation of pedicle of, 554 rupture of, 554 suppuration in, 554 tumours, 552 Ovaries, removal of, for cancer of breast, 341 Ovariotomy, 552 Ovary, cyst-adenoma of, 552 dermoid cyst of, 553 hernia of, 430 papillary tumours of, 554 parovarian cysts, 554 Ozrena, 229 Pachydermatocele, 6 Pachymeningitis, 53 Paget’s disease of nipple, 323 Palate, abscess of, 155 cicatricial contraction of, 161 cleft, 136, 138 epithelioma of, 156 gumma of, 155 leucoplakia of, 156 perforation of, 155, 161 simple tumours of, 156 tuberculosis of, 155 Pancreas, calculi in, 543, 548 cancer of, 544, 548 cysts of, 545 functions of, 540 inflammation of acute, 542 chronic, 543 haemorrhagic, 542 injuries of, 549 suppuration of, 542 surgical anatomy of, 540 Pancreatic stone colic, 636 Pancreatitis, 542 Pan-hysterectomy, 565 Panophthalmitis, 147 Paracusis of Willis, 207 Paraffin, injection of, 223 Paralysis, abductor, 80 Bell’s, 78 conjugate, 13 crossed, 13 facial, 78 of sternomastoid, 80 of tongue, 81 of trapezius, 80 Paralytic scoliosis, 133 Paraphimosis, 765 Paraplegia dolorosa, 116 gravitation, 90 spastic, 119 Parasites, in urinary tract, 651 Para-thyroid glands, 252, 258 Parkin on hydrocephalus, 70 Parosmia, 232 Parotid, carcinoma of, 204806 INDEX. Parotid, endothelioma of, 203 fistul®, 199, 202 inflammation of, 200 injuries of, 198 mixed tumours of, 203 parotitis, varieties of, 200, 201 sarcoma of, 204 surgical anatomy of, 198 tuberculosis of, 202 Parotitis, 200, 201, 391 Parovarian cysts, 554 Patheticus nerve, 77 Paul’s tube, 468 Pelvic appendicitis, 376, 384 colon, 466, 566 peritonitis, 386 Pelvi-rectal abscess, 582 Pelvis of kidney. See Ureter Pelvis, kyphotic, 114 scoliotic, 128 Penis, amputation of, 770 balanitis, 764, 767 cancer of, 769 cellulitis of, 768 chronic induration of, 769 cysts of, 769 fistula of, 710 “fracture” of, 766 gangrene of, 768 herpes of, 769 horns, 769 inflammation of, 767 injuries of, 766 lymphangitis of, 768 malformations of, 763, 766 papilloma, 769 paraphimosis, 765 phimosis, 763, 764 ram’s horn, 733 strangulation of, 767 surgical anatomy of, 763' syphilis of, 768 tumours of, 769 ulceration of, 768 wounds of, 766 Peptic ulcer of jejunum, 441 Perianal abscess, 579 Peri-appendicular abscess, 380, 383 Pericardial adhesions, 315 effusions, 314 Pericystitis, 671 Perigastric abscess, 451 adhesions, 451 Perineal fistula, 708 Perineal litholapaxy, 67 6 lithotomy, 677 lithotrity, 676 prostatectomy, 721, 722 section, 707, 708 testis, 738 Perinephric abscess, 646 Perinephritis, 645 suppurative, 646 Periodontitis, 165 Peri-oesophagitis, 269 Periostitis of skull, 82 Periproctitis, 574 Perirenal abscess, 629 Peritoneal adhesions, 366-367 bands, 367 intoxication, 356 septicaemia, 356, 357 tuberculosis, 364 Peritoneum, actinomycosis of, 367 affections of, 355 foreign bodies in, 368 hydatid cysts of, 370 inflammation of. See Peritonitis irrigation of, 362 malignant disease of, 370 properties of, 343 sensibility of, 344, 781 surgical anatomy of, 342 tumours of, 368 Peritonism, 471 Peritonitis, “aseptic,” 355 chronic, 364 circumscribed suppurative, 380 diagnosis of, 360 diffuse, 357, 381, 384 generalised, 357 gonococcal, 364 “idiopathic,” 357 infective, 356, 362 non-infective, 355 pelvic, 386 pneumococcal, 363 “reparative,” 355 septic, 356 tuberculous, 364 varieties of, 355 Perityphlitis, 381 Peri-urethral abscess, 698, 709 cellulitis, 708 Peri-vesical abscess, 671 Peters’s operation for extroversion of bladder, 658 Phantom tumours, 555INDEX. 807 Pharyngitis, varieties of, 158 Pharyngotomy, sub-hyoid, 278 Pharynx, affections of, 158 foreign bodies in, 266, 267, 288 tumours of, 162 Phelp’s box, 108, 112 Phimosis, acquired, 764 congenital, 763 Phlebitis. See individual vessels Phleboliths in piles, 589 Phosgene gas, 776 Phosphorus necrosis of jaw, 168 Phthisical cavities in lung, 313 Piles, “attack of,’’ 592, 593 clamp and cautery for, 594 connective, tissue, 595 “dog-ear,” 595 excision of, 593 external, 589, 594 inflammation of, 592 internal, 589 ligature of, 593 mixed, 589 operations for, 593, 595 phleboliths in, 589 sentinel, 587, 595 strangulation of, 592 thrombotic, 594 venous, 594 Plaster-jackets, 108 Pleura, empyema of, 305 injuries of, 296-298 Pleural effusions, 304 Pleurisy, diaphragmatic, 310, 386 traumatic, 298 Pleurodynia, 303 Pneumatocele capitis, 7 Pneumectomy, 313 Pneumogastric nerve, 80 Pneumonia, 386 Pneumothorax, 296, 299 Pneumonotomy, 312 Politzer’s method of inflating ear, 211 Polymastia, 320 Polymazia, 320 Polyorchism, 737 Polypi. See individual organs Polythelia, 320 Polyuria, 609 Pond fracture of skull, 44 Post-anal dimple, 125 gut, 124 Post-nasal obstruction, 232 Potato nose, 224 « Pott’s disease, attitudes in, 107, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114 principles of treatment in, 108 of spine, 104 Pott’s puffy tumour, 54, 82 Pregnancy, extra-uterine, 560 Premaxillary bone, 135 Prepuce, calculi in, 768 inflammation of, 764, 767 Priapism, 91, 771 Pringle, Hogarth, on empyema, 309 on traumatic cephal-hydrocele, 68 Procidentia recti, 602 Proctectomy, 600 Proctitis, 573 Proctodaeum, 568 Proctoscope, 567 Proctotomy, 578 Prolapse. See individual organs Prostate, abscess of, 713, 714 calculi in, 726 cancer of, 726, 727 cauterisation of, Bottiui’s, 722 congestion of, 718 enlargement of, 716 castration for, 724 “catheter life” in, 723 complications of, 723 examination of, 712 haemorrhage from, 719, 724 inflammation of, 713 injuries of, 713 middle lobe of, 711 prostatism without enlargement of, 724 removal of, 721 sarcoma of, 727 senile hypertrophy of, 716 surgical anatomy of, 711 tuberculosis of, 715 Prostatectomy, perineal, 721, 722 supra-pubic, 721 in two stages, 722 Prostatic calculi, 726 catheters, 723 retention, 719 Prostatism without enlargement of prostate, 724 Prostatitis, acute, 713 catarrhal, 714 Prostatorrhcea, 714 Pruritis ani, 605 Psoas abscess, 112, 113 Pulmonary abscess, 312808 INDEX. Pulmonary cavities, 311 Pulpitis, 165 Purse-string suture, 438 Pyaemia, gonorrhoeal, 698 Pyelitis, 629 calculous, 640 Pyelo-nephritis, 629 acute, 630 tuberculous, 642 Pyeloplication, 628 Pyelotomy, 613 Pylorectomy, 457 Pyloroplasty, 440 Pylorus, obstruction of, in infants, 458 stenosis of, 452 surgical anatomy of, 433 Pyonephrosis, 625, 629, 630 calculous, 631, 640 Pyorrhoea alveolaris, 166 Pyosalpinx, 556 Pyothorax, 305 Pyuria, 610 Quincke’s lumbar puncture, 18 Quinsy, 158 “Railway spine,” 88 Ramra on enlarged prostate, 724 Ranula, 203 Recto-urethral fistula, 586, 710 Recto-vaginal fistula, 570, 586 Recto-vesical fistula, 587 Rectum, abscesses of, 578 absence of, 570 adenoma of, 596 malignant, 597 cancer of, 597 chronic inflammatory thickening of, 506 development of, 568 examination of, 567 excision of, 578, 600 fistulse, 582 foreign bodies in, 572 incontinence of faeces, 606 inflammation of, 573 injuries of, 571 malformations of, 568 papilloma of, 596 polypus of, 595 fibrous, 596 prolapse of, 602 sarcoma, 602 Rectum, stricture of— cicatricial, 576 dysenteric, 575 malignant, 597 syphilitic, 577 surgical anatomy of, 566 ulceration of, 574 dysenteric, 574 syphilitic, 575 tuberculous, 575 villous tumour of, 596 Rectus abdominis muscles, rupture of, 345 divarication of, 426 Recurrent fibroid of Paget, 352 Reflex centres in spinal cord, 86 Regional anaesthesia, 783 Rehn on papilloma of bladder, 678 Renal abscess, 629 calculus, 393 capsulotomy, 651 colic, 635 haemophilia, 650 phthisis, 642 retention, 623 Retention of urine, 708, 716, 719, 723 Retro-peritoneal tumours, 368 Retro-pharyngeal abscess, 109, 163, 201 Rhinitis, 229 Rhinoliths, 229 Rhinophyma, 223 Rhinoscopy, 225 Rib-hump, 127 Ribs, cervical, 249 dislocation of, 294 fracture of, 292 osteomyelitis of, 301 tuberculosis of, 112, 302 tumours of, 303 Richter’s hernia, 404 Riddell, J. R., on renal calculus, 637, 639 Risus sardonicus, 315 Robson, Mayo, on chronic pancre- atitis, 543 on gall-stones, 531, 533 on surgery of stomach, 445 Rokitanski on diverticula of oeso- phagus, 276 Rontgen rays in diagnosis of renal calculus, 637 Rose’s operation for hare-lip, 140INDEX. 809 Rosenstein on cardiospasm, 461 Rouge’s operation for naso-pharyngeal tumour, 235 Round shoulders, 133 Roux staples for hernia, 422 Rupture. See Hernia Rydigier on gastric ulcer, 445 on splenopexy, 551 Sacral hygroma, 125 Sacro-coccygeal fistulas, 125 sinuses, 125 tumours, 124 Sacro-iliac joint, tuberculosis of, 114 Saddle nose, 221, 222 Salivary calculi, 200 fistulse, 199, 202 glands. See Parotid, Submaxil- lary, Sublingual Salpingitis, 556 Salpingo-odphorectomy, 559 Sanger, on decompression operations, 73 Saphena vein, pouching of, 421 Sarcoma. See individual regions and organs Scalp, air-containing swellings of, 7 aneurysms of, 8 avulsion of, 4 cephal-hsematoma of, 2 cirsoid aneurysm of, 8 contusion of, 2 cysts of, 6 daugerous area of, 3 diseases of, 5 emphysema of, 7, 48, 49 erysipelas of, 5 hfematoma of, 2, 45 injuries of, 2 surgical anatomy of, 1 tumours of, 6 vascular, 7 wounds of, 3 complications of, 4 Schwartze’s operation, 218 Scoliosis, of adolescents, 126 paralytic, 133 static, 133 varieties of, 126, 132 Scoliotic pelvis, 128 Scrotum, cancer of, 734 cellulitis of, 732 chimney-sweep’s cancer of, 734 contusions of, 734 Scrotum, cysts of, 731 eczema of, 732 elephantiasis of, 733 epithelioma of, 734 fistulse in, 733 gangrene of, 732 liaematoma of, 731 lymph, 733 oedema of, 733 paraffin cancer of, 734 prurigo of, 732 sinuses in, 733 surgical anatomy of, 731 syphilitic eruptions, 733 tumours of, 733 wounds of, 731 Seminal vesicles, calculi in, 729 examination of, 728 inflammation of, 728 “stripping” of, 729 surgical anatomy of,__727 tuberculosis of, 729 Septicaemia, peritoneal, 356, 357 Shock, cerebral, 21 Siegle’s speculum, 209 Sigmoid flexure, hernia of, 430 volvulus of, 483 sinus, phlebitis of, 63 Sigmoiditis, 506 Sigmoidoscopy, 499 Simpson, James Young, discovered chloroform anaesthesia, 775 Sinus phlebitis, 62 of individual sinuses, 63 operation for, 64 types of, 64 sacro-coccygeal, 125 scrotal, 733 Skull, contusion of, 40 diseases of, 82 fractures of, 40 base— anterior fossa, 48 diagnosis of, 50 mechanism of, 47 middle fossa, 49 posterior fossa, 49 comminuted, 44 by contre-coup, 41 depressed, 44 fissured, 42 gutter, 44 indentation, 44 pond, 44, 45INDEX. 810 Skull, fractures of, punctured. 43 vault, 40 injuries of, 40 necrosis of, 83 operations for opening, 15 osteomyelitis of, 82 periostitis of, 82 surgical anatomy of, 9 syphilis of, 83 trephining of, 15 tuberculosis of, 83 tumours of, 84 Smell, anomalies of, 232 loss of, 76 Smoker's patch on tongue, 187 Socia parotidis, 198 Sounding for stone in bladder, 674 Space of Retzius, 654 Spastic paraplegia, 119 Spermatic cord, 735. See also Vas deferens atrophy of, 757 hydrocele of, 753 injuries of, 741 surgical anatomy of, 735 torsion of, 741 tumours of, 754 Spermatocele, 753 Sphenoidal sinus, suppuration in, 232 Spiller, on decompression operations, 73 Spina bifida, 121 occulta, 124 operations for, 123 varieties of, 121 Spinal accessory nerve, 80 operations on, 241 Spinal anesthesia, 783 Spinal column. See Spine cord, 85 concussion of, 87 contusion of, 87 diseases of, 104 haemorrhage extra-medullary, 89 intra-medullary, 90 injuries of, 87 at different levels, 93 membranes of, 86 partial lesions of, 95 in Pott’s disease, 108 reflex centres in, 86 segments of, 86, 92 surgical anatomy of, 85 suture of, 103 Spinal cord, total transverse lesions of, 91 tumours of, 119 Spinal haemorrhage, 89 membranes, tumours of, 119 meningitis, 120 tuberculous, 106 meningocele, 121, 122 myelitis, 120 nerve roots in Pott’s disease, 106 nerves, injuries of, 95 in Pott’s disease, 108 Spine, 85 actinomycosis of, 116 arthritis deformans of, 117, 118 compression fracture of, 99 congenital deformities, 121 deviations of, 126 diseases of, 104 dislocations of, 98, 101 exercises for scoliosis, 130 fracture of, 99, 295 fracture-dislocation of, 101, 102 hydatid cysts of, 116 hysterical, 116 injuries of, 97 kyphosis, 126, 133 laminectomy, 86 lateral curvature, 126, 132 lateral deviation of, in Pott’s disease, 107 lordosis, 126, 134 osteomyelitis of, 116 Pott’s disease of, 104 “railway,” 88 rheumatic spondylitis, 117 scoliosis, 126, 132 spondylitis deformans, 117 sprains of, 97 surgical anatomy of, 85 syphilis of, 115 traumatic spondylitis, 100, 101 tuberculosis of, 104 tumours of, 115 twists of, 97 wounds of, 102 Spirometer, James’s, 309 Splanchnoptosis, 514, 522 Spleen, abscess of, 550 cysts of, 551 dislocated, 551 enlargements of, 551 floating, 551 functions of, 549811 INDEX. Spleen, gunshot wounds of, 550 hydatids of, 551 in leucocythseraia, 551 malarial, 551 operations on, 549, 550, 551 removal of, 549, 550 rupture of, 549 sarcoma of, 551 surgical anatomy of, 549 tuberculosis of, 551 tumours of, 551 wandering, 551 wounds of, 550 Splenectomy, 549, 550 Splenic anaemia, 551 Splenopexy, 551 Splint, Hammond’s, 180 Spondylitis deformans, 117 rheumatic, 117 traumatic, 100, 101 Sprengel pump drainage apparatus, 657 Stacke-Schwartze operation, 219 Stammering oesophagus, 274 Staphylorraphy, 141 Status epilepticus, 38 Stenosis noises, 476 Steuson’s duct, 198 fistulae of, 199 injuries of, 199 Stercoraceous vomiting, 404 Sterility, 771, 772 Sterno-mastoid, hsematoma of, 239 paralysis of, 80 Sternum, fracture of, 294 osteomyelitis of, 301 tuberculosis of, 302 tumours of, 303 Stewart, Purves, on lumbar puncture, 20 Stiles, H. J., on cancer of breast, 340 on pyloric obstruction of infants, 458 Stockman, Ralph, on phosphorus necrosis, 168 Stomach, bacteriology of, 436 cancer of, 455 clinical methods of examination of, 436 contusion of, 441 dilatation of, 460 paradoxical, 454 post-operative, 460 effects of corrosive agents on, 442 Stomach, foreign bodies in, 443 hair-balls in, 443 hour-glass, 453 injuries of, 441 operations on, 439. See also indi- vidual operations perigastric abscess, 451 adhesions, 451 prolapse of, 459 surgical anatomy of, 433 tumours of, 458 ulcer of, 443 complications, 446 penetrating, 444 perforating, 444, 446 operation for, 449 ulcer-cancer of, 455, 456 Stomatitis, varieties of, 154 Stone. See Calculus Stovain, 782, 783 Strangulated hernia. See Hernia Stricture. See individual organs Struthers, J. W., on local anresthesia, 782, 783 Subconjunctival ecchymosis, 48, 146 Subdural abscess, 55 Subgluteal abscess, 113, 114 Sublingual gland— inflammation of, 202 ranula, 203 surgical anatomy of, 198 tumours of, 205 Submaxillary gland— calculi of, 200 inflammation of, 202 periadenitis of, 202 surgical anatomy of, 198 tuberculosis of, 202 tumours of, 205 Sub-peritoneal lipoma, 427 Sub-phrenic abscess, 371 Suction apparatus for drainage, 657 Superior longitudinal sinus, phlebitis of, 64 Supra-meatal triangleof Macewen, 219 Supra-pubic lithotomy, 677 prostatectomy, 721 Surgical anatomy of abdominal wall, 342 of appendix, 376 of bladder, 653 of breast, 318 of chest, 291 of cranium, 9812 INDEX. Surgical anatomy of duodenum, 435 of ear, 206 of femoral hernia, 419 of gall-bladder, 523 of inguinal hernia, 409 of intestines, 465 of kidney, 608 of larynx, 277 of liver, 516 of neck, 236 of oesophagus, 263 of pancreas, 540 of parathyroid glands, 252 of parotid gland, 198 of penis, 763 of peritoneum, 342 of prostate, 711 of rectum, 566 of salivary glands, 198 of scalp, 1 of scrotum, 731 of seminal vesicles, 727 of spinal cord, 85 of spine, 85 of spleen, 549 of stomach, 433 of testis, 734 of thyroid gland, 252 of tympanic membrane, 209 of ureter, 609 of urethra, 685 Sutures, intestinal, 437 Syme’s external urethrotomy, 706 operation for epithelioma of lip, 152 operation for removal of tongue, 193 operation for restoration of nose, 223 Symond’s oesophageal tube, 271, 273 Sympathetic, cervical, 81, 262 ophthalmia, 147 Syncope during anaesthesia, 779 Synorchism, 737 Syphilitic affections. See individual regions and organs Syringo-myelocele, 121 Tabes meseuterica, 371 Tagliacotian operation for restoration of nose, 223 Tail-like appendage, 124, 125 Talma on operation for cirrhosis of liver, 523 Taste, anomalies of, 232 loss of, 76 Taxis in hernia, 399, 407 Taylor on anatomy of spine, 86 Taylor, K. W., on priapism, 771 Teeth, abscess of, 165 caries of, 161 cysts of, 166 displacement of, 179 periodontitis, 165 pulpitis, 165 tumours of, 166 Temporal artery, traumatic aneurysm of, 8 bone, necrosis of, 217 Temporo-maxillary articulation— arthritis of, 182 arthritis deformans of, 183 dislocation of, 180 fixation of, 183 subluxation of, 182 suppuration in, 201 tuberculous arthritis of, 183 Temporo-sphenoidal abscess, 59 Terrier on lumbar puncture, 20 Test-meal, 436 Testis, 734. See also Epididymis abdominal, 738 atrophy of, 201, 757 cancer of, 751 congenital abnormalities of, 736,737 contusion of, 740 crural, 738 cystic disease of, 752 cysts of, 752 descent of, 736 development of, 736, 737 abnormalities of, 736 dislocation of, 741 hernia or fungus, 747, 749, 751 imperfectly descended, 737 injuries of, 740 inflammation of, 743. See also Orchitis internal secretion of, 739 misplaced, 738 neuralgia of, 7 56 perineal, 738 pubic, 738 removal of, 735, 740 retained, 737 retarded descent-of, 737 sarcoma of, 751 surgical anatomy of, 734 syphilis of, 749 infantile, 750 transit of, 736813 INDEX. Testis, transit of, abnormalities in, 737 transplantation of, 740 tuberculosis of, 746 tumours of, innocent, 751 Tetany, 258 Thomas, Gaillard, operation for tumours of breast, 333 Thomas’s splint in spinal disease, 108, 111, 112 Thoracic duct, wounds of, 240 viscera, injuries of, 296 Thoracoplasty, 311 Thoracotomy, 308 Thorax. See Chest Thorburn on injuries of spine, 90 Throat. See Fauces Thrush, 154 Thymic asthma, 250 Thymus death, 250 gland, 236 affections of, 249 Thyro-glossal cysts, 195, 248 tumours, 195 Thyroid gland, 252. See also Goitre accessory, 252, 254 carcinoma of, 260 goitre, 253. See also Goitre inflammation of, 253 physiological hypereemia of, 252 sarcoma of, 260 surgical anatomy of, 252 syphilis of, 253 tuberculosis of, 253 Thyroidectomy, 257 Thyroidism, acute, 258 Thyroiditis, 253 Thyrotomy, 279 Tinnitus aurium, 207 Tongue, absence of, 196 atrophy of, 196 bifid, 196 cancer of, 190 inoperable, 194 cysts of, 195 excessive length of, 196 excision of, 192 fibromatosis of, 196 fissures of, 190 glossitis, 186 gumma of, 189, 192 hemi-glossitis, 186 inflammation of, 186 leucoplakia of, 186 Tongue, macroglossia, 196 malformations of, 196 mercurial glossitis, 186 mucous patches, 188 neuralgia of, 197 paralysis of, 81, 197 plexiform neuroma of, 196 sarcoma of, 195 sclerosing glossitis, 188 smoker’s patch, 187 spasm of, 197 syphilis of, 188 tongue-tie, 196 tuberculosis of, 187 tumours of, 190, 195 ulcers of, 188, 190, 192 wounds of, 185 Tonsil, calculi of, 161 hypertrophy of, 159 inflammation of, 157, 158 Luschka’s, 233 naso-pharyngeal, 233 quinsy, 158 syphilis of, 161 tuberculosis of, 161 tumours of, 161 Tonsillitis, 157, 158 Tonsillotomy, 160 Torticollis. See Wry-neck Trachea, foreign bodies in, 289 fracture of, 243 scabbard, 256 thymus stenosis of, 249 wounds of, 244 Tracheoscopy, 278 Tracheotomy, 261, 279 Trapezius, paralysis of, 80 Traumatic apoplexy, 33 cephal-hydroeele, 67, 68 epilepsy, 37 insanity, 39 neurasthenia, 88 oedema of brain, 36 pleurisy, 298 spondylitis, 100-101 Trephining of skull, 15 Treves, on intestinal obstruction, 473, 478 Triangle of Petit, 113 Trifacial nerve, 77 Trigeminal nerve, 77 neuralgia, 77 Tropa-cocain anaesthesia, 783 Tropical abscess of liver, 518814 INDEX. Trusses, 414, 418, 421. 422 Tubal abortion, 560 gestation, 560 mole, 560 Tuberculin test, 117 Tuberculosis. See individual regions and organs Tuffier on lumbar puncture, 20 on pulmonary cavities, 311 Tumours. See individual regions and organs Tunica vaginalis, hsematocele of, 761 hydrocele of, 757 acquired, 758 acute, 757 bilocular, 760, 761 chronic, 758 chylous, 758 congenital, 758, 761 en bissac, 760, 761 fluid in, 758 infantile, 758, 761 inguinal, 758 operations for, 760 tapping of, 760 surgical anatomy of, 735 Tuning-fork test for hearing, 208 Turbinated bones, erectile swelling of, 226 Turner, Dawson, . on hsemo - renal index, 613 Turner, Sir Win., on cerebro-spinal fluid, 19 Tuttle, Jas. P., on diseases of rectum. 568, 580 Tympanic membrane, lesions of, 209, 216 perforation of, 210 rupture of, 216 surgical anatomy of, 209 Typhoid fever, 385 ulcer, perforation of, 504 Ulcers and ulceration. See also in- dividual regions and organs Ulcer, crateriform, 338 of duodenum, 393, 462 perforated, 385 gastric, perforated, 385 peptic of jejunum, 441 of stomach, 443 typhoid, perforation of, 504 Umbilicus, cyst of, 353 Umbilicus, Astute of, 354 granuloma of, 353 hernia at, 423 inflammation of, 353 tumours of, 354 Umbrella probang, 268 Urachus, cysts of, 353 fistula; of, 353 persistent, 353 Uraemia, 621 Uraemic coma, 29 Uranoplasty, 141 Ureter, abnormal origin of, 615 avulsion of, 620 catheterisation of, 612 congenital anomalies of, 615 double, 615 inflammation of, 386 operations on, 613, 614, 628, 640 rupture of, 622 stone in, 393, 633 surgical anatomy of, 609 tumours of, 648 Ureterectomy, 614 Ureteritis, 386 Uretero-pyelo-anastomosis, 628 Uretero-pyelo-neostomy, 628 Ureterotomy, 613, 640 Urethra, calculus in, 691 contusion of, 689 dilatation of, retrograde, 707 epispadias, 688 examination of, 686 “ false passages ” in, 705 Astute of, 709 foreign bodies in, 692 hypospadias, 687 inflammation of, 692 irrigation of, 697 malformations of, 687 occlusion of, 687 posterior, instillation of, 700 prostatic, stone in, 725 rupture of, 689 stricture of, 702 annular, 703 bridle, 703, 706 callous, 703 cicatricial, 702-704 complications of, 703-708 congestive, 702 cylindrical, 703 dilatation of, continuous, 706815 INDEX. Urethra, stricture of, dilatation of, intermittent, 705 retrograde, 707 vital, 706 examination of, 705 gonorrhoeal, 703 impermeable, 703, 707 operative treatment of, 706 organic, 702 permeable, 703 resection of, 707 resilient, 703, 706 spasmodic, 702 traumatic, 702 valvular, 706 surgical anatomy of, 685 wounds of, 688 Urethritis, 692 gonorrhoeal, 694 non-gonorrhoeal, 693 posterior, 696 Urethrometer, 705 Urethroscope, 687 Urethrotomes, 706 Urethrotomy, Cock’s operation, 708 external, 706 internal, 706 Syme’s, 706 Wheelhouse’s, 690, 707 Urinary bladder. See Bladder calculi, varieties of, 633 fever, 710 fistulse, 354, 7 09 lithiasis, 633 Urine, 609 in cystitis, 666 examination of, 654 extravasation of, 689, 708 nocturnal incontinence of, 683 “ one-kidney,” 611 retention of, 708, 716, 719, 723 segregation of, 611 threads in, 699 two-glass test, 654, 699 Uro-nephrosis, 623 Uterine fibroids, 563 Uterus, fibro-myoma of, 563 myoma of, 563 operations on, 565 Uvula, bifid, 138 elongation of, 157 Vaginal cystocele, 432 Vagus nerve, 80 Valsalva’s method of inflating ear. 211 Varicocele, 754 operation for, 756 in tumours of kidney, 648, 755 Varix, oesophageal. 270 Vas deferens, 734 rupture of, 741 surgical anatomy of, 734 wounds of, 741 Venous sinuses, haemorrhage from, 34 Ventral hernia, 391, 426 Vermiform appendix. See Appendix and Appendicitis Vertebrae. See Spine Vertigo, 208 Vesical calculus, 671 Vesiculitis, 743 acute, 728 chronic, 729 Vitelline duct, persistence of, 352 Voice, interference with, 281 training, 142 Volvulus, 483 Vomiting, cerebral, 56 faecal, 404 regurgitant, 359 stercoraceous, 404 Vulvo-vaginitis in children, 701 Wagner’s osteo-plastic operation on skull, 17 Wax, antiseptic, 17 in ear, 213 Weir, on appendicostomy, 505 Wens, 6 Wharton’s duct, 198 Wheelhouse’s external urethrotomy, 690, 707 White, Hale, on congenital dilatation of colon, 495 White, on enlarged prostate, 724 Whitehead’s operation for piles, 593 for removal of tongue, 193 Witzel’s gastrostomy, 439 on surgery of stomach, 440, 441, 454 Word blindness, 13 deafness, 13INDEX. 816 Wounds. See individual regions and organs Wry-n§ck, 238 acute, 238 hysterical, 242 ^ permanent, 239 spasmodic, 241 Wry-neek, true, 239 Young on surgery of prostate, 722, 727 Zygomatic arch, fracture of, 177YOUNG J. PENTLAND’S' PUBLICATIONS CONTRIBUTIONS to CLINICAL MEDICINE. By M'Call Anderson, M.D., Professor of Medicine in the University of Glasgow ; Physician, Glasgow Western Infirmary. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii., 416, with 28 Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. nett. TEXT-BOOK of GENERAL BOTANY. By Dr. W. J. Behrens. Translation from the Second German Edition. Re- vised by Patrick Geddes, F.R.S.E., Professor of Botany in the University of Dundee. 8vo, Cloth, pp. viii., 374, with 408 Illus- trations, finely engraved on Wood, and 4 Analytical Tables. New Edition. Price 5s. THE ELEMENTS of OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DIAG- NOSIS. For the Use op Students attending Ophthalmic Practice. By George A. Berry, M.B., E.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on Ophthalmology in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii., 83. Price 3s. 6<i. DISEASES of the EYE. A Practical Treatise for Students of Ophthalmology. By George A. Berry, M.B., E.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on Ophthalmology in the University of Edinburgh. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, Cloth, gilt top, pp. xxiv., 728, with 197 Illustrations, including many Coloured Figures. Price 25s. (Pentland’s Medical Series, Volume Second. MANUAL of PRACTICAL OPHTHALMOLOGY. By George A. Berry, M.B., F.R.C.S.Ed., Senior Ophthalmic Sur- geon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Surgeon, Edinburgh Eye Dispensary ; Ophthalmic Surgeon, Royal Hospital for Sick Chil- dren ; Lecturer on Ophthalmology, University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 570, with 223 Illustrations, mostly from Original Drawings. Price 10s. 6d. nett. (Pcntland’s Students' Manuals.MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY 2 THE NATIONAL MEDICAL DICTIONARY. Including English, French, German, Italian, and Latin Technical Teems used in Medicine and the Collateral Sciences, and a Series of Tables of Useful Data. By John S. Billings. A.M., M.D., LL.D. Harv. and Edin., D.C.L. Oxon., Member of the National Academy of Sciences, Surgeon, U.S.A., etc. In Two Volumes, Imperial 8vo, pp. xlviii., 1530. Price 50s. nett. DISEASES of the HEART and THORACIC AORTA. By Byrom Bramwell, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and on Practical Medicine and Medical Diagnosis, in the Extra-Academical School of Medicine, Edin- burgh ; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 783. Illustrated with 226 Wood Engravings, and 68 pages of Lithograph Plates, exhibiting 91 Figures,— 317 Illustrations in all. Price 25s. INTRACRANIAL TUMOURS. By Byrom Bramwell, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Extra - Academical School of Medicine, Edinburgh; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 270, with 116 Illustrations. Price 14s. ILLUSTRATIONS of the NERVE TRACTS in the MID and Hind Brain, and the Cranial Nerves Arising There- from. By Alexander Bruce, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Neurology in the School of Medicine; Assistant Physician, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Illustrated with a series of 27 Coloured Plates from Original Drawings, with Descriptive Letter- press, and 27 Engravings throughout the Text. Oblong 4to, Cloth. Price 50s. nett. THE PRINCIPLES of TREATMENT, and their APPLICA tions in Practical Medicine. By J. Mitchell Bruce, M.A., LL.D., M.D., F.R.C.P., Consulting Physician to the Charing Cross Hospital and to the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton. Third Impression. 8vo, Cloth, gilt top, pp. xviii., 614. Price 16s. (Pentland’s Medical Series, Volume Seventh.3 YOUNG J. PENTLAND. DISEASE in CHILDREN: A Manual for Students and Practitioners. By James Carmichael, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician, Royal Hospital for Sick Children ; University Lecturer on Disease in Children, Edinburgh. Crown 8vo. Cloth, pp. xviii., 591. Illustrated with Charts. Price 10s. 6d. (Pentland’s Students’ Manuals. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE of the BONES and JOINTS. By W. Watson Chetne, E.R.S., F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery, King’s College, London. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 374. Illustrated with numerous Wood Engravings throughout the Text. Price 14s. nett. SUPPURATION and SEPTIC DISEASES. Three Lec- tures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. By W. Watson Cheyne, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery, King’s College, London. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii., 102, with 4 Illustrations. Price 5s. THE TREATMENT of WOUNDS, ULCERS, and ABSCESSES. By W. Watson Cheyne, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery, King’s College, London. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 197. Price 3s. 6d. ATLAS of the DISEASES of the SKIN. By H. Radcliffe Crocker, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Department for Diseases of the Skin, University College Hospital, London. In 16 Fasciculi, containing 96 plates, exhibiting 238 Figures in colours from Original Drawings specially prepared for the work, with Descriptive Letterpress. Price 21s. each nett. Or in Two large handsome Folio Volumes, Half Morocco, gilt tops. Price £18, 18s. nett. MANUAL of PRACTICAL ANATOMY. By D. J. Cun- ningham, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. Third Edition. In Two Vols., Crown 8vo, Cloth. Volume First—Upper and Lower Limb ; Abdomen. Volume Second—Thorax ; Head and Neck. Illustrated with nearly 400 Engravings, many in colours. Price 10s. 6d. each nett. (Pentland’s Students’ Manuals.4 MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY TEXT-BOOK of ANATOMY. Edited by D. J. Cunningham,. M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. Second and thoroughly Revised Edition. In One Volume, Royal 8vo, Cloth, pp. xxxvi., 1388. With 936 Wood Engravings from Original Drawings, many printed in colours. Price 31s. 6d. nett; or in half leather binding, price 35s. nett. Also in Foue Sections. Sections I. to III.—First Edition. Section IV.—Second Edition. Section I.—General Embryology ; Osteology ; Articulations or Joints ; The Muscular System. Pp. xxxii., 438. Illustrated with 307 Wood Engravings, many printed in colours, in extra cloth binding. Price 12s. 6d. nett. Section II.—The Nervous System ; Organs of Sense and the Integument. Pp. vi., 344. Illustrated with 234 Wood Engrav- ings, some in colours, in extra cloth binding. Price 10s. 6d. nett. Section III.—Vascular System ; Respiratory System ; Diges- tive System. Pp. viii., 364. Illustrated with 184 Wood Engrav- ings, many printed in colours, in extra cloth binding. Price 10s. 6d. nett. Section IV.—Urogenital System; Ductless Glands; Surface and Surgical Anatomy. Pp. viii., 259. Illustrated with 139 Wood Engravings, some printed in colours. Second Edition. In extra cloth binding. Price 7s. 6d. nett. *** The list of Contributors is as follows:—Professor A. H. Young (Manchester), Dr. Arthur Robinson (Birmingham),- Professor Arthur Thomson (Oxford), Professor D. H. Hepburn (Cardiff), Dr. Harold Stiles (Edinburgh), Professor A. M. Paterson (Liverpool), Professor R. Howden (Newcastle), The late Professor A. Birmingham (Dublin), Professor A. E. Dixon (Dublin), and the Editor. HYGIENE and DISEASES of WARM CLIMATES, in a Series of Articles by Eminent Authorities. Edited by Andrew Davidson, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., late Visiting and Super- intending Surgeon, Civil Hospital, and Professor of Chemistry, Royal College, Mauritius; Author of Geographical Pathology. Royal 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 1016. Illustrated with 7 full-page Plates- and 97 Engravings throughout the Text. Price 31s. 6d.YOUNG J. PENTLAND. 5 GEOGRAPHICAL PATHOLOGY. An Inquiry into the Geographical Distribution of Infective and Climatic Dis- eases. By Andrew Davidson, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., late Visiting and Superintending Surgeon, Civil Hospital, and Professor of Chemistry, Royal College, Mauritius. Two Vols., Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 1008. Illustrated with Maps and Charts. Price 31s. 6d. TEXT-BOOK of NERVOUS DISEASES. By American Authors. Edited by Francis X. Dercum, M.D., Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Nervous Diseases in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. Royal 8vo, Cloth, pp. 1056, with 341 Engravings in the Text, and 7 Coloured Plates. Price 25s. nett. THE TOXIC AMBLYOPIAS: Their Classification, His- tory, Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment. By G. E. de Schweinitz, A.M., M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology in the Philadelphia Polyclinic. Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. 238, with 46 Illustrations and 9 Plates. Price 16s. nett. THE EDINBURGH MEDICAL JOURNAL. Edited by Alexis Thomson, M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., and Harvey Littlejohn, F.R.C.S.Ed. Issued monthly. Price 2s. each part; Subscrip- tion 21s. per annum (in advance), post free. For the Colonies and Abroad, 24s. per annum (in advance), post free. THE ERASMUS WILSON LECTURES on the PATH- OLOGY and DISEASES of the THYROID GLAND. De- livered before the Royal College of Surgeons of England on February 18th, 20th, and 22nd, 1901. By Walter Edmunds, M.A., M.C. (Cantab.), F.R.C.S. (Eng.), Surgeon to the Tottenham Hospital ; Surgeon to Out-Patients Evelina Hospital for Sick Children. 8vo, Cloth, pp. 47, with 24 Illus- trations. Price 2s. 6d. nett. EXAMINATION QUESTIONS, Set for the Professional Examinations in Edinburgh University during a period of Ten Years, selected from the Calendars. By W. Ramsay Smith, M.B., C.M., B.Sc., Formerly Demonstrator of Anatomy, EdinburghMEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY 6 School of Medicine, Minto House; late Senior Assistant to the Professor of Natural History, University of Edinburgh. Natubal Histohy, arranged and annotated. Price Is. nett. Botany, arranged and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. Chemistry, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Anatomy, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Physiology, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Matekia Medica, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Midwifery and Gynecology, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. Surgery, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. Practice of Physic, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. Medical Jurisprudence and Public Health, answered and annotated. Price 2s. nett. Pathology, answered and annotated. Price Is. 6d. nett. THE FUNDUS OCULI, with an OPHTHALMOSCOPIC ATLAS, Illustrating its Physiological and Pathological Conditions. By W. Adams Erost, F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon, St. George’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Royal West- minster Ophthalmic Hospital, London. In one handsome 4to Volume, extra Cloth, gilt top, with 47 Plates, exhibiting 107 beautifully Coloured Figures and numerous Engravings in the Text. Price £3, 3s. nett. DISEASES of the HEART and AORTA. By G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician to the Royal Infirmary; Con- sulting Physician to the Deaconess Hospital; Lecturer on Medicine at Minto House, and on Clinical Medicine at the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xxiv., 932, with 210 Illustrations. Price 24s. (Pentland’s Medical Series, Volume Sixth. TEXT-BOOK of MEDICINE. By British Teachers. Edited by G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Edinburgh Medical School; Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. Two Volumes, Royal 8vo, Cloth, pp. xxxvi., 1734, with 122 Illustrations. Price 25s. nett. *** The list of Contributors is as follows:—J. O. Affleck, Henry Ashby, A. G. Auld, John Rose Bradford, Alexander Bruce, J. Mitchell Bruce, Sir Lauder Brunton, W. S. Colman, G. A. Gibson, A. Lockhart Gillespie, Sir William Gowers, V. D. Harris, Herbert P. Hawkins, W. Allan Jamieson, the7 YOUNG J. PENTLAND. late A, A. Kanthack, Claude B. Ker, T. W. P. Lawrence, A. P. Luff, Hector Mackenzie, Patrick Manson, Sidney Martin, Sir John William Moore, F. W. Mott, Thomas Oliver, W. Pasteur, R. W. Philip, S. Risien Russell, William Russell, Ralph Stockman, Frederick Taylor, James Taylor, W. Aldren Turner, W. Hale White, R. T. Williamson, G. E. Cartwright Wood, G. Sims Woodhead. THE NERVOUS AFFECTIONS of the HEART. Being the Morison Lectures delivered before the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh in 1902 and 1903. By George Alexander Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., F.R.S.E., Hon- orary Member of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Norwich ; Honorary Corresponding Member of the Therapeutical Society of Paris ; Physician to the Royal Infirmary, and Lecturer on Medicine and Clinical Medicine in the Medical School of the Royal Colleges, Edinburgh; Examiner in Medicine in the University of Oxford. Second Edition. 8vo, Cloth, pp. x., 10G, with 35 Illustrations. Price 5s. nett. PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS : A Guide to Methods of Clinical Investigation. By G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.Ed., Physician, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine in the Edinburgh Medical School ; and William Russell, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Assistant Physician, Edin- burgh Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on Pathology and Morbid Anatomy, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Edited by Francis D. Boyd, C.M.G., M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Assistant Physician, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 448, with 144 Illustrations. Price 9s. nett. (Pentland’s Students’ Manuals. HYDATID DISEASE in its CLINICAL ASPECTS. By James Graham, M.A., M.D., late Demonstrator of Anatomy, Sydney University ; Medical Superintendent, Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney. 8vo, Cloth, gilt top, pp. xii., 204, with 34 full-page Coloured Plates. Price 16s. HANDBOOK of OBSTETRIC NURSING. By F. W. N. Haultain, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine; Physician for Diseases8 MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY of Women, Deaconess’ Hospital ; Obstetric and Gynecological Physician to the Royal Dispensary, Edinburgh ; and J. Haig Ferguson, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Lecturer on Midwifery and Diseases of Women, School of Medicine and Jubilee Institute for Nurses, Edinburgh. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 267. Illustrated with Frontispiece and 37 Wood Engravings. Price 5s. HUMAN MONSTROSITIES. By Barton Cooke Hirst, M.D., Professor of Obstetrics in the University of Pennsylvania ; and George A. Piersol, M.D., Professor of Embryology and Histology in the University of Pennsylvania. In 4 Fasciculi, folio size. Illus- trated with Engravings and 39 full-page Photographic Plates from Nature. Price 25s. each Fasciculus. Sold only by Subscription. DISEASES of the SKIN : A Manual for Students and Practitioners. By W. Allan Jamieson, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed., Extra Physician for Diseases of the Skin, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; Lecturer on Diseases of the Skin in the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 660, with 9 Coloured Illustrations. Price 21s. (Pentland’s Medical Series, Volume First. BOTANY: A Concise Manual for Students of Medicine and Science. By Alexander Johnstone, F.G.S., Lecturer on Botany, School of Medicine, Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 260, with 164 Illustrations and a series of Floral Diagrams. Price 6s. (Pentland’s Students’ Manuals. A NEW PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY of MEDICAL TERMS. By John M. Keating, M.D., Fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, late Visiting Obstetrician to the Philadelphia Hospital, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women and Children. New impression. Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. 818. Price 7s. 6d. nett. CLINICAL GYNAECOLOGY, MEDICAL and SURGICAL. By American Authors. Edited by John M. Keating, M.D., LL.D., and Henry C. Coe, M.D., M.R.C.S., Professor of Gynae- cology, New York Polyclinic. Two Volumes, Royal 8vo, Cloth extra, gilt tops, pp. xviii., 994. Illustrated with 34 full-page Plates and 377 Engravings in the Text. Price 25s. nett.r YOUNG J. PENTLAND. 9 GYNAECOLOGICAL OPERATIONS, Exclusive op those Interfering with the Peritoneal Cavity. By Skene Keith, F.R.C.S.Ed. 8vo, Cloth extra, pp. xii., 118. Illustrated with 44 Figures. Price 5s. nett. TEXT-BOOK of ABDOMINAL SURGERY: A Clinical Manual for Practitioners and Students. By Skene Keith, F.R.C.S.Ed.; assisted by George E. Keith, M.B. 8vo, Cloth, gilt top, pp. xx., 508. Price 16s. (PentlancL’s Medical Series, Volume Fourth. RENAL GROWTHS : Their Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treat- ment. By T. N. Kelynack, M.D. (Viet.), M.R.C.P. (Lond.)., Pathologist, Manchester Royal Infirmary; Demonstrator and Assistant Lecturer in Pathology, Owens College, Manchester. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 269, with 96 Illustrations. Price 12s. 6d. nett. THE PARASITES of MAN, and the Diseases which Proceed from them. A Text-Book for Students and Practitioners. By Rudolf Leuckart, late Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Leipsic. Translated from the German, with the Co-operation of the Author, by William E. Hoyle, M.A. (Oxon.), M.R.C.S., F.R.S.E., Curator of the Museums, Owens College, Manchester. Natural History of Parasites in General—Systematic Account of the Parasites infesting Man—Protozoa—Cestoda. Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. xxviii., 772. Illustrated with 404 Engravings. Price 31s. 6d. TRAUMATIC INFECTION. Hunterian Lectures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. By Charles Barrett Lockwood, F.R.C.S., Hunterian Professor, Royal College of Surgeons of England ; Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Great Northern Central Hospital, London. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii., 138. Illustrated with 27 Wood Engravings in the Text. Price 3s. ASEPTIC SURGERY. By Charles Barrett Lockwood, F.R.C.S. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 264. Price 4s.10 MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY THE RADICAL CURE of HERNIA, HYDROCELE, and VARICOCELE. By Charles Barrett Lockwood, F.R.C.S. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii,, 279, with 23 Illustrations. Price 4s. 6d. DISEASES of the THROAT, NOSE, and EAR. A Clinical Manual for Students and Practitioners. By P. M‘Bride, M.D., F.R.C.P.Ed,, Lecturer on the Diseases of the Ear and Throat in the University; Aural Surgeon and Laryngologist, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Third Edition, thoroughly revised and partly re-written. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xviii., 744, with 48 Coloured Illustrations from Original Drawings. Price 25s. (Pcntland’s Medical Series, Volume Third. ATLAS of VENEREAL DISEASES. A Series of Illustra- tions from Original Paintings, with Descriptions of the Varied Lesions, their Differential Diagnosis and Treatment. By P. H. Maclaren,M.D., F.R.C.S.Ed., Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Formerly Surgeon in Charge of the Lock Wards, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Examiner in the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh. In One handsome Royal 4to Volume, Extra Cloth. Price 63s. nett. FUNCTIONAL and ORGANIC DISEASES of the STOMACH. By Sidney Martin, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Physician, University College Hospital; Professor of Pathology, University College, London. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 506. Illus- trated with numerous Engravings throughout the Text. Price 16s. (Pentland’s Medical Series, Volume Fifth. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM and its DISEASES. A Prac- tical Treatise on Neurology, for the use of Physicians and Students. By Charles K. Mills, M.D., Professor of Mental Diseases and of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Pennsylvania ; Clinical Professor of Neurology in the Women’s Medical College, Penn. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xxx., 1056, with 459 Illustrations. Price 25s. THE NURSING and CARE of the NERVOUS and the INSANE. By Charles K. Mills, M.D. Crown 8vo, Cloth,, pp. 147, with 14 Illustrations. Price 4s. 6d,ii YOUNG /. PENTLAND. A SYSTEM of GENITO - URINARY DISEASES, SYPHILOLOGY, and DERMATOLOGY. Edited by Prince A. Morrow, M.D. 6 Vols., Large 8vo, of about 550 pages each, fully Illustrated. Price 14s. per Volume, carriage free. MANUAL of BACTERIOLOGY. By Robert Mdir, M.D. E.R.C.P.Ed., Professor of Pathology, University of Glasgow ; and James Ritchie, M.D., B.Sc., Reader in Pathology, University of Oxford. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 548, with 150 Illustrations in the Text. Price 12s. 6d. (Pentland’s Students’ Manuals. PRESCRIBING and TREATMENT in the Diseases of Infants and Children. By Philip E. Muskett, L.R.C.P. & S.Ed., late Surgeon to the Sydney Hospital ; formerly Senior Resident Medical Officer, Sydney Hospital. Third Edition, re- vised, enlarged, and rearranged. 18mo, pp. xx., 334, in Flexible Leather binding for the pocket. Price 6s. 6d. LEAD POISONING, in its Acute and Chronic Forms. Being THE GOCLSTONIAN LECTURES DELIVERED AT THE ROYAL COLLEGE of Physicians. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician Royal Infirmary, Newcastle-on-Tyne ; Professor of Physiology, University of Durham. 8vo, Cloth, pp. xii., 122, with Coloured Illustrations. Price 10s. 6d. THE SCIENCE and ART of OBSTETRICS. By Theo- philus Parvin, M.D., LL.D., late Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children in Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, and one of the Obstetricians to the Philadelphia Hospital. Third Edition, thoroughly revised. Large 8vo, Cloth, pp. 685, with 269 Wood Engravings, and 2 Coloured Plates. Price 18s. COMPEND of HUMAN ANATOMY, INCLUDING THE ANATOMY of the Viscera. By Samuel O. L. Potter, M.A., M.D., Cooper Medical College, San Francisco. Seventh Edition, revised and enlarged. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. 372, with 138 Engravings ; also numerous Tables and 16 full-page Plates. Price 5s. nett.12 MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSUED BY TEXT-BOOK of PHYSIOLOGY. By Bbitish Physiologists. Edited by E. A. Schafer, F.R.S., Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh. Two Volumes. Vol. I., Royal 8vo, Cloth, pp. xx., 1036, with 3 Plates and 93 Illustrations in the Text. Price 31s. 6d. Vol. II., pp. xxiv., 1365, with 449 Illustrations in the Text. Price 42s. *** The list of Contributors is as follows Professor Sir Burdon Sanderson (Oxford), Professor Gamgee, Dr. Gaskell (Cambridge), Professor Gotch (Oxford), Professor Sherrington (Liverpool), Professor M'Kendrick (Glasgow), Professor Halli- burton (King’s College), Professor Haycraft (Cardiff), Dr. Pembrey (Guy’s), Professor Starling (University College), W. H. R. Rivers (Cambridge), J. N. Langley (Cambridge), Professor Waymouth Reid (Dundee), B. Moore (Charing Cross), E. G. Hopkins (Cambridge), Leonard Hill (London Hospital), J. S. Edkins (St. Bartholomew’s), A. A. Gray (Glasgow), D. Noel Paton (Edinburgh), and the Editor. ILLUSTRATIONS of ZOOLOGY, Invertebrates and Verte- brates. By William Ramsay Smith, M.B., B.Sc., and J. Stewart , Norwell, B.Sc. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 4to, extra Cloth, gilt top, with 70 Plates, exhibiting over 400 Figures. Price 7s. 6d. PRACTICAL GUIDE to the EXAMINATION of the EYE. For Students and Junior Practitioners. By Simeon Snell, F.R.C.S.Ed., Ophthalmic Surgeon, Sheffield General Infirmary. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. xvi., 177, with 88 Illustrations. Price 5s. LECTURES on GIDDINESS and on HYSTERIA in the MALE. By Sir Thomas Grainger Stewart, M.D., LL.D., late Physician-in-Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen for Scotland, and Professor of the Practice of Physic and of Clinical Medicine in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, Cloth, pp. x., 89, with 13 Illustrations. Price 2s. 6d. nett.