8 of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The interior of this passage is lined by the hollo wed-out prolongation of the fascia transversalis.” Velpeau is to the same effect, Traite d’Anatomie Chirurgicale, ou Anatomie des Regions, Paris 1826, tome ii. page 78. Sir Astley Cooper, in his book on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, (1830,) gives the following description of the anatomy of the inguinal canal, and which is a revision of, and improvement upon that to be found in his first Work on this subject. “ This canal is bounded at the lower part by the external abdominal ring, formed by the tendon of the external oblique muscle ; at its upper part, by the internal ring, formed by the fascia transversalis. In dissecting it, after removing the integuments, the superficial fascia of the tendon of the external oblique muscle is laid bare. An incision is to be made through the tendon of the external oblique, beginning above the abdominal ring, and extending near to the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium. The edges of the divided tendon being then turned down, the inguinal canal is brought into view. At the lower part of the canal, just above the abdominal ring, the spermatic cord appears in the centre, the cremaster muscle between it and Poupart’s ligament ; above it the tendinous insertion of the internal oblique muscle, which passes behind the upper part of the abdominal ring to the sheath of the rectus muscle. At the upper part of the canal, in this first view, the internal oblique is seen arising from Poupart’s ligament, and crossing over the cord and part of the cremaster muscle in the form of an arch: some of its muscular fibres blend with those of the cremaster. “ Upon raising the lower edge of the internal oblique from Poupart’s ligament, and turning it upwards, the transversalis abdominis appears. It arises from Poupart’s ligament, under the internal oblique, and also blends with some of the fibres of the cremaster. It forms an arch over the spermatic cord, and is inserted, with the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, into the tendinous covering of the rectus. But the lower edge of the transversalis has a very peculiar insertion, which I have hinted at in my work on Hernia. It begins to be fixed in Poupart’s ligament, almost immediately below the commencement of the internal ring, and it continues to be inserted behind the spermatic cord into Poupart’s ligament, as far as the attachment of the rectus. Thus the inguinal canal is endowed with