10 tions are not sufficiently clear and distinct, if not in some respects faulty, or that there is so great a variety in the formation of these parts, as to render any one account of them inapplicable to the greater number. No student can look at the four engravings Nq. 1. of Plate I., and No. 1.2. 3. of Plate II., appended to this paper, and believe that they are intended to represent the same parts in the same stage of dissection, without drawing very much on his imagination; yet they are really intended for that purpose. I hardly dare venture to give the reason which in my mind has led to the great apparent discrepancy of opinion which exists between so many able men on so plain a matter of fact. It is possible that it may have arisen from the great mirtuteness with which it has been attempted to describe parts that scarcely deserve it, especially the fascia transversalis, and from the great variety which exists in the formation of several of the principal parts. Sir Astley Cooper first gave to the fascia the name of fascia transversalis, and drew attention to it in so marked a manner as to attract that of other anatomists. Jules Cloquet made it an object of particular study, and Blandin and Velpeau consider it to have been more accurately investigated by him, on which account I have transcribed his account of it, page 5. Cloquet says, that he had not seen Sir Astley Cooper’s Work, but had formed his ideas of it from that of Mr. Lawrence; and it appears to me that he, Blandin, and Velpeau, have fallen into a misapprehension on the subject, common to many of our own countrymen, who have described that to be fascia transversalis alone, which is in reality the tendon or aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle implanted upon it; for without such misapprehension it is impossible to say that the spermatic cord always lies on the fascia transversalis in any part of its course after it has passed the superior opening of the inguinal canal, and has emerged from under the fleshy fibres of the transversalis muscle; nevertheless this is said to be the case. The statement made by Cloquet, Blandin, and Velpeau, that the fascia trans- versalis arises from the inner edge of Poupart’s ligament by a reflection upwards of that part, whilst Sir Astley Cooper describes it as passing beneath to form the sheath of the femoral vessels is another cause, I suspect, of the misunder- standing which has taken place. Cloquet, who wrote from very laborious ob- servation, says, in a note at page 26 of his Work, and in addition to the obser- vations I have quoted, page 6, “ that very often the fascia transversalis is evi-