25 is in all cases an occasional positive absence of pain, and pressure gives relief. Let us suppose a young and healthy man to be brought to an hospital with an inguinal hernia of recent formation, presumed to have been strangulated only four or six hours. On examination, the swelling is found to be painful, and very tense when touched. The nausea and sickness are frequent; the pain at the umbilicus severe and increased on pressure; the pulse small and hard; the countenance distressed. What should be done? The answer is positive, 1. The operation with the least possible delay. 2. The exhibition of from four to six grains of calomel with a grain and a half of soft opium. 3. The abstraction of blood. 4. Stimulating injections per anum: and lastly, Gentle purgatives if the bowels do not act of themselves satisfactorily. If on the other hand a young and healthy man is brought to an hospital, with a similar hernia which has been strangulated from four to six hours, the part being but little painful, the umbilicus only tender on pressure, but not acutely sensible, the operation may be delayed until the effect of bleeding unto syncope in combination with the hot bath have been ascertained; but no time must be lost in the trial, and it is quite useless to make it if the herniary swelling will not admit of considerable pressure without much suffering. It is a difficult thing to decide when incarceration ends and strangulation begins, and it is consequently almost impossible to compute the length of time a part has been in that state ; frequent observation has, however, taught us, that a hernia of recent formation cannot remain in a state of incarceration ending in strangu- lation for a longer period than ten hours, without placing the patient’s life in great jeopardy, and that the operation is always less dangerous than the con- tinuation of repeated and ineffectual trials at reduction. An operation, on the other hand, is not to be had recourse to until its necessity is evident; inasmuch as a person may die from it and not from the disease: and I have often been enabled to restore the protruded parts by a well directed treatment, almost at the moment when the failure to do so would have been followed by the operation. I should regret, however, very much to be misunderstood on this point; for I am quite satisfied the general result of cases of recent hernise has shown that it is better to operate even half an hour before it is absolutely necessary to do it, than to delay for ten minutes after the necessity for an operation has become obvious. The French surgeons, who operate at an earlier period than we gene- E