14 its inferior portion forwards and beneath the spermatic cord in so marked a manner. This part of the muscle more frequently becomes tendinous and apo- neurotic ; but its fibres, although tendinous, are distinctly marked, running transversely in continuity with the fleshy fibres of the muscle, and are insepa- rably united to Poupart’s ligament. In some instances the muscular fibres of the transversalis do not take so oblique a direction from without inwards and downwards, but crossing more horizontally, send down a narrow tendon, on forming with the internal oblique the sheath of the rectus, which descends almost perpendicularly for some distance, to be inserted into the tuberosity or spine of the os pubis. The inferior or aponeurotic part of the transversalis may be equally present, forming the inferior edge of the inner opening of the inguinal canal; but this formation cannot take place if the spermatic cord passes imme- diately over Poupart’s ligament, in which case, this ligament forms the under part of the inner opening of the inguinal canal, the lower edge of the transver- salis muscle the upper, and the fascia transversalis the sides. The epigastric artery runs within a few lines of distance from the internal edge of this part or opening; and between this vessel, on the outside, the edge of the rectus on the other, and Poupart’s ligament below as the base, the triangular space of Hes- selbach is formed, through which that sort of hernia takes place, which is called internal by him, but direct by Sir Astley Cooper, to distinguish it from the more common one which, passing through the inner or superior opening of the ring, is called external by Hesselbach, and oblique inguinal hernia by Sir Astley Cooper. When the transversalis muscle is inserted broadly into Poupart’s ligament by its superior fibres only, the anterior ones pass on to form the sheath of the rectus, and to be inserted into the tuberosity of the os pubis; but a layer of fibres internal to these (the folded fibres of Sir Astley Cooper,) are implanted on the fibrous external layer of the fascia transversalis, and curve downwards to be inserted into Poupart’s ligament, or proceed, according to Breschet, to form what he calls the pretended ligament of Gimbernat, and which he will not admit to be a third insertion of the external oblique muscle. These fibres are depicted by Cloquet (Plate I. fig. 3.) as belonging to the fascia transversalis, and by Breschet (Plate III. fig. 1.), in his Considerations et Observations Anatomiques et Pathologiques sur la Hernie Femorale, Paris 1819, as essentially going to form the internal layer of Gimbernat’s ligament, of which the fascia lata of the thigh