5 leones, tab. x. 6. M.), which, at this precise point, becomes continuous with the peritoneum lining the abdomen. The removal of the hernial sac will disclose the course of the spermatic cord in its descent towards the testicle ; and when this is also elevated, the first part of the course of the epigastric artery, and its origin from the iliac trunk, are exposed. (Lawrence On Ruptures, edit. 4. p. 203.) ” The following is Cloquet’s description of these parts :— ‘ ‘ The inferior fibres of the internal oblique muscle have a direction nearly transverse. They are usually intimately intermingled with those of the trans- versalis muscle, which is placed behind it. They are inserted externally into Poupart’s ligament, internally into the pubes, between its spine and angle. The inferior edge of the internal oblique is then parallel with the crural arch (Pou- part’s ligament). In some persons it is separated, and very distinct from the transversalis muscle; in others it is so intimately connected with it, that they cannot be separated. A number of dissections, carefully made, appear to show, that the inferior edge of the transversalis muscle, composed of very pale fine fibres, passes in a transverse direction across the spermatic cord, at the spot where it enters the inguinal canal; that is, on a level with the superior opening of the canal. It is inserted internally in the inferior part of the linea alba, and slightly to the pubes by uniting with the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, the inferior edge of which muscle, arising, as I have said, from the crural arch (Poupart’s ligament), descends parallel to it, covering the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, and is attached internally to the pubes. The internal oblique crosses over the spermatic cord just at the point where it passes out from the superior opening of the inguinal canal. The fibres, which go to form the cremaster muscle, change their direction and form; those which were straight and nearly hori- zontal, become curved and vertical. They pass through and descend below the ring, forming successively, in front of the spermatic cord, several nooses or arches, with their concavities turned upwards, and which may be traced to the bottom of the scrotum. These fibres are situated upon the anterior face of the spermatic cord and tunica vaginalis. “ The inferior fibres of the transversalis muscle are very thin, run transversely, and give rise to an aponeurosis, which passes inwards, and soon unites with the internal oblique muscle, which lies exterior to it and goes to be inserted with it in