22 of the stomach; and the same thing takes place in wounds. I have already stated the reason why the inflammation is more acute in recent hernise, and it only therefore remains to show why certain remedies are more proper in one case than in another;—why bleeding, for instance, which is a sheet-anchor in recent hernise that have become strangulated, is comparatively useless in old ones. In recent hernise, the part forming the stricture is positively contracted from spasm and inflammation, and the pressure is direct. In old hernise, the rounded smooth ring through which the protruded parts pass, does not admit of being diminished in size by any spasmodic action of the surrounding structures, or only in a comparatively trifling degree, and the pressure is therefore not direct; the ring is passive. The parts forced into it by any sudden exertion, suffer from their own distention, from whatever cause it may arise; and from the evils which must invariably follow from soft parts being made to press unduly against others of a much firmer nature. In old hernise which have become strangulated, the first evil is from congestion and distention: the first stage is that of incarceration, followed ultimately by inflammation, first shown by pain at the umbilicus, and after a greater or less lapse of time by pain in the part, but which is never so acute as in the recent cases. It is, then, in recent cases of hernise only which have become strangulated, that bleeding is of so much importance, aided by the warm bath, and followed by the use of the tobacco enema in young and healthy persons, previously to the performance of an operation. The application of cold to the tumour is in my mind always secondary to that of the hot bath, and should only be had recourse to in recent hernise which have become strangulated, when it cannot be procured. On the same principle, however, cold when used must be efficient. In large towns, and in winter, a mixture of salt and pounded ice can at all times be obtained, and applied in a half-filled bladder, or the freezing mixture of Sir Astley Cooper, composed of two ounces and a half of nitrate of potash, with the same quantity of muriate of ammonia and ten ounces of water, which in cases of old hernia will often be found very efficient. Tartar emetic is often talked of as a remedy in strangulated hernia; but as its effects cannot be controlled, and great nausea and vomiting are often produced, it is obvious that the efforts made in vomiting may be more detrimental than the debilitating nature of the remedy can be beneficial. Purgatives are always