11 dently formed of two aponeurotic layers, which are united on a level with the top of the crural arch. Of these the anterior comes from the arch itself (Pou- part’s ligament), the posterior being only a continuation of the fascia iliaca, which quits the iliac muscle to ascend upon the anterior wall of the abdomen. These two layers thus reunited proceed back to back between the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. It is easy to separate them on the outside of the superior opening of the inguinal canal, but on the inside and around it they are intimately united. When this formation is met with, the posterior layer passes usually behind the rectus muscle in its way to the linea alba, whilst the anterior one is continuous with the edge of the tendon of the rectus. The epigastric artery is sometimes posterior, sometimes anterior, and sometimes even between these two layers.” This description, which Cloquet gives as of an accidental occurrence, is, in my opinion, that which most frequently takes place; and if the fascia transversalis be said to be composed of two layers, the anterior being fibrous, the posterior cellular, much confusion will be avoided. The division which is made of the fascia transversalis into two parts, where it lines the wall of the abdomen, one being called external, the,, other internal, or anterior and posterior by Sir Astley Cooper, (but which are not the anterior and posterior layers of Cloquet,) the spermatic cord passing between them through an opening, which is named the superior opening of the inguinal canal; is also a fertile source of inconvenience to the student, who will seek in vain for any such opening. If he is taught to consider the fascia transversalis as a sheet of condensed cellular membrane divisible in some parts into two layers, passing upwards from Poupart’s ligament to fortify the peritoneum, he will readily un- derstand it; and if he is shown that at a certain spot it becomes much thinner and allows the spermatic cord to pass through, he cannot fall into any misap- prehension. This part is not however an opening ; it is merely the thin portion of the fascia which, as the testis escaped from the abdomen, was carried forward by that gland, and is now seen attaching itself to the spermatic cord. If this cord be drawn down and an incision be made around it close to where it is attached to the peritoneum, a sort of ring is formed, and if the finger be intro- duced, the thin part can be stretched or torn, until the firm internal edge of the denser anterior layer of fascia transversalis can be distinctly seen, having the epigastric artery a little to its inner side. The outer side of the ring is not so c 2