23 injurious as such, being merely irritants; although calomel combined with opium in a soft state may be administered with advantage, as allaying irritation of the stomach and procuring ease. Injections of hot gruel, with salt and oils of various kinds, are useful, inasmuch as they clear the rectum, and may also reach the great intestines, if the tube of the syringe be long and introduced to its full length, which it always should be in every case of constipation, so that it may reach the sigmoid flexure of the colon: but an error must not he com- mitted in such cases, by supposing that the discharges are from above the stricture unless all the symptoms subside, even if the protruded part is not returned. The application of pressure or the taxis, is limited by the state of the part. In recent herniae which have become strangulated, it must entirely depend on the pain felt by the patient. If the tumour is so painful when touched that the person cannot bear it, the operation ought not to be delayed; and more parti- cularly if the swelling is hard and tense like a ball, or if any discoloration of the skin has taken place. In these cases, delay is not admissible; and the operation should be done without reference to the time the part has been supposed to have been strangulated; it being immaterial whether it has taken twelve or only two hours to arrive at this state. In a young and healthy person, an attempt may be made at once to return the protruded part by a well directed and steadily sup- ported pressure in the direction of the swelling in the inguinal canal, the parts being relaxed by position. But if there be any pain in the tumour, and this is increased by the pressure, it will be advisable to bleed to fainting in the erect position, before further efforts be made at reduction. I have frequently reduced an incarcerated hernia after bleeding which was irreducible before, and much more frequently after the patient had been again brought to a state of syncope from the effects of the hot bath. The best time to make the attempt at reduc- tion, is a few minutes after the patient has been taken out of bed and laid be- tween the blankets. If it fails after a steady well supported application for at least fifteen minutes, the patient should be returned to the bath, and a second attempt be made in the course of an hour, provided always that delay is war- ranted by the non-painful state of the part, and the absence of severe general symptoms. If a patient is presented with a strangulated hernia, even one of recent for-