32 femoral vessels; but this manner of expressing it leads to the same misappre- hension, in my opinion, as the French mode of describing it as protruding into the superior opening of the crural canal. They both imply or admit of its being supposed that the hernial or peritoneal sac passes down by the side of and in direct contact with the femoral vein, which is demonstrably an error in those who so understand it. In all the dissections of femoral hernise I have had an opportunity of making, the septum crurale of Cloquet, or the fascia propria of Sir Astley Cooper, formed a distinct sac, separated from the septum on the inside of the femoral vein by a mass of condensed cellular structure, sometimes more than half an inch in thick- ness ; the septum had been elongated into an outer sac for the hernia, and had grown down by the side of the sheath of the vein. The hernial sac or perito- neum is not then projected into the sheath of the femoral vessels, but into a separate sac, which it forms for itself by the side of them. When the French anatomists say that the hernial sac is protruded into the superior opening of the crural canal, takes the course of that canal, and re-appears at its lower opening, or where the vena saphena joins the femoral vein, it is only intelligible by under- standing that the hernial sac lies in contact with the femoral vein, whereas it passes by the side of it, separated from it by two portions of sheath, viz. one formed by the septum on the inside of the vein, the other by the elongated part of the septum crurale, or fascia propria, which forms the outer sac. This lies on the pubic portion of the fascia lata of the thigh, and if it descends far enough, is found outside the opening for the passage of the vena saphena, but does not come through it from the inside. The hernial sac having descended below Poupart’s ligament, carries before it the septum, or fascia propria, and now has above it Poupart’s ligament, behind it the pubic portion of the fascia lata ; to the pubic or in-side, Gimbernat’s liga- ment, to the outside the sheath of the femoral vein. Breschet considers Gim- bernat’s ligament to be erroneously described as a third insertion of the external oblique muscle, or as a part of Poupart’s ligament; and supposes it to be formed behind by the transversalis tendon, and before by the fascia lata. The manner in which the transversalis sends down its fibres to form the posterior part, is shown in Plate III. fig. 1.; but the part which the fascia lata has in forming the anterior part, does not appear to me to be sufficiently appreciated. The