20 appears to me to account in a satisfactory manner for all the circumstances and differences which take place between recent and old hernise. It does more; it enables us to account for the great difference which exists in the treatment of these two conditions of hernia. It also reconciles and removes the discre- pancy observable between the anatomy as hitherto described, and the surgery as hitherto taught. It removes the difficulty which students had in compre- hending why some surgeons recommend one mode of treatment, and some another: why for instance bleeding has been recommended by Sharp, Pott, B. Bell, Sabatier, Richter, Callisen, Scarpa, and Sir Astley Cooper,—names which can never be surpassed in respectability; whilst Wilmer, Alanson, and others, have published against the practice. In order to understand these points, it is necessary to consider the changes which have been stated to occur in the relative situation and structure of the parts, and to make a very marked difference between hernise which are of recent origin and those of very long standing. In a recent hernia, or one which has taken place but a short time before it became incarcerated or strangulated, the parts through which it passes are comparatively but little altered from their natural state; and from the view which has been taken of their anatomy, the inner opening of the ring is a muscular structure capable of exercising great compres- sion on the protruded parts, and often in a complete circle; so that when these fibres are spasmodically excited, the compression may be so great as to prevent all circulation in the hernia, giving rise to a state of strangulation; or it may be only to that extent which compresses and retains the protruded parts without entirely preventing circulation, and which is a state of incarceration. In either case inflammation will soon follow, (unless the pressure is removed,) in conse- quence of the sharpness of the edges of the compressing parts, and the force with which they contract on those that are protruded, whilst the secretion of fluids and of air into them adds to the mischief. The first and greatest object to be attained in a recent hernia which has become strangulated, is to take off the spasmodic and inflammatory contraction of the transversalis muscle forming the inner ring, which is best done by producing syncope; and there are three great and common means for effecting this object; viz. bleeding, the warm bath, and the tobacco enema. When blood is drawn in a recent hernia which has become strangulated, it should be done or continued, the patient sitting in an erect position,