29 to add worthy of remark. The sac should be cautiously opened on its anterior and lower part, where some fluid will usually be found, and then slit up as high as the external ring. If the stricture should not be situated there, but at the inner or superior opening being formed by the edge of the transversalis muscle, the method of proceeding depends on whether it is a recent or an old hernia. If a recent oblique one and the inguinal canal is little altered from its natural state, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle forming its outer wall, should be divided in an oblique direction outwards, so as to expose the swelling near its neck. This may now be drawn down, whilst the more external parts are drawn up so as to bring the stricture into view, when it and the neck of the sac should be divided together directly upwards. It has been recommended not to divide the anterior wall of the inguinal canal, but to introduce a cutting instrument on its flat side in an oblique direction outwards, for the distance of an inch and a half, and then to turn its edge, and cut in the dark directly upwards, which appears to me almost impossible to do, to say nothing of its being very dangerous. I therefore always advise that the aponeurosis of the external oblique be slit up to that extent, which will enable the surgeon, by drawing down the sac, to see whereabouts his knife is to cut and the direction it is to take. I am an advocate for dividing the neck of the sac with the stricture, rather than for leaving an inch of it uncut below the stricture. It was supposed that this would prevent an inflammation of the peritoneum; but the experience of the Peninsular war proved, that a cut of half an inch in length was as dangerous as one of an inch, and that the admission of air into the cavity of the abdomen did no mischief. In old hernise, and in those of direct descent, the openings are nearly opposed to each other, and this difficulty does not occur. The incision in all cases should be made directly upwards, because it more certainly obviates danger from the epigastric artery in case of an error as to the kind of hernia ; but the division of this artery is after all but an anatomical bugbear. I am ready to admit that if a surgeon pokes a knife the length of an inch and a half in the inguinal canal, and then cuts with the end of it, he knows not what nor where, and in this manner divides a large artery, his patient’s case may be hopeless ; but if he has proceeded in the manner I have mentioned, he will have very little difficulty in placing a ligature on the artery as soon as he has cut it, and the danger to his patient will be but little increased.