3 not satisfactorily explain; that it was, therefore, a point in anatomy deserving investigation, for a discrepancy of this kind could not exist in nature ; and that there must be something defective in our knowledge of the subject. That it may not be considered I am combating a shadow, I shall first show what are the opinions of some of the ablest anatomists who have written on these points, and then proceed to develope my own. Mr. Samuel Cooper, whose Surgical Dictionary may be justly consulted as a summary of the opinions of the principal surgeons of Europe, has given, in the last edition of this Work (of 1830), page 653, the following account of the anatomy of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia, compiled with especial reference to the Works of Sir Astley Cooper, Messrs. Lawrence, Scarpa, Hesselbach, Cloquet, and Langenbeck. “The tendinous fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, as they run downwards and forwards towards the pubes, separate from each other, so as to leave a triangular opening, called the abdominal ring, which is usually more capacious in the male than the female subject. The upper and inner pillar (as it is termed,) of this aperture is inserted into the symphysis of the pubes, and is the weakest of the two; the lower and outer one, which is the strongest, is chiefly a continuation of Poupart’s ligament (Hesselbach, Uber den Unsprung, fyc. der Leisten-und-Schenkelbriiche, p. 4.), and is fixed into the angle and crista of the same bone. Some tendinous fibres cross the upper and outer angle of the ring, so as to diminish the triangular appearance of the whole aperture : these are said to be very strong in old hernise. The anterior and thicker layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle joins the tendon of the external oblique; the posterior and thinner one joins that of the transversalis ; but the lower por- tion of this tendon, together with the corresponding part of the transversalis, goes wholly in front of the rectus muscle. Thus, the inferior border of the obli- quus internus and transversalis, which originates from the upper part of Pou- part’s ligament, lies behind the outer pillar of the abdominal ring. Sir Astley Cooper first noticed, that a thin fascia proceeds from the inner edge of Poupart’s ligament, and spreads over the posterior surface of the transversalis. This fascia forms the only partition between the peritoneum and the outer opening of the abdominal ring ; and were it not for its existence, inguinal hernise would pro- bably be much more frequent. The partition in question, however, is said by b 2