17 one covering. When enumerated from without, the coverings are the integu- ments, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, the tendinous expansions of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles when they exist, the fascia transver- salis, and peritoneum. The internal oblique muscle would in the male form a layer of muscular and tendinous fibres external to the transversalis, and a complete support or covering to this part of the abdomen, if it were not for the opening to admit of the de- scent of the testis and the passage of the spermatic cord. The gubernaculum testis, a part of original formation, is supposed to possess the power of drawing down the testis through this opening, which I very much doubt. I believe that the testis descends or ascends, as the case may be, at the proper period, for the same reason that a child is usually born at nine months in preference to any other period of utero-gestation, which is, as Avicenna says, by the will of God. The office of the gubernaculum appears to be to keep a passage open which might otherwise be closed, if it were not occupied in this manner, rather than to operate on the testis by any contraction of its substance. As the testis passes through the transversalis muscle it may bring down with it any fibres which lie in its way; and when this occurs, the transversalis is found to be united at this part to the internal oblique, and the fibres thus brought down assist in forming the cremaster muscle, which is nothing more than a certain portion of the lower edge of the internal oblique caught by the testis and carried before it. The fibres caught on the centre of the testis are carried down with it into the scrotum, by a gradual elongation, so that they form a sort of sling around the testis, which supports and can raise it towards the abdominal ring, whilst those fibres which are only entangled on its anterior and posterior sur- faces, form arches, which descend before or behind according to the situation of the points of entanglement. The cremaster muscle is then a portion of the under edges of the transversalis and of the internal oblique muscles, arising also from Poupart’s ligament by its under edge, until it is carried away by the descent of the testis ; but the point of insertion of these fibres remains the same, viz. into Poupart’s ligament near the pubes, after forming the sling and the arches above described, and which point of insertion was considered by Scarpa and others until the time of Cloquet, to be another or second origin, which is evi- dently an error. When the testis is detained in the abdomen, it is not for the D