28 little use, save as they act generally in reducing inflammation, because there is no muscular contraction to subdue ; whilst on the other hand cold steadily ap- plied may be of great service, when combined with such mechanical pressure as may be found advisable. In these cases stimulating injections are of great use, and if they be applied, as Mr. O’Beirne of Dublin advises, by means of a tube ten inches long, with a hole at the end of it, and introduced into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the happiest results will I think follow in a much greater proportion than at present. It draws off the flatus as well as the watery contents of the bowels, whilst the cold acting on the tumour condenses the air contained in the incarcerated intestine, and tends to cause it to pass more readily into the abdomen. In those cases which are of a mixed character, being neither of recent nor of old formation, the proper course to be pursued must depend on the judgment of the surgeon, in adopting an intermediate course, and in a proper selection of these different remedies. The use of purgatives after the operation, which has been equally lauded and decried, without sufficient reason being given, admits of strict regulation on sound principles. In recent hernias which have been operated upon, none but the most gentle aperients should be given; the object being to persuade the bowels to act, and not to force them by irritation. They have been, if they are not actually in a state of inflammation, and an irritating purgative may induce its return, and counteract the effect for which it has been given. If on the con- trary it acts violently, the intestine, weakened by the congestion and inflamma- tion which it has suffered, may not be able to sustain this superadded irrita- tion. I have known an intestine returned to the cavity of the abdomen in a doubtful state, (which is the proper course to pursue,) give way under severe purging, and allow the faeces to escape by the wound; the patient recovered, but I have little doubt that mischief has been often done in a similar way. In old hernise when the incarceration has continued some days, and probably arose from obstruction in the first instance, the happiest effects have often followed the exhibition of active purgatives after the restoration of the protruded parts, whether by the taxis or by operation, and it appears to me that it is in these cases only they are to be recommended. With regard to the manner of performing the operation itself, I have nothing