4 Scarpa to be formed by the aponeurosis of the internal oblique and transverse muscles ; while Hesselbach, who has named the small smooth point, situated directly behind the outer opening of the abdominal ring, its crural surface, distinctly states that it is formed by delicate fleshy and tendinous fibres of the internal oblique muscle (Uber den Ursprung, fyc. der Leisten-und-Schenkelbriiche, p. 4.) ; and that behind them is the weakest part of what he names the internal inguinal ligament, in the rear of which is the peritoneum, with the intervention of a very loose cellular substance (Op. cit., p. 26.). The internal inguinal liga- ment of Hesselbach is, therefore, clearly the same thing as the above fascia, first pointed out by Sir Astley Cooper. This point of the abdomen is one of the three weak places on the inside of the inguinal region, where hernise are liable to occur ; yet, weak as it appears to be, it is not the most common situation for such tumours. A computation has been made, that in a hundred cases of inguinal hernia, not ten occur at the point here specified (H. J. Briinninghausen, Unter- richt uber die Briiche, fyc. Wurzb. 1811.). Mr. Lawrence observes, that if we trace the fascia transversalis from the crural arch upwards, we shall find it divided immediately into two portions, an internal and external, which leave between them a considerable interval, just in the middle of the crural arch. The former of these, which is the strongest and most decidedly fibrous, is con- nected by its inner edge to the outer margin of the rectus, and to the inferior margin of the tendon of the obliquus internus and transversus ; and both are gradually lost above, between the peritoneum and transversus (On Ruptures, ed. 4. p. 179.).”—Mr. S. Cooper then proceeds to give the following explanation of the parts as they appear on dissection (p. 658.). “The removal of the integuments exposes the exterior investment of the hernial tumour, continuous with the mar- gins of the ring, and formed of tendinous fibres from the aponeurosis, the cre- master muscle, &c. This is connected by cellular substance with the proper hernial sac, formed of the peritoneum. This production of the peritoneum passes within the ring of the external oblique, and then goes upwards and out- wards. Behind and above the ring, the inferior margin of the obliquus internus and transversalis crosses the neck of the sac. When these muscles are reflected towards the linea alba, the fascia, ascending from Poupart’s ligament, and form- ing the upper opening of the ring, is exposed, and the epigastric artery is disco- vered emerging from the inner side of the neck of the hernial sac (Camperi