9 muscular contraction, which, under the action of the abdominal muscles, serves to close it, to lessen the propensity to hernia. Sometimes a portion of muscle descends from the tendon of the transversalis in the course of the linea semilunaris, to be inserted into the fascia transversalis, behind the cord, and into Poupart’s ligament. It is this circular insertion of the transversalis which is the cause of stric- ture in inguinal hernia, in the course of the canal, and nearly at the upper ring. “ Behind this insertion of the transversalis, the internal portion of the fascia transversalis appears, adhering strongly to the tendon of that muscle at the back of the inguinal canal. Thus the inguinal canal is, at its anterior part, formed by the tendon of the external oblique; in its posterior, by the tendon of the transversalis, and by its folded muscular fibres ; behind which is the fascia transversalis, into which those fibres are also inserted. It contains the spermatic cord and the internal oblique muscle. Its lower part is bounded by the external abdominal ring, formed by the separation of the tendons of the external obliqife muscle ; and at its upper extremity are placed the two portions of the fascia transversalis, forming, with the tendon of the transversalis, the internal ring ; the anterior continued from the edge of Poupart’s ligament to the outer side of the spermatic cord ; the posterior, or internal, descending behind Poupart’s ligament, to form the crural sheath, and ascending behind the spermatic cord and tendon of the transversalis. Between the two layers passes the spermatic cord. From the edge of the two portions of fascia, a layer of membrane extends in a funnel shape, uniting itself with the spermatic cord : thus the cord becomes united to each aperture through which it passes ; at the external ring, by the fascia superficialis; at the upper part of the canal, by membranous processes from the fascia transversalis, which descend upon and envelope the spermatic cord. The epigastric artery, arising from the external iliac at Poupart’s liga- ment, curves inwards and upwards, behind the inguinal canal, to the rectus muscle, giving an artery to the cremaster in its course.” The reader cannot fail to be surprised at the great difference which exists between these different versions of the same thing, and that a plain matter of fact, and not of imagination; and a student in anatomy and surgery, on trying to reconcile them by an actual examination of the parts, will find considerable difficulty in making his dissection correspond with any one of the descriptions which have been quoted ; and he will be led to conclude, either that the descrip- c