26 rally do in this country, are certainly not less successful than ourselves ; and of two extremes, theirs is assuredly the safest. The practice of surgery with reference to recent hernise is infinitely more clear and precise than it is with regard to old hernise, and for the reasons I have assigned, viz. The symptoms are so much more marked and decided in their course and termination. It is not often that an error is committed in cases of recently strangulated hernise ; it is not uncommon in cases of old hernise which have become incarcerated or strangulated In old hernise which have become strangulated, the state of parts as well as the nature of the symptoms are essentially different. From the alteration which has taken place in the form, situation and structure of the openings through which the parts are protruded, they are not likely to suffer any diminution of size from muscular contraction; the hernise are therefore incarcerated or detained, and the bowel is obstructed, rather than it is compressed and strangulated, and the symptoms are consequently more of obstruction than of inflammation. One of the purest cases of this kind I am acquainted with, I had the opportunity of seeing with Mr. Chinnock of Brompton. It was an old gentleman, who had an incarcerated inguinal hernia of three days’ duration. The swelling was large and very hard; but as the integuments were thin, and the part not painful, it admitted of accurate examination. The hardness appeared to he dependent on a collec- tion of solid faecal matter, and after some trials a portion of it at the upper part was broken, and pressed through the external ring. This was followed by a second, and so on in succession until the whole was pushed into the abdomen, with the intestine which had contained it. The symptoms immediately subsided, and a dose of purgative medicine completed the cure. The openings in the abdomen through which the parts protruded were in this case entirely passive. In some instances it has been proved by operation and consequent exposure of the parts, that the symptoms induced depended entirely on mere detention without compression, which had given rise to obstruction; the intestine in the sac showing little or no signs of inflammation, and the openings being sufficiently large to admit the fore finger in addition without any previous enlargement. The symptoms in these cases were caused by the obstruction, whether dependent on a peculiar apposition of different parts of the intestine, competent to produce such effect, or by adhesions between them and the sac, or from other causes.