24 mation, in whom the general symptoms are very severe, and evidently from that cause; the operation (that is, the obtaining of complete relief,) should not be de- layed, although the tumour itself may be comparatively but little painful. These general symptoms are the pain at the umbilicus, the irritability of stomach, the anxiety of countenance, and the failing state of the pulse. These symptoms of inflammation of the intestines accompany each other; and when they are well marked, the danger is imminent, and the decision must be prompt. The two most important symptoms, are the anxiety of countenance, and the failing of the pulse; they mark the severity of the inflammation and its tendency to gangrene, whilst the pain and irritability of stomach only indicate its existence. They are, in fact, symptoms which must always be judged of by comparison; some people suffering more apparently than others, with less real cause: but the anxiety of countenance to which I allude, and which, when complete in a more advanced stage, is called the facies hippocratica, cannot be mistaken; neither can the pulse, the almost extinction of which more distinctly marks the great degree of inflammation. The state of the pulse in inflammation of the viscera of the abdomen is remarkable, from being small, hard, quick, and vibra- ting like a cord in the generality of cases; but when the inflammation sets in with great intensity, the pulse often alters its character, becoming smaller, and sometimes so indistinct as scarcely to be felt, rendering the abstraction of blood imperative; and the quantity to be drawn must be regulated by the pain, as ascertained by pressure on the umbilicus. The presence of pain on pressure, and the diminution or absence of pulse, are only signs of great inflammation. The absence of both pain and of pulse, are signs that gangrene has taken place; hut then the anxiety of countenance will be so marked, the face so pale and so bedewed with large drops of perspiration, that an error cannot be committed as to what has occurred. In acute inflammation of the liver as well as of the intestines, the pulse will often become indistinct, and the countenance very anxious; the pain will be constant, and increased on pressure. As blood is drawn, the pulse rises, the anxiety of countenance and pain diminish, and the patient after the loss of from fourteen to twenty ounces feels more at ease. In all these cases of abdominal inflammation the pain is constant; it is often in- creased by paroxysms, but is never absent: there are moments of relief, but it is never complete: it is always augmented by pressure, whilst in colic, there