21 until he faints. When the warm bath is used, it should be at a temperature not less than 100°, or even as hot as the patient can bear it, and he should be kept in it until he is in the act of fainting. If the tobacco enema be had recourse to, nearly the same effect should be produced by administering repeated small doses, or no good will result from its use. When the patient is in this state of syncope, or just approaching to it, an attempt should be made to restore the protruded parts by a well directed pressure, technically termed the taxis, provided they are capable of bearing it. On this point there is a marked difference between recent and old hernise when strangulated; there is also no less difference in regard to the situation of the pain. In recent hernise which have become strangulated in young and healthy persons, inflammation soon commences in the protruded intestine and in the part which is above the stricture; and if relief is not ob- tained, the intestine below mortifies, or ulceration takes place, or would take place if time were given, immediately at or directly above the part pressed on by the edge of the transversalis or stricture. The patient therefore in a recent hernia dies of acute inflammation followed by mortification, rather than of con- gestion followed by low inflammation and perhaps, although not always, by mortification; which is the state of parts to be found usually in old hernise which have become strangulated. The symptoms correspond with the appearances found after death. In recent hernise when strangulated, there is pain in two distinct places : at the umbilicus and extending from it to the pit of the stomach, and in the herniary tumour; and both may be equally acute to the touch as well as to the sense of the patient. In old hernise the pain is felt at first, and often for a long time, at the umbilicus alone; the swelling shows little sign of derangement, and admits of considerable pressure being made upon it for several hours and even days after the incarceration and supposed strangulation are complete. It is a peculiarity in inflammation of the intestines, that the pain is referred to the umbilicus, whatever part of the intestines maybe inflamed ; be it the jejunum or the rectum, the fact is the same ; and the acute pain there, and in the tumour in recent hernise, only marks the higher degree of inflammation. I have twice seen patients in whom bougies have been forced through the upper part of the rectum: I have seen an ulcer eat its way from the rectum into the cavity of the abdomen, allowing the contents of the gut to escape : and in all these the principal and essential pain was felt at the umbilicus and upwards to the pit