19 pillar of the external ring to the other, thereby closing the part, and is called, with great propriety, the intercolumnar fascia; the other from the superficial fascia lying under the integuments. The different coverings of an oblique in- guinal hernia enumerated from without inwards, are, therefore, the integuments, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, cremaster muscle, fascia (sometimes called also canalis,) transversalis, and the peritoneum. When an oblique inguinal hernia takes place, the opening, or what may be truly called the inner opening of the ring, is by this protrusion gradually stretched or dilated : but if this be too suddenly done, the irritation caused by it gives rise to spasmodic contrac- tion, followed by inflammation in the muscular fibres passing over it; and the hernia becomes incarcerated or strangulated. If the split or opening in the transversalis is muscular above and below, the contraction upon the protruded parts will be considerable; if the upper portion only is muscular and the lower aponeurotic, the pressure will not be so great. If the hernia is -of long standing, two great changes take place in the situation and even in the structure of the parts. The opening in the transversalis muscle becomes dilated and rounded. This change takes place principally in the supe- rior fibres of the muscle, which instead of running obliquely downwards and inwards become more curved, the convexity being upwards and inwards, and are of course brought so much nearer to the median line of the body, and to the pubes, which gives to the insertion of the muscle itself a peculiar curvature; which is rather the effect of derangement, than a natural appearance of the part. If the under edge of the opening be muscular, it will of course yield in a similar manner; and circular fibres will then be seen, which are not I believe observ- able in the part in its normal state. The fibres of the transversalis which come from above and below, and meet a little beyond the lower part of the opening, which is itself rounded to allow the spermatic cord to lie uninjured upon it even under pressure, represent rather the truncated apex of a triangle or split than a ring. As this opening is more used and increases in size, it becomes rounder, approaches nearer to the pubes, and the second change takes place, viz. the edges lose their sharpness, become less defined, harder and more tendinous; so that in very old hernige the muscle loses all power over them, and the ring or opening remains unaffected by its contraction. This view of the nature of the parts and the changes which they undergo, d 2