35 he once fell into this error. I have seen it once committed in England, the intestine being opened for the peritoneal sac; and Mr. Vincent informs me, whilst this sheet is passing through the press, that he has lately operated in a case, in which no fascia propria existed. After the sac formed by the fascia propria has been opened, the surgeon must proceed with the greatest attention; and when a second sac, or something like it, is brought into view, he must increase his caution. If he can raise this, or take a small pinch of it up with his finger and thumb, so as to satisfy himself that there is something separate from it within, he may be sure it is the peritoneal sac which presents itself, and may proceed to open it accordingly. But if he cannot do this, and the appear- ance of the part exposed leads to the belief that it may be intestine, he must not open it, but trace it upwards to Poupart’s ligament, and where the firm compression appears to be made upon it, there proceed to divide the stricture until he can satisfy himself whether the part adheres or not. If it be intestine, it will not be adherent, and on the division of the stricture will be readily drawn down or reduced. If it be sac, its adherence to Poupart’s ligament will prove its nature, when it should be opened and its contents exposed, if the division of the ligament does not admit of the perfect reduction of its contents. The manner of dividing the stricture has been, and is still, a subject of dis- cussion, some surgeons recommending that it should be done upwards and rather outwards, others directing that it should be done horizontally by a division of Gimbernat’s ligament, according to the opinions they severally entertain of the seat of stricture. It is admitted that the stricture may be situated externally or internally, by the anterior border of Poupart’s ligament, (according to my views it is formed by the fascia lata,) or by the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament; but I am not aware of any proportion ever having been stated in which they occur. In the absence of this information I am disposed to believe that it happens much more frequently anteriorly than posteriorly, and which will of course regulate the operative process. Practical surgeons know that a very slight touch of the knife is often sufficient to give the requisite relief; and the distended part yields with a sound resembling that which would be heard on dividing a piece of parchment tightly stretched between two points. The stricture thus cut, readily yields to a little pressure with the nail or point of the fore-finger, and the part becomes sufficiently dilated to allow of the return of the contents of the herniary sac into f 2