27 In every case, however, the operation is required for the relief of the patient, if it cannot be obtained by other means. In all these old and well-marked cases of the passive state of the abdominal opening, the symptoms on incarceration differ much from those that take place in recent hernise which have become strangulated. The patient is uncomfortable, the rupture is not reducible, the bowels are confined, he suffers from eructa- tions, followed by pains referred to the umbilicus and to the pit of the stomach, which become permanent, and gradually although slowly increase in intensity. The abdomen becomes sore, and the tenderness and pain are increased on pres- sure, although the rupture itself is scarcely painful, and admits of very great pressure being made upon it. These symptoms are soon accompanied by ge- neral ones ; the pulse quickens and is smaller, perhaps a little harder than usual, the skin becomes hot and dry, the tongue foul, the stomach irritable, nausea is succeeded by vomiting, the countenance assumes a yellowish unhealthy appear- ance ; and gradually deteriorating from this state, at the end of four, five or more days, the patient dies, worn out by the continuance of the constitutional irritation, but not suffering much pain in the herniary swelling. On examina- tion after death, the intestines above the detained or strictured part appear to have suffered from low inflammation, rarely proceeding to gangrene. It is this kind of case which is described in books as being caused by inflammation coming on independently of the incarcerated hernia, but Avhich I believe to be an error; and in all instances in which the symptoms do not yield to the usual means, the operation should be had recourse to, and the protruded parts returned if they will admit of its being done. The patient must die if it is not done; and if it is done without advantage, he has still had the chance of recovery, which good surgery entitles him to. I am, however, of opinion, that the operation will succeed in a great majority of cases if it be done in time, that is, before the constitution is so much affected as to be unable to recover itself after it has been done. In these cases the treatment should differ materially from that recommended in the foregoing pages on recent hernise. Bleeding to syncope will only weaken the patient and do little good. The warm bath will not be very effective, and tobacco enemata with elderly persons are sometimes dangerous. The three principal remedies in recent hernise which have become strangulated are here of e 2