15 supplies the outer. They are very distinctly shown in Plate III. fig. 1., and certain other fibres running in a less curved and more vertical direction, be- longing to the anterior or fibrous layer of the fascia transversalis, are equally well marked. These fortify this part in an especial manner, and something like the way in which the outer angle of the external ring is strengthened by fibres crossing in a similar manner. It may appear that I am laying claim to the discovery of the muscularity of the superior opening of the inguinal canal, after such a structure had been pre- viously described by Sir Astley Cooper. I had not, however, seen his Work at the time ; and it was in consequence of my mentioning my ideas to him, that he made the dissection with Mr. Owen and myself, engraved in Plate II. fig. 1, to show us his view of the subject. The opinion, that this opening is in many instances a muscular one, was I believe first advanced by myself, having always maintained that point since the year 1816, although I had not been able to give a demonstrative proof of it until the delivery of my lecture on the subject in the Theatre of the College of Surgeons. There is, however, a difference between us, as to the manner in which the muscularity is effected. Sir Astley Cooper considers it to be accomplished by what he calls the folded fibres of the transversalis, that is, the internal layer of the fibres of the muscle which turn down inside the ring to be inserted into Poupart’s ligament, according to Breschet as tendon of the transversalis going on to form the internal layer of Gimbernat’s ligament, or according to Cloquet being inserted into his anterior layer of the fascia transversalis, as a part of which he has depicted them. According to my view of the matter, the ring, opening, or split, cannot be rendered a complete muscular circle, by any muscular fibres, which merely pass over and curve round to one side for insertion; one half, or at most two thirds only of a circle can be effected by such disposition of fibres; but if an inferior portion of transversalis muscle be admitted, and in the manner I have demonstrated it, then the circle is completed, and its muscularity is established, in all cases in which such a disposition of fibres exists. If I might venture to try to reconcile these views, I would do it by saying, that the circular structure can only take place when the opening or ring is formed by a split in the muscle, or in it and its aponeurosis, and can only be shown advantageously as a circle when the part has suffered a certain degree of distention, which brings