6 the linea alba, passing in front of the rectus muscle, and into the superior part of the pubes, behind the internal pillar of the ring and the pyramidalis muscle. The spermatic cord does nothing more than slide under the inferior border of the transversalis muscle, on a level with the superior opening of the canal. “ The Fascia transversalis,” he says, (page 27.) after describing it minutely, “ is an aponeurosis, the thickness of which varies: it springs from the posterior edge of the crural arch (Poupart’s ligament), from the aponeurosis of the iliac muscle, from the external border of the rectus muscle, and is continued upwards with the cellular tissue on the internal surface of the abdominal muscles : below and towards the middle of the crural arch this aponeurosis gives rise to a mem- branous canal, commencing by a wide opening directed backwards and outwards, the internal edge of which is thicker than the outer. This canal descends around the spermatic vessels, forming their proper sheath. The fascia transversalis sup- ports the peritoneum, which is behind it, the epigastric artery passing between them. Before, it corresponds to the transversalis muscle, with the aponeurosis of which it is often so closely united that it can only be distinguished from it by the different direction of its fibres. “ Finally,” he says, (page 32.) “ the passage of the spermatic cord through the abdominal parietes does not take place through a simple ring, but through a truly oblique canal. This is the Inguinal canal. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is reflected, as I have already said, backwards, and then upwards to give origin to the fascia transversalis. By thus passing backwards and then upwards it forms a straight but deep groove, the convexity of which is turned downwards towards the crural canal, and rests partly on the psoas and iliacus muscles, the concavity being of course turned upwards, and corresponding to the inguinal canal. This groove (gouttiere) extends from the pubes to the supe- rior and anterior spine of the ilium, and gives attachment in nearly all its length to the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; and, moreover, contains, in a part of its extent, the spermatic cord in man, and the round liga- ment of the uterus in the female. Its anterior wall is thick, and formed by the tendon of the external oblique muscle, having, posterior to it, the internal oblique; at the inner and under part, near the pubes, is the inguinal ring (the lower opening of the inguinal canal). The posterior wall of the canal is formed by the reflected portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique (viz. the fascia transversalis),