12 well marked, and the hole thus made by the finger is usually so large, and its outer edge so weak, as to occasion little fear of any great constriction being made by it on any portion of the contents of the abdomen which may be pro- truded through it. It is therefore not the part which constitutes the stricture at what is called the inner ring. When the peritoneum is carefully removed from the inside of the wall of the abdomen, by tearing through the cellular membrane which attaches the one to the other ; the fibrous or anterior layer of fascia transversalis is not the part next brought into view, but a distinct layer of cellular structure resembling fascia, although oftentimes loaded with fat, which can be readily dissected olf in a com- plete sheet, carrying with it the epigastric vessels which adhere rather to it than to the fibrous texture in front. This cellular layer I take to be the same thing as the posterior layer of Cloquet; but whether it is or not, it passes behind the rectus to meet its fellow from the opposite side, covers the iliac vessels below and passes under Poupart’s ligament, forming their cellular and adipose sheath and the septum which passes between them. When this cellular layer is turned down, (as in Plate III. fig. 1.) the fibrous fascia transversalis is brought into view. If an attempt is made to turn the latter down from the transversalis muscle tw^o inches above Poupart’s ligament, it is often found to adhere very firmly to it, and to its aponeurosis. When muscular at this part, many of the fibres seem to be implanted on it, although both muscle and aponeurosis are sometimes wanting, in which case only can the spermatic cord lie upon the fascia transversalis. When the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are complete and well marked, and they and the fascia transversalis are traced inwards to the rectus muscle, the two tendons are seen to pass in front of it very distinctly; the fibrous layer of the fascia transversalis on the contrary divides, the anterior and thickest part is attached to the anterior edge of the rectus ; the other, which is very thin, passes behind the rectus to meet its fellow from the opposite side ; but at the lower part close to the pubes, a portion of the fascia transversalis becomes very strong, and resembles, more than any thing else, a round white tendon going to be inserted into the pubes near its symphysis, and behind the rectus. The interspace formed by the recedence of the two insertions is very distinct, the rectus filling it up. The fascia transversalis passing externally from this sort of tendinous insertion, is attached to the inside of Gimbernat’s