18 want of an opening in the transversalis or internal oblique muscles, but for some reason which has not yet been sufficiently explained, as the person commonly suffers from a hernial protrusion, the consequence of the part being less defended than usual by the natural structures. The anatomy of the inguinal canal from without inwards is as follows. The tendon or aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle being turned down upon the thigh, the spermatic cord is seen lying in the inguinal canal, embraced by the cremaster muscle, which passes down upon it. The lower edge of the internal oblique separating from the cremaster which is a part of it, passes on to form its share of the sheath of the rectus. The cremaster being cut across and turned upwards, the spermatic cord is seen passing from under the fleshy edge or through the split of the transversalis muscle, and having beneath it another fleshy or aponeurotic portion of the same muscle descending to be inserted into Poupart’s ligament. It is on this part that the cord lies, and it forms of course the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, having behind it more or less closely attached the fascia transversalis. If the internal layer of fibres of the transversalis curve downwards to be inserted into Poupart’s ligament after passing over the cord, this part lies more decidedly upon them, and not on the fascia transversalis. See Plate III. fig. 1. When, according to this view of the anatomy, an oblique hernia, or one of indirect descent, takes place, the peritoneum is protruded against and carries before it the thin portion of the fascia transversalis, which is nearly opposite to the open- ing in the transversalis muscle, through which the spermatic cord passes. The bend or elbow, which the cord makes in ascending to pass over the superior edge of the lower or aponeurotic part of this muscle, or the fascia attached to it, opposes an insuperable obstacle to a protrusion at this part, and the hernia necessarily passes above the cord and between it and the lower or fleshy edge of the superior part of the transversalis. The peritoneum covered by the thin part of the fascia transversalis having passed through the opening in the transversalis muscle, meets with the cremaster, from which it receives a covering. If the hernia is incomplete, by which is understood that it remains within the inguinal canal, it has no other covering; but if it is complete, or passes through the external ring as it is called, or the triangular opening of the external oblique muscle, it gains two additional layers ; one from the thin fascia which runs from one column or