13 ligament, of which it forms the internal layer, and is then continuous with the pelvic fascia. Passing from the upper edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, or the third insertion of the external oblique muscle, to the inner edge of Poupart’s ligament, or the second insertion of the same muscle, the fascia transversalis seems to adhere so strongly as to appear to be a reflection upwards from it, which is the view taken of it by the French anatomists: but if care be taken in making the dissection, it can with some difficulty be separated from it, and be shown to pass under the ligament to form the septum crurale, and the an- terior part of the sheath of the femoral vessels. Exterior to the femoral artery the fascia transversalis is firmly attached to Poupart’s ligament, and is con- tinuous with the iliac fascia. The transversalis muscle lies immediately upon the fascia transversalis. Its inferior edge is said to pass over the spermatic cord at the inner or superior opening of the ring, in order to form, with the internal oblique, the sheath of the rectus. This I believe to he in many instances an incorrect description. In the demonstration of these parts in the Theatre of the Royal College of Surgeons, I had the opportunity of showing (see Plate I.) the transversalis muscle advancing fleshy or muscular, until it reached the spermatic cord; a portion of it then took the usual course above and over it, whilst another por- tion passed below it, the terminating muscular fibres of which were inserted along the inner edge of Poupart’s ligament up to the pubes. The muscularity of this insertion was admitted by the various teachers of anatomy, and other com- petent judges who were present. The lower part of the abdomen was thus shown to be defended by a layer of muscular and tendinous fibres, lying upon the fibrous layer of the fascia transversalis; and the spermatic cord passed, not, as it is usually stated, under the inferior edge of the transversalis muscle, but through a split in it originally formed for the purpose of giving passage to the testis. This split or opening was rounded on its under part where the spermatic cord rested upon it, and formed a small opening essentially muscular in every direction, and much less in size than that which is described as the opening of the fascia transversalis, which adheres to the internal surface of the muscle. It is this part therefore, and not the fascia transversalis alone, which consti- tutes the inner or superior opening of the inguinal canal for all surgical purposes. The transversalis muscle does not, however, in the generality of instances, send