34 widens, so that as it increases it passes above the sheath of the vessels, above the fascia lata, and even sometimes above Poupart’s ligament. In doing this the swelling changes its shape as well as direction, and becomes an oval tumour, having its axis directed from the ilium to the pubes, and in fat elderly people so much resembles an inguinal hernia, as to have been mistaken for it. I suspect that it has been herniee of this form and shape, which have been supposed to come out immediately in front of the femoral vessels, in which situation a hernia is certainly of rare occurrence. When a hernia commences, the peritoneum pushes some loose cellular or fatty membrane before it, until it reaches the more condensed cellular structure or fascia, which covers the oval hollow or concavity of the septum crurale; this it presses against the gland contained in the hollow, and usually causes it to be removed by. absorption. The continued pressure now acts on the septum, it begins to yield, is elongated, and forms a sac, which, like the peri- toneum itself, is thickened as it descends, and increases by a regular growth; its outer surface being rough and adherent to the surrounding parts, the inner being a smooth secreting surface, moistened apparently by a serous fluid, which keeps it distinct from the peritoneal sac inclosed within it; a quantity of fat is sometimes found between them, rendering the detection of the herniary sac more difficult. This sac is usually very thin, and contains little or no fluid, in which respect it is unlike the same investment in inguinal hernia, and renders the operation on this part more difficult. From without inwards the coverings are the skin, fat, superficial fascia, absorbent glands in various states of enlarge- ment, the fascia propria, and on opening that a second sac, viz. the herniary or peritoneal one, and within this the omentum, intestine, &c. as the case may be. It was the want of knowledge of the fascia propria as a distinct or external sac that made many surgeons suppose that they had met with something extraor- dinary, when they found one sac within another. But the more accurate know- ledge we at present possess on this subject must also be modified by the fact, that it is possible for the peritoneal sac to adhere so intimately to the fascia pro- pria as to be divided with it; and then if the surgeon does not accurately dis- tinguish the next part to be intestine when it presents itself, he may open it, believing that it must be sac, and place his patient in the greatest danger. I understand that one of the most distinguished surgeons in France states, that