30 If the symptoms denoting the presence of inflammation continue after the stricture has been completely removed, the means necessary to be employed for their removal must be had recourse to as in other cases of inflammation ; for there is no axiom so much to be doubted in medicine, as that which leads to the belief that the removal of the cause will certainly lead to the subsidence of the effect. In femoral hernia, the parts through which the protrusion takes place being entirely tendinous or aponeurotic, no positive contraction can occur in them, and the symptoms of incarceration and strangulation must depend on obstruction and distention of the contents of the hernia ; these will be regulated of course very much by the extent to which the distention is carried, and the sharpness of the edges against which they press. The distinction between a recent and an old femoral hernia will not be quite so marked as between a recent and an old in- guinal hernia ; and it is usually believed that there is less prospect of returning a strangulated femoral hernia by the taxis, or without an operation, than a stran- gulated inguinal hernia. The points of anatomy on which I wish to remark with reference to femoral hernia are few; and on referring to Mr. S. Cooper’s Dictionary for the existing state of opinions on them, I find the accounts as given by Hesselbach, Lan- genbeck, &c. so prolix, and so minute as to be almost unintelligible to a person not already well acquainted with the subject. I shall therefore refrain from quoting them, and only notice those which are more commonly received, or remain a matter of doubt. Poupart’s ligament from its origin at the superior spinous process of the ilium to its insertion at the pubes is extended over a space more or less filled up ; and constitutes what is called the crural arch. From the ilium to the outside of the femoral artery, it is admitted that there is no pos- sibility of a protrusion taking place. From this part the arch begins to spring, and terminates at the insertion of the ligament into the pubes. The outer portion of the arch is occupied by the femoral artery and vein which pass underneath it inclosed in a sheath formed by the two layers of fascia transversalis described at page 13. A septum separates the artery from the vein, whilst another septum confines the vein on its inside, and separates it from the absorbents generally, and from anything there may be in that situation, constituting all that I consider to be the true sheath of the vessels. There is however a space exceeding an inch,