16 it to that form; but even in that case there are no perfectly circular fibres, each apparently circular one being of necessity formed of two parts, one from the upper, and one from the under edge of the transversalis. From the misapprehension which has taken place with reference to the infe- rior portion of the transversalis muscle, the coverings which a hernia of direct descent receives at this part has been a matter of doubt. Mr. S. Cooper gives (page 660 of his Dictionary,) the opinions upon this point of Messrs. Hesselbach, A. Cooper, Cloquet, Lawrence, and Stanley, leaving it, however, undecided whether the covering or investment is or is not formed as, he says, Sir Astley Cooper is reported to have described it in his lectures, viz. one half by the tendon of the transversalis, and the other half by the fascia transversalis. According to my version of the anatomy, it appears to me quite clear that there are two investments, one formed of the two layers of the fascia transversalis, and another external to that formed by the tendon or aponeurosis of the transversalis. The statement said to be made by Sir Astley Cooper can only be correct when there is no inferior portion of muscular fibre or of aponeurosis to the transversalis muscle, and which is sometimes wanting, although rather as an exception to the general rule, than as the general rule itself, or when the insertion of the supe- rior fibres of the transversalis is effected by a narrow tendon. In the hernia of direct descent, or the internal inguinal hernia of Hesselbach, the coverings, when enumerated from within, are, the peritoneum, fascia transversalis, tendon of the transversalis, and tendon of the internal oblique more or less conjoined, the intercolumnar fascia, the superficial fascia and integuments. As this hernia passes to the inside, and rather underneath the spermatic cord, it does not re- ceive a covering from the cremaster. The external inguinal hernia, or of ob- lique descent, lies upon or above and to the outside of the spermatic cord; the internal inguinal hernia, or of direct descent, lies to the inside of, or below and underneath the cord, constituting the principal features of diagnosis, especially in old hernice. In the latter species, or of direct descent, the internal oblique muscle may not always be inserted low enough down towards the pubes, so as to give a covering to the hernia, which then only protrudes, or carries before it the transversalis. This fact will not however be discovered in operating; for the pressure on the parts causes such a consolidation of them, that the two tendinous expansions when they exist, become so closely united as to form but