7 which ascends behind and in connexion with the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. It is pierced by the superior opening of the inguinal canal, situated more outwardly and higher up than the inferior opening, from which it is about an inch and a half distant, being the length of the inguinal canal containing the spermatic cord. Between the superior orifice of the canal and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the groove formed by the external oblique and Poupart’s ligament is filled up by the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. Between the superior and inferior orifices, the groove constitutes the inguinal canal, containing these muscles and the spermatic cord. Lastly, the groove ends within the inguinal ring, at the pubes, by a small triangular space, bounded before by the internal pillar of the ring, behind by the tendon of the rectus and pyramidalis muscles, and often by a fasciculus of radiated tendinous fibres, which ascend in diverging from the external pillar of the ring, pass behind its internal pillar, and are affixed into the lowest part of the linea alba.” P. F. Blandin, the latest French writer on this subject, says, in his Traite d’Anatomie Topographique, Paris 1826, page 330:— “ The inguinal canal, or inguinal passage, is flattened from the front back- wards, is about an inch and a half in length, is directed obliquely forwards and downwards ; it occupies the abdominal wall in that triangular interval which I have already mentioned,—an interval bounded within by the rectus muscle, below by the crural arch, above by the conjoined inferior edge of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles ; a point of the abdominal wall which would be very weak, as these two last muscles do not descend to it, if a special apo- neurosis, the fascia transversalis, was not fortunately superadded. The inguinal canal offers a middle and two extremities or openings ; the middle part has four walls ; of the two openings, one is superior, the other inferior. “ 1st. The anterior wall of this passage is formed by the aponeurosis of the great oblique muscle, covered by the fascia superficialis, the external vessels, and by the skin. “ 2nd. The posterior wall is formed by the fascia transversalis, lined poste- riorly by the peritoneum, and having behind it the epigastric artery. ‘ ‘ 3rd. The inferior wall is formed by the hollow of reflection upwards from Poupart’s ligament of the fascia transversalis. “ 4th. The superior wall, less strongly marked, is traced by the lower edge