257 THE ICE CHEST. not keep sweet for even a few hours in the hot season. All this waste is at an end if there is ice about, as it will keep perishable food cool and pleasant and ready for a second meal. Many odds and ends of vegetables, fish, and meat can be turned into a dainty salad with the ice chest which must have been thrown away without it. Thus the expense, not only of the ice, hut also of the chest, is soon saved, to say nothing of the pleasure and enjoyment of the said salad, which one would so infinitely rather have had than the chops and steaks so universally served. Delicious little breakfast dishes can he concocted over night from the remains of fish and meat served at tea and put down into the ice all night. These are cooked in a few minutes in the morning, and form such a pleasant change to the stand- ing dish of eggs and bacon ; and how proud a good house- keeper will feel when her little dishes are enjoyed, and she knows that they have cost nothing!—for the food would not have kept, and must therefore have been thrown away if she had not possessed an ice chest. This is only one in- stance of what may he accomplished, but in the daily routine of work many more will he found. Think, for a moment, of the state of the butter without ice on a hot day. Who does not dread the sight of the liquid or greasy fat usually seen in the butter-dish, and what a remote chance there is of enjoying a slice of bread and butter with bread as hard and dry as a brickbat, and butter running to oil ? Put both into a refrigerator and note the difference. Look at it, also, from the hygienic standpoint. Most people, save the very strong and robust, lose their appetite during the hot season, and therefore feel languid and weak. Give them dry bread and liquid butter, and they can’t touch a morsel; but with fresh bread, hard butter, and some dainty tit-hit, kept in the ice also, placed before them, a good meal is often enjoyed. Again, in cases of illness ice becomes S. 1003. " R