THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. 156 And lastly, if we require further evidence in support of the necessity for ostreiculture, we have only to turn to America. A falling off in the supply led to an inquiry into the cause by the United States Fish Commission. Professor Goode, in his review of the work accomplished by this body, writes, inter alia :—“ The important distinction between the “ extermination of a species and the destruction of a fishery “ should be noted. In the case of fixed animals like the “ sponge, the mussel, and the oyster, the colonies or beds may “ be practically exterminated, exactly as a forest may be cut “ down. The preservation of the oyster beds is a matter of “ vital importance to the United States, for oyster fishing “ unsupported by oyster culture will, within a short period, “ destroy the employment of tens of thousands, and the “ cheap and favourite food of tens of millions.” “ Something,” the professor proceeds to say, “ may be “ effected by laws which allow each oyster bed to rest for a “ period of years after each season of fishing upon it. It is “ the general belief, however, that shell-fish beds must be “ cultivated as carefully as garden beds, and that this can “ only be done by leasing them to individuals. It is probable “ that the present unregulated methods will prevail until the “ dredging of the natural beds ceases to be remunerative, and “ that the oyster industry will then be transferred from the “ improvident fisherman to the care-taking oyster-culturists.” We are thus led to the inevitable conclusion that if our Australian oyster fisheries are to be re-created, it will be necessary to follow in the same lines. With that object in view, therefore, it will be needful to devise suitable legislative enactments to protect our oyster fisheries and to foster ostreiculture at the same time. We must benefit, in short, by the experience derived from other parts of the world where ostreiculture has been carried to a state of absolute perfection.