190 THE ABT OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. was given as “Beisling” in the London Exhibition of 1886, gave a writer in the Saturday Review the opportunity of a tirade against Australian wine-makers. The Pinot (pronounced Peen'-o) Noir or Noirier will serve excellently to demonstrate the significance of the word “ cepage.” This is the dominating grape of the best vineyards of Burgundy, and enters into the composition of many famous wines, such as Bomanee-Conti Cham- bertin, Corton, &c.; just as the Carbenet Sauvignon belongs to the renowned clarets of Bordeaux, Chateau Margaux, Chateau Lafitte, and Chateau Latour. This black Burgundy does well in our cooler regions, and is usually pruned short, although it gives far better results with long pruning. Shiraz (pronounced Shir-az') is another red variety which is exten- sively cultivated in Australia. It is the grape from which the cele- brated Hermitage red wine of France is made, and was first planted by a monk, who brought the cuttings from Shiraz, in Persia. It is one of our most reliable red varieties, and prospers best in a moderate tempe- rature. But the white varieties will perhaps afford us a better idea of the expression “ cepage,” for three different varieties may be adduced, whose characteristics are well known. First of all there is Biesling (pronounced Bees'-ling, but too often, as I have just mentioned, erro- neously spelt Beisling), whose prototype is that delicate Biesling of the Bhine, from which those famous wines of the Bheingau, namely Steinberg, Marcobrunner, Johannisberg, as well as Hock, are made. It is probably the best of our white wines, and does well in the cooler districts. But it should be borne in mind that long prun- ing is indispensable for it, as it gives very poor crops when pruned short. Then we have Tokay (pronounced Tok'-ay), so nearly corresponding to the Furmint, which is the chief grape grown in the well-known Tokay vineyards of Hungary. It yields a most excellent wine, and does well in the same regions as the preceding. And lastly, Yerdeilho (pronounced Ver-dell'-o) deserves to be re- ferred to amongst the white wines. It is the principal white variety grown in Madeira, and Madeira is a wine that is especially held in repute. It is better suited for the warm districts, and requires to be completely ripe before vintage. It was a most fortunate thing for Australia, therefore, that her pioneers in viticulture were men like James Busby, who