THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. 202 whether they require short or long pruning. It also helps to a better understanding of the two main styles of training the vine already mentioned, namely, the “ gooseberry bush ” and the “ trellising.” The fact that this elaboration of the sap in long-pruned vines requires a long distance to intervene between the roots and the fruit itself, is one of considerable importance. It is necessary to remember, however, that cultivation of this kind requires additional labour. Moreover, one of the principal reasons why the short-pruned vine has become such a favourite in Australia is that it is a labour-saving vine, and therefore its adoption is almost a necessity. But, as Mr. Sutherland remarks, “ there is no doubt that Aus- “ tralia can never hope to produce in any quantity the finest “ qualities of wine until the vignerons attend more to those “ practices which depend essentially upon the fundamental “ fact that the sap flows with different habits through “ different varieties of vines; and, therefore, that some “ vines require short pruning, while it is even more im- “ portant to remember that others will only yield satis- “ factorily under a system of long pruning.” In a paper on viticulture, at Mildura, which was drawn up for the Royal Commission on Vegetable Products in 1890, Mr. Frangois de Castella, a former Expert to the Board of Viticulture, Victoria, has condensed so much knowledge within a small compass that I have quoted the following :— “ Most of the settlers I met told me that they intended to prune their vines short. Now, in my opinion, they could not make a greater mis- take—for wine-growing, at least; as for raisin-growing, I have never taken any interest in the subject, and, having no experience, do not wish to express an opinion on it. I must say that all the settlers I had occasion to speak to were raisin-growers, but I should warn any future wine-grower at Mildura, who may chance to read these few notes, to beware of short pruning.