SALADS, $c. 163 philosophic frame of mind belongs to him who, as he pro- ceeds onwards through life’s journey, gets a rational enjoy- ment out of his existence, so that his days pass pleasantly and his health receives the consideration it deserves. It will appear somewhat mundane in this connection to assert that the latter and, therefore, happiness are to a great extent dependent upon the mode of living, but nevertheless it is absolutely true, and thus it is that I come back to the quota- tion at the beginning of this chapter—“ A salad is a delicacy “ which the poorest of us ought always to command.” You will remember that the Due de la Rochefoucauld, in those marvellous essays and maxims of his, says that not- withstanding the disparity of men’s fortunes happiness is equally distributed. He was doubtless right, more especially as he looked at the matter from a Frenchman’s point of view, for it must be remembered that to the great body of people in that country life is more pleasant than to the rest of humanity. Indeed, on this point Mr. Sept. Berdmore declares that in France dishes are cooked by the humblest which would be appreciated if they appeared on the menu of the best club in London, and he avows, moreover, it possesses the greatest national school of cookery that has ever existed. But, on the contrary, as far as Australia is concerned, the state of affairs in the culinary art with the bulk of the people is simply deplorable, and it seems well nigh hopeless for any improvement to be brought about. There is, however, one little ray of light at the end of this dark tunnel we are in, and it is the knowledge that the cookery classes in the public schools will by-and-by bring about important changes, result- ing in the amelioration of the whole of the culinary habits at present, curiously, supposed to exist. And it is gratifying to know that the admirable cookery classes at the Technical College, under the able guidance of Mrs. Wicken, are making the most excellent progress and producing brilliant results.