124 THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. another which is hardly less important. I refer to the crude cookery which is bestowed on the ordinary vegetables at present in daily use. That there is any monotony in an endless recurrence of boiled potatoes, boiled cabbage, boiled this and boiled that, never seems to occur to the vast majority of people in this country, who seem incapable of understanding that these different vegetables are worthy of being served in an infinite number of ways. It will doubt- less shock those who cling to this belief, but the following remarks by Dr. Mitchell, an English physician practising in Paris, directed against his own countrymen be it under- stood, are forcible enough :—“ The plain boiled potato,” says he, “ whatever else it may be, is clearly a cattle food ; “ so for the matter of that are cabbages, carrots, turnips, “ beans, peas, and almost every other vegetable when plain “ boiled. None of them in that condition would be “ refused by a cow in fair appetite.” Now, there are so many appetising ways of preparing vegetables for table, and at no additional expense, that it is lamentable to find people offering no protest against this feeble exhibition of culinary skill. Why, if there be nothing in the preparation of vege- tables for the table beyond plain boiling, it must be acknow- ledged that Cookery has made mighty little progress since the time it first came into existence. Having seen, then, what faults exist and what improve- ments might be made, it may well be asked how these latter are to be brought about, or, rather, how can Australians be induced to live in accordance with climatic requirements ? The answer is by no means easy. It may be said, in truth, that till the great mass of the people recognise their food faults, reform will not be of a national character. As I have already said, the acceptation of that valuable and nutritious vegetable fruit, the tomato, took years to accom- plish. In the same way, I fear, a universal recognition that