106 THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. tains to food and cookery ; I refer to Sir Henry Thompson, the eminent London surgeon. His work on Food and Feeding has already run through six editions, and one can only hope that he will long be enabled to benefit his race by a succession of issues. He has written other volumes on the same subject, and further, by his contributions to The Nineteenth Century and The Lancet, he has materially raised the status of the culinary art. And there are also quite a number of works on diet, and on food, written by well- known authorities in the medical world, so that the science of dietetics must eventually attain an unassailable position. The preceding naturally leads up to the main point, namely, the controlling influence which cookery exercises over health. Now if I were asked to name the one single cause which produces more indigestion than anything else, I should unhesitatingly answer, bad Cookery. Many people run away with the idea that good Cookery is necessarily elaborate Cookery, and that in consequence it is quite beyond the ordinary purse. Such is not, by any means, the case, and as a matter of fact good Cookery aims at getting the best possible results at the least possible cost. Herein lies the excellence of French Cookery, and as I have occasion to remark elsewhere, the bulk of the population in that country live infinitely better than does the average Briton. Indigestion, then, is the great primary result of bad cookery. But, on the other hand, let us hear what Dr. Lauder Brunton has to say on the score of food when pro- perly prepared. “ Savoury food,” says he, “ causes the diges- “ tive juices to be freely secreted; well cooked and palatable “ food is therefore more digestible than unpalatable, and “ if the food lacks savour, a desire naturally arises to supply “ it by condiments, not always well selected or wholesome.” But important as good Cookery, in itself, may be in its in- fluence upon health, there is still another essential, which must