THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. 204 of reason, and were to try a few inexpensive experiments, he would soon find out his mistake, and confer a boon on himself as well as on his neighbour, not to speak of the consumers of his wine. “ Even in the cooler districts of Victoria, such as the Yarra Valley, I do not know of any variety of vine which is weakened by long prun- ing, even in a series of years; while certain varieties are so influenced by short pruning as to bear no fruit at all. If this be the case on the Yarra, how much more must it be so on the Murray ? ” Mr. de Castella then referred to some other matters con- nected with the practices followed at Mildura, and concluded with these encouraging words :— “ I contend that no other culture will give such magnificent returns, do so much good to a country, or have greater attractions for the happy proprietor of the vineyard, as there is no branch of agriculture which presents such a vast field for experimental research, or which is so extensively benefited by the practical application of scientific laws and principles, as viticulture.” THE MAKING OF THE WINE—THE CELLAR. Up till this time our whole attention has been taken up with everything that has to do with the production of the grape. But Avith the gatheriug of the crop a complete change has taken place, for nature no longer exercises such a controlling influence. At this stage the art of wine- making really begins, and the climate, the soil, and all the other factors that have so much to do with the growth of the grape assist us no longer. From the moment that the grapes are gathered till the wine is ready for bottling is a most eventful period ; for, during this important time, under proper treatment, Avine may be made to reach per- fection. Indeed, it is only by paying the most minute attention to all the details connected with the making of wine that Australian vignerons will succeed in placing our Avines before all others ; because it is A7ery important to remember