31 ABLUTION—THE SKIN AND THE BATH. resisting disease. If in addition a little cold water is habitu- ally sniffed up the nostrils at the time of taking the bath it will save many a cold in the head. After coming out of the bath the towels should always be used to thoroughly dry the body, and it is certainly better to have two for the purpose. The two towels should be sufficiently large in size, at least five feet in length and of ample width ; anything smaller is altogether useless. One of them should be of some soft absorbing material so as to thoroughly dry the body, while the other should be rougher, to use with friction to the skin. In fact, this rubbing down with the rougher towel is in some respects the most important part of the bath, and there should always be enough friction to get the skin into a glow. If there is not this feeling of reaction, but a decided chilli- ness, it is a sure sign that the bath is not agreeing, and one with tepid water must be substituted, or else it will have to be stopped altogether for a time. But although there may be a certain proportion of people whom the cold bath does not benefit, yet I am fully con- vinced that the number is comparatively speaking small. A good many make the excuse that they cannot take it, while all the time laziness is the real trouble. Once the advan- tages derived from the cold bath are experienced, all the ob- jections raised vanish into thin air. Not only is there that feeling of exhilaration which abides with those who habitu- ally employ it, but it is to be remembered that its greatest value consists in the immunity which it confers against diseases of the catarrhal type. The effect of the cold bath is to give tone to the whole system, and to brace up the body. But it does more than this ; by maintaining the functional activity of the skin, the liability to catch cold is greatly lessened. There are many explanations given of the phenonema which occur in “ taking cold.” They are be- lieved, however, to arise from a disturbance of the heat-