THE ART OF LIVING IN AUSTRALIA. 62 With regard to fruit when eaten in its raw state, the question of ripeness is a most important one, and is al- ways to be considered; so that whatever views may be entertained as to the dietetic value of ripe fruit, there is a consensus of opinion on the fact that when unripe it is most injurious. Care must be taken, therefore, to see that it is perfectly ripe, and no considerations of economy must be allowed to over-ride the fact. At the same time, though ripeness is a necessary qualification of wholesomeness, yet fruit must not be over-ripe, as changes occur which render it undesirable for the system, and thus in avoiding Scylla we may fall into Charybdis. The skin of fruit should never be eaten, nor should the stones, pips, or seeds be swallowed, as there is a danger of their accumulating in a small pouch of the bowel known as the vermiform appendix. Their lodgment in this little pocket is a constant source of peril, and would soon set up an inflammation, which must always be attended with a considerable amount of danger. As to the question of the unripeness or over-ripeness of fruit, the following remarks by Dr. F. W. Pavy, an ac- knowledged authority on all that relates to food, are worth recording : — “ Fruit forms an agreeable and refreshing “ kind of food, and, eaten in moderate quantity, exerts a “ favourable influence as an article of diet. It is chiefly of “ service for the carbo-hydrates, vegetable acids, and alkaline 44 salts it contains. It enjoys, too, in a high degree, the 44 power of counteracting the unhealthy state found to be “ induced by too close a restriction to dried and salted pro- 44 visions. Whilst advantageous when consumed in moderate 44 quantity, fruit, on the other hand, proves injurious if eaten 44 in excess. Of a highly succulent nature, and containing 44 free acids and principles liable to undergo change, it is 44 apt, when ingested out of due proportion to other food, to 44 act as a disturbing element, and excite derangement of the