THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 535 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-'Working— continued. 255deg.) is tested by dipping tlie sugar on the pipe-stem into a jug of cold water; when you withdraw it the Sugar should work up like putty. The crack (310deg. to 315deg.) is the most important degree, as it is much more generally wanted. When the pipe-stem is withdrawn from the Sugar, as in testing for the ball, the Sugar should harden readily, and snap off when bitten by the teeth. The next degree is called caramel, and means that the Sugar is on the point of burning (see Caramel). Fig. 698. Machine for Drops, Lozenges, and Balls (E. Skuse). Before proceeding further some reference is necessary to what confectioners call “ cutting the grain ” of Sugar, and this is well described by Mr. Skuse : “Refined Sugars, whether lump or crystallised, when boiled to any degree above the ball, or 250deg. by the thermometer, are graining, and would, if turned out of the pan, become a solid lump of hard candied Sugar. To prevent this the grain must be cut by the addition of cream of tartar, which, in its action, will cause the Sugar to be pliable while hot, and transparent when cold; therefore it is necessary to use cream of tartar with all Sugars intended for drops, rocks, toffies, and clear goods.” Some Sugar- workers prefer to use crystallised acetic, or citric acid, but Skuse says: “Experience has taught me that cream . Fig. b‘99. Pulling Sugar. of tartar is the best, safest, and most to be relied on.” The quantity of cream of tartar to be used varies from 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls for a 71b. boil. Sugar can be grained by boiling to the ball degree, then, without adding cream of tartar or other acid, work- ing with the spatula against the side of the boiler until the Sugar becomes opaque. This sometimes takes consider- Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. able perseverance to bring to a satisfactory state of grain —a condition required for certain kinds of candied sweet- meats. With the foregoing knowledge of Sugar-boiling the confectioner should be quite prepared to commence manufacturing, and here his personal ingenuity must serve him in good stead. The following receipts should be of some service as a guide to the production of many others. Several receipts are given under special head- ings, such as Barley Sugar, Caraway Comfits, Toffy, &c. Rock is made by pouring the Sugar into flat, rectangular, round, or oval tins. Drops, Balls, and Lozenges can be made by passing the cooling Sugar through a machine with cutting-rollers (see Big. 698), or by pulling it into long rods over a hook (see Fig. 699), and then cutting pieces off with scissors in such a manner that the edges formed cross or lie horizontal as in cushions. By means of the scissors numerous shapes can be cut, such as squares, triangles, wedges, &c. Acid Drops.—Put 31b. of loaf Sugar in a Sugar-boiler with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil them to the crack. When the pan is removed from the fire, stir in a few drops of essence of lemon, pour the Sugar on to an oiled marble slab, sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of powdered tartaric acid, and work it well in. Put it on an oiled tin sheet to keep warm ; take a small quantity at a time, roll it out to the shape of a pipe-stem, cut it into small pieces with a pair of scissors, roll them round in the hands, or the paste may be passed through a drop machine; dust over with line Sugar, and put them away in boxes or tins. American Candy.—Pour 1 pint of water and )- pint of vinegar over 61b. of Sugar, and leave it till quite dissolved. Put the Sugar-pan over the fire, and let the contents boil fast till thick enough to pull into ropes; mix in then ^lb. of butter and boil hard for two minutes. Stir in 1 tea- spoonful of dry soda, and take the candy from the fire. Let it stand till the effervescence ceases, and then stir in a flavouring of vanilla. Turn it on to greased dishes, and with the tips of the fingers pull it till it is white. Boston Chips.—Boil the required quantity of Sugar to the crack, flavouring and colouring as required; turn it on to a greased marble slab, and let it cool. Turn in the edges, and with a hook fastened in the wall, pull the mass until it is quite light in appearance. Run it through a machine set close so that it comes out as thin as a wafer. Cut it into fancy shapes, wind them round an oiled stick, and let them get cold before packing in boxes. Brandy Balls.—Put 71b. of loaf Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler with -Joz. of cream of tartar and boil to the crack degree. Turn the whole out on to a warmed oiled slab or board, cut off a portion, and pull it over a hook until perfectly white. Divide this into smaller pieces, pull them into strips, lay them over the remainder of the Sugar into which a little essence of lemon and tartaric acid have been well worked, mix thoroughly, run the mixture through a drop machine, or form it into strips or rods, and cut them into shapes ; roll them round, let them get cold, and they are then ready. Bull’s Eyes.—Put 7lb. of moist Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack, remove the boiler from the fire, stir in slowly sufficient oil of peppermint to flavour, and pour the whole out on to an oiled slab. Cut off a piece from the mass, pull it over a hook fastened in the wall until it becomes a light brown, pull it into lengths about |in. in thickness, lay them on the remainder of the Sugar, then fold the whole over and commence working it, slightly rolling it, and bringing the two ends together each time. Run it through a ball-machine or form it into ball shapes, and when quite cold bottle or pack away in tins. The slab must be kept warm during the operation of working, and should a slab not be at hand the Sugar mass may be turned out on to a board, when it will keep warm for a long time without additional heat.