456 THE EE C YC LOP JED I A OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fco., referred to, see under their special headb. Slicers—continued. For slicing meat, such as ham, a long thin-bladed knife is used (see Fig. 584); for slicing cucumber with precision a three-bladed knife has been invented (see Fig. 585), but this is m a measure superseded by the very clever vege- FlG. 585. CUCUMBER-SL1CER. table-slicer (see Fig. 586) that is supplied to cooks by Mr. Marshall. A round plate fitted with four adjustable knives revolves by the turning of the handle. The vegetable to be sliced is laid in a groove along the shaft or axle, and Fig. 586. Vegetable-slicer. pressed against the plate, which takes off four slices of equal thickness at one revolution. Bread-slicers (see Figs. 587 and 588) are occasionally of great use where large quantities of bread have to be cut Fig. 587. Bread-cutter (Adams and Son). up either for spreading with butter, sandwiches, or what not. The illustrations supplied are of two of the best bread- slicers invented. Other Slicers for various purposes have been invented, but do not require any special notice here. SLIPCOAT CHEESE.—A variety of white cheese, something resembling butter in consistency. See Cheese. SLOES.—The fruit of the Blackthorn (Primus spinosa), whose white blossoms enliven our hedges in March and April. The leaves are said to be sometimes used for adulterating tea. The little dark purple Sloes, so sour and rough in taste, render a good account of themselves in a liqueur called Sloe-gin, which is made as follows: Sloes—continued. Put 3 pints of Sloes into lgall. jar with |oz. of chopped or pounded bitter almonds, l|lb. of loaf sugar, and pour in lgall. of gin. Shake the jar every three days for three months, strain off the liquor, bottle, and seal the corks; the gin is then ready for use or may be kept for several years, improving all the time it is kept in bottles. Sugar candy in equal quantity may be used for the loaf sugar if preferred. SLOUK.—See ALGiE. SMELTS (Fr. Eperlans; Ger. Stinte).—These very delicate-looking silvery fish (Osmerus eperlans) have a very elegant and almost spiritual appearance, being semi- transparent in structure and covered with beautiful scales. There are several kinds of Smelts, all possessing, how- ever, the distinctive smell and taste of cucumbers,, some say of violets. The smaller kinds (Dutch) are considered the best. The Smelts caught in the St. George’s Channel are large, but not so finely flavoured as those caught along the eastern coast of Great Britain. A distinct variety (see Atherine) are caught along the south coast. Smelts are in season from October til May, and on account of their delicate nature are sent to market packed in small shallow baskets (see Fig. 589). They are sure to be appreciated cooked according to any of the following receipts : Attelettes of Smelts.—(1) Clean the Smelts, dredge flour over them, and put them on silver skewers, about ten on each skewer; lay the fish on a greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire for about ten minutes, turning them when browned on one side. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish ; beat some pepper, salt, and lemon-juice with a little warmed butter, pour it over the Smelts, and serve at once. (2) When the fish are clean and fresh they .may be wiped with a wet towel (for some epicures think that their delicate flavour is injured by washing them), and then dried upon a clean one. The frying-kettle, partly filled with fat, should be heating, and a dish of beaten eggs and another of fine breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ready near the fire. First dip the Smelts in milk, 4hen lay them in the crumbs, covering every part of them; from the crumbs remove them to the beaten egg, immers- ing them entirely, and then again lay them in the crumbs. While they are still in the crumbs, run a Sharp thin plated or silver skewer through the eyes or gills of four