TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 505 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauas, .kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sponge Cake—continued. lemon and vanilla or lemon only. Cut one stale Sponge Cake in slices. Butter a pudding-dish, put one layer of sliced cake at the bottom, pour some of the custard over them, then add another layer of cake, and pour in more custard, and so on alternately cake and custard till the dish is full. Cover the dish, put it in a rather hot oven, and bake for half-an hour; then take the cover off and bake it for two or three minutes longer to brown. Sponge-Cake Shape.—Soak loz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for four hours; then pour over it 1 pint of boiling water and stir till the gelatine is quite dissolved; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the strained juice of one lemon, and 11b. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture in a stewpan over the lire till quite clear, and then pour it in an earthenware pan and let it cool. Mix together in a saucepan and stir over the fire till thick lqt. of milk, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and lib. of sugar; as soon as it thickens take it from the fire without letting it boil, and let it cool. Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and whip them into the cooled gelatine. Cut some slices of stale Sponge Cake, cut them the size and shape to fit a cylinder-mould, lay them on a flat dish, and pour tea- spoonfuls of sherry over them till they are pretty well soaked. Wet the inside of the mould with cold water, put a thick layer of the gelatine at the bottom pressing it down well, then a layer of the soaked Sponge Cake, fitting it in neatly, then a layer of gelatine, pressing and smoothing it in, and so on gelatine and cake alternately. Fig. 646. Sponge-Cake Shape. Let the last layer added be soaked cake. When the gelatine is quite set, turn the shape out on a glass dish, pour some of the custard round it (see Fig. 646), and serve the rest with it in a silver cream-jug. Sponge-Cake Souffle.—(1) Butter a pudding-dish, lay twelve stale penny Sponge Cakes at the bottom of it, pour 2 glasses of sherry over them, cover the dish, and let them soak. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar; make 4 pint of milk hot, and mix it gradually with them. Set the mixture in a stewpan on the fire, and stir it till it begins to thicken ; then pour it on the soaked Sponge Cake a little at a time so that they will not rise to the top, and set the dish in the oven. When it is very hot spread over it the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar ; put it into the oven again, and bake till the meringue is firm and lightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Split into halves eight penny stale Sponge Cakes, and spread each with a layer of raspberry jam, or rasp- berry-and-currant jam may be used. Put them in a souffle-dish, and pour three wineglassfuls of sherry over them. Put the whites of six eggs in a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whip them to a stiff snow. Pile the beaten eggs over the cakes, and put them in the oven. Bake the souffle for half-an-hour, then take it out and serve it im- mediately in the same dish. Sponge-Cake Trifle.—(1) Put | tin of grated pine apple at the bottom of a glass dish, cover with ilb. of Sponge- Cake crumbs, and pour over 1 pint of calfs-foot jelly, melted and coloured a deep green with spinach-juice or Sponge Cake—continued. other colouring. Pour another pint of coloured melted calf’s- foot jelly into a soup-plate, and let it set firm. Whip 1 pint of lemon cream to a stiff froth, pile it up over the cake crumbs, cut the jelly in the plate into fancy shapes for decorating, also use candied dried fruits, and serve. (2) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked hominy into a deep basin, and pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling sweetened milk; return to the saucepan, and cook for five minutes longer. Fill six circular-bottomed tins with the mixture, forming hollows in the centres like birds’ nests, and set them away to cool. Put |lb. of Sponge-Cake crumbs at the bottom of a glass dish, pour over 1 wineglassful of lemon syrup, and let them soak ; then pour over 1 breakfast- cupful of warm cocoa jelly and set away to cool. When firm, sprinkle over with loz. of ground popcorns which will give it a snowy appearance. Place the shapes of hominy on the jelly, fill with greengage jam (without any stones), and serve. (3) Put a large, ball-shaped, stale Sponge Cake into a deep glass dish ; sprinkle round the base two small rice cakes broken up to crumbs, and prick the cake from top to bottom. Prepare 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cocoa or chocolate, stir in foz. of gelatine dissolved in milk, pour this over the cake only, and let it soak in. Cover the crumbs with jam, pour over this a cornflour blancmange, over this 2 breakfast cupfuls of well flavoured custard, fill up the holes in the cake with small coloured comfits, dust over all with crushed Indian popcorn, and serve. (4) Procure a pretty fancy-shaped Sponge Cake, make several holes in it by running a long skewer down it, and soak it well in cowslip wine. Open a tin of lemon sponge and melt it. Blanch and finely mince some pis- tachio-nuts. Whip the lemon sponge well, and spread it over the top of the cake, levelling it smoothly over with the flat blade of a knife. Arrange in a fancy design on the top of the cake the pistachio-nuts and some pome- granate-seeds, put a sprig of myrtle in the centre, place the cake on a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Take a stale Sponge Cake, cut the top off it, and scoop out the inside, leaving a crust at the bottom and sides about lin. thick. Put 1 pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire ami scald it, then stir into it three eggs beaten very light with 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Crumble the cake that was scooped from the centre of the Sponge Cake, beat it well into the hot custard, put it over the fire again, and stir till very hot; then mix in 1 teaspoonful of cornflour blended in a little cold milk, stir it over the fire for another minute, and then take it off ami let it stand till cold. Coat the inside of the cake well with crab apple or some other sweet fruit jelly or jam, and as soon as the thickened custard is cold or nearly so, flavour it to taste with vanilla, almond, or lemon essence, and pour it into it; cover the inside of the top with some of the same jam or jelly used to coat the inside, and fit it neatly on. Brash beaten white of egg all over the outside of the cake, dredge powdered white sugar thickly over it, and let it stand in a cool place till time to serve. (6) Get two large Sponge Cakes, and sloping off to a point at the top. Stand one in a tall glass dish and pour 1 pint of Madeira wine over it. Cut the other cake length- wise into quarters, level off the inside edge of each quarter so as to make them fiat, and stand them close up against the cake in the glass dish. Make a custard with l pint of milk and four eggs, sweetening it to taste with loaf sugar; let it cool, then pour it round the cakes. Make a rather thin blancmange with arrowroot and milk, sweeten it to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon; pour 2 table-spoonfuls of it while hot over the cakes, giving them the appearance of snow mountains. Grind about 3oz. of Indian popcorn; whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth with some caster sugar, colour one third of them brown, another third green, and the remainder leave white. Poach 2 table- spoonfuls of the white foam in milk, and poach the green and brown foam in sweetened water, dropping it in with a table-spoon as before; but the different colours must not be poached in the same water. Take the poached eggs out with a table-spoon, drain them well, and trim them to a