THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 670 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. in the stock, the intestines being turned outward like a reversed glove finger, and thoroughly scraped and washed. When the stock is boiled, it should be strained through a folded towel laid in a colander set over a large earthen- ware bowl until clear. All those parts of the Turtle which have been cooked and covered with wet napkins should now be placed in bowls, and covered with the strained Turtle stock; all of the stock remaining should be saved for soup. Most Turtle cooks advise leaving out the intes- tines, chiefly because they are more trouble to prepare than they are worth. Mock Turtle.—Imitation is the sincerest flattery, but there is a great deal of difference between dishes made of real Turtle and those concocted to resemble it as nearly as possible. The following may be con- sidered the best receipts known for Mock Turtle, the bulk of them being for soup: Flavouring for Mock-Turtle Soup.—Mix with 1 teacupful of basil wine, J teacupful of mushroom ketchup, and ljoz. each of shallot wine and essence of anchovies; then add 4 teaspoonful of curry powder, a small piece of thinly-pared lemon peel, and 4 drachm of citric acid. Leave the mix- ture for seven or eight days; if added to the soup at the end of that time, it will be found to possess the flavour of Turtle soup. Mock Turtle (Demie Tortue) a la Franpaise.—Take a fine fresh calf’s head with the skin on, wash it well in warm water, and when well cleared of blood boil it for two hours ; take it up then and let it cool. When quite cold, cut off in lin. square pieces the fat parts of the head which adhere to the skin, and wash them well in several waters. Put 2qts. of good beef stock slightly seasoned with salt, cayenne, truffles, and mushrooms, into the soup- pot, add five onions, five turnips, and five carrots all cut into slices, a head of celery cut small, two or three shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, three bay-leaves, half-a-dozen cloves, half-a-dozen allspice, three blades of mace, two slices of lean ham chopped small, 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of soy ; let it simmer for two hours, and then strain through a hair sieve. Put in the pieces of calf’s head, give it a boil, and pour it into the tureen together with a little strained lemon- juice and 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine or 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Serve cayenne and thin slices of lemon with it. Mock-Turtle Pie.—Prepare a rich hash with the flesh from a calf’s head cut into pieces about 3in. long and 2in. wide. Put eight calf’s feet into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover and a seasoning of powdered sweet herbs, salt, 'and pepper, simmer gently until the meat drops off the bones, and strain the liquor into a basin, rubbing through as much of the meat as possible so as to have a strong stock. Put a lining of rich paste into a pie- dish, put in the calf’s-head hash, the tongue cut into large-sized pieces, some brain cakes, and forcemeat and egg balls. Add also twenty or thirty green leaves of spinach cut up into pieces the same size as the meat, pour over sufficient of the stock to fill the dish, put a cover of paste over, and bake until done in a moderate oven. Take it out when ready, and serve with the follow- ing sauce added a few minutes before sending to table: Put a little of the stock into a saucepan, add a dozen or so bruised oysters and their liquor, the pulp of twenty prunes, a blade of mace, a flavouring of nutmeg and cloves, 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Simmer gently for about ten minutes, and it is ready for use. Mock-Turtle Soup.—(1) Peel three onions, scrape and wash two good sized carrots, peel and wash a turnip, wash and trim a head of celery, and then cut all these vegetables into slices; fry them in Jib. of butter till they are a nice pale brown. Put 2lb. of leg of veal and 21b. of leg of beef into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, fit the lid on tightly, and let it stand at the side of the fire for an hour, keeping it just warm enough to draw the gravy from the meat; then put it into a larger sauce- pan or pot, add to it the fried vegetables, a bunch Turtle—continued. of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of garlic the size of a pea, three leaves of sage, a blade of mace, four cloves, half-a-dozen peppercorns, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of white sugar, Jib. of lean ham (mild), half a calf’s head nicely prepared and with the skin left on, and 4qts. of cold water. Put this over the fire, let it boil up quickly, and skim well. The half head should be laid in the pot skin upwards. When the liquor is well skimmed, acid 1 teacupful of Marsala, and keep the soup simmering, not boiling, for two hours, taking off the scum as it rises. Take out the half head, remove the bones, and trim off any rough pieces ; return bones and trimmings to the soup, and let them simmer for four hours, continuing to remove all scum as it rises. Put the meat from the head between two dishes, laying a heavy weight on the top one to press the meat well, and leave it there till cold. Mix 5 talile-spoonfuls of Hour with Jib. of fresh butter, brown it slightly in the oven, then mix with it 1 saltspoonful of salt, nearly 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 or 2 grains of cayenne, and 1 table-spoonful' of flour of mustard ; stir this into the soup, together with 1 teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce and 1 dessert spoonful of soy. When the soup has simmered for four hours after the head has been taken out, let it boil for fifteen minutes, and then strain it through a fine sieve. Cut the meat of the head into pieces about Jin. square, put it into the strained soup, return it to the fire, add the strained juice of a lemon, simmer for twenty minutes, add 2 wineglassfuls of brown sherry, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve immediately. Serve with cayenne and cut lemons. (2) Put into a good-sized stewpan a cow-heel, Hlb. of leg of beef, loz. of lean bacon or ham, a large onion stuck with four cloves, two shallota, the red part of one carrot, a sprig of lemon-thyme, a little winter savory, a few green leaves of sweet basil, a bunch of parsley, eighteen black peppercorns, the same quantity of allspice, and 1 pint of cold water. Set it over the fire, cover it closely, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes; then take the lid off, and see that the meat does not burn. When it is nicely browned, fill up the stewpan with boiling water and let it simmer gently for two hours. Strain it, and put it again over the fire. Blend 2 or 3 table-spoon- fuls of flour smoothly and gradually with J pint of strained soup, stir it into the soup over the fire, continue stirring till it boils, and then let it simmer for ten minutes. Skim it and add to it the cow-heel, cut into pieces about fin. square, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the strained juice of a lemon, l wineglassful of sherry, 1 saltspoonful of ground black pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and let it simmer for five minutes longer. Some forcemeat balls put into the tureen with the soup improve it. It is also an im- provement to add at the same time as the cut-up cow- heel, lib. of nicely-cooked veal cutlet cut small, or boiled pickled pork cut small, or some nice double tripe about |in. thick cut into fin. squares. (3) Well wash and clean an ox-foot, split it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to more than cover it, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, two onions with the skins on to give a dark appearance to the liquor, a little celery-seed, a few slices of carrot and turnip, a few cloves and peppercorns, and sufficient salt to taste. Put the saucepan on the fire, boil for a minute or two, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents for about six hours. Take out the foot, remove all the bones, strain all the liquor into another saucepan, add the meat from the foot, sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry or any other white wine, boil up quickly for a few minutes, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve. Should imitation Turtle eggs be required in the soup, they can be made by mixing 4oz. of minced lean pork with 1 teaspoonful of sage, salt and pepper to taste, a few breadcrumbs, and one slightly-beaten egg. Form this mixture into small balls, fry them to a light brown in boiling lard, and add them to the soup a few minutes before serving. (4) Cut into slices half-a-dozen ox-palates and one calf’s foot, or else two calf’s feet and one neat’s foot; boil