612 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trays—continued. trays, supper-trays, butler’s-trays, bread-trays, knife-trays, crumb-trays, and a variety of others not so closely con- nected with the subjects of this Encyclopaedia. The most useful Tray of all is the electro-plated or silver waiter (see Fig. 816), sometimes called a salver. These ex- quisitively chased silver or electro-plated Trays are used for handing round tea or coffee (see Fig. 817), or to hold the tea-service on the table. Fig. 818. Folding Luncheon- or Supper-tray (Adams and Son). Another very useful Tray is the supper-tray (see Fig. 818), a deep wooden Tray with sides that fall down and lie flat on the table when the corner bolts are released. The Fig. 819. Butler’s-tray or Stand (Adams and Son). butler’s-tray (see Fig. 819) for service at the table is of a similar nature to the supper-tray. TREACLE.—Under the heading of Molasses is de- scribed what may be called the coarse results of sugar- refining. Treacle, or more pleasingly “ golden syrup,” with which we have to deal here, is the result of the higher class of sugar-refining—that is to say, the result of roasting highly-refined sugars, as opposed to the drainings from raw sugar, commonly known as molasses. The term is derived from the Latin theriaca, so called because of its supposed powers of healing the bites of wild animals. Treacle Beer.—(1) Put lib. each of Treacle and moist sugar into a saucepan, add loz. of bruised ginger and half that quantity of hops, pour over 3qts. of water, and boil for a few minutes. Strain the liquor into a large bowl, pour in 5qts. more of water, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of yeast. Let this remain for ten or twelve hours to work; then pour it into bottles, cork them down, and keep them in a cool place until wanted for use. (2) Put 3oz. of hops into a vessel with 4Jgalls. of water, and boil for an hour; then strain into another vessel, and add 31b. of Treacle, stirring well to prevent it sinking to the bottom. When the liquor is down to 75deg. Falir. pour it into a barrel, with a little yeast added, and let it ferment for about four days. Now bottle it, and in about two weeks’ time it will be ready for use. As this will not keep any length of time, it is not much in use. Treacle—continued. Treacle Cake.—(1) Put Jib. of flour, 2oz. of sugar, and 2oz. of lard into a basin; and with the hand rub the lard thoroughly into the flour and sugar. Put loz. of almonds into a cup, pour boiling water over them, and let them stand a few minutes; then slip them out of their skins, cut them into halves, and put them into the basin with the flour, &c. ; throw in J saltspoonful of baking-powder, and with a spoon stir all well together; then pour in lib. of Treacle, and stir again. Put the mixture into a well-greased cake-tin, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. (2) Put lib. 2oz. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger, cinnamon, and Jamaica pepper, £ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and a small quantity of black pepper, also 1 table-spoonful of caraway seeds, or a few stoned and chopped raisins. Warm 5oz. of butter, beat it well, and mix it and lib. of Treacle with the dry ingredients. Stir the whole until thoroughly incorporated. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, and stand it up on end until cold to allow of the steam escaping. Treacle Parkin.—(1) Rub 41b. of butter into 24lb. of fine oatmeal until quite smooth, then mix in 211). of Treacle and Jib. of moist sugar. Stir the mixture well, put it into some buttered tins, and bake it. If preferred, it may be shaped into small cakes, and baked thus. (2) Warm 41b. of Treacle, then dissolve in it lib. of butter; next mix in gradually 41b. of the best oatmeal, lib. of moist sugar, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of pow- dered ginger. Stir the vdiole with a knife until well mixed, but do not knead it, and add a small quantity of brandy. Turn the mixture into a tin, spreading it out to about 2in. in thickness, put it in a very slow oven, and bake. When cooked, leave the parkin in the tin until quite cold; then turn it out, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Put them into tins, and keep in a dry place for use. Treacle Pie.—(1) Roll out some puff paste to about Jin. thick, line a pie-dish with it, and mask it with Treacle. Put a flat of the paste at the bottom of the dish, cover this over with Treacle, and continue in this way until the dish is full, having a layer of paste at the top. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve very hot. (2) Butter a pie-dish, line it completely with a good crust, spread a layer of Treacle over the bottom, and strew some finely shred lemon-peel over it; cover with another layer of crust, then another of Treacle, and so on until the dish is full, making the last layer of crust, which should be moistened with a little water, and pressed to the paste at the edges of the dish. Bake the pie in a good oven, but do not colour the crust too much at the top. When cooked, take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Treacle-and-Plum Pudding.—Peel and boil separately lib. each of carrots and potatoes; when tender, drain off all the water, and mash them. Chop finely lib. of beef- suet; wash and dry lib. of currants, stone and chop |lb. of raisins, and thinly shred Jib. of candied lemon-peel. Mix all the above ingredients together, adding lib. of dried and finely-sifted flour, fib. of grated breadcrumbs, and 2oz. of chopped candied ginger. Stir in lib. of Treacle, and a sufficient quantity of milk to mix the whole together. Butter a pudding basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a floured cloth over the top, put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it rapidly for eight hours. When cooked, serve the pudding with wine sauce. Treacle Posset.—(1) Put l breakfast-cupful each of milk and water into a saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of Treacle, and boil for a few minutes. Strain it, and serve very hot. All milk may be used if desired. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is on the point of boiling, pour in 1 teacupful of Treacle, and remove the pan from the lire. Let it stand for ten or twelve minutes, strain it, and serve at once in glasses. Treacle Pudding.—(1) Put ilb. of flour into a basin, and mix in loz. of finely-shred beef-suet, 4oz. of Treacle, 1