538 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working— continued. Sugar-moulding requires more than a superficial know- ledge of Sugar-boiling, as it may be desirable to employ the Sugar when it has reached either of three degrees— ball, feather, or crack—the results varying in appearance in each case. Thus we may have clear and grained (white) mouldings, the graining usually following as a natural course when cooling upon contact with the moulds. For hollow mouldings, Sugar at this degree (ball or pearl) is indispensable. For clear moulded sweets the Sugar may be boiled to the crack, or “ hard crack ” as it is styled in the workshops. At one time Sugar flowers were made by moulding, each leaf being prepared separately, and a number of these, sufficient to make up the flower, fas- tened together with workable Sugar. The Sugar-piper is now responsible for what few flowers are required for Sugar-ornamentation. Sugar fruit may be made by pressing a shape—the real or imitation fruit—halfway deep into a bed of starch powder, filling the mould thus made, leaving the Sugar to set, then joining the two halves with Sugar, trimming the join smoothly, and colouring with harmless paint. When metal moulds are used it is customary, after filling them, as soon as the Sugar sets round the sides, to empty out the loose melted Sugar, and then make the figures hollow. This does not detract from the appearance, but lessens the prime cost of production. Before pouring the hot Sugar into the metal mould (which can be purchased of any confectionery-utensil salesmen) it is advisable to wipe the parts inside with a piece of cloth or sponge dipped in almond oil. Then stand the mould upright in a bed of Sugar or starch, so that it can be filled conveniently from a small Sugar- boiler, fitted with a lip and handle. In a few minutes after filling, the fluid Sugar in the centre may be poured out; but great care must be taken to ensure that there shall be a sufficient thickness of Sugar in the mould to prevent the probability of the figure falling to pieces when the mould is unfastened for its removal. Considerable skill may be exercised after the shapes are moulded in applying colours with a brush (see Colourings). The best mode of preparing colours for painting moulded Sugar is to mix the colouring matter with thin gum, in which case a glaze will be given that niay be advantageous; but plain water is sufficient for most purposes. When it is desirable to colour the sub- stance of the Sugar the dry colour should be first mixed up into a paste with syrup, and then stirred into the boil just before moulding. For moulding flat shapes, such as stars, leaves, rosettes, and other similar articles, a flat tray of starch powder should be prepared, and the surface carefully smoothed, as for liqueur bonbons, fondants, &c. Depressions may then be made by pressing a model moulded in plaster of Paris, or any other material, at convenient intervals, into the starch powder. The Sugar is then poured from a small boiler into these depressions (see Fig. 700), and when cold and hard the sweets may be removed one at a time by inserting Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. the point of a knife or spatula under each, and the starch powder can then be easily dusted off with a fine-haired brush. Before painting, let the Sugar get quite cold, and trim off, with the edge of a knife, any irregularities caused in the moulding. Continental confectioners practise Sugar - moulding (which they term Sugar - casting) very extensively, and provide themselves with moulds or casts of a very elabo- rate character. Sugar bird-cages were at one time fre- quently used to ornament the table, but the average Englishman is not enraptured with pieces set on for show, unless they are edible and to be eaten. The bird-cage being constructed of Sugar—barley Sugar as it was called —was eminently edible, but as plain barley Sugar costing infinitely less would be quite as delectable and the cage was costly in its manufacture, it is not surprising that bird-cages, however artistically prepared, are no longer approved for the table. The Sultane and Croquenbouche, with their luscious contents and edible decorations, have en- tirely superseded the bird-cage, and hold a high position amongst useful and ornamental table-dishes, especially in Italy, France, and Austria. The construction of these and their mode of fitting up, contents, &c., will be considered under their own heading. The moulding or casting of the Sultane is done as follows : The confectioner provides himself with a mould grooved to form a lattice or net, which may be coarse or fine meshed, and fills the grooves with Sugar boiled to the crack —31b. of Sugar, moistened with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and 1 teaspoonful of ci-eam of tartar stirred in—pouring it from a boat-shaped or pear-shaped vessel with a long lip and handle (see Fig. 701). Before the invention of these moulds, all sorts of shapes and designs were prepared by ingenious Sugar-workers, by marking out a pattern on a marble slab. Whilst some very clever work has been pro- duced in this way, it had the disadvantage of having one side flat and the other rounded—by using the grooved mould, both sides of the moulded threads are round, and the work is proportionately stronger. Supposing the mould be used, the process is very much the same as when executed on the marble slab. First wipe the mould all over the inner surface with- an oiled rag, then I partly fill the pear-shaped boiler, and commence by laying