598 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, a-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. them in a brisk oven for fifteen or twenty -minutes. When cooked, stand the Tomatoes still covered with the bacon on a hot dish, garnish them with groups of fried parsley (see Fig. 798), and serve. Scalloped Tomatoes.—(1) Scald and peei lqt. of Tomatoes, put them into a bowl, bruise them, and mix them up with 1 teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and a little onion-juice. Sprinkle the sides and bottom of a well buttered, deep hr king-dish with sifted breadcrumbs, pour in the Tomato mixture, and cover the top with 1 breakfast-cupful of cracker-or bread crumbs mixed up with 1 teacupful of warmed butter. Smooth over the top, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the surface is well browned. Take it out and serve very hot. (2) Add to the pulp of nine large Tomatoes 3 table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, lAoz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Bake for half-an hour in buttered scallop tins. (3) Rub one dozen Tomatoes through a sieve, mix with the pulp 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, Jib. of butter, and Alb. of breadcrumbs. Butter a scallop dish, pour the mixture in, and bake it in a quick oven. Spiced Tomatoes.—For 211). of ripe Tomatoes allow lib. of brown sugar, A pint of cider vinegar, and Joz. each of cloves and cinnamon. Put all these ingredients in a pan, and let them simmer slowly at the edge of the fire until the Tomatoes are cooked. When ready, take the Tomatoes out and put them on a dish, leaving the syrup to go on simmering. When the Tomatoes are quite cold, return them to the syrup and boil them gently for ten minutes longer. Afterwards put them into jars, let the syrup continue boiling until thickly reduced, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Pour the cold syrup over the Tomatoes, cover the jars with parchment, tie them down, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. Steamed Tomatoes.—Select one dozen or so large Tomatoes, cut off the stalks to within lin. of the fruit, put them into a flat-bottomed basin slightly rubbed with butter, place it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, cover the pan, and let the Tomatoes steam until they are quite soft, which will take about ten minutes. Put them carefully on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. The flavour is well preserved by this means. Stewed Tomatoes.—(1) Scald and peel the required quantity of Tomatoes, cut them in halves or quarters, put them into a lined saucepan, and stew them for a quarter-of-an- hour, when the juice will be partly boiled away. If desired the Tomatoes may be thickened with a little corn- flour moistened with cold water or with cracker- or bread- crumbs. Turn the stew out on to a dish, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put a few lumps of butter on the top, let it melt, and serve. A little sugar may also be sprinkled over if desired. (2) Put 21b. of fresh Tomatoes into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil until the skins begin to crack and curl. Drain the Tomatoes, rub them through a coarse wire sieve, return them to the saucepan with their cooking-liquor, and stew for an hour. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of crushed milk biscuits in with the Tomatoes, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir until the butter has dissolved, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (3) Plunge six good-sized, fresh Tomatoes into boiling water for half a minute; drain, peel them, cut each one into six pieces, put them into a saucepan with 1 Aoz. of butter, and season with A pinch each of salt and pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. Cook slowly for twenty minutes, and add A teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Stir well and cook for two minutes longer, then place in a hot, deep dish, and } serve. (4) Cut the Tomatoes into quarters, and scoop out the pips and watery parts ; thinly slice a moderate-sized onion, ! put it in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and shake them over the fire until cooked, but not browned. Put the quarters of Tomatoes in with the onions, season to ' Tomatoes—continued. taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire until tender. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toasts or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Sweet.—Scald and peel one dozen or so Tomatoes, put them into a baking-dish, and cover them with sugar; put the disli in a slack oven, and bake the contents until the sugar has melted and dried down to a syrup. Take tfiem out and serve. □ tewed Tomatoes with Indian Corn.—Scald, peel, and cut into pieces sufficient Tomatoes to fill 3 breakfast-cups; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and let them simmer at the side of the fire until they are reduced to two break- fast cupfuls. Put twelve tender roasting ears of corn into a saucepan of water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; then cut the corn from the cob, when there should be about 2 breakfast-cupfuls. Add them to the Tomatoes, cook slowly for two or three minutes, turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve at once. Stuffed Tomatoes.—(l) Wipe four large Tomatoes with a soft cloth, cut a small round off the top of each with a sharp knife, and scoop out as much of the inside as can be taken out without spoiling the shape of the Tomato. Mix with the scoopedout centre part of the Tomatoes about Jib. of finely-minced ham, I teaspoonful of sugar, three small onions chopped very fine, a sprig of thyme, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and a seasoning of cayenne, black peppei’j and salt. Put all these together into a small frying-pan over the fire, and stir the mixture till the liquid is somewhat reduced—about ten or fifteen minutes will be long enough. Then rub it through a hair sieve and fill the emptied Tomatoes with it. Bake them for a short time in a hot oven. Lay a bit of butter on top of the mixture in each Tomato when they are put in the oven. Serve them very hot on the dish in which they were baked. (2) Either ripe or unripe Tomatoes may be used. Cut off the tops of six, but without quite separating them, and scoop out all the seeds, taking care not to break the skin of the Tomatoes. Finely mince enough raw mutton to stuff the Tomatoes with, and mix with it a few table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, and 3oz. or 4oz. of well- washed rice; season with salt and pepper, and stir the mixture to a stiffish paste with a small quantity of water. Fill the Tomatoes with the stuffing, pressing it in tightly, then fix on their tops. Lay the Tomatoes gently in a saucepan, their tops upwards; moisten them to height with Fig. 799. Stuffed Tomatoes. clear broth, and boil them slowly at the side of the fire until the liquor has reduced to a thick consistency. Drain the Tomatoes, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish (see Fig. 799), and serve. (3) Wash and dry well six fine, sound, red Tomatoes. Cut the top of each, without detaching, so that it will serve as a cover. Scoop out the inside of each with a vegetable-scoop, and place on a plate for further use. Season the inside of the six emptied Tomatoes with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper. Chop very fine one medium sized peeled onion, place it in a saucepan with Aoz of butter, and cook for three minutes on a brisk fire, being careful not to let it get brown. Add six chopped mush- rooms and loz. of sausage-meat. Season with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, and cook for three minutes, stirring once "in a while. Add now the insides of the Tomatoes, with A breakfast-cupful of fresh breadcrumbs and 1 tea- spoonful of fresh chopped parsley. Mix well together and