504 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil6, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Spits—continued. times used, in which case they are thrust through the bird or small animal, and then tied at each end to the larger Spit (see Fig. 644); but this system of roasting is not often resorted to. A double set of holdfasts at right angles to each other will carry four small birds very nicely, or even two of the holdfast Spits working in reverse directions may be found very serviceable in some cases. SFITCHCOCK.—See Spatchcock. SPLEEN.—A gland-like organ found near the stomach of almost every animal. It is usually known as the milt, and sometimes eaten when fried or boiled. SPLIT-PEAS.—See Peas. SPONGE CAKE.—The name given to a kind of light cake that is made with eggs, sugar, and flour. Several receipts are given for its preparation under Cakes, and the following receipts for its use in forming other dishes will be found reliable: Almond Sponge Cake.—See Almonds. Sponge-Cake Fritters.—Cut a stale Sponge Cake into small rounds or fingers; put a lump of butter into a flat stew- pan, and place it over the fire. When blue smoke rises from the butter dip the pieces of cake into thick cream and drop them in the stewpan. Fry them until lightly browned, then lift them out of the fat with a strainer, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two to drain. Mask each fritter with any kind of jam liked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 645), and serve. Sponge-Cake Pudding.—(1) Soak six Sponge Cakes in new milk; beat four eggs with a pint of cream, then pour them over the cakes, and beat all well together. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add a few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon ; ornament the interior of a mould with crystallised cherries and orange chips, and pour in the mixture. Pack the mould in pounded ice, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (2) Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire; when it boils, stir in {.lb. of finely-crumbled stale Sponge Cake, and whisk it over the fire to a batter; then stir in loz. Sponge Cake—continued. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, and 2 table spoonfuls of self-raising flour blended with a little cold milk. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, and let it cool. When the pudding is almost cold, stir in {lb. of currants, well washed, dried, and dredged with flour, and a flavouring of ratafia; beat up well, then stir in the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake for half or three quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven. If served hot, send cream sauce with it; if cold, whisk very stiff { pint of cream, the whites of three eggs, 2oz. of powdered white sugar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry, and pile high over it. (3) Wash well and dry {lb. of currants ; blanch and chop {lh. of sweet almonds, and chop fine 4oz. of citron. Take a dozen small Sponge Cakes and soak them in sherry, (they will take nearly { pint). Butter a good-sized pudding- tin, line it well with currants, quite covering the inside, and put a layer of soaked cake at the bottom. Have ready a raw custard of three eggs and 3 yolks beaten up with {lb. of sugar and 1 pint of milk. Strew over the soaked cake some chopped almonds and citron, and pour in a few spoonfuls of the custard; go on adding alternately soaked cake, chopped almonds, and citron till the tin is nearly full (the pudding will swell a little), then fit on the cover and boil for an hour. If served hot, send jelly sauce with it; if cold, let it stand all night in the pudding- tin, uncovered, and turn it out next day. Pile a border of whipped cream round it, and strew the top of the pudding with powdered white sugar. (4) Cut two stale penny Sponge Cakes into small pieces or crumble them. Pare and core a large juicy cooking apple (or two moderate sized ones), and cut it into thin slices. Spread a thick layer of butter over the interior of { pint mould. Put a layer of the Sponge-Cake crumbs at the bottom, next put in a layer of the apple slices, and over that strew about { table-spoonful of sugar. Put the remainder of the apple and cake in alternate layers in the mould, with sugar over the top of each layer of apple, and making the last layer of cake. Put one or two very small bits of butter on the top, place the mould in a brisk oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream over five or six Sponge Cakes, and beat them to a smooth paste; beat the yolks of eight eggs with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar and mix them with the sponge batter; then whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly in with the other ingredients. Butter a dome-shaped mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, put it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with chocolate sauce. (6) Make some rich puff paste and line a pie-dish with it. Take four small Sponge Cakes, pour 1 wineglassful of sherry over them, and let them soak while the puff paste is being made. When the dish is lined with paste, lay the Sponge Cakes in it. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar and mix with them by degrees 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; pour this over the soaked cakes, then put the pie-dish in the oven and bake for an hour. Beat the whites of three eggs to a very stiff froth with 3 table spoonfuls of powdered white sugar. When the pudding is baked, heap this froth as lightly and ruggedly as possible over it, and put it back in the oven to set and lightly brown. Put it in a cool place till quite cold and then serve. (7) Stone some raisins, and arrange them in a pattern on the inside of a buttered mould ; then line the mould completely with Sponge Cakes, and fill it with more Sponge Cakes and ratafias. Pour in a rich custard, and let it stand for two hours, constantly adding more custard as it soaks into the cakes. Then tie a cloth over it, and steam for an hour. (8) Beat up four eggs with 2oz. of sugar, and then mix with them by degrees 1 pint of milk in which 1 table- spoonful of cornflour has been boiled and a flavouring of