636 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, A-c., referred to, see under their special heads. TUBA.—A drink made in the Philippine Islands from the sap of pine. TUCKAHOQ.—According to Lindley, this is the Americo-Indian name of a curious tuberous production, which is dug out of the ground in several parts of the United States. By some authorities it is believed to be a fungus, resembling the Truffle in its constitution and qualities ; but others believe that it is a peculiar con- dition of some root, though of what plant it has not been ascertained. It grows to several inches in diameter, and is used as a food, especially for making jellies. TUGINAR.—A famous Turkish ragout made with globe artichokes. The following is a good receipt for its preparation : Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan with lib. of chopped mutton or veal, set the pan on the fire, brown the meat a little, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and stir in two onions, finely chopped, with a few sprigs of parsley. Wash eight or nine artichokes, trim off all the ieaves, cut the bottoms into quarters, put them in the saucepan with the meat, and cook gently until they are done. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve. Any vegetables, such as cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, may be used instead of the artichoke bottoms, but these are preferred. TUMBLERS.—This name was originally given to drinking vessels in the time when our country was in possession of the Anglo-Saxons. The vessels to which this name was applied were made of earthenware, horn, wood, and at a much later date of glass, the peculiarity of them being that they had no bottoms (see Fig. 882) or stands. The object secured by this condition was to compel those drinking to empty the vessel at a draught. Since the introduction of the Venetian and other fancy glass work into this country vessels known as Tumblers have been made with flat bottoms (see Fig. 883), which renders the title exceedingly inappropriate. TUN.—A measure of wine containing two hundred and fifty-two gallons. The term is also applied to a brewer’s fermenting vat. TUNBRIDGE CAKE.—See Cakes. TUNNY (Fr. Thon ; Ger. Thunfisch).—Excepting in a state of pickle, or preserved in tins, the flesh of the Tunny is not much known in this country. It is an oceanic fish (Thynnus thynnusj of the mackerel family, inhabiting the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It grows to an immense size, sometimes weighing as much as a thousand pounds. In four months from its birth it will weigh more than two pounds, “and he would be very much more abundant than he is,” says Kettner, “ but that his mother has such an admiration for her eggs that she eats them the moment they become fertilized. Were it not for this infanticide the basin of the Mediterranean would be too small for the Tunny population.” Some- times the name is spelled Thunny. Braised Tunny served with Green Peas.—Cut off a thick slice of Tunny, lard it with fillets of bacon or anchovy, and blanch it in boiling water; take it out, drain it, wipe it. dry with a cloth, and dust it over with salt. Put a few trimmings of bacon and seasonable vegetables cut in slices at the bottom of a saucepan, place the slice of fish on the top, pour over sufficient broth and white wine in equal quantities to nearly cover it, put the saucepan on a quick fire, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. Remove the saucepan to a slack fire, cover it over, jmt hot ashes on the lid, and continue to cook until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to a glaze. Take out the fish, drain it, remove the outer skin, and put it on a dish over 1 pint of cooked green peas. Add a little broth to the liquor in the saucepan, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, skim off all the fat, boil for a few minutes, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. Broiled Tunny with Puree of Sorrel.—(1) Cut off a slice of Tunny about lin. or 1 Ain. in thickness, put it into a flat dish, pour over sufficient oil mixed with a little lemon-juice to cover it, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and place a few slices of onions on the top. Let it remain in soak for two hours, take it out, drain it, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. Put it on a dish over a puree of sorrel, ami serve very hot. (2) Put a thick slice of Tunny in a basin, cover it with olive oil in which has been mixed some lemon-juice, chopped onions, pepper, and salt, and let it macerate for two hours. Pick over some sorrel leaves, wash and dry them thoroughly, blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, keeping it well stirred, drain them, and leave till cold. Brown some butter and flour in a saucepan, pour in some clear stock that has been strained through a fine hair sieve, put in the sorrel, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till done. Drain the Tunny and broil it over a clear but slow fire. Skim the fat off the puree of sorrel, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and pile it on to a hot dish; put the slice of Tunny on this, and serve. Broiled Tunny Steak.—Cut off a slice about lin. thick from a Tunny, sprinkle it well with salt and pepper, brush it over with oil, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, and let it stand for an hour. Cover it with sifted breadcrumbs, put it in a broiler or on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it until done, turning it occasionally. Put it on a dish, and serve with remoulade sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. Dressed Pickled Tunny.—(1) Cut 5lb. or Gib. of marinaded or pickled Tunny into rather thick slices, arrange them overlapping one another round a small, deep dish, put a small pile of capers on the exposed ends of the slices, and serve with olive oil poured over. (2) Fold a napkin on a dish and dress on it the desired quantity of pickled Tunny. Decorate this with a little fresh parsley, and serve as a hors-d’oeuvre. Fried Small Fillets of Tunny.—Take off the skin from a slice of Tunny about Jin. in thickness, cut it down the centre to take out the bone, and cut it up into strips about Jin. in width. Sprinkle them over with salt, dip them singly into oil, dredge them over with flour, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take