THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 656 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ifee., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. jelly in the spaces between the pieces of Turkey, garnish with crohtons of jelly round the rice mound, and serve. Turkey Boudins.—Cut the meat off a cold cooked Turkey, chop it finely, and mix with it an equal quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in milk and the same amount of finely-chopped onions. Put the mixture into a mortar, pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the mortar, and pound it again with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, adding gradually at the same time 1 pint of cream or Jib. of warmed butter. Season the mixture to taste with powdered mace, nutmeg, and salt. Fill some skins, prepared as for sausages, with the mixture, tie up the ends, put the boudins in a saucepan of hot water, and let them simmer gently but do not boil them. When cooked, drain the boudins, and leave them till cold. When ready to serve, prick them lightly with a fork, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Take them out of the paper, and put them on a hot dish. Turkey Breasts a la Chipolata.—Singe, draw, and wipe a fine young Turkey of 61b. weight, and detach the two legs entirely. Place a few pieces of pork-skin in a saucepan, adding one cut-up carrot and onion, and a bouquet garni; lay the breasts of the Turkey over, season with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, put on the lid, and cook for about ten minutes to slightly colour. Moisten with 1 pint of broth, and put it into the oven without the lid, letting it cook for forty minutes, and basting it frequently with its own gravy. Arrange the Turkey on a hot dish, and serve with 1 pint of hot chipolata sauce poured over. The stock remaining in the pan may be used for preparing Spanish sauce. Turkey Breasts a la Espagnole.—Proceed as for Turkey Breasts a la Chipolata, but after cooking for twenty minutes only, take the Turkey off', place it in another sauce- pan, and baste it with its own gravy, adding J pint of Spanish sauce. Blanch J pint of chicken or Turkey livers, cut them into two or three pieces, according to their size, and put them into the pan with the Turkey, adding J wine- glassful of Madeira wine. Cook for twenty minutes longer, and serve with the livers placed round the breasts, and the gravy poured over. Turkey Brochettes.—Cut the meat off the breast of a raw Turkey, trim the skin and sinews off the meat, cut it into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a basin, dust some pepper and salt over them, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons, and baste them with oil. In two hours’ time, run some small skewers through the pieces of meat, wrap them in lamb’s caul, and broil them over a clear fire. When cooked, remove the caul, put the meat on a hot dish, and serve. Turkey Croquettes.—Cut the meat oft' the breast of a cold cooked Turkey, trim off the skin and fat, and cut the lean into small squares; put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of rice that has been boiled in broth till dry and of whole grain, sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, and keep it covered. Pour 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a flat stewpan, and boil it till reduced, stining and adding by degrees sufficient melted glaze to bring it to a creamy thickness. Mix 1 table-spoonful of curry powder with a small quantity of milk, stir it into the sauce, then pour the whole over the meat and rice. Stir the mixture over the fire for five minutes, then turn it into a basin and leave it till cool. When firm, divide the mixture into equal quantities with a table-spoon, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs again. Boil some lard in a frying-pan, plunge in the croquettes, and fry them till well and equally browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a dish-paper or folded table-napkin placed on a hot dish, garnish, and serve. Turkey Custard.—Wash 1J breakfast-cupfuls of the best rice, put it into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil for five minutes ; then drain off the water, and put in 3 pints of milk, Jib. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and the grated peel of two oranges; add J saltspoonful of salt, put Turkeys—continued. the saucepan over a very slow fire, and stir the contents occasionally until the rice is tender. Well wash and dry lib. of currants, and beat the yolks of six eggs. Mix the currants and yolks with the rice, and stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chantilly cream, moving the saucepan off the fire before the eggs are added. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the other ingredients. Butter a dish, line it with a good puff paste, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take the custard out of the oven, brown it lightly under a salamander, unless it is already sufficiently browned, and serve. Turkey Fricandeau.—Bone two or three drumsticks of Turkey, trim them neatly, and lard with thin strips of smoked bacon. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing to fill up the hollows left by the bones, with grated ham, champignons, and breadcrumbs, season with a small quantity of sweet herbs, grated lemon-neel, salt, and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the drumsticks, levelling the stuffing off neatly with the flat blade of a knife. Lay them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with boiling white stock, and keep them simmering slowly at the side of the fire until tender. They will take about half-an-hour to cook. Meanwhile stew some celery or sea-kale, and make 1 pint of white veloute sauce. When cooked, drain the drumsticks, and brown them under a salamander. Turn the stewed vege- tables on to a hot dish, lay the drumsticks on it, pour their cooking liquor over, first removing the bunch of herbs, pour the veloute sauce round the dish, and serve while very hot. Turkey Fricassee.—Separate the meat from the bones of the remains of some cold cooked Turkey, cut it into small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. -Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with a thin strip of lemon-peel, and boil it for five minutes. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of cornflour to a paste with a little cold milk, then stir it into the milk in the saucepan, and con- tinue to stir it over the fire for two minutes; then take out the lemon-peel, remove the sauce from the fire, and allow it to cool for a few minutes. Add Joz. of butter to the sauce, put in the cut-up meat, and stir it over the lire till hot. While the Turkey is being warmed up, fry some thin squares of bacon. Turn the Turkey on to a hot dish, arrange the bacon round, and serve. Turkey Patties.—(1) Mince the flesh of some cold cooked remains of Turkey, and season it with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient cream and butter to make it a nice consistency, and stir it over the fire till hot. Butter some small patty pans, line them with paste, fill them with the above mixture, put a paste cover on the top, and trim round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the patties in a moderate oven. When cooked, remove them from the tins, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve them. (2) Mince some of the white meat of a cooked Turkey, season it with a little salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel, and moisten it with a little cream and a small quantity of butter warmed till quite soft. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, put some of the mince into each, cover with puff paste, and bake. Turkey Pie.—Pick the meat off the remains of some cold roast Turkey, and chop it finely. Put the mince into a saucepan with a small quantity of milk, pounded mace, pepper, and salt, judging the amount by the quantity of meat; thicken it with a little flour that has been worked with butter, and stew it gently for a short time. Line a buttered dish with a good pie-crust, and when the above mixture is cold, pour it over the paste; put a paste cover on the top, moisten and press the edges together, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, the pie can be served either hot or cold. Turkey Pinions au Consomme.—Cut the large wing-bone out of the pinions, fold the skin over at the ends, put