62? THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. and the liquor in which the Truffles were soaking. Re- duce again, add the remainder of the Truffle trimmings, boil well for a couple of minutes, and strain through a fine sieve. Take out the timbale when done, turn it out on to a dish, make a slight hole at the top, pour in the hot sauce, cover over the hole, and serve. Truffles served en Buisson.—Peel and wash 61b. of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of chicken broth and clnmpagne or sauterne to moisten, add a little chicken fat or drippings, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and one small onion with two cloves stuck in it. Cover over the saucepan, boil for a-quarter- of-an-hour, remove the pan from the fire, and let the Truffles cook in the liquor. Put an oval-shaped block of fried bread in the centre of a dish over a napkin; put half a dozen of the Truffles, which should be of the same size, on an equal number of skewers, stick them into the fried bread round the edge, keeping them at equal distances apart, garnish the base of the bread with more of the Truffles, put the remainder of them in a pile in the centre of the bread, hide the bread with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Truffles au Gratin.—Well wash and wipe dry seven or eight large, round, raw black Truffles, scrape out all the inside without injuring the peel, and chop it very fine. Mix in an equal quantity of chopped, cooked fat liver, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, moisten with a little brown sauce, and stuff the halves of Truffles with the mixture. Sprinkle the surface with sifted bread- crumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, put them close together in a flat-bottomed saucepan or gratin-dish, moisten with a little wine, boil up over the fire, put the sauce- pan or dish in the oven, and bake for ten minutes with the cover on. Take out the halves of Truffles when done, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Truffles a l’ltalienne.—(1) Scrub in water until thoroughly clean eight or ten Truffles, peel them, cut them into thin slices, put them in a baking-tin, strew over them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of powdered mace, pour over them 4 table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for a little over three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, put the Truffles on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and serve. (2) Peel and wash six large Truffles, chop them up, put them into a frying-pan with a little oil and butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, add a clove of garlic, and toss them over the fire until they are quite warm. Add 4 wineglassful of Madeira, and a small quantity of melted glaze, and boil for three or four minutes; remove the pan from the fire, add a thickening of butter kneaded in Hour, and a small quantity of anchovy Fig. 840. Truffles a l’Italienne. butter, and boil up once; then take out the clove of garlic, and add 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with pieces of fried bread for garnish (see Fig. 840). Truffles ei la Serviette.—(1) Select large Truffles, and wash them in cold water. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan with the Truffles, two or three small green onions, a small carrot, a clove of garlic, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, salt and pepper to taste, a small quantity of sugar, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stock. Boil the Truffles gently at the side of the lire until they are tender, then move them away, Truffles—continued. and leave them in their liquor until cold. Warm the Truffles again in the same liquor, drain and dry them on a clean cloth, pile them high on a hot dish over which has been spread a napkin (see Fig. 841), and serve them. , rTC ■- Fig. 841. Truffles a la Serviette. (2) Procure rather large, fresh Truffles, wash them well, and put them in a saucepan with a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover them well with equal quantities of white wine and clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, drain the Truffles on a sieve, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them. (3) Wash twelve fresh Truffles, put them in a saucepan with two rashers of bacon cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of stock, season with salt and pepper, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with them, spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the Truffles on to it, and serve hot. (4) Brush the Truffles in water until quite clean, put them in a stewpan with three onions, three or four sticks of celery cut into small pieces, two bay-leaves, four cloves, a bunch of thyme and parsley, sufficient milk to cover them, and a piece of butter about 2oz., and boil them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Take them out of the stewpan, and put them on a sieve to drain. When cold, serve them in a folded napkin. (5) Well wash and clean the required quantity of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with sufficient mirepoix and Madeira wine to moisten, and boil them until done. Take them out, place them inside a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Butter should be served as an accompaniment. (6) Wash Mb. of Truffles in cold water, brushing them well to remove all the dirt, drain them, and put them into a stewpan; pour in half a bottle of champagne, season them slightly with salt, and boil them gently for about half-an-hour or until tender. W hen cooked, dry them on a clean cloth, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve with as little delay-as possible, as they should be very hot when eaten. Truffles in Cases.—Pick out some Truffles, all about tlie same size, peel them, and cook them in white wine and stock, using very little liquid. Truffles should never be cooked too Ion", as they lose their flavour when overdone. When done, leave them till cool, and then drain them. Make a pyramid shape out of cardboard or thin wood, fix it firmly on a pain-vert, and brush it over with melted glaze ; have ready some small paper-cases of the same size, one for each Truffle. Roll the Truffles in melted glaze, and put one in each case. Brush the bottoms of the cases over with melted glaze, and stick them against the pyramid, the largest ones at the base and the smaller ones at the top. Stick three transparent attelette skewers, garnished with Truffles, on the top of the pyramid. This piece, being directly dished on a stand, is generally served at ball buffets, where the guests may help themselves. Truffle-and-Celery Salad.—-Cut up some cooked Truffles into slices and then in quarters, mix them up with the hearts of a few roots of celery, also cut up into pieces about fin. in length, put them into a salad-bowl, pour over a dressing composed of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve. Truffles Cooked in Champagne.—(1) Well wash^and clean 41b. of Truffles, put them in a saucepan, sprinkle over