THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 486 Soups—continued. the vegetables as much clear chicken-broth as may be desired for the Soup, and put in any nice pieces of cold roasted chicken that are available. When boiling, move the Soup to the side of the fire, and let it simmer till the vegetables are tender. Put some thin sippets of toast or crouto is of bread into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve it. Fig. 625. Vegetables for Julienne Soup. (2) Cut into fine long shreds two carrots, half a turnip, two stalks of celery, one leek, an eighth of a cabbage, and half an onion, and brown them in a saucepan with loz. of butter; moisten with lqt. of white broth or consommt;, and season with h table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for half-an-liour, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked green peas and 1 table spoonful of cooked string beans, boil up again, and serve. (3) Peel an equal quantity each of carrots, turnips, and onions, and cut them into narrow strips; also cut into fine shreds some leeks and celery. Boil the two latter vege- tables in salted water until tender. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the carrots and turnips, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in the onions, and fry the whole until lightly coloured, stirring at the same time. Drain off tiie butter, moisten the vegetables with 1 tea- cupful of clear stock, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze. Next pour in with the vegetables a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make the Soup, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then put in the leeks and celery, with a moderate quantity each of chopped tarragon and chervil leaves, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of sugar. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Julienne Soup with Poached Eggs.—Cut into small thin shreds of an equal length a few carrots, turnips, a piece of celery-root, an onion, the heart of a lettuce, and the white of half a leek. Put the onion and leek into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss them for a few minutes over a moderate fire without browning them, then put in the remainder of the vegetables, and toss also for a few minutes over the fire. Mix 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt with the vegetables, pour over them 1 teacupful of broth, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Pour in 34 pints of strained and skimmed brotb, and keep it over the fire till boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently. In fifteen minutes’ tune add half of a crisped colewort that has been scalded first in hot water then refreshed with cold water, drained, and chopped. When the vegetables are nearly done, mix some sorrel-leaves and blanched lettuce-leaves with the Soup. Poach in water that has been slightly acidulated with lemon-juice or vinegar as many fresh eggs as will be required; when cooked, trim the eggs, put them on a hot dish, and baste them with a little broth. Skim all the fat off the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with the eggs. Left-Over Soup.—Put the bones and trimmings of some cold roast beef into a large saucepan, with the flank end of a sirloin steak uncooked, and two cold mutton chops, all cut up in small pieces; add 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled and chopped onions, two sticks of celery, two baked apples, one fried egg, 1 table-spoonful each of mixed herbs and salt, \ table-spoonful of cloves and peppercorns mixed, and 4qts. of cold water. Boil the above ingredients till the meat is in rags and the water reduced to one half; then strain the Soup, and leave it till the next day. Skim the fat off the Soup, put in with it 1 breakfast-cupful For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soups—continued. of either cold cooked tomatoes or macaroni, and some more seasoning if required. Boil the Soup up, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Lent Soup.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour to a smooth paste with 1 teacupful of milk, put it in a saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of veal stock, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked; then move the saucepan to the side. But the yolks of two eggs into a cup, just break them with a spoon, then put them into the Soup by degrees, and stir it well. The Soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Dissolve a lump of butter in the Soup, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (2) Clean and skin three smelts, curl them round, and fix them by putting the tails in their mouths; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, fry them in fat or oil to a golden colour, take them out, and drain them on paper. In the meantime, hard boil six or eight plover’s eggs, peel them, and cut them into quarters. Have ready a hot tureen, arrange the eggs and smelts in it, pour over the required quantity of boiling fish broth or consommt, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Lorraine Soup (a la Lorraine).—Put over the fire in a saucepan lib. each of lean beef and mutton, a knuckle of veal, one peeled and washed turnip, one scraped and washed carrot, a small bunch of parsley, and a sprig or two of lemon thyme, with 4qts. of water and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Let it boil till the liquor is reduced to 3qts., then strain it. Boil in milk the crumb of a French roll, and pound it in a mortar with Jib. of blanched sweet almonds, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and the white meat of a good-sized roasted fowl. Mix this paste with the Soup after it is strained, and boil it gently for ten minutes; then pour it into the tureen, and serve. Macdonald Soup.—Pound a cooked calf’s brain in a mortar, add two cooked onions, three raw yolks of eggs, and 1 tea- spoonful of curry-powder, and rub well through a fine sieve. When ready to serve, put it into 3 pints of broth in a saucepan, add a peeled and baked cucumber cut in slices, and boil up. Macedonian Soup (a la Macedoine).—Line the bottom of a saucepan with thin slices of ham, then put in an equal quan- tity of carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onions, about three of each and all cut up very small; pour in some stock, season it with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently till cooked to a pulp. Pass the Soup and vegetables through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, pour in 1 pint of cream, and stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve, pour the Soup into a tureen. Meg Merrilies Soup.—(1) Skin and clean a hare, and cut it into pieces, saving the blood; cut off some of the flesh, which with the liver put on one side for making force- meat balls. Put the remainder of the hare into a sauce- pan, with a few small peeled onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 5qts. of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently for two hours. Put 1 teacupful of ground lice in a large saucepan, mix it smooth with the blood of the hare and some warm water, stir it in a saucepan over the fire until boiling, and then stiain in the above stock. Peel, cut into small pieces, and partially boil llli. each of carrots and turnips, then strain and add them to the Soup. Skin two fresh partridges, divide into quarters, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them; when nicely browned, put the pieces of partridges into the Soup. Mince the reserved meat and liver, and mix with it half its quantity of chopped fat bacon, one anchovy that has been skinned, boned, and chopped (or failing that, use 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy paste), and a few table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Season the mixture with moderate quantities of grated lemon-peel, lemon-thyme, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; bind the whole with a well-beaten egg, and make it into small balls about the size of a walnut. Melt a lump of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, put in the balls, and toss them about over the fire until nicely and equally Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.