THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 641 Turbot—continued. add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice or vinegar, bring the liquor again to the boil, skim well, and let the fish simmer gently until quite done. Take it out, drain it, slip it on to a dish, and serve with boiled clams and sprigs of parsley for garnish, and cream or butter sauce- in a sauceboat. Turbot A la Creme.—(1) Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with a small piece of onion and a little parsley; boil up over the fire, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour worked up in an equal quantity of cold milk, and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of white pepper and a little thyme, 1 teacupful of butter, and salt to taste; put a little of this mixture at the bottom of a well-buttered pan or dish, cover with a layer of finely- chopped cold boiled Turbot, and continue in this way until the dish is full, using about 5lb. or 61b. of the fish altogether, and finishing up with the milk mixture. Sprinkle the top with sifted breadcrumbs and grated cheese, set the pan or dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (2) Divide into flakes about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot. Put loz. each of flour and butter into a saucepan, stir well over the fire for a few minutes, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and stir until it boils. Sprinkle in a strong seasoning of cayenne, salt, and pepper, and add 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; take the pan off the fire and beat quickly in the yolks of two eggs. Put a small quantity of this sauce on to a dish in which the fish is to be served, cover the sauce over with a layer of fish, then more sauce over the fish, and so on until the dish is full or the ingredients used up. Take 3 table-spoonfuls of fine brown breadcrumbs, and mix them up with a tldrd of their quantity of grated Parmesan or any other cheese; sprinkle these over the Turbot, place the dish in the oven to warm the fish through, and serve. (3) Remove the skin and bones from about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot, cut the flesh into small pieces, and lay them on a dish; put Jib. of butter with 2oz. of flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until the butter has melted and mixed with the flour, pour in gradually 1 qt. of milk, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream. Boil the mixture for two or three minutes longer, season it with salt and pepper (a small quantity of grated nutmeg may be added if liked), and pour it over the pieces of fish; strew grated cheese over the fish ; dust over a small quantity of salt and pepper, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the cheese is lightly browned. Serve while hot. Turbot a la Espagnole.—Peel and slice a moderate-sized Spanish onion, and fry it in butter until cooked but not browned. Then put in some pieces of cold Turbot that have been freed from skin and bone, and cut into small pieces. Pour over them some French tomato sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and stir the ingredients over a moderate fire until the fish is hot. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot d la Gourmet.—Cut off about 31b. from the tail end of a middling-sized Turbot, rub it well with vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, and let it soak for two or three hours in a basin. Take out the crumb of a French roll, soak it in milk, squeeze it dry, put it into a sauce- pan with loz. of butter, and add a little seasoning of cayenne and salt and the yolk of an egg. Set the sauce- pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture is thick and smooth; then add about half its bulk in preserved or tinned lobster, or a dessert spoonful of essence of anchovies, and work the whole into a paste. Stuff the fish with this by lifting the flesh from the bone: put it with the black side downwards in a well buttered baking-dish, pour over a teacupful of any light white wine, add a teaspoon - ful each of vinegar and essence of anchovies, loz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the dish in a moderate oven and hake for an hour, basting it frequently with the liquor and taking care that it does not brown at all. Take out the fish when done, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cold milk into a basin, mix Turbot—continued. in a table-spoonful of flour, add a teacupful of milk that has been boiled down from double its bulk, pour the whole into a saucepan, and stir well over the fire until the preparation is sufficiently thick. Add 2oz. of butter and the yolk of one egg, stir for five minutes longer, and pour the whole through a sieve into the saucepan in which the Turbot was cooked, mixing it in with the stock. The saucepan should be on the fire, and while the mixture is being added it should be vigorously stirred. A few oysters if added will be a great improvement. Pour this preparation over the Turbot, and serve very hot. Stock with a little lemon-juice may be substituted for the wine if preferred. Turbot au Gratin.—(1) Put the belly-side half of a Turbot into a saucepan of salted water, boil for a minute or two, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until it is done, which will be in forty or fifty minutes. Take it out, drain it, remove the bones and black skin, and divide the flesh into rather small pieces. Put a layer of these at the bottom of ? gratin-dish, sprinkle over a little chopped cooked mushroom, and pour over a little reduced and well-seasoned bechamel sauce, and continue in this way until the dish is full, forming the whole into a dome shape. Mask the dome with more of the sauce, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, place the dish in a moderate oven, and let it remain for ten or twelve minutes, or until the surface is coloured. Take out the dish, place it on another one, and serve. (2) Well wash a large Turbot prepared and salted, and wipe it dry. Put lib. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a blanched chopped shallot, 2oz. of chopped parsley, 3 pints of mushrooms, the juice of two lemons, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and stir until thoroughly mixed. Put half of this on a drainer of a turbot-kettle, place the fish over it, cover with the remainder of the mixture, and pour over a pint of white wine. Bring the liquor to the boil, basting the fish frequently with it; remove the kettle to a slow fire, and let the contents cook gently for an-hour-and-three-quarters. Cover the fish with rasped bread, mixed with a little Parmesan cheese; pour over a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, cook for fifteen minutes longer, take out the fish, put it on a dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of parsley, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Tomato or any fish sauce may be served with Turbot cooked in this way. (3) Remove the bones from a cold boiled Turbot, put it on a dish with a very little fish stock, cover with bechamel sauce, and sprinkle over breadcrumbs seasoned with pepper, also a little Parmesan cheese; brown the surface with a salamander, and serve as hot as possible. (4) Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour; mix well over the fire, then pom- in \ pint of milk and stir it until thickened and boiling. Cut some cold Turbot into small pieces, removing all skin and bone, put the fish into the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and pepper and salt to taste, and toss the fish about over the fire until thoroughly hot. Rub a gratin-dish lightly over with garlic, turn the fish and sauce on to it, strew grated Parmesan cheese and baked breadcrumbs over the top, and bake in a brisk oven for a few minutes. When nicely browned over the surface, serve in the same dish. Turbot a la Laguipierre.—Clean and prepare a large Turbot by making several cuts in its sides, and rub it well all over with sweet oil seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut two onions and two lemons into slices; mix up with them some parsley, bay-leaves, and sprigs of thyme, cover the fish with this, and pour over 1 pint of oil. Rub the fish every now and then with this marinade for about two hours or until well and equally flavoured with it. Take up the fish, remove as much of the marinade as possible, rub it well again with oil, sprinkle it slightly with salt, place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and let it cook until of a light colour all over, turning it carefully when done on one side. W hen the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.