575 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Taste—continued. same locality co-operate to complete the sensation of Taste—the cheeks, the palate, and above all the nasal passage. Upon this latter physiologists have not laid sufficient stress. The cheeks supply saliva necessary for mastication and the formation of the alimentary mass. They are, as well as the palate, endowed with the nervous faculty of appreciating flavours, and it is not quite certain whether the gums do not partake of this faculty in a measure. Without the sense of smell situated at the back of the mouth, the sensation of Taste would be blunted and imperfect. Persons born without tongues, or deprived of them by an operation, have still the sense of Taste. “We have seen that the sensation of Taste resides prin- cipally in the papillae of the tongue. But anatomy teaches us that all tongues are not equally furnished with papillae ; in some cases the difference being as three to one. This explains why two guests may be seated at a banquet, one being greatly delighted with the viands before him, whereas the other seems merely to eat because he is obliged to. This latter has the tongue scantily provided with papillae, showing plainly that the kingdom of Taste has its deaf and dumb. “Sensation oe Taste.—Some five or six opinions are current as to the mode by which the sensation of Taste is brought about. I also have mine, and they are these: The sensation of Taste is a chemical operation, brought about by moisture; that is to say, it is necessary that sapid molecules should be dissolved in some fluid, which is after- wards absorbed by nervous tufts, papillae, or absorbents, which line the apparatus of Taste. This idea, new or not, is capable of physical proof, and is almost apparent. Pure water creates no sensation of Taste, because it contains no tasty particles. Dissolve a grain of salt, or a few drops of vinegar, in it, and the sensation of Taste follows. Other drinks cause a sensation of Taste, because they are solu- tions more or less charged with particles that can be tasted. It is useless to fill the mouth with finely-divided particles of insoluble matter; the tongue feels them, but 'there is no Taste. “ Flavours.—The number of these is infinite, for every soluble body has a flavour of its own, which does not exactly resemble any other. In spite of this we have but few general terms to express flavours, and these are sweet, sour, bitter, and fragrant, which may be classified still further as agreeable and disagreeable.” To the foregoing quotation Brillat Savarin adduced more that is not needful for the purpose of understanding the definition of Taste. By a series of experiments he shows that the assistance of the nerves of the nose is of the first importance, and that there are several stages of tasting, one of which is a decided reaction. For instance, the re- actionary Taste of sweet would be bitter, and so on, each flavour having a reaction when continued an unreasonable length of time; and thus it comes to pass that the indi- vidual sickens of a monotony in diet. The nerves of Taste like change and must have it, even though the change were under ordinary circumstances less agreeable than the original. Brillat Savarin further protests that Taste procures for human beings a greater proportion of enjoyment than any other sense. 1st. Because the pleasure of eating is the only pleasure, taken with moderation, which is not fol- lowed by fatigue. 2nd. Because it is everlasting throughout all ages and all conditions. 3rd. Because it returns at least once in the day, and might be repeated without inconvenience two or three times in the same space of time. 4th. Because it can associate itself with other senses, and even console us for their absence. 5tli. Because the impressions received in this way are at once more durable, and dependent upon the will of the indivi- dual. 6th. Because whilst eating we experience an indefinable happiness which comes upon us instinctively, perhaps because whilst eating we are conscious of repair- ing loss and prolonging life. Taste—continued. Man is better pi’ovided with the sense of Taste than any other animal, and that this is so should fill the hearts of all cooks with a grand desire to administer to this great passion accordingly. TAWNTATALET.—This is a famous Turkish dish that deserves special notice. Put 1J pints of cream into a basin, mix in Jib. of rice- flour, and mb the whole through a fine sieve into a sauce- pan. Set the saucepan over the fire, and stir well until the whole is smooth ; as soon as it begins to bubble add Jib. of sifted crashed loaf sugar, and then cook for twenty minutes. The fire should be a very moderate one, other- wise the mixture would be liable to bum. Cut oft all the white meat from the breasts of two young fowls, cut it up very small, pound it in a mortar, and mix in the grated rind of half a lemon and the yolks of seven or eight eggs. Rub this mixture through a fine sieve into a saucepan, pour over the contents of the other sauce- pan, working well with a spoon as it is being added; boil up once more, then turn the whole into a deep dish. Let fall on the surface a few drops of caramel, stir them gently with a knife to give an appearance of marbling, and serve. TEA (Fr. The; Ger. Tliee; Ital. Te; Sp. Te).—Tea originated, or was discovered, according to the Chinese legend, by Darma, the son of an Indian king, who paid a semi-religious visit to China about a.d. 519. In order to prove his religious fervour, he led a very austere life, “ eating only vegetables, and spending most of his time in contemplation of the Deity.” He made a vow against sleep, to enable him the more faithfully to perform the duties he had imposed upon himself; but unfortunately, “ after continual watchings for several years,” sleep over- came him. On his awakening, “ such was his remorse for having broken his vow,” that in order to prevent a relapse he cut off his eyelids and threw them indignantly upon the ground. “ Next morning” (the legend speaks of the morning as though he had spent the night in sleep again) “ he found them metamorphosed into two shrubs, which have ever since been known by the name of Chaa,” the Chinese for eyelids. The moral of this story is that Darma chewed some of the leaves and thus learned their invigorating and arousing properties, so that “ henceforth his meditations became more fluent, pithy, and exalted.’’ In the year 1639 the Chinese presented some Tea-leaves to a Russian ambassador as a present for the Czar, but he did not sufficiently esteem the infusion of Tea with which he had been regaled at the court of the Mogul to consider the leaves worthy of transport. A few years after that date, an advertisement appeared in the London Gazette (Sept. 2nd, 1658) to the following effect: “That excellent, and by all pliysitians approved, China drink, called by the Chinese ‘ Tcha,’ by other nations Tay alias Tee, is sold at the Sultaness Head, a cophee-liouse in Sweeting’s Rents, by the Royal Exchange, London.” A year or two later, a rival handbill was distributed about the City of London, setting forth how Thomas Garway, of Exchange Alley, sold Tea. The wording was as follows: “ That the virtues and excellencies of this Leaf and drink are many and great, is manifest by the high esteem and use of it (especially of late years) among the physicians and knowing men in France, Italy, Holland, and other parts of Christendom ; and in England it hath been sold in the Leaf for £6 and sometimes £10 the pound weight; and in respect of its former scarceness and dear- ness, it has been used only as a Regalia in high Treatments and Entertainments, and Presents made thereof to Princes and Grandees till the year 1657. The said Thomas Garway did purchase a quantity thereof, and first publicly sold the said Tea in Leaf and Drink, made according to the direc- tions of the most knowing Merchants and Travellers into those Eastern countries; and upon knowledge and experi- ence of the said Garway’s continued care and industry in