569 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. frequently. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour the jelly when cool into a mould, turn it out when firm, and garnish with preserved fruit (see Fig. 754). A wine- glassful of sherry or brandy may he added during the cooking, using less water. (3) Wash 1 h teacupfuls of Tapioca, drain it, put it into a double boiler with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and boil for an hour, by which time the Tapioca should be soft and transparent. It will require to be stirred frequently. Add 1 saltspoonful of salt, | teacupful of sugar, and a little more than a teacupful of currant jelly. Stir well over the tire until the jelly is dissolved, remove the pan from the fire, let the preparation cool, turn it into a glass dish, and serve when cold. Cream and sugar should accompany this. A pint of any small ripe fruit or berries may be substituted for the jelly, adding more or less sugar to taste. Tapioca in Milk.—Put 6oz. of well-washed Tapioca into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and stir well over the fire for a few minutes; remove the pan to the side of the fire, add a little seasoning, and cook until the Tapioca is done. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs in a little cream, stir them into the soup to thicken, remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in a small lump of butter, pour the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. Tapioca Puddings.—(1) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk, add jib of Tapioca, stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes with a wire whisk. Take it from the fire, let it cool, add 4oz. of powdered sugar, and mix well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill up with the Tapioca, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half the height of the moulds with warm but not boiling water, put them in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel and with a thin knife detach them, turn them out on to a hot dish (see Fig. 755), and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a basin two eggs, add loz. of flour, toz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. When the milk is boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it comes to the boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Put loz. of Tapioca into lqt. of cold fresh milk, and let it steep four hours; add to it then 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a very little grated lemon-peel, and two beaten eggs. Put all together in a saucepan over the fire, stir it till it conies to a boil, then pour the pudding into a dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca into a basin with lqt. of water, and let it soak all night. Strain off the water, put the Tapioca into a double-boiler, pour over 5 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil slowly for about three- quarters of-au-liour. Sprinkle in 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir well, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Turn it out into a basin or mould, let it get cold and set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with cream and sugar. Tapioca—continued. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk over 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, and let it steep for an hour; then pour it into a jar with another pint of milk, set it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it cook till the Tapioca is quite soft; then take it from the fire, and let it cool a little. Beat up five eggs with 1 pint of milk; and rub 2oz. of butter into tlb. of sugar. Stir eggs, milk, butter, and sugar into the Tapioca ; then stir in the grated rind of half a lemon and 41b. of raisins, stoned and cut in halves. Butter a pudding-dish, pour the pudding into it, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. (5) Put 1 teacupful of Tapioca into a bowl with h pint of milk, and leave it until it has absorbed all the milk. Put 1 pint of milk into a lined stewpan with 1 heaped table- spoonful of caster sugar and a small quantity of saffron; when the milk boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and leave it for a short time. When well coloured with the saffron, strain the milk, mix it slowly with the Tapioca, return the whole to the stewpan, and boil it gently until quite cooked. Beat two eggs well, and stir them in with the Tapioca. Butter a pie- dish, pour the Tapioca into it, put a few small pieces of butter about on the top, and bake it in a quick oven for about ten minutes or until lightly browned on the top. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (6) Put ‘2oz. of Tapioca into an earthenware jar, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, stand the jar in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the Tapioca swell. Turn it out of the jar into a saucepan, add the milk, and boil for an hour, or until it is quite soft. Prepare a custard with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, two eggs, 2oz. of sugar, and a small quantity of grateil rind of lemon to flavour. Beat in with the Tapioca 2oz. of butter, turn it into a dish, pour over the custard, set the dish in a slow oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a half. Take out the pudding when done, and serve. (7) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a basin with sufficient water to cover, and let it soak for two or three hours. Take it out, drain, put it into another basin, and pour over lqt. of boiling milk. Let this get cool, and add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and a little flavour- ing of essence of lemon or rose-water. Turn the mixture into a dish, put it in the oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, let it cool, then pour over the whites of two eggs beaten up with 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and serve. (8) Put five eggs into a basin, beat them well, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of essence of lemon. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca into a dish, pour over lqt. of milk, add 1 teacupful of butter pulled in pieces, and, lastly, the beaten eggs. Set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (9) Well clean 2oz. of Tapioca, put it at the bottom of a pie-dish, add loz. of finely-shred beef-suet or butter pulled in lumps, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, set the dish in a moderate oven, and let it remain for half- an-hour. Beat in 1 teacupful of milk, and let it remain for fifteen minutes longer. In the meantime, prepare a custard with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, a slight flavouring of grated nutmeg or any other that is desired, and add sufficient sugar to taste. Pour this into the dish with the pudding, and bake slowly for about an hour. Take it out when done, and serve hot. (10) Wash £ teacupful of Tapioca, and soak it for a couple of hours in warm water. Drain the water off the Tapioca, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, lqt. of fresh milk, two- wineglassfuls of white wine, brown sugar to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. (11) French.—Put 2oz. of Tapioca into a saucepan, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil slowly until the Tapioca begins to swell; then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, and stir well until the whole is quite thick. Remove the pan from the fire, add one well-beaten egg.