498 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Sparrows—continued. (2) Skin, draw, and truss as many birds as required, and stuff each with a very little oyster forcemeat wrapped up in a thin slice of lean cold boiled ham, and wrap each bird round with a vine-leaf. Peel as many large potatoes as birds, cut them into halves, scoop out a hollow in each, put a bird between two, previously -wetting the edges with white of egg, tie round with broad tape, and Fig. 629. Sparrow in Fotato. bake to a chestnut brown in a moderate oven. About an hour will be quite sufficient. When done, glaze them with raw egg; after removing the tape, and when the glaze is dry, tie round with different coloured ribbons. Place them on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and serve with gravy and wine sauce in a sauce-tureen and red-currant jelly on a separate dish. Sparrow Pudding-.—Mix 6oz. of finely-chopped suet with All), of flour, then add an egg and sufficient water to form a light paste, and with this line a greased mould. Clean about eight Sparrows, cut them into halves, divide Alb. of truffles and ham forcemeat between them, and stuff them. Cut Alb. of beef steak into strips, beat them slightly, put a little grated cocoa-nut on each, roll them up, put them intermixed with the Sparrows into the mould, place a few lumps of butter on the top, pour in sufficient stock to cover, lay on a top of paste, tie over with a cloth, and steam for two-hours and a half. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon on a dish, turn out the pudding on top, and serve immediately. SPARROW-GRASS.—See Asparagus. SPATCHCOCK or SPITCHCOCK.—This term is applied to a process of splitting open and grilling or broiling, such as an eel or fowl. The word is a compound of spit and cock, or cook, as denoting the mode of trussing by means of small spits or skewers. Some ingenious persons have endeavoured to draw a distinction between Spatchcock and Spitchcock, believing that the former applies to fowls or other birds and the latter to eels. Doubtless they are one and the same, the former Spatchcock or Spitchcock—continued. being more generally used in cookery, whereas the latter is the more correct. Receipts for spitchcocking will be found under eels. The following is a good receipt for Spatchcock: Split a fowl in halves right down the breast and back, and pass the skewers through the bird as shown in the illustra- tion (see Fig. 630); sprinkle a little salt and plenty of pepper over it, nib butter all over, lay it on a hot well- greased gridiron, and broil over a clear brisk fire. Put a lump of butter on a hot dish, set it in front of the fire till the butter is melted, then lay on it a nicely-toasted round of bread without crust. Dish the Spatchcock or Spitchcock on the toast, and serve hot. SPATULA (Fr. Spatule; Ger. Spatel).—A long flat knife with two edges and a round point (see Fig. 631), r Fig. 631. Spatula used by Confectioners. commonly used by confectioners, and sometimes called a palette-knife. In this country the name has suffered corruption, and has become “ spaddle ” or “ spattle ” Fig. 632. Spatula used in Ice-making. amongst British confectioners, especially when referring to the Spatula used in ice-making (see Fig. 632). SPEARMINT.—See Mint. / SPICE (Fr. Epice; Ger. Gewiirz; Ital. Spezie; Sp. Especial.—There seems to be some little difficulty about the interpretation of this word. Taken generically, it signifies a species or kind of substances which have similar properties, and are used for similar purposes. Thus, Spice, as we understand in the kitchen, signifies aromatic vegetable substances used for flavouring or Fig. 633. Spice-box (Adams and Son). seasoning, therefore all vegetable substances possessing these qualities are Spice, and of these we have a very extensive assortment, which are treated under their own headings. Separate Spices ready for use are usually kept in a metal Spice-box (see Fig. 633) divided into compart- ments, the centre being a nutmeg-box and grater. The following receipts for the preparation of various mixtures of Spice will be found useful: Extract of Spices for Mulling- Wine.—Put a nutmeg into a mortar with ten or twelve cloves and a piece of ginger and bruise them finely; put the mixture into a A pint bottle, fill it up with unsweetened gin, and cork it down tightly. Shake the mixture occasionally for twelve or fourteen days, then let it stand until the Spices have