615 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Trifles —continued. thick slices of bread, trim them to a round shape, and scoop out a deep hollow in the centre of each. Put a large lump of clarilied fat or lard in a stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted; then put in the pieces of bread, and fry them until of a pale golden-brown. Drain the bread on a sheet of paper for a few minutes, then fill the hollow with the above mixture. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Trifles on it, garnish them tastefully with fried parsley, and serve. Tipsy Trifle.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire, together with Jib. of sugar. Beat the yolks of five eggs, and when the milk is almost on the point of boiling, stir them in, continuing to stir till the milk thickens; take it from the fire then without letting it boil, and when it is cold, flavour it with essence of vanilla or essence of almonds. Line the bottom of a trifle-dish with slices of stale sponge cake, and wet them well with white wine; when pretty well soaked, lay over them a layer of jam or fruit jelly, over this a layer of macaroons well soaked in white wine, then a layer of sponge cake well moistened with wine, a layer of jam or fruit jelly, and then more soaked macaroons, and so on till the bowl is three-parts full. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with a little bright red fruit jelly. Pour the cold custard over the trifle, and heap the frothed whites on top, dropping a bit of bright red jelly here and there over it. TRIPE (Fr. Tripe; Ger. Flecke; Ital. Trippa; Sp. Tripa).—This term is applied to the large stomach of ruminating animals as prepared for the cook. The origin of the word seems to be in doubt, unless it can in any way be associated with the Latin tribere—to rub to- gether, that corresponding in a degree to the action of the walls of the stomach during digestion. The thick folds and fat pieces (see Fig. 823) are considered the best. Tripe is usually bought ready prepared; but as cases may happen when the cook might have to clean it, the following instructions may be useful: Well wash the stomach as soon as it is taken from the bullock, changing the water frequently; dust the dark inside coat over with quicklime, and scrape it at once. Cut it up into four parts, dip them into boiling water, and scrape them until they become perfectly white. Put them into a bowl with weak brine thickened with meal, and let them remain for a day. Scrape and soak them in this way for seven or eight days, then put them into a saucepan with oatmeal-gruel to cover, and boil until tender. The Tripe should be tied up in a cloth. Turn it out of the cloth, put it into a bowl of weak brine, let it remain for a day or so, and it is ready for use. Or put the pieces of the stomach of a fat bullock, one at a time, into a saucepan of water, and warm them; take them out, scrape them well, put them into a bowl of slightly-salted water, wash them well, change the water daily, and let them soak for five days, by which time they should be quite white. Put them in a saucepan of water, and boil them: and if not required for present use, keep thorn in vinegar. Baked Tripe with. Potatoes.—Cut lib. of Tripe into squares about 2in. in diameter, put them into an earthen- ware basin, with four chopped onions, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, cover over with water or stock, put the basin in a slack oven, and bake for three houfs. Iripe—continued. -. Strain off the liquor into a saucepan, skim it, add suffi- cient flour to thicken it, and boil up once. Arrange the Tripe and onions in a pie-dish, pour over the liquor, and cover over with mashed potatoes. Put the dish in a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes, so as to thoroughly warm the whole and brown the surface. Take it out, and serve at once. Boiled Tripe.—(1) Well wash lib. or so of Tripe, put it into a bow l of cold water, and soak it for several hours. Take it out, drain it, cut it up into squares, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add a marrow-bone, and boil slowly for about six hours. Add five or six whole onions, a thickening of flour mixed in miilk, with salt and pepper to season, and cook for half-an- liour longer. Skim off the fat, turn the whole out on to \ a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Well wash a piece of Tripe, put it into a saucepan, cover with milk and water in equal parts, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about thirty minutes. Put it on a dish when d< ne, pour over onion sauce, and serve. (3) Well wash a piece of Tripe, cut it up into small squares, roll each one up in a thin slice of bacon well seasoned with finely-chopped parsley and sw'eet herbs, put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, add three or four carrots cut in slices, and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the pieces of Tripe on a dish, rub the carrots through a sieve over them, and serve ■with brown or white sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. Breaded Tripe.—Cut the Tripe into small, square pieces, roll them in warm butter, pepper them, and sprinkle over them chopped parsley and salt; roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and broil over a slow' fire. Serve hot with slices of lemon. Broiled Tripe.—Well wash a piece of Tripe, put it into a saucepan vrith sufficient milk and water to cover it, and boil for about tw'enty minutes. Take it out, drain it, cut it up into pieces, brush them over w'ith warm butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them until W'ell browned. Put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Broiled Tripe with. Tartar Sauce.—Put 21b. of Tripe, cut up into large squares, into a basin, dredge them over with salt and pepper, orcavtnne, add 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion, and a little chopped parsley, pour over some oil, and let the wdiole remain for an hour. Take them out singly, roll them in oil, cover them with bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Put them on a dish when done, and serve with tartar sauce either poured round or in a sauceboat. Curried Tripe.—Cut the Tripe into small pieces. Slice two or three onions according to the size, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and brown them over a quick fire; put the Tripe in with the onions, pour in sufficient broth to cover it, and stew' it gently till tender. Put 1 teaspoonful of flour in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of curry - powder; then stir in gradually J teacupful of cream, and 1 teacupful of broth. When quite smooth, stir the curry in W'ith the Tripe, and boil it for a few' minutes longer till thickened, stirring occasionally. When cooked, turn the Tripe on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Fricassee of Tripe.—Cut lib. or so of Tripe into 2in. squares, put them into a saucepan with a little each of ground ginger and mace, chopped onion, and sw'eet herbs in a bunch, pour over sufficient white wine to cover, set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for fifteen minutes. Remove the bunch of herbs, add a little chopped parsley, half an anchovy cut up small, the juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and a thickening of yolk of egg and butter. Season well, stir over the fire for a few minutes, turn the wdiole out on to dish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish.