457 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Smelts—continued. or six, according to their size, taking care not to brush oft' the crumbs. When the fat is smoking hot, put in one skewer full of Smelts, and fry them a golden brown. Take them out with a skimmer when done, lay them on brown paper in a dripping-pan, and keep them hot until all are fried; then arrange them on a dish with fried parsley and lemons as a garnish, and serve. Baked Smelts.—(1) Thoroughly clean and wash the Smelts, and lay them in a baking-dish with some warmed butter, dried sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with grated breadcrumb, moisten them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine. Bake the Smelts hi a slow oven till the liquor has somewhat reduced. \\ hen cooked, brown the top over with a salamander, and serve. (2) Coat the bottom of a dish with butter ; mix some chopped shallots, parsley, pepper, and salt, with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and sprinkle some of them over the dish. Wipe the Smelts and arrange them in a row on the top of the breadcrumbs; pour over them a little anchovy sauce, sprinkle the remainder of the seasoned breadcrumbs on the top, and put a few small lumps of butter over them. Bake the Smelts from fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, serve the Smelts on the same dish while hot. Boiled Smelts.—(1) Clean the Smelts by drawing them through the gills, then wash and wipe them well. Arrange the fish on a fish-drainer the size of the stewpan, placing them with their heads turned to the outside and resting on their stomachs. Pour some fish broth into the stewpan, put in the drainer containing the Smelts, and place the lid on. When on the point of boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire so that the Smelts may cook gently for eight or nine minutes. Lift the drainer out carefully with the fish, drain them well, and put them on a hot dish; pour over some plain butter sauce, squeeze a little lemon juice, and sift over some chopped parsley and a little salt. Serve the Smelts while very hot. (2) Scale and clean the required number of Smelts, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan ; add 2 table- spoonfuls of olive-oil, three or four slices of lemon freed of the rind, and a little salt and pepper. Cover the fish with white wine and water mixed in equal quantities, and boil them gently till done. Put 1 pint of white wine in a small saucepan with one head of garlic blanched and pounded, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and chives, and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table- spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire till cooked. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve while hot. (3) Boil the Smelts in 4 pint of white wine, \ pint of water, and two table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, together with a very little fennel, a little salt, and a couple of slices of lemon. When the fish are done add a liaison made of yolks of eggs and finely-shred chervil. Serve the Smelts with the sauce they have been boiled in. Pried Smelts.—(1) Clean and dry the fish, roll them in beaten egg, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb; dredge a little flour and salt over them. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a frying-pan, and when hot put in the Smelts and fry them quickly. Drain the fish when richly browned, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean and cut oft' the fins of a few fresh Smelts, dry tlmm well, and dredge them over with flour. Beat \oz. of warmed butter with the yolks of two eggs, dip the Smelts into it, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb. Fry the Smelts till nicely browned in boiling fat, then drain them; arrange them in the form of a star on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of shrimp sauce in the centre (see Fig. 590). (3) Wash well and thoroughly dry eighteen fresh Smelts. Split them right along the backbone in the centre, remove the backbones, season with 1 pinch of salt and 4 pinch of pepper, sprinkle them with 4oz. of flour, place them in a pan with loz. of butter on the hot range, and fry for Smelts—continued. two minutes on each side, or until they obtain a light brown colour; then dress them on a hot dish. Place in a pan loz. of butter, and fry it until it becomes of a nut-brown colour; add to it 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, pour it over the Smelts, decorate the dish all round with parsley, and serve. Fig. 590. Fiued Smelts. (4) Wash the fish well but do not empty them; dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, and fry in plenty of boiling lard. When lightly browned they are done enough. Serve them very hot, garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and accompanied with thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Potted Smelts.—(1) Clean three dozen Smelts and pack them tightly into small earthenware pots. Mix together 4oz. each of whole cloves, peppercorns, and whole allspice. Divide the spices into as many parts as their are jars, tie each part in a piece of muslin, and put one in each jar together with 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Cover the fish with vinegar, pour a little olive-oil in each jar, using 1 pint in all. Put some plates on the top of the jars, stand them in a moderate oven, and bake the fish for four hours. At the end of that time take the jars out, and when cold keep them in a cool dry cupboard. The Smelts will keep for five or six months, and are almost as nice as sardines. The quantity of oil can be varied according to taste. (2) Scale and draw the Smelts, but leave the roes in Dry them well, put them in a jar, season with salt, pepper, and mace, put in some pieces of butter, and tie the jars over with paper. Bake the Smelts for three-quarters-of-an- hour, then take them out of the oven and leave till cold. Take the Smelts out of the liquor, pack them tightly down in oval pots, and cover until clarified butter. Smelts a la Bearnaise.—Split twelve good-sized or eighteen medium-sized Smelts down the backs, remove the back- bones, rub them with 1 table-spoonful of oil, and season, with 4 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Broil them in a double broiler for two minutes on each side, pour a little more than 1 gill of good bearnaise sauce on a dish, arrange the Smelts carefully on top, ganishing with a very little demi-glaze sauce poured round the dish, and serve. Smelts a la Boulangere.—Clean and dry the fish on a cloth, dip them into very thick cream, and then dredge them thickly over with flour, torming a paste round them. Put some lard in a frying-pan and when very hot put the fish in and fry them till a light golden brown. Arrange the fish on a dish-paper or folded napkin placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Smelts au Gratin.—(1) Clean eighteen Smelts, wipe them very dry, and put them on a baking-dish with 2 table- spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs, 4 wineglassful of white wine, 4 pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper. Cover with six whole mushrooms and 4 pint of Spanish sauce. Sprinkle lightly with breadcrumbs and a little warmed butter, place the dish in a hot oven for ten minutes, and serve with the juice of half a lemon, also 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. The Smelts can be boned if desired. (2) Clean and wash the Smelts. Coat the inside of an oval gratin-disli with loz. of butter, then put in the Smelts ; dust a little pepper and salt over them, pour in \ pint of French white wine and § pint of Italian sauce, cover the top thickly with grated breadcrumb, and boil for five minutes. Put the gratin-disli in the oven and finish cooking the Smelts (they will take about fifteen