484 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. plantains in a mortar and pound them, dipping the pestle in cold water occasionally to prevent it sticking. When a smooth mass, take it out of the mortar with a spoon that has been moistened with water and place it on a dish. Take off the heads of some ochras, cut them into slices, Vasli them, and put them in a saucepan with an equal quantity each of salt pork and salt beef, a few small fresh fish, a small piece of salt fish, a handful of shrimps, one chopped onion, two fresh peppers, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in as much water as is required for Soup, put the lid on the saucepan, and place it over the fire. When boiling move the Soup to the side, and let it simmer for an hour or more. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with the fou fou or plantain on a separate dish. French Soup (a la Franqaise).—Prepare a sheep’s head and pluck, put it in a saucepan over the fire in 4qts. of water, and let it boil gently, skimming frequently till reduced to 2qts.; then add half-a-dozen peeled onions, a carrot scraped, washed, and sliced, a turnip peeled, washed, and sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and 4 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley; add also two or three cloves and a few peppercorns, with salt to taste. When the head is tender, take it up, cut the meat off it in small square pieces, and lay it aside till the Soup is finished. Pick out the herbs and the pluck, add 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine, the meat of the head, a very small quantity of sugar, and a little mushroom ketchup. Serve with forcemeat balls in it. German Imperial Soup.—Mix five well-bsaten eggs with 1 pint of rich clear Soup, and season it with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Thickly mask the interior of a pudding-basin with butter, pour the Soup into it, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and boil it for an hour. Great care must be taken that the water does not get in the basin. Boil in another saucepan 2qts. of clear Soup. When cooked, turn the Soup custard out of the basin, cut it into thin slices, put them in a soup tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. German Soup (a l’Allemande).—(1) Make some nouille- paste, cut it into small squares, blanch and drain them, and leave them till cool. Put the nouilles in a saucepan, cover with broth, and boil them till done. When cooked, drain the nouilles, put them into a soup-tureen, pour in some boiling chicken broth, and serve it. (2) Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, and when it is melted put in loz. of cumin-seeds and fry them; then pour in 3qts. of chicken broth, and when boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for an hour. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (3) Make the required quantity of clear Soup, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Cut two stale French rolls into moderately thick slices, trim off all the crust, and cut them into small squares. Thoroughly beat three eggs with a table-spoonful of minced chives and parsley, and season them with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the squares of bread in the beaten egg, and leave them till well soaked. Throw the pieces of bread lightly into the Soup, and boil it until they rise to the top. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, ami serve. Gourmet’s Soup (a la Gourmet).—Put a large knuckle of veal into a saucepan or stockpot, together with two roasted fowls and any beef-bones that may be at hand, pour in 10 pints of beef stock, and boil for a few minutes ; carefully remove all the scum, prepare and add the desired quantity of any vegetables that are in season and a little pepper, and boil for five hours, by which time the liquor should be reduced to about 7J pints; then skim off the fat, remove the meat and bones, clarify with the white of egg beaten up with a small quantity of beef stock, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Strain through a cloth into another saucepan, and add the red part of a carrot and a turnip cut with a vegetable-cutter into columns and afterwards into slices about Jin. in thickness, also two heads of celery and two leeks in slices, all these being Soups—continued. previously blanched; add also a small portion each of sorrel and chervil, and two lettuces cut up into pieces, and boil for an hour longer; then put in a little sugar, and lastly about 3 table-spoonfuls of blanched asparagus- points. Put some small croutons of fried bread or toast at the bottom of a soup-tureen, pour over the boiling Soup, and serve. Green Soup (Russian).—Chop fine 2 table-spoonfuls of onion, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry them, but without allowing them to take colour. Sprinkle in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, cook for a few minutes, remove the saucepan from the fire, and pour in slowly JgalL of rich broth. Set the saucepan on the fire again, stir well until the liquor boils, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the liquor is moderately thick. Now add two prepared and trussed young fowls, and continue to cook for about forty-five minutes. Take out the fowls when done, drain them, skim off the fat from the liquor, and pass it through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Stir in a few table-spoonfuls of boiled sour-crout, and cook for about fifteen minutes longer. Cut off all the flesh from the fowls, put it in the Soup, boil for another ten minutes, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of nettle-leaves, boiled and passed through a sieve, or the same of sorrel, stir for a few minutes, turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Hasty Soup (a la Minute).—Cut 1 Jib. or 21b. of meat into small pieces; put loz. of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in the pieces of meat, and fry them until nicely browned, dredging them occasionally with flour. Peel and thinly slice an onion, put it into the saucepan, with a head of celery that has been cleaned and cut into small pieces, and one grated carrot. Put the lid on the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes; then pour in lqt. or more of hot water, and boil it for twenty minutes. Put croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast in a soup-tureen; season the Soup to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour it over the fried bread or toast, and serve. Holstein Soup.—Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan over a fire, and when hot put in 1 teacupful of well-washed pearl-barley, and stir it for a few minutes; then pour in gradually 3 pints of hot water, season with salt, and con- tinue stirring until the water begins to boil; then put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an hour, adding from time to time a small quantity of hot clear broth or water to keep up the original quantity of Soup. A few fresh morels or mushrooms may be cooked with the Soup. At the end of that time, mash the barley by working it against the sides of the saucepan with a wooden spoon, pour in 2qts. of white broth, add a lump of salt and a small lump of sugar, and boil the Soup up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, and stir in with the Soup, but not letting it boil after they are added. Cook a small quantity of sprue-asparagus and cauliflowers, then drain them and put them in the soup-tureen. Get some crayfish shells from which the bodies have been extracted. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs, chopped hard- boiled eggs, and parsley, season it with salt and pepper, and moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and stuff the shells with it. Then place them in the soup-tureen with the Soup, or the mixture may be made into balls, fried in a basket, and put into the Soup just before serving. Hunter’s Soup (a la Chasseur).—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices an equal quantity of carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with a head of celery that has been washed and cut into small pieces, about 2oz. of rather lean ham or bacon, a bunch of parsley, and a small lump of butter. Fry the above ingredients till lightly browned, then dredge in plenty of flour, and fry that also until lightly browned. Stir in 1 pint of red wine and 2qts. of broth, leave it over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer. Clean and fix three partridges on to a spit, and roast them before a good fire, basting them well with butter. When the parti'idges are cooked,