529 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERV. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—continued. ing half of the Sturgeon may he cooked in any other convenient way described under this heading. (3) Clean the fish, and cut some fillets from it about l^in. in thickness. Put them in a saucepan with some rich stock, and stew them gently until done. When cooked, drain the fillets of Sturgeon, put them on a hot dish, pour some piquant sauce round, and serve. (4) Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, and rub them over with a little lemon-juice. Roll the pieces of fish in flour, and broil them over a clear fire. When half cooked, flour the pieces again, put them in a saucepan, cover with broth, and let them simmer gently till finished cooking. Take the pieces of fish out when cooked and put them on a hot dish; boil the liquor till somewhat reduced, then mix with it 1 wineglassful each of white wine and cream, and 1 table- spoonful of Harvey’s sauce. Pour the sauce over the fish, garnish with slices of lemon, sprinkle some chopped capers over it, and serve. Sturgeon d la Cardinal.—Wash and skin a piece of Stur geon weighing about 21b., tie it round with a piece of string, put it in a saucepan with a carrot and onion, both sliced, one bay-leaf, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, cloves, salt, and mace, and 2 table spoonfuls of vinegar. Cover the fish with water, and boil it gently till cooked. Make some quenelles of whiting forcemeat and poach them. Drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the quenelles, cover with cardinal sauce, and serve. Sturgeon a la Gouffe.—Clean and scale a thick slice of Stur- geon that has been cut from the middle of the back. Let the fish steep for some time in cold water, then drain, and bind some thin slices of fat bacon round it. Put the fish in a fish-kettle, cover it with mirepoix and French white wine mixed in equal quantities, and cook it gently over a slow fire. Cut the fillets off six soles, skin and trim them neatly, cover each fillet of sole with a layer of fish forcemeat, roll them round, and wrap each in buttered paper. Put the fillets in a buttered saute pan, Fig. 689. Sturgeon A la Gouffe. pour in some mirepoix to half their height, and put them in the oven. When the forcemeat is cooked, take the paupiettes out and remove the paper. When the Sturgeon is cooked, trim off the skin, glaze the fish, put it on a hot dish, arrange the paupiettes round it, and put a turned mush- room on each (see Fig. 689). Pass the cooking-stock of the Sturgeon through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze, then mix it with 1 pint of Spanish sauce and boil till of a thick creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a silk sieve, pour some of it round the fish, and put the rest in a sauceboat; serve while very hot. Sturgeon au Gratin.—Clean and wash a small Sturgeon, skin it, cut off a piece of the belly part, cut it up, and sprinkle over with salt; let all remain for an hour, wash off the salt, and dry on a cloth. Put the fish into a braising-pan together with the cut-up pieces, cover with lib. of butter in pieces, add also 4qts. of minced mush- rooms, two blanched and chopped shallots, 4 table spoon fills of chopped parsley, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and add, tied up in two muslin bags, four cloves, 1 bay-leaf, two cloves of garlic, and a small quan- tity each of thyme and basil. Pour in lqt. of champagne, put the pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, anil cook for about two hours, basting the fish frequently with its own liquor. About fifteen minutes before serving Sturgeon—continued. cover the fish with rasped bread mixed with grated Par- mesan cheese; pour over a few table spoonfuls of warmed butter, place the fish on a hot dish, garnish with boiled potatoes and sprigs of fried parsley, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. Tomato sauce may also be served with it. Sturgeon a la Hollandaise.—Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, with suffi- cient slightly salted boiling water to cover, and boil slowly for an hour-and-a half. Take out the fish carefully, skin and trim it, put it on a dish, pour over Dutch sauce, and serve at once. Sturgeon a l’Indienne.—Prepare and boil a part of a Sturgeon and serve it marinaded with a ragout of oysters, mushrooms, crayfish-tails, and mussels, prepared in curry sauce. Garnish the dish with croquettes of Sturgeon cooked in broth and mixed up with ground allspice and a small quantity of anchovy butter, and serve. Sturgeon a la Provenqale.—Cut a slice of Sturgeon about 4in. thick, and lard it with strips of streaky bacon and eel. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the fish with some finely-chopped sweet herbs and parsley, a clove of garlic, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Put three bay-leaves over the fish, place the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and stand it over a slow fire. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of any sauce. Sturgeon a la Roi.—Cut some cutlets off a Sturgeon, lard them with thin strips of bacon, put them into a ma’inade of oil, white wine, and vinegar in equal parts, and let them remain for an hour or so. Place them in a steamer and steam until the fish will easily leave the bones. Take them out carefully, bone, and fill the cavities with lobster forcemeat; brown the cutlets with a salamander, put them on a dish, sprinkle a few cranberries ibetween them, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. The forcemeat should be composed of lobster-meat, truffles, butter, and yolk of egg- Sturgeon a la Romaine.—Carefully remove the skin with- out injuring the flesh of a good-sized piece of Sturgeon, sprinkle it well with salt, ami in an hour’s time wash it. Wipe it on a cloth, tie it up into shape, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, and prepare the following flavour- ings. Cut into slices four onions and carrots, 2qts. of mushrooms, and put them into a frying-pan with a season- ing of parsley, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, basil, cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, using a little of each; pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sweet-oil, and let then cook slightly, stirring continually with a wooden spoon. Pour in ] pint of rich stock or broth, and simmer gently for an-hour-and- a half. Strain it over the fish, season this with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, place over it two lemons cut in slices and freed from pips, pour over lqt. of champagne, bring the liquor quickly to the boil, remove the kettle to a slack fire, cover with hot ashes, and simmer gently for two hours, basting frequently with the liquor. Take out the fish, strain the liquor through a cloth or fine sieve, taking care that none of the fat passes through, reduce it to half-glaze, and mask the fish with half of it; put the other half into a saucepan, add to it as much Roman sauce as required, bring it to the boil, and stir in 6oz. or 8oz. of butter. When smooth, pour some of it round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sturgeon a la Russe.—Thoroughly wash and clean a piece of Sturgeon, and let it steep for twelve hours in salted water. Drain the water off the fish, pour some strong vinegar over it, and leave for two hours. Put it in a fish-kettle with two onions, a few sprays of sweet marjoram, and 1 table-spoonful of bay-salt; cover it well with boiling water, and let it simmer gently till cooked. When cooked, take the fish out, peel the skin off, dredge it well with flour, and brown it in front of a clear fire, hasting it con- tinually with butter. Put two anchovies, a piece of onion and lemon-peel, all chopped up, into a saucepan, and pour in 4 pint of white wine and 1 teacupful of rich broth. 2 M VOL. II.