622 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tCc., referred to. see under their special heads. Tr out—con tinned. (6) Remove the heads, open and clean the fish thoroughly, rub a small quantity of butter over the insides, and season them with salt and pepper. Put them in a baking dish, place a few pieces of butter about on the top, dredge lightly with flour, and bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When cooked, leave the fish until cold ; then put them into small potting jars, pour over them a little clarified butter, and tie down for use. Soused Trout.—Put 1 breakfast cupful of white wine and 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water into,a saucepan, add a season- ing of spice and sweet herbs, and boil. Draw and clean three or four Trout, removing the insides by drawing through the gills. Add a little vinegar to the liquor, put in the Trout, boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side, and simmer gently until the Trout are done. Take them out, and keep them warm in a dish. Add a little white pepper and crashed ginger to the liquor, boil up once more, and set it aside to get cold. Turn it into a deep dish, place the Trout in it, and let them remain for from four to five days. Garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 834), ami they are then ready for use. Stewed Trout.—(1) Draw the fish, wash them well, dry them on a cloth, and make two or three incisions on one side, allowing the point of the knife to touch the bone. Put in a fish kettle a rather large lump of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, a small hand- ful of grated horseradish, and equal quantities of white wine and water to cover the fish. When boiling, put in the Trout, and when cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, and strew over it in moderate quantities some powdered ginger and grated horseradish. Htrain a sufficient quantity of the cook- ing liquor to make the sauce into a small saucepan, and mix with it 2oz. of anchovy butter in small pieces, and boil it up again; then pour it over the Trout, and serve. (2) Clean and draw the fish, fasten its head with string, and put it in a stewpan. Put in another stewpan a few carrots, onions, and bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, four or five cloves, and a lump of butter, and toss about over the fire for a few minutes ; then pour in some red wine, and stew till the vegetables are tender. Pass the wine through a fine hair sieve on to the fish, season with a very small quantity of salt, and stew the fish until tender. When it is cooked, drain it and scrape off the scales. Then put it back into the stewpan with a little of its cooking liquor to keep it moist, and set it near the fire to keep warm. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed and lightly coloured; then pour in the remainder of the cooking wine of the fish, and 1 teacupful of veal gravy; add a few trimmings of mushrooms, and a bunch of green onions and parsley, and stir the sauce over the fire till thick and somewhat reduced; then strain it through a line hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, and mix with it a lump of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of anchovy essence. Stir it and boil it up again. Put the Trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (3) Draw and wash a couple of Trout, lay them on a baking-dish with a few small lumps of butter ami some white wine; strew over them some beaten mace, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, and capers, also some powdered parsley, thyme, and savoury, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew the fish in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay them on a hot dish, turn the contents of the baking-dish over them, garnish Trout—continued. with croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and slices of lemons, and serve. (4) Make a small opening in the stomach of the Trout and draw it, wash it well in plenty of water, then wrap it in a cloth, and fasten it securely at both ends with line twine or packthread, and bind it also round the middle, but not too tight. Put the fish in a fish-kettle with some court-bouillon, and stew it. Meanwhile, pre- pare the following sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful of Hour and 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, and stir it over the Hre till melted ; then pour in 1 teacupful of elder vinegar and the beaten yolks of five eggs, season with a little salt, and stir the sauce over a slow fire till thick, but move it oH' before it boils, or the eggs will curdle; tarragon or plain vinegar may be used in place of the elder, if preferred. M hen cooked, drain the Trout, put it on folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish paper placed on a hot dish, garnish it with neat sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (5) Put a salmon Trout in a stewpan with two sliced onions and a sliced carrot, a shallot, a bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf, four or five cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour in 1 wineglassful of claret and a suificient quantity of stock to cover the fish, and boil it gently. When tender, drain the Trout carefully and place it on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the Hre until well mixed; then strain in a sufficient quantity of the cooking liquor of the fish to make the sauce, and stir it until boiling and thickened. Move it off the Hre, and mix in quickly the beaten yolk of one egg and the strained juice of a small lemon or half a large one. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve at once. Trout a la Beyrout.—Clean a large Trout, dry it on a cloth, dredge it over with Hour, put it on a gridiron over a clear Hre, and broil it. Take it off when done, remove the skin, put it on a dish, pour over sauce a la Beyrout, or fish sauce, and serve. Trout a la Cambaceres.—Boil six Trout, and when cooked, place them on a hot dish. Put in a saucepan two minced truffles, six mushrooms, also minced, and ^ pint of Spanish sauce, also twelve olives and 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Skim off the fat very carefully, pour the sauce over the Trout, ami serve. Trout a la Chambord.—(1) Clean, wash, and dry three fine Trout of Jib. each, stuff them with fish forcemeat, and place them in a deep baking-dish, buttering it well with about fjOz. of butter. Add \ wineglassful of white wine, a bouquet garni, a small pinch of salt, and the same of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes in the oven, basting it frequently. Take the liquor from under the fish, put it in a saucepan with 4 pint of good Spanish sauce, reduce, and skim off the fat; then add one truffle and four mushrooms, all well sliced, also twelve blanched oysters. Dress the Trout on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with six fish quenelles. (2) Take out the inside of a large Trout by pulling it through the gills and without cutting it, chop off the fins, wash the Trout well, put it into a fish-kettle with mire- Fig. 835. Trout a la Chambord. poix and claret in equal quantities, and cook it until tender. Take it out when done, skin, put it on a dish, decorate it with salmon forcemeat squeezed through a funnel or forcer, making lines across it, insert some pieces of truffle into the