567 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tansy—continued. whites of four. Put a handful of Tansy leaves and double that quantity of spinach in a mortar, and pound them ; strain their juice through a piece of muslin, mix it with the above ingredients, and add J2lb. of caster sugar that has been well beaten with Jib. of warmed butter, and grate in half a nutmeg. Pour the mixture into a lined sauce- pan, and stir it over a very slow fire until thick, but do not let it boil; leave it until cool, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy. Butter the edges of a deep dish and border it with a good puff paste, pour in the mixture, arrange tastefully over the top some candied sweetmeats, and bake the pudding for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Tansy and Spinach Pudding.—Cut off a very thick slice of crumb of bread, lay it in a basin, pour over it lqt. of boiling milk, put a cover over the basin, and let it stand till cold. Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Pound some leaves of spinach with some Tansy, strain the juice, and add sufficient of it to the eggs to make the pudding a good green colour ; add also 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, sugar to taste, half a grated nutmeg, and Jib. of fresh butter. Mix all these with the bread and milk, put all into a saucepan, and stir it over the lire till hot. Pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. Dredge white sugar over the top, and serve. TAO-FOO CHEESE.—See Cheese. TAPS and TAPPING.—To enter very largely upon this subject would be somewhat out of the line of the intentions of this Encyclopaedia. The word itself is probably of the same origin as tap—a light blow, in allusion to the mode of affixing Taps in the cask or other vessel. From this has been derived the word “ Tap ” as applied to the quality of a beer, and so on to the place where beer is supplied and consumed. A large variety of Taps have been invented and manu- factured for use principally in cellars; so large a variety, indeed, that they may be counted by hundreds. Those of most service to the butler, as having stood the test of generations, are the plain beer Tap, with removable key, for beer, the wooden Tap for cider, and the long-nosed Tap for wines that will require bottling. The mode of tapping is very simple : a long strip of brown paper is bound tightly round the root of the Tap, care being taken that it shall not cover the perforations through which the liquor should flow. The cask is put into position, and the Tap held in one band with the end against the Tap-cork; then, with a strong mallet, a few light taps are given to drive the cork a little way into the head of the cask, until it is sufficiently forced in to ensure the Tap being sent home by one vigorous blow of the mallet. All Taps should be thoroughly cleaned before inserting, and care taken to ascertain that the tube is quite free. It is generally advisable to put the key, when removable, into the Tap before driving it into the barrel. TAPIOCA (Fr. Tapioca; Ger. Tapioka).—A starch or fecula obtained from the root of the Janipha Manihot, a tropical American plant (see Fig. 753), which is prepared for the market by washing, and then drying on hot plates, when it assumes a wart-like appearance. In its natural state it is stated to be poisonous, losing these qualities by the preparation it undergoes before exporta- tion. See also Cassareep and Cassava. Pure Tapioca is insipid, inodorous, and only slightly soluble in cold water, but quite soluble in boiling water, with which it forms a beautiful and nutritious jelly. Tapioca and Apple Pudding.—(1) Put f breakfast-cupful of well-washed pearl tapioca into a double boiler, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and boil well until the liquor is quite transparent. Add a little salt, stir well, and remove the pan from the fire. Pare and core seven or eight apples, fill the cavity with sugar flavoured with lemon-juice, arrange them in a baking-dish, pour the Tapioca over them, Tapioca—continued. and bake until the apples are quite soft. Take out the pudding when done, and serve either hot or cold with cream and sugar-. Pears or quinces may be served in the same way. (2) Core and peel half a dozen large apples, stuff them with sugar flavoured with cinnamon, cover this over with butter, arrange them on a baking-dish, and sprinkle round 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca mixed with sugar to taste, and a flavouring of grated lemon rind. Pour in sufficient water to cover the whole, put the dish in a slow oven, and cook until the pudding is done and both Tapioca and apples are soft. Serve hot. Tapioca Broth.—Put a chicken and a knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a few vegetables previously cooked in white broth, and pour over lgall. of cold water, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil gently until the meat is done. Strain the broth through a cloth into another sauce- pan, remove the fat, and boil up once more; then add as much Tapioca as required, letting it fall into the soup like rain. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook gently for twenty minutes. Thicken if desired with yolks of eggs. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. Tapioca Cream.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of pearl Tapioca into the double boiler, pour over sufficient hot water to cover, and let it remain at the side of the fire or the back of the stove until all the water is absorbed. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and cook gently until the Tapioca is soft and quite transparent. In the meantime, beat the yolks of two eggs in a saucepan, mix in 1 salt- spoonful of salt and J breakfast-cupful of sugar, pour over the boiling Tapioca, and cook for two or three minutes, or until the preparation is quite thick. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Let all cool, flavour to taste, turn it into a dish, and serve. It should not be put into moulds, as it is far better when served quite soft. (2) Put lqt. of white stock into a stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling. Bruise 2oz. of Tapioca in a mortar, stir it gradually into the boiling stock, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire till the Tapioca has dissolved ; then move it to the side, and let it cool a little. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls each of cream and milk, strain them, and stir them in with the Tapioca. Move the stewpan nearer the lire, and stir the contents till the eggs are cooked, but without letting them boil, or they will curdle. Turn the cream into a deep bowl, and serve it while hot. (3) Pound in a mortar 1 heaped table-spoonful of Tapioca, then put it into a lined stewpan with a bay-leaf, two or three pieces of thinly-shred lemon-peel, and 1 pint of milk. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and keep it simmering