494 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Soups—continued. over 4qts. of water, and season with salt. When the liquor boils, stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for an hour. At the end of that time, put in three peeled apples, six peeled artichokes, and one anchovy that has been skinned and washed. Let the Soup simmer for an hour longer, then strain it through a silk sieve into another stewpan; put in with it \ pint of washed pearl-barley, and boil gently till cooked. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a paste with a little cold water, then add it to the Soup, and stir it over the fire till thick. Pot 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar in with the Soup, adding a little boiling milk or broth if it be too thick. Have ready dressed twenty cocks’ combs and a few sprigs of blanched parsley. Put 1 tea- cupful of cream, the cocks’ combs, and parsley into a sc.up- tureen, pour in the boiling Soup, and serve. Vocalist’s Soup.—Wash 3oz. of sago in boiling water and put it into a large saucepan with 2qts. of boiling stock. Boil it very gently for half-an-hour, stirring it occasionally. Beat up the yolks of three eggs together with £ pint of boiling cream, and stir them quickly into the Soup, which must not be allowed to boil again or the eggs will curdle. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Westmoreland Soup.—Put 2qts. of rich clear broth into a stewpan, and when boiling, mix in with it 2 table-spoon- fuls of arrowroot that has been mixed to a paste with a little cold water; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Boil half a calf’s head in a mire- poix, and when it is cooked cut it into small pieces, and put it in with the Soup; add 1 breakfast-cupful of the stock in which the calf’s head was cooked, h breakfast-cupful of Madeira wine, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and boil the Soup up again. Put in a soup-tureen some poached chicken forcemeat quenelles, 1 teacupful of cooked and chopped truffles, and half that quantity of chopped raw gherkins. Pour in the boiling Soup, and serve it. White Soup.—(1) Take the bony end of a knuckle of veal, and chop the bones, breaking them very small; put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of whole pepper, both black and White, slightly bruised, a very little mace, bruised also, a bit of carrot, a bit of turnip, a small onion, and a stick of celery; pour in lqt. of water, and let it boil very gently for three hours. Add boiling water as the liquor reduces to keep the quantity to lqt. When it has boiled for three hours, strain it, thicken with flour and butter, and add to it J pint of cream; add also the crumb of a roll soaked till soft in a little of the Soup and rubbed through a sieve, give it a boil, pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh off the remains of two or three cold boiled fowls, trim off all the fat, cut the meat into small pieces, put it in a mortar with half its bulk of stale breadcrumbs that have been soaked in a small quantity of clear broth, ar.d pound them until quite smooth. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir in a sufficient quantity of clear stock that has been well freed from fat to make the Soup. Leave it on the fire till very hot but not quite boiling, then move it to the side. Beat tire yolks of two eggs together with a teacupful of cream, strain them, and stir them into the Soup. Have ready boiled in separate saucepans, equal quantities of young carrots cut into small squares and green peas. Drain the vegetables, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. Windsor Soup.—Boil three calf’s feet for one hour in 2qts. of broth and lqt. of water; when done and cold, bone and cut them into pieces, moisten with 3 pints of their own broth, adding a bouquet garni, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, \ table-spoonful of salt, and a very little cayenne pepper. Boil again for ten minutes, then strain through a fine sieve ; darken the Soup with a little caramel browning, and when serving add 12 crayfish quenelles. SOUR BEATEF.—The literal meaning of this German dish is a sour bake, roast, or broil. In many parts of Germany it is a national dish, and prepared as follows: Steep a piece of beef in vinegar for two days, turning it occasionally. Wipe the beef, make some holes in it with a skewer, and stick in it some little pieces of bacon that have been rolled in pounded cloves, pepper, and salt. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the beef and brown it on both sides over a brisk fire, dredging it occa- sionally with a little flour. When the beef is well browned, put in with it two carrots cut in quarters, two small sliced onions, two or three bay-leaves, a little lemon-peel, mace, seven or eight peppercorns, a small quantity of salt, and 1 pint of water; put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew slowly for two or three hours. When cooked, take out the meat and unbroken carrots, and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it, thicken it with a little flour, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish round with carrots, pour the gravy over, and serve. SOUR-CROUT (Fr. Choucroute; Ger. Sauerkraut). —This is a variety of pickled cabbage so dear to many of our travelling classes. Cold meat and pickled cabbage are usually considered quite good enough for a wayside luncheon, just as in Germany Sour-crout is esteemed as an appetising accompaniment to plain food. Sour-crout has been pronounced very wholesome by experienced chemists. It may be made and prepared for the table in several ways. Sour-crout, ready made, can be purchased at most Italian warehouses. (1) Finely shred some white-hearted cabbages, put them in a jar, and place over them 1 handful of salt, £ table- spoonful of cream of tartar, and a little water. Put some of the big outside leaves of the cabbage on the top, place a cover on the jar with a weight on it, and keep it in a warm temperature. In a week or two the Sour-crout will be ready for use. (2) Trim off the defective and tough outer leaves of a white cabbage, wash it thoroughly in cold salted water, and shred it finely with a cutter, throwing away the tough stalks. To each peck of cabbage allow 1 pint of salt; wash the outer green leaves of the cabbage in cold salted water and use them to line a wooden tub or firkin; put the cabbage into the firkin in layers with the salt, pressing the layers of cabbage with a potato-masher until all of it is tightly packed down. Put a board over with a heavy stone on it, and let it stand for at least six weeks, when it will be ready for use. (3) Choose large firm heads of white cabbage, cut them into quarters, then slice them into thin strips; wash and drain them dry. Put a layer of this cabbage into a tub, place over it a layer of salt, then a little pounded and sifted coriander-seeds, another layer of cabbage, salt, coriander- seeds, and so on, until the tub is nearly full; then put a weight on the cabbage to press it well, cover with a coarse cloth, and set it in a cool dry place. (4) Cut some white-hearted cabbages into fine shreds, put them in a saucepan with some boiling water, double the quantity of vinegar, some caraway-seeds, and a piece of fat bacon. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till done. Strain the Sour-crout, put it on a hot dish, and serve. (5) Blanch 21b. of Sour-crout in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain it, press the water out, and leave till cold. Put the Sour-crout into a stewpan with lqt. of broth, 1 pint of toppings from the stockpot, and a little pepper. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for eight hours, the stewpan being tightly closed. Turn the Sour- crout into a bowl, and tie the paper over. It is then ready for use. Boiled Sour-crout.—To prepare the Sour-crou-t for boiling, soak it in plenty of cold water until it is only palatably salt; put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water or in the same pot in which bacon, pickled pork, or smoked sausage are boiling, and boil until it is tender.