TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 511 Squirrels—continued. them, let them heat again, see that they are well seasoned, and serve hot. STARCH (Fr. Arnidon ; Ger. Starke ; Ital. Amido; Sp. Aimidon).—Blyth, in his “ Dictionary of Hygiene,” describes Starch as an organic substance occurring in rounded or oval grains in the cellular tissue of certain parts of plants. The seeds of the cerealia contain it in large quantity, and it is also present in great abun- dance in leguminous plants, such as beans, peas, lentils. &c. Wheat contains 75 per cent., and the potato 15 per- cent. of this substance. Starch, as a food, is useful for its carbonaceous properties, hut it does not contain any nitrogen. “ All Starches,” says Blyth, “ have the same nutritive value, hut they differ in digestibility.” The following Starches are well-known to us : arrowroot, barley, maize, potato, rice, rye, sago, tapioca, tous-les-mois, and wheat. See Amydon. STCHI.—A Russian soup very commonly in use amongst all classes. The following is an excellent re- ceipt for its preparation in this country: Put 311). of uncooked brisket of beef cut up into moderate- sized pieces in a stockpot, pour in 4qts. of water, and add a little salt. When the water boils skim it, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Wash and blanch a small cabbage, put it in the liquor with ilb. of streaky bacon, one large carrot, and a piece of celery-root. Let the liquor simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Chop one small onion, put it in a stewpan, and fry it in a little butter till well coloured; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in gradually the broth from the stockpot. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, boil it up again, then move it to the side. Trim the beef and bacon, and cut them into small squares; shred the cabbage, but not too fine, then put all in the soup. In half-an-hour’s time put 1 teaspoonful of chopped fennel in the soup, and a small quantity of pepper; add 1 teacupful of strained sour cream, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. STEAK.-The name is closely allied to stick, the meat being originally broiled on a piece of wood, and latterly on a spit. The oi-igin of the term is probably the Icelandic steikja—to roast, in which case the stick refers to the mode of cooking, and not to the apparatus. Any piece of meat cut as for broiling may he a Steak, even though it be used in a pie or pudding. For special Steaks see special headings. Fig. 657. Steak-tongs. STEAK-TONGS.—A kind of tongs used by cooks for the purposes of grilling or pot-boiling steaks of any kind. As it is important that the steak should be turned frequently, and not pierced by a fork, their use of them is essential to good cooking. There are two kinds specially recommended; those generally employed by most of our professional grill-cooks For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S Steak-Tongs—continued. are joined together by a steel spring (see Fig. 657), and a more ornamental pair (see Fig. 658) for the use of private families. These latter resemble two scooped forks riveted together in the centre of the handles, and fitted just beyond the hinge with an elastic ring. STEAMING.—A mode of cooking that is very suc- cessful in many cases where it is advisable that a food should have the advantages of boiling without coming into contact with water. Potatoes cooked by steaming are Fig. 659. Steamer (Adatus and Son). considered to preserve their flavour better, and for this purpose a saucepan is fitted with a second chamber (see Fig. 659) which fits into the saucepan top. This second chamber, super, or steamer, has a perforated bottom. The saucepan contains the water, and the steamer the article or articles to be steamed. As the water in the under vessel boils the steam enters the upper chamber in a state of condensation and speedily operates upon the articles to Fig. 660. “Rapid” Patent Steamer (S. C. Shewell and Co.). be cooked. In this way a pudding may be boiled in the saucepan and potatoes or other vegetables cooked above. A very ingenious invention (see Fig. 660) by which food can be steamed in an ordinary saucepan consists of a flat cone under which the water boils, and upon which a stand is fixed that supports the food to be steamed out of the water. The term steamed is erroneously applied sometimes to food that is cooked by standing the vessel containing it in hot water. STEINWEIN.—A wine of Rhenish Bavaria. STELVIO.—A Yaltenisse liqueur made in Grosetta. STERLET.—See Sturgeon. STEWING.—The easiest of all processes of cooking, and one that is frequently resorted to by inexperienced cooks, the results being usually satisfactory, so long as care and discretion are shown in the choice of herbs, vegetables, meat, and seasonings. Stewing may be regarded as intermediary between braising and boiling, requiring very little above 170deg. of temperature. This low degree is somewhat difficult to regulate on an open stove; blit by means of a closed kitchen range, or a gas- ?s, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads.