530 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—co ntinued. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then put in loz. of butter that has been rolled in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir it till thick, then add h teacupful of cream. Put the fish on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Sturgeon a la Ude.—Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon, put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt, cover with boiling water, and boil till cooked. Put 1 teacupful of elder vinegar into a saucepan, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of veloute sauce in with the vinegar, and add 1 teaspoonful of caviare. When boiling, move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in Jib. of butter broken into small pieces, and the beaten yolks of six eggs; season with salt and pepper. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Sturgeon Patty.—Oil 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in sufficient dried flour to make a stiff paste, then stir in gradually the beaten yolk of one egg and the strained juice of an orange. Continue stirring the paste until it leaves, the sides of the pan, then spread it out thinly on a dish and set it to cool. Finely chop a piece of cold roasted Sturgeon, moistening it with a few drops of white wine; season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 or 2 table spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and bind the mixture with the beaten yolk of one or two eggs. Butter some small dariole moulds, line them with the paste, half fill each with the mixture, then fill them nearly to the top with scalded cream. Spread layers of the paste over the top, and brush then lightly with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Place tiie moulds on a bed of rice on a baking- sheet, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, place them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sturgeon Rocolnic Soup.—Clean a piece of fresh Sturgeon, blanch it, and put it in a basin with a few slices of carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; season it with salt and pepper, moisten with white wine, and let it soak for a few hours. Line a stewpan with trimmings of ham and vegetables; truss the Sturgeon and put it in, place a few slices of ham and vegetables on the top, moisten to height with broth, and braise it. When cooked, move the Sturgeon away from the fire and leave it in its cooking- liquor until cool. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, fry it until browned, mix in loz. of flour, and fry for a few minutes longer; then stir in gradually 5 pints of stock. Skim the fat off the cook- ing-liquor of the Sturgeon, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and put it in with the stock. Continue stirring the soup over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for an-liour-and-a-half, keeping it well skimmed. Cut a few small salted cucumbers into halves, scoop out the centres, peel them, and cut them into small strips; also cut some parsley-roots into pieces the same size and length. Boil the parsley-roots in salted water until tender, and blanch the strips of cucumber. When ready, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it the pieces of parsley-roots and cucumbers and 1 teacupful of the cucumber-juice, and boil for five minutes. Cut the Sturgeon into small pieces, put them in the soup with 1 teacupful of thick sour cream and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sturgeon Soup with Curry.—Skin 141b. of fresh Sturgeon, wash it, put it in a stewpan with some sliced vegetables and a small quantity of salt and pepper, cover with wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and braise. Finely chop one large onion, one leek, and a piece of celery-root; put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sturgeon into the saucepan containing the minced vegetables, adding also 3qts. of fish broth. Stir the liquor over the fire till boil- ing, then move it to the side and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of curry powder and ground rice into a basin, mix them to a Sturgeon—continued. smooth paste with a little cold broth, stir the mixture into the soup, and stir it gently for half-an-hour. Boil 1 teacupful of well-washed rice. Cut the Sturgeon into small-sized pieces. Skim the fat off the soup, put in the rice and fish, and boil it up again. Thicken the soup with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sterlets.—These are the young of the Sturgeon, and those considered to be available for the kitchen vary in size from 1ft. to 3ft. or 4ft. in length, and may be dressed as follows : Braised Stuffed Sterlet.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, remove all the skin, trim it, sprinkle it well with salt, and let it stand for an hour. Wash off all the salt, stuff it with whiting or other fish forcemeat, wrap it round with slices of fat bacon, tying them on; put it in a braising-pan, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put over it lib. of butter in small pieces, pour over 2qts. of cham- pagne or other wine, add two small hunches of sweet herbs, cover the pan, set it on a rather slow fire with ashes on the lid, and let it cook for two hours and a-quarter, bast- ing it every fifteen minutes with the liquor. Take out the fish if done, remove the bacon, glaze it with fish glaze, return it to the pan, or put it in the oven and let it cook for fifteen minutes. Put the Sterlet on a dish, strain the liquor, add to half of it turtle or Italian sauce to taste, serve this in a sauceboat, and pour the remain- ing half round the fish. Roasted Sterlet.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, carefully raise the skin, and trim the fish. Decorate it with studs of truffles (cloute), making holes to push them in, and tie round slices of fat bacon. Lay two pieces of thick paper one upon the other, and mask over the top sheet with very thick mirepoix; push a small spit through the fish from end to end, and lay it on top of the mirepoix. Pull up the sides of tlie first sheet of paper so as to cover the fish with the mirepoix, then lift up the bottom sheet, fastening them round with thread; wrap round the top of the fish two more sheets of paper, securing them in the same way. Place the fish along a large spit, securing it by tying both ends of the small spit to the large spit, and roast before a clear gentle fire for about two hours, basting frequently. Remove the coverings of paper and bacon as well as every particle of the mirepoix, and place the Sturgeon on a dish. Ornament it with attelettes garnished with fish quenelles breaded and fried, and truffles cooked in Madeira wine. Prepare a sauce by stewing the trimmings of the Sterlet with a little water and Madeira wine, mixing in a little butter and fish glaze. In this stew lib. of truffles cut with a vegetal)le-cutter into small cylinders, place the Fig. 690. Roasted sterlet. truffles round the fish, together with any other desirable garnish, such as cravfish-tails and fish quenelles (see Fig. 690), pour part of the sauce over, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sterlet a l’Imperiale.—Clean and wash a Sterlet, and cut oft a part of the flesh from the belly so that when cooked it will remain in an upright position on the dish. Tie or sew it up, put it on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix moistened with 1 pint each of hock and Madeiia and 2 pints or so of consomme or fish stock; put a piece of buttered paper over the fish, and boil slowly for an hour. Let it cool in the liquor, take it out, remove the skin