499 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. l) 2 K Spice—continued. settled at the bottom, leaving it clear and bright. Strain it carefully off into another bottle, and keep it tightly corked till required for use. This also makes an excellent flavouring for gruel. French Sausage Spice.—Mix together in a mortar 5lb. of ground black pepper, 2Jlb. of ground ginger, lib. each of ground cloves and nutmegs, and Jib. each of ground aniseed and coriander seeds. Preserve in a stoppered bottle. French Spice.—Mix together Joz. each of thyme and bay- leaves, and Joz. each of marjoram and rosemary; place the herbs on a sheet of paper, and put them in a slow oven. When very dry, put the herbs in a mortar with loz. eacli of nutmeg and cloves, Joz. of peppercorns, and Joz. of cayenne pepper, and pound until very line, then sift them through a tine hair sieve. Put the Spice into bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Kitchen Spice.—Mix together 21b. of ground black pepper, lib. of ground ginger, 4oz. each of ground cinnamon, allspice, and nutmegs, Joz. of ground cloves, and 31b. of salt. This is very useful for seasoning sauces, soups, and gravies, and should be preserved in a stoppered bottle. Illixed Spice.—Pound 2oz. each of allspice, cloves, and cinna mon, Joz. each of nutmeg and ginger, anil 2oz. of coriander- seeds. When they are well powdered they must be kept in a well stoppered bottle. Ragoht Spice (Kitchener's).—Rub together in a mortar lib. of salt, Jib. each of ground mustard, ground black peppier, and grated lemon peel, loz. each of ground all- spice and ginger, 2oz. of cayenne pepper, and Joz. of grated nutmeg. Preserve in a stoppered bottle. Savoury Spice (Kidder’s).—Mix together equal parts of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, all finely ground beforehand. Put in a stoppered bottle. Spice Cakes.—(1) Put 1 Jib. of flour in a basin, and rub in lib. of butter with the hands until smooth; mix in lib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of moist sugar, J table-spoonful of pounded Spice, J table-spoonful of yeast that has been dissolved in a little warm water, the beaten yolks of two, and the white of one egg, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the ingredients until well incorporated, and stand the mixture close to the tire where it will rise for half-an- hour. Divide the cake mixture into small portions, mould these into nice-shaped cakes, put them on baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven. Leave the cakes until cold, then pile them on a dish, and serve. (2) Take one egg, § breakfast-cupful of molasses, § break- fast-cupful of sugar, § breakfast-cupful of butter warmed to melting, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 2J breakfast cupfuls of flour, 1 heaped teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 even teaspoonful of crenn of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of mixed Spice, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Mix in the order given, and bake in small tins. A table spoonful of lemon juice may be substituted for the vinegar and Spice. Spice Conserve (Indian).—Put five or six blanched sweet almonds into a mortar together with a few cobnuts, about lib. of shelled monkey-nuts (sometimes called ground nuts), and two dozen peeled and blanched walnuts, and pound them coarsely. Prepare a syrup by boiling ljlb. of moist sugar with J pint of water, strain it into another saucepan, put in the nuts, season with about Joz. each of black pepper, cinnamon, cloves, and ginger all ground, and about Joz. of ground allspice ; set the saucepan on the fire, and boil the contents for thirty minutes, stirring continually. Add two large hard biscuits broken up very small, boil for fifteen minutes longer, turn the mixture into small cups or glasses, and let it get cold. Dust over powdered cinnamon to taste, and serve. Spice Lozenges.—Clarify 31b. of loaf sugar, boil it to the degree of heat at which if the finger be dipped in cold water then into the boiling sugar, and instantly into the cold water again, the sugar will roll in a ball from the finger in the water and if bitten will stick to the teeth (see Sugar-boiling). When the sugar is boiled to this degree,add to it loz. of finely-powdered cloves, loz. of powdered Spic e—continued. cinnamon, Jib. each of candied orange-peel and candied lemon-peel chopped fine (or, if preferred, Jib. of pistachio- nuts blanched may be substituted for the candied lemon- peel). Stir these gently into the sugar, and continue to boil till it is at the degree when if a skimmerful of sugar be taken up and the skimmer given one good shake large sparks of sugar will fly from it (see Sugar-boiling). When it has boiled to this degree beat it up and pour it Jin. thick into paper cases. While it is still warm, mark it into lozenges with a fork, and afterwards deepen some of these lines with the point of a knife. When quite cold, take them out of the cases and break them apart at the deepened lines. Keep them in a warm dry place. Spice Nuts.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter until smooth into 1 Jib. of flour; mix in Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel, 1 table-spoonful of powdered allspice, J table-spoonful of powdered ginger, Joz. of caraway-seeds, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Mix these ingre- dients, work in gradually 1 Jib. of treacle in which has been mixed Joz. of pearl ash and Joz. of alum, and work the whole to a smooth paste. Lay a sheet of white paper over Fig. 634. Spice Nuts. a baking-slab, drop the mixture on it in small quantities, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cold, pack the nuts (see Fig. 634) in biscuit-tins till required for use. (2) Put four eggs in a basin with lib. of moist sugar, Joz. of powdered cinnamon, the finely-shred peel of one lemon, anil a small quantity of powdered cloves. Beat the mixture for about twenty minutes, then mix in gradually lib. of finely-sifted flour and 2oz. of chopped mixed candied peel. Butter a baking-sheet, drop the mixture on it in small quantities, brush them over with milk, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the nuts are cooked, take them off the tin, lay them on a dish, bottom side upwards, and leave them until cold. Spiced Salt.—Put in a mortar 4oz. of common salt, 2oz. of celery-salt, loz. each of white pepper and ground thyme, loz. each of marjoram and summer savory, Joz. of sage, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and J teaspoonful each of cloves, mace, and allspice. Pound all these ingredients together, then sift them through a very fine wire sieve. Keep the 8pice closely covered in jars. Sweet Spice (Kidder's).—Mix together equal parts of cinnamon, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and white sugar, all previously ground. Preserve for use in stoppered bottles. SPICED APPLES.—See Apples. SPICED BEEF.—See Beef. SPICED LOAF.—A North Britain cake made of bread dough, with a very large proportion of mixed spice, and a little sugar. SPIGOLA.—A famous fish of Italy, a species of bar, held in great esteem. It is caught amongst.the rocks along the shores, and sometimes weighs 201b. or more. The flesh is very white and delicate. The Spigola is cooked in a variety of ways, according to its size. The following is an excellent receipt given by Dubois : Spigola of Rome with Oyster Sauce.—Prepare the fish, and boil it in court bouillon; prepare as for garnish some truffles, quenelles, and mushrooms. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, lay it on a hot dish, garnish it on both sides with the truffles, quenelles, and mushrooms, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads.