652 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued: set, dip the upper side lightly into the chopped parsley, then into the beetroot. Arrange them on a dish, the parsley side upwards, against a pile of shred lettuces, garnish with small neat sprays of watercress and chopped aspic (see Fig. 899), and serve. Minced Turkey with. Poached Egg's.—Singe and draw a Turkey weighing about 81b., boil it gently till cooked, then drain it and leave it till cooled. Cut all the flesh off the bones, chop it finely, and mix with it 2 breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumb. Put the bones and trimmings of the Turkey into a saucepan with an onion and 3qts. of clear broth, boil the liquid quickly till re- duced to half its former quantity, and then strain it. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with ] table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned; then stir in gradually the strained broth, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then put in the minced Turkey and breadcrumbs, and continue stirring till all is hot through. Take the mince up in breakfast-cup- fuls, flatten it, turn it out on to a hot dish, put a poached egg on each mound, and serve. Paupiettes of Turkey.—Skin and bone the pinions of a Turkey, and remove the two fillets; cut the flesh into slices, beat them lightly, and trim them to a square shape. Lard the meat at one end and on one side only with thin strips of bacon, and coat the other side with a thin layer of forcemeat and fine herbs. Roll the pieces of Turkey into the shape of paupiettes, keeping the forcemeat inside, and tie them round with twine. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the paupiettes with some vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in clarified broth to half their height, and cover with slices of bacon. Boil the liquid till reduced to half its original quantity, then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and cook the contents for fifteen minutes longer. Take the bacon out of the stewpan, put some more hot ashes on the lid, and braise the paupiettes. When glazed, trim the paupiettes evenly at both ends, and put them into another stewpan. Mix with the cooking-liquor an equal quantity of white wine, boil and strain it, skim off the fat, and mix with the liquor a few trimmings of truffles and H breakfast-cupfuls of reduced veloute sauce. Boil the sauce quickly till sufficiently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Make some forcemeat with the trimmings of the fillets, mould it into quenelles, and poach them in salted water. Chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with a little melted fat and 14oz. of well washed and drained rice, and stir it over the fire for eight or ten minutes; then pour in plenty of broth, and cook the rice till soft. When cooked, mix some finely-shred cooked truffles with the rice, Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese, 5oz. of butter, and \ teacupful of tomato sauce. Prepare a paste croustade, fix it on a hot dish, fill it with the rice mixture, arrange the paupiettes in an upright circle on the top, fill the hollow with rice, stand the quenelles in an up- right position all round it, and put a large truffle in the centre, with a smaller one on each side of the paupiettes. Brush the quenelles over with some of the sauce, and serve with the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. Potted Turkey.—Draw and singe a Turkey, and bone it. Cut the flesh off the thighs, trim off' all the sinews, and chop it finely. Chop lib. of fat bacon and i-lb. of lean veal, mix them with the chopped Turkey-flesh, season with salt and spices, and pound the whole in a mortar. Lard the breast of the Turkey with the seasoned strips of fat bacon. Put a layer of the pounded mixture or forcemeat at the bottom of a potting-jar. Spread out the Turkey, skin downwards, dust it over with spices and salt, cover the inside with a layer of forcemeat, roll the bird up, put it in the jar, spread the remaining forcemeat over it, put some thin rashers of fat bacon and a bay- leaf on the top, and place the cover on the jar. Stand the jar in a large stewpan, pour in water to about a third of its height, put the stewpan in the oven, and cook the Turkey for about three hours. When cooked, take the jar out of the oven, leave it till cold, then cover the con- Turkeys—continued. tents with a layer of poultry-dripping. The Turkey should not be served till two days after it has been potted. Pulled Turkey.—(1) Pull the meat from the breast of a cold Turkey with a fork, put the meat in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy and 2 table spoonfuls of cream, add a piece of butter, dredge in a little flour, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and stir the mixture over the fire till hot. Turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Steep a blade of mace in gills of milk. Take the remains of a boiled or roasted Turkey that has a leg left on it, cut the leg off, and lay it aside. Pull the white meat from the bones with a fork, so that it conies away in fine strips. Take the mace from the milk in which it has been steeping, put the milk in a saucepan, mix smoothly into it 1 dessert spoonful of flour, stir it till it boils, and let it boil for ten minutes; put the strips of white meat into this, and place it where it will keep hot, but do not let it boil after the meat is put in. Joint and grill the leg, put it on a hot dish, pour over it the contents of the saucepan, and garnish with little rolls of toasted bacon. Roasted Turkey.—(1) Remove all feathers from the Turkey, singe it, and wipe it all over with a wet towel. Lay the bird on its breast, and cut down the middle of its back in a straight line; then, cutting from the neck downwards, and keeping the knife-blade close to the carcase, find the joints which unite the wings to the body, and disjoint them, leaving the bones in the legs. Free the carcase of the Turkey entirely from the flesh, taking care not to cut through the outer skin of the bird, especially along the front of the breast-bone. When all the flesh has been taken from the bones in this way, lay it skin downwards upon the table, and season it with salt and pepper. Remove the gall from the liver, and place the liver on the skin of the neck, from which the crop has been re- moved. Lay some oyster forcemeat on the flesh of the bird, draw the skin together at the back, and sew it with large stitches, taking care that enough forcemeat is used to well fill the body of the Turkey. Truss the bird, with skewers or string, so that its original shape is restored, tie a large thin slice of fat salted pork over the breast, and roast it before an open fire, or bake it in a hot oven (about twenty minutes to lib.), basting every fifteen minutes with the drippings, and seasoning it when browned. If a frothed surface be desired, dredge the Turkey with flour before basting it. When it is done, remove the skewers or strings which hold it in shape, and serve it with gravy made from the drippings in the pan ; the giblets should be boiled till tender, then chopped and added to the gravy. Serve celery with the Turkey. (2) Singe and draw the bird, leaving the skin of the crop long enough to turn over the back. Stuff it with veal stuffing or sausage-meat, and fasten the skin of the neck over the back with a skewer; then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh, through the body, passing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Clean the gizzard and liver, and tuck them between the pinions, turning the points of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it firmly. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix the bird on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently with butter. When the Turkey is nearly done, remove the paper from the breast, dust it over with flour, and baste it with butter till brown. Divide some sausage-