592 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Toad-in-the-Hole—continued. of any kind of finely chopped tinned meat, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until thoroughly hot. When the batter is cooked, take the jar out of the hole, and pour the meat mixture in its place. Serve while hot. TOAST.—See Bread. TOAST-RACK.—A small rack or stand (see Fig. 790) for the table, having partitions, between which slices of toast are placed in such a manner that their surfaces are sufficiently far from each other to prevent one slice from being affected by the steam of another. TOASTS.—A variety of savoury meats spread or laid upon pieces of toasted bread. Several of these are des- cribed under special head- ings, such as Anchovies, Apricots, &c. TOASTS and TOAST- MASTERS.—The custom of drinking to healths and Fig. 790. Toast-Rack (Adams anti Son). success to undertakings at banquets dates back in this country to the invasion of the Romans, they bringing these customs with them. The seed fell upon very fertile soil, and the more refined art of “ toasting ” followed the rude Saxon “ Waes had,” or Wassail, which consisted generally of bands of merry- makers carrying about with them a huge bowl of a drink comprising ale, spices, apples, honey, and other ingre- dients, their object being to compel all with whom they had even a passing acquaintance to drink of it, they shouting loudly the while “Waes hael.” See Wassail. The Greeks and Romans drank to their friends’ healths and enterprises, and had a trick of “ toasting ” an honoured guest as many times as he had letters in his name and title. This would naturally admit of some con- siderable latitude, and require much restriction in the case of royal or noble guests in the present day. A writer on “ Drinks and Drinking Customs” says: “ Then the guests round would drink to the gods and goddesses, each individually, and without counting any but those in the top class, such as Jupiter and his wife, Pluto and his wife, Mars and Venus, Mercury, Bacchus, Ceres, Diana, Flora, and a hundred or so more; and then they ‘ toasted ’ the less-honom-ed guests and themselves, so that it is not surprising that they managed to consume a matter of 600 glasses or so at one sitting. The Romans introduced the practice to their British entertainers, who were not slow to take up the trick, and thus it was common to hear all round the salutation ‘ bene mild,’ or ‘ bene vobis,’ and a variety of other genial exclamations which favoured the drinking of just another glass.” Toastmasters were introduced by the Romans, and a very great honour it was considered to hold the post; so much so, indeed, that the guests threw with dice for the honour of regulating the Toasts as arbiter bibendi (Ruler of the Drinking). The post of Toastmaster is considered one of great importance, if not honour, in these days, especially that of Toastmaster to royalty on State occasions, and to the Lord Mayor of London. The duties consist chiefly of arranging the Toasts to be drunk, and announcing them in due order, together with the person called upon to respond. Happily the custom is dying out, so also is that of guests drinking to the host or hostess, and to each other. The word “ Toast ” appears to have originated from a practice of putting bits of toast in the wine, the guest partaking of such a sippet with the draught of wine as soon as the felicitation had passed the lips. From this the subject of the Toast took the name, as we find in Fielding’s “Tom Jones”: “It now came to the time of Toasts and Toastmasters—continued. Mr. Jones to give a Toast .... who could not refrain from mentioning his dear Sophia.” Toasts may be divided into two classes, those that are permanent or standing Toasts, and those that suit the occasion. The Greeks and Romans had standing Toasts, which were Jupiter, Caesar, and the Graces; the toasting of the Graces being a tribute to the fair sex, and answer- ing to our “ The Ladies.” The British standing Toasts are “The Queen and Royal Family,” “The Houses of Parliament,” and “The Army, Navy, and Volunteers;” whilst “ Our Guests,” “ Absent Friends,” and some others of a similar character may be regarded as incidental. A very solemn Toast in military and naval circles is to the well-being of those brave fellows who have fallen in battle; a very ancient Toast, and one practised by the Romans, who drank to it out of golden cups used only for this purpose. See Loving-Cups. TODDY.—A term supposed to be slang, given to a mixture of spirit and hot water. It differs from grog in having a less proportion of spirit. The term is a corruption of todc, the juice of certain palms, extracted for the purpose of converting it into a spirituous liquor. TOFFY.—Sometimes spelled Taffy or Toffee. A popular English sweetmeat that requires little or no des- cription, being sufficiently familiar to us from babyhood. The origin of the term seems to be doubtful, but is probably a corruption of tafia, a variety of rum made from molasses, as Toffy was originally made from treacle, and perhaps flavoured with rum. The following receipts give a useful variety : (1) Put 111), of crushed loaf sugar into a brass pan with d pint of water, and place it over the fire; warm £lb. of butter, beat it until creamy, and when the sugar has dis- solved mix it in. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiled to the right degree, which may be known by pour- ing a little on a buttered plate; just before moving the Toffy off the fire, mix in a few drops of essence of lemon. Butter a shallow tin dish, pour in the Toffy, and set it away to cool. When about half cold, mark the Toffy across in squares (see Fig. 791), which may he easily broken asunder when it is quite cold. (2) Put ilb. of butter into a saucepan with Hlb. of Demerara sugar and i teacupful of water. Stir the whole over the fire for twenty minutes or half an hour; just before moving the Toffy from the fire, add a few drops of essence of lemon. Try the Toffy by dropping a small Fig. 791. Toffy. quantity of it occasionally into a cup of cold water. When it snaps it is ready; remove it at once from the fire or it will spoil, and pour it into a well buttered shallow tin dish. When somewhat cooled, mark the Toffy across with a knife in any shape desired: when quite cold, take it out of the tin and break it asunder where marked. Butterscotch.- This is made according to the receipts given for Everton Toffy, the difference being that butterscotch is divided into small equal sized pieces, wrapped in tin- foil, and packed in boxes. Doncaster butterscotch is made chiefly according to the receipts numbered 1 and 4. Everton Toffy.—(1) Warm and beat to a cream 3oz. of butter; dissolve 31b. of loaf sugar in H teacupfuls of water