602 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes« UtensilSy Sauves, tfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. quantity of water, and boil until they will niasli to a pulp. Rub them through a fine hair sieve, weigh the pulp, and for each pound allow fib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar. Put pulp and sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil it gently for one hour. For each pound of pulp, mix with it before boiling hoz. of ground ginger. When ready, turn the preserve into small jars, leave it until cold, then put a brandied paper in each, cover with parchment, and tie down. This preserve is a very good accompaniment for roast mutton. Tomato Jelly.—(1) Soak 2oz. of gelatine, then put it into a stewpan with 1A pints of Tomato-juice, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, A teaspoonful of citric acid, A saltspoonful each of powdered mace and nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse a fluted mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and put it away in a cool place. When the jelly has quite set, it may be turned out of the mould and served. (2) Take a couple of quarts of Tomatoes, put them into a saucepan on the fire, and let them simmer, adding salt and pepper according to taste, till they become a perfectly soft pulp; strain this pulp through a tine sieve or coarse jelly- bag. Add white sugar in the proportion of 1 breakfast-cupful j of sugar to 4 breakfast-cupfuls of the strained Tomatoes, and allow to eacli break fast-cupful of sugar 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour mixed in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Put all these in a saucepan on the fire together, and keep stirring till it boils, and a'hnv it to boil for one minute. It is good served with annost any roasted or baked meat. (3) Procure the required quantity of ripe Tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and put them in a preserving-pan with just sufficient water to prevent their sticking to the bottom and burning. Let them simmer gently until very tender, then turn the whole into a jelly-bag, and let the juice run slowly through with a basin underneath to catch it. Measure the juice, and for each pint allow lib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar; put them together in a preserving-pan, colour with a few drops of cochineal, and boil quickly until reduced to a thick jelly, keeping it well skimmed. When ready, turn the jelly into small jars, and leave it until the following day; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie them down, and pack them away in a cool, dry store- cupboard. Tomato Ketchup.—(1) Cut some Tomatoes into slices, put them in a deep earthenware pan in layers, sprinkle each layer with salt, and let them remain in the salt for twelve hours. Put them over the fire in a preserving- kettle, and let them boil till they are quite soft; then strain and squeeze the juice from them in a thin linen cloth. Put the strained juice over the fire with grated horse-radish, garlic, cloves, and mace to taste, and let it boil fast for half-an-hour. Take it from the fire, let it get cold, and then bottle it, corking the bottles well and dividing the spice equally among the bottles. The addition of a little salicylic acid will effectually prevent ferinenta- tio l and mould. Eight grains stirred in after or while boiling will be sufficient for lqt. A piece of blotting- paper made to fit tightly over the ketchup, saturated with a concentrated solution of salicylic acid in alcohol, brandy, or rum, placed on the top of the ketchup, will assist in keeping it good. The acid is perfectly harmless, with no taste or smell, and can lie obtained in powder or crystals, the latter being preferred. Care must be taken when this is employed never to use tin or metallic vessels, as when it comes in contact with metal it turns dark. Porcelain- lined vessels are best to use. (2) Well wash the required quantity of Tomatoes with- out skinning them, cook them for half-an-hour, and rub them through a fine sieve. To each quart of pulp add 1 tab,e-spoonful each of ground mustard, black pepper, and cinnamon, A teaspoonful of cayenne, half a grated nutmeg, and A teacupful of salt. Boil these together for two hours, stirring constantly to prevent burning ; then to each quart of the mixture add 1 pint of cider vinegar, and boil for thirty minutes longer. Pour the ketchup hot into bottles and seal them. Tomatoes—continued. (3) Cut into halves'a peck of Tomatoes, and boil them in a porcelain-lined pan till dissolved to a pulp; strain, and press them through a sieve into a saucepan, and place it on the fire to boil, adding loz. each of salt and ground mace, 1 table-spoonful of black pepper, 1 teaspoonful each of cayenne and ground cloves, and loz. of ground mustard. Boil slowly for five hours, stirring constantly to prevent burning; remove it from the fire, and set it in a cool place for five or six hours. Stir in lqt. of Rhine wine or 1 pint of wine vinegar, put it into bottles, cork them down, and keep in a cool place until wanted. (4) Cut into halves \ bushel of ripe Tomatoes, put them in a saucepan, and boil until the pulp has boiled two-thirds away; add loz. each of ground cloves, mace, and ginger, half the quantity of cayenne, and A teacupful of salt, and boil for twenty minutes longer, stirring constantly. Pour the ketchup into bottles, seal them, and use as required. (5) Take the required number of Tomatoes when fully ripe, and bake them in a jar till tender; strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice add 1 pint of vinegar, Aoz. of garlic sliced, and loz. each of salt and white pepper finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it again through the sieve, and to every pound add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistency of cream. When cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over the mouths of the bottles, and keep in a cool, dry place. (6) Scald and peel 1 peck of Tomatoes and two onions, boil them with 1 pint of vinegar in a preserving-kettle until they are tender enough to rub through a sieve with a masher, then add to them 1 breakfast-cupful of salt, 1 teacupful of mustard mixed with the same quantity of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of powdered cloves, mace, allspice, and black pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Boil all these ingredients together again for an hour, and then put the hot ketchup into bottles heated in hot water; cork and seal the bottles while hot. (7) Put 4 peck or so of ripe Tomatoes into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them well for about one hour, stirring frequently so that they will not adhere to the bottom. Turn tire whole out on to a tray, let them cool, and rub them through a fine sieve, taking care not to let any seeds or skins pass through. Measure the pulp, put it back in the saucepan, and boil until it is quite thick; add to every 5 pints 1 table-spoonful each of grated horseradish, crushed mustard, celery-seeds, and black pepper, a little well-beaten ginger and garlic, half a grated nutmeg, two finely minced onions, and sugar and salt to taste. Stir well, boil for a few minutes, add lqt. of cider, boil up once more, let the liquor cool, pour it into bottles, cork and seal them up, and keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. It will keep good for a long time. (8) Rub several pounds of Tomatoes through a fine sieve, but prevent the skins or seeds going through; put the liquor into a flannel or cotton bag, and let it strain into a basin. Add sufficient vinegar to make the liquor thin, a little seasoning of garlic, allspice, salt, and pepper, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and the ketchup is then ready for use. (9) Sweet.—Put 41b. of sugar into a copper pan with 2qts. of water, and boil it to the ball degree (see Sugar- boiling). Pour it into a pan over 4galls. of Tomato ketchup, stir well over the fire until thoroughly incorpora- ted, remove from the fire, pour it into earthenware or wooden vessels, let it cool, pour it into bottles, and cork closely. It is then ready for use. Tomatoes with Macaroni.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Tomatoes, peeled and cut in pieces, into a saucepan, and cook slowly until they are reduced to half the quantity, and are quite thick. ‘ Put 4oz. of macaroni, broken into 3in. lengths, into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for twenty minutes. Take it out, drain it, put it into a baking dish, and mix in the Tomatoes loz. of grated cheese, 1 teacupful of brown gravy, and salt and pepper to taste. A little butter may also be added if desired. Simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve. Caro