441 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. Let it boil slowly five or six hours, then strain it into a basin, pressing all the gravy out of the meat, ami put it away till quite cold. Rub the vegetables through a coarse sieve and put them away. When the tongue and brains have been sufficiently boiled, chop them fine, and mix them into a paste with an equal quantity of bread- crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Roll this paste into balls, and dip them in flour. Lay them on a tin, being careful not to let them touch each other, bake them in a quick oven till a crust is formed on the tops, then take them out and let them cool. Put the cold broth (first skimming the fat off) into a saucepan with the vegetables and boil up quickly; take off any scum that rises, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, thickened with cornflour, and let it simmer for two or three minutes after it boils, stir- ring all the time. Lay the forcemeat balls in a soup tureen, and pour the soup very gently over them, taking care not to break them. Sheep’s Hearts. — Before cooking, these must be trimmed of all tough parts and large tubes, and then thoroughly washed, and all the blood contained in the cavities disgorged. It is advisable to let them soak some hours in cold salted water. Baked Sheep’s Hearts.—Put the hearts in a saucepan , of boiling water for five minutes, then drain them. Pre- pare a sufficient quantity of stuffing for the hearts with grated breadcrumbs and chopped suet, seasoning to taste with sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the hearts, secure them with small skewers to prevent the stuffing coming out, lay them on a baking-dish, and bake them for an hour in a good oven, keeping them well basted with butter. Cut as many slices of bread as there are hearts, about Jin. thick, and trim them to a round shape, removing all the crusts, and toast them a nice brown on both sides. When the hearts are cooked, put them on a hot dish -with a round of toast under each, pour a rich brown gravy round them, and serve while very hot. Boasted Sheep’s Hearts.—(1) Mix a table-spoonful each of finely-chopped suet and finely-chopped fat bacon with a teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and bind it with beaten yolk of egg. This quantity is for each heart. Stuff the hearts, sew up with thread, and fix on a spit. Roast in front of a clear fire, Fig. 562. Roasted Sheep’s Hearts. keeping them continually basted. When cooked, place the hearts on a hot dish, garnish it with potato croquettes (see Fig. 562), and serve red currant jelly in a glass dish separately, with a sauceboatful of clear rich gravy. (2) Wash the hearts and stuff them with sage and onion stuffing, tie a piece of white paper round the tops of each to keep the stuffing in, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them frequently. When they are cooked, take the papers off to finish browning them at the top, put them on a hot dish, pour over a brown gravy, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Hearts.—Wash and dry the required quantity of Sheep’s Hearts, make a stuffing with sifted breadcrumbs, two-thirds of the quantity of beef-suet, a table-spoonful of flour, a little chopped parsley and sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, and a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Stuff the hearts with this mixture, dip them in milk, roll them in flour, and put them broad end downwards in a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown all over; then pour in 1 pint of stock, and simmer till the hearts are tender, which will take Sheep—continued. about one-hour-and-a-half. Take the hearts out, drain, and put them on a dish, keeping them hot while the gravy is prepared. Skim the fat off the gravy, thicken it with a small quantity of flour, mix with it 1 wineglassful of claret and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, pour it over the hearts, and serve them with currant jelly. Sheep’s Kidneys.—These are par excellence the only kidneys, excepting lambs’ kidneys, which are of much culinary value. Unfortunately, a single sheep lias but two, hence they are exceedingly scarce; but from America and New Zealand, where Sheep’s Kidneys appear to be more plentiful and not so much in demand, we have sent to us kidneys preserved in tins. It need scarcely be observed that they are only fit for stewing, and not very good at that. They are best freshly cut out of the animal. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys.—Take some Sheep’s Kidneys, trim them carefully, and lay them in a little warm, not hot, butter, rolling them over and over in it for ten minutes. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear hot fire, turning them constantly. If small, they will not take much more than ten minutes to cook. When done, lay them on a hot Fig. 563. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys. dish, round a pile of browned mashed potatoes (see Fig 563), dust a little salt and pepper over them, put a little bit of butter on each, and serve very hot. These may be served without the potatoes. Broiled Sheep’s Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Put some Sheep’s Kidneys in boiling water to soak for a few minutes, take them out, dry, skin, and cut them down the centre. Fasten them open with skewers, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, dip them into warmed butter, place them on a gridiron with the opened side down, and broil them thoroughly. Place them on a dish with a mixture of minced parsley, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and maitre-d'hotel butter in the centre of each, and serve A ery hot. (2) Wash the kidneys, peel off the outer skin, and split them open down the back, but without quite cutting them through; dip them in warmed butter, then roll them in grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating, and pass a skewer through each side of the kidneys. Lay them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. Put 2oz. of butter on a plate, with 1 scant table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, and work the butter well with the point of a knife. Make two or three slices of toast, trim away the crusts, butter them well, and lay them flat on a hot dish. When the kidneys are cooked, lay them on the toast, season with a small quantity of salt and pepper, spread the maitre-d’hotel butter over them, and serve. Curried Sheep’s Kidneys.—Put 1 wineglassful of rich gravy or brown sauce into a saucepan with 1 table-spoon- ful of butter well kneaded with curry powder, and boil until it is rather thick. In the meantime, cut two or three onions in rings, fry them over a moderate fire to colour them slightly, sprinkle them over with a little salt, and drain them. Put a dozen Sheep’s Kidneys, skinned and minced very fine, in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until done. Put them on a strainer to remove all the fat, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and decorate witli the ringsi of fried onions and potato croquettes. Fried Sheep’s Kidneys.—(1) Take three large Sheep’s Kidneys, skin them, cut them crosswise into slices about