618 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. with 1 teacupful of cream, the juice of two lemons, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; turn this into a saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon over a slow tire till thick, with- out letting it boil. Mix the sauce slowly into the soup, stirring it vigorously at the same time, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. TRIPLET AIL.—An edible fish (Lobotes surina- mensis) found in the sea water of most warm climates, especially on the southern and middle coasts of the United States. Locally this fish is known as the grouper. The flesh is delicate and sweet, the body being a very deep, silvery grey when alive, and blackish grey when dead. When full grown it is about twenty inches long, weighing from twelve to fourteen pounds, and can be cooked like perch. TRITURATE.—To grind to a fine powder. The term is not often used in cookery. TRIVET.—A tin •ee-legged stool, table, or other sup- port, used for holding a kettle or any other vessel near the fire. TROIS-SIX.—The name given to a French spirit, which is supposed to form three-sixths of the whole of the ordinary spirit made in France. TROTTERS.—See Sheep’s Feet. TROUGHS.—Vessels so called are used chiefly in bakeries for mixing dough. See Bread. TROUT. (Fr. Truites; Ger. Forellen; Ital. Trote; Sp. Truchas).—Next to the salmon the Trout ranks highest as a game fish. It belongs to the salmon tribe, and the salmon-trout or sea-trout (Salmo trutta) can only be distinguished from the salmon by the formation Fig. 827. Bull Trout. of the gill cover and the teeth, which are slighter and more numerous than those of the salmon. The Bull or Grey Trout (see Fig. 827) (S. eriox) is distinguishable from the Salmon-Trout by its teeth being larger and stronger. It frequently weighs about 161b., and its flesh is paler and not so delicately flavoured as that of the Salmon- Fig. 828. Great Grey Trout. Trout. The Great Grey or Lake Trout (S.ferox), chiefly caught in Loch Leven (see Fig. 828), grows to a great size, and is nearly equal to the salmon in flavour. The American Brook Trout (see Fig. 829) is a very fine variety, resembling in many respects our common Trout, which is caught in all our lakes and rivers. It weighs from about Ub. to 51b., and even in rare cases up to 91b. Trout—continued. The ordinary length of a large fish would be from 18in. to 20in. Walsh tells us that the Trout “resembles the salmon in all its habits, excepting only its migrations to the sea; it is in full season from March to July, but the time varies in different rivers so much that it is impossible to lay down an invariable rule.” Fig. 829. American Brook Trout. When in high condition, during the height of summer, they present, besides the usual appearance of freshness in the eyes and gills, a silvery hue in the skin; while the flesh, when dressed, cuts into flakes of a tinge approaching to pink or salmon colour, as it is called. All Trout should be cleaned and cooked as soon as pos- sible after catching, as in consequence of the extreme delicacy of the flesh, it soon deteriorates after death. The following receipts apply equally to all kinds of Trout, and have been contributed by some of the most famous chefs of our time: Aspic of Trout.—Clean a good-sized fresh Trout, draw it by the gills, wipe it inwardly, stuff it with fish forcemeat, and truss the head. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient court-bouillon to cover it, and boil until it is done. Have ready a piece of fried bread or pain-vert, of an oval form and the length of the fish, and place it on a dish of the same shape. Let the Trout get cold, draining it on a sieve, and wipe it well with a cloth; cover over the pain-vert with paper, place the fish on the top, supporting it with butter, glaze it with half-set aspic jelly, surround it with chopped jelly, and decorate the edge of the pain-vert with croutons of jelly. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with halves of hard-boiled eggs, intermixed with small lettuces cut in halves, and serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauceboat. Baked Trout.—(1) Scrape and clean about 201b. of Trout, draw them through the gills, wash them well, and wipe them inwardly. Stuff them with forcemeat, put them into a baking-pan over 4lb. of melted butter, cover over with a few chopped mushrooms or a little mushroom liquor, and with slices of pork, and sprinkle over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, a can of mushrooms without any liquor, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour over about £ pint of stock, set the pan in the oven, and bake for about half-an-hour, basting frequently with the liquor in the pan. Take them out when done, place them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of potatoes. (2) Scale and clean a Trout, draw it by the gills, and wipe it inwardly with a cloth. Work a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt into a small piece of butter, stuff the fish with it, put it into a well-buttered baking-disli, dredge over with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake for about half-an-hour in a moderate oven. The time for baking will vary accord- ing to the size of the fish. Take it out, place it care- fully on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (3) Clean, wash, and dry six Trout, weighing jib. each, put them on a buttpred dish, adding \ wineglass- ful of white wine, and one finely-chopped shallot, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Pour the liquor into a saucepan, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of cooked herbs, moistening with \ pint of German sauce. Reduce to one- half the quantity, pour it over the Trout placed on