549 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. Sweetbreads en Coquilles.—Cut four blanched Sweetbreads into small slices, and stew them in a saucepan with Aoz. of butter, A- wineglassful of white wine, and 3 table-spoon- fuls of mushroom liquor. Cook for ten minutes, then add 1 gill of veloute sauce, six minced mushrooms, and two trutiles also finely chopped. Season with A table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and | teaspoonful of nut- meg, and finish by adding 2 table spoonfuls of cream, or £oz. of butter. Fill eight table-shells with this, sprinkle them with sifted breadcrumbs, pour over a few drops of clarified butter, and put them in the oven to brown slightly for six minutes longer Serve on a hot dish with an ornamental paper over them, and garnish with fried parsley. Sweetbreads a la Finanqiere.—(1) Wash and blanch the Sweetbreads, then drain and press them between two plates till cold. Trim and season them with pepper and salt. Butter the bottom of a saute pan, put in the Sweet- breads, and fry them over the fire till set on both sides, then pour in 1 teacupful of clear broth, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Turn the Sweetbreads, pour in another teacupful of clear broth, and reduce that also to a glaze. When well glazed, put the Sweetbreads on a dish and keep) them hot while the following garnish is being pre- pared : Pour A pint of wine in the stewpan that the Sweetbreads were cooked in, and when boiling strain the wine through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Peel four raw truffles, cut them in quarters, put them in the wine with l teacupful of brown sauce, and boil for five minutes. Put eighteen or twenty button-mushrooms in the sauce, with the same quantity of small poached quen- elles and a dust of cayenne pepiper. Pour the garnish all round the Sweetbreads, and serve them while very hot. (2) Lard and fry four heart Sweetbreads. Fix a bread croustade on a dish, and when the Sweetbreads are nicely browned lean them against it, and put a cock's comb and Fig. 728. Sweetbreads a la Financiere. truffle between each space. Fill the croustade with some financiere ragout. Garnish over the top with cocks’ combs, and truffles that have been turned to an olive shape, and put the largest cock’s comb in the centre (see Fig. 728). Brush the Sweetbreads over with a brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. If liked, the croustade can be filled with green peas, mixed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, instead of the financiere ragout; in that case, peas must be put in piles on the dish between the Sweetbreads. Sweetbreads a la Parisienne.—Wash four nice Sweet- breads and boil them for twenty minutes, then drain and soak them in cold water. Lard two of the Sweetbreads with bacon, and stud the other two with fillets of raw truffles, pointed at one end. Place some slices of carrots, turnips, and onions in a stewpan with some thin rashers of bacon, put in the Sweetbreads, season them with a little salt, and pour in some good broth to about three- parts their height. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the Sweetbreads, and boil them gently till the liquor is reduced one-third, then place the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes upon it and finish cooking them. Ornament a border mould with truffles, fill it with veal forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. When cooked, turn the border of forcemeat on to a hot dish, fix a piece of fried bread in the centre masked with forcemeat, and fill the Sweetbreads—continued. hollow with cooked sliced truffles and mushrooms. Brush the Sweetbreads over with melted glaze, and stand them on the border, resting them against the block of bread. Put three button-mushrooms and a truffle between each Sweet- bread, garnish an attelette-skewer with a cock’s comb and a truffle, and fix it in the top of the bread support. Pour round the dish a little brown sauce that has been re- duced with a little wine, trimmings of mushrooms, and truffles. Serve the Sweetbread with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Sweetbreads a la Piedmontese.—Boil two or three Sweet- breads, drain, and leave them till cold, then cut them into slices broadwise. Season the slices of Sweetbreads, put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them till lightly browned on both sides. Drain the butter off the Sweetbreads, pour in a little white wine, and boil it till reduced; add a small quantity of white sauce, keep the pan over the fire for a few minutes, then put in about ten thinly-sliced raw white truffles, and move the sauce pan to the side of the fire and keep it covered. Boil fib. of well-washed rice, turn it into a buttered border-mould, and keep it in a hot closet for ten minutes. When set, turn the border of rice out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the Sweetbread mixture in the centre, and serve it while very hot. Sweetbreads a la Toulouse.—Steep the Sweetbreads till all the blood is drawn out, then blanch them in boiling water for five minutes or till they are firm. Drain the Sweet- breads and leave them till cool, then trim and lard them thickly. Put a layer of sliced onion, carrot, and celery at the bottom of a saute-pan, put in the cutlets of Sweet- breads, and pour in a little stock, but not enough to cover them. Glaze the Sweetbreads in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, basting them occasionally with their cooking-liquor. Cook some asparagus peas and make a bed of them on a hot dish. When nicely browned and glazed, drain the Sweetbreads and pile them on the aspar- agus. Pass the cooking-liquor through a silk sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve. Sweetbread Balls.—Finely chop some cooked Sweetbreads, mix with them half the quantity of breadcrumbs, a little chopped shallot, parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Stir sufficient beaten eggs into the above ingredients to bind them together, then divide the mixture into small equal portions and shape it into balls. Dip the balls in beaten egg, cover them with the finely-grated crust of bread, and fry them in butter. When nicely and equally browned put the balls on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Sweetbreads with Black Butter (au Beurre Noir).— Boil the Sweetbreads, then press them between two plates, and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into thin slices, and rub them in plenty of flour. Put Alb. of butter into a frying-pan, and stir it over the fire till frothy and brown, then put in the Sweetbreads, and brown them nicely on both sides. When cooked, put the Sweet- breads on a hot dish, garnish them with a few olives and • slices of lemon, put a little of the browned butter over them, and serve. Sweetbreads in Brown Sauce.—Put two Sweetbreads into a bowl of salted water, and let them soak for several hours; wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about five minutes, then take them out, plunge them into cold water, and let them remain for a few minutes. Cut off the skin and fat, remove the gristle, trim them, and cut each one up into three pieces; put them on a well-buttered tin, and bake them in the oven for about twenty minutes. In the meantime, put 1 teaspoonful of sugar and loz. of butter into a saucepan and brown them; add a finely- chopped onion, and brown this also; then add loz. of flour, and cook until this has a yellowish appearance; then sprinkle in a little each of cayenne, salt, and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and add l teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Stir