581 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Teal —continued. carcases and trimmings into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and cook in the oven for six minutes. Take them out and break or chop them up. Return them to the saucepan with 1 pint of rich broth, add a small bouquet garni, and cook over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Put Ioz. of butter into a saute-pan, place in the legs, wings, and breasts, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cook them on each side for three minutes, pour in h wine- glassful of Madeira wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, add the zest of a lemon, strain over the liquor from the bones, cook for fifteen minutes longer, and add 4 pint of Regence garnishing. Arrange the salmi on a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish. Teal a la Gourmet.—When the bird has been plucked, singed, and drawn, split it open down the back with a knife but do not divide it; pour boiling water over it, and remove the pink substance that will be found to line the Fig. 773. Teal a la Gourmet. back. Season it interiorly with spices, and brown it in a brisk oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Afterwards place the bird on a gridiron, the inside next the fire, and broil it for five minutes. Make some rich brown gravy, thickening it with baked flour. Lay the bird on a large slice of toasted bread on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, garnish with groups of vegetables, slices of beetroot, and quarters of oranges and lemons, or bits of orange and lemon pickles, and serve with red-currant jelly on a small glass dish. A fringe of watercress should also be arranged round the dish (see Fig. 773). TED J.—A honey drink or beer made in Abyssinia from honeycomb fermented in water with the bark and leaves of a bitter shrub called guecho. The manufacture of this being a royal monopoly it is very valuable, and appre- ciated according to its price by the Ethiopians who are wealthy enough to obtain it. Sometimes spelled Taidge, the pronunciation being the same. TENAKEZE.—The ninth class of French brandy. TENCH (Fr. Tanche ; Ger. Schleihe ; Ital. Tinea ; Sp. Tenca).—A European fresh-water fish (Tinea tinea) (see Fig. 774), allied to the carp. When caught in fresh Fig. 774. Tench. clear water it is a very good fish for eating, but when it has had the opportunity of revelling in mud and impuri- ties it is not of much value. Tench are prepared for cook- ing as follow : * Tench—con t in ned. Wipe off the slime with a cloth, put them in boiling water to soak for a few minutes, take them out, then with the back of an oyster-knife scrape them from the belly to the back, instead of from tail to head, as the scales lay downwards. Remove the gills, cut open the belly, remove the entrails, wash the fish well, and dry it. Truss the Tench in the shape of the letter S. Aspic of Tench.—Clean and scale a large-sized Tench, put it into a saucepan with a small bunch of parsley and marjoram, a few peppercorns, and the peel of half a lemon ; pour in sufficient veal broth and red wine in equal parts to a little more than cover the fish, boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the fish is done. Take it out, let it get quite cold, and put it into a deep pie-dish on top of a little set clear aspic jelly made either with pig’s or calf’s feet. Boil the liquor in which the fish was stewed until when cold it will jelly; turn it out into a basin and let it set. Break it ujr into rather small lumps, put them on top and round the fish, pour over a little more of the aspic jelly, which must be very slightly warmed, and set the fish in a cold place until the whole is firm. Turn it out on to a dish, garnish with parsley and chopped jelly, and serve. The fish must be set on the first jelly belly up- wards, so as Lo take its correct position when turned out. Boiled Tench.—Clean a Tench, plunge it into boiling water for a few minutes, take it out, and scale; gut it by cutting along the belly, and put it into a fish-kettle with a little more boiling water than will cover it; add t tea- cupful of vinegar and a little salt, and boil for about fifteen minutes or a little less. When the fish is done, take it out, drain, put it on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a sauce- boat. Broiled Tench.—(1) Clean ami wash three Tench, soak them in boiling water for a few minutes, take them out, scale them, taking, care not to injure their skins, gut them, and wipe dry. Rut them in a dish, and pour over Fig. 775. Broiled Tench. a mixture of olive oil, laurel leaves, parsley, shallot, thyme, chives, salt, and pepper; let the fish soak in this for about an hour, put them each on two sheets of paper well soaked in oil, cover them thickly with the mixture, fold the paper round, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Remove the paper when the fish are done, put them on a dish with the mixture, pour over piquant sauce, garnish freely with fried parsley (see Fig. 775), and serve. (2) Clean three or four Tench, plunge them into boiling water for two or three minutes, take them out, and scrape. Wash and wipe them, fill them with a mixture of fine herbs, chopped garlic and butter, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear tire. Put them on a dish when done, and serve with tomato sauce slightly flavoured with essence of anchovies poured over. (3) Clean and scale three or four Tench, score them slightly, sprinkle well with salt, dip them in oil, and cover with breadcrumbs. Put them on a slightly-oiled and warmed gridiron over a slow clear fire, and broil them, basting frequently with oil or butter and turning them so as to equally cook both sides. Put them when done on a dish, pour over some hot or devil sauce, and serve. (4) Wipe off the slime from four Tench, put them into hot water for a few minutes, take them out, scale, and gut them. Place them on a dish on top of a folded paper soaked in oil, cover with fine herbs, wrap the paper round