460 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. and truffles, fill the hollow of the moulds with it, and pour in a little stiffly-reduced Spanish sauce; hide the salpif on completely by placing a layer of the forcemeat on the top. Stand the moulds in a flat stewpan or a bain-marie, surround them with boiling water, and steam. Cut a block of bread in such a way as to receive three tiers of the boudins, one above the other, and fry it. When lightly coloured, fix the bread on a hot dish. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to the bread support, and serve. Broiled Snipes.—(1) Pick, singe, draw, and dry well six fine Snipes, remove the skin from the heads, split them into halves without detaching the parts, and put them on a dish. Season with 1 pinch of salt, | a pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil; put them to broil (with the bills stuck into the breasts), and let them cook for four minutes on each side. Place six slices of toast on a hot dish, arrange the Snipes on them, spread 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top, decorate the dish with a little watercress (see Fig. 596), and serve. (2) Pluck and singe the birds, brush them over with butter that has been melted and seasoned with pepper and salt, place them over a hot fire, and broil for three minutes on each side. This length of time will cook them well, but about fifteen minutes over a hot fire will be required to cook them thoroughly. Serve the birds as soon as they are done. Chaudfroid of Snipes.—Singe and draw ten Snipes, bone them, season them inwardly, then put on one side with their heads. Cut into thin slices lib. of calf’s liver, and put them in a frying-pan with a little lard ; toss them about over the fire for a few minutes, then put in with them the trails of the Snipes, 1 pinch of chopped onions, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and some trimmings of truffles; dust over them plenty of pepper and salt. When cooked, leave the liver and trails till cool, then put them into a mortar with half their quantity of chopped fresh bacon, and pound them. Add to the forcemeat two or three truffles cut into small pieces. Stuff the Snipes with the liver mixture, roll them into oval shapes, sew them up, and fasten a strip of buttered paper round each. Line the bottom of a stewpan with some trimmings of bacon, put in the Snipes, moisten them to half their height with white wine and gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the Snipes, put a sheet of paper on the top, place the lid on, Avith some hot ashes on it, and braise the Snipes for tAventy minutes over a sIoav fire. When cooked, take the Snipes out and alloAV them to cool, then remove the paper and strings and trim them neatly. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, mix Avith it I pint of brown sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming occasionally, then mix Avith it half its quantity of aspic jelly. When the sauce is thick and smooth, strain it through a sieve into another stewpan, and leave it until nearly cool, then set the stewpan on ice and stir it for a feAV minutes. Dip the Snipes in the sauce and cover them Avell Avith it; then arrange them on a baking-sheet and leave till the sauce has set. In the meantime cook the heads of the birds, trim them, and glaze them Avith a paste-brash dipped in melted glaze. Take the Snipes off the baking-dish, using a fork for the purpose, cut off all the superfluous sauce, and arrange them dome like on a small stand. Put one of the heads betAveen each of the birds, supporting them Avith chopped aspic jelly. The chaudfroid is then ready for serving. Snipes—continued. Fillets of Snipes in Cases.—Detach the fillets from the bones of some Snipes, trim them nicely, and lay them in a buttered saute-pan. Prepare a puree Avith the legs of the Snipes, a feAV poultry livers, some game giblets, boiled rice, stock, and butter. Procure as many paper cases as there are fillets and brush over the inside Avith oil. Fry the fillets over a brisk fire, turning them Avlien cooked on one side. Fill the cases Avith the puree, then put a fillet of Snipe in each case. Coat the top of each Avith some broAvn sauce that has been reduced Avith essence of game, stand the cases on a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a feAV minutes to glaze. Arrange the cases piled up on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Snipes.—Prepare the birds as for roasting, and roll them in flour or corn-meal seasoned Avith salt and pepper _ or bread them by dipping them first in fine crumbs,’ then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs; or put them plain into hot oil. When the birds are crisp and light brown, they are done. Care must be taken not to cook them sloAvly and long, for they Avill be dried and hardened by so doing. If the oil is smoking hot about a couple of minutes Avill be long enough to fry the Snipes. When they are broAvn, lay them on paper for a feAV moments to free them from grease, and serve hot. A little Avatercress and some sour oranges sliced and dressed Avith salad oil and cayenne Avill form a good garnish for the dish (see Fig. 597). Galantines of Snipes.—Pluck and bone the Snipes, prepare some game forcemeat, and mix some chopped truffles Avith it. Place the birds on the table, spread a thick layer of the mixture over them, then roll them to an oval shape, and Avrap each bird separately in a sheet of buttered paper. Put the birds in a saucepan Avith a small quantity of stock and steAV them gently; Avhen cooked, move them from the fire and leave till cold. When cold take the paper off the birds, trim them, and coat them Avith some broAvn chaudfroid sauce. When the sauce is cold on the birds decorate them Avith some calf’s udder, then coat them Avith lialf-set aspic jelly. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, and mask it Avith paper; in the centre place a support, on Avhich fix a model of Minerva cast in fat. Put the cooked heads of the Snipes at the base of the support on a string of chopped aspic jelly, stand the galantines on the pain-vert, leaning them against the support. Garnish the base of the pain-vert Avith truffles in cases, and serve. Ragoftt of Snipe.—(1) Pluck and draAV half-a-dozen Snipes, but do not wash them ; roast them, and AA’iien cooked, cut the meat off the breasts in thin slices. Put the bones, together Avith the legs and backs, in a mortar and pound them, place them in a stewpan, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, dredge in a moderate quantity of flour, and moisten Avith clear, nicely-flavoured gravy. Boil the Avliole gently until thick, then strain it through a fine hair sieAre. Put about loz. of butter into a stewpan Avith ilb. of thinly-sliced lean ham and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and toss it over the fire for a feAV minutes; then put in the breasts of the Snipes Avith the strained gravy, and simmer at the edge of the fire. Cut some thin slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them. Put the trails of the birds in a mortar Avith salt to taste, and pound them until smooth, then spread them over the pieces of toast, and pass a hot salamander oA'ei them. Turn the ragout in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round Avith the pieces of toast, and serve.