489 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respectinq Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Soups—continued. Fassa Soup.—A Spanish provincial Soup made of any kind of small birds. They are plucked, cleaned, and boiled in water with any vegetables that are available. The receipt depends upon the resources of the individual concerned. Feasant’s Soup (a la Faysanne).—Cut into square-shaped pieces two carrots, half a turnip, an eighth of a cabbage, half an onion, one potato, and two leaves of celery. Steam them for ten minutes with ‘2oz. of butter in a saucepan, then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with J table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook for lialf-anhour; when ready to serve add six thin slices of bread. Fenelope Soup.—Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in 31b. or 411). of knuckle of liam and Jib. of lean ham cut into small pieces ; add a few peeled and sliced carrots, turnips, and onions, and J pint of broth. Stir the above ingredients over a brisk fire till a thick glaze forms, then pour in 4qts. of water. When the liquor boils, move the saucepan to the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Thoroughly wash three cab- bage lettuces, one large lettuce, and a small quantity of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil; drain all the water out of them, cut them up, and mix with them one large peeled and thinly-sliced cucumber. Put a lump of butter weighing about 2oz. into a stewpan, put in the above mixture, and stir it over the fire till nearly all the moisture has eva- porated; then dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it till well mixed. Strain the stock of the meat through a fine hair sieve, and pour it gradually over the vege- tables; put in lqt. of fresh young peas, and boil it gently for lialf-an hour. Season the Soup with 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar and salt to taste, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. Piedmont Soup (a la Piedmontese).—Thoroughly wash Jib. of rice, cover it with boiling water, and soak it for an hour. Wash a cabbage, trim off the outside leaves, break the remainder into pieces, and steep them in boiling salted water. Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry it for a few minutes. Drain the rice and cabbage, put them in with the onion, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pour in either some stock, gravy, or water, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, stirring them occasionally. When ready to serve, mix some finely grated Parmesan cheese with the Soup. Plain Soup.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broken bread in a saucepan, and pour over it 3 pints of clear broth (chicken, veal, or mutton will do); when it boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for twenty minutes, stirring continually. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it. Polish Julienne Soup (a la Polonaise).—Cook altogether in a saucepan in 4qts. of water 1 breakfast-cupful of dry mushrooms, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of preserved peas, a carrot, and a piece of celery-root. Cut into fine shreds one onion, one leek, a piece of raw beetroot, and a root each of celery and parsley. Put the leek and onion into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in the other vegetables, and fry them for ten minutes. Strain the water in which the peas, &c., have been cooked into the saucepan containing the fried vegetables, and boil it up again; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Wash and blanch half a small cabbage, and cut it into fine shreds ; also shred a small portion of the cooked mushrooms, put them into the Soup, and let it simmer for half-an-hour longer. Thicken the Soup with about 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and add a little chopped fennel. Pour the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a dish of fried rissoles garnished with a cooked salpipon of mushrooms. Polish Soup (a la Polonaise).—Put a roasted fowl in a stockpot with a knuckle of veal, a marrow bone, lib. of bacon cut from the breast, a head of celery, two carrots, two onions stuck with six cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and loz. of pepper. Previously prepare Soups—continued. some beetroot liquor as follows: Put about two dozen fresh beetroots into an earthenware pan with about lgall. of river or soft water, add six small loaves of bread made of rye-flour, cover over the pan, and hermeti- cally seal it; put it in a warm place, and allow the con- tents to ferment. In ten days’ time, remove the cover from the pan, and the liquor or vinegar, which will be found very red and sour, will be ready for use. About three parts fill the stockpot with this liquor, and boil for about an hour, skimming frequently; then add to the stockpot a young duck, a half-roasted fowl, and six large sausages, taking them out as well as the bacon, as each one individually is done. Cut up a beetroot into pieces, put them in a frying-pan with an equal quantity of celery and onions also cut up, add a little butter, and cook them gently in this; then pour in about 1 breakfast- cupful of stock, and reduce to a glaze. Chop up 4oz. each of beef and beef-suet, and mix them up with the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and with part of this form about two dozen and a half small quenelles, poaching them in consomme for about ten minutes; with the remainder form some quenelles about the size of filberts, frying them for a few minutes lief ore serving in butter. Have ready three hard-boiled eggs, cut them lengthwise into halves, take out the yolks, put these into a mortar with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, add a little grated horseradish and chopped parsley, and pound them well together. Refill the whites -with the mixture, fix the eggs hack in their original shape, dip them into beaten raw egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter for a few minutes before serving. When the Soup has boiled for about five hours, skim it, strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, and reduce it. Put a braised ox-tail at the bottom of a soup-tureen, over this put the bacon cut into square pieces, the fillets cut from the fowl and duck, the sausages cut into quarters, and over these put the quenelles and eggs, then the chopped and fried vegetables, with a little blanched parsley; cover over the tureen, and set it away in the oven or hot closet to keep warm. Scrape a beetroot into a mortar, pound it to a pulp, and rub it through a cloth into a saucepan, so as to obtain a red juice ; bring this to the boil, pour in a little of the Soup, mix thoroughly, pour it back in with the remainder of the Soup, strain the whole into the tureen, and serve as hot as possible. The marrow from the bone may be served on toast, or the bone may be put as it is on a dish, and served. Pomeranian Soup.—Put lqt. of red haricot beans in a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, and boil them till soft. Drain the beans, put half of them on a wire sieve, and rub them through with the back of a wooden spoon. Put the mashed beans in a saucepan, and stir in gradually sufficient broth to make the Soup, say 3 pints. A head of celery cut small and previously boiled in the Soup will greatly improve the flavour. Put in a small bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and the whole beans, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil all for fifteen minutes. Take the bunch of herbs out of the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Poor Man’s Soup.—Put Jib. of beef-dripping and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter into a large saucepan with lib. of raw potatoes cut into slices, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 2qts. of boiling water, and boil them for one hour. Pull the heart of a well-washed cabbage into pieces, put them in the saucepan with the above ingredients, and boil it quickly for fifteen minutes. Season the Soup to taste with salt and pepper. Put some thin slices of bread into a soup-turren, pour in the Soup, and serve it. Portable Soup.—(1) Free 101b. of shin of beef from all fat and skin, and put it in a pan with 5lb. or 61b. of knuckle of veal and two fowls, all cut into small pieces and the bones broken. Pour over these ingredients 4galls. of water, and season with loz. of whole black pepper and J table- spoonful each of Jamaica pepper and mace. When boiling,