461 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. (2) Split the Snipes lengthwise, but do not take out the insides ; put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, 1- teacupful of mushroom ketchup, and a little pepper and salt, and cook the Snipes over a clear fire. When done, put the birds on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Boasted Snipes.—(1) Pluck, singe, and draw some Snipes, and remove the backbones. Finely chop some fresh pork, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped raw mush- rooms, 1 pinch of shallot, some parsley and pepper. Fill the birds with the above mixture, sew them up, and truss them; fix the Snipes on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them continually with butter. Place some slices of bread underneath the birds in the dripping- pan. Put two sliced onions into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, season them with pepper and salt, and fry till nicely browned ; then dredge in a little Hour, and stir in gradually about h pint of stock, and boil it gently till the onions are cooked. Fry the trails of the Snipes with three chicken’s livers, season them, pound, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree of trails into a saucepan with a little white wine and the onions, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not allow them to boil. When cooked, remove the Snipes from the fire, brush them over with melted glaze, put the pieces of bread from the dripping-pan on a hot dish, stand the Snipes on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Pluck and singe the Snipes, but do not draw them; pick out their gizzards, truss, and cover them with fat bacon, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for ten or twelve minutes, with slices of toast under them. When cooked, dredge some salt over the birds, arrange the pieces of toast on a hot dish, put the birds on < them, garnish with watercress, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. (3) Procure six fine Snipes, and pick, singe, draw, and wipe them (reserving the hearts and livers for further use); pick out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss the legs, skewer them with the bills, tie a thin slice of larding-pork round each bird, and put them in a roasting- pan, sprinkling over 1 pinch of salt. Set the pan in the oven and roast the birds for eight minutes. Chop up very fine the hearts and livers, together with 1 teaspoonful j each of chives and warmed butter, seasoning with \ pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Cover six bread canapes with this mixture, sprinkling a few sifted breadcrumbs on top. Spread a very little butter over all, and put them on a tin plate in the oven for two minutes. Arrange the canapes on a hot dish, place the Snipes over, decorate with a little watercress, and strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, serving it separately. (4) Wipe the Snipes when plucked with a soft cloth, truss them with their heads under their wings, but do not draw them. Put them on a spit before the fire, feet downwards, flour them well, and baste with hot butter. Lay a thick piece of light-browned toast, buttered well on both sides, under the birds that the juice may drip on it. Twenty minutes ought to be long enough to roast the birds. Lay the toast on a hot dish, cut it into as many pieces as there are Snipes, lay a bird on each piece of toast, and serve hot. Salmi of Snipes.—(1) Divide eight cold roasted Snipes into two pieces each, trim off the necks, skin, and feet, and put the bodies into a saute-pan. Place the bones and trimmings in a mortar and pound them, then put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, three cloves, and J pint of claret. Boil quickly . till the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for half-an-hour, skimming off the scum as it rises to the top. Strain the sauce through a silk sieve into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick cream. Pour a little of the sauce into the saute-pan with the Snipes, and warm them without boiling. Put the pieces of Snipe on a hot dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. I Snipes—continued. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe six fine, fat Snipes, chop off the legs, stuff the insides with a little game forcemeat, using a paper cornet, fill the cavity of the eyes with a little more of the forcemeat, and cover each eye right over the forcemeat with a small bit of truffle, cut with a tube. Insert the bills in the breasts, and lay the birds in a roasting-pan with a little butter; then place them in the hot oven to roast for six minutes. Take them out of the oven, lay each one on a square piece of bread fried in a little clarified butter, pour over 1 pint of hot salmi sauce, to which has been added twelve whole mushrooms, and serve. Snipe Crusts.—(1) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness oft' a household loaf, and shape them into long squares; put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry till lightly browned on one side, then take them out and drain. Put the intestines of two raw Snipes into a stewpan with a little chopped bacon and a piece of butter, toss them about over the fire for a minute or two, then add a few poultry livers, two or three thin slices of calf’s liver, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Fry the livers &c., over a quick fire, turning them frequently till well cooked; let them cool, then pound them in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree J teacupful of brown sauce that has been reduced with a little meat glaze and Madeira; turn the mixture into a saucepan, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then add the beaten yolks of three eggs and 1 pinch of nutmeg. Cover the browned sides of the pieces of bread with the Fig. 598. Snipe Crust. Snipe mixture (see Fig. 598), then put them back in the sauffi-pan with the butter, and stand it in a slack oven for a few minutes. Arrange the crusts on a hot dish, and serve while hot. (2) Remove the trails and partially roast the Snipes; when cold cut the meat oft' them in small pieces, put it in a mortar, and pound. Season the meat with finely- grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and moisten with beaten yolk of egg. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds in a stewpan with a small quantity of brown stock, and stew them at the side of the fire for about half-an- hour. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in another stewpan, put in the trails of the birds, first bruising them, and strain in the liquor from the bones. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then strain again and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Spread the pounded meat over some thin slices of hot buttered toast, place them in the oven until the meat is hot, then cut them into lengths; arrange them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Snipe Pie.—(1) For a good-sized pie about six brace of birds will be required; cut eacli bird into four pieces. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat with cold ham, tongue, or chicken, a third of the quantity of finely-grated bread- crumb, a few minced mushrooms, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. Butter and line the edges of a pie-dish with a good paste, put in a layer of the birds, breast downwards, dust them over with salt and pepper, next put in a layer of the forcemeat, and proceed in this way until all is used. Pour in some rich brown gravy, cover with a flat of the paste, and moisten and trim it round the edges. Make a small hole in the top of the paste, bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve when cold. (2) Pluck and singe about twelve Snipes, bone the backs, and season them. Fry the trails in a little bacon-fat, pound them, season with salt and pepper, and pass them