THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 617 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. and half a green pepper, also chopped. Brown them slightly for six minutes, then transfer them to a saucepan with one cut-up Tomato and t pint of Spanish sauce, anil season with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, adding a bouquet garni, also a crushed clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Tripe a la Dubois.—Well wash lib. of Tripe, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it until tender. Take it out and cut it into squares. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion and a little shallot into a saucepan with a small quantity of lard, and colour them; add twelve button mushrooms, cook until their moisture is extracted, sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, add 3 table-spoonfuls of capers and cook for a minute; then remove the saucepan from the fire and let the contents cool. Add a handful of sifted breadcrumbs, a small quantity of parsley, and sufficient butter to form the whole into a paste. Put the Tripe, - which should be in one large square piece, on a table, place the mixture in the centre, fold the Tripe over, sew the edges together with twine, sprinkle over the Tripe a little salt and pepper, dip it first into well-beaten egg, then in butter, and lastly into breadcrumbs. Put it on a grid- iron over a slow fire, and cook gently for twenty-five minutes. Place it on a dish, remove the thread, and serve with a little hot gravy poured round. Tripe a la Lyonnaise.—(1) Well wash 1 Jib. of Tripe, boil it in water until tender, cut it up into pieces or fillets about Hin. long and lin. wide, sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and flour, put them into a frying-pan with boiling lard, and fry them for five or six minutes. Take them out and drain on a sieve. Put two or three onions cut up into slices in a frying-pan with a little oil, butter, and a clove of garlic, and cook them until they are well coloured; then add the Tripe, sprinkle over a little cayenne, toss the pan over the fire until the onions are cooked, take out the garlic, add a little chopped parsley, remove the pan from the fire, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put a piece of well-washed Tripe into a saucepan of water or milk and water, and boil it for twenty or thirty minutes, by which time it should be quite tender. Take it out, drain, and cut it up into squares. Put 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped onion into a frying-pan with an equal quantity of butter, and brown it; add the pieces of Tripe, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the side of the fire, and cook gently for about five minutes. Take out the pieces of Tripe, place them on pieces of toast on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve. (3) Cut up 1 Alb. of double Tripe, also two onions, and brown them in a pan with loz. of clarified butter until they assume a fine golden colour. Drain off the fat, return the pan to the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and 1 gill of good Spanish sauce, and stew for two minutes longer. Serve with 1 pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over. Tripe a la Mode.—Take 5lb. of double Tripe, one cow- heel, three calf’s feet, all well washed and cleaned in fresh water, and cut them in pieces 2in. long by lin. square. Have at hand an earthenware pot or saucepan, put some of the pieces of feet at the bottom, cover over with Tripe, then a layer of sliced carrots and onions, and continue the same until the vessel is full, seasoning each layer. Tie in a cloth a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, and six cloves ; put this in the middle of the pot, and pour over 1 pint of cider or white wine and a liqueur- glassful of brandy ; cover over the top with stalks of some green leeks, parsley-roots, and cabbage-leaves; place the lid on the pan, fastening it down with paste, so that the steam cannot escape, and leave it for about ten hours in a very slow oven. Serve on a hot dish. Tripe a la Poulette.—Put a large chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a good yellow colour ; add lib. of Tripe cut into squares, season well with salt and pepper, fry well until the moisture of the Tripe is reduced, dredge over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and add gradually suffi- Tripe—continued. cient rich broth to moisten. Stir well until the liquor boils, then add a bunch of parsley, boil for two minutes, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes. Take out the pieces of Tripe, put them on a dish, and keep warm. Reduce the liquor, thicken it with yolks of eggs, pour it over the Tripe, and serve. A little butter, chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg may be mixed in with the liquor. Tripe a la Toulouse.—Put a piece or pieces of Tripe weigh- ing 61b. or 7lb. into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and boil. Take it out, drain, scrape it clean, wash well in several waters, and cut it up into 2in. squares. Put fill, of fat bacon, cut up in small pieces, into a sauce- pan, melt them over the fire, add them to the Tripe in a saucepan, with 1 wineglassful each of white wine and brandy, and sufficient rich broth to cover; boil for a minute or two, add a carrot and an onion, a few cloves and pepper- corns, a little raw ham, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Boil again, cover over the pan, closing it hermeti- cally, remove it to the side of the fire or on the hot ashes, cover it to half its height, and simmer gently and con- tinuously for seven or eight hours. Take out the Tripe with a skimmer, strain the liquor, and skim ofl the fat. Put a little lard into a frying-pan, melt it over the fire, stir in 1 table- spoonful of flour, fry to a light colour, and add a little of the liquor from the stock. As soon as the liquor com- mences to boil, remove the pan to the side of the fire, add Jib. of raw ham cut up small, and cook for ten minutes; then add the Tripe, and simmer for half an-hour longer. Skim oil' all the fat, add a little finely-chopped parsley and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced gherkins, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Tripe and Onions.—Put lib. of Tripe into a saucepan with four large onions cut in slices, sprinkle over 1 teaspoon- ful of salt and a little pepper, and pour over 1 pint of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes or until the Tripe is tender. Take out the Tripe and onions, skim the fat oil' the liquor, reduce to half the original quantity, add a thickening of milk and flour, and boil for a minute or so; replace the Tripe and onions, simmer at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve hot. Tripe Salad.—Boil some Tripe and an equal quantity of potatoes, drain them, and leave them till cold. Wash two or three heads of endive, shred them, and put them in a salad dish. Chop the potatoes and cut the Tripe into small pieces, put them in the centre of the dish, strew some chopped capers over the top, pour over a plain salad dress- ing composed of oil and vinegar, garnish round the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 826), and serve. A Fig. 826. Tripe Salad. very good salad can be made of pickled Tripe, by cutting it into small pieces and putting them in a salad Bowl with some chopped celery, with a mayonnaise dressing poured over it. Tripe Soup.—Wash and trim 31b. of bullock’s Tripe, put it in a saucepan with a lump of salt and lqt. of water, aird boil it gently till tender, keeping the water welI skimmed. When cooked, drain the Tripe, cut it into small pieces, put them in a saucepan, strain their cooking liquor over them, and pour in lqt. of clear soup stock; place this over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of three eggs