672 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. seasoning of salt, and cook them slightly. Take them out, put them into a saucepan, together with the butter from them ; add 2qts. of mushrooms and two onions and carrots cut into slices, a small bunch of parsley, two boned anchovies, a little finely minced ham, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a small quantity each of cayenne, ground mace, pepper, and allspice; pour in 4 pint of hot broth and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of consomme, aud boil slowly for about an hour. Strain through a cloth, and add to it about an equal quantity of well-skimmed Spanish sauce. Before straining, the pieces of sole should lie taken out and put in the tureen, together with quenelles made with a slice or two of salmon, four cooked truffles cut into pieces, and also a few cooked sweetbreads. Pour over the soup, adding as much more as may be required; put into the tureen about three dozen cooked mushrooms and cocks’ combs, and serve with pieces of toasted bread separately. (10) Cut off the fillets from a turbot, put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with two onions, 2qts. of mushrooms, a small slice of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a small quantity each of thyme, bay- leaf, basil, and marjoram; add cayenne, grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, pour in 4 pint of champagne, and boil slowly for about an hour. Rub as much as possible through a fine sieve into another saucepan; add to it the required quantity of consomme for the dish, say about 2qts., and a little Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes, skimming frequently. Have ready in the tureen the pieces of turbot boiled in salted water, together with a few quenelles of partridges, cooked crayfish-tails, two or three dozen blanched oysters, about the same quantity of cooked mushrooms, and a few cocks’ kernels also cooked; pour over the soup, and serve. TUTTI FBiUTTI.—Ital. for all sorts of fruit. The name is applied to a great variety of fruit dishes, ices, &c., as will be seen hereunder. (1) Line the interior of a 3-pint melon-shaped mould with 1 pint of vanilla cream. Cut 4oz. of candied apricots into small pieces, also 4oz. of candied cherries into halves. Mix these together. Spread half the quantity of the fruits evenly round the creim in the mould, and pom- in 1 pint of raspberry water-ice round the fruits. Arrange the balance of the fruits all round the water-ice, and fill the mould with 1 pint of pistacMs cream-ice. Tightly cover the mould, put it in a pail with a layer of broken Fig. 916. Tutti Frutti. ice and rock-salt at the bottom, fill up to the surface with the same, and freeze for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn out the Tutti Frutti (see Fig. 91(3) on a glass stand, and serve with the following sauce: Put in a basin 1 pint of whipped cream with 2oz. of sugar and 1 gill of maraschino. Beat the whole well together for two minutes. Pour it over the Tutti Frutti, and immediately send to table. (2) Prepare 1 pint of vanilla cream-ice, 4 pint of straw- berry cream-ice, and 4 pint of lemon water-ice; let them remain in the freezers. Put 4oz. of candied cherries on to Tutti Frutti—continued. a plate, cut them into halves, and add two candied apricots cut into small pieces. Take six Tutti-Frutti moulds, open one of them, and lay on the cover 1 spoonful of strawberry cream with 1 spoonful of the lemon water- ice, one beside the other; press a sixth part of the candied fruits into the cream, in the cover of the mould, filling the bottom with vanilla cream, and close together firmly. Lay it immediately in a pail with broken ice and rock-salt at the bottom, cover the mould slightly with more ice and rock-salt, and proceed to prepare the other five moulds the same. When they are all in the pail and covered as the first one, fill it up entirely with broken ice and salt, and freeze for an hour. Have a vessel containing warm water ready to hand, and prepare six small dessert-plates with a small fancy paper on each ; lift up the moulds, one after the other, wash the ice and salt off quickly, turn the Tutti Fruttis on to the plates, and serve. (3) Prepare some short-paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and cut it into rounds the same size as the pudding-basin. Butter the basin, and spread a thick layer of currant jam at the bottom ; next put in a round of the paste and spread that with a layer of apricot jam, cover that with another round of paste, which mask with a layer of strawberry jam. Fill the basin with the rounds of paste and alternate layers of the jams. Wring a pudding-cloth out in boiling water, flour it, and tie it tightly over the basin. Plunge the pudding into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. More boil- ing water should be poured into the saucepan occasionally to keep up the required quantity, which should well cover the pudding. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with cream. (4) Stone Jib. of raisins, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a small piece of stick cinnamon, and stew them over a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes. Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, put them in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat well. Strain the milk from the raisins over the eggs and sugar, stirring them well at the same time. Turn tlie mixture into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick, without allowing it to boil ; then move it off the fire and leave it until cold. Remove the cinnamon from the raisins, and mix with them 2oz. of peeled and finely- chopped sweet almonds, 2oz. of candied cherries, and two limes that have been cut into quarters ; add also 2oz. of thinly-shred citron-peel. Stir the cold custard* gradually in with the fruit, and when well mixed turn it into a freezer, and work until frozen. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the frozen mixture into it, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. When the pudding is quite firm, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the contents at the sides, then turn the pudding into a fancy dish, and serve. (5) Whisk the well beaten yolks of three eggs into 1 pint of fresh milk, add sugar to taste, and then set it over a moderate fire ; stir till it thickens, but take it from the fire without letting it boil, and stir it occasionally till cool ; then add 4lb. of almonds (weighed in their shells), blanched and grated fine, 2oz. of rai. ins stoned and chopped, and 2 table-spoonfuls of strawberry jam; mix all well together § and put it into a freezer. When nearly frozen, stir in \>2 pints of rich fresh cream whipped and sweetened. Let it" remain in the freezer till thoroughly frozen, stirring it frequently to keep the ingredients well mixed. (6) Set 1 pint of rich fresh cream over the fire; mix into it the well-beaten yolk of an egg, Jib. of loaf sugar, and essence of vanilla according to taste. Stir it till just on the point of boiling, take it from the fire then, and strain through a fine sieve. When quite cold, put it into a freezer, and when half frozen add and stir in 1 table- spoonful of greengage jam, 1 table-spoonful of peacli preserve cut in small pieces, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of strawberry jam and cherry preserve. Let the cream remain in the freezer till quite frozen, then serve. (7) Pour 4qts. of cream into a saucepan, add 2lb. of powdered loaf sugar, eight eggs, and loz. of fresh or dried elder-flowers. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir