447 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sherbet—continued. cold water, and is a very refreshing beverage in the summer time. Several other Sherbets are described under special headings. The word Sherbet is derived from the Armenian Sherbet, Shorbet, or Sharbat, which signifies properly one drink or sip, a single draught. Eastern fruit drinks are called Sherbets when they are sweet, and Bosas when they are acid. At all the street corners of the Turkish cities men are found selling syrups of apricots, cherries, or lemons, and iced water, which they serve in small drinking cups with covers. London Sherbet is a sort of lemon-kali made as follows: Mix 5oz. each of tartaric acid and bicarbonate of soda with lib. of caster sugar, all separately dried and pounded. Add a drachm of essence of lemon to the sugar, rub the whole through a fine sieve in a dry place, put it in bottles, and it is ready for use. 2 table-spoonfuls in a tumblerful of water is sufficient to use at a time. SHERRY (Fr. YindeXeres; Ger. Xereswein ; Ital. Vino Bianco; Sp. Vino de Xerez).—A Spanish light coloured wine, made in the district of Xerez, from which it takes its name, in Andalusia. It varies very consider- ably in quality, some of the best ranking very high in the world of wines; but, on the other hand, the British markets are so over-run with an inferior or doctored pro- duce that it is difficult to say whether what is sometimes called Sherry has ever been in Spain at all. A very good imitation Sherry for cooking purposes is made as follows: (1) Rub some lump sugar over the peel of six lemons, then scrape it off, and put this zest in a basin; squeeze in the juice of twelve lemons, sweeten it with sugar, and pour in sufficient cold clear water, which, with the addition of a bottle of lemonade, will make the requisite quantity. Pass the mixture through a silk sieve, turn it into a large jug, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In an hour or two the Sherry will be found a most refreshing drink. (2) Pour 5galls. of sweet cider into a cask with 21b. of glucose; then add Igall. of hot white elder-flower wine with |oz. of citric acid dissolved in it, and mix well with an agitator; then add |oz. of blanched bitter almonds, toz. of red rose-leaves, and lastly 1 J2oz. of gelatine soaked and dissolved in a little of the cider. Whisk the whole well, bung up, let the wine clear, and bottle in three months’ time. Ever since Great Britain first opened up a wine com- merce with Spain, Sherry has been established as one of the standards. It is not only an excellent dinner wine, but can be used in the manufacture of numerous sauces and other culinary preparations. Sherry Cobbler.—(1) Sweeten the Sherry to taste, and mix with it some broken ice. Serve it in glasses, with straw or glass tubes to suck it through. (2) Mix together h pint of Sherry, two slices of lemon, a little mint, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and some finely broken ice, and stir till the sugar has dissolved; then pour in a bottle of soda water, and serve. (3) Put 2 wineglassfuls of Sherry into a pint tumbler, add \ wineglassful each of maraschino and Jamaica rum, and mix well. Float on the top half an orange cut in thin slices, put in as much crashed ice as required, and drink through straws. Sherry Cobbler Syrup.—Cut a lemon into thin slices, put them in a vessel, pour over 1 pint each of simple syrup and Sherry wine, and let them macerate for twelve hours. Strain, and bottle. Sherry Granito.—Mix a bottle of Sherry in 2qts. of lemonade, and stir it over ice in jugs till frozen; then serve. Sherry Jelly.—(1) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with £lb. of sugar, add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium sized lemon, squeezing in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on the hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two Sherry—continued. eggs, and add them to the other ingredients; grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, adding six cloves and one bay- leaf, and beat well with a whisp for one minute. Have ready a seamless jelly bag, and let it lie on a jelly stand, or, if none be handy, two kitchen chairs, one turned over the other, will answer the purpose. Stir the preparation, and when coming to a boil, set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it \ pint of Sherry and 1 teaspoonful of browned sugar. Let it drain into the vessel, then return it to the bag, placing another vessel underneath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, and set it aside in a cool place for two hours; then pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Prepare a cold dish, and after dipping the mould lightly and carefully to near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately and turn it on to the dish, wiping the dish well before sending to the table. (2) Soak loz. of gelatine until soft in 1 teacupful of cold water, then put it in a saucepan with \ pint of boiling water, and place it over the fire until dissolved. Beat the whites of two eggs with their shells, then mix them in with the gelatine liquor; add also the juice of three lemons, the thinly pared rind of one, and Jib. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until it boils, then take the spoon out and let it boil gently for five minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and leave it for a few minutes with a cover over it. Mix with it 3 wineglassfuls of Sherry and 1 wine- glassful of brandy. Strain the jelly through a jelly bag until clear, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. Leave the jelly packed in ice if pos- sible for two or three hours until quite cold and set. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a dish. Sherry Sponge Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish, and put into it two sponge cakes and 1 wineglassful of Sherry. Boil h pint of milk with three lumps of sugar, then beat two eggs up with it; when the wine is absorbed, pour the custard over the cakes, and bake it in a slow oven. When set, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve. SHIRAZ.—A Pei •sian wine, so named from the neighbourhood in which it is prepared. SHORTBREAD.—A delicious kind of cake origi- nally manufactured in Scotland. The following receipts for its preparation are authentic and reliable : English Shortbread.—(1) Put |lb. each of sugar and butter into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and work in two eggs and lib. of flour. Cut the dough into either round or square shapes, decorate the tops with cut preserved lemon-peel and caraway comfits, place them on dry tins, and bake in a moderate oven until done. (2) Work lib. of butter in 31b. of flour till quite smooth, then mix in 1 Jjb. of caster sugar. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of milk and 1 teacupful of honey water, then stir the above mixture to a paste with it. Roll the paste out, and with a round fluted tin-cutter, about Sin. in diameter, stamp the paste out, or it may be cut into oval shapes if preferred. Place them a short distance from each other on bright baking sheets, not buttered, put a strip of candied citron-peel on the top of each, and bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Sift Gib. of flour and 1 piled teaspoonful of baking powder on a table or board. Work 8oz. of butter to a cream, mix in 8oz. of crashed loaf sugar, and beat well until it has a whitish appearance; then add a little essence of lemon, three eggs, and the flour and baking powder, form- ing the whole into a stiffish dough. Make it into cakes about 1 loz. each in weight, form them round, then roll them to an oval shape, pinching them round the edges, place a few small pieces of candied lemon-peel on the tops, and bake slowly in a very moderate oven. Take them out when done, and serve when cold.