THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 541 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. drop by drop only, lest the icing should become acid also in taste. Lemon-juice and a strong solution of tartaric acid are sometimes used effectively, so also is cornflour occasionally added to the Sugar, gum Arabic, and other substitutes for the real thing (see Icing). The condensed whites of eggs used as gelatine, make good icing, and gelatine itself in solution produces a very strong icing that does not easily break. For dummy bride-cakes, flowers, and hard sweets, gelatine icing is perhaps better than that made from whites of eggs; but that it is less friable also signifies that it would be harder in the mouth —a quality by no means desirable. Fig. "12. Paper Cornet. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. that is set also, you may prepare for the piping and other ornamentation. Square or oblong cakes do not require a rotary stand for the glazing; much will then depend upon the confec- Piping is by no means confined to working with icing Sugar, for artistic cooks and others are accustomed to apply the art to other things, such as fat and paste, which are often made to serve exquisite purposes in the decoration of special dishes (see Fat). Under this heading, however, the directions given apply strictly speaking to Sugar- piping, but by their very nature they apply also to all manner of piping, as will be readily understood further on— and Sugar-piping is best de- scribed as applied to cakes. Before starting to pipe it should be seen that the surface of the cake is smoothly and evenly iced over, otherwise much of the piping ornamentation will be unnecessarily uneven, losing greatly thereby in effect. The cake should lie neatly trimmed with a sharp knife—some con- fectioners say not, but that the irregularities of sui-face should be filled in with almond or other icing, thereby creating an un- evenness of distribution of that pronounced delicacy : this is not to be recommended. Trim the cake evenly, and then, if a round cake, stand it on an iron (see Fig. 709) or wooden (see Fig. 710) rotary stand, the table of which shall be smaller than the bottom of the cake, and have the basin of ready-prepared icing close at hand. When almond icing is used it should be laid on some days before the Sugar- icing, and allowed to get firm and well set. Spread'the icing carefully over the top of the cake and then smooth it by turning the cake quickly whilst a broad stiff-bladed knife is held on it lightly with its point in the centre (see Fig. 711). As soon as the top is done, proceed to plaster the side, and then smooth that also with the knife held vertically against the side. When this is satisfac- torily accomplished, smooth off the top edge, and then set the cake by for the icing to harden. Sometimes a second icing is advisable, in which case it must not be applied until the first is well hardened, which will be in the course of twenty-four hours or so. When Fig. 713. Paper Cornet, FITTED WITH TUBE, AND FILLED READY FOR USE. tioner’s skill in plastering. A broad flat knife should be used, such as a glazier’s putty-knife, and then some excellent effects may be secured. Cakes built in grades or stages should each be iced separately, and the lower cake may be ornamented in advance. When required, these grades or layers are fixed one upon the other by spreading a little icing beneath them. The upper layers of the cake can be ornamented when they are set firm. Coloured icings are frequently used, and these are pre- pared by making a paste of the colour (see Colour- ings) with some of the Sugar, and working it in with the other. Flavourings are not usually added to icing, but foreign confectioners advocate the use of vanilla flavouring in small quantities when the icing is intended for pastry or inferior cakes, and lemon oil is often used almost to nauseating. None of these should enter the icing of a wedding-cake, which depends upon its whiteness for its quality. This whiteness is greatly increased by the addition to the icing, whilst making, of a few drops of liquid indigo. The next thing to do is to make a cornet or bag to hold the icing and enable the piper to lay it over the surface to be piped in some sort of fancy or artistic design. The simplest of all these is the paper cornet (see Fig. 712), which is made by twisting up a half sheet of note-paper into a cone (see Cornets). A specially pre- Fig 715. Silk Piping-Bag, fitted with Screw Nozzle for Tubes. pared paper is also made for the construction of cornets, which is tough, thin, and water-proof ; it has this advan- tage, that it can be filled several times without bursting or breaking away, and will stand considerable pressure, which would be necessary with stiff icing. When filled, the paper cornet is turned in at the top as shown in Fig. 713, and the fold is held in its place by