THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 657 * Turkeys—continued. them into a saucepan with hot water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then take the pinions out, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with chicken broth. Boil the pinions gently till cooked, then drain and arrange them on a silver casserole, pour some veal broth over, and serve them. Turkey Pinions a la St. Menehould. —Remove the large bone from eight or ten Turkey pinions, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with equal quantities of white wine and stock, season with salt, pepper, and 1 pinch of grated nutmeg, and boil gently till cooked ; then take them out. Boil the cooking- liquor till reduced to a creamy consistency, pour it over the pinions, first removing the bunch of herbs, and leave them till cold. Dip the pinions in olive oil, cover them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them so that they may be equally browned on both sides. Put the pinions on a hot dish, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and serve them. Turkey Pinions with. Chicory.—Take out the large bones of the pinions, blanch them, put them in a saucepan with mirepoix, and cook them. When cooked, arrange the pinions in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a puree of chicory, and serve. Turkey Rechauffe with White Sauce.—Trim away all the skin and bones from any remains of cold cooked Turkey, and cut the meat into small square pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and continue stirring until boiling. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and put in the pieces of Turkey. Keep the sauce simmering slowly at the side of the fire until the pieces of Turkey are hot through, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Turkey Salad.—(1) Remove the bones from some cold cooked Turkey, trim off all the skin and thick fat, and cut the meat into long strips and then across, making the smallest possible squares. If celery be in season, procure about two-thirds as much celery as there is Turkey, and cut it in the same way. Lettuce or white cabbage, or a mixture of both, can be used in place of the celery, adding celery salt or extract of celery vinegar. Mix the meat and vegetables together, and season them with pepper and salt. Mix t teacupful of vinegar and A teacupful of salad- oil together, then stir in with the salad. Cover the bottom of a salad-bowl with highly-seasoned mayonnaise, spread the salad on the top of it, and serve. (2) Cut the flesh from a cold roasted Tiukey, trim off the skin and fat, and chop the meat finely. Boil twelve eggs till hard, peel them, remove the whites, and mash the yolks till smooth with 1 table-spoonful of water; then mix the chopped Turkey with it, and A table-spoonful of pounded celery seed, seasoning the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and mustard. Mix 1 teacupful of olive oil with vinegar to taste. Put the Turkey mixture on a dish, pour the vinegar and oil over it, and serve at once. (3) Trim and chop the meat off a cold roasted Turkey ; mince three slices of lean cooked ham, two bunches of celery, three apples, and four cucumber pickles; then mix all together. Mash the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs in a little cream, mix with them Jib. of butter, slightly warmed, 2 teaspoonfuls each of salt, mustard, and pepper, and vinegar to taste. Pour the dressing over the salad, and serve it without delay. (4) Prepare two Turkeys, and boil them till well done ; drain them, separate the meat from the bones, trim off all the skin and fat, and chop it finely. Boil twelve eggs till hard, leave them till cool, and then separate the yolks from the whites; mash the yolks and chop the whites. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard in a dish, pour in a small quantity of salad-oil, and rub it till smooth with a fork; then pour in a little vinegar in which has been dissolved 2 table spoonfuls of salt, and continue pouring in alternately oil and vinegar till 1 pint of the latter and Turkeys—continued. A pint of the former have been used. Pound 3 tea- spoonfuls of celery-seed in a mortar, and cut a large mango into small pieces; mix these and the hard-boiled eggs with the oil and vinegar, add 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and stir till well mixed. Chop as much celery as there is Turkey meat, then mix them together on a dish, pour the dressing over, and serve. Turkey Sandwich.—Finely chop the dark meat of a cold roast Turkey, put it into a saucepan with about 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped celery, season it with salt and pepper, and stir over the fire till hot; then add a soft-boiled egg, and leave it till cool. Cut some slices of bread about Ain. in thickness, toast them on both sides, then split them in two, and butter them inside. Spread a layer of the Turkey mixture on one of them, lay the other side over, and press them gently with the blade of a knife. Cut the sandwiches into halves or quarters, put them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper that has been placed on a dish, and serve them. Turkey Sausage.—Draw a Turkey, cut the skin down the back and round the joints, then pull it off as nearly whole as possible. Separate the meat from the bones, remove all the gristle, chop the meat, then put it in a mortar and pound it. Chop and pound half the quantity of fat bacon, and mix it with the pounded Turkey. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and sage, roll it in the skin of the Turkey, and then in a cloth, fastening this securely at the ends (see Fig. 902). Rut the rolled Turkey into a saucepan with the bones and trimmings, cover it with lightly-seasoned broth, and boil it gently for an hour. When cooked, put the Turkey on a dish, leaving it in the cloth, place another dish on the top, with a weight Fig. 902. Turkey Sausage. on the top of that, and leave it till cold. Remove the cloth from the sausage, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish, ornament it with chopped aspic jelly and small sprays of parsley, and serve. Turkey Soup.—(1) Remove the meat from the bones of the remains of a cold cooked Turkey, preserving it as whole as possible. Cut the meat off the breasts into collops, and put them on one side; chop the remainder, and pound it with l breakfast-cupful of rice that has been boiled. Cut off the bones of the Turkey’s legs, put them into a saucepan with the giblets and some trimmings of veal, add some carrots, onions, celery, leek, and a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt, pepper, and cloves, and cover the whole with broth. When the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an-hour-and a-half. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, skim off the fat, put it in the pounded meat and rice, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Mix 2 table spoonfuls of curry powder to a smooth paste with a small quantity of broth, then stir it into the saucepan with the other ingredients; move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put. in the Turkey collops, boil it up again so as to make it hot, then pour it into a tureen, and serve. (2) Take the carcase of a cold roasted Turkey, cut all the scraps of meat from it, and mince them fine; mince also any bits of heart, liver, and gizzard that may be left. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a soup-kettle, and set it over the fire to get hot. Peel and slice an onion, and when the butter is hot add the onion to it, together with the minced Turkey-meat and any cold stuffing on VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. tr