THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 637 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tunny—continued. them out as soon as they are done and the flesh quite firm, drain them, dust them over with a little salt, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Pried Tunny Steak.—Put 1 teacupful or so of oil into a saucepan, warm it, and put in a slice of Tunny cut about lin. thick and sprinkled on both sides with salt and flour. Fry it well for eighteen or twenty minutes, turning it frequently so as to cook it equally. Take it out when done, drain off all the oil, remove the skin, and put it on a dish. Put two bay-leaves and a little more of the oil into another saucepan, boil up, pour in a little vinegar, and boil for a minute longer ; pour this over the fish, and serve. Tunny Omelet.—Put the soft roes of two carp into a sauce pan of boiling salted water, blanch them for five minutes, take them out, drain, and chop them up with 2oz. or 3oz. of Tunny and 1 shallot. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add the Tunny mix- ture, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes, but without letting the butter boil, or the roe will become hard. In the meantime, put a lump of butter into another saucepan, warm it, sprinkle over a little chopped chives and parsley, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon- juice, and turn the whole out on to the dish in which the omelet is to be served, keeping it hot in the oven until wanted. Break a dozen eggs into a basin, beat them well, stir in the cooked fish, pour the mixture into an omelet- pan with a little butter, and cook it, keeping it rather thick. Take it out carefully, put it on the dish in the oven, and serve at once. TURBAK-.—A term applied by French cooks to an arrangement of a dish in such a manner that it represents one of these famous head-dresses. The dish is then called en turban. TURBOT (Fr. Turbot; Ger. Steinbutte; Ital. Rornbo; Sp. Rodaballo).—The king of flat fish, the pheasant of the sea. The Turbot (Rhombus maximus) is certainly most highly prized by epicures, and deservedly so, for its flesh is white, delicate, and deliciously flavoured. They are in season all the year round in some fisheries, but from March to August they are in their prime, when, in spite of their great size—often weighing from 301b. to 401b.—they are very expensive. It is a broad, flat fish (see Fig. 881), thick and fleshy, with a gelatinous skin, the upper-skin being dark and studded with sliell-like bony tubercles, and the under-skin usually white. Sometimes the under-skin is as dark as the top, a circumstance that the fishmonger endeavours to make capital of, for it is generally admitted that the flesh under the upper- Turbot —continued. skin or back is the best, and that being dark-coloured it is assumed that the quality of the flesh is therefore neces- sarily influenced by the colour of the skin. Sometimes a Turbot has red marks over the white skin, which disfigures it in the eyes of a gourmet; but as the spots can be removed by rubbing them with salt and lemon, and the flesh is quite as good, they may be purchased with confi- dence and at a somewhat lower cost. Turbots are caught along the south and east coasts of England, and are also brought from Norway and Holland, those from the latter country being considered the best fish. Those caught on the Dogger Bank rank first; then come those from Norway and Devonshire, and last of all are the Scotch. When cooked the flesh should be firm and curdy, with- out being hard or woolly; it is better kept for two or three days after catching if the weather is not too warm. In purchasing this fish very much must be left to the knowledge of the purveyor, as it is impossible to judge of its quality by appearances. For boiling Turbot whole a large vessel called a Turbot- kettle (see Fig. 885) is used. Full directions for cooking Turbot will be found in the following receipts : Aspic of Turbot.—Trim off the skin and cut the flesh of some cooked Turbots into nice-shaped pieces. Pour a thin layer of aspic jelly into a plain mould, and when it lias nearly set put in a layer of the Turbot and layers of fillets of anchovies, stoned olives, truffles, gherkins, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Strew in here and there a few capers and sweet capsicums, and pour jelly over each layer until the mould is full. Keep it in a coid place until the jelly is quite firm. Put a layer of tartar sauce on a dish, turn the aspic carefully out of the mould on to it, and serve. Baked Fillets of Turbot.—Wash and clean a small Turbot, cut off the four fillets or the flesh between the fins and centre of the backbone, cut these up into squares, put them into a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan in a quick oven, and bake the fish for about ten minutes, turning the pieces over so as to have them equally cooked on 'both sides. Take them out, put them on a dish in the same way as cutlets, pour shrimp, oyster, Dutch, or any other similar sauce over, and serve. Baked Stuffed Turbot.—(1) Clean a Turbot, and dry it thoroughly; remove the skin from the under-side, but do not cut it off. Make a stufling of morels, scallions, parsley, and sweet herbs all chopped very fine, seasoned with salt and pepper, and mixed together with beaten yolk of egg. Spread this stuffing all over the under part of the fish, turn the skin back over it, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in a basin before the fire, then beat up in it the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs chopped fine, and a little pepper and salt. Brush the fish all over with this, dredge breadcrumbs over it, and bake.