665 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. as far from it as the soft parts will allow. Press hard upon the shell if the edge is to be used as a guide ; cut away all round, raising the shell, and dissecting so that as much white, or “ chicken ” meat, may be removed as possible; but be careful not to cut into the entrails. When that shell is re moved, the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, &c., can be taken out and cast into water; in some cases these are not esteemed, but are thrown away. Under the liver is the gall, which must not be wounded, or a quantity of meat, fat, &c., will be spoiled. Look out for the green fat, and collect it carefully from the fin sockets and around the edges of the shell ; but do not be surprised if you do not find any, as some Turtles do not possess it, although good enough otherwise to all intents and purposes ; place that also in cold water for future use. The dark “ beef ” meat or calipash, may next be removed from the back shell, and then the shells are sawn up, and the pieces, together with the head, boiled into stock. It is usually understood that Turtle is a combination of fish (green fat), flesh (calipash), and fowl (calipee), and all these parts have their separate uses and require indi- vidual treatment. The “ fowl ” is used for soups and white entrees, and it takes very little cooking. The “ flesh ” is harder, coarser, and tougher, and makes good steaks, pie, fricandeau, etc. The “ fish ” is prized for the soup. The fins are looked upon by gourmets as next in value to the fat—by some even more highly prized. They have to be scalded and peeled before being used, and then there are several ways of preparing them for serving. The following is given as the West Indian mode of dressing Turtle : A Turtle weighing about 501b. will be required. Hang it up by its lins, chop oil' its head, and let it bleed until the next day. Cut out the calipee or belly shell, securing as much of the white meat attached to it as possible, and put it to soak for lialf-an-hour in a bowl of salted spring water. Cut off the fins, put them into a basin or saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain until they are sufficiently scalded to be easily cleaned. Takeout the intestines and lungs, being careful not to injure the gall, wash them thoroughly in warm water, scraping them well with a knife to remove the inside skin, put them into a saucepan with about 2galls. of water, and boil them until tender. The liver should not be used, as it gives the Turtle a black appearance when cooked. Cut out all the white meat from the upper shell and put it into a basin of cold spring water. Saw the upper shell about 2in. deep all round, put it into boiling water to scald, take it out, and remove the thin shell. Cut in pieces a knuckle of veal and two calf’s or neat’s feet, put them into a saucepan with four large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2oz. each of cloves and mace, and poui- over 3galls. of water. Boil up once, skim well, boil for three hours without ceasing, and strain off the liquor. Take about 21b. of the white meat of the Turtle without bones, and trim the pieces to sizes about as large as an egg. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, add the pieces of white meat from the veal, place the saucepan over a slow- fire, and cook very gently until the meat is quite tender; put the lungs and part of the back shell into a saucepan, pour over the veal and neat’s or calf’s feet stock, season highly with basil, sweet marjoram, thyme, winter savoury, and parsley, all finely chopped, and one dozen bruised corns of allspice, put in two onions and half a-dozen shallots, also in small pieces, and stew gently until the whole is quite tender. Take out the meat, strain the liquor into another saucepan, place the fins in it, and cook them also until tender, and take them out when done. Put Mb. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, sprinkle in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir well until quite smooth. Pour in slowly the liquor in which the fins and white meat were cooked, stir well until it boils, add 1 pint of Madeira and a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Cut the lungs and the piece of the back shell in pieces, put them into the saucepan with the liquor, and add the two hind fins, each cut into three pieces, and the remainder of the white Turtle meat, and cook for a Turtle—continued. quarter-of-an-hour. Put a stiff paste round the back shell, decorate it with leaves or other ornamentations, sprinkle the inside over with salt and cayenne, put in the lungs and pieces of shell, hind fins, and white Tm-tle meat, squeeze over the juice of two lemons, add a few forcemeat- and-egg balls, and bake for about two hours in a mode- rate oven. Raise the meat attached to the calipee or bottom shell, stuff it with forcemeat, score it on the top, season it highly with chopped basil, marjoram, thyme, winter savoury, and beaten spice, place a few lumps of butter here and there, sprinkle over salt and cayenne, put a rim of paste round the edge, and bake for three hours. Put the 21b. of white meat and all the Turtle bones into a saucepan, pour over some of the stock and lqt. of water, add a large bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, and mace, and cook until the soup is sufficiently done. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add a thickening of flour and butter to give it the consistency of cream, pour in 1 pint of Madeira, season to taste with salt and cayenne, and boil gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, skim- ming frequently. Prepare in a saucepan a thickening of flour and butter, using about 1 table-spoonful of each; pour in gradually the liquor in which the fins w’ere stewed, and stir well over the fire until it boils; add salt and cayenne to taste, the juice of a lemon, and a tumblerful of Madeira, place in the fore fins and a few forcemeat and-egg balls, and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and flour into another saucepan, and stir well until quite smooth ; arid gradually 3 breakfast-cupfuls of hock, and stir well until it boils; add the intestines and maw cut into pieces about 3in. long, and stew for about fifteen minutes, seasoning well with salt and cayenne, and add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with 2 breakfast cupfuls of cream and flavoured with nutmeg. Stir well until the liquor is about to boil, remove the pan from the fire, shaking it frequently, and add lastly the juice of a lemon. All the different parts will now be ready to be served. Turn the soup into a tureen, place it in the centre of the table, and place the calipash and calipee at either end, with the fiicassee and fins at the side. Many modern cooks object to using the in- testines, as giving much trouble and being of doubtful value. Braised Turtle.—Cut off’ one of the fleshy parts of a Turtle, form it into shape, lard it with small fillets of anchovies, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper to taste, put it into a basin, and add some slices of vegetables and a little sweet herbs. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar into a saucepan, add a few cloves and pepper- corns, place the pan on the fire, reduce the liquid to h teacupful, let it get cold, pour it over the Turtle, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put the slices of vegetables at the bottom of a flat saucepan, place the noix on the top, pour over the liquor, cover the Turtle over with paper, place the lid on the pan with hot ashes on the top, anil braise on a moderate fire for about two hours. Take out the meat, drain it, put it on a dish, pour over poivrade sauce, spiinkle over a little chopped gherkin, and serve. Egg Balls for Turtle Soup.—Put the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs into a basin, break them up, and mix them with the yolk of a raw egg. Form the paste into small balls, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for two minutes to get hard, and they are ready for use. Forcemeat Balls for Turtle Soup.—Cut off a small portion of the vealy part of a Turtle, mince it very fine, and mix it up with a small quantity of boned anchovy and boiled celery, the yolk of one or two hard-boiled eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, with mace, cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; add a little oyster liquor, a small quantity of warmed butter and well- whisked egg. Form the paste into balls, plunge them into a frying pan of boiling butter or fat, fry them to a good colour, and they are ready for use. They should be added hot to the soup. Fricandeau of Turtle.—Lard the inside shoulder fillet of a raw Turtle with firm bacon fat, and braise it for an hour.