464 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. mould on to a dish, stick some slices of hard-boiled eggs on it with ravigote butter, and serve. (2) Trim the fillets of one pair of Soles, saute them in a saute-pan with some fresh butter, a little pepper, and the juice of a lemon; when done press them between two dishes, anti when cold trim and cut each fillet into two collops and ornament each with lobster coral, hard-boiled yolks of eggs nibbed through a wire sieve, and some finely-chopped black truffles. Pack a mould in ice, put in a little liquid jelly, and let this set. Decorate the mould with the boiled whites of eggs and truffles, cut up into thin slices, and stamped or cut out in different shapes; having done this put in a little more jelly, and when set arrange the fillets of Soles round the mould. This should be done very carefully so as not to disturb the decorations. Fill the mould up by degrees with aspic jelly and when set and ready for use dip the mould in hot water and turn the contents out in the usual way. Ornament the base of the mould with picked prawns and croutons of coloured aspic jelly. (3) Separate the fillets from the bones of one or two pairs of Soles; put a lump of butter in a stewpan with a few drops of lemon-juice, melt it, put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire. When the fillets are cooked, drain and press them between two plates until cold. Next divide each fillet into three pieces, put them in a basin, dust them over with salt and pepper, baste them with oil and vinegar, and let them macerate for an hour or two. Cut into fancy shapes some hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, and arrange them in a border-mould, fixing them in with liquid aspic jelly; then fill up the mould with the jelly and stand it in a cool place until set. Wash and dry two or three lettuces and cut them into fine shreds. Turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, and put some of the lettuce in the centre; drain the fillets, pile them up high on the lettuce, arrange the remainder of the lettuce as a garnish round the outside of the jelly border, pour some mayonnaise sauce over the fish, and serve. (4) Separate the fillets from the bones of two large pairs of Soles, cut the fillets into pieces 2in. long, and trim them to an oval shape. Butter a baking-dish, put in the fillets, dust over a little pepper and salt, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and bake them. When cooked, drain the fillets and press them between two plates till cold. Mix a little white aspic jelly with some green mayonnaise sauce, then dip the fillets in it, and lay them on a dish till the sauce is cold. Mask the bottom of a plain cylinder-mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, ornament it tastefully with slices of truffles and tongue, then pour in some more aspic jelly to about Jin. in thickness, and leave it till set. Arrange a circle of fillets of Soles on the set jelly, pour in some more jelly, and leave that also till set; then put on a reverse circle of the fillets, and continue as before till the mould is full. Pack the mould in ice and leave it for two hours. Prepare a socle of rice on a dish, and coat it with lobster butter. Dip the mould into hot water, then wipe it, and turn the contents out on to the socle, garnish round with chopped aspic and croutons of aspic, and serve. Baked Fillets of Soles.—Butter a plate, lay the fillets of two Soles on it, and sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon-juice; butter a piece of thin white paper, lay it over them, and put them in a hot oven for ten minutes or a-quarter-of-an-hour, according to size. Have ready a sauce made of |oz. of flour mixed quite smooth with Soles—continued. 1 table-spoonful of cream or milk, and a little fish liquor made by stewing the bones and skins of the Soles, some chopped parsley, and |oz. of butter boiled together for ten minutes. When the fillets are done, put them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Strew chopped parsley over the fish, and garnish with button mushrooms, placing a little lobster coral, if handy, on each mush- room top (see Fig. 602), and serve. Baked Fillets of Soles with Forcemeat.—Skin the Soles, and divide each one into four fillets, by passing the knife Vic tween the flesh and backbone; spread some fish force- meat over the fillets and roll them. Put a thin layer of the forcemeat in a baking-dish, and place in the fillets, filling up the spaces between each with more forcemeat; sprinkle finely-grated breadcrumb over them, put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Soles in the same dish. Baked Fillets of Soles with Mushrooms.—(1) Lift the fdlets carefully off the bones of the Soles and roll them up, tying them with a thread ; lay them side by side in a buttered pie-dish, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Place the trim- mings of the Soles in a stewpan with a sliced carrot, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, and sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in a little less than 1 pint of clear stock, and boil gently for an hour. Put loz. of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir them over the fire till mixed but not browned, then strain in the above liquor and stir until boiling again, then put in eighteen preserved button-mushrooms. Bake the fillets of Soles in a good oven, beat the yolk of an egg with a small quantity of milk, and stir it into the sauce, moving the saucepan off the fire. When the fillets are cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce and mushrooms in the centre, and serve. (2) Lift the fillets off the bones of three Soles, divide each fillet into halves, and trim them all to a like shape. Thickly butter a baking-tin, put in the fillets, dust them over with salt and white pepper, and covei them with a ■* sheet of buttered paper. Cut about If,lb. of large mush- rooms into four pieces each, rubbing each one with lemon as it is done. Put them in a saucepan with salted water to cover, and boil them until tender. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it until well mixed, then pour in as much of the cooking-water of the mushrooms as will bring the sauce to the proper con- sistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Put the dish with the fillets of Soles in a brisk oven, and cook them for about twenty minutes. When baked, arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and put the mushrooms in the centre. Strain the butter from the baking-tin into the sauce, stir it well, and pour it over the mushrooms, but not round the fillets. Serve while hot. Baked Fillets of Soles -with. Tarragon Sauce.—Separate the fillets from the bones of the Soles, divide them length- wise into strips, and twist them into knots ; butter a baking- dish, lay the fillets in it, cover them 'with a sheet of buttered paper, ami bake in a moderate oven. Put about 1-joz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, then work in smoothly \ pint of milk, and stir it until boiling. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, and put in plenty of finely- chopped tarragon-leaves; let it simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Baked Larded Fillets of Soles with Forcemeat.—Remove the fillets from some Soles and lard them ; put some thin slices of bacon in a deep pan, and stick a large truffle in the centre. Lay the larded fillets of Soles in the saucepan, with alternate layers of fillets of mullet, and filling up all the spaces left with some fish quenelle forcemeat, putting a thick layer of the forcemeat on the top. Place some finely-minced ham and onions in a saucepan with a lump of butter, stir- over the fire for a few minutes, then add