446 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c. referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. and pour it round them, and serve with onion sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Sheep’s Tongues.—(1) Put two or three Sheep’s Tongues into a saucepan with water, and boil them until the skin can easily be removed, which will take about two hours. Skin them, cut lengthwise into halves, and put them into a saucepan with a little each of parsley, mushrooms, chopped shallot, butter, salt and pepper, and pour over sufiieient gravy to moisten. Put the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until the tongues are tender. Put them on a dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve. (2) Put the tongues in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil them gently until the skin will peel off easily. Split the tongues lengthwise, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, a few finely-chopped mushrooms and shallots, some choj>ped parsley, and a sufficient quantity of clear rich gravy to cover them. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew them until tender. When oooked, lay the slices of tongue on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a small quantity of flour kneaded in butter, and when ready, pour it over the tongues. Garnish them with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. SHEEP’S TROTTERS.—See Sheep’s Feet. SHEEP’S-HEAD PISH.—This is a large and valuable food fish (Diplodus, probatocephalus) which is caught along the Atlantic coasts of America. The head with its teeth is supposed to have some sort of resemb- lance to a sheep’s head, hence its name. The flesh is white and flaky, and the body thick and ckumpy, so that a fish weighing 81b. or 101b. yields a very large propor- tion of boneless meat. It is highly esteemed wherever it can be obtained, and constitutes an important item in the American fish-market. Boiled Sheep’s-head Pish.—Thoroughly clean and wash the fish, mb it over with dry salt, and soak it in cold water for one hour. Remove it from the water, wipe it dry, score it several times across both sides, and rub it with a lemon cut into halves. Lay the fish on a drainer on a fish- kettle, cover it with cold water and milk equally mixed, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, let it gradually boil, and Fig. 569. Boiled Sheep’s-head Fish. then gently simmer for lialf-an-hour. In dishing the fish, be careful to transfer it from the kettle to a dish without breaking it. Pour a little of the cooking liquor round (see Fig. 569), and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Sheep’s-head-Fish Salad.—Pick the flesh off a cold boiled Sheep’s-head Fish, and cut it into small pieces. Put some crisp cabbage lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, put in the fish, strew some minced capers over it, and about 1 tea- spoonful of Worcester sauce. Pour a mayonnaise dress- ing over the salad, garnish it with small squares of beetroot and slices of hard-boiled egg, and serve. Stewed Sheep's-head Pish a la Croole.—Put one chopped onion and one very finely-chopped green chilli, with the seed extracted, into a stewpan, and brown them in | gill of oil for five minutes; add one tomato cut in pieces, four sliced mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic. Season well with 1 pinch of salt and i pinch of pepper, then moisten with 4 pint of Spanish sauce. Cut Sheep’s-head Fish—continued. a fish weighing 31b. into six slices, lay them flat in the stewpan, pour over 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and cook for one hour over a very slow fire. When ready to serve, sprinkle over with a pinch of chopped parsley, and decorate with six pieces of heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. The fish can be left whole instead of dividing it into slices, if desired. Serve the sauce in a sauceboat. SHELLS.—See Coquilles. SHELL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. SHELL-FISH.—This term is applied to any kind of aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell. These may be either testaceous, as oysters, clams, cockles, scallops, and other molluscs; or crustaceous, as lobsters, prawns, shrimps, crayfish, or crabs. All these are described under their own headings. SHEPHERD’S PIE.—See Pies. ( SHERBET (TV. Sorbet; Ger. Sorbet; Ital. Sorbetto; Sp. Sorbete).—This is described as a refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit diluted, sweetened, and flavoured in various ways. From this it will be seen that an immense number of these delicious drinks might be manufactured, each fruit admitting of several varieties and combinations. In Turkey Sherbet is frequently flavoured with flowers, and Professor Simmonds informs us that in 1662 an adver- tisement appeared in the London papers that among the beverages sold at a certain confectioner’s was to be found “ Sherbet made in Turkie, of lemons, roses, and violets.” A decoction of barley-meal and sugar, perfumed with roses, orange-flowers, violets, or citron forms a pleasant Sherbet. The following are also good receipts: (1) Put 21b. of sugar and lqt. of water into a sauce- pan and boil it to a syrup. Put 4oz. of stoned raisins into a basin with 4oz. of chopped figs, six cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Pour the syrup over the above articles, and leave it till cool. Strain and colour the syrup a delicate pink with a little prepared cochineal, add the juice of six oranges, two lemons, and a small quantity of cinnamon, three or four cloves, and lqt. nf port wine. Turn the mixture into the freezer, and freeze it. When frozen, take the cloves and cinnamon out of the mixture, add the scalded raisins and figs, 1-lb. of muscatel grapes, and Jib. of blanched almonds. When well mixed, the Sherbet is ready for use. (2) Put two pounds of coarsely crushed loaf'sugar into a preserving-pan with f of a pint of cold water and the beaten white and shell of one egg, and stir the whole over the fire until the sugar has dissolved; then remove the spoon. When the syrup boils fast, pour in J pint of water, and remove the scum which it will send to the top. When it again boils, remove it to the side of the fire, and let it settle; then remove any more scum that may have risen to the top. Boil the syrup again and skim it. When cold, flavour the syrup with 11 drachms of essence of almonds, and bottle it for use. Keep it well corked and in a dry cupboard. Next make the Sherbet, allowing eight moderate sized sticks of rhubarb for every quart of water, cut it up into small pieces, put them in a pan with the water, and boil for ten minutes. Strain the liquor from the rhubarb, and mix with it a few drops of essence of lemon. When cold, pour the rhubarb liquor into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. When serving, sweeten some of the rhubarb liquor with some of the clarified syrup. The rhubarb pulp can be sweetened and used for making tarts. (3) Put 21b. of moist sugar in a pan with lqt. of cold water and the beaten whites of two eggs, and boil them till reduced to a somewhat thick syrup. Next mix with it 1 pint of the best vinegar and a small bunch of freshly- gathered mint tied in a small piece of muslin. Boil the whole for fifteen minutes longer, then strain the Sherbet and leave it until cool. Pour it into bottles and cork them well. This Sherbet should be taken mixed with