THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, sec under their special heads. TAMARA.—In Italian kitchens it is usual to keep a stock of mixed spice under this name. It is prepared as follows: Mix in a mortar, grinding thoroughly, 2oz. each of cinnamon, cloves, and coriander-seeds, and loz. each of aniseed and fennel-seed. Some add loz. of celery-seed to this. TAMARINDS (Fr. Tamarins; Ger. Tamarinden; Ital. Tamarindi; Sp. Tamarindos).—The fruit of the Tama- rind tree (Tamarindus indica) is usually imported into this country preserved in syrup. It grows in the form of a bean (see a, Pig. 748) from very beautiful bunches of flowers set amongst elegant pinnate leaves (see b, Fig. 748). The calyx of the flower is yellow, the petals yellow streaked with red, the filaments purple, and the anthers brown. Added to this the flower yields a delicious perfume. The Fig. 748. Tamarinds. fruit, or bean, consists of a brittle brown shell, within which is a soft acid brown pulp, traversed by strong woody fibres. Before preserving Tamarinds the outer skins are removed. Preserved Tamarinds.—Put a layer of sugar at the bottom of a wide-mouthed jar or bottle, cover over with a layer of stoned Tamarinds, and continue in this way until the jar or bottle is full, having the top layer of sugar rather thick. Cover over the jar or bottle with oiled bladder, tying it down securely, put it in a cool dry place, and it will keep good for years. Tamarind Chutney (Indian).—Put 41b. of stoned ripe Tamarinds into a glazed earthenware pan, and mix in 2lb. of ground cinnamon, 4,1b. each of well-washed and dried currants and stoned raisins, 21b. of moist sugar, and 4oz. each of salt, ground garlic, chillies, and ginger. Pour over sufficient vinegar (about lqt.) to cover, and simmer over a quick tire till all the liquor is absorbed and the chutney is sufficiently thick, stirring continually. Remove the pan from the fire, let the contents get cold, put it into bottles, and the chutney is then ready for use. If preferred, the sugar and vinegar may he boiled to a syrup before being added. Tamarind Cup.—Put 14oz. of Tamarinds in a saucepan with 3oz. of well-washed currants, and 2oz. of raisins, pour in 3 pints of water, and boil them. When the liquor is well flavoured with the Tamarinds, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, put in a piece of lemon-peel, and leave it until cold. Before serving, the lemon-peel should be removed. This makes a very refresh- ing drink in the summer, especially when iced. Tamarind Drink.—Put 2oz. of Tamarinds into a saucepan with f qt. of cold milk, and let them simmer at the side of the fire for an hour. At the end of that time stir the liquid well, sweeten it to taste with sugar, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Or the Tamarinds may be boiled in water for an hour-and-a-half, then strained, and sweetened with treacle. Tamarind Fish.—(1) Remove all the scales and fins from two fresh hilsa fish or herrings, which should have good | Tamarinds - continued. roes, chop off the heads and tails, take out the roes, wash the fish inwardly, and cut them up into slices about lin. in thickness. In the meantime, prepare a thick pickle with ripe Tamarinds, vinegar, and salt, straining it to exclude all the stones and fibres. Lay the slices of fish and roes on a dish, cover with salt, and let them remain for four or five hours. Wash off all the salt with a little vinegar, put a layer of the pickle at the bottom of a wide mouthed bottle or jar, put in the fish, covering each piece with the pickle, cork up the bottle, tying it over with bladder to exclude the air, let it remain for about three weeks, and it will be ready for use. The bottle or jar should be of the size to just contain the fish, as it must be quite full. This preparation will remain good for months. (2) Put lqt. of vinegar and 21b. of Tamarinds into a sauce- pan, boil well until the latter are cooked and the seeds and stalks leave the pulp, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Cut up into |in. pieces any fish, such as herring, mackerel, or cod, rub them with salt, and leave them to pickle for two days; then dip the pieces of fish into the Tamarind pickle. When cold pack the fish in large jars, and cover the top well over with the Tamarind pulp. Let them remain in this for a few days, when they are ready for use, but should be well drained before serving. Anglo- Indians are exceedingly fond of this dish served in the centre of a curry. Tamarind Sauce for Game, Cutlets, &c.—Peel and slice 1 onion, put it in an enamelled stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry over a moderate fire until cooked and nicely browned, hut not burnt. Put in with the onions, 4oz. of Tamarinds, 1 bay-leaf, and a few cloves, moisten them with 1 pint of clear beef gravy and 1 wineglassful of claret, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the sauce boil gently for half-an-hour at the side of the fire. Colour the sauce a rich dark brown with burnt sugar, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve it either hot or cold. Tamarind Syrup.—Put 6oz. of Tamarinds into an earthen stewpan, pour in 2 pints and 1 teacupful of water, place it over the fire, and boil it until reduced to 14 pints. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan without the Tamarinds, mix in 31b. of sugar, stir it for a few minutes, then boil it for half a minute. Leave the syrup until nearly cold, then pass it through a silk sieve, or a piece of clean cloth, bottle it, and cork securely. Tamarind Water.—Put 2oz. of Tamarinds and 4oz. of stoned raisins into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for an hour. Strain the liquor into a basin, let it cool, and it is ready for use. TAMMY (Fr. Tamis; Ger. Stamin).—A kind of woollen cloth, also known as taminy, used for straining fruit syrups, liquid jellies, etc. The French cook uses the term “ tamis ” for a fine meshed sieve of any kind, the word having originated from the cloth used at one time to form the sieve or strainer. TANGERINES.—See Oranges. TANKARDS.—The origin of this historical term is doubtful, unless it can be in some way associated with the English word tank, signifying a vessel for holding liquid. At one time wooden tubs bound together with iron hoops, and used for carrying water, were known as Tankards; but, as drinking-vessels, the first we read of them in history is about the middle of the sixteenth century, although, according to Arbuthnot, “ Marius, a Roman general and consul, was the first who drank out of a silver Tankard after the manner of Bacchus.” Vessels remarkably like Tankards have been found in Pompeian, Trojan, and other excavations, excepting as regards the lid, which seems to have been an important feature of what we now know as Tankards, although more modern Tankards are not so fitted. One of the earliest Tankards known is preserved at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and bears the date 1571. It is