497 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Spanish Nuts—continued. and remove their skins. Grate the nuts very fine. Put lib. of powdered white sugar in a sugar-pan over the fire, and stir it constantly till it is all melted; add the grated nuts, and work them well into the sugar. When nuts and sugar are thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture on to a tin sheet and roll it out very quickly with a rolling-pin; let it cool, and cut it into any shape desired. Spanish-Nut Cream Ice.—Break and remove the shells of 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish Nuts, place them in the oven to loosen their skins, which afterwards rub off; put them into a mortar and pound them to a paste with a small quantity of milk. Turn this into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and mix in the yolks of five eggs and 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Stir well over the fire to form a custard, pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, freeze, and it is then ready for use and may be moulded if desired. Spanish Nuts Pralines.—Put lib. of shelled Spanish Nuts into a pan over the fire with a little water and lib. of loaf sugar, and let them boil till they begin to sparkle, then take the pan from the fire, and with a wooden spoon stir the nuts well till the sugar begins to feel gritty; put them over a slow fire to dissolve the sugar again, continue to stir that the nuts may get well covered with sugar, and when they turn reddish and are sufficiently covered with sugar take them from the fire, pour them on to a sieve, cover the sieve with a clean cloth, and set it in a stove; this will dry the sugar on the nuts and make them look glossy. SPANISH ONIONS.—Nee Onions. SPANISH PUFFS— Nee Puffs. SPANISH SALAD.—Nee Salads. SPANISH SAUCE (&, l’Espagnole).—The cele- brated Kettner, in his “Book of the Table,” makes the following observations concerning this famous standard sauce : “ Spanish Sauce has, for more than a century, been the chief sauce in Europe. The name is rather absurd, and now means no more than brown sauce of the finest quality. For centuries there were Spanish Sauces of one kind or another adopted in France, but it was a new thing for the French in the last century to give the name of the Spaniard to their most elaborate gravy. The great cooking authority, in the middle of the last century, when Louis Y. reigned in all his glory, was Menon, and his books clearly show what the sauce was intended to be. Its grand peculiarity was to have a double supply of ham, which predominated over every other ingredient. These were days when it was supposed that no sauce could be made good without ham. In Menon’s receipts for family use nearly all the sauces have for their foundation one slice of ham and one slice of veal boiled down in broth. The Spanish Sauce had two slices of ham, and grew into such favour that it seemed to eclipse all the other brown sauces, and to be worthy of the most lavish adornment. In later days, when this system of adorn- ment was at its height, one of the receipts for it, already quoted, begins with the direction: Take twelve ducks, a ham, two bottles of old Madeira, and 61b. of fine truffles. While the ham was the chief thing in the sauce, there was reason for calling it Spanish, but gradually the influence of the ham has been diminished. The share of it allowed to Spanish Sauce is allowed to other sauces, and the quantity has been so much reduced in proportion to beef and veal that it is doubtful whether it has any^ effect worth aiming at. Spanish Sauce has no longer a Spanish characteristic—save its brownness; and at last a great cook (Gouffe) has been bold enough to strike the ham wholly out of the sauce, which is in his receipt, but a good gravy of beef and veal finished with roux.” For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II Spanish Sauce—continued. The history of Spanish Sauce is so well told in the foregoing quotation that it is unnecessary to add to it, except to state that some of the best receipts for its preparation will be found under Sauces. SPANISH SOUFFLES.—Nee Souffles. SPANISH WINES.—Spain has ever been famous for its wines, made from the grapes which ripen so lusciously in the vineyards planted along its sunny mountain slopes. Xeres, Malaga, Rota, Montilla, Carig- uena, Val de Penas, Sitges, Piralta, and numerous other localities, produce excellent wines, celebrated all over the world for their delightful aroma and bouquet. The wines of Old Castile are very good and strong, and those of Aragon are deep in colour and flavour. Catalonia, Barcelona, and Tarragona, are all good, the three latter passing through the “ rectifying ” houses of France before they reach us, and suffering some sort of modification of the original. Of the sherries Amontillado is a pale dry variety. Manzanilla is also a light pale wine, possessing a peculiar bitter taste resembling chamomile, from which it derives its name. Malaga wines are all sweet, luscious, dark brown, and very heavy. The import of Spanish wines to this country stands second in importance to Portuguese, and third as regards France, all three being exceptionally high. SPARE-RIBS.—The breast ribs of pork from which the shoulder has been cut. SPARROWS.—It is only in England that these birds of the Fringillidx family are eaten under their own name. As larks it is possible that many are invested with a nominal value that can scarcely be said to belong to them. Sparrow Dumpling.—Clean the birds, and put a lump of butter rolled in pepper and salt into each one. Beat three eggs with h pint of milk and a little salt, then mix in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff batter. Put the Sparrows in a basin, pour the batter over them, tie a cloth over, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the dumpling for half-an-hour. Prepare a butter sauce. When cooked, turn the dumpling on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Sparrow Fie.—Pluck, singe, and clean twelve Sparrows. Soak a slice of crumb of bread in 1 teacupful of milk, then beat it up and mix with it the finely-minced peel of half a lemon, a small bunch of finely-chopped sweet herbs; 2oz. of butter, and a seasoning to taste of salt and pepper. Put the above mixture into a saucepan and stir it over a slow fire till it becomes firm, then stuff the Sparrows with it. Butter the edge of a pie-dish, and put a strip of puff paste round it. Line the bottom of the dish with rump steak that has been lightly fried, and season with pepper and salt; cover the meat with slices of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, then put the birds on it; cover them with some more slices of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and pour in a little rich gravy. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; brush it over with a paste brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and make a bole in the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for an-hour and a half. Sparrows in Potatoes.—(1) Dress as many birds as are required, stuff them with any kind of plain forcemeat, brush them over with egg, cover with finely-sifted bread- crumbs, plunge them into sufficient boiling fat to cover, and fry them. Take them out and drain thoroughly. Cut as many large potatoes as there are birds into halves; after peeling them, scoop out part of the inside from each of the halves sufficiently deep to admit the birds, brush the halves with white of egg, place a bird between two, as for SURPRISE POTATOES (see Fig. 629), fasten with string, put on a baking-sheet, baste with butter or bacon fat, put in the oven until cooked a light golden colour, take them out, and wipe dry. Place them on a dish, garnish until i any desired garnish, and serve with white cream sauce. Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 K