475 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sorrel—continued. the boiling. When cooked, drain the Sorrel and chop it, pass it through a line hair sieve into a saucepan, mix with it a little flour and milk, season with pepper and salt, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Mix a lump of butter with the Sorrel, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Puree of Sorrel with. Tench.—Wash and pick the Sorrel, put it into a stewpan with a little water, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes, then drain it, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put two carrots, one onion, one leek, and a piece of eelery-root, all finely minced, into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire ; when lightly browned, pour in. with them 3 pints of boiling water, add some trimmings of mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, a few cloves, a little salt, and two moderately large tench that have been cleaned and cut into pieces. Boil the fish gently till cooked, then drain them and strain the broth. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and Jib. of butter into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then put in the puree of Sorrel, and continue stirring it for a few minutes; then pour in gradually the cooking- liquor of the fish, continue stirring it till it boils, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Bone and skin the tench, put the fillets into the soup, and thicken it with a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs with broth. After the eggs are added, the liquor should not boil up again, but should be stirred by the side of the fire till thick. Turn the puree into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Sorrel au Gras.—Prepare and cook the Sorrel as for Sorrel au Maigre, adding enough butter to form it into a perfect pulp (14oz. should be sufficient). Stir it until it begins to bubble, then moisten it with J pint of gravy, stock, or reduced broth. Cook it for five minutes, and use the puree as a sauce. Sorrel au Maigre.—Pick off the stems from \ peck of Sorrel, wash it in several waters, drain, and chop it up with a well-cleaned head of lettuce ; then add half a bunch of chervil, and chop all together very fine. Place all in a saucepan, stir well together on the hot stove for three minutes, and place it in the oven until the vegetables are tender; then add ljoz. of butter, and stir again for about ten minutes, or until the Sorrel is reduced to a pulp. Season with 1 pinch of salt and t pinch of pepper, pour into it a thickening of two yolks of eggs and h breakfast- cupful of cream, stir well without boiling, and serve. Sorrel-and-Lentil Soup.—Pick a few leaves of Sorrel and wash them well, chop them, put them into a saucepan in which a pat of butter has been melted and stew them for about half-an-hour. Boil tlb. of lentils in plenty of water, then strain the water into the saucepan with the Sorrel; add nearly a teacupful of well-washed rice and a little essence of beef. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two or three hours, stirring them occasionally. Season the soup to taste with pepper and salt, pour it into a tureen, and serve it. Sorrel Salad.—Procure some Sorrel, wash it well in several waters, then put it on a sieve to drain; if the leaves are Fig. 614. Sorrel Salad. large, break them in halves; but if small, they can be left whole. Put the Sorrel in a bowl with a variety of whatever other salad plants are in season (see. Fig 614), the Sorrel—continued. Sorrel being too acid to be eaten alone, cover it with a salad dressing in which vinegar is omitted, and serve. Common field Sorrel is excellent in vegetable salads, mixed with leaves of dandelions, and served with a bacon dressing. Sorrel Sauce.—(1) Mix together \ pint of green goose- berries well scalded, sugar to taste, a glass of white wine, loz. of butter, and J pint of Sorrel-juice. Give all a boil together, and serve. (2) Carefully wash lqt. of fresh green Sorrel-leaves, put them over the fire in plenty of boiling salted water, and boil them fast for about five minutes, or until they are tender. Drain them, and throw them into cold water until they are cold; drain again, rub them through a sieve with a masher, and put them into a porcelain-lined sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of white sugar, and enough brown gravy made from the drippings of a goose to make the sauce of the proper consistency. Serve it as soon as it is hot. It is usually served with roasted or baked goose. (3) Pick about 2 handfuls of Sorrel-leaves, wash them well, drain, and chop them. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in l pint of cream and a little stock. When boiling, add the Sorrel, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Boil the sauce for two or three minutes, and it will then be ready for serving. Sorrel Soup.—(1) Thoroughly wash Jib. of Sorrel, and cut it into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and make it hot; then put in the Sorrel, and toss it about over the fire for a few minutes. Pour 1 pint of bdchamel sauce over the Sorrel, and stew it gently for fifteen minutes, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and any kind of herbs liked. Cut some moderately thick slices of bread oil' a tin-loaf, toast or fry them in butter till lightly browned, and cut them into small squares; then put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and sen e. (2) Cut up tlb. of well-washed and picked Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter (about 2oz.), and stir it over the lire for a few minutes. Dredge in with the Sorrel 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix it well ; then pour in gradually, while stirring, \ pint of white stock. Let the soup simmer gently by the side of the lire for half an-hour, skimming it occasionally; then stir in the yolks of three eggs and h pint of milk that have been beaten together. Stir the soup by the side of the fire till thick, but it must not boil after the eggs are added. Mix in loz. of butter, and when this has dissolved pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast. (3) Cold.—Wash a quantity of Sorrel, drain it, and put it in a stewpan with some chervil, beet tops, and several crisp lettuces; put in also a bunch of parsley and a few finely-chopped button-onions, pour in a small quantity of water (just sufficient to keep them from burning), and let them simmer gently until nearly cooked ; then pour in some good broth that has been strained and well freed from fat. Boil the soup for a few minutes, then strain it into a basin and leave it until quite cold. Season the soup to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup- tureen, put in some very thin slices of lemon, and serve. Stewed Sorrel.—(1) Put some Sorrel that has been washed in several waters into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and stir it over the fire till it has melted. Drain the Sorrel, finely chop it with some trimmings of mushrooms, put the mixture into a stewpan with some little pieces of ham and a small lump of butter, and fry it. Next mix with them 1 teacupful of Spanish sauce, and leave it to stew gently by the side of the fire for an hour. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and put it in the saucepan again with a little stock broth, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and a little glaze. When hot, turn the Sorrel on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Wash the Sorrel well, put it into a stone jar with the water that clings to the leaves after the washing, set