TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 483 Soups—continued. Diplomatic Soup (a la Diplomate).—Blanch a beef palate for two minutes in boiling water, then scrape it well, drain, cook for one hour, and then cut it up into dice. Place it in a stewpan with 1 pint ot consomme, 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper; cover the stewpan, and cook the contents for half-an-liour. Put in another stewpan lqt. of stock, add the beef palates and twelve chicken quenelles or forcemeat balls, boil up, and serve. D’Orsay Soup (a la d’Orsay).—Place in a saucepan 1 pint each of bechamel sauce and broth, \ table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the lire for fifteen minutes. Add to this \ pint of cream of asparagus and loz. of butter. When finished boil- ing, put in a hot soup-tureen six soft-boiled and well pared pigeon-eggs, and the breast of one pigeon cut into small pieces; pour the Soup over, and serve. Dry Soup (Sopa Seca) (Portuguese).—Put as much stock as is required into a saucepan, then add slices of bread to make the stock thick with them; season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs (using plenty of mint), and add a very little butter. Bring the SoufJ slowly to the boil, remove the herbs (which sliould be tied up in a bunch), turn the Soup into a dish, and bake in a moderate oven until a brown crust is formed on the top. Serve hot. Duchess Soup (a la Duchesse).—(1) Put two large sliced onions into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, ami fry them for eight minutes. Sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry it for two minutes, stirring well to prevent it burning; then pour in gradually lqt. of boiling milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the tire for fifteen minutes. Strain the above mixture, put it back in the saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and set it over the fire. Beat three eggs with a little salt and pepper, then pour them through a strainer into the Soup. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the contents for a few minutes. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Chop into small pieces 61b. of veal, lib. of lean ham, and a calf’s foot. Put a small lump of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; then put in the meat, two sliced onions, and the peel of half a lemon ; pour in \ pint of broth, and stir all over a quick fire till a jelly forms at the bottom of the saucepan. Pour in h pint of rich brown gravy and 7qts. of water, and boil up; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmer- ing for two hours. Skim the Soup, and pass it through a silk sieve into another saucepan. Mix 2oz. of arrowroot till quite smooth with \ pint of cold water, then pour it into the Soup, stir it till boiling, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Cut the meat off a small cold braised chicken, trim it into small nice-shaped pieces, put them into the Soup with some veal forcemeat quenelles, and boil them; then turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Duke of Connaught Soup.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of coarsely-ground linseed-meal into a tin and bake in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, but without burn- ing. Cut off sufficient meat from a cold boiled fowl to fill a teacup. Put lqt. of brown stock and 11 pints of vegetable broth into a saucepan, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a few slices of carrot, and boil for a few minutes; strain into another saucepan, and keep it hot. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with the meal, stir it over the fire, add 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, and stir in the stock, adding it gradually. Put in the pieces of fowl, simmer for half-an-liour, and serve hot. Family Soup.—Thoroughly clean an ox-liead, break the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put them in a large pan with a peck of potatoes, 31b. each of turnips and onions, and 21b. of carrots, all peeled and cut down lengthwise ; also put in 3 pints of coarse oatmeal and a few pieces of parsley and celery. Pour over these in- gredients 5galls. of water, put the lid closely on the pan, and keep the contents simmering for eight or ten hours. It is well to make this Soup the day before serving it, Soups —continued. and, if possible, to keep it stewing all night. On the following day, replace with hot water the quantity that has been wasted in boiling, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep it stewing until ready to serve. This Soup makes a cheap but very good family dinner. Farmer's Soup.—Peel and finely chop two onions and one leek, put them into a stewpan with some bacon-fat, and fry them till lightly browned. Finely chop two carrots, one turnip, a root of celery, two lettuces, a few French beans, and half a cabbage; put them in with the onions and leek, and cook them over a slow fire till the moisture has evaporated. Blanch lib. of raw ham, then put it in with the vegetables, and pour in some broth. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the broth simmer for half-an-liour; then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of minced potatoes, and boil them gently till nearly cooked, when put in two shred lettuces, 1 handful of shred sorrel, and 1 pinch of chopped chervil. Finish cooking the Soup, then take out the ham. Put some slices of toasted bread into a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve. Fisherman’s Soup.—Same as Fisherman’s Wife’s Soup, with the exception of the roux used being brown instead of white. Fisherman’s Wife’s Soup (d, la Poissonniere).—Put Jib. of butter and 6oz. of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed and cooked but not browned, thus making a white roux; then take it off the fire, and leave it till cool. Blanch and beard four dozen mussels and two dozen oysters. Stir in gradually at first with the roux 2qts. of clear broth and lqt. of milk, add the bones of a sole, the liquor of the mussels and oysters, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, and I table-spoonful each of sugar and salt. Boil the Soup for an hour, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put some thin slices of salmon in the Soup with the fillets of a sole, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and 1 teacupful of cream; keep it simmering by the side of the lire till the fish is done. Put the blanched oysters and mussels in a soup- tureen, and when ready pour the Soup over them, and serve. Flemish Soup (a la Flamande).—(1) Put an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, anil onions cut into small pieces in a saucepan, with one head of lettuce, one head of endive, two leeks, a little chervil, a small lump of butter, and \ pint of either mutton or beef broth ; boil them gently until tender, stirring them occasionally, then pour in 2qts. of boiling broth, season it with pepper, salt, and sugar, and let it simmer for two hours. Beat the yolks of three eggs with h pint of cream, stir them in with the Soup, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (2) Peel lib. each of potatoes and turnips, put them into a saucepan with an onion and a head of celery, cover them with water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the vegetables are quite tender, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return the Soup to the saucepan, add some finely-minced parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves, and loz. of butter, and boil the Soup up again. Toast some slices of bread, cut them into squares or triangles, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve. (3) Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with four or five sliced onions and two heads of celery cut into small pieces, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in as much broth that has been skimmed as will be re- quired for the Soup. When the broth boils, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an hour. Peel some large potatoes, and boil them in salted water; when tender, put them in the Soup, and leave them till dissolved. Season the Soup with salt and pepper, pass it through a wir» sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and boil up again. Put some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Fou-Fou Soup.—Boil twelve plantains, and when cooked drain them and place them on a dish till cold. Put the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 I