522 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. (3) Put 41b. of ripe Strawberries and Jib. of raspberries into a saucepan on the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon until the fruit is pulpy. Mash them up, strain the juice into another saucepan, bring it to the boil, and add 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 6oz. of arrowroot or corn- flour and boil for about ten minutes, stirring continually. Pour this into a damped mould, let it set, turn it out when cold, and serve with sugar and milk separately. To 1 breakfast cupful of the juice 4oz. of arrowroot or cornflour should be sufficient. Strawberry Pulp for Ices.—Pick 111), of Strawberries, pound them well in a mortar with a little water, rub them through a line sieve into a basin, and add 4oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar to each pound of pulp. Stir well, put the preparation into bottles, cork and fasten them down, stand them in a saucepan with water to about half their height, and let them cook slowly for about ten minutes. Hay or straw should always be put between the bottles to prevent them knocking together. Remove the saucepan from the lire, let the bottles cool in the liquor, take them out, wax the corks, and put them in a cool dry place until wanted. Strawberry Punch.—Pick the stalks off 1£ pints of freshly- gathered ripe Strawberries, put the fruit into a deep dish, cover them with 2| breakfast-cupfuls ef caster sugar, and leave them till a thick red syrup has formed. Pass the Strawberries and syrup through a fine hair sieve into a freezer, and mix with them 1 teacupful of sweet wine and IA breakfast-cupfuls of water; stir them till mixed, and leave them till frozen. Serve the punch in small glasses. Strawberry-and-Raspberry Jam.—Carefully pick over the Strawberries and half the quantity of raspberries; put the fruit in a preserving-pan, and boil it for a quarter-of-an- liour. Skim the fruit, and mix with it some coarsely- crushed loaf sugar, using fib. of the sugar for every pound of fruit. Roil the mixture for an hour, or until it coats the spoon, stirring it all the time, and skimming when required. Fill some jam-pots with the jam, and leave it till cold. Cover the jars with paper, the inner side of which has been brushed over with whipped white of egg. Keep the jam in a dry store-cupboard. Strawberry-and-Raspberry Whipped Cream.—Carefully pick over 411'. each of Strawberries and raspberries, mash them, and strain the juice. Sweeten the juice with caster sugar. Whip lqt. of cream to a stiff froth, then mix the sweetened juice with it. Put the mashed fruit on a glass dish, pour the whipped cream over it, and serve. Strawberry Salad.—Pick carefully over the Strawberries, and arrange the finest in a compote dish ; sift caster sugar over them, and then a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix together 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 1 wine-glass- Fig. 682. Compote of Strawberry Salad. ful of white curapoa, pour the mixture over the Strawberries, and serve them with as little delay as possible. Another way: Cover the bottom of a compote-dish with slices of oranges, then build the Strawberries on the top of them (see Fig. 682). Garnish round with sections of oranges, sift some caster sugar over, moisten with 1 teacupful of brandy and water, mixed in equal quantities, and stand the dish in the ice-box. In about half an hour’s time the Straw- berries will be very cold, and ready for serving. Strawberry Sherbet.—Remove the tops off lib. of Strawberries, mash the fruit, mix with it the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and 3 pints Strawberries —continued. of water. In four hours’ time strain the juice off the Strawberries into another basin, pressing them to extract as much as possible. Mix with the juice lib. of double refined sugar, and stir it till the sugar has dissolved; then strain it and pack it in ice for an hour. Serve the sherbet in small tumblers. Strawberry Shortbread.--Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 saltspoonful of salt with lib. of flour, and sift the whole through a fine hair sieve. Rub ooz. of lard smoothly into the flour, then mix in a sufficient quantity of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved, to make the whole into a smooth dough. Divide this into four equal portions, and roll them out to the same thickness and size. Grease two flat tins with lard or butter, and put two pieces of the paste on each, one on the top of the other. Trim them evenly round the edges, and bake them in a brisk oven. Mash some freshly gathered ripe Strawberries, and sift some caster sugar over them. When the paste is cooked, lift the two top pieces off, and spread some butter over them all. Put a layer of the Strawberries on each of the under pieces of paste, and cover again with the top pieces. Cover the tops with Strawberries, sift plenty of caster sugar over them, put them on a dish, pour a thick rich cream round, and serve. Strawberry Shortcake.—(1) Sift l^lb. of flour and 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of baking-powder through a fine hair sieve on to a marble slab, then rub in until perfectly smooth 3oz. of butter; add 1 saltspoonful of salt, a little more than 4 teacupful of sugar, and sufficient milk to form the whole into a still' paste. Mix well, dredge the paste lightly over with flour, and roll it out very thin. Divide the paste into six equal-sized squares. Rutter a shallow baking-dish, put in one square of the paste, spread a small quantity of butter over it, and dredge it lightly over with flour; put another square of paste over the other one, flour and butter that also, and proceed the same with the remainder. Put the cake into a brisk oven, and bake it for about twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, lift off the top layer, lay it on a dish, and put over it as many whole Strawberries as will cover it, then strew over some caster sugar and cover with another layer of cake. Finish with alternate layers of Strawberries and cake, making the last layer of Strawberries, over which sift more caster sugar. Whip about 1 pint of rich cream to a stiff snow, pile it all round the cake, and serve. (2) Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour to a dough with a little salt and water and 1 table-spoonful of yeast, and set it to rise. When the dough is well risen, divide it in three parts, and put it into three very shallow tin pans. Set them in the oven, and bake the three pieces of short- bread. Pick and cut up lqt. of Strawberries, and mix with them 111), of powdered white sugar. When the cakes are baked” take them out of the oven, butter one of them, and lay on it one half of the Strawberries; place on top another cake buttered, and lay on this the other half of the Strawberries, lay the third cake on top, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sour milk into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and stir it until dis- solved; then mix in 4oz. of butter that has been warmed, and sufficient flour to make a soft dough, and mix it until quite smooth. Divide the dough into thin cakes about the size of a small dinner-plate. Dust a frying-pan over with flour, put in a cake, and bake it over a gentle fire, turning it when done on one side. Proceed the same with the other cakes, dusting the pan over with flour each tune. Split the cakes and thickly butter them; spread between each cake a layer of sweetened Strawberries, and pile them, one on the other, on a round dish. Sift caster sugar over, and serve. (4) Put into a basin Alb. of powdered sugar with Alb. of well washed butter ; grate in the rind of half a lemon, and mix well for ten minutes with the hand. Break in five eggs, one at a time, meanwhile mixing for ten minutes longer, always with the hand. Then add gradually Alb. of well-sifted flour, and mix for three minutes. Cover a baking-sheet with brown paper, and place on top three tin cake-rings