591 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <5cc.r referred to, see render their special heads. TINTA.—A Madeira wine, of a dark colour, resembling Burgundy. It is prime when about two years old. TIFPAREES.—A name given by Anglo-Indians to the fruit of the Cape gooseberry (Physalis pubescens). It is a plant allied to the winter cherry, the fruit having a slightly acid taste. In Arabia, Germany, and Spain the fruit are sometimes eaten at dessert, or prepared as follows: Tipparee Cheese or Marmalade.—This can be prepared with the pulp of the Tipparees after the liquor has been strained for making Tipparee jelly, or fresh f"uit may be used and served in the same way. Rub the pulp through a line sieve, rejecting the skins; add a few more cleaned and pricked Tipparees, put the whole into a preserving- pan with sufficient sugar to sweeten, and simmer gently until the preparation is of such consistency that it will remain stiff in the spoon. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in a few table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, pour the cheese into buttered-moulds, let them get cold and the cheese set, turn them out on to a dish, and serve. Tipparee Jelly.—Remove the pods of some Tipparees, wipe them clean on a cloth, put them into a tinned saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil until all the juice is extracted. Strain the liquor into a preserving-pan, taking care not to injure the fruit, simmer gently for a little while, removing the scum as it rises, add gradually sufficient sugar to taste, and when it is nearly ready add the strained juice of two lemons; remove the pan from the fire when the jelly is clear and no more scum rises, put it while warm into bottles, cork them up when cold, and the jelly is then ready for use. Tipparee Preserve.—Remove the pods of some Tipparees (commonly called Cape Gooseberries), wipe them free from dust, prick them with a skewer, put them in layers into a preserving-pan, sprinkle over with sugar, and cover the last layer with an extra quantity of sugar. Simmer gently until all the juice is extracted and the syrup of such a consistency that if dropped on to a cold plate it will con- geal. Remove the pan from the fire, let the preserve cool, -put it into bottles, cork them down when cold, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted. TIPSY CAKE.—If a cake saturated in wine can be said to be tipsy, then the following delicacies are entitled to the cognomen: Stand a large sponge vor Savoy cake in a glass dish, and cut out a small cone-shaped piece from the centre, form- | ing a plug, which can presently be returned. Pour into Fig. 789. Tipsy Cake. this hole and over the cake generally sherry or raisin wine, in which 1 wineglassful of brandy and the juice of half a lemon have been mixed. Whilst this is soaking, blanch 2oz. or 3oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into long Tipsy Cake—continued. shreds; stick them into the cake so as to resemble a porcupine. Then having made sure that the cake is thoroughly soaked with the wine, restore the conical plug, pour 1 teaspoonful or so of wine over it, and then, just before serving, garnish round the cake with jam, and over that lay custard or whipped cream (see Fig. 789). Some cooks perforate the cake all over with a clean skewer, sticking the shredded almonds into the holes when the cake is soaked. Any wine that drains into the dish should be ladled out and poured over again. Custard or whipped cream may be thrown all over the cake, and the jam or marmalade may be omitted, or dropped on top of the cake as well as round the base. Fruits preserved whole in syrup may be used as a garnish instead of the jam. For other receipts, see CAKES. TIPSY PUDDING.—See Puddings. TISANES.—The name given in France- to farina- ceous drinks, ma.de by slightly medicating barley or rice with tamarind water or lemonade. Sometimes spelled Ptisan, as derived from the Latin ptisanci, signifying peeled barley. TIS WEXN.—A drink prepared by the Mexicans from the fruit of the giant cactus (Cereus giganteus). The fresh pulp, with its syrupy juice, is mixed in earthen vessels, with an equal quantity of water, and then exposed to the sun whilst it ferments. It is then fit for drinking, and is said to be highly intoxicating. The colour should be a delicate amber, and the smell and flavour are said to resemble those of sour beer. TIT-BITS.—See Tid-Bits. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE.—A more enticing name for this dish would be Savoury Batter Pie, but under its familiar title it is sufficiently well known in this country to overcome any scruples that might arise from its title The following are excellent receipts for its production : (1) Any meat may be used, but rump steak is the best. Chop lib. of the meat into small pieces. Beat an egg very light, stir in I pint of milk and 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, pour it into a basin over 1 breakfastcup- ful of flour, and beat until it is light and smooth. Put the meat into a buttered deep dish, that will hold about 4gall., sprinkle it well with salt and pepper, pour over the batter, bake in a moderate oven for an hour, and serve hot. (2) Prick 1 fib. of pork or beef sausages over with a fork, put them on a pie-dish, and bake for fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. Put 1 heaped teacupful of flour in a basin with 2 saltspoonfuls of salt and I saltspoonful of pepper, make a well in the centre, in which put the yolks of two eggs, then stir in gradually sufficient milk to make a rather stiff paste. Beat it well until small bubbles arise, using a wooden spoon for the purpose; then mix in suffi- cient milk to make a light batter, and stir well together. Whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff snow, then mix them lightly in with the batter. At the end of the quarter-of-an-hour allowed for baking the sausages, take tlie tin out of the oven and pour the batter over them, return the tin to the oven, and bake for fifteen minutes longer. When cooked, slip a knife between the Toad-in-the- Hoic and the tin to separate them, then turn it out, cut it into nice-sized pieces, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Mix gradually with fib. of flour three well-beaten eggs, 14 pints of milk, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Butter a pie-dish, also the outside of a jam jar, which stand in the middle of the dish. Pour the batter round it, and bake in a brisk oven for an hour. Meanwhile prepare the follow- ing : Put 1 teacupful of the jelly from a tin of meat into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of water, a few finely-minced vegetables, 4 table-spoonful of flour that has been kneaded with a small lump of fat, 4 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir this mixture over the fire and boil it for ten minutes, then put in fib.