TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 437 Sheep—continued. off their crusts, butter them, and lay them on a hot dish. When the brains are cooked put them on the toast, pour the sauce over them (see Fig. 557), and serve while hot. Tried Marinaded Sheep’s Brains.—Well wash and clean a Sheep’s Brains, soak them in water for half-an-hour or so, take them out, drain, and dry them. Put them into a pickle comjsosed of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, onions, oil, vinegar, white wine, and salt, and let them marinade for fully one hour. Take them out, dry them, and dust over with flour. Cut a few onions into slices, and fry them in oil or lai'd; then take them out, put in the bi-ains, and fry them. Serve hot. Fried Sheep’s Brains.—(1) Clean the brains, dry them, brush them over with egg, then dip them in breadcrumbs seasoned with a little sage and pepper to taste; put them into a deep stewpan with plenty of boiling fat, and cook them to a light brown coloui-. Take them out, pour a little lemon-juice over each, and serve hot. (2) Thoroughly wash the brains, dry them well, then put them in a stewpan with a little good brown gravy, and boil very quickly to make them hard. Take them out, let them get quite cool, ami divide each piece or lobe down the centre; then dip them in egg and roll in breadcrumbs. Fry several pieces of bacon very gently but not enough to make them haul; then put the brains in the fat (a little butter may be added if not sufficient fat), and fry them. Dish them up, and pour the liquor round. (3) Pour boiling water over the brains to set them, and when cold divide them into lobes; then dip them in beaten egg and coat them thickly with breadcrambs. Melt a lump of butter or lard in a frying-pan, put in the brains, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides; fry also a few thin rashers of bacon. Put the brains on a hot dish, garnish them witli the bacon, and serve. Roasted Sheep's Brains.—Clean some brains by placing them in hot water and then in cold, dry them well, and cook them either before the fire or in the oven. When they are quite warmed through and begin to colour a little, dust them over with fine breadcrumbs and put them under a salamander. Dish them up with a few forcemeat balls, that have been cooked with the brains, made of mutton sausage-meat, seasoned with finely- powdered sweet herbs, salt anil pepper, and sufficient breadcrumbs and egg to make the mixture bind together, and pour some rich brown gravy over them all. Sheep’s Brains en Matelote.—Place the brains from about eight heads into lukewarm water, and let them remain for two hours with the skin previously takexx off, or until they become white; then put them into boiling water, vinegar, and a little salt to blanch, and let them remain till they are firm. Take them out, and put them into cold water. Take a moderate-sized stewpan lai’ge enough to hold the brains, put some layers of bacon round it, and add 1 small handful of parsley, onion, and cloves, seasoning with a little salt. Place in the brains, put some more bacon over the top, and then a round of paper. To keep the brains white, a little broth and a few slices of lemon should be added. Boil them for twenty minutes first, and before wanted to serve they must be boiled for two hours longer to acquire a flavoui'. Have ready an equal quantity of crumbs of bread lightly fried, and place them on the dish alternately with the brains. Mask all with a matelote sauce of small onions and mushrooms. Sheep’s Brains a la Poulette —Cleanse the brains by put- ting them into boiling water, wash them well in cold water, and let them drain. Prepare in a stewpan some sauce with a little stock thickened with the yolk of an egg, a little butter, cream, and flour, also two or three small onions finely minced, boiled, and mashed, a few small mushrooms, a little lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice over each brain, sprinkle a little powdered marjoianx and sage over them, then put the brains into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take them out when done, and put them on a dish. Boil up the sauce, pour it over them, and sei ve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sheep—continued. Sheep’s Brains with Remoulade Sauce.—Steep four or five Sheep’s Brains in cold water, remove the skin, and place them in fresh cold water for an hour. Put some vege- tables cut in pieces in a saucepan of water, and add a sprig of parsley, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or white wine, and 1 pinch of salt. Boil for a few minutes, then put in the brains, and boil again for ten minutes; take out the brains, drain them, place them on a dish, and mask with hot remoulade sauce. Sheep’s Ears.—These are generally cut off when skinning the head, but they can be made into such vei-y nice dishes that they should be carefully collected when the heads ai’e skinned. Boiled Sheep’s Ears served with White Sauce.—Take fifteen ears, boil them, put them on a strainer to drain, and put them into a covered saucepan to keep warm. In the meantime, put 2 table-spoonfuls of onion finely chopped into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry, but not enough to let them coloui'. Put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and fry two minutes longer, adding gradually 1 \ pints of good broth. Stir well until it boils, add 1 hand- ful of mushroom trimmings and a little parsley, put the pan on the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for fifteen minutes. Remove the fat, and pass the liquor through a sti'ainer into another saucepan. Add two dozen large mushrooms cut into quarters, and boil quickly for eight or ten minutes; then put in the ears, and remove the pan to a moderate fire and boil gently for a few minutes; add three yolks of eggs, beaten with a little water, and remove the pan to the side of the fire that the yolks may be cooked without boiling; lastly, add a little parsley finely minced and a little lemon-juice. Place the ears on a dish, pour the sauce over them (see Fjg. 558), serve. Fried Sheep’s Ears.—Take fifteen ears, soak them, and plunge them into boiling water, but do not let them boil; drain them, put a skewer through each, and singe them. Dip them into cold water to refresh them, remove c very hair inside, wipe them dry on a cloth, and put them into a saucepan with a few sprigs of sweet herbs, pepper- corns, cloves, a carrot, one onion, and a little salt. Dust them over with a little flour, and add sufficient water to cover them. Put the pan on the fire, and let it boil up once; then remove it to the side of the lire to complete the cooking. When they are done let them rgmain in the stock to cool; then take them out, wipe them dry, and remove the inner membranes with a tin biscuit-cutter. Make a salpifon of mushrooms, Sheep’s brains, and pickled ox-tongues, add 2 table-spoonfuls of raw forcemeat to thicken it, and also a little reduced brown or white sauce. Stuff the ears with this mixture, dust them over with Hour, dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or dripping, and fry them. When they are done, take them out, drain them, put them on a dish with a folded napkin spread over it, and garnish with fried parsley. Sheep’s Feet.—Hei'e, accoi’ding to the British cook, the pig has the advantage of the Sheep. But the French cook appears to entertain a different opinion, or, at any rate, believes that the “ trotter,” as the Britisher contemptuously styles it, is capable of great culinary results. It would almost seem as though the prime desire of the artistic Continental cook is to convert into dainty moi-sels what other less skilled cooks would disregard. The following receipts are vei'y characteristic of the culinary ingenuity referred to: •Sauces, <fcc., referred to% see under their special heads.