548 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. with a little brown veal gravy seasoned with onion. Good- sized Sweetbreads will require baking for three-quarters-of- an-hour in a moderate oven. Have nearly A pint of good brown veal gravy flavoured with onion in a small saucepan over the fire, add to it 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or tomato ketchup and 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sherry, and give it one boil. Place some pieces of toast or fried bread on a hot dish, lay the Sweetbreads on them, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. (3) Parboil a couple of large Sweetbreads, let them get cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Put them on a hot dish and poui- over 1 dessert spoonful of mushroom ketchup, made quite hot over the fire, with a bit of butter in it. Serve very hot. Scalloped Sweetbreads a la Richelieu.—Take four blanched Sweetbreads, cut them into slices, and stew them in a saucepan with loz. of butter and \ wineglassful of white wine. Season with 1 table spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and A teaspoonful of nutmeg. Cook for six minutes, moistening it with 1 gill of thick German sauce, and add two sliced truffles and four sliced mushrooms. Fill six scallop shells with the preparation, sprinkle the tops over with breadcmmbs, pour a few drops of clarified butter over all, and brown slightly in the oven for about five minutes. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Scrambled Sweetbreads.—Cut some small Sweetbreads into square pieces, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, eggs, pepper, and salt, and proceed as for Scrambled Eggs, not too dry. Mix with the Sweetbreads a little lemon- juice and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. These may be served plain or in a paste border thus: Roll out some short-paste and cut it with a scalloped cake tin cutter into crescent-shaped pieces, and bake them. Put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish round with the paste crescents (see Fig. 727), and serve. Stewed Sweetbreads.—(1) Trim the Sweetbreads, steep them in -warm water for an hour to disgorge, and partially boil them, then drain and leave them in cold water till quite cold. Dry the Sweetbreads thoroughly on a cloth, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Line a stewpan with a slice of bacon and a few slices of carrots and onions, put in the Sweetbreads with a bunch of sweet herbs, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and moisten to height with clear stock. Stew the Sweetbreads gently until tender, and when they are cooked strain their liquor through a fine hair sieve into a smaller stewpan, skim off all the fat, and boil it until reduced almost to a glaze. Brown the larded sides of the Sweetbreads under a salamander, arrange them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve while hot. (2) Trim and blanch one or two large Sweetbreads, cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a piece of bacon, an onion, a blade of mace, a small quantity of whole black pepper, a little salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and barely enough water to cover, and let them stew very gently. When the Sweetbreads are done, take them out, strain the liquor, thicken it with a little flour and the yolks of two eggs, pour it hot over the Sweet- breads, and serve. (3) Blanch two Sweetbreads and plunge them into cold water. Put them in a stewpan with 1 pint or so of broth, season with pepper and salt, and add a few small onions, boiled asparagus, tops, and a blade or so of mace; boil for a few minutes, then stir in a liaison of flour and butter, and stew for fully thirty minutes. Beat the yolks of two or three eggs in 1 teacupful of cream, sprinkle in a little Sweetbreads—continued. chopped parsley, and grate over a little nutmeg. Add the cream to the Sweetbreads, warm up without boiling, and stir well, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Serve hot on a dish with peas or young French beans for garnish. (4) Wash and trim off the skin, lard the Sweetbreads with some fillets of fresh bacon, and three parts boil them. Line a deep earthenware dish thickly with butter, slice a carrot and onion, and put them in the dish. Drain the Sweetbreads, put them in the dish, moisten with 1 teacup- ful of broth, dust in some salt and pepper, and put them in a good oven. When of a rich brown colour, take the Sweetbreads out and place them on a hot dish; strain the gravy into a saucepan, and boil it up with a small quantity of rich veal broth. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the sauce, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (5) Disgorge the blood out of two or three Sweetbreads, then boil them for twenty minutes. Cover the Sweet- breads with veal forcemeat, then roll and fasten them with wooden skewers. Place some thin slices of bacon in the bottom of a flat stewpan, put in the Sweetbreads, season them with a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, put some slices of veal on the top, pour in 1 pint of brown stock, and cook them gently by the side of the fire for a little over half-an-hour. Place the Sweetbreads on a dish with the veal and bacon ; mix a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour in the cooking- liquor, and stir it over the fire till the flour is cooked, then pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (6) Put the Sweetbreads over the fire with barely enough white stock to cover them. Let them stew gently from thirty to forty-five minutes. Add a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, add a little cream and cucumber ketchup, and serve all together. (7) Scald the Sweetbreads, and then put them in a saucepan on the fire with barely enough good brown gravy to cover them, and stew gently from thirty to forty-five minutes. Add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with browned flour and butter, and add a little mushroom ketchup. (8) Lard and parboil the Sweetbreads, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs mixed with a little salt and pepper and plenty of chopped parsley and marjoram, and brown them in front of the fire in a Dutch oven ; then put them in a saucepan over the fire with a small quantity of good brown gravy, barely enough to cover them, and let them simmer for twenty minutes, adding a little mushroom ketchup, and serve in the gravy. (9) Having prepared the Sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and dredge some flour over them; add a bunch of parsley, salt and pepper, moisten them with water, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire. Cook separately some small onions and some button-mushrooms. When cooked, put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish them with the mushrooms and onions, thicken the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads with the beaten yolks of two eggs, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, pour it over the Sweetbreads, and serve at once. Stewed Sweetbreads a la Catalane.—Cut four blanched Sweetbreads into slices, put them in a saute-pan with A gill of sweet-oil, 1 table spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, two well chopped shallots, and half a sliced green pepper. Cook to a good golden colour for about six minutes, and add two peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 1 gill of Spanish sauce, and a crushed clove of garlic. Cook for ten minutes longer, arrange the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, and serve at once. Sweetbreads a l’Anglaise.—Wash the Sweetbreads and par- boil them. Put them in a saucepan over the fire with barely enough white stock to cover, and let them stew gently for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Add a seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a very small quantity of mace, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and add a little cream and cucumber ketchup. Pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads and serve young peas or French beans with them.