THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 639 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. backbone in halves. Both the halves may be cooked and served in the same way, but should only one half be re- quired, take the thickest. Loosen the flesh from the bone, and with a sharp knife cut oft’ the ends of the bone. Put the half of the fish into a bowl of cold water, let it soak for two hours, take it out, drain, put it into a Turbot-kettle with more than sufficient water to cover it, boil it, then remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and let the fish simmer for about an hour according to its size. When done, take the Turbot out, drain it, remove the back-bone, wipe it dry on a cloth, put it on a dish, and serve with prawn sauce made with cream poured over it. Boiled Turbot with. Tartar Sauce.—Prepare the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with a lump of salt, a bunch of parsley, J teacupful of lemon-juice, and plenty of cold water. Place it on the fire until the water commences to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently until the fish is tender. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and beat them well, adding some olive oil, 1 table- spoonful at a time, alternately with 1 teaspoonful of tarra- gon vinegar, until the sauce is of the proper consist- ency. Mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped pickled gherkins, black pepper to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne. When the fish is cooked, drain it carefully and lay it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turbot with White Sauce.—Put some sweet herbs, thyme, basil, and a peeled onion cut in slices into a fish-kettle, and over these place a small, well-cleaned, and dried Turbot; lay over it some sweet herbs, thyme, basil, a leek cut into pieces, and some salt and pepper. Pour over it just" sufficient white wine and vinegar in equ I quantities to cover, and boil over a moderate fire. Put |lb. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, add to it a couple of leeks cut small, 2 table-spoonfuls of capiers, two boned anchovies, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, some water and vinegar, and a small quantity of flour; stir all these over the fire till quite done, then put the Turbot on a dish, and pour this sauce over it. Broiled Turbot.—Clean the fish and wipe it quite dry, split it down the back, and let it soak for nearly an hour in warm butter with chopped sweet herbs, parsley, salt, and pepper; then cover it with sifted breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Serve with lemon-juice or Seville orange-juice squeezed over. Broiled Turbot with Shrimp Sauce.—Cut off the fillets from half a small Turbot; cut these again into thin slices in a slanting direction, sprinkle them with salt and pepper to season, put them on a dish, moisten with oil, sprinkle over a finely-chopped onion and a few sprigs of parsley, and let them remain for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so. Put the yolks of two or three eggs into a basin with 3oz. of warmed butter, beat them well, dip the slices of Turbot in, and afterwards cover with sifted breadcrumbs. Put them a few at a time on a gridiron over a clear fire, broil them on both sides, place them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with shrimp sauce in a sauce- boat. Croustades of Turbot.—Cut a stale loaf into slices about 2in. thick, and cut them into rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter; then cut half through the centre of each with a tin cutter liin. in diameter. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in some milk, keeping the sauce rather thick, and stir it until boiling. Put in some cold Turbot that has been freed from skin and bone and divided into flakes with a fork, and a moderate quantity of finely- chopped parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Toss the fish over the fire until very hot. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it boils put in the rounds of bread and fry them. As each round assumes a nice golden brown, take it out of the fat and drain it for a minute ou a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Turbot—continued. Lift out the pieces of bread marked by the smaller cutter and scoop out some of the inside with the handle of a spoon. Pill each croustade with some of the fish mixture, Fig. 887. Croustades of Turbot. and put a cooked button-mushroom on the top of each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the cr ustades on it, garnishing them tastefully with parsley (see Fig. 887), and serve. Curried Turbot.—(1) Peel and slice a moderate-sized onion, and fry it in plenty of butter until a rich brown. Next mix in 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder and h table-spoonful of flour; afterwards stir in slowly sufficient stock to make the requisite quantity of sauce. Season to taste with salt, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Strain the sauce when it has boiled the allotted time through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cold. Cut some cold Turbot into moderate-sized pieces, throwing away the skin and bones, and put it into a stewpan until the cold sauce. Warm it slowly at the side of the fire, and when ready add a small quantity of lemon-juice. Prepare a border of plain boiled rice round a hot dish, turn the curry into the centre, and serve. If preferred, omit putting the border of rice round the dish, but garnish with small croutons of fried bread, and serve the nice separately. (2) Well wash and clean a small Turbot or half a middling-sized fish, remove the head and bones, chop it up into square pieces, put them into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for about twenty minutes. Put two chopped onions into a saucepan with a little butter, and cook them until they are coloured ; take the pieces of Turbot out of the water, drain and wipe them, put them into the saucepan, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and 2 table-spoon- fuls each of flour and curry powder. Cook two minutes longer, stirring well, pour in sufficient broth or court bouillon made with the bones and head of the fish to cover, add a bunch of parsley, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Take out the pieces of fish, arrange them on a dish, reduce the liquor, add a thickening of the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream, strain it over the fish, and serve with dried boiled rice in Indian style on a separate dish. Fillets of Turbot with Cream Sauce.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some cooked Turbot, skin them, leave them till cold, then cut them into collops. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, £ teacupful of cream, a small quantity of glaze, and a pinch of cayenne pepper; season to taste until salt, stir the sauce over the lire till thick, then move it to the side, and put in the fillets of Turbot. Turn the Turbot and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve it. If preferred, the mixture can be served in a vol-au-vent. Fried Turbot.—(1) Clean the fish well, sprinkle it with salt, and let it remain in the salt for twenty-four hours. Wash it then, and wipe it quite dry. Brush it over with beaten egg, and cover with well-sifted breadcrumbs. Fry the fish then in boiling lard with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar in it. When fried, lay the fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce with it. (2) Select a small Turbot of about 51b. or 61b. in weight, clean and wash it, dry it on a cloth, dredge it over with flour, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of fat or oil, and brown it. Take it out, drain oft' all the fat, place it in a saucepan with a boned anchovy, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and ground ginger, pour over suffi- cient claret or white wine to nearly cover it, set the