573 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Tarts and Tartlets—continued. lightly in with the above mixture. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, strew in plenty of fine breadcrumbs, three-parts fill it with the mixture, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Tart in the mould until cold, then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm Jib. of butter, and beat it for about twenty minutes with Jib. of caster sugar and the grated rind of two lemons. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of two, and when they are ready stir them into Jib. of finely-sifted flour; when quite smooth, mix in the butter, &c., and beat the whole together for a few minutes. Turn it into a thickly-buttered mould that will just contain it, strew plenty of finely-chopped almonds over the top, and bake for an hour in a good oven. If it begins to colour too much on the top, cover it with a sheet of paper. When cooked, turn the Tart on to a dish, and serve. Chelsea Tartlets or Chelsea Hats.—Boll out 1 Jib. of good putt paste to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 2Jin. in diameter. Moisten the edges of the paste with a paste-brush dipped in water, and pinch it up into the form of three-cornered hats. Fill the interior of the paste with uncooked rice, to keep it in shape, and bake it. When cooked, turn the rice out of the hats, brush them over with the beaten white of egg, and put in the oven to glaze. Pipe the rims inside and out with white sugar icing, put a layer of red-currant Fig. 761. CHELSEA Taktlets. jelly inside, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. Make a lattice across the cream of sugar piping, place the Tartlets on a dish that has been garnished with a lace- edged dish-paper (see Fig. 761), and'serve. Fancy Tartlets.—Peel and core six large cooking apples, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with 6 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, half a stick of cinnamon, three or four cloves, a thin piece of lemon-peel, and a small quantity of water. Stew the apples over a gentle fire till tender. When cooked, pulp the apples through a fine hair sieve. Whisk three fresh eggs well, mix with them four crushed penny stale sponge-cakes, 2 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, and 3oz. of warmed butter, and beat the mixture well. Butter and line some patty-pans with a rich tart-paste, half fill each with the apple pulp, spread the cake mixture on the top, and bake the tarts in a moderate oven until nicely browned. When cooked, take them out of--their tins, arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or lace-edged dish- paper, and serve. Genoa Tartlets.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding from time to time a drop of water alternately with a little white of egg; squeeze a little lemon-juice over the almonds, and continue pounding them to a smooth paste, then mix fib. of caster sugar with them. Put the paste in a copper pan, set it over the fire, and stir it until it does not adhere to the fingers when tried. Roll the paste out on a table over which caster sugar has been strewn. The bottom of the Tartlets should be as thin as a sheet of cardboard, and the bands must be fin. broad and high. Cut them to the size of half-crown pieces, moisten the edges of the Tartlets with a little beaten white of egg, and fix the bands on them, tailing care that the joins are not visible; then lay them on a sheet of white paper and let them dry. Make a flat of almond paste nearly the size of the dish on which the Tartlets are to be served, giving it any shape fancied, and fix a border the same height as For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Tarts and Tartlets—continued. the Tartlets round it. Put the Tartlets and piece of paste in the oven for a few minutes to dry them thoroughly, then put the small Tartlets in the big one on a dish, fill them with different-coloured sweetmeats and preserves, and serve them. Indian Tartlets.—Put ljoz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a minced shallot, and cook it to a good colour; then add 1 teaspoonful of curry powder, half that quantity each of flour and lemon juice, a little cayenne pepper, and the liquor from twelve oysters. Stir well over the fire until the whole is done, add a cooked carrot cut up in small pieces, and J teacupful of cream. In the meantime, line twelve Tartlet-pans with puff paste, keep ing it very thin, fill them with rice, and bake them for about ten minutes. Take them out when done, remove the rice, turn the paste cases out of the pans, fill them with the mixture, put an oyster that has been bearded on the top of each, place the Tartlets on a baking-sheet, cover them with paper, and make them hot in the oven. Take them out and serve at once. Paganini Tartlets.—Put the whites of three eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, and add gradually 5oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Have ready some Tartlet- or patty pans lined with puff paste, put a little apricot or orange marmalade in the centre of each, and bake them in a moderate oven for about a-quarter-of-an hour. Take them out when done, heap the egg mixture on the top of them, and serve either hot or cold. Piedmontese Tartlets.—Put loz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work in 2oz. of flour; then add the yolk of an egg, a sprinkling of salt, and a little water should the paste be too thick. Put it on a floured table, fold it over three times, rolling it out each time, and the last time rolling it out to about Jin. thick. In the meantime, grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a basin, beat in the yolks of two eggs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste, and lastly 3 table- spoonfuls of cream. Line some patty- or Tartlet-pans with the paste, put a little of the mixture in each, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for about half an-hour. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold, but the latter for preference. Homan Tartlets.—Put the whites of six eggs into a whip- ping-bowl, and beat them to a fioth ; add gradually Jib. of caster sugar, and after this is worked in add 1 dessert- spoonful of cornflour. Great care must be taken in adding the latter, otherwise the pastry will be tough and useless ; the beating must stop and the cornflour only stirred in. Cover a tin or baking sheet with oiled paper, on this place as many small rings as will be required, also lined with oiled paper, make them quite hot, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture into each ring, put them into a moderate oven, and as they are baking make an indent in each with the back of a spoon. When done, take them out, pile upon them whipped cream, decorate with small pieces of different-coloured jellies, and serve. Three-cornered Tartlets.—Roll out about Jib. of rich puff paste to a thin sheet, cut it into squares about 2Jin. wide, put a little jam or marmalade in the centre, fold Fig. 762. Three-cornered Tartlets. the paste over so as to make it three-cornered, and secure the edges by pinching them; place the Tartlets on a slightly- buttered baking sheet, brush them over with egg beaten in a little water, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, Sauces, ibc., referred to, see under their special heads.