596 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. dec., referred to. see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. cinnamon, and \07.. of cloves, and boil until reduced to a syrup. Drain the Tomatoes, put them into the syrup, and stew gently until quite tender. Next take them carefully out of the pan, and put them into jars; boil the syrup until thickly reduced, then pour it over the Tomatoes. In two days’ time strain oft" the syrup and boil it up again. Pour it while boiling over the Tomatoes, leave them until cold, then cover and tie down. (3) Take 4 peck of green Tomatoes, cut them in slices, sprinkle with salt, and let them lie in this salt for twelve hours, then put them into a colander to drain. Stir together loz. of ground mustard, mixed as if for the dinner-table, Joz. of allspice, Aoz. each of black pepper, ground ginger, and cloves, 2oz. of white mustard-seed, and four onions peeled and cut in slices. Put a layer of the sliced Tomatoes into a pan, cover with a layer of the mixed spices and onions, then a layer of Tomatoes, and next a layer of spices, and so on alternately till all are in the pan; cover them with vinegar, set the pan on the lire, and let the pickle simmer till the Tomatoes look clear. Put them into jars, and when cold tie them down. They are fit for use at once. (4) Cut 4 bushel of green Tomatoes into thin slices, spread them on a dish, lightly sprinkling them on both sides with salt, and let them drain all night. Next day pour off all the liquor that has drained from them, and put them in a pan over the fire with vinegar enough to cover them completely. Add 5 table-spoonfuls of powdered mustard, 5 gills of whole mustard-seed, 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice, ground pepper, and cloves, 3 pints of onions, peeled and chopped, 4lb. of brown sugar, and 1 gill of salt, and let all boil together till the Tomatoes are tolerably tender and look clear. Then put the pickle into jars, and when cold tie them down air-tight. (5) Mix 1 gall, of chopped Tomatoes and twelve large onions in a basin, sprinkle them over with 4 table-spoon- fuls of salt, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Drain off the liquor, put the mixture into a lined sauce- pan with 21b. of sugar, spices and pepper to taste, pour in lqt. of vinegar, and boil for half-an-hour. Turn the pickle into a jar, let it remain for four days, boil it again for a few minutes, return it to the jar, cover when cold, and the pickle is then ready for use. Green Tomato Sauce.—(1) Gather 2qts. of Tomatoes 'when they are just beginning to ripen. Cut them into slices, lay them in a large pan with two or three peeled and sliced onions, and sufficient vinegar to cover. Tie in a piece of muslin a moderate quantity of peppercorns, cloves, bruised ginger, and a few chillies; put them in 'with the Tomatoes and stew them gently until very tender. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a coarse wire sieve, let them drain well, and rub through with a wooden spoon. Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls each of arrowroot and dry mustard into a basin, and mix them smoothly with cold vinegar; turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it on the fire until boiling; then put in the mashed Tomatoes with a sufficient quantity of the vinegar in which they were boiled to bring them to the consistency of thick cream. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and season to taste with salt and a moderate quantity of cayenne pepper; it may be sweetened with moist sugar if liked. When the sauce is ready, turn it into bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard till required for use. (2) Procure the required quantity of green Tomatoes, slice them, lay them in a deep dish, dust over with a small quantity of salt, moisten slightly with water, and leave them for a couple of days. At the end of that time drain and scald them with boiling water. Put them into a saucepan with a very small quantity of water, and simmer slowly at the edge of the fire for an hour. Take sufficient vinegar to cover the Tomatoes, and for every pint allow Joz. each of powdered allspice, cloves, and mace, 2oz. of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard-seed, and a small sliced onion. Mix these ingredients with the Tomatoes, and boil them for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer. Turn the sauce into wide-mouthed bottles, and when cold, cork them. Mashed Tomatoes.—(1) Cut several ripe Tomatoes into quar- ters and remove their pips and the watery substance; put them into a stewpan with a large lump of butter, an onion, laurel leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme tied together; season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a small quantity of clear gravy. Stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until quite soft, then remove the onion, thyme, amd laurel- leaf, and mash the Tomatoes. Put 14 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed and slightly Fig. 797. Mashed Tomatoes. browned, then stir in the Tomatoes. When thickened turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 797), and serve without delay. (2) Put one dozen or so Tomatoes into a moderate oven and bake until the skins crack. Bruise them in a basin, adding a little ginger and ground chillies, salt to taste, and 4 teaspoonful of mustard-oil. Place the mixture on a dish, and serve. A little lemon-juice, if added, is an im- provement. Pickled Tomatoes.—(1) Put sufficient vinegar to cover a peck of Tomatoes into a saucepan with loz. each of cloves and black pepper, and 2oz. of mustard-seed. Prick 1 peck of Tomatoes all over, and let as much of the juice as possible drop into the saucepan with the vinegar; boil well, stirring frequently, and let the liquor get quite cold.. Put the Tomatoes in layers in a deep pan with salt sprinkled over them, and in three days’ time wash off all the salt. Place them back into the deep pan or a jar, pour over the vinegar, taking care that it is quite cold, cover, and in ten or twelve days’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (2) Have small yellow Tomatoes, button-onions, and very small dwarf red peppers, using ^ breakfast-cupful of red peppers to 3qts. of Tomatoes and lqt. of onions. Prick the Tomatoes with a needle, put them into enough cold brine to cover them, the brine being made by dissolving as much salt in cold water as the water will receive, and let them stand for a week. On the fifth day peel the onions, taking care not to cut them too closely at the root and top, and let them stand for two days in the same kind of brine. At the end of the week, drain the Tomatoes and onions, wipe them on a clean cloth, and put them into four large glass or earthenware jars with the peppers. Fill one jar with cold vinegar, and pour it out again in order to ascertain the quantity required, using four times that quantity. Put the vinegar into a saute pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sugar, 1 table- spoonful each of whole allspice, cloves, and cinnamon, and heat it over the fire until it is scalding hot; then let it cool and pour it into the jars, dividing the spices among them ; seal the jars, and keep them in a cool dark place. (3) Put a layer of Tomatoes that are barely ripe into an earthenware jar, and sprinkle over a little mustard seed, grated horseradish, garlic, and any other spices desired, intermixing them with a little salt, and continue in this way until the jar is full; pour over sufficient strong cider vinegar to cover, cork tightly to exclude the air, and in a few weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use. (4) Choose firm, small, round, ripe Tomatoes; wash them, prick them with a large needle, and let them stand for a week in cold water containing as much salt as it will dissolve. Then wash them in cold water and drain them. Put them into an earthenware jar, sprinkling among them ^ breakfast cupful of mustard-seed and two chopped red pepper-pods for each gallon of Tomatoes, cover them v ith cold vinegar, put a close cover on the jar, and keep them in a cool, dark place. Tomatoes—continued.