THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 491 tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads, Soups—continued. mace, cinnamon, anti three or four cloves, and let the above ingredients simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Cut the flesh off the breast of the fowl, chop it, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste. Pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve, mix the pounded meat with it, then pass all through the sieve again. Return the Soup to the saucepan, mix 1 pint of cream with it, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve it while very hot. (3) Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan with two onions, one turnip, one carrot, four artichokes, Jib. of lean ham, all chopped, a bunch of parsley, three cloves, and a small piece of mace, and stir them over a slow fire for fifteen minutes, but do not brown them. Put in with the vege- tables 1 pint of well-washed rice and 3qts. of veal broth, and boil gently by the side of the fire till the rice is tender. Chop and pound the flesh of a roast fowl in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with 2qts. of veal stock, and boil them for twenty minutes. Strain the broth from the rice and vegetables, pound them, then return them to the stewpan, with the pounded meat and all the liquor, including that strained from the bones of the fowl. Boil the Soup a few minutes longer, then skim it, season with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, mix in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten in J pint of cream, and stir it quickly. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it very hot, with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Racines Soup.—Cut the red part of four carrots, an equal quantity of parsley-roots, and the white part of celery into thin pieces, lin. long. Blanch and drain the vegetables, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Pour f pint of broth in with the vegetables, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Blanch Jib. of nouilles, drain and cut them into small pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen with the glazed vege- tables ; pour in 3qts. of boiling clear veal soup, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Red Soup (a l’Ecarlate).—(1) Pour Jgall. of water into a saucepan over the fire, and put in about Soz. of red haricot beans that have been soaked in cold water for a day ; then add loz. or so of butter, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, and let the whole boil up. Put in a beetroot divested of its peel and cut into thin slices, also two or three tomatoes^ two medium-sized onions, and a small quantity of parsnip or celery, all of these cut into small pieces ; boil slowly for two hours-and-a-half, pour it on to a strainer placed over the tureen, and rub as much through as possible. Season with pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot, warming it up again if it be cooled in strain- ing. (2) Cut into small pieces two carrots, half a turnip, half an onion, two leaves of celery, and two leeks; steam them well for ten minutes in a saucepan with loz. of butter, then moisten with 3 pints of consomme, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of rice and J pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook thoroughly for half an-hour, and five minutes be- fore serving put in one cut up raw tomato, half the breast of a cooked grouse, cut into small pieces, and twelve game forcemeat quenelles. Rich. Man’s Soup.—Singe, draw, and partly roast a turkey so as to brown it. Put two slices of ham at the bottom of a saucepan, then lay the turkey on it with a knuckle of veal and a partridge. Cover the above ingredients with stock, and boil them gently for an hour. Skim the stock, and put into it some peeled and sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, three or four leeks, two laurel-leaves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in two or three cloves, and season to taste with pepper and salt, adding a little cayenne if liked. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for five hours. At the end of that time strain the Soup into a clean saucepan, beat the whites of three eggs togethei with 1 wineglassful of Rhenish wine, mix it with the Soup, and boil up again. Let it simmer for Soups—continued. fifteen minutes, then pass it through a broth-napkin. Prepare and poach a few chicken forcemeat quenelles, put them in a soup-tureen with some button-mushrooms, pour the boil- ing Soup over, and serve at once. Rich White Soup.—Put 61b. of lean gravy beef into a saucepan with Jgall. of water and stew it gently until all the goodness is "extracted, then take the beef out. Put into the saucepan with the liquor 61b. of knuckle of veal, Jib. of ham, four oni ms, and four heads of celery all cut up, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew the above ingredients gently for seven or eight hours, skimming oil’ all the fat as it rises to the top. Mix with the crumb of two French rolls 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream and a little of the stock, boil them for ten minutes, then nib them through a silk sieve with a wooden spoon. Mix the cream and almonds with the Soup, and boil it up again, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve. Rotterdam Soup.—Prepare about 2qts. of rich Soup. Put Jib. of potato-flour into a basin and mix it very thin with cold stock. Put the strained Soup into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, stir in with a spoon the potato-flour thickening, add a little each of chopped chervil and sorrel and the white parts of four leeks cut up small and blanched. Continue to boil until the whole is cooked. Cut two lampreys in short pieces and salt them, let them stand for an hour, wash ofl' all the salt, and boil them in plain water until done ; take them out and set them aside to keep warm. Cut oft' the heads and tails from about two dozen smelts, split them into halves, put them in a sautApan with a little butter, and cook them. Put the lampreys and smelts at the bottom of a tureen, add to the Soup 1 teacupful of double cream and Jib. of butter, stir well off the fire until mixed, pour it over the fish, and serve. Russian Julienne Soup (a la Russe).—Cut into strips or julienne one celery.root, one carrot, one turnip, one leek, two onions, and a small cabbage, and have ready also cut up a quantity of mushrooms, equal in bulk to all the other vegetables. Put the leek and onions into a saucepan with a little butter, fry them, but without letting them take colour, add the other vegetables together with the mush- rooms, and cook gently until the moisture of the latter is reduced. Pour over sufficient rich broth to moisten, reduce this to a glaze, pour in 3qts. or 4qts. of boiling rich broth, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim well, stir in a little finely- chopped fennel, and strain in a little sour cream to thicken. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve with rissoles, croquettes, or meat patties. This latter is strictly the Russian way of serving this Soup. Russian Soup (a la Russe).—Cut into pieces loz. each of lean raw ham, mutton, beef, and veal; brown them well in loz. of butter with the half of a finely-sliredded onion for five minutes. Moisten with lqt. of white broth, then throw in J pint of finely-chopped vegetables and 1 table- spoonful of raw rice. Boil thoroughly for half-an-hour, season with 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, and five minutes before serving add 1 handful of cliiffonade, described under that head. Sanitary Soup.—Trim off the outside leaves of three large lettuces, wash the remainder, and cut them into fine shreds; wash and shred a small quantity of beetroot- leaves, 2 handfuls of sorrel-leaves, and about 1 handful each of chervil and celery-leaves. Put two leeks and one onion sliced into a saucepan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire till the butter has melted and began to boil: then put in the beetroot, celery, and lettuce-leaves, and fry them for ten minutes; add the chervil and sorrel, pour in 2qts. of broth, boil it for fifteen minutes, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and skim • oft' all the fat. Put some thin slices of bread into a soup-tureen, soak them with a little of the Soup for a few minutes, then pour in the remainder, and serve. Savoyard Soup (ala Savoyarde).—Make some vegetable Soup as described for Vegetable Soup. Cut some slices of