468 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. and fry them slightly. Now put them on the table or hoard, cover them over with any kind of forcemeat, roll them up, and fasten them with skewers. Put 1 table- spoonful of the liquor from capers into a dish, together with a boned and chopped anchovy, chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful or so of meat gravy, and a \ raw egg. Dip the rolls in egg, then in breadcrumbs, place them in the dish, cover over, and bake slowly. Serve hot with the gravy poured over. Fillets of Soles a, la Prince.—Carefully separate the fillets from the bones of the Soles, trim them nicely, spread them over on one side with a coating of raw quenelle force- meat, then fold them together; ornament each at the tail end with a crayfish claw m its shell, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and moisten them with white wine. Boil some rice, press it into a flat-shaped mould, and leave it till cold; then turn it on to a dish. Mask the rice with fish forcemeat, and bake it in the oven. Cook the fillets over a brisk fire, then drain, and arrange them in a circle on the rice. Garnish the dish with groups of oysters blanched in wine, white mushroom heads, and black truffles, and garnish the centre with small quenelles and crayfish tails. Have ready some veloute sauce that has been reduced with some fish stock, a little oyster liquor, and some heads of mushrooms. Finish the sauce with some crayfish butter and some fresh butter. Serve it in a sauceboat with the fillets of Soles. Fillets of Soles a, la Provenqale.—Fillet a pair of Soles and put them in a stewpan with a teacupful of white wine and a small quantity of olive oil; add a little chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, garlic, salt and pepper, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for half-an- hour. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish, squeeze some lemon-juice over them, garnish round with slices of fried onions, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Heine.—Skin a pair of thick Soles, cut off the fins, separate the flesh from the bones with a sharp knife, and cut it into small equal sized pieces. Grate the crumb of some stale bread, and mix with it some finely- chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. Dip the pieces of Sole first in beaten egg and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, and fry them till well and equally browned. Reduce some beef gravy with the trimmings of Soles, thicken it with a little butter that has been worked with some flour, and season it with essence of anchovies and a few drops of sherry. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Rouennaise.—Skin a pair of Soles and separate the fillets from the bones, spread them with lobster butter, and double them over. Butter a baking- sheet, put the fillets on it, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. They will take about ten minutes to cook. Put foz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually a teacupful of fish stock, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Mix with the sauce l teacupful of cream, a little lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, and salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles. Arrange the Soles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Soles en Turban.—(1) Skin and fillet a pair of thick Soles. Cut a piece of crumb of bread the shape of a pyramid, fasten it on a tin dish, the pointed end down- wards, cover it with slices of bacon, then a layer of fish forcemeat, and stick the fillets on the forcemeat in such a way as to form a turban. Cut some truffles into small rounds, stick them in the spaces between the fillets, squeeze over them some lemon-juice, and pour over some warmed butter; then stick some thin slices of bacon round, and cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper. Bake the fillets, and when cooked take off the paper and bacon, remove the piece of bread from the centre, place the turban on a hot dish, fill the hollow left by the bread with tomato sauce, and serve it. Soles—continued. (2) Take off the fillets from three small Soles, having first skinned them; turn them neatly, season, and ornament half of them with pieces of truffles cut in various shapes, making slight incisions in the fillets at a short distance from each other to fix them in. Prepare some quenelle forcemeat with the trimmings of the Soles and an equal quantity of pike flesh. Butter a border-mould, fill it with some of the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain marie. Prepare a flat of short-paste, and bake it; when done, put it on an entree dish, cutting it to the same size, and cover with a thin layer of forcemeat, bringing it in the centre to the same height as the border, which should be turned out on the dish. Lean the fillets of Soles slanting against the border, alternating them one plain and one ’decorated, having a block of bread covered with buttered paper in the centre to support them, bind a strip of buttered paper round the fillets, and fasten it with a string. Bake the turban in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. When cooked, remove the paper and bread support from the turban, drain off all the fat, then slip it on to a round dish. Fill the hollow centre of the turban with another block of bread the same height that has been fried in butter, fix a pewter cup covered with nouille paste in the centre, and fill it with some little rounds of truffles. Garnish the base of the turban with a border of nouille paste (see Fig. 607), and pour over it some veloute sauce that has been reduced. Serve the turban with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Fillets of Soles a la Turque.—Skin the Soles, pick off the fillets carefully, and fry them in butter. Boil some well- washed rice in broth till tender, then drain it quite dry, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot bechamel sauce. Pile the rice, pyramid fashion, in the centre of a hot dish. Mix Jib. of butter and a little pepper and salt with 3 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and when it is hot, mask the fillets of Soles with it. Lean the fillets round the rice, and serve them. Fillets of Soles A la Venetienne.—(1) Lift the fillets off the bones of a pair of Soles, divide them lengthwise into strips, and twist them into knots; lay them in a thickly- buttered .baking-tin, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the bones and trimmings of the Soles into a saucepan with an onion, half a blade of mace, two or three mush- rooms, salt and pepper to taste, a bunch of parsley, and about H pints of white stock, and boil gently for an hour. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, and wlien it has melted, mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour; then strain in the above liquor, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add plenty of finely-minced parsley, and enough parsley-juice to make the sauce green. Bake the fillets in a quick oven, and when cooked place them on a hot dish; stir the sauce well, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Put fifteen nicely-trimmed »fillets of Soles into a saute - pan with a piece of butter and a little white wine, and cook them over a clear fire. Cover a dish with a layer of poached fish forcemeat, drain the Soles when cooked, and arrange them in a circle on it, cover them with