THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 462 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saxices, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Snipes—continued. through a hue hair sieve; mix with the pounded trails an equal quantity of raw quenelle forcemeat and 1 teacupful of cooked fine herbs. Stull' the Snipes with the above mixture, sew them with thread, trussing their legs. Melt some fat bacon in a stewpan, put in the Snipes, with |lb. of streaky bacon cut into small pieces, set the stewpan over a sharp fire, and stir the contents about for a few minutes; then put in sixteen or eighteen raw mushrooms, and place the lid on the stewpan. In seven minutes’ time take the stewpan off the fire, and when the Snipes have slightly cooled remove the thread. Butter the inside of a shallow hot pie-mould, stand it on a baking-sheet on which a sheet of paper has been laid, line the mould with short-paste, coat it thickly with forcemeat, and fill it with alternate layers of Snipe and forcemeat, sprinkling in at the same time the bacon and mushrooms, and bringing it to a dome shape. Put some slices of fat bacon on the top, and cover the pie with a flat round of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together. Ornament the pie with leaves cut out of the paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven, covering lightly with a sheet of paper after the first ten minutes. When cooked, lift the cover off the pie, remove the bacon, and pour in some brown sauce that has been reduced with some gravy made from the bones and backs of the Snipes. Put the cover on the pie again, stand it on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Prepare 21b. of common short-paste and leave it for two hours. Bone and skin seven or eight Snipes, put them into a basin with lib. of raw truffles cut into dice, and pour over 1 teacupful of Madeira. Turn the livers and trails of the Snipes into a frying-pan with three or four raw poultry livers and a little bacon-fat, fry them over a brisk fire, season them, and when cooked leave till cool. When cold pound the livers and trails in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Cut the meat off four hare’s legs, pick out the toughest part, and chop the remainder into small pieces; put them into a frying-pan with a little bacon-fat, season, and fry them; then pound the meat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the liver puree. Prepare a mince with some lean veal and bacon mixed in equal quantities. Sprinkle some salt and pepper over the mince, pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the puree. Butter the inside of an oval shaped channelled pie-mould and line it with the paste; spread over a thick layer of the force- meat, fill the hollow with alternate layers of forcemeat, Snipes, and truffles, raising it in a dome above the edges. Put a round flat of paste on top of the pie, moisten and press the edges together, put a Snipe’s head and beak made of paste on the top of the crust, brush it over with beaten eggs, and put it into a moderate oven. In ten minutes’ time cover the pie with a sheet of paper and finish cooking it. When the pie is cooked and has cooled a little, pour in through the top a few table- spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly mixed with a little Madeira. When cold serve the pie on a folded napkin with sprays of parsley tucked in the folds on a dish (see Fig. 599). (4) Divide six Snipes into halves lengthwise. Line a Snipes—contin ued. buttered mould with a rich short paste, coat it inside with a thin layer of Snipe forcemeat, then fill it with alternate layers of Snipe and forcemeat, leaving a hollow in the centre, and finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cut a block of bread Xo lit the hollow left in the centre, wrap a slice of bacon round it, and fix it in the mould. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the top paste off the pie, remove the block of bread, and fill the cavity with chopped truffles that have been mixed with reduced Spanish sauce and essence of Snipe; arrange some sliced truffles on the top of the forcemeat, put a cock’s kernel in the middle, and serve the pie. Snipe Pie with Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and draw seven or eight Snipes, chop off their heads and claws, separate them into halves down the backs, and remove as many bones as possible. Put the pieces of meat into a frying- pan with about 4oz. of butter and cook them, adding l table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles, a little shallot, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook all these for about twenty minutes over a slow fire and let them cool. Chop up the entrails of the birds, put them into a mortar with 4 table-spoonfuls of game forcemeat, and season with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped sweet herbs and a very little nutmeg. Have ready a mould about 7in. wide and 4in. high, line it with short-paste, and fill it with the mixture, keeping the pieces of birds apart by placing slices of truffles between them. Pour over the butter in which the birds were partly cooked, cover with two bay-leaves and slices of fat bacon, put a crust of paste over, decorate it as desired, brush the surface with egg and flour, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove the paste cover, the bacon, and bay-leaves, skim off all the fat, replace the cover, brush over the surface with thick Spanish sauce, and serve cold. Stewed Snipe.—Pluck the birds carefully, cut off the heads and feet, remove the gizzards only, and wipe the birds on a clean towel. For a dozen Snipes, put 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, and let it get smoking hot, then put in the Snipes and quickly brown them. When they are browned, dust over them 1 table-spoonful of dry flour, and stir them about until the flour is browned. When it is brown, cover the birds with boiling water, season them with salt and pepper, and let them cook gently for fifteen minutes. Mean- time toast a dozen small slices of bread, put one bird on each slice, and pour a little of the sauce in which they were cooked over them. Serve the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. SNOW CAKES.—See Cakes. SNOWBALL CAKES.—See Cakes. SNOWBALL PUDDING.—See Puddings. SNOWDEN PUDDING.—See Puddings. SNOWFLAKE CAKE—See Cakes. SNOW PUDDING.—See Puddings. SOCLES.—A French word signifying pedestals, fre- quently used in artistic cookery. They are made of compressed rice, fat, paste, or any other serviceable material, and offer great scope for the exhibition of talent. The instructions given under Gum Paste will apply to the construction of Socles. SODA.—The bicarbonate of Soda sold by chemists is frequently used in cookery and confectionery. Combined with an acid and a powdered farina it makes a good leaven (see Baking-Powder), giving off an amount of carbonic acid gas as the acid and alkali neutralise each other. Unfortunately the salt thus formed (tartrate or citrate of soda, depending upon whether tartaric or citric acid are used) remains in the food it is used to lighten.