TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 586 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thermometers —continued. Thermometers—continued. hot. The heat necessary for frying to perfection can only be ascertained by using a frying-thermometer, or “ fryometer ” as Messrs. Joseph, Davis, and Co. have styled them. These are of two kinds: one (see Fig. 781) that will stand in a shallow frying-pan, indicating the heat of the merest layer of fat, and another that rests on the side of the pan, the bulb being immersed in the fat or oil. Both give the accepted degrees of heat required for cooking various foods. The uses of Thermometers in cellars, for brewing, wine-making, sugar-boiling, butter-making, and other manufactures, have been described under their specific headings. Thermometers operate upon the principle of matter expanding when exposed to heat in exact proportion to the degrees of heat applied. Spirits of wine and mercury have been found to expand with the greatest uniformity between certain points. Spirits of wine, which will not freeze at the lowest temperature to which it can be subjected, answers best for indicating low temperatures, although it boils at a much lower degree than water. A little carmine is usually added to give the spirit a con- spicuous colour. Mercury requires an exceedingly high degree of heat to boil it, therefore it is considered the best agent for culinary Thermometers. The “ fixed points ” of Thermometers are made to coincide witli the temperature of melting ice for the zero, and boiling water for the higher point. Fahrenheit divided the degrees between these two fixed points into The use of two such different and distinct scales causes much confusion; one or the other should be adopted. Until that is done it is advisable to understand Fig. 780. Oven Thermometer. 180 degrees, commencing at melting ice or freezing-point, 32deg., and continuing to boiling water, 212deg. Another system, called the Centigrade, which is much used on the Continent, commences at Odeg., and makes boiling water lOOdeg.; anything below the freezing-point of water (Odeg.) is preceded by the minus sign ; thus—6deg. signifies 6 degrees below zero. how to ascertain what are the equivalents in each case, which can be easily accomplished as follows : To ascertain the Fahrenheit equivalent for 20deg. Centi- grade, multiply 20 by 9, which gives 180, and divide that by 5, giving 36; to this add 32, and the Fahrenheit equivalent of 20deg. Centigrade is found to be 68deg. To convert Fahrenheit into Centigi-ade the operation is reversed. Thus, from 68deg. Fahrenheit subtract 32, and the sum is 36; multiply this by 5, making 180, and divide that by 9, which gives 20deg. It is advisable to commit this system to memory, as the two scales are used in this country somewhat indiscriminately. The graduation known as Reaumur’s system, makes Odeg. zero, and 80deg. boiling point of water. Delille’s system commences at boiling point (ldeg.), and graduates downwards to ISOdeg. zero. These two latter are not used in cookery. THICKENING.—See Liaisons. THISTLE-HEADS.—See Cardoons. THORN-BACK.-See Skate. THRUSHES (Fr. drives; Gcr. Di-osseln; Ital. Tordi).—Any bird of the genus Tardus would be accepted by the British cook, whereas the Continental chef con- fines his selection to those birds that frequent vineyards, living on grapes and juniper-berries. It is easy to con- ceive that such a bird, fat and plump as it would be in autumn, would be very delicate and tasty, and “ un gibier parfait,” or a perfect game bird, as it is styled by a famous French gourmet. For those who prefer to taste the tiesh rather than hear the song of the “ melancholy throstle,” the following receipts are recommended: Chaudfroid of Thrushes.—Pluck, singe, and draw one dozen thrushes; bone them, sprinkle over insides with salt and pepper, and till them up with game forcemeat mixed with a few chopped truffles. Roll the birds up, giving them a round shape, tie round with strips of paper, and put them close together in a saucepan. Sprinkle them well with salt, pour in sufficient gravy with the fat on it to nearly cover, place the lid on the saucepan with hot ashes on the top, and braise in a slow oven for about twenty minutes.