TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 669 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Turtle—continued. of eel, and keep them hot in a saucepan. Now add to the remainder the trimmings of the eel and a seasoning of thyme, basil, bay-leaf, allspice, cayenne, anti grated nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of champagne. Boil slowly for an hour, strain the liquor into the saucepan containing the .eel, boil for half-an-hour, take out the pieces of eel, drain them, put them in a tureen, reduce their liquor to half-glaze, add it to the Turtle soup on the fire, pour the whole while boiling into the tureen, and serve. Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle.—(1) Cut up in small pieces 2lb. of shin of beef, 4oz. of lean raw ham, and 2lb. of knuckle of veal, and put them into a saucepan or stockpot. Put 4oz. of dried Turtle (see Fig. 915) into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for forty-eight hours, changing the water three or four times ; then put it into a saucepan of water and simmer very gently for twenty or twenty-four hours. Put the Turtle into the saucepan Fig. 915. Dried Turtle. with the other meat, pour in the liquor in which it simmered, which should be sufficient to make the soup, bring it gently to the boil, skim as required, add two onions, one carrot, one turnip, half a head of celery, all cut up in pieces, a sprig each of thyme and marjoram, 1 tea spoonful each of basil' and peppercorns, a blade of mace, six cloves, and salt and cayenne to taste. Boil or simmer gently for eight hours, take out the pieces of Turtle, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, let it get cold, skim off all the fat, add the whites and shells of three eggs beaten slightly, to clarify, boil up once more, remove the pan to the side, and let it remain for thirty minutes, by which time it should be quite clear. Skim well, strain the liquor through a napkin or very fine sieve into another saucepan, add the Turtle, which should have been pressed and cut into con- venient-sized pieces, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add salt to taste, boil up once more, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve. A little caramel may be added should the soup not be dark enough. A wineglassful of Madeira is a great improvement. (2) Put Mb. of dried Turtle-flesh into a basin of warm water, and let it soak for half-an-hour; take it out, dry on a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with lqt. of rich veal stock. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, and let the liquor boil gently all day, adding more of the stock to keep up the original quantity. Turn the whole into a basin, cover, and let it remain until next day. Return all to the saucepan, adding more stock if required, put in lib. of conger eel or Hlb. of fresh eels, boil until done, take them out, and plunge them into boiling water. The eels will improve the flavour of the soup, and can be served for an early *meal. Put J pint of the stock into a separate saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of dried basil, 1 table-spoonful of marjoram, and 1 teaspoonful each of thyme and dried pennyroyal. Cover the pan, and cook the contents for an hour; take them off’ when done, and let them cool, still keeping them covered. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, extracting as much of the goodness from the herbs as possible. Take out the Turtle-meat when tender, and cut it up into pieces about 2in. square. Add slowly suffi- cient of the herb liquor to season the soup, as well as a small quantity of cayenne. Clarify the soil]) if necessary, add l table-spoonful of extract of meat and 1 gill of sherry or Madeira, and sufficient stock to make the whole up to 2qts.; return the meat to the soup, add two dozen cooked small egg balls, remove the saucepan from the fire, Turtle—continued. squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole into the soup-tureen, and serve. Should the soup not be clear enough, it may be strained through a jelly-bag until it is so, warming up again before serving. Should thick soup be required, add a thickening of flour and butter, and skim frequently. Apiece of ham if boiled in the veal stock is a great improvement. (3) Take jilb. of dried Turtle, put it into cold water, and let it steep for three days. At the end of that time take it from the water and put it in a saucepan over the fire together with 3qts. of good veal stock, and let it simmer gently for six hours. Take the Turtle out, put the soup away, and let it cool. When quite cold, take off .all the fat. Peel and slice a small onion, and fry it brown in a very little butter at the bottom of a saucepan ; pour the soup in over the fried onion, boil it for ten minutes, and then strain; return it to the saucepan, and add salt and cayenne to taste. Cut the Turtle up into rather small pieces, add it to the soup together with 1 glass of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of Frascati’s sauce, let it simmer for a few minutes, then pour it into the tureen, and serve lemon with it. (4) Put the dried Turtle meat into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for an hour; strain off the liquor, put the meat into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil over a slow fire for from six to eight hours, by which time the meat will be from three to four times its original bulk. Take out the meat and cut it up into pieces about 1 Jin. square. In the meantime put into a saucepan (which should be well tinned) 5lb. of gravy beef, 21b. of leg of veal, one calf’s foot, and Mb. of lean ham. Pour over sufficient water to cover, boil up slowly, removing all the scum as it rises, add a bunch of parsley, one head of celery, three onions and carrots, and a small packet of Turtle herbs and spices. Boil for a minute or two longer, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten hours, taking care not to let it boil fast, or the soup will thicken and be spoilt. Strain the soup through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, add the pieces of Turtle-meat and their stock, and boil again very gently until the meat is quite tender. Remove the saucepan from the fire after adding 1 tumblerful of sherry, turn the whole into a soup- tureen, and serve. A wineglassful of Madeira and the juice of half a lemon, if added a few minutes before serving, are a great improvement to the flavour. Turtle-Soup Stock.—Prepare and cut up a Turtle. Put the pieces of shell over the fire in a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for two or three hours, or until the outer edges of the shell are soft. As the water boils away, add more, always keeping the shells covered. Cut the soft parts of tlie shells into pieces about iin. square, lay them in an earthenware bowl, cover with a wet napkin, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Place the hard parts of the shells again into the water in which it was boiled, put in also one-eighth of the first weight of the Turtle of beef-bones, and one-sixteenth of the weight of veal bones, or of calf’s feet and head cleaned as directed for soup, skinning the calf’s head. On top of these in- gredients lay the neck and fins of the Turtle, and the cushions or rounded muscles at the top of the Turtle fins, unless part of the latter is to be reserved raw for broiling as steaks; add a sufficient quantity of water to cover all, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and let all boil gently for about two hours, or until the bones of the fins separate easily from the flesh. Remove any scum which may rise, and keep the soup-kettle closely covered. When the fins and cushions are tender, take them out of the stock, separate the flesh from the bones, keeping it in good-sized pieces, and put it aside in a cool place until wanted in an earthenware vessel covered with a wet napkin. Return the bones to the stock, add to it the proportions usually employed for soup stock, of carrots, turnips, onions, parsley, sweet herbs, whole cloves, mace, and peppercorns, and boil gently for five hours, keeping the saucepan closely covered. After the liver, eggs, fat, and intestines have been soaked in cold water, boil them