625 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. Truffi.es—co ntinued. flesh variously marbled. The Piedmontese Truffles, on the contrary (which bear a high price, and are highly esteemed), are smooth, and within white, more or less tinged with pink.” Extraordinary stories are told of how Truffles are found by hunting for them with dogs or pigs. This may have been the case at some time or another; but the spots where they are likely to grow are now so well understood that a little perseverance in digging is generally sufficient to produce a find. In Poitou, spaces are sometimes en- closed, and sown with acorns, the result being that when the trees are sufficiently grown to shade the ground Truffles may be found underneath them. The kinds of Truffles with which cooks have mostly to deal are known as the green and the black ; other kinds, such as the white, lack flavour, and are not con- sidered of much culinary value. The red Truffle is sup- posed to be the black before it is ripe; but some authorities consider it to be a separate species. In Africa, Truffles called Terfezia are very abundant, and find their way into this country as substitutes for French Truffles. They are not nearly so strong in flavour. In Perigord, Truffles are abundant, hence Truffle sauce is named Perigueux, and Perigord pies are those containing Truffles, with other dainty meats, such as foies-gras. In England, Truffles are found chiefly in Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Kent. When cut through, the flesh of the Truffle presents a marbled appearance (see Fig. 838). Baked Truffles.—(1) Well wash and scrub lib. or so of Truffles, wrap each one in a piece of buttered paper, put them in the oven or under hot ashes, and bake for one hour. Take them out when done, and they are ready for use. (2) Scrub and well wash twelve large Truffles, cut them up into slices, put them into a baking-dish with 1 teacup - ful of olive oil, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, a blade of mace, a little parsley, and a small onion or shallot. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for one hour, turning the slices frequently so as to cook them evenly on both sides. Take them out when done, drain off the oil, put them on a dish, squeeze over the juice of one lemon, and serve. (3) Cut some large, fresh Truffles into slices, and put them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, and can be served at table; dust them over with salt and pepper, strew over them moderate quantities of finely-minced parsley and shallot, baste them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, put another dish over the top, and put them in the oven. When the Truffles are cooked, squeeze the juice of one small lemon over them, and serve in the same dish. Boiled Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash one dozen or so large Truffles, put them into a saucepan which will just contain Truffles—continued. them, add two or three cloves, a small piece of beaten mace, salt to taste, and pour over sufficient white wine and water, in equal quantities, to cover. Set the saucepan on the fire, cover it over, and cook gently for one hour. Take out the Truffles when done, drain them, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (2) Wash and clean twelve good-sized Truffles, put them in a saucepan with a slice or slices of bacon cut very thin, add a bay-leaf and two cloves, and pour over two breakfast-cupfuls of champagne. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until the Truffles are done, which will take about one hour. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. (3) Peel and wash twelve large-sized Truffles, put them whole into a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine and 3 teacupfuls of rich gravy, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for one hour. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready to be used as a garnish; but should they be required for sauce, another teacupful of the gravy should be added, the Truffles boiled for a-quarter-of-an- hour longer, the whole turned into a tureen, and served. The Truffles for this may be either whole or cut up into slices or shapes. (4) Wash the Truffles clean, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste, pour in sufficient white wine and stock in equal quantities to cover them, and stew them until tender. When the Truffles are cooked, strain their liquor into another saucepan, mix with it a small piece of glaze, and boil it until thickly reduced. Pile the Truffles on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Truffles.—Well wash and peel four or five Truffles, cover them over with slices of bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, wrap them round with four thicknesses of paper dipped in cold water, push them into hot cinders or ashes, and broil them for about fifteen minutes. Take them out when done, remove two thick- nesses or the whole of the paper, put them on a dish, and serve. Dressed Truffles.—Wash half a dozen large Truffles, cut them into thin slices, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity each of finely-chopped parsley and onion, and about ioz. of butter, and fry them. Cut a slice of bread about lin. thick, trim it to a square shape, and hollow out the middle; put this into a frying-pan with a piece of lard, and fry it until nicely and equally browned; then put them on a sieve to drain. Have ready a sauce made as follows : Put 2oz. of butter into a small stewpan with a sliced carrot and onion, and loz. of ham cut into small pieces, and fry until nicely browned ; dredge in 1,- table-spoonful of flour, and add a bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, half a blade of mace, four cloves, and i pint of clear stock, seasoning to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. When ready, put the Truffles in the hollowed slice of bread, and place it on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, strew over some chopped hard-boiled yolk of egg, and serve. Essence of Truffles.—Wash and peel lib. of Truffles, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of chicken broth, h pint of Madeira wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents quickly for twenty minutes; then move the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Truffles in their liquor till cold. ,Strain the essence through a silk sieve, and bottle it for use. The Truffles should not be discarded, as they will be found to still contain sufficient flavour to be used advantageously. Gratinated Truffles.—(1) Scrub, wash, and peel five or six large Truffles, put the trimmings into a saucepan with a little Madeira wine and a few sweet herbs, boil for a few minutes, and strain off' the liquor. Put l breakfast- cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, add gradually the liquor from the Truffle trimmings, and keep the whole warm on the side of the fire. Cut the Truffles into small squares, put them into a saucepan with a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, X-c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. 2 s