TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 643 Turbot—continued. Turbot—continued. and breadcrumb them again. Put a good-sized lump of lard in a fiat stewpan, melt it, then put in the croquettes, and fry them until nicely browned. As they are cooked, take them out of the fat and drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, pile the croquettes in the centre, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut off about ilb. of a cold boiled Turbot, remove the skin and bones, and chop it up very fine. Put a little veloute sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, add a thickening of yolk of egg, sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, and mix in the chopped fish. Turn the prepara- tion out into a basin to cool, form it into croquettes of any shape, dip them into egg beaten up with oil, salt and pepper, roll them well in sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are well browned and crisp. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried sprigs of parsley and tomato or poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. (3) The remains of cold Turbot can be used: remove the skin and bones, and flake the fish. Melt a small lump of butter in a stewpan, and stir in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; when well mixed, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot milk, and continue stirring it over the tire until thickened. Put the fish in the sauce with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and when cold form it into small balls or cork shapes, breadcrumb them, then egg-and-breadcramb them again. Put a lump of butter or lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. Turbot Omelet.—Trim away the skin and bones from some cold remains of Turbot, and flake the fish with two forks. Mix in a stewpan over the fire loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour, then pour in gradually f teacupful of milk, and stir it until boiling. Put the fish into the sauce, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, and add l or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley. Toss the fish over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side. Make some savoury omelets, spread a moderate quantity of the Turbot mixture over each, and fold them over. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Turbot Pie. (1) Well wash and clean a small Turbot; put it into a saucepan of salted water, add a seasoning of cloves, chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Set the saucepan on the fire and let it remain •until the fish is parboiled. Take it out, skin it, and cut it into pieces, rejecting the bones. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the pieces of Turbot, cover with a few slices of hard-boiled eggs, minced onion, and a good supply of butter pulled in lumps; cover with a crust of the paste, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake. Take out the pie when done, and serve either hot or cold. If desired, the Turbot may remain whole without being- skinned or boned. (2) Cut off all the flesh from a parboiled small Turbot, dividing it into small pieces and sprinkling it over with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Tut a layer of these pieces at the bottom of a pie-dish, cover with a little chopped parsley, chives, and sweet basil, and continue in this way until the whole of the ingredients are used up or the dish is full. Place four hard boiled eggs cut in slices round the top, together with 2oz. of butter in small lumps; cover the dish with a good crust, slip it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Turbot Pie a la Dubois. —Cut off the flesh from a small Turbot or half a large one, cut it into fillets or strips about lin. in width, put them into a basin, and sprinkle over with salt and ground spices to taste. Put half-a-dozen eggs into a saucepan of water, boil them hard, take off the shells, cut them up into quarters, sprinkle them over with salt, spices, and chopped parsley, put them into a basin, and cover them over to keep warm. Put a little more than lib. of large semolina on a sieve, sift it thoroughly so as to have none but the large grains, put it into a basin, add the yolk of an egg, mb it well with the hands, add another yolk, mb it well again, smooth it out on a baking-sheet, and dry it in the hot closet or oven. Rub it well again so as to break all the large lumps, put it into a saucepan with a little butter and salted water, and boil it, keeping it stiff and dry. Put two finely-chopped onions into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry them, but without colouring, add a few fresh mushrooms also chopped, and cook until their moisture is reduced ; sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in h tumblerful of white wine, add a bay-leaf, stir well until the liquor boils, cook for a few minutes, sprinkle in a handful of chopped parsley, and lastly the fillets of Turbot. Boil for five minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, and let the whole get cold. Have ready some puff paste at six turns, made with lib. of flour and 12oz. of butter; let it stand for a little while, and roll three-quarters of it out into a flat about 1 foot wide and 2 feet long. • Damp the edges of the paste, mask it in the centre and not to the edge with a little of the semolina when cold; on this arrange, intermixed, the fillets of Turbot, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, the chopped onion-and mushroom mixture, and about two dozen uncooked oysters. Cover the whole with the rest of the semolina, making it into a convex form. Lift the edges of the paste so as to cover the pie, fastening them securely all round, and brush the surface over with well-beaten egg; make a small hole at the top for the steam to escape, decorate the sides with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. After it has been in for a few minutes, cover it with a sheet of paper, tying it round with string to support the paste, and let it remain for about an-hour-and-a-quarter. Put the bones and head of one Turbot into a saucepan with 1 quart of wine and a few vegetables; boil these well together, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the liquor from one dozen oysters blanched in l wineglassful of white wine, and boil for a few minutes; add the yolks of three eggs to thicken, stir for a minute or two, add a small lump of butter, a little chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Remove the saucepan from the fire, add the two dozen oysters, and turn the whole of the sauce into a sauceboat. Take out the pie when done, remove the string and paper, put it on a dish, and serve very hot with the sauce. Turbot Rechauffe.—(1) Free from skin and bone some cold boiled Turbot, and chop the fish finely; mix with it 1 heaped teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, 3oz. of butter, three well-beaten eggs, a few drops of essence of anchovies, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and steam it until hot. Take care that the water does not enter the top of the mould. When ready, turn the rechauffe on to a hot dish, pour a melted butter sauce O'er it, and serve. (2) Boil two eggs hard and chop them; cut some cold Turbot into small pieces. Tut loz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quan- tity of grated nutmeg. When on the point of boiling, put in the chopped eggs and the fish, and the same quantity of mashed potatoes as there is fish. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, adding more butter if necessary. File the whole high up on a hot dish, brown the surface under a salamander, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Turbot Rechauffe and Tomato Sauce.—Peel and slice two Spanish onions, put them into a stewpan with plenty of olive oil, and let them simmer over a gentle fire until quite tender but not browned. Flake some cold boiled Turbot, being very careful to remove all the skin and bone; put them in with the onions, pour in a few table- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. T o