458 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Smoke-jack—continued. Smelts—continued. minutes). When cooked, serve the fish in the same dish, and while very hot. Smelts en Matelote.—Put a chopped onion, two or three mushrooms, a sprig of parsley, and a small piece of garlic into a saucepan; pour a little oil over them, and season with pepper and salt. Clean the Smelts, put them into the stewpan, pour over 1 teacupful of champagne, and let them simmer gently until cooked. Put the Smelts on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and serve. Smelts a la Toulouse.—Take twelve large or eighteen medium-sized Smelts, hone them, and then close them up again. Put them in a stewpan with J- Avineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with \ pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and cook over a moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the Smelts on a dish. Add to the sauce twelve button-mush- rooms, two sliced truffles, six fish quenelles, and moisten with | pint of German sauce. Thicken with 1 table-spoon ful of butter, and pour the sauce over the Smelts. Neatly dress the garnishing round the dish, and serve with croutons of fiied bread (see Fig. 591). Smelts as Garnish..—Clean and draw the Smelts, fasten the tails in the openings at the gills with small wooden skewers so as to form rings, dip them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb or cracke-rcrumb, put them into a frying-basket, and plunge them into boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the fish, remove the skewers, and they will retain their ring shape. Smelt Salad.—Put some Smelts into a saucepan of water and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then drain and leave them till cold. Split the Smelts into halves length- wise, remove the bones, and cut the fish into pieces about lin. long. Wash and drain two lettuces, pull the leaves asunder, and place them in a salad-bowl; then put in the fish, strew it with finely-chopped anchovies, and pour a remoulade dressing over the salad. Garnish it to taste with beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, &c., and serve. Smelts Sautes in Brown Butter.—Remove the gills, clean and wash the Smelts, and when well dried roll them in flour. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the Smelts and brown them, turning them when done on one side, and cook them on the other. Arrange some slices of hot buttered toast on a hot dish, put the fish on them, and serve at once. Stewed Smelts.—Clean the Smelts and arrange them in a pie-dish; sprinkle over some chopped onions, capers, mixed herbs, and a little salt ; pour in 1 wineglassful of chablis wine, and cover the fish with v eal or fish stock, and stew them in a moderate oven till tender. The Smelts should be served while hot, and in the same dish. Stuffed Smelts.—Cut oil' the fins of eighteen fresh, medium- sized Long Island Smelts, and wash and dry well with a towel; remove the insides without splitting the stomachs open, then stuff them with a fish forcemeat, using a paper cornet for the purpose. Lay the Smelts on a well-buttered baking-dish (silver if possible), and cover them with 1 pint of Italian sauce. Put them in a hot oven and bake for eight minutes; remove them, squeeze over the juice of a large lemon, and serve in the same dish. SMOKE-JACK.—A contrivance for turning roasting- spits by means of a fly-wheel worked by the current of hot air ascending the chimney. This wheel is so arranged that, as the current flows up, it presses upon the slanting fans of the wheel, and causes it to spin round; the vertical axle of the wheel is fitted with a shoulder cog-wheel that acts upon another fitted upon a long rod, which turns the wheel that works the spit. SMOKING.—See Curing. SNAILS (Fr. Escargots; Ger. Schnecken; Ital. Lumaclie; Sp. Limazas).—History does not inform us who first ventured upon eating Snails. He must have been a hungry man indeed ! History does, however, tell us that Snails were held in the very highest esteem as a food amongst the ancient Greeks and Romans ; the latter regarded them in the light of the most luxurious delicacies, large sums of money being spent for breeding and fattening them. The edible snail (Helix pomatia) is a member of a large family, nearly if not quite all of whom would probably be edible provided they fed only on non-poisonous herbs. In France the vinery and apple-orchard Snail is eaten; it is very large growing, well-formed, handsome, pinky, whitey-brown shell and mottled body (see Fig. 592). Those caught in the vineyards of Bourgoyne are con- Fig. 592. Edible Snail. sidered the best. They are imported into this country from France, although some are to be found at a certain spot in the neighbourhood of Sevenoaks, where it is asserted a large vineyard once stood. The nutritive value of Snails is greatly exaggerated, being far below that of the oyster; and as cases of poisoning through eating Snails are not unknown, due, no doubt, to the Snail feed- ing on a poisonous plant, they are not likely to become a favourite food in this country until we have vineyards of our own wherein to feed them, and perhaps not then. Snails should be collected in the winter time, if they can be found, as they purify themselves of noxious matters by a long fast. They should be kept until the Spring time, and then fed on freshly-gathered sweet herbs; in this way they acquire exceptional value. The following receipts have been contributed by our French chefs, one Fig. 593. Snail-fork. of whom is said to be the inventor of a fork (see Fig. 593) for removing the cooked Snails from their shells. Such an instrument might be of service to periwinkle eaters if it were made somewhat small. Snails are cleaned by putting them in boiling water with some wood ashes, and leaving them until they have thrown their cover wide open, which will take about a- quarter-of-an-hour; they should then be taken out and picked carefully out of their shells with a fork. Put them in a basin of tepid water and leave for two or three hours.