630 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. Truffle Tart.—Wash and pick 211). of Truffles, put them into a stewpan lined with thin slices of ham, put in with them a peeled and sliced onion, two slices of carrot, a little mixed dried and powdered herbs, a little salt, and a bay-leaf, and moisten with champagne. Lay thin rashers of bacon on top, cover the stewpan, and stew the contents almost to a jelly. Let this cool, and then put it into a tin lined with crust, and bake. Truffles on Toast.—Peel and wash a dozen very large Truffles, cut them in slices, put them into a frying-pan with 6 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and cook them slowly for a few minutes; add a bruised clove of garlic, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, and 6 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce. j Stir well over the fire until the Truffles are done, add a little moist sugar and the juice of a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish over a slice of toast or fried bread, and serve. Truffles Cooked in Wine.—Well wash and scrub clean four or five Truffles, put them, with their peel on, into a saucepan, moisten them to a third of their height with white wine, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a small quantity of salt. Set the saucepan on a quick fire, cover it over, and boil for about eight or ten minutes, the time allowed being determined by the size of the Truffles. Take out the Truffles, brush them over with a little melted glaze, dry them at the oven-door or in a hot closet, put them on a dish, and serve. Should th y be required for garnish, they must be peeled, and then five minutes’ cooking will suffice. TRUSSING.—The origin of this term is somewhat doubtful, the meaning generally having a reference to binding or fixing in some way or another. Taken in this sense its ordinary application would be very extensive, Fig. 843. Turkish Kabobs. including any act whereby foods are prepared for the kitchen by the use of skewers, strings, or other mode of mechanical restraint. Prom this it will be understood that not a little of the art of the cook depends upon Fig. 844. Aiguillette. skilful Trussing, a detail that is far too often left to the purveyor to carry out, he frequently taking advantage of this to conceal some defect in the articles he is purveying. Fig. 845. Attereaux of Goose’s Fat Liver. A thin fowl, for instance, has the breast-bone smashed down to flatten the breast and give the bird the appear- ance of solidity. Small fresh haddocks are skinned and Trussing—continued. trussed with the tail in the mouth or passed through the eyes to resemble whiting, for which they are un- blusliingly sold. Such tricks are prevented if the cook I ig. 846. Roasted Reed-birds. does the Trussing. Unfortunately the subject has been almost entirely disregarded by writers on cookery, as much from ignorance as neglect, and perhaps more so, seeing that so few cooks, or professors of cookery, are versed in the merest rudiments of Trussing. Fig. 847. Calf s Kidney Trussed for Broiling. In commencing these instructions on Trussing it must be acknowledged that there is a great deal to be gained by artistic Trussing. The appearance of the article depends very much upon this, and convenience in carving or serving is of the first importance. This latter con- sideration will be especially studied in the following directions. The simplest mode of Trussing resembles that adopted by our ancestors, the ancient Britons, who threaded pieces Fig. 849. Boiled Crimped Skate. of meat on long wooden sticks or steaks, upon which they toasted them before the fire. We have examples of this in the modern Turkish Kabobs (see Pig. 843), which are merely shapely pieces of meat served on small wooden