555 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <£•(!., referred to, see under their special heads. Syrup—continued. Syrup makers generally use Baume’s Saccliarometer or Hydrometer, and where Syrup of any degree is specified in this Encyclopaedia, reference is made to the indications of this instrument. The following receipts will be found useful for most purposes: Excelsior Syrup. —Put 1 pint of plain Syrup into a bottle, and add 4oz. each of Syrup of wild cherry bark and port wine. Mix well, and use as required. Fancy Syrup.—This is obtained by mixing 1 pint of vanilla Syrup in a bottle or jar with 4oz. each of pine apple and raspberry Syrups. Corking and using as required. Golden Syrup.—Put 5lb. of preserving-sugar in a sugar- boiler with lqt. of water. Stir the sugar till dissolved, then boil it for two or three minutes. Mix 21b. of strained honey with the Syrup, and turn it into the jars. Indian Syrup.—Dissolve 241b. of loaf sugar and loz. of citric acid in Jgall. of boiling water; leave it until cold, then mix in 4 drachm of essence of lemon and half that quantity of spirits of wine. Stir until all the ingredients are well mixed, then pour the Syrup into a bottle and keep it tightly corked. A teacupful of this Syrup mixed in 1 pint of cold water will make a very refreshing summer drink. Maple Syrup.—This is obtained by reducing maple sugar and water to a Syrup, using 41b. of tire former to 2 pints of the latter. Simple or Plain Syrup for Cordials or Liqueurs.— Put 7H>. of sugar into a vessel with bgall. of water, close the vessel securely, and dissolve the sugar by gentle heat. Strain it and use as required. Using sugar and water in these proportions will produce a Syrup 58deg. of Twaddell’s hydrometer, and will contain 741b. of sugar per gallon. Stock or Store Syrup.—Put 14lb. of loaf sugar (or beet- root sugar may be used) into a preserving-pan with 2qts. of cold water, set the pan on the fire, and stir in the whites and shells of three eggs. Whisk well until about to boil, let it rise in the pan, and at once remove it from the heat. A gas-stove is best for this as it can be turned off immediately. Pour the Syrup into a jelly-bag pre-' viously dipped in boiling water and wrung out, and filter until perfectly clear, repeating the process if necessary until a pale straw colour is obtained. Reduce the Syrup over the fire, and bottle off for use. Syrup for Compotes.—Put some loaf sugar in a sugar- boiler, cover it with water, stir it till dissolved, then boil quickly. Skim the Syrup, squeeze in a little lemon juice, and boil it till thick, so that it can be drawn in threads between the finger and thumb. Flavour the Syrup, and use it for the compote for which it has been prepared. Syrup of Gum.—Thoroughly wash Jib. of gum, and soak it in 1 pint of water till it has dissolved. Strain the water through a piece of linen, wringing it so that none of the gum shall be wasted. Stir lib. of sugar in the water till dissolved, then mix it with the gum water, flavour with a little orange-flower water, and bottle. Syrup for Ices.—Put the required quantity of loaf sugar in a sugar-boiler, just cover it with water, and stir it by the side of the fire till dissolved; then put it over the fire and boil quickly till it is of the consistency of rather thin gum. The Syrup is then ready for the ices. Syrup for Lemonade.—Boil 141b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of water, mix in it 4oz. of tartaric acid, and leave it till cold. ^ Flavour the Syrup with essence of lemon, and bottle it. When ready to make the lemonade, use 1 teacupful of the Syrup for every pint of water. Syrup for Preserving Fruits.—Put 7lb. of granulated sugar into a sugar-pan, add 5 pints of cold water, and when on the hot stove stir with the spatula until thoroughly heated, but without boiling. Remove the Syrup from the fire, put it aside, and use when needed. The above quantity will produce 5qts. at 30deg. Fahr. Thin Stock or Drinking-Syrup.—Pour 2qts. of boiling water over lqt. of stock Syrup and use as required. It is ■ For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Syrup—continued. best kept in a jar with a tap to it so that it can lie easily drawn off. -Cold distilled water may be substituted for the boiling water. TABLES.—Derived from the Latin tabula—a flat board, or slab of any kind. From a teclmical point of j view there is little that needs to be inserted in an Ency- \ clopsedia of Cookery concerning Tables, beyond a description of those most useful for kitchen and serving purposes. The dining-table, or board upon which viands are spread for consumption, leads up to an extensive and interesting subject, which must be dealt with hereafter. A very important piece of furniture is the kitchen-' table. There may be dresser-boards, shelves, and flaps, but ail are useless to the cook as compared with a Table. Upon the kitchen-table meats are prepared, seasoned, and dished, sauces mixed and blended, and many other culi- nary acts performed. It should be made, therefore, of stout deal, as large as the size of the kitchen will permit, fitted with convenient drawer for holding knives, forks, spoons, clean kitchen cloths, and other requisites. Not only should the Table be the most prominent piece of i furniture in the kitchen, to which all other fittings must play a supernumerary or supplemental part, but it should be kept at all times ready for immediate use, uncovered, and scrupulously clean. The practice of using the Table for a chopping-board, trimming-board, pot-board, or for making paste, cannot be too strongly condemned; the sur- face becomes in such cases scratched and unsightly. Dining- or eating-tables have for centuries past occu- pied a good deal of attention, opinions varying greatly as to what the shape and size should be. The first idea of a Table possibly originated in the use of a flat rock as a resting-place for food. In later years eating-tables were made round or oval, and only large enough to accommo- date two guests (a custom that might be encouraged in these times when a plentiful supply of neatly-laid gipsy- tables might be used for drawing-room teas). The modern dining-table is either round, rectangular, or rectangular with rounded corners, and made large enough to dine several persons at the same time. Round Tables are not patronised so much in this country as formerly, but they still find favour in several parts of America, where some of them are so large in diameter that the centres are quite beyond reach. Long rectangular Tables, j with more or less rounded corners, are generally pre- ferred. The size of the Table will very much depend upon the number of guests it is intended to entertain, and j the area of the room. According to a famous classic the number of guests should not exceed that of the Muses, nor be less than the Graces. The size of the Table, then, j should be based upon those numbers, allowing 30in. of space in width for each person, or a trifle more for ladies. Behind the chairs, between them and the wall, there should not be less than 6ft. in any part. As regards the proportion of length to breadth, the length may exceed the breadth by a quarter, one-third, one-half, and, in rare cases, by three-quarters. Anything beyond that would enter the list of Tables described under Banquets, and of which the subjoined engraving (see Fig. 734) is a superior arrangement. A writer on dining observes that “ generally the modern dining-table errs on the side of too great solidity. The first quality of a Table obviously is that it should be firm on its legs, but there is no reason for exaggerating its strength into clumsiness. Furthermore, the dining- table of richly-carved oak, walnut, rosewood, or mahogany, is a useless luxury ; the ornamentation is misplaced, ancl often fatal to knees ; the richness of the material itself is lost, inasmuch as the Table is always covered with a cloth.” A French writer of the latter part of the eighteenth century, writing on cabinet-making and furniture, says that “ eating-tables are not susceptible of any decoration;