663 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Turnips—con t inued. the soup, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it •with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (4) Cut about a quarter of a large Turnip into slices, brown them slightly in a little butter, stirring them fre- quently so as to keep them equally coloured, put them into a saucepan with the required quantity of fowl con- somme (about lqt. will he sufficient), and boil for two hours. Rub the Turnips with the broth through a fine sieve, pour in more soup if required, boil up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, remove all the scum, add a little moist sugar to very slightly sweeten, pour the whole into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toast separately. Turnips in White Sauce.—Peel the Turnips, wash them, and turn them to any shape required. Put the Turnips in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of butter and a small quantity of salt, and boil them till tender. Drain them on a colander, put them on a hot dish, pour 4 pint of hot white sauce over them, and serve. Turnip-tops.—The young shoots of the field Turnip (see Fig. 910) form a very excellent vegetable in early spring, when fresh cut and used as greens. They have a very pleasant bitter flavour, and are a very good substitute for spinach. Boiled Turnip-tops.—Take young Turnip tops gathered in the spring, wash, and drain them well. Plunge them into plenty of fast boiling water with a small quantity of salt in it, and let them boil for rather more than twenty minutes. Drain them well, and serve either plain or chopped fine and mixed with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of butter. Puree of Turnip-tops.—Thoroughly wash and pick over a quantity of Turnip tops, put them in a saucepan of boil- ing water, anil boil them until they are tender. Turn the greens on to a fine sieve, press them well to extract all the water, and when almost dry rub them through the sieve. Put in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until well incorporated ; then put in the Turnip tops, moisten with a very small quantity of clear gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the panic over the fire until very hot, then turn it on to a dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Turnip-tops and Poached Eggs.—Pick the Turnip-tops carefully over, removing the dead leaves; wash the remain- der in plenty of water, put them into a saucepan with a moderate quantity of water, and stew them until tender; then drain them well and rub them through a sieve. Put Hoz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; put in the Turnip-tops, season to taste with salt and pepper, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, and then move them to the side where they will keep hot. Pour some water into a shallow stewpan, put in it some leaves of parsley, a few peppercorns, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Turnips—continued. vinegar. When the water commences to boil, move it to the side of the fire where it will just simmer, break in carefully as many eggs as will conveniently float on the top, put the lid on the pan, and leave them until cooked. Take the eggs up carefully with a slice, brush them over on each side with a soft paste-brush, and cut them to a uniform size with a round fluted tin cutter. Put the Turnip-tops on a hot dish, pat them down evenly, lay the poached eggs on the top, garnish with small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter (see Fig. 911), and serve quickly. Turnip-top Salad.—Pick out the best of the Turnip-tops, wash them well, and tie them up in bundles. Put them in a saucepan with plenty of salted boiling water, and boil them until tender. When cooked, put them on a sieve in front of the fire to drain thoroughly, then arrange them on a dish. Make a dressing of three parts oil with one part vinegar, season to taste with salt and pepper, beat it well, pour it over the Turnip-tops, and serve. TURNIP BREAD.—See Bread. TURNOVERS.—Pies or tarts made by turning one half of the crust over the other and enclosing the fruit or other material. They are usually of a semicircular shape, the original sheet of paste being circular. Several receipts for these will be found under special headings. TURNSPITS.—A small breed of dogs, having long bodies and short crooked legs. They were at one time trained to work a sort of tread-mill which turned the roasting-spits. The distorted shape of their fore-legs might have been convenient for the purpose, but is not the result of the function required of them. Like a good many other uses or abuses to which dogs were formerly trained, this has received its quietus. TURTLE (Fr. Tortue ; Ger. Schildkrbte).—To the “ Alderman of Bristol ” we are indebted for our first experience of the delights to be found in a dish of Turtle. The city of Bristol appears, by the following lines, written by a Bristol Alderman, to have been at one time more famous than the city of London for its civic gluttony. 1 hate French cooks, but love their wine, On fricassee 1 scorn to dine, And bad’s the best ragout; Let me of claret have my fill, Let me have Turtle to my will In one large mighty stew. All boons in one I ask of fate: At city feasts to eat my weight, And drink enough to swim in. The magic name of Turtle—real Turtle—gave then, and gives now, a sort of royal ring to the menu, which cannot fail to attract the gourmet’s attention. At one time the cost of a Turtle rendered its introduction prohibitory at any but a wealthy feast, it being compulsory to use a whole “ fish,” which would weigh from 601b. to 2001b. Recently Turtle-flesh has been imported after having been dried in the sun, and in this state only so much need be used as may be required for preparing a very small quantity of soup. Several other preparations are also now