THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 556 For detals respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tables —continued. they consist simply of several planks of pine, or some other light wood joined together with tongue and groove, and bound with oak at the ends. These Tables, or rather these Table-tops, are almost all of one shape—that is to say, a parallelogram, larger or smaller, according to the number of covers.” The writer of the above calculates that at least 2ft. should be allowed to each cover, or, better still, 3ft. when there are ladies, because of the' room their dresses take up. Fig. 731. Plan of Banqueting-tables. a, Chair; b, Vice-chair. Horse-shoe Tables were at one time greatly in vogue, the guests sitting at the outside curve, and the service being from within. These Tables were never more than 3ft. wide, which enabled the waiters to reach the guests without difficulty. A certain Frenchman named Gilliers, chei-d’office (head butler) to King Stanislaus, in a very rare work printed and published by him in the year 1761, gives a number of engravings of quaint Table arrangements. Not only does the writer give a full description of the shape, but he also gives ample directions for constructing it. In a valuable little book on delicate dining, the author (Mr. Theodore Child) has gone extensively into the subject of dining- or eating-tables, and to him the credit of much of this information is due. He informs us that, “ In the Middle Ages, which were far more refined in manners than most people believe, the general disposi- tion of the dining-table was borrowed from the usage of the abbeys and convents, and it was precisely the disposition still maintained in the English universities at the present day. The principal Table was laid on a raised platform or floor, at the upper end of the dining- hall, and received the name of high-table, a term still in use at Oxford and Cambridge. The guests sat on one side of the Table only; the place of honour was in the centre, and the principal personage sat under a canopy or cloth of state, hung up for the occasion, or under a permanent panelled canopy curving outwards.” The picture of the “ Last Supper,” by Leonardo da Vinci, represents the guests seated on one side and at both ends. This coincides with the arrangement of the guests in Pinturrichio’s pictures of “ The Story of Griseldis ” in the National Gallery (London). Another arrangement, shown in a picture by Botticelli, is that of the women on one side of one Table and the men on the outer side of another Table, the two Tables being arranged parallel. Benvenuto Cellini, in his entertaining autobiography, gives an account of a supper party, which Mr. Theodore Child has translated for us thus: “ When the banquet was served and ready, and we were going to sit down to Table, Giulio asked leave to be allowed to place us. This being granted, he took the women by one hand, and arranged them all upon the inner side with my Tables—continued. belle in the centre; then he placed all the men on the outside, and me in the middle. As a background to the women there was spread an espalier of jasmines in full beauty, which set off their charms to such great advan- tage that words would fail to describe the effect.” Tables that appeared mysteriously ready laden with the repast will be mentioned under Table Service. TABLE CUSTOMS.—As regards the term Table in its gastronomic sense, to do it full justice the whole of this Encyclopaedia must be included. Every item that treats of food, drink, earthenware, china, plated goods, silver, cutlery, linen, their preparation and arrangement, appertains to the Table. The host and his guests seated round the festive or social board are part and parcel of the Table, just as King Arthur and his knights were part and parcel of the historical Round Table—what would the Table be with- out them ! Cookery books in numbers have been written for the direction of those who serve the godlike Table; but there are few worthy of the name of text books, giving either too much or too little, and so unintelligibly arranged as to be little else than deceivers. Names of dishes and modes of their preparation are undefined, varying con- siderably in every case; so much so that the menu (which should grace every spread Table) is no longer an indication of what is to come. It has been said that there are no less than five hundred receipts for soup; but these are probably diversions of a few that are standard, either in the ingredients, mode of preparation, serving, or name. Apropos of this subject, Kettner observes that: “ In the whole range of literature and science there is nothing to be found comparable to the inaccuracy and corruption of culinary language. It is something astounding. It seems as if all the ignorance in the world had conspired together to darken speech and to stupefy cooks. There is no science of cookery possible without a correct phrase- ology. Science is but another name for clear and classified knowledge, and the first step to it is precision of speech. At the present moment the vocabulary of the Table (dinner, in text) is a mass of confusion and ridicu- lous mistakes, which is every day becoming worse and worse through ignorant importation of French names (originally themselves bad enough) into English bills of fare.” “ It comes of abominable pretension,” continues this entertaining author, and he might have added, “ and an insane notion that no cookery but French can possibly be delectable.” He gives us the following examples, to which many more might be added that are familiar to us : “ A leg of good English mutton—the best in the world—will be entered as Gigot of Pre Sale. What on earth has become of the English Soutlidowns that they should be described as a French Salt Marsh ? I have seen a fillet- steak served with tomatoes, entered as ‘ Filet de Boeuf a l’Orientale,’ under a notion that tomatoes came originally from the East and not from the West, and that the people of the East are given to eating beef. This is not merely pretension, it is perfidy. You order the Oriental fillet expecting one thing, and you get something quite different.” The ignorance of the English cook in culinary nomen- clature is remarkable, hence we find in a modern menu Jambon d’Ham, the word jambon being a ham, making the translation therefor “ a ham of ham.” The French cook will speak of a Biftek de Mouton, a Rosbif dAgneau—signifying a mutton beef steak, and roast beef of lamb. The very first chefs in the land are apt to make some such blunders, due, in a great measure, to a mad desire to use a language that they do not understand. These are customs which originate in the kitchen, but affect the Table, and, therefore, as a stepping-stone to