594 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. • Tomato christened the Ham Green Favourite (see Fig. 792). The small ribbed Tomato, which, in its unculti- vated state (see Fig. 793), is exceedingly irregular in shape, assumes a very even and shapely appearance (see Fig. 794) after being subject to the care of the expert grower. In the “ Treasury of Botany ” we read, “ Tomatoes are much more commonly used for food in the South of Europe and other parts of the Continent than they are in this country. Near Rome and Naples whole fields are covered with them, the fruit being one of the most com- mon articles used in Italian cookery. Now that their agreeable qualities are better known, they are beginning to be more generally appreciated with us, and, in addition to those grown in this country, considerable quantities are imported from the Continent.” Fig. 793. Ribbed Tomato Fig. 791 Ribbed Tomato (Inferior Type). (Improved Type). Tomatoes, although associated in kind with poisonous plants, are perfectly wholesome as food, and may be eaten freely without fear of injury ; indeed, they are believed to exercise a healthful influence over the liver and other organs of the body. The word Tomato is derived from the Spanish-American Tomate. For some preparations it is ordered that the Tomatoes shall be peeled. This can be effected by dipping them into boiling water, and leaving them there for two or three minutes. Then the outside skin can be easily removed. The seeds, which are very plentiful, can be removed by passing the pulp through a sieve. Baked Tomatoes.—(1) Peel lqt. of Tomatoes without scald- ing them, cut them up into slices, and remove the seeds. Put a layer of these at the bottom of an earthenware pie-dish, sprinkle over 1 teacupful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, and the crumb of half a French roll pulled in small bits and intermixed with a few small lumps of butter. Put another layer of all of these in the same order, first Tomatoes and then the seasoning, cover with grated crackers or hard brown biscuits, make the surface brown in a moderate oven, and serve. (2) Cut oil' a small piece from the tops of half -a-dozen Toma- toes, scoop out some of the inside, and insert a little butter, salt, and pepper. Put the Tomatoes into a baking-dish, set it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take out the Tomatoes when done, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve. (3) Procure six large ripe Tomatoes and plunge them for a minute into boiling water; take them out, remove the thin skin, divide them in halves, and squeeze out the seeds. Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt, f saltspoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg into ‘2oz. of fresh butter. Arrange the Tomatoes in a single layer on a baking-dish, the cut side upwards, put an equal portion of the seasoned butter on each, and bake in a brisk oven. When done, pour the juice of a lemon over them, lay them upon hot buttered toast, and pour over the gravy which is in the dish with them. Serve very hot. , (4) Fry jib. of sausages or sausage-meat. Wash a dozen ripe firm Tomatoes of medium size, cut a small slice from the stem end of each one, and scoop out the interior with a teaspoon. Chop this very fine, mix it thoroughly with the fried sausage, season with salt and pepper, and then use it to stuff the Tomatoes. Set the stuffed Tomatoes in a dripping-pan just large enough to hold them, dust cracker- or bread-crumbs over the tops, put a very small I Tomatoes—continued. bit of butter on each, and then bake them for half-an- hour in a hot oven. Remove them from the dripping-pan to a hot dish without breaking them, and serve quickly with a gravy made as follows: After dishing the Toma- toes, set the dripping-pan in which they were baked over the fire, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of dry flour, and let it brown; then stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season highly with salt and pepper, let it boil for A minute, and it is ready for use. (5) Cut the desired quantity of Tomatoes into slices; butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a layer of bread- crumbs, then put in a layer of Tomatoes, and season with salt and pepper. Put in the ingredients in alternate layers until the dish is full, making the last layer of bread- crumbs ; put a few lumps of butter on the top, and bake until nicely browned. Serve the Tomatoes while hot in the same dish. (6) Rutter a pie-dish. Scald in boiling water as many Tomatoes as will fill it. Cut them in thick slices, and lay them in the dish; season with salt and pepper anil 1 dessert-spoonful of Yorkshire Relish, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, stick small bits of butter over the top, and bake for half-an-hour. (7) Take five or six Tomatoes of an equal size, cut them in halves, scrape out the pips, and fill the insides with finely-sifted breadcrumbs seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a little piece of butter on each half Tomato, lay them close together in a well-buttered tin, put them in a slow oven, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. (8) On Toast.—Cut the Tomatoes in halves, dust them over with salt and pepper, lay them on a baking-disli, the cut side upwards, and bake in a brisk oven. Cut as many rounds of bread as there are halves of Tomatoes, toast them a nice golden brown on both sides, and butter them Fig. 795. Baked Tomatoes. while hot. When the Tomatoes are cooked, put a half on each round of toast. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the toast on it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 795), and serve. Bottled Tomato Juice.—Put lqt. or so of Tomatoes into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them gently until they are quite soft. Rub them through a fine sieve, taking care not to let the skins or seeds go through, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and a little sugar. Put the liquor back into the saucepan, and boil well until it thickens. Let it cool, pour it into wide-mouthed jars, cover with hot beef suet, tie them over securely, and they arp ready for use. They will keep for years if unopened and put in a dry place. Broiled Tomatoes.—(1) Cut in halves six large Tomatoes, scoop out the seeds, sprinkle them over inwardly with seasoned breadcrumbs, put them in the double broiler over the fire with the skin side downwards, and broil them for about ten minutes. When done, put them carefully on a dish, with small lumps of butter placed here and there, push the dish in the oven, and cook for ten minutes. Serve very hot. (2) Take six good-sized, firm, red, fresh Tomatoes, pare the under parts in case anything adheres, wipe them, and cut them in halves. Lay them on a dish, season with a pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil, mixed well together. Keep the Tomatoes in as good shape as when cut, then arrange them in a double broiler, put them on a moderate fire, and cook for eight minutes on each side. Place in a hot dish, spread over them 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve. (3) Choose large, firm Tomatoes; wash them in cold water, and wipe them dry Have ready a double wire