647 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <lcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Boiled Turkey a l’Anglaise.—Take a very fine tender Turkey of about 5lb. weight, singe and draw it, and truss with a needle from the wing to the leg. Put it into the soup pot, cook for one hour, and remove to a hot dish. Decorate the dish with 1 pint of cooked spinach a l’Anglaise and six slices of hot cooked lean ham. Serve with \ breakfast- cupful of hot broth poured over the Turkey so as to keep it moist. Boiled Turkey a 1’Ecarlate.—Singe and draw a Turkey, and stuff it with a mixture of breadcrumbs and chopped beef-suet, highly seasoned. Truss the bird as for boiling, put it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small bunch of fresh celery leaves, and a few cloves and pepper- corns. Pour in sufficient hot broth and toppings to reach the top of the bird, boil it up, cover the Turkey with a sheet of buttered paper, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put on the lid, and keep the liquor simmering gently for two hours. Boil two pickled ox-tongues, and put them on the fire so that they may be cooked at the same time as the Turkey. When cooked, drain the tongues and Tqrkey, and remove the string from the bird. Take 1 pint of the cooking liquor of the Turkey, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stew- pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix a liaison of three yolks of eggs with the sauce, stir it by the side of the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. Put the Turkey on a hot dish, ornament the breast with tarragon-leaves, garnish it with slices of tongue that have been cut off the thickest parts, and pour over a little rich gravy. Serve the Turkey with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with. Celery Sauce.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss a fine, fat Turkey, wrap it up in slices of bacon, put it in a saucepan with the juice of a lemon, a small lump of butter, a piece of salt, and sufficient water to cover it, and boil it. Cut the stalks off some heads of celery, q>eel the heads and wash them well, blanch them, and stew them in a blanc (see Blanc) for vegetables. When tender, drain the heads of celery, cut them into pieces about lin. or ljin. long, and put them into some hot bechamel sauce. When the Turkey is cooked, drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve it. (2) Prepared the same as for A l'Anglaise, substi- tuting 1 pint of hot celery sauce, served in a sauceboat, in lieu of the hot broth poured over. (3) Prepare as for Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce, substituting celery, washed and chopped up, for the oysters, both in the stuffing and in the sauce, and taking care that the celery used for the sauce is very white and tender. (4) Singe and draw a Turkey, wash it inside and out in warm water, dry it, and rub it over well with lemon- juice. Put 3oz. of butter into a large saucepan, melt it, then put in the Turkey, with two or three small onions two sliced carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs including a few sprigs of parsley, half a blade of mace, a few pepper- corns, three or four cloves, and a small lump of salt. Pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the bird, and boil it over a gentle fire, removing the scum as it rises to the top. Prepare the sauce as follows: Procure two large white heads of celery, trim them, wash thoroughly, and cut them into convenient lengths ; put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns, and boil them. When very tender, drain the celery well, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire to mix them; next put in the celery, and bring it to the desired con- sistency with milk, stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with Egg Sauce.—The same as for a l’Anglaise, serving with 1 pint of hot egg sauce separately. Boiled Turkey with Oysters.—Prepare and truss a nice hen Turkey for boiling. Blanch a sufficient quantity Turkeys—continued. of oysters in their own liquor, then beard them, and stuff the Turkey with them. Procure a stone jar with a tightly-fitting lid that Mull just hold the Turkey, put in the bird, put on the lid, solder round the edges of the jar with a flour-and-water paste to keep it perfectly air- tight, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time remove the lid of the jar, and strain whatever liquor may be in it into a small stewpan, mixing with it the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 teacupful of thick cream. Blanch a few oysters in their own liquor, put them into the sauce, and let all simmer for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Place the bird on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce round it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce.—(1) Choose a tender hen Turkey weighing about 7lb., have it carefully plucked, singed, and wiped with a wet towel, cut off the head and feet, and draw it without breaking the intes- tines ; stuff it with equal quantities of stale bread and oysters seasoned with salt and pepper, or truss it un- stuffed. Put it over the fire in sufficient boiling water to cover it, remove all scum as it rises, and boil the Turkey gently for about two hours, or until it is tender. Put the bird on a dish, and serve oyster sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Proceed as for A l’Anglaise, serving with 1 pint of hot oyster sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Singe and draw a Turkey, wash it inside and out in warm water, and rub it all over with lemon-juice. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, and put in the bird with a few sliced carrots, two or three onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few' sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, Jib. of butter, moderate quantities of cloves and mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil the Turkey slowdy, removing all the scum as it rises to the top. Prepare the following sauce: Partially boil two dozen oysters in their ovm liquor, then drain them, remove their beards, and cut the oysters into quarters. The liquor should be strained and reserved. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in the oyster liquor and sufficient cold milk to make the required quantity of sauce, add half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, and a very small quantity of cayenne pjepper. When the sauce boils, put in the oysters, and leave them until quite hot. Remove the mace and bay-leaf from the sauce, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. When the Turkey is cooked, drain it, place it on a hot dish, and serve with the above sauce. Boiled Turkey Stuffed with Celery.—Wash half a head of celery, chop it very fine, mix 4 heaped breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated stale breadcrumbs with it, add 1J table-spoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonful of pepper, 2oz. of warmed butter, and two beaten eggs, and stir till vrell mixed. Stuff the Turkey with the mixture, sew up the openings, and truss it. Rinse a cloth in cold water, wring it out, and dredge it thickly with flour. Wrap the Turkey in the cloth, tying it securely, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes; then move it to the side and let it simmer. Allow three hours for a Turkey weighing 91b., and twelve minutes for every additional pound. When cooked, drain the bird, put it on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of celery sauce. Boiled Turkey in Yorkshire Style.—Singe a Turkey, cut off the legs, and scald them. Bone the bird without removing the wings. Prepare some veal forcemeat, anil stuff the Turkey with it, leaving room for a boiled tongue, which push down the centre of the forcemeat. Sew up the openings, truss the bird for boiling, inserting the legs in their proper position, and tie it up in a cloth. Put the Turkey in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it simmer gently for one-hour-and-a-half or more, according to the size. When cooked, drain and take the Turkey out of the cloth, put it on a hot dish, pour some white sauce over, and serve it.