TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 440 For detail* rexpecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. brains and tongue. Put it in a saucepan with a few prepared vegetables, such as carrots, onions, celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Pour in sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for three hours. Tie the brains in a piece of muslin and boil them. Mince the liver and lights, and fry them in butter, and boil the tongue. When cooked, drain the head, strew plenty of breadcrumbs over it, and brown it in a brisk oven. Spread the mince of liver and lights on a hot dish, lay the head open on it, garnish round with slices of the tongue and brains, and serve. (3) Clean a Sheep’s Head, take out the tongue and brains, and put the head in a basin of tepid water to soak. Break all the small bones in the inside with a knife, and clean it thoroughly. Put it in a saucepan, cover it over with water, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and let it boil in this for five minutes; then pour off the liquor, and add Jgall. of water, two carrots and turnips, six onions, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently until the meat will readily come from the bones, which will be after three or four hours cooking. Put the meat on a hot dish, and pour over a little sauce, either parsley, onion, or caper; or the cooked vegetables may be passed through a fine sieve and mixed with a little butter sauce made with milk and poured over the head. The broth may be flavoured with a few sticks of celery and a little parsley, as well as the cooked vegetables, and served separately. Cook the brains and tongue, put them on separate dishes, and serve. (4) Scotch Style.—Prepare and boil a Sheep's Head, as for No 3, only it will require another hour, remove the bones, lay it on a dish, and garnish it with slices of lemon anti bunches of fried parsley. Put the brains in a saucepan of salted water, and boil them witli an onion for fifteen minutes; take them out, chop them up small, mix them with 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix them up in 1 gill of butter sauce, warm them without boiling, and serve as a sauce in a boat. Boil the tongue separately with a few drops of vinegar, a clove, and a peppercorn, and serve on the same dish as the head. Fried Sheep’s Head.—Parboil a split Sheep’s Head, cut all the meat from the bone, season it, cover over the slices with a thick layer of chopped herbs, roll them up, tie them round, brush them over with yolk of egg, cover over with breadcrumbs, and fry in fat. Prepare a rich gravy with the bones, and serve both together. Sheep’s Head a la Russe.—Take all the meat off a Sheep’s Head after it has been boiled, put it on a dish, and brush it over with egg and a mixture of breadcrumbs, raspings, a little flour, dried and powdered parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place it in the Dutch oven in front of the fire, baste it with loz. of butter, and serve with a little caper sauce or good brown gravy. The broth may be used by adding a few sticks of celery, boil- ing it, skimming, and pouring it into a tureen with 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley scattered at the bottom. Sheep’s Head Cheese.—Boil a Sheep’s Head in water with salt in it and a few peppercorns till the meat separates from the bones; then cut it into small pieces, season them, and mix with them cayenne pepper, salt, chopped onion, chopped parsley, and about £lb. of ham cut up into small pieces. Take four hard-boiled eggs, cut them in slices, and put them in a well-buttered earthenware mould, over them lay the meat of the head and ham with its seasonings, put the mould in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Soak a small quantity of gelatine in some of the liquor the head was boiled in, and after soaking, dissolve it in enough of the liquor to fill the mould. Pour it over the meat as soon as it is taken from the oven, and let it stand till next day; then turn it out on to a flat dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. Sheep’s Head and Feet Broth.—Singe a Sheep’s Head and four feet, split the head into halves, remove the brains, and wash it well inside and out. Pierce the eyes, and wash the skin with the liquor that comes from them ; Sheep—continued. scrape out the eye cavities with a sharp knife, put the head with the feet into a bowl of water, add a little salt and cooking soda, and let them soak all the night or for twelve, hours. Take them out and scrape them well, put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of split peas and three-parts of a teacupful of pearl barley, pour over lgall. of water, and boil for forty-five minutes; now add half a turnip cut into slices, and the other half cut up small with a carrot, a parsnip, and cabbage. Boil for an hour longer, add one or two leeks, a few sticks of celery, and a little parsley also cut up small, and boil for another hour. Take out the head and feet, put them on a dish with the slices of turnip for a garnish, and serve the broth in a tureen. Sheep’s Head Soup.—(1) Wash and clean a Sheep’s Head and pluck; cut the lights, liver, and heart into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 4,1b. of pearl barley, a few turnips and onions, and 4qts. of water. When the water boils move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the pluck is cooked; then put in the head, and stew it gently until tender. Take the head out, strain the liquor, and when cold skim off the fat. Season the liquor to taste with salt and pepper, colour it with a little browning, add 1 small table-spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, pour it into a saucepan, and place it over the fire. Cut the meat off the head into pieces about I tin. square, and put them in the soup, with a few egg balls, some powdered sweet herbs, and 2 vine- glassfuls of sherry. When boiling again, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Clean and trim the head ready for cooking, remove the brains, and steep it for nearly an hour in cold salted water; next put the head into a saucepan with several onions, a few carrots and turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, 4oz. of pearl barley, and 3qts. of water, and put in 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns. When the liquor boils move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim it well, and let it boil very gently for about four hours. Take the head out, and strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, nibbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Leave the soup until quite cold, then skim off all the fat, and pour it into a saucepan. Cut the meat off the head, divide it into small pieces, and put them in with the soup. Warm the whole gently over the fire, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add loz. of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of flour. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot, with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (3) Wash the head well; peel and wash 311). of potatoes, and put them with the head in a saucepan over the fire in 7qts. of water, together with a stick of celery, two onions, two turnips, 1 pint of split peas, and salt and pepper to taste; boil all together for six hours, skimming frequently. Take up the head, cut all the meat off the bones, put them in another saucepan over the fire in as much of the soup as can be poured clear off the vege- tables, and boil them six hours longer, letting the meat and the thick part of the soup cool. After the bones have been boiled take them out, and add to the liquor the rest of the soup with the vegetables and meat, and warm all up together. (4) Clean a Sheep’s Head, prepare it for soup as a calf’s head, with the skin on, and split it in such a way that the tongue and brains can be taken out. Break the bone of the head, wash it thoroughly in several waters, and let it soak in salted water for half-an-bour. Put it into a soup kettle (first taking out the tongue and brains, and laying them aside to be cooked separately), cover it with cold water, and let it gradually come to a boil; then drain the water oft', and throw it away. Well wash and trim two heads of celery, scrape two carrots, peel two turnips and one onion, chop them all into small pieces, and put them into the pan with the Sheep’s Head, together with a bunch of sweet herbs and lgall. of cold water.