582 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tench.—continued. them, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Take them off when done, remove the paper, put the fish on a dish, pour over hot caper or piquant sauce, and serve. Curried Tench.—Clean off the slime from three or four Tench, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain for two or three minutes; take out, scale and gut them, chop off the fins, and cut into small pieces. Put them into a basin of cold water, and let them remain for an hour. Cut up an onion in slices, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry. Take out the pieces of fish, drain and dry them, put them in the pan with the onion, toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, so that the fish will he firm and dry, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste and 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder mixed up with a little flour. Cook for two minutes longer, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, sufficient boiling water to cover, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a few peppercorns and cloves, and a little more salt if required. Cover the pan, boil for about ten minutes, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and in two or three minutes’ time carefully take out the pieces of fish with a fork, and put them on a dish. Boil the liquor to reduce it, thicken with the yolks of two or three eggs mixed with a little cream, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire so that the sauce will cook without boil ing, add the juice of a lemon, pour it over the Tench, and serve very hot. Pried Pillets of Tench.—Clean and gut four or five Tench, cut them up into fillets, and remove the skin and all the bones; dust them over with salt, then with flour, dip them into egg beaten up with fine herbs either cooked or raw, and lastly roll them in breadcrumbs. Put them into a baking-dish with a little warmed butter, keeping the fillets as close together as possible; prat the dish in the oven, and let it remain until the fillets are well coloured on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over the liquor, if any, or baste them with more hot butter, garnish the dish with slices of lemon, and serve. Fried Tench.—(1) Scale and clean a Tench, split it down the back, taking care not to injure the belly part, lay the fish open in a flat dish, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover it, and sprinkle over a little chopped onion, a few stalks of parsley, and salt and pepper. Let it remain like this for :bout three hours, then take it out, drain, dip it in flour, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry it. Take it out, drain it, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. (2) Put a couple of Tench into a saucepan of boiling water for a few minutes, take them out when they have been in long enough for the skin to be easily raised, cut off the fins and gills, gut, and wash them well. Slit them down the back to take out the bones, dust them over with flour and salt, sprinkle over a little lemon-juice, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them for about twenty minutes, or accord- ing to their size. Take them out, drain off all the fat, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Scale and clean as many Tench as required, wash them well, slit them along the backs, lift the flesh from the bone, cut the skin at the tail and across the head, and strip off all the flesh with the skin, leaving the bones bare, and having the flesh all in one piece. Chop the flesh of one of the fish fine and mix it up with a sprig of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few chives, and two or three mushrooms, all finely minced; sprinkle in salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and powdered mace to taste, put this mixture into a mortar, pound it well, add a few bread- crumbs soaked in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a small lump of butter, and the yolk of an egg. Stuff the remain- ing fish with this forcemeat, dredge them over with flour, put them, one at a time, into a frying-pan, and fry them, keeping hot those that are cooked until the others are done. The fat that has come from them should be thrown away, and 4oz. of butter with sufficient Hour to make it thick added; brown the flour, and add first 1 breakfast- cupful of white wine and afterwards a similar quantity of Tench—continued. boiling water. Add an onion stuck with cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover the pan, and cook for about fifteen minutes on a very slow fire. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, loz. of truffles or morels boiled until tender in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, a couple of dozen oysters and their liquor, and a few mushrooms. Make this sauce hot, put in the fish until they get hot, place them carefully on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Slices of lemon should be served either as a garnish or on a small plate. Roasted Tench.—Draw the fish, remove the gills and spawn, and wash them without scaling. Prepare a sufficient quantity of stuffing with grated breadcrumb, almond paste, well- waslied currants, and finely-shred candied peel; moisten the whole with beaten yolks of eggs and cream, keeping it rather stiff, and season the mixture with salt, grated lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stuff the fish with the mixture; lay two or three sticks across a baking-dish, place the fish on them, and bake in the oven, turning when done on one side. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish. Mix with the gravy that will have dropped into the tin the strained juice of an orange, loz. of butter, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon; place it over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the fish, garnish them with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve at once. Stewed Tench.—(1) Clean and scale a Tench, put it in a saucepan with sufficient veal broth and red wine in equal parts to cover it, add a sprig of parsley and marjoram, the rind of half a lemon, and five or six peppercorns.. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil the contents up quickly, remove it to the side, and simmer slowly until the fish is done. Take the fish out carefully, place it on a dish, remove the herbs and lemon-peel from the liquor, add a small lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add a little salt or anchovy sauce. Boil this up once more, pour it over the Tench, and serve. (2) Scale, gut, and well wash two or three Tench, sprinkle them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, dripping, or beef-suet, and brown them. Place them in a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls each of port wine and water, and add 1 table- spoonful each of browning, walnut ketchup, and lemon pickle, an onion stuck with cloves, one stick of horse- radish, and a seasoning of cayenne. Set the saucepan over a slow fire, cover with the lid, and cook gently until there is only sufficient of the liquor left to cover the fish when dished. Take out the Tench, and put them on a dish ; thicken the gravy with butter and flour, boil it up once more, pour it through a sieve over the fish, and serve. (3) Clean and scale two Tench, cut them up, put them in a saucepan over a few carrots, turnips, onions, and sticks of celery all cut up in pieces and blanched ; add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, and cover with white wine. Set the saucepan on a clear fire and boil the contents for about ten minutes; remove the pan to a moderate fire, thicken the liquor with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it remain until the fish are done, /bake, them out carefully, and put them on a dish. Take out the bunch of parsley from the sauce, and add a few yolks of egg; after it is reduced, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the juice of a lemon and a little minced parsley, pour the whole over the Tench, and serve. (4) Clean and scale two or three Tench, put them into a dish with a handful of salt, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes ; then take them out and wipe on a cloth. Put into a saucepan a large onion, a stick of celery, and a carrot all chopped up, and cook them in a little oil or butter; add a clove of garlic, with the peel on and not chopped, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a few mushrooms or trimmings, three or four cloves, and pepper to taste. Place the fish on these, pour in white wine to about three-parts their height, boil for five minutes, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Take out the fish, put them on a dish, thicken the liquor with butter kneaded in flour, and boil for a few minutes.