466 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY Soles—continued. teacupful of salad oil 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and one chopped capsicum. Pour the dressing over the fish, and serve it. Fillets of Soles a l’Aurore.—Skin two pairs of Soles and fillet them. Prepare some quenelle forcemeat of whiting, and colour it with pounded lobster spawn. Spread some of the forcemeat over each fillet, and roll them up; skewer them with silver skewers, putting three fillets on each. Dust the fdlets over with pepper and salt, put them in a baking-dish, cover with slices of bacon, and bake them. When cooked, take the fillets off the skewers, trim off all the superfluous forcemeat, and place them on a hot dish. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee in a saucepan with some pounded lobster spawn and a lump of fresh butter, and stir them over the fire till hot; strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, season it with a little essence of anchovies, lemon-juice, pepper and salt, and boil it up again. Pour the sauce over the fillets of Soles, which should have been kept hot while it was being made, and serve at once. Fillets of Soles a la Bohemienne.—Skin a pair of thick Soles, and fillet them. Butter a baking-tin, fold the fillets over, put them on the tin, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. Put a small lump of butter in a saucepan with 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 teacupful of fish stock, and continue stirring till the hour is cooked. Mix with the sauce J teacupful of cream, salt, and a little cayenne pepper, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Finely chop three truffles, two hard-boiled eggs, and a few sprigs of parsley; mix them together, then add 1 table- spoonful of lobster coral that has been pounded and passed through a fine hair sieve. Put the fillets of Soles on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, then sprinkle over the egg mixture, and serve. Fillets of Sole a la Chef de Cuisine.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of a thick Sole, put them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, dust over a little pepper and salt, pour in a wineglassful of sherry, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the saute-pan in the oven and bake the fish for about ten minutes. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with | pint of water, and boil them till the liquor has reduced to one-third its original quantity. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, and prepare a little butter sauce with it. Mix with the sauce 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, the liquor in which the fillets were cooked, and loz. of butter. Stir the sauce over the fire till of the consistency of cream. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin a pair of Soles and fillet them, cutting the flesh into pieces about 2in. long. Finely grate some stale bread, and mix with it some chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Dip the fillets of Soles in beaten egg, and then roll For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soles—continued. them well in the seasoned breadcrumbs ; put them into a frying-pan with some hot fat and fry till nicely browned. Put the trimmings of the Soles and a piece of beef into a saucepan with some water and boil them for half-an-hour. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add a few drops of essence of anchovies, and a wineglassful of sherry. Put the pieces of Soles in the sauce and stir it by the side of the fire till they are hot again, but do not let it boil. Pour all on to a hot dish (see Fig. 605), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Flamande.—Trim the fillets of a pair of Soles, beat them slightly, and season with salt and pepper. Mix the roes of two or three red herrings with some raw forcemeat, and coat the fillets of Soles with it. Roll them round, fasten with skewers, and put them in a braising-pan with some butter and white wine. ’ Cook the Soles till the moisture is somewhat reduced, then move them from the fire, and leave them till cold in their cooking-stock. Prepare a salad of vegetables, put them in the centre of a dish, cut the rolls of Soles transversely into slices, arrange them in a circle round the salad, and serve. Fillets of Soles an Gratin.—(1) Clean and peel cff the dark skins of three fresh Soles, cut off the fillets, and divide them into equal sized pieces; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper. Prepare Jib. of short-paste, and roll it out on a floured table into a flat round. Lay the paste on a buttered baking-sheet, and cover it with a thick layer of whiting forcemeat. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs with a chopped onion and mushroom and a few table-spoonfuls of the same forcemeat; coat the fillets with it on one side, and double the two ends to the centre. Arrange the fillets in a circle on the paste, spread them with forcemeat, bind a strip of buttered paper round the edges, and fill the hollow with a block of crumb of bread, first covering it and the fillets with thin slices of bacon, and bake them in the oven for half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the paper, bacon, and bread, mop up the fat, and slip the flat of paste with the fish on to a hot dish. Fill the centre of the circle with some small poached quenelles made with the same kind of forcemeat, pour a little mussel sauce over the fish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of the same. (2) Detach the fillets from the bones of two Soles, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter. Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a stewpan, boil it up, then add two or three chopped mush- rooms, and a few drops each of anchovy essence and Harvey’s sauce. Boil the sauce for five minutes longer, add 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, ami stir in very quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Lay the fillets on a bed of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, sprinkle some grated breadcrumbs on the top, and brown them under a salamander. Serve while very hot. (3) Remove the fillets from the bones of the Soles, and trim them to an equal size. Prepare a whiting quenelle forcemeat, mix with it some D’Uxelles sauce, and cover the skinned side of the fillets with it. Fold the fillets in two and press them slightly to stick them together. Spread a layer of the same forcemeat upon a silver dish, fix a block of crumb of bread covered with buttered paper in the centre, put half of the fillets round the bread, making them overlap each other and sticking them together with a little forcemeat, then dress the remaining fillets round on these, only reversing the order of them; put a sheet of buttered paper over the fillets, and bake them in the oven. When the fillets are cooked, remove the bread and paper, pour some Italian sauce over them, and serve. (4) Separate the fillets from the bones of a large Sole; rub a gratin-dish over with garlic, butter it thickly, and lay tbe fillets of Sole in it. Strew over them a few mushrooms, one shallot, and a small quantity of parsley, also finely-chopped; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, and moisten to height with white wine. Cover the whole with a layer of Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads.