THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 544 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Sultanes—continued. slender column of cake, or biscuits fastened together, and iced over with a coloured icing that shows up the open- work column of the Sultane. Ornamented biscuits, bon-bons, and crystallised fruits form excellent garnishes for Sultanes. SUMMER SALAD.—See Salads. SUMMER SOUP.—See Soups. SUNDAY PUDDING—See Puddings. SUNSHINE CAKE.—See Cakes. SUPPERS {Fr. Soupes; Ger. Abendessen).—The German abend-essen, signifying evening-meal, much defined the class of feeding times to which our word “ Supper ” refers. The English term seems to infer that the last meal of the day was, in some way or another, associated with drinking, and such has been doubtless the case, those who partook of it frequently spending some time afterwards in Bacchanalian indulgences. But there are other forms of Supper known to us, such as might be provided for the refreshment of dancers (see Balls), and others, all having the same characteristics in their way. Considered generally, Suppers should be light, whole- some, and attractive; and given these qualities little further remains to be said. Fish, meat, game, poultry, made-up dishes of almost any kind, are all available, winding up with the inevitable cheese, and probably celery or salad. Opinions concerning dishes suitable for Suppers differ so much that it may be roughly stated that there is no limitation. SUPREME SAUCE (a la Supreme).—See Sauces. BURN.—A kind of sweet palm wine made in the Antilles. SWARTZAIN.—This is a famous Dutch dish pre- pared as follows: Carefully save the blood running from a fowl or duck in its slaughtering, and stir it with a little vinegar and salt until it is quite cold. Cut up the bird, and season and stew it in a little water. When partly cooked, add the blood, and stir it into the water to make a gravy. The giblets added also make it very nice. SWEDES.—See Turnips. SWEDISH ROLLS.—See Bread. SWEDISH SALAD.—-See Salads. SWEETS.—-See Sugar. SWEETBREADS {Fr. Ris de Yean, or d’agneau; Ger. Broschen).—There are two kinds of Sweetbreads, known respectively as throat Sweetbread and ordi- nary or heart Sweetbread, the former being a large Sweetbreads—continued. gland (thymus) situated round and along the windpipe, and the latter (see Fig. 721) is anatomically the pancreas. Either may be used in the following receipts, but the throat Sweetbread is reckoned the more dainty, and the Sweetbread of calves and lambs are best of all. Before using, the Sweetbread should be trimmed, and all fibrous skin removed. It should then be steeped in a basin of cold water and parboiled or blanched as follows: Clean and neatly trim some Sweetbreads. Soak them for three hours in three different fresh waters, one hour in each, with 1 pinch of salt in each water. Drain, place them in a pan of cold water, and cook until the water comes to the boil. Then drain and freshen them in cold water. Cover with a napkin, lay them aside in a cool place, and they will be ready for general use. When they are to be used in moulds, they should be gently pressed down with a weight. Attelettes of Sweetbreads a, l’ltalienne.—(1) Blanch some Sweetbreads, then stew them in a well-seasoned broth made from meat and vegetables. When nicely done, take them from the pan and let them cool. Make a sauce of 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped mushrooms, shallots, and parsley, fried in a little butter, then dredge a little Hour into the pan and mix it with the fried mush- rooms, &c. ; moisten with some good stock, add a little seasoning of pepper and salt, boil it till it thickens, stir- ring constantly, take it from the fire, and add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir them well in. When the Sweetbreads are quite cold, cut them into pieces of about lin. square; take also some cooked calf’s udder and cut it into pieces of the same size, dipj all these pieces in the sauce, and then thread them on a silver skewer (attelette). Moisten them with the sauce, cover with sifted bread- crumbs, then dip them into well-beaten yolks of eggs and again cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, pressing them smooth with a knife and fry in butter to a nice golden brown. Serve Italian sauce with them. (2) Soak some Sweetbreads in water to disgorge the blood, then blanch them till quite firm. Butter a stewpan, put in a layer of finely-sliced carrots and onions, and a layer of fat bacon; put in the Sweetbreads, season them with salt and pepper, place the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and cook over a very slow fire. When cooked, Fig. 722. Attelettes of Sweetbreads (No. 2). drain the Sweetbreads and leave them till cold, then cut them into lin. squares. Dip the squares into reduced German sauce, and leave them till the sauce cools on them ; put the squares alternately with round pieces of cooked calf’s udder on silver skewers (see Fig. 722). Mask them again with the sauce, and cover with breadcrumbs ; dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them again, and smooth over the surface with the blade of a knife. But a lump of putter in a frying-pan, melt it, then sprinkle in some breadcrumbs; put in the Sweetbreads and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Put the attelettes on a hot dish, cover them with either brown or white Italian sauce, and serve. Attereaux of Sweetbreads.—Boil two large Sweetbreads until done ; let them cool, and divide them into slices. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and range them round the bottom of a sautd-pan in which some butter has been spread. Fry over a sharp fire; take them out and set them on a slab to cool, with a light weight on them to make them flat. M hen these slices are quite cold, cut them round with a cutter, and put them into a basin with an equal quantity of similar rounds of boiled tongue and mushrooms, all cut with the same cutter, so as to be exactly the same size as the rounds of Sweet- bread. Pour over them in the basin a little reduced brown