501 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Spinach—continued. browned on both sides. Drain the pieces of bread, spread the ham mixture over them, place them on a hot dish, pour the Spinach over, and serve while very hot. Spinach a la Mode.—Blanch 1 peck of Spinach, cutting off the stalks and well washing it ; chop it up, and put it into a saucepan with loz. of butter and J pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir with a wooden spoon, and cook for live minutes, adding loz. of butter kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and A pint of milk. Stir frequently, and cook for ten minutes; then serve, garnished with six sippets of bread fried in butter. Spinach Consomme.—Pick the Spinach, wash it in plenty of water, put it into a saucepan full of boiling water with a lump of salt, and press it down constantly till cooked. Drain through a colander, then throw it into a tub of cold water to preserve its green colour. When cold press out all the moisture from the Spinach and chop it. Place a lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the Spinach, and stir it over the lire till the moisture lias evaporated; then sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 1 teacupful of broth, and boil quickly to prevent its turning yellow. A little glaze may be mixed with the Spinach and grated nutmeg if desired. Serve while very hot. Spinach Cream.—Put the yolks of nine eggs into a lined saucepan with 8oz. of moist sugar, and beat them well; then add 1 pint each of cream and milk and a stick of cinnamon, and beat till well mixed; pour in 1 tea- cupful of Spinach-juice, stand the saucepan over a clear fire, and stir the mixture one way till very thick. Put some quarters of preserved oranges in a glass dish, and pour the cream over them when it has cooled a little. Stand the disli containing the cream on ice till it is cold, when it will be ready for serving. Spinach with Cream.—Pick and thoroughly wash the Spinach, and boil it in plenty of boiling salted water. When tender, drain it, and put it into cold water for a few minutes. Press all the moisture out of the Spinach, then put it into a saucepan with a little butter, and stir it over a slow fire till dry. Dredge a little flour over the Spinach, pour in J pint of boiling cream, and season with a little grated nutmeg, sugar, and salt. Turn it into a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Spinach Croquettes.—Carefully look over the Spinach and remove all the dead leaves; wash it well, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for five minutes. Drain it, refresh it in cold water, place it in a colander, put a plate over the top, press it well to extract as much of the water as possible, and chop it fine. Put a large lump of butter into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire; when melted, put in the Spinach, season to taste with salt and pepper, and toss it about for a few minutes. Dredge lightly with flour, popr in about 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it until reduced to a thick paste; then move it to the edge of the fire, mix in 2 table-spoon- fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, Jib. of butter broken into small bits, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and lastly the well-whipped whites of two. Stir and mix well. Half fill a shallow baking-dish with hot clarified butter, and Fig. 637. Spinach Croquettes. with a table-spoon drop in small quantities of the above mixture, and put it into a brisk oven. When firm cut the croquettes out with a round tin cutter, and turn them over to brown on the other side. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemon and tufts of fried parsley (see Pig. 637), and serve. Spinach— continued. Spinach Croustades.—Cut some heart-shaped bread crous- tades, fry them till nicely browned, and then scoop out the crumb from the middle. Prepare some Spinach as for Spinach with Cream, and when ready fill the croustades with it. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Spinach Custard.—Wash lib. of freshly-picked Spinach in several waters, and blanch it in boiling salted water for five or six minutes. Drain the Spinach, press out all the moisture, chop it, and put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter. Dredge in a little flour, and stir the whole over the fire for three or four minutes. Mix with the Spinach a teacupful of grated breadcrumbs, and suffi- cient cream to make it a nice consistency; stir the mixture over the fire, and boil it for a few minutes; season to taste with sugar, take it oft' the fire, and when a little cooled add the beaten yolks of seven eggs and the whites of three. Butter a timbale-mould, and pour the above mixture into it; stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the custard out on to a fancy dish, pour a little sweet sauce over it, and serve. Spinach and Eggs.—Pick the Spinach over carefully, wash it in several waters, and then let it soak in cold water for a few minutes. Put the Spinach into a sauce- panful of boiling water with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda or ammonia to preserve its green colour, and boil for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the Spinach in a colander, mix a little butter, salt, and pepper with it, and then chop it up. Chop some hard-boiled eggs, anil mix them with the Spinach. Put the mixture in a sauce- pan and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again; turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Spinach Fritters.—Thoroughly wash the Spinach in plenty of water, pick it carefully over to remove any dead leaves, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. When ready, refresh the Spinach in cold water and drain it thoroughly. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the Spinach, first chopping it, with a moderate quantity of finely-chopped marjoram, the chopped peel of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Pour in A pint of milk, and stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until somewhat thickly reduced; then move it to the side, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. When sufficiently thickened, turn the mixture on to a dish and leave it until cold. Prepare a good frying-batter. When the mixture is cold, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, which mould to an egg shape. Put a large lump of lard or dripping into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Dip the fritters in the batter, coating them well with it, then put them in the boiling fat, and fry them a bright crisp brown. Take each fritter out of the fat as it is done, and drain it, either on a fine sieve or a sheet of paper, in front of the fire. When all are cooked, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Spinach in German Style.—Wash the required quantity of Spinach in several waters to thoroughly remove all the grit, then drain it, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for eight or ten minutes; refresh it in cold water, drain it, press it tightly to squeeze out as much of the water as possible, and chop it fine. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with about 1 teacupful of grated bread- crumb and one finely-minced onion, stir them over the fire until hot, then put in the Spinach and make it hot again. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 638), and serve. Spinach-green for Colouring.—(1) Well wash Jib. of Spinach, remove all the stalks, and put it into a porcelain- lined saucepan, with J teaspoonful of salt and A teacup- ful of water, and boil for ten minutes with the cover on the pan. Squeeze out as much of the liquor as possible, and bottle for future use. (2) Wash lib. of Spinach, remove all the stalks, dry it slightly, and mince it very fine; bruise it in a mortar,