508 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Sprats—continued. can be easily removed from the bones. Pick the flesh carefully off, pound it, and season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Mix an equal quantity of breadcrumbs* with the pounded fish, and bind it with beaten eggs. Shape the mixture into small equal proportions, flatten them, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned on both sides, drain the rissoles, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. These may lie egg-and-bread-crumbed pre- vious to frying, if desired. Sprat Toasts.—(1) Chop off the heads and tails of the Sprats, wash them, take out the bones, dry, and chop them up. Put the fish in a shallow baking-dish with a few cleaned and chopped anchovies, and bake them in a quick oven for a fei\- minutes. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick off a tin loaf, or the bottom of a household loaf, toast them, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. Drain the oil off the fish, put a small quantity on each piece of toast, arrange them on the dish, and garnish with cut- lemon and fried parsley (see Fig. 052). (2) Clean and remove the tails from some fresh Sprats, scald them until somewhat tender, then separate the flesh from the bones. Wash and bone three or four anchovies, put them in a mortar with the fish, season with pepper and a small quantity of cayenne, and pound them until smooth. Moisten the fish paste with a small quantity of vinegar, put- it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire until hot. Cut some slices off a tin loaf about £in. in thickness, trim off the crusts, toast them, and butter them slightly while hot. Spread each piece of toast with the fish mixture, and cut them into fingers. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of toast on it, putting here and there a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Sprats. -Wash the Sprats, dry them thoroughly, and lay them evenly in layers in a stewpan; between the layers put in three peppercorns, the same quantity of all- spice, and a very little salt; pour over them only just sufficient vinegar to cover them, and put them over a slow fire. A bay-leaf may be added with the vinegar. Let them simmer for one hour; they should not boil. SPRING SOUP.—See Soup. SPRING WATER—See Water. SPROUTS.—Young shoots springing from the leaf axils of the stalks or stems of some varieties of the cabbage tribe. Those best known under this name will be now described under Brussels Sprouts. SPRUCE.—Another and more common name for this is Black Beer. It is a beverage prepared from a decoction of the leaves and branches of the Spruce fir, mixed with treacle or molasses, and fermented with yeast. The variety called Dantzic Spruce is considered the best, but some very good Spruce is manufactured in this country. Mum is a variety of Spruce made chiefly in Germany. It can be manufactured as follows: Spruce Beer.—(1) The essence of Spruce for making this is obtained by boiling in water the tops of the young shoots, and most especially the young cones of the Spruce fir-tree, and then subjecting the liquor to evaporation until it has the consistence of treacle. Dissolve 7 lb. of loaf sugar in 4Agalls. Spruce—continued. of boiling water, and when the temperature falls to lOOdeg. Fahr. mix in 4oz. of the essence, mixing well to make them all amalgamate. Add | pint of fresh yeast, and let the liquor ferment, which will soon commence in summer and must be assisted by artificial heat in winter; when the fermentation is nearly complete the liquor must lie drawn off and the cask cleaned before it is returned. A second fermentation will take place but will soon subside, and the beer should then be bottled, corked, wired, or strung and placed on their sides in the cellar. As soon as a sufficient amount of pressure is assumed to be present, a bottle should be opened and all the remainder stood upon their bottoms and used as soon as possible. (2) Put 4galls. of cold water into a barrel with its head taken out; pour in 4galls. more boiling water, and mix well; add 2qts. of molasses, or sufficient to sweeten to taste, and 1 wineglassful of the essence of Spruce, stirring them well together for several minutes. When about blood-warm, add 1 pint of yeast-, the whole being well stirred together again. Cover the barrel with the head, leave the beer to work, and in two days it will be fit to bottle. By packing the bottles away in sand in a cellar, or a cool place, they will be kept from bursting, and in two or three days the beer will be ripe for drinking. White Spruce.—Mix together 31b. of loaf sugar, 5galls. of water, enough of essence of Spruce to give it a flavour, a teacupful of good yeast, and a little lemon-peel. When fermented, bottle it up close. It- is a delightful beverage in warm weather. SPUN SUGAR.—See Sugar-Boiling. SQUABS. —This name is given generally to the nest- lings of pigeons, or other birds of a similar character. As they admit of special culinary treatment the following receipts are appended: Broiled Squabs.—Singe and pluck a couple of Squabs, cut off the feet and the head, and wipe them with a wet cloth. Butter a double gridiron, lay the birds between the bars, and brown them quickly on both sides over a clear sharp fire. Shake a little pepper and salt over them, put them on a dish, lay slices of orange round, and serve. Broiled Squabs on Toast with Bacon.—Singe, draw, cut the necks off, and wipe three good sized Squabs; split them without detaching them, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, h pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil; roll them in well, and broil them for six minutes on each side. Prepare a dish with six toasts, arrange the Squabs over, and spread 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter on top. Decorate the dish with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Compote of Squabs.—Singe, draw, and trass with their legs thrust inside, six fine, fat Squabs: lay them in a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, an onion and a carrot both chopped. Season with 1 pinch of salt, put the lid on the pan, and cook on a good fire for ten minutes. Put in a sauce- pan six small glazed onions, one medium-sized carrot cut with a vegetable-scoop (blanching the latter for two minutes), loz. of salt pork cut into small pieces, and six cut-up mush- rooms; moisten them with 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and cook together for thirty minutes. Transfer the Squabs to this mixture, and cook again for five minutes; dress the garnishing on a hot dish, arrange the Squabs on top, and serve. Roasted Boned Squabs.—When the Squabs are carefully plucked, cut off the head, wings, and legs, near the body, cut through the skin down the middle of the back, and then, keeping the knife pressed flat against the carcase of the bird, cut the flesh away from it until the joints of the wings and legs are reached; unjoint these, and continue cutting until the ridge of the breast bone is reached: it is here that there is most danger of cutting or tearing the skin, so that great care must be exercised to prevent it. When the entire flesh has been freed from the carcase, lay it skin down on the table, take out the wing and leg bones from the inside, and replace the carcase with any