TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 488 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. half-an-hour, then season it with a little Harvey’s sauce, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. (5) Cut a quarter of a medium-sized raw chicken into pieces, and chop up half a green pepper, £oz. of lean raw ham, and half an onion. Brown the whole for five minutes in a saucepan with a little butter, moisten with lqt. of white broth, add J pint of finely-cut vegetables, 1 tea- spoonful of curry, half a green apple cut into small pieces, one slice of egg-plant cut into small pieces, and 1 table- spoonful of uncooked rice. Season with l table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, boil for twenty-five minutes, and serve. At Delmonico’s, in New York, twice the quantity of rice is used, and to the above quantity of Soup twelve large oysters would be added. (6) Take Gib. of knuckle of veal, put it over the fire in sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it simmer gently till about half done; then take it up, remove the liquor from the fire, and pour it into a basin to cool. Cut the veal into slices, and put them away also. Next day take the fat off the soup, trim off any fat there may be on the meat, and fry the meat in a little butter. But the Soup in a saucepan over the fire, then put the meat in, together with a small quantity of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and four onions sliced and fried brown, and let all simmer very gently for two hours. If at the end of an hour-and-a-half the Soup does not seem thick enough, add a thickening of flour and butter. Serve boiled rice with this Soup in a separate dish. (7) Take 31b. or 41b. of knuckle of veal, 41b. of beef, 21b. of ham, and Hlb. of scrag of mutton. Chop the bones and cut the meat small, put it all in a saucepan over the fire, pour in 4qts. of cold water, add 1 dessert-spoonful of salt, and let the meat boil gently till the liquor is reduced to 2qts.; then add eight scraped and washed carrots, four peeled and washed turnips, and two onions, and let it stew till the vegetables are tender. Strain it and let it cool. When quite cold, skim off the fat, put the Soup in the saucepan again, and boil three or four sticks of celery in it. Next rub it through a sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and put it again over the fire; add to it 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve rice boiled as for curry in a separate dish. (8) Have some good stock ready made of the bones of roasted beef, mutton, and fowls. Put into the soup-kettle eight large peeled and sliced onions, 2qts. of scraped, washed, and chopped-up carrots, 3qts. of peeled and sliced turnips, and 6oz. of butter, and let them stew till tender. Strain the stock, and pour 3qts. of it, or 1 pint of good beef gravy and 5 pints of the stock, over the stewed vege- tables in the soup-kettle, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and either a large slice of crumb of bread or else some rice, either whole or ground, and let all this boil gently for five hours. Strain it through a tammy-cloth, squeezing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. If the Soup be too thick to be forced through the cloth, mix some more strained stock or gravy with it. Cut a fowl into pieces, and brown them in butter in a frying- pan ; then add them to the Soup, let it boil for a short time, and then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer while the fat is skimmed off. (9) Put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, then put in a knuckle of veal cut into pieces, six apples, a turnip, carrot, two or three onions, and h pint of water. Glaze the above ingredients over a quick fire, turning them frequently; then sift in 3 table-spoonfuls of curry that has been mixed with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour and 1 table-spoonful of curry paste. When quite smooth, fill the stewpan with water, add a lump of sugar and salt to taste, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for two hours, removing all the scum that lises to the top. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of boiled rice. (10) Peel and slice an onion, put it into a stewpan with Jib. of butter, and fry it until crisp; then take it out, and stir in with the butter 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, 1 table-spoonful of ground onion, and b teaspoonful of finely - Sonps—continued. chopped clove of garlic. Sprinkle a few drops of water over the ingredients, and fry them well. Cut a young fowl into several pieces, put them in with the curry, &c., and fry them until browned ; next add the fried onion, and pour in 2qts. of beef stock. Put the lid on the stew- pan, and keep the contents simmering gently at the side of the fire until the fowl is tender. When cooked, pour the Soup and fowl into a soup-tureen that has been warmed, and serve it while very hot with a dish of plain boiled rice. Musketeer’s Soup (a la Mousquetaire).—Put a neck of mutton into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it for three hours. Put 1 pint of peas into another saucepan with a few sorrel-leaves and 1 pint of beef stock, and boil them till cooked. Mix the peas and stock with the soup, glaze the neck of mutton as for fricandeau, and serve it in the Soup. Neapolitan Soup (a la Napolitaine).—Cut into pieces a quarter of a raw chicken, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, loz. of lean raw ham, half a green pepper, half a sliced onion, and one sliced carrot, and steam for ten minutes; then moisten with 3 pints of white broth, season with | table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add 1 table-spoonful of raw rice. Let it sim- mer until half cooked (about fifteen minutes), then throw in loz. of pieces of macaroni and half a tomato. Boil again for ten minutes, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese separately. Palestine Soup (a la Palestine).—(1) Put 2qts. of white stock into a saucepan with 2Jlb. of Jerusalem artichokes, four or five onions, and a stick of celery, all nicely prepared, and a lump of sugar. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the vegetables are quite tender. Pass the Soup and vege- tables through a fine hair sieve, return them to the sauce- pan again, and mix with them b pint of cream and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the Soup over the fire for a-quarterofan-hour, season with cayenne pepper and salt, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. (2) Peel and wash 2lb. of Jerusalem artichokes, and put them into a saucepan with four large sliced potatoes, two chopped onions, and 2qts. of broth. Boil the above vege- tables till tender, then pass all through a fine hair sieve; return the puree to the saucepan, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, anil stir it over the fire till very hot. Add h pint of cream, taking care not to let the Soup boil after- wards. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread. Parisian Soup (a la Parisienne).—Cut four leeks into strips, fry them in a little butter at the bottom of a stew- pan, pour over them lqt. of well-seasoned mutton stock, add six or eight boiled potatoes cut into slices, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil all together till the leeks are thoroughly done. Fry a few crusts of bread, put them in the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Pasha Soup.—Put into a stewpan half a leg of mutton, a knuckle of veal, and the bones and trimmings of a chicken ; pour in plenty of water, and boil the meat till tender. When cooked, strain the liquor off the meat, and put 2qts. of it into another stewpan. Mix 1 teacupful of ground rice to a smooth paste, put in the Soup, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then move the stewpan to the side. Chop and mix together an equal quantity of bacon, ham, and mutton, season them with salt, pepper, and 1 pinch of parsley, and add 5oz. of blanched rice. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, wrap each one up in a tender blanched cabbage-leaf, truss them, and lay them side by side in a flat stewpan; cover with fat broth, put the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and braise the contents over a moderate fire. Skim the fat ofl the Soup, mix with it a piece of butter that has been worked with a little curry powder, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Drain the “dolmas” in the cabbage-leaves, untie them, put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve it.