454 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, iCc., referred to. see under their special heads. Skate—continued. (4) Small.—Put the Skates in a basin with some slices of onion, a bunch of parsley, a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper; cover them with vinegar, and leave them to pickle for an hour. Drain the Skates from the pickle, dip them in frying-batter, then in dry flour, and fry them in hot lard. Drain the fish when nicely browned, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried paisley, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of any kind of sauce preferred. Skate a l’ltalienne.—Prepare the Skate and put it into a saucepan with a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, one or two sprigs of thyme, two cloves, pepper, salt, and a small lump of butter; dredge in a little flour and cover the fish with milk. Boil gently until the Skate is cooked, then take it out and drain. Put in with the cooking- stock a few boiled button-onions, and boil it quickly for a few minutes. Sprinkle some grated cheese at the bottom of a deep dish, put the Skate on it, place the onions and some fried sippets of bread round it, and strain the sauce over ; cover the top with grated cheese, and bake it for about fifteen minutes in a quick oven. When ready, serve the Skate in the same dish. Skate a la Maitre d’Hotel.—When cleaned put the Skate in boiling salted water and boil it till cooked. Turn 3 tea- cupfuls of white sauce into a small saucepan, and when boiling mix with it Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter, and stir it till the butter lias dissolved. Drain the fish, put it on to a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over it, and serve. Skate ala Russe.—Skin a large Skate, cut it into strips about 24 in. wide, roll and tie them up, put them into a sauce- pan of fish stock slightly salted, and cook them. When done, remove the pan from the fire, and in two or three minutes’ time take out the fish; put them on a dish, arrange a few chopped cooked vegetables round them, and serve with tartar sauce. Skate a la Ste. Meneliould.—Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, then add two or three slices of onion, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little parsley, 1 saltspoonful of mixed spice, and 1 pint of milk. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till on the point of boiling, then put in the Skate, which should have been prepared and cut into slices, and let it simmer gently till cooked. When tender, drain the Skate, dip each slice into warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. Put some remoulade sauce on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of fish on it, and serve. Skate Salad.—Cut the fish into moderate-sized pieces, wash it well in plenty of water, then put it in a basin with salted water to cover, and let it steep all night. On the fol- lowing day boil the fish slowly till tender, then drain it, peel off the skin, and break the flesh into small pieces. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with oil and vinegar in equal quantities, and let it macerate for an hour or two. Wash a nice white head of celery, cut it into small pieces, and put them in a salad-bowl. Drain the fish, put it in with the celery, and pour over it a remoulade dressing. Garnish the salad with picked shrimps, hard-boiled eggs sliced or in quarters, and spiced oysters, and serve the salad without delay. Skate Soup.—Put 31b. or 41b. of Skate into a saucepan, pour over it 2qts. of fish stock, and let it simmer gently till the fish breaks. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in it loz. of vermicelli, boil for fifteen minutes, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with \ pint of cream, mix them with the soup, and stir it till thick. Put some slices of hot roll in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. Stewed Skate.—(1) Skin a Skate and cut it into square pieces. Boil the skin and trimmings in 3 pints of water with an onion and some pepper and salt. When these are sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor and add to it some finely-chopped chives and parsley and ioz. of butter with nearly 1 table-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, and let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes till it thickens, stirring con- Skate— continued. stantly. Five minutes before serving add 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup, vinegar, and Harvey’s sauce. Fry the pieces of Skate in butter till they are nicely browned, and add them also to the sauce five minutes before serving. (2) Wash a piece of Skate, put it into a stewpan with two or three slices of onion, a bunch of parsley, a small lump of salt, 1 teacupful of vinegar, and cover with water. When boiling, move the saucepan containing the fish to the side of the fire and let it simmer for ten minutes. Put the liver of the Skate into a saucepan with a little of the cook- ing-liquor of the Skate, and boil it for five minutes. Drain the liver of the Skate. Drain the Skate, trim and remove all the skin, put it on a hot dish with the liver, dust over a little pepper and salt, pour 1 pint of brown sauce over, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Skate with Caper Sauce.—Wash and clean a Skate, put it in a saucepan with one sliced onion, a bunch of green onions, two bay-leaves, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; cover the fish with water, add a little vinegar, season with pepper and salt, and stew it gently till tender. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, cover with caper sauce, and serve. Stewed Skate with Tomatoes.—Wash the Skate, dredge flour over it, and fry in boiling fat till lightly browned. Put the fried Skate into a stewpan; fry a thinly-sliced onion and some tomatoes in the same fat, then put them in the stewpan over the Skate, pour in a little water, and season with salt and pepper. When cooked, put the Skate on a hot dish, thicken the liquor with a little flour, pour it over the Skate, and serve. Skate’s Liver.—This is too often the perquisite of the fishmonger, who adds it to the liver of the cod for other purposes, unless the purchaser of the fish demands a portion of him. They make a good sauce for Skate, or a nice dish by themselves. Skate's Livers in Croustades.—Put the livers of two or three Skates into a basin of cold water and steep them for an hour or two. When ready, put the livers into a stewpan with a finely-chopped onion, two or three sprigs of parsley, and a little salt; cover the livers with water and a little vinegar, and place them over the fire till boiling. Kemove the livers from the fire, and leave them in their cooking stock till cold. Put two or three chopped onions and shallots into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and fry them; pour in 1 breakfast cupful of veloutd sauce and 4 breakfast-cupful of white wine. BoiJ the sauce till slightly thickened, then mix with it, 4 teacupful of chopped capers, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the same quantity of chopped tarragon, a small pat of anchovy butter, and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Put the pieces of liver in the sauce and keep the stewpan in a bain-marie. Cut some slices of bread 4in. thick and trim them into oval-shaped pieces. Make a circular incision with the point of a knife on one side only of the pieces of bread, fry them in butter till of a light golden colour, then drain and hollow them out on the marked sides. Fill the croustades with the liver mixture, bringing it to a dome, and smooth it over with the blade of a knife. Cover the tops of the croustade with grated breadcrumb, baste each with a little warmed butter, and brown them under a salamander. Arrange the croustade on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Skate-Liver Sauce—Boil the-liver of a Skate in strong salted water till quite firm, then cut it into small pieces; put it into a saucepan with 4 pint of butter sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a dash of vinegar, boil quickly, and serve very hot. SXEEL.-Tlie name given in certain parts of Eng- land and Scotland to a shallow wooden vessel used for holding milk. SKEWERS—The origin of this word is in doubt, although its original use suggests the idea of secure;