613 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Treacle—continued. teaspoonful eacli of baking-powder and ground ginger, and a very little salt. When these are thoroughly in 01 porated, cover the basin with a sheet of buttered paper, put it into a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and continue to steam for three hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Put lOoz. of sifted flour into a basin, work in 8oz. of shred beef-suet, and make the whole into a stiff paste by adding 1 teacupful of water. Turn the paste on to a well floured table or board, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Butter the inside of a pudding-basin, selecting one that will hold 1J pints, line it with a part of the paste, and cut the remainder into rounds to fit one on top of the other. When put in the basin, mask the paste lining with Treacle, and put the top round at the bottom; mask this again with Treacle, and continue in this way until the dish is full, securing the top round to the sides. Cover over with a cloth, put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, or in a steamer over the Fig. 820. Treacle Pudding. saucepan, and cook for an-houv-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, pour over Jib. of boiling Treacle (see Fig. 820), and serve. Half a pound of Treacle will be quite sufficient for the inside. (3) Mix with lib. of flour 4oz. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 scant teaspoonful of ginger, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Stir in 1 teacupful of Treacle, with sufficient milk to bring it to the proper consistency. Butter thickly a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake it. Serve the pudding while hot. (4) Trim off the skin and finely chop Jib. of beef-suet, and mix it with fib. of Hour, the chopped peel of half a small lemon, 1 teacupful of Treacle, and a small quantity of ground ginger. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in a small quantity of warmed milk, and stir it in with the above ingredients, mixing them well. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the pudding into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes diminished. When ready, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. (5) Pour about 1 teacupful of boiling milk over lib. of flour, and beat it well with a wooden spoon ; then mix in Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet and lib. of Treacle. A small quantity of grated nutmeg or powdered ginger may be added if liked. When the ingredients are well mixed, turn the whole into a buttered pudding-basin, cover with a floured cloth, tying it tightly round, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Ten minutes before the pudding is taken up, prepare the follow- ing sauce for it: Beat the yolks of two eggs with 4 pint of milk, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, and sweeten to taste with moist sugar ; pour it into a small lined saucepan, stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, and then take it off at once. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with the sauce, either poured over it or in a sauceboat. (6) Grate sufficient crumb of stale bread to fill two break- fast-cups, and mix with it Jib., of finely-chopped beef- suet, 1 heaped table-spoonful of powdered ginger, and J breakfast-cupful of Treacle, and beat well together. Turn the mixture into a buttered pudding-basin, tie a floured Treacle—continued. cloth over it, and boil it for two hours, keeping the basin well under water. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. Treacle Tart.—Prepare a nice dripping crust, using a small quantity of baking-powder when mixing it. Butter a rather shallow tin, line it with the crust, strew in a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs mixed with finely-chopped lemon-peel, and then pour in as much Treacle as the crumbs will soak up. Grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When the crust is done, take the tart out of the oven, and serve. Treacle Tartlets.—Half fill with breadcrumbs some tartlet pans lined with puff paste, and add a little grated ginger and a small quantity of chopped orange- or lemon-peel ; pour over sufficient Treacle—using golden syrup—to cover ; put the pans in a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when done, turn them out on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. TREFANY.—The Chinese name for the Beache- de-Mer. TRIFLES.—These are exceptionally English dishes, and are held in very poor esteem by the foreign pastry- cook, who probably attaches some greater importance to the name than is necessary. Webster connects the word with the French truffle or truffle, signifying anything of little note or importance. From the following receipts it will be seen that these Trifles are not by any means unim- portant as dishes. (1) Blanch 2oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds or peach-kernels, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding a little rose-water to keep them from oiling. Take four small sponge cakes and eight macaroons, break them all into small pieces, mix them with the pounded almonds, and lay them at the bottom of a large trifle-dish; add to them the strained juice and grated peel of two lemons, and some grated nutmeg; mix together J pint of white wine and J gill of brandy, and pour it over them. Let this stand till the cakes are thoroughly soaked and almost melted in the liquor, and then stir it a little. Dis- solve Jib. of powdered white sugar in lqt. of cream, mix in it 1 glassful of noyau, and beat it all to froth with an egg- whisk. Turn a sieve upside-down on a large dish, and as the froth forms on the cream lift it off carefully and lay it on the sieve, pouring back into the cream that is being whisked any cream that drains from the froth. When all the cream is beaten to froth, put it away in a cool place. Have ready a rich baked custard of yolks of eggs, sugar and milk, and when this is quite cold, pour about 1 pint Fig. 821. Trifle. of it into the trifle-bowl on top of the soaked cakes. The last thing before setting the trifle on the table, add the frothed cream, piling it high (see Fig. 821). Ornament it with nonpareils. _ (2). Lay in the bottom of a trifle-dish some Naples biscuits and small macaroons ; pour over them sufficient white wine mixed with 1 table-spoonful of brandy to soften them; lay patches of raspberry jam over them, and fill the dish with a rich custard. Whip up a syllabub of some cream, lay the froth on a sieve to drain for a few minutes, then pile it high over the custard, and lay comfits here and there on top.