576 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea—continued. obtaining the best Tea, and making drink thereof, very many Noblemen, Physicians, Merchants, and Gentlemen of quality have ever since sent to him for the said Leaf, and daily resort to his house to drink thereof. He sells Tea from 16s. to 50s. a pound.” In “Rugge’s Diurnal” (1659) it is reported that “Coffee, Chocolate, and a kind of drink called Tea, is sold in almost every street ”; and in 1660 it is further reported that Charles II. imposed a tax upon it of 8d. for every gallon of “chocolate, sherbert, or Tea,” whilst upon “coffee and spirits ” the impost amounted to 4d. per gallon only. The famous Pepys, in his “ Diary,” writes of Tea in 1661, “ Did send for a cup of Tea (a Chinese drink), of which I never had drunk before ”; but he makes no further mention of Tea-drinking until 1667, when he records that upon returning home one day “There find my wife making of Tea, a drink which Mr. Pelling, the poticary, tells her is good for a cold.” Since the days of Pepys, Teas have been cultivated and imported from other parts of the world, notably India and Ceylon, hence, as a beverage, it loses individuality; but of Teas that are specially Chinese, there are a few kinds that deserve mention. Brick Tea is a Tea that is largely exported, principally to Siberia, Tartary, and Russia, whence it is conveyed on the backs of camels, being compressed into slabs or cakes for the purpose of facilitating its transport. It is used by rubbing the “ brick ” into a fine powder, and boiling it with alkaline steppewater, to which salt and fat have been added, the decoction being carefully decanted. Of this liquid, the wandering tribes drink from twenty to forty cups per day, mixing it first with milk, butter, and a little roasted meal. It is generally prepared according to the following process : The Tea being covered with boiling water, a ladle of ghee (Indian butter) is put in, and 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of salt added; then follows much stir- ring and mixing with a cliurning-stick, until it becomes smooth, oily, and of an untempting chocolate-brown colour. Lie Tea is made from the sweepings of the Chinese Tea-packing houses, and may consist of a variety of dust and dirt besides damaged leaves. This conglomeration is cemented together with strong rice-water, rolled into grains or small balls, dried, and sold. China Loulca is the name given to first-class green Teas, which are exceedingly expensive, and find a ready sale amongst the wealthy merchants of Bokhara. Caper, Pekoe, and Souchong, are also familiar names, but these are applied to other Teas, and are therefore common property. Several curious Teas are made up in China in the shape of balls, faggots, and cigars, under the name of Cumshaw Tea, but they are intended only as presents, or fancy goods, just as figures are made with chocolate. Physic, or medicinal Teas, are very Common in China, all being, more or less, blendings of medicinal herbs with Tea. For some years past the greatest interest has been taken in Tea growing, owing to many of our Anglo-Indian land proprietors planting gardens for its growth, and our supplies of Tea from Assam, India, and Ceylon, are rapidly rivalling the cultivation which belonged previously to China as a monopoly. Europeans have an extraordi- nary aptitude for reducing art down to set rules for its safe conduct, and thus have they formed rules for the growing and manufacturing of Tea, adopting the trade classification that originally existed, and working their crops to produce them. The result of our Tea-growing system is that a very superior article is produced with certainty, and although the first attempts produced Tea of a somewhat strong characteristic flavour, advances are being so rapidly made that in the course of a little time it is more than probable that Indian and Cingalese Tea will be superior in aroma and flavour to the best China can produce. Tea—continued. The value of Tea depends upon the succulence of the leaves, and this succulence is in proportion to their age, the youngest being best. As shown in the drawing (see Fig. 763), the smallest leaves and buds (a) give Flowery Fig. 763. Spray op Tea Plant Showing Various Grades of Quality. Pekoe; (b) Orange Pekoe; (c) Pekoe; (d) First Souchong; (e) Second Souchong; (/) Congou; (a b c) mixed Pekoe of a superior class; (abed e) mixed Pekoe Souchong; and any leaves picked below/, such as g, h, Boliea. Tea is divided into two great classes, known as Black and Green Teas, this colour depending upon the mode of manufacture; Black Tea being allowed to turn colour in the sun before it is curled and dried, and Green Tea being dried in its freshly-picked state. Amongst the Chinese colourings are used for both kinds, more or less of a noxious character, but amongst our own manufacturers we are protected by law from such iniquitous adulterations. However interesting the subject of Tea-growing and manufacturing may be, there is not room in this Encyclo- pedia for its further description; we must be content herein to take these matters for granted, and consider Tea as we buy it at the grocer’s. In addition to the foregoing classification, Black Tea is further known as Broken Pekoe, Pekoe Dust, Broken Mixed Tea, Broken Souchong, Broken Leaf, Fannings, and Dust, these latter being much less costly than the superior kinds, some of which are almost fabulous in price. The characters of the different kinds mentioned are: Flowery Pekoe.—Greenish-gray or silver tint, the leaf turning green on infusing. Orange Pekoe.—Orange coloured ends to leaves. Ordinary Pekoe. — Blackish or grayish-black dotted throughout with grayish or yellowish leaves, having a downy appearance. Pekoe Souchong.—Deficient in Pekoe ends. Souchong. —The medium quality Tea, even, straight, or slightly-curled leaves, fin. to If in. long. Congou.—Larger leaf than Souchong. Bohea.—Largest leaf, brownish or pale yellowish in hue. Broken Teas, Fannings, or Dust may have the same qualities as the sound samples, but they are liable to be mixed with dirt, and other sweepings. There are other Black Teas, such as Namuna, Oolong, Oopack, &c., but they resemble in one or other particular the standards already described. Of Green Teas, Gunpowder is the most valuable, having the appearance of little balls. Imperial is the next in size, being larger than Gun- powder. Hyson is the medium Green Tea. Young Hyson is a smaller variety of Hyson. Hyson Skin is broken Hyson and young Hyson mixed