526 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Strudels—continued. the oven. When they rise pour some hot milk over them, replace the cover, and hake to a golden brown colour. (4) Warm a small lump of butter, then beat it well, adding gradually the yolks of four eggs; heat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and beat them in with the others. Add a small quantity of salt, and work in by degrees sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. Knead the dough well, divide it into small equal sized quantities, and roll them out into very thin cakes. Grate 4oz. of chocolate, blanch and pound in a mortar 4oz. of almonds, and mix them together with the yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them with the others; spread warmed butter over the Strudels, then spread a thin layer of the chocolate mixture over, and roll them up. Butter a dish on which the Strudels can be served, and one that will bear the heat of the oven, lay the Strudels on it side by side, dust caster sugar and grated chocolate over them, and put them in a moderate oven. When nearly cooked, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of cream and finish baking. When cooked and lightly browned, take the Strudels out of the oven and serve them. STUFFING.—The more artistic term for this is force- meat, but as that savours very much of the foreign kitchen British cooks persist in retaining the old name for the seasoning used to stuff poultry, meat, &c. The following receipts are those generally in use, and others will be found under special headings : Stuffing for Birds.—Peel two large onions, parboil them, then drain and finely chop them. Soak 1 breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb without becoming too soft. Put 4oz. of butter in a stew- pan, place it over the fire, and when the butter is melted put in the onions, breadcrumbs, l table spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a paste without letting it boil. The Stuffing is fhen ready. It can be made in larger or smaller quantities, according to the size or number of birds to be stuffed. Stuffing for Ducks.—(1) Peel a moderate-sized onion and a sour cooking apple, chop them both very finely, and mix with them 6oz. of finely-grated stale breadcrumb, 1 scant table-spoonful of sage leaves, either powdered or finely minced, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Bind the whole together with a beaten egg, and it is then ready for the ducks. (2) Peel and boil until nearly tender two moderate-sized onions; drain and chop them, put them in a basin with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped or powdered sage. Bind the mixture with a well-beaten egg, and use it. Stuffing for Fish.—(1) Weigh 21b. of crumb of bread with- out the crust, and cut it into small squares; mix with them J table-spoonful of powdered herbs and plenty of salt and pepper. Dissolve 6oz. of butter or lard in J pint of warm water, and beat in the yolk« of four eggs. Pour the liquid mixture over the bread and stir it well, but with- out mashing it; it is then ready for use. (2) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop it finely; mix it with 1 lb. of finely- grated breadcrumb, season it with h table-spoonful of minced parsley, half that quantity of thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Work well until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended, adding gradually the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one. When thoroughly mixed the Stuffing is ready for use. (3) Mix together in a basin 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-chopped onion, parsley, capers, and pickles, h teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. When well mixed the Stuffing is ready for use. Should a moist Stuff- ing be required, bind the ingredients together with one egg well beaten with the butter. Stuffing for Fowls.—Trim off all the crust from 21b. of bread ; put the crumb into a basin of cold water, soak it For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Stuffing—continued. for five minutes, then turn it on to a colander and drain well, pressing out the water with a plate. When almost dry, cut the bread into small squares, and season it well with powdered sage, salt, and black pepper. Warm 1 breakfast-cupful of butter or the fat from fried sausages, beat in an egg and 3 teacupfuls of warm water, and pour it over the bread, stirring it lightly but not mashing it. Let it soak for ten minutes, and the Stuffing will then be ready for use. Stuffing for Goose.—Roast fifty chestnuts, taking care not to let them burn; peel them, removing both inner and outer peels, and chop them. Chop the goose’s liver, put it in a saucepan with J table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chives, shallots, and a small clove of chopped garlic, and about 2oz. of butter; fry them for a few minutes, then put in the chopped chestnuts with lib. of sausage-meat and fry the whole for fifteen minutes longer. The Stuffing is then ready for the goose. Stuffing for Hare.—Partially boil the liver of a hare, finely chop it, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped fat hacon, a small quantity of chopped suet, and a boned, washed, and chopped anchovy; season it with moderate quantities of parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, shallot, and chives, all finely chopped, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Put the whole in the mortar with about J of the quantity of grated breadcrumb and pound it until smooth; bind it with beaten egg, and stuff the hare with it. Stuffing for Poultry Galantines.—Cut into very small squares about 3lb. of the cooked flesh of either ducks or fowls; peel and chop two hard-boiled eggs and one small onion. Mix all these ingredients together with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs, three well-beaten eggs, and J breakfast-cupful of poultry-fat that has been warmed. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and chopped sage. After the forcemeat has been spread in the boned duck or other bird, about 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped aspic jelly strewn over will be an improvement and it will set in the forcemeat. Stuffing for Rabbits.—(1) Peel two moderate-sized onions and boil them; when tender, drain and mince them. Chop Jib. of pickled pork and a few fine herbs, mix them with the onions, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and add a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to make it consistent. Season to taste with pepper and salt, using a very small quantity of the latter on account of the salt in the pork. The Stuffing is then ready for use. (2) Place in a saucepan on the hot range half a good- sized chopped onion with 1 table-spoonful of butter; cook for one minute, then add 2oz. of sausage-meat, six chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and season with J pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. Cook all together for six minutes and then let it cool. Peel four fine apples, cut each into six equal parts, remove the cores, place them in a pan on the fire with J wineglassful of white wine or cider, boil for five minutes, place this with the forcemeat, mix all well together, and it is ready for use when cold. Stuffing for Sucking-pig.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of oil. Toss them over the fire for about five minutes, add 8oz. of rice boiled in stock, an equal quantity of sausage-meat, 4oz. of butter, a little minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Turn the mixture into a basin and add three eggs to make the whole into a stiff paste. It is then ready for use. Stuffing for a Turkey (Boiled) or Rabbit.—Remove the outer peel of lib. of chestnuts, put them in boiling water until the inner skins can be easily removed, then trim them off and put the chestnuts into a small lined sauce- pan ; cover with broth and boil them till a pulp and the broth has reduced. Pass the chestnuts through a fine wire sieve. Chop fine Jib. of cold boiled fat bacon, and mix it with the chestnut puree; season to taste with salt, pepper, and minced lemon-peel. The Stuffing is then ready for use. Stuffing for Turkey (Roasted).—To lib. of sifted bread- crumbs add 41b. of butter, lib. of boiled and mashed Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads.