606 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. of chicken consomme. Place the saucepan hack on the fire, and boil for a quarter-of -an-hour longer ; strain the sauce, put it into bottles, and when cold cork them down, and the sauce is then ready for use. (6) Peel lib. of Tomatoes, put them into a saucepan with lib. of moist sugar, and add a seasoning of ginger, cloves, mace, and allspice. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until the Tomhtoes are done, taking care not to let them break. Put them into a stone jar, pour over 1 pint of vinegar, fasten down so as to exclude the air, and the sauce will keep good for years. (7) Well wash several pounds of Tomatoes, put them into an earthenware bowl, and mash them well; turn the pulp into a saucepan, warm it, put a colander into the saucepan, press it down, and with a spoon take out as much juice as possible. Boil well for a short time, strain through a sieve only sufficiently fine to prevent the skins going through, put the pulp back again into the - saucepan, boil until it is pretty thick, add sugar to taste, and a seasoning of ground spices. Pour the sauce while still boiling into hot bottles, cork them down at once, let them cool, and the sauce is ready for use. It will keep i good for a year or more. (8) Cut some Tomatoes in slices, and put them in a jar, with a sprinkling of Worcestershire sauce between each layer. Stand the jar in a warm place by the fire ; stir the I contents pretty often for three days, and let it afterwards I remain untouched for twelve days. At the end of that tune squeeze the juice out of the Tomatoes into a lined pan, and season with small quantities of ginger, allspice, mace, cloves, and pepper; there should be ‘2oz. of spice in all to every quart of juice, the pepper and allspice greatly predominating. Boil the juice until well flavoured with the spices, then strain it into a bottle, and cork it. In three months’ time boil the juice up again with fresh spice, strain, and return to the bottle. (9) Cut an onion and a carrot in slices, put them into a saucepan with a clove of garlic, a little thyme, and a few peppercorns ; add 2 table spoonfuls of lard, and cook until the onion and carrot are done. Cut six Tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, cut them into slices, and add them to the ingredients in the saucepan; pour over suffi cient broth to moisten, place the iaucepan back on the fire, and reduce the liquor without stirring. Turn the whole out on to a sieve, and rub it through into another saucepan. Boil quickly, thicken with a little flour, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire. Put 5oz. of ham, cut up small, into a saucepan, with a little lard or butter, make it lmt over the fire, stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, add this mixture to the Tomatoes, warm with- out boiling, and the sauce is ready for use. (10) Put 31b. of tamarinds into a basin 114111 lqt. of vinegar; let them soak for about twelve hours, rub the whole through a fine sieve into a saucepan, pour in 2qts. more vinegar, and add 21b. of green ginger, 141b. of garlic, and lib. of chillies, all finely ground, and about lib. of salt. Put about five hundred Tomatoes into a bowl, bruise them well, add them to the other ingredient-.-, and stir well over the fire until the preparation thickens. Let it get cold, strain off the liquor carefully, put it into bottles, and it is ready for use. (11) Put 41b. or so of Tomatoes into a saucepan, season well with a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, salt, and pepper, and cook gently for an hour or so. Strain the sauce through a sieve, add a little butter rolled in flour, and a small quantity of lemon juice; make the sauce hot without boiling, and it is ready for use. (12) Put a slice of ham at the bottom of a saucepan, with any trimmings of meat, one or two cloves, a little celery, and a few slices of carrot and onion; cover these with Tomatoes, and cook gently over a slack fire, stirring frequently until the Tomatoes are thoroughly cooked. They should be broken and mashed with a wooden spoon while cooking. Add a little Hour and stock, cook for twenty minutes longer, rub the sauce through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use, and should be of the con- sistency of cream. Tomatoes—continued. (13) Put some Tomatoes into the oven, and bake them till quite soft; scrape the pulp out with a teaspoon, add a little salt and cayenne, and stir vinegar into it till it is .about the thickness of thick cream. Serve in a sauce tureen. (14) Procure the required quantity of ripe Tomatoes, put them in a large stone or earthenware jar, cover with a plate, and bake them. When tender, rub the Tomatoes through a fine sieve. Mix with every breakfast cupful of the pulp 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, loz. of shallots, a clove of garlic, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 4 saltspoonful of white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the whole together, and when of the thickness of cream pass through a fine hair sieve. Turn the sauce into bottles, and cork them down. (15) Cut the Tomatoes up, take out their pips, and let as much of their juice run away as possible. Put a small quantity of chopped bacon in a stewpan with some sweet herbs, chopped parsley and shallot, a few cloves, and a dust of salt and pepper. Fry these ingredients for a few minutes, then put in the Tomatoes, and let them simmer gently for half-an-hour or more until they are quite dis- solved. They must be frequently stirred. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (16) Imitation.—Bake some apples till quite soft, scrape the pulp out with a teaspoon, add a little salt and cayenne, with sufficient turmeric to colour the pulp like Tomatoes, and mix a little vinegar with it. (17) Italian Zuchillo.—Cut into small squares an equal quantity of trimmings of fat bacon and beef, using about lib. of each ; peel and cut an onion into small pieces, mix all together, and put them mto a basin of cold water ; next drain off the water, turn the contents of the basin on to a cloth, and squeeze them dry. Rub the interior of a saucepan with a clove of garlic, put in the above mixture, and place it over the fire; toss the contents occasionally until the onion is cooked, then add in mode- rate quantities some chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut a piece of Tomato conserve that has been dried in the sun into very small pieces, and stir them in, a small quantity at a time, with the contents of the saucepan. Next stir in gradually, 4 teacupful at a time, about 1 pint of water. Boil for five or seven minutes, then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Skim off the fat, and it is ready for use. Fresh Tomatoes can be used in place of the conserve if more convenient; the latter, if at all old and tough, should be softened by soaking in a little water. The garlic may be omitted if the flavour is not desired. (18) Procure ripe, freshly-gathered Tomatoes, remove the stalks and green part surrounding them, cut them into quarters, and take out the seeds and watery substance. Put an equal quantity of chopped beef and fat bacon into a saucepan with a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, an onion, salt and pepper to taste, and toss them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; afterwards put in the Tomatoes, a few at a time, and stir them over the fire until reduced. Strain and skim the sauce, and it is ready for use. (19) Cut 41b. each of beef and fat bacon into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a chopped onion, a moderate quantity each of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss the whole over the fire for several minutes, then stir in some Tomato paste cut into small pieces; pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of water to make the sauce, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce, skim off all the fat, and it is ready for serving. Tomato Soup.—(1) Put lqt. of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 pint of hot water, and bring it to the boil. Rub together 2 piled table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table- spoonful of butter; stir this into the boiling mixture, and. season to taste. Boil for fifteen minutes in all, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut off some thin slices of bread, without crusts, butter them, cut them into dice, put them in a pan with their buttered sides up, and brown in a quick oven. Serve the bread and soup separately. (2) Grate a large boiled carrot into a saucepan ; pour over 3qts. of rich beef stock and sufficient Tomatoes stewed