TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 514 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Stock—continued. onions, four sticks of celery, a blade of mace, and a piece of stick cinnamon ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer for an hour longer. Strain the Stock through a line hair sieve into a large bowl, and leave it in a cool place until the morning. Skim the fat off the Stock, which will be a stiff jelly, then turn it gently into a deep dish, anti with a knife scrape off the sediment which will have settled at the bottom. Keep the jelly in a stone jar in a cool temperature. It will keep for a week or more if the weather be cold; but as it will not keep so long in the hot weather, it can be made in smaller quantities than the above mentioned if desired. STOCKFISH.—A name given to salted, dried, and cured fish, they being especially suited to keeping in stock. STOMACHIC LIQUEUR—-See Cordials and Liqueurs. STONE CREAM.—See Cream. STOPPERS.—These are usually made of glass, and are fitted to bottles by grinding the outside of the Stopper plug and the inside of the neck which receives it. Be- cause of their accurate fitting it is not unusual for them to get fixed, or stuck, and then considerable patience and ingenuity is required to move them. Pressing the thumb against one side of the handle of the Stopper, and tapping the opposite side with a piece of hard wood will sometimes have the desired effect. A little spirit or oil may be set to soak in between the Stopper and the neck, requiring some little time to do so, and then considerable force may be used to turn the Stopper. Heating the neck, and then directly twisting the Stopper, will some- times succeed when other methods fail. See Corks, Decanters, &c. STORE-ROOM.—Every good housekeeper will have a room in which stores for the household can be kept under lock and key. Groceries should always, if possible, be bought in quantity, and it is well to remember that at certain times of the year some goods are cheaper than at other times; all these details should be carefully notified, and a book kept to enter dates of purchase, quantities, and price paid. A dry room should be selected for keeping stores, and this should be amply fitted with drawers, shelves, and nails or hooks. There should be earthenware jars for sugar, tins for tea, coffee, cocoa, biscuits, and loaf sugar, and a net for lemons. Jams, pickles, and preserves should be kept in the coolest part of the room. Tallow candles can be hung to the ceiling, and wax or paraffin candles are best kept in a box. Soap should be cut up and stood with spaces between the pieces, being turned at regular intervals of time. Starch must be kept very dry. Rice, tapioca, and sago must be kept in covered vessels, or they will get insects in them. Flour is usually kept in the pantry, in a tub. Onions, shallots, and garlic should not be kept in a Store-room for obvious reasons. Dried herbs in separate paper bags may be conveniently suspended from the walls. Apples must be stored in a convenient out- house, and vegetables are best on a stone floor. Other goods may be stored according to the facilities at disposal. Remember that scrupulous cleanliness is of the first consideration; to ensure this the walls and ceiling should be white-washed occasionally, and the floor thoroughly washed over once now and again, care being taken to air the room as it dries. STOUT.—A strong black or brown beer, the colour being due to the use of malt that has been dried almost to burning in a kiln. See Beer. Mulled Stout.—(1) Sweeten the Stout to taste with brown sugar, and flavour it with small quantities of grated nutmeg and ginger, and for each pint allow 1 wineglassful of gin. Stout—co n tinned. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, and place it over the fire. Put some thin slices of slightly-browned toast in a large jug, pour in the Stout when it is quite hot, and serve. (2) Boil in \ pint of water for nearly fifteen minutes 2oz. of brown sugar and a small quantity each of cinnamon, bruised cloves, and powdered ginger; then mix in 1 pint of Stout and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When nearly boiling, add 1 wineglassful of whisky, pour it into a jug, and serve it with sippets of toast in the jug. STOVES AND RANGES.—If the art of cooking advanced as rapidly in this country as do improvements in Stoves and Ranges, there would be some foundation for hoping that sooner or later this would become the most expert of cooking countries; for in no other part of the world have such vast strides been made, or such clever inventions been placed before the public, as have happened in Great Britain during the past half or quarter of a century. The excellence of style and perfec- tion of utility gained by our Stove and Range makers have created for them a well-merited demand in all civilised parts of the world. In France, which may be considered the queen of cooking countries, British Stoves are pre- ferred to all others, not only on account of their superior metal and manufacture, but because they do their work best. In Italy, Spain, Germany, Russia, and their dependencies, British-made Stoves and Ranges rank highest by far, surpassing even those of American manu- facture, which fact is, to say the least, a grand tribute to British workmanship and industry. With such Stoves and Ranges at hand it is surprising that British cooks take so little pains to perfect themselves in the use of them. We are known to possess the best apparatus, and to grow the largest and finest assortment of ingredients—what more can be required then than their skilful application; and this the “ Encyclopaedia of Practical Cookery ” is well calculated to bring about amongst those who read and accept its instructions. In many parts of the world the most skilful cooks have to make shift with inferior Fig. 665. Modern Close Range, on Kitchener. cooking Stoves and utensils. In England the very best are at their disposal. What wonder then that foreign cooks, who understand so well the full value of a good Stove, should surpass British cooks, who, familiar with perfect Stoves, take no trouble to understand them, but expect them to make up by their goodness for a defi- ciency in their own learning, intelligence, or training. In the construction of a kitchen Range—that is, one intended for cooking—it is necessary to consider whether it be advisable or not to erect a Stove for each