543 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads, Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. The class of ornaments that can be manufactured in this way are very numerous, and more or less elaborate— stars, crescents, rosettes, flowers, leaves, &c. Roses, and some other flowers, can be better piped on a “ broad-headed nail,” as it is called (see Fig. 718), several of which can be worked at the same time, bit by bit. The nail stem is held between the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, whilst the bag, with appropriate tube, is held in the right. By a dexterous rotary movement the nail is made to receive the piping, and, as each distinct part is laid on, the nail is stood up in a flat tray containing powdered Sugar, that being least liable to injure the roses as they are formed, until the work is dry ; and then the next row of petals is laid on by a dexterous working of the left hand, and a convenient tube. The centre is first crowned with a coil from a small star tube (see Fig. 719), and the petals are then made by different sized curved tape-tubes, increasing in size as the rows of petals approach the out- side edge. When dry and set hard these roses are easily transferred to the cake, or can be made up into wreaths with piped leaves laid on a slab. Adhesion is secured with icing Sugar (that being used throughout) which is Fig. 719. Method of Piping Flowers. somewhat stiffer than usual, or made with gelatine, gum, or French glue. This kind of icing dries sooner and sets harder, and is consequently easier to handle in trans- ferring and fixing. SUGAR) CANDY.—This is nothing more than a refined saturated syrup set to cool with sticks or strings laid through the pan, and upon these crystallisation takes place. Brown Sugar Candy is prepared in this way from raw sugar, white from loaf sugar, and red from colouring the syrup with cochineal. SUGAR PLUMS.—See Dragees, Caraway Com- fits, &c. SULPHURIC ACID.—To the aerated-water manu- facturer this acid, under the name of white vitriol, is important as providing a powerful agent to act upon certain combinations of carbonic acid and earthy matter (such as lime in marble), and free the carbonic acid gas used for aerating water and other beverages. Sulphuric Acid is not used in cookery excepting as an adultera- tion. SULTANAS.—See Raisins. SULTANES.—These artistic constructions can be made either by moulding a lattice (see Sugar-Moulding) with sugar boiled to the crack (see Sugar-Boiling), or with stiff icing made with gelatine or French glue They represent chiefly hollow columns formed of latticed sugar, or a sort of fret-work prepared by piping on a tapering cylinder mould, such as would be used for form- ing a croquenbouche (see Fig. 720). When the sugar lattice is used it is made in a mould as shown under Sugar-moulding, and after being duly rolled round and the ends carefully joined, the next step is to set it on an ornamental gum paste, or china stand, and then proceed to its further ornamentation. After the top round (see Sugar-moulding) has been accurately laid on and fixed with sugar boiled to the crack, a vase of flowers may be stood on this, and wreaths of coloured sugar- flowers fastened round the edges, top and bottom. The rest of the ornamentation must depend upon the taste of the confectioner. Sultanes in icing sugar are constructed by means of the piping-tube. The cylinder-mould is heated and then rubbed lightly over with stearine (fat) or paraffin wax. A design may then be traced upon it by means of a stout needle, and after securing the ends, top and bottom, with a strong tape or a band of icing, the pattern can be worked out, great care being taken to make the threads join in as many places as possible, so as to give strength to the work. When completed the Sultane should be set aside to dry, and in two or three days’ time the mould may be warmed so as to melt the fat, and then the Sultane can be lifted off and made up after the style of those already described. A very beautiful design for a Sultane is shown in one of the Plates, the decorations being principally tufts of spun sugar set in crescents of sugar or marzipan, and fastened on to the Sultane by means of Sugar boiled to the crack. These exquisite creations of the confectioner’s art may be used to grace a royal table. They take the place of the old-fashioned sugar bird-cage that enchanted our youth- ful days, and the centres may be further filled with a