585 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces% etc., referred to see under their special heads. Terrapin — continued. butter, and 1 teaspoonful of flour added when the mixture is light and creamy, l'ut the preparation into a saucepan, sprinkle over cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste, and cook Fig. 778. Terrapin Salad. for two or three minutes; remove the pan from the lire, pour in a little wine, and turn the whole on to a dish covered with shredded lettuce. Garnish with slices of beetroot and hard-boiled eggs cut into halves (see Fig. 778). Terrapin Soup.—(1) Put the shells, heads, and trimmings of three Terrapins into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them gently for two or three hours, skimming it well at the first bubbling. When all the good has been ex tracted from the shells, &c., strain the liquor into a clean saucepan, put in the pieces of Terrapin-meat, and boil for an hour; the fat should be added after the meat has boiled a little time. At the end of that time, take out the pieces of Terrapin, and put them on a dish to cool. Strain the liquor into a bowl. Boil the bones that have been separated from the meat in ‘2qts. of water till all the gelatine has dissolved, then add the strained liquor, a bunch of thyme and parsley, 1 teaspoonful of bruised pepper- corns, two cloves, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, and half a blade of mace, and let it boil for half an hour longer. Cut the cold meat of the Terrapin into small square pieces, strain the soup into a clean saucepan, throw in the meat, and boil it up. Boil lqt. of cream in another saucepan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour and a piece of butter the size of a hen’s egg into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in the boiling cream ; strain this through a strainer into the soup. The soup should be served directly the cream is mixed with it. (2) Save the water used in boiling the Terrapin, and after they are dressed put their shells broken up into the water, and boil them for six hours; add stock or consomme to twice their height, and agaiu boil them until they begin to soften. Cool and clarify the broth thus made, season with salt, cayenne, and Madeira wine, and serve. (3) Put in a saucepan 1 pint of Spanish sauce and J pint of consomme ; add a faggot of sweet herbs, 1 table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a very little red pepper, the same of nutmeg, and \ wineglassful of Madeira wine. Boil for twenty minutes, being careful to remove the fat, if any, add £ pint of Terrapin, prepared as described, and boil for ten minutes longer. Remove the faggot of herbs, then serve with a few slices of lemon. Terrapin Steaks.—Cut the meat of a Terrapin into slices or steaks, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place a few lumps of butter on them, and either fry them in a frying-pan or broil on a gridiron. Put them on a dish when done, and serve very hot; or they may be dipped in batter before being salted and peppered, covered with melted butter and breadcrumbs, and then cooked. Vol-au-Vent of Terrapin.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Terrapin stock into a saucepan with two cloves and a little mace or parsley, and boil it up ; add 1 table-spoonful of browned flour mixed up with an equal quantity of butter to thicken it, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry wine, and strain the liquor into another saucepan. Add 2 breakfast- cupfuls of Terrapin-meat cut up in small pieces, sprinkle in a little each of salt and cayenne, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the preparation is done. Have ready eight vol-au-vent cases lined with puff paste and baked, fill them with the Terrapin mixture, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. TERMITES, or TERRENES.—Vessels made of earthenware that will stand heat. They are fitted with Terrines, or Terrenes—continued. lids (see Fig-. 779), and much used by Continental chefs fox- cooking vai-ious meats in the oven with a minimum of moisture. The edges of the lid are sometimes hermeti- cally sealed with flour-and-water paste, thus preventing the escape of steam. The process resembles braising, Fig. 779. Terrine. with the exception that the food is oftentimes seiwed in the Terrine in which it was baked. TESTE.—A beverage prepared by the natives of Nicax-agua, composed of pounded l-oasted Indian-corn, moistened with water, flavoured with chocolate, and sweetened. THEXNE.—The active principle of tea. THCERX</E0METER8.—Without the means of measur- ing heat it is of little use to mention the number of degrees i-equired for any specific purpose in cooking, fermenting, or any other px-ocess depending upon, or dii-ectly affecting, heat or temperature. Happily the ingenuity of scientific manufacturers has provided instru- ments whereby we are enabled to specify degrees of heat, and rely upon the results. Although rarely used by the cook, a Thermometer is of the first importance to ensure perfection in all sorts of culinary operations, especially those relating to baking and frying. Water always boils at an ascertained tenx- perature (212deg. Fahr.), and no Thermometer is necessai-y to ascertain this, sufficient evidence being given by the bubbling activity. Roasting inquires a vax-iety of degi’ees of heat, which the cook regulates according to the effect upon the meat being roasted, moving it nearer to the fir-e or farther fi-om it, according to circumstances. Grilling does not require a Thermometer to measure the heat; but baking requires the utmost care in regulating the degrees of heat, and no better method of effecting this can be found than by using an oven Thermometer, such as that invented and made by Messrs. Joseph, Davis, and Co., which has been favourably l-eceived in most large kitchens. Oven Thennometers ai-e of two kinds, those which stand in the oven (see Fig. 780) and those which ax-e affixed to the door or side of the oven, the bulb entex-ing the oven through a hole exit for its x-eception, and the index being oxxtside. The faces of these Thermometers not oixly indicate degrees of temperature, bxxt the degrees required to cook varioixs articles. The oven Thermometers hex-e specially referx-ed to as beixxg possibly the best in the world, are described by the manufacturers as having improved chambered unburst- able tubes, nxoxxnted on a copper, or copper and silvered, | scale. Soxxie of them show on one side the correct tem- perature at which food should be put in the oven, and on the other side the eox-rect tenxperatux-e at which food should be kept in to cook it, thus forming at once a lesson in, and guide to perfection in cookery. Much difficulty is generally experienced by cooks in frying; they cannot easily gauge the heat of the fat, as it gives such very indefinite indications, even when boiling. It bubbles before it boils, and smokes when too