THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 455 For details respectin'i Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under the.ir special heads. Skewers—co ntinued. for they were splints of wood used to fasten small joints or birds to the spit. The variety of Skewers in kit- chen use depends mainly upon a difference of size and material, being made of both wood and iron. Wooden Skewers should not he used a second time, or the meat may he spoiled. Wire Skewers are more serviceable for trussing and fixing meat, birds, or fish, and they can be easily cleaned. Orna- mental electroplated or silver Skewers, called attelettes and brochettes, are much used by artistic cooks. The ordinary cook may be contented with a set (see Fig. 581) consisting of different-sized Skewers on a frame. SKIM MILK.—See Milk. SKIMMERS.—Sometimes a large spoon answers very well the purpose of Fig. 582. Skimmer. skimming, but although such utensils are joi indispensable, another kind (see Fig. 582) SetofSkewers is to be found in many kitchens, used princi- 0N Frame- pally for skimming the fat off cold broth. It is a slightly-hollowed perforated round sheet of tin, with sharp edges and a handle that curves over its edge into the hollow surface. These are, perhaps, the most effective Skimmers ever invented. SKIN.—The outside covering as of an animal or fruit. As it forms a protective casing to some delicate material beneath it, cooks usually disregard the probabi- lity of its containing important nutritive elements. From the Skin of an animal valuable gelatine is obtained. SKIRRETS (Fr. Chervis; Ger. Zucker wurzeln; Ital. Sisari; Sp. Chirivias).—An umbelliferous plant (Siu/in, Sisarum), a native of China, introduced into this country about the middle of the sixteenth century. The roots (see Fig 583), for the sake of which this plant is culti- vated, consist of small fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger. They are very white and sweet, and con- sidered by some to be the most delicious of all root vegetables. Skirrets make a good winter vegetable, Skirrets—continued. being in their prime after the plants have completed their summer growth; if left in the ground during the winter they become hard and woody. Continental cooks use them for garnishing. Prepared as follows they are very nice: Boiled Skirrets.—When thoroughly washed and cleaned, young Skirrets may be boiled in salted water until tender and then served on a hot dish with white or bechamel sauce over them. Braised Skirrets.—Pick over some Skirrets, cut them into slices, and then into half rounds. Wash them thoroughly in water, take them out, dry them, and put them in a covered earthenware baking-dish, with a piece of fresh butter at the bottom. Seal the edge of the baking-disli with a paste made of flour and water. Put them in the oven for a couple of hours or so, turn them out on to a hot dish, and sprinkle with minced fine herbs. Fried Skirrets.—(1) Partly boil the well-washed roots in salted water, then cut them in slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip them in frying-batter, and drop them, one by one, in boiling fat in a stewpan. When they are of a golden colour, drain them on a cloth, pile them on a folded napkin, and garnish the disli with filed parsley. (2) Take some Skirret-roots, wash, scrape, and plunge into boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes; drain them in a colander, and then fry them in a little butter till brown. SLAPJACKS—The name given in the United States to some very delicious cakes, which are made as follows: (1) Pour over 1 pint of cornflour sufficient hot milk to moisten it, and let it stand until cool, then add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, two eggs beaten to a froth, and sufficient cold milk to make a batter thick enough to keep its form on the griddle oY in a frying-pan; newly-fallen snow may be substituted for eggs, 1 table-spoonful for an egg, or if neither milk nor eggs are available the same process may be followed by using water, and beating the batter > steadily until enough air is beaten into it to make it foamy. It must be baked directly or the air will escape, and the Slapjacks will be heavy. Put the hatter on the pan by the spoonful, and when the upper part of the Slap- jack is full of holes and the under part brown, turn it. Serve the Slapjacks with sugar, molasses, butter, or salted pork drippings. (2) Dissolve 2 teaspoonfuls of salt in 1 pint of cold water; mix the water smoothly with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and beat the mixture until it foams, then stir into it enough flour to make a rather thin batter. Fry the Slapjacks in a hot frying-pan rubbed with a piece of raw fat salted pork or with a small piece of butter tied in a piece of clean cloth. If the frying-pan is not smooth, the cakes will stick to it, therefore clean it by washing and wiping it thoroughly, and then rubbing it hard with dry salt. SLAW.—See Cabbages. SLICE (Fr. Tranche).—A broad flat piece cut off any material, and thus the term has come to be used for the instrument employed in cutting it. See Slicers. SLICERS.—Almost any kind of knife can be used for cutting slices, but in cases where it is desirable that the . -J Fig. 584. Meat-carvers slices should be cut with mathematical precision, various kinds of apparatus have been invented for performing the operation.