495 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sour-crout—continued. To serve the Sour-crout, drain it, put it on a dish, lay the meat on it, and serve them together. When it is cooked without meat it is simply served as a vegetable. \\ lien cold it may be chopped and fried in butter, or heated in a white sauce or some gravy. Sour-crout with Apples.—Finely shred some white hearted cabbages, peel half the quantity of apples, and cut them into thin slices, ltub the inside of a saucepan over with butter; put at tlie bottom a piece of fat bacon, then a layer of the cabbage, a small lump of butter, four slices of lemon, a small quantity of ground mace and pepper, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, then the apples, some slices of ham, and more cabbage, in alternate layers. When the stewpan is full, put a layer of veal-fat on the top and bake the contents for three hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Sour-crout with Goose (Roumanian).—Draw and wash a fat goose, and season the inside of it with salt and pepper and any other kind of seasoning desired. Cut one large or two small cabbages into very thin shreds, and mix eighteen or twenty peppercorns with them. Put it in a baking- dish, and place the goose on the top. Place in a moderate Sour-crout—continued. Let it cook slowly for three hours, drain the Sour-crout, and dish it up with the pork on top; the pork may either be served in one piece or divided into six slices, arranging the sausages round. Sour-crout with Sausages and Bacon.—Blanch 21b. of Sour-crout in boiling water for a few minutes, then drain it, press all the moisture out, and leave it till cold. Put the Sour-crout in a stewpan with Hb. each of German sausage and streaky bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two or three cloves, and sufficient broth to cook them in. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer till half done, then put in seven or eight pork sausages, and finish cooking. Fig. 627. Sour-crout with Sausages and Bacon. Fig. 626. Sour-crout with Goose. oven and bake it, basting occasionally with butter. When cooked, put the goose on a hot dish, garnish it with the Sour-crout (see Fig. 626), and serve with a sauceboatful of good gravy. Sour-crout with Oysters.—Put 61b. of Sour-crout into a saucepan with plenty of water and ^lb. each of butter and lard, and boil until the Sour-crout is quite tender. An earthenware or porcelain-lined pot closely covered is better for this purpose than a saucepan, and a sheet of buttered paper should be laid over the Sour-crout before the lid is put on. Take it out when done, and drain it thoroughly on a sieve or strainer. In the meantime put into a sauce- pan 4oz. of butter, 1 table spoonful of flour, and 2 breakfast- cupfuls of cream; stir well over the fire until it boils, pour it at once over the Sour-crout, and shake well. Have ready opened about twelve dozen oysters, put them into a saucepan with their liquor, add a little pepper, and stew them. Put a layer of the Sour-crout at the bottom of a deep dish, cover with a layer of oysters and their juice, and serve as hot as possible. Pike and carp may be used together with the oysters, using less of the latter. The fish must first be boiled, bones and skin removed, and pulled into flakes or pieces before using. Sour-crout Pate.—Put l|lb. of Sour-crout in a saucepan with a piece of bacon and sufficient broth to cover it, and let it cook gently for three hours. Line a buttered pie-mould with a rich short-paste, strain the Sour-crout, put a layer of it at the bottom of the pie, then some slices of pork, and a few truffles. Spread over these some finely-minced meat, any kind will do, then the flesh of two pigeons, another layer of Sour-crout, and then a covering of paste, making a hole in the top. Bake the pie, and while cooking prepare some gravy and flavour it with truffles and olives. When cooked, pour the gravy through the hole at the top of the pie, and serve. Sour-crout with Pork and Sausages.—Well wash 3 pints of Sour-crout in several waters, drain it well, and put it in a saucepan with a large piece of well-washed salt pork, three smoked sausages, two carrots, two whole onions, \ breakfast-cupful of roasted meat fat, six juniper-berries, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and 1 pint of white broth. When done, drain the Sour-crout, put it on a hot dish, place the sausages on the top, cut the bacon and German sausage into slices, arrange them round the Sour-crout (see Fig. 627), and serve. Sour-crout with Tinned Meat.—Put as much Sour-crout as wanted in a saucepan of boiling water, let it boil for five minutes, then strain it; put it into a stewpan with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a couple of small onions cut into thin slices; tie some allspice, whole pepper, and mace in a muslin bag, and put them in also. When this has stewed for twenty minutes, add 21b. of tinned beef or mutton, first scraping the fat off. As soon as the meat is hot, serve it with some nicely-fried slices of onion. SOUBiSOF.—The fruit of a West Indian shrub or small tree (Anona muricata) closely allied to the custard- apple. The pulp is whitish, and has a pleasant sub-acid taste that is reckoned very grateful. It is greenish and Fig. 628. Soursop. covered with prickles, and often weighs as much as 21b. or 31b. The natives of the districts in which it grows believe it to be very wholesome, and a preservative against all sorts of evils (see Fig. 628). SOUSE.—The term is probably a corruption of the French saucer—to sauce, or steep in sauce. By English