493 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. lor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. fire, and let it stew gently, stirring constantly till the bread is well mixed. Add then the yolks of four eggs beaten up with lqt. of cream; stir till quite hot but not boiling, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Soup with Noques.—Put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then add 4oz. of flour and stir it over the fire till nicely browned. Pour in gradually with the flour 3qts. of rich broth, continue stirring over the fire till the broth boils, then move the stewpan a little to the side of the fire. Warm till, of butter in a basin, and work it wife a spoon till creamy ; then mix with it, one at a time, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two. Beat the butter and eggs till light and frothy, then sift in gradually 6oz. of flour; work the whole to a smooth paste, season it with grated nutmeg and salt, and add the whipped 'whites of two more eggs. Try the consistency of the above mixture by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water; stir in a little flour if too light, or if too consistent a little butter. Divide the mixture into small equal portions and shape them into round balls. Drop the noques into a saucepan of boiling salted water, give them one boil up, then move the pan to the side of the fire, and boil them gently till firm. Beat the yolks of four eggs with a little cream, skim the fat off the Soup, pour in the beaten eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. The Soup should not boil after the eggs are added. Drain the noques, put them into a soup-tureen, strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve over them, ami serve. Soup without Water.—Cut about 21b. of gravy beef into small pieces, and put them into an earthenware jar with an equal quantity of small carrots, turnips, and onions, two heads of celery, and 1 handful of spinach leaves. Put a plate on the top of the jar, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the water boil gently for two hours. Strain the gravy that has come from the meat into a saucepan, mix 1 teacupful of cream with it, season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Serve the Soup in a soup-tureen. Spring Soup (a la Frintaniere).—(1) Boil one small cauli- flower, three young carrots, the same of turnips, a stick or two of celery, and J pint of asparagus-heads till tender. Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of flour and butter into a frying- pan and stir it over the fire till quite smooth, but do not let it brown. Put 2qts. of Soup stock into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then stir in the cooked flour and 1 teacupful of tomatoes; let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Ileturn the Soup to the saucepan, put in the cooked vegetables and h pint of green peas, stand the pan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. When ready, turn the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with it a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Put 21b. of the scrag end of neck of veal into a saucepan with 2qts. of cold water and boil it, adding a small lump of salt. When boiling, put into the water two large onions, two turnips, one carrot, half a blade of mace, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a few peppercorns. Let the Soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for three hours, adding occasionally a little more water and skimming off all the fat. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, boil it up again, and skim well. Put some spring onions, asparagus, cabbage, and lettuce, that have been boiled separately and cut into small pieces, into a soup-tureen; pour the Soup over them, dust in a little salt and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast, or, if preferred, croutons of fried bread. In both the foregoing receipts the vegetables should be cut into thin slices and stamped out into ornamental shapes. Summer Soup.—(1) Cut Jib. of salt pork into thin slices, put them in a saucepan, and fry them over a slow fire. Cut into small pieces three large onions, half a carrot, half a turnip, and half a small head of cabbage. Put the vegetables hi with the pork, place the lid on the sauce- pan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents Soups—continued. cook slowly for an hour, stirring them frequently to prevent burning. At the end of that time, pour in with the above ingredients 2qts. of boiling water, let it simmer for an hour, then add three potatoes cut into slices, and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour that has been mixed into a smooth paste with a little cold water; season the Soup to taste with salt and pepper, and leave it to cook slowly for an hour longer, adding at the end of the first half-hour 1 pint of green peas. Cut six large slices of bread, toast them nicely, then put them in a soup-tureen. Pour the Soup over the toast, and serve. (2) Maigre.—Boil 2qts. of green peas in lgall. of water, and when tender pass them through a fine hair sieve; then put them back, with the water in which they were boiled, into the saucepan. Wash four large lettuces, trim off the outside leaves, and cut the hearts into small pieces; put them in a saucepan with three peeled and sliced cucumbers and two whole onions. Cover the vegetables with water, and boil them till tender; strain the vegetables, put them into the saucepan with the peas, and add two or three lumps of loaf sugar and a little finely-chopped parsley. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour, then put in 1 pint more of green peas, and let them simmer half-an-hour longer. When cooked, take the onions out of the Soup, put in Jib. of butter, and stir it till it has dissolved. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Supper Soup.—Put into a saucepan 1 pint of cream, loz. of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, a small quantity of coriander-seeds, and two laurel-leaves; add lqt. of milk, let all boil together for a few minutes, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds and 3oz. of bitter almonds, pound them in a mortar to a fine paste, adding a little water to prevent them oiling. When the boiled milk and cream has cooled, strain it, mix in the pounded almonds, stir in the beaten yolks of ten eggs, put the mixture in a saucepan over a slow fire, and stir it without letting it boil, till it thickens. Cut some thin slices of French roll, lay them in the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Uka Soup (German).—Skin and wash two small eels, two perch, and two small tench, and cut the fish into thick pieces; put the heads and trimmings into a saucepan with some mixed vegetables, and a little over 2qts. of wine and water, mixed in equal quantities. Season the above ingre dients with salt and spices to taste, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Put a chopped carrot, onion, and a piece of celery-root in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Strain the prepared broth in with the fried carrot and onion, add the pieces of fish and a little more wine, and seasoning if required. Cook the fish slowly by the side of the fire, then drain the broth, skim off the fat, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till lightly browned; mix in gradually the strained fish broth, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling, then move the sauce- pan to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Pass the broth again through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in it some finely-shred raw mushrooms, the liquor from thirty-six oysters that have been blanched in white wine and drained, and let it simmer for ten minutes; then mix in the Soup the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick, not allowing it to boil again. Put the oysters in the Soup with the pieces of fish that have been trimmed and freed from all bone, and add a pinch each of chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Pour the Soup and fish into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot. Victoria Soup.—Place a small lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in 411). of veal, 21b. of the scrag end of neck of lamb, and Jib. of lean ham, all cut up; stir the meat over the fire for a few minutes, then add two carrots, two onions, one turnip, half a head of celery, two or three bay-leaves, and a small bunch of parsley. Stir all over a slow fire till the bottom of the pan is covered with a light glaze, then pour in a little