551 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sweetbreads—continued. wash eight or nine large mushrooms, peel them, put them into a saucepan with Joz. of butter, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice and a little salt and pepper, cover over the saucepan, and cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, mix thoroughly, pour in 1 teacupful of rich stock, and boil for a few minutes, stirring continually. Now add 1 table- spoonful of cream, also the mushrooms and Sweetbread, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and turn the mixture out to cool. Have ready twelve small patty-pans, well buttered and lined with thin puff paste, fill them with the Sweetbread mixture, cover with more of the paste, brush the top Over with well-beaten egg, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes ; take them out and serve at once. Sweetbreads with. Mushroom Sauce.—Wash the Sweet- breads and boil them for half-an-hour; when done, drain and leave them till cold. Trim the Sweetbreads, cut off all the fat, and put them in a flat stewpan; cover them with white stock, and let them simmer by the side of the fire till tender. Boil some potatoes, mash them, and put them on a dish. When cooked, drain the Sweetbreads, place them on the mound of potatoes, pour some white mushroom sauce over, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Sweetbread Pie.—(1) Disgorge all the blood from the Sweetbreads, boil them for twenty minutes, then cut them into small pieces. Butter a pie-dish, cover the bottom with a thick layer of puff paste, and line the sides of the dish with veal forcemeat. Fill the pie-dish with the pieces of Sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, asparagus peas, small forcemeat balls, artichoke bottoms cut in quarters, and the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs; dust in plenty of salt and pepper while filling the pie. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, pour in A pint of broth, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, damp and press the edges together, ornament the top with leaves and flowers cut out of the paste, and make a hole in the centre. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Before the pie is quite done boil some rich veal gravy, and thicken it with £ table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little cream. When cooked, pour the thickened gravy in the hole at the top of the pie, and serve. (2) Select two large calf’s Sweetbreads; clean, blanch, and parboil them, and when set cut them into slices. Cut up also a few small slices of cold lamb (say Jib.), the same quantity of streaky bacon, and a blanched ox palate. Fill up a pie-dish with these pieces, adding here and there a large oyster to the extent of a dozen, sprinkle in about 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped roast -chestnuts (not burnt), 1 salt- spoonful each of grated nutmeg and ground mace, and salt to taste. Put a few lumps of butter the size of a wal- nut over the top, and cover with a good crust. Ornament the top, and brush the paste over with a beaten egg. Bake slowly in a steady oven, and when the crust is com- pletely browned all over, lift up the crust from the pie-dish and pour in the following gravy, which has been prepared whilst the pie was baking: Put a basin in a larger one containing hot water, and into the inner basiD drop a pat of butter; when this has melted, beat into it four eggs, blend thoroughly, pour in the strained juice of a lemon, and 1 wineglassful of Madeira or other white wine, and mix well. This pie is difficult to surpass as a prime dish for a luncheon or small wedding-breakfast. (3) Boil two Sweetbreads until set, then lay them in cold water, and drain and skin them ; finely mince a few shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them about fora few minutes. Next put in the Sweetbreads and fiy them until nicely browned. Cut the Sweetbreads into small pieces. Soak some breadcrumbs in as much milk as they will absorb, then beat up with them the yolks of three eggs, a few blanched andchopjied oysters, four boned and chopped sardines, the juice and peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Mould the mixture into balls. Butter a pie-dish and line it with Sweetbreads—continued. a thin paste, put in a layer of Sweetbreads, then a layer of the balls, and so on until the dish is full. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten round the edges, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for an hour. Serve while hot. Sweetbread Ragoftt.—Cut the Sweetbreads in pieces about 1 Jin. square ami fry them nice and brown in butter; pour over them a small quantity of good gravy with a seasoning of pepper, allspice, salt, and mushroom ketchup, and stew them for twenty minutes or so. This gravy must be strained and thickened with flour and butter. A few morels, mushrooms, and truffles may be added. m Sweetbread Salad.—(1) Blanch and boil the Sweetbreads for fifteen minutes, then cool and slice them, and for every two Sweetbreads wash a head of lettuce in plenty of cold salted water, and dry them on a clean towel. Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl, add to it 1 teaspoonful each of dry mustard and salt, j; saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and mix these ingredients to a smooth cream; then stir in, drop by drop, enough oil to form a thick paste, add a little vinegar to liquefy it, then, alternately, more oil and vinegar, until there is enough dressing for the salad Arrange the lettuce on a salad- dish, put the Sweetbreads on it, and pour the dressing over them. Serve the salad as soon as it is made. (2) Before boiling, the Sweetbreads should be first steeped in cold water for two or three hours, then drained ami blanched. Leave the Sweetbreads till cold, then remove the sinews, and cut them into thin slices. Bub the slices over with flour, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, and fry them till nicely browned. When cold, cut each slice into halves, and arrange them in the centre of a dish. Garnish the Sweetbreads with a border of lettuces, radishes, and beetroot; other salad vegetables can also be used if liked. Pour a mayonnaise dressing over the Sweet- breads, and serve them. Sweetbread Saute.—Wash and boil a Sweetbread, then drain, and leave it till cool. Split the Sweetbread into halves, cut it in four pieces, and season them well with salt and pepper. Put 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour in a frying-pan and stir it over the fire till well mixed, then put in the pieces of Sweetbread, and toss them about constantly till lightly and equally browned ; they will take about eight minutes to do. Put the pieces on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce over, and serve. Sweetbread Saute with Wine (au Vin).—Put some Sweetbreads in a saucepan over the fire in hot water, keep it quickly boiling for five minutes, then take the Sweetbreads out, plunge them immediately into very cold water with a little salt in it, and let them get quite cold. Dry well, and cut them into slices length- wise about ^in. thick. Put loz. or rather more of butter into a frying-pan, and when quite hot put in the slices of Sweetbreads, fry them for ten minutes, constantly turning and shaking them about; then add J pint of good veal or fowl gravy, 1 dessert-spoonful each of chopped parsley and finely-chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or tomato ketchup; pour all these into the frying-pan hot; they should be all warmed in a small saucepan over the fire before frying the Sweetbreads and kept covered on the . stove, so that they shall be almost boiling when required. Cook the Sweetbreads in this five minutes longer, con- tinually moving them about and shaking the pan, then pour in 1 teacupful of brown sherry or freshly-opened champagne, boil it up again, put it on a hot dish, and serve. Sweetbreads with Sorrel.—Steep two fresh heart Sweet- breads in cold water for several hours, changing the water occasionally. Boil the Sweetbreads, drain, let them cool, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Put the Sweetbreads in a small stewpan, pour in J pint of rich brown gravy, add 1 pinch of salt, and boil until the gravy is thick. Pour another A pint of gravy in with the Sweetbreads, put the cover on the stewpan with