THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 485 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads Soups—continued. cut the flesh off the bones into nice equal-sized pieces. Break the bones into small pieces, put them in the Soup, boil it quickly for twenty minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Season the Soup with salt and pepper, return it to the saucepan with the pieces of partridge-meat, and leave it at the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, but without letting it boil again; then turn it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Blanch an equal quantity of bacon and smoked ham, drain them, and put them into a large saucepan with two partridges, two partially roasted legs of hare, two or three backs of roasted pheasant or chicken, three smoked sausages, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of lentils, a few fresh vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of dry Genoa mushrooms that have been soaked in water. Cover the above ingredients with broth, and when boiling, skim off all the fat, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents cook gently till done. When tender, take the meat out of the saucepan, strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, mix with it 1 wine- glassful of marsala wine, and boil it gently over a slow fire for fifteen minutes. Cut the fillets off the partridges, cut the sausages and lean bacon into small pieces, and put all into a soup-tureen; skim the fat off the Soup, pour it over the meat, and serve with a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Invalid's Digestive Soup.—Lay at the bottom of a stew- pan seven or eight slices of lean ham, over them a few slices of beef, over the beef some veal, together with some chicken, moor game, or partridge legs; put in also some salt, whole pepper, one clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and four or five cloves ; add 3oz. of butter, and let all this stew till it is nicely browned. Then add three small heads of celery washed and trimmed, three large peeled onions, two scraped and washed carrots, two peeled and washed turnips, a small bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig of lemon thyme, and a small bunch of winter savory, and fill up the stewpan with equal proportions of good beef stock and water. When both meat and vegetables are thoroughly done, strain the Soup through a sieve into a basin. Wash and trim three large leeks, peel and wash two rather large turnips, cut both turnips and leeks into pieces about 1 fin. long and about the thickness of macaroni, and fry them brown in a little butter or dripping. Wash and cut into shreds two cabbage lettuces, a head of celery, a head of endive, some sorrel and chervil, and stew them over a slow fire in a little butter; when they are done, lay them on a sieve to drain with the fried turnips and leeks; then put them into a soup-pot or a stewpan, pour over them the strained Soup, and put it over the fire; as soon as it boils, skim it, draw it to one side of the stove, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Cut the crumb of a French roll into round slices, brown them in the oven, put them into the tureen, and pour the Soup over them. Italian Soup (a l’ltalienne).—(1) After a cow-heel has been used for making jelly, cut the flesh off into small pieces. Put h teacupful of sago in a stewpan with water sufficient to cook it, and boil until dissolved. Take a sufficient quantity of clear stock to make the Soup, and place it in a saucepan over the fire until boiling. Warm the pieces of meat in the Soup, put the sago at the bottom of a soup-tureen with loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, pour the hot Soup over them, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (2) Peel some carrots, turnips, and leeks; thoroughly wash some cabbage and heads of celery, trimming off the outside leaves, &e., and boil them all' separately. When cooked, drain the vegetables, cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry them lightly over a slow fire. Chop some fowl’s livers, put them in with the vegetables, then pour in the desired quantity of stock, and boil it. Boil some macaroni, and when tender, drain, and put it into the Soup, adding some grated Parmesan cheese. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it. Soups—continued. (3) Peel and cut 21b. or 31b. of young carrots into very small squares, allow an equal quantity of marrow fat peas, and boil the vegetables separately in salted water; also boil about j^lb. of well-washed rice in salted water. When all the ingredients are tender, drain them well. Boil as much common stock, that has been well freed from fat, as will make the desired amount of Soup, mix with it plenty of tomato sauce and the above ingredients, and boil the whole for five minutes; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (4) Cut up all together into fine pieces two carrots, half a turnip, two leeks, a quarter of a cabbage, half an onion, and one stalk of celery, and steam them in 2oz. of butter for about ten minutes in a covered saucepan ; then moisten it with 3 pints of white broth, adding 1 table-spoonful of washed rice, a bouquet of sweet herbs, table- spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Boil well for half-an hour, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese separately for each person. (5) Put 1 pint each of marrow fat peas and chopped carrots into a saucepan with some water, and boil them till tender. When cooked, strain the water off the vege- tables, put in with them Alb. of washed and boiled rice, 1 teacupful of tomato sauce, and lqt. of stock. Stir the above mixture over the fire till boiling, then turn it into a soup-tureen, grate some Parmesan cheese over it, and serve at once. Jardiniere Soup (a la Jardiniere).—The same as for Julienne, only the vegetables are cut larger and in patterns (see Fig. 624) if preferred, and omit the cabbage. Add 1 handful of chiffonade five minutes before serving. A chiffonade is a mince of vegetables and sweet herbs, which are described under that heading. Jenny Lind’s Soup.—Wash 2oz. of the best pearl sago in several waters till the water poured from it is quite clear, and simmer it in 1 pint of water or stock till it is quite soft; then add to it gradually 4 pint of boiling cream. Take it from the fire, stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and lastly stir in lqt. of strong beef or veal stock. Jugged Soup.—Peel and slice one onion, grate one carrot, slice six tomatoes, and mix onion, carrot, and tomatoes with 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas. Peel about 111), of parboiled potatoes, cut them into slices, and put a layer of these at the bottom of an earthenware jar; lay two or three thin slices of streaky salt pork on this, cover over with some of the mixed vegetables, and on these a layer of raw rice, shaking in a little pepper and salt. Again put a layer of slices of potatoes, over them two or three slices of pork, a layer of mixed vegetables, and a layer of raw rice. It is an improvement to shake in with the pepper and salt a little mixed herbs. Pour over all this 2qts. of stock. Put the lid on the jar, fasten it down with a paste of Hour and water to keep it air-tight, set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it in a moderate oven for at least four hours. Julienne Soup (a la Julienne).—(1) Peel some carrots, onions, turnips, and leeks, and cut them into thin strips of an equal size and length, either straight or scalloped (see Fig. 625); cut some heads of celery into pieces the same size. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, place in the pre- pared vegetables, and toss them over a slow fire for a few minutes. Other vegetables may be added, such as cauli- flowers, asparagus, or peas, when in season. Pour in over