THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 445 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. a little stock. Put the cover on the pan, set it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the tongues are quite tender. Put them on a dish, pass the vegetables and liquor through a sieve over them, and serve with capers or gherkins for a garnish. Braised Sheep’s Tongues.—Well wash five or six Sheep’s Tongues, dust them over with salt and flour, put them into a saucepan with a little salt pork fat, add a couple of chopped onions, and brown them over the fire. Pour in sufficient stock or water to half cover them, add a little parsley, salt, and pepper to taste, cover over the pan, and cook for about two hours with hot ashes on the lid. Take them out, skin, and trim them. Put a pile of boiled spinach in the centre of a dish, place the tongues round, and serve with a garnish of fried pieces of bread cut in shapes. Braised Sheep’s Tongues with Lettuces.—Steep the tongues in warm water with a little flour in it, until the blood has soaked out of them, and blanch them; then put the tongues in a stewpan with a good braise, and cook them slowly. Wasli and blanch as many cabbage lettuces as there are tongxres, drain them as free as possible of water, open them and cut out the stalks, dust them over with small quantities of salt and pepper, and tie them in their original form. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the lettuces, moisten to height with broth, and stew them until tender. When cooked, peel the tongues, drain the lettuces, and squeeze them in a cloth to extract the grease. Arrange the tongues and lettuces alternately on a hot dish, pour a Spanish sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Sheep’s Tongues.—Put two or three Sheep’s Tongues into a basin, sprinkle them over with salt, and let them remain for a day or so. Mix in a basin 1 tea- spoonful of saltpetre, 1 table-spoonful of salt, half that quantity of bay-salt, and a little black pepper and allspice, Take out the tongues, drain them, put them into a jar, cover over with the salt pickle, let them remain for a couple of days, add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and let them remain for live days longer. Take them out, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for about two hours or until they are perfectly tender. Take them out, skin, and cut them in halves lengthwise; dip them first into warmed butter and then into breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and cook them until they are browned. Put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. If required to be eaten cold, they should be glazed and not dipped in butter and crumbs. Grilled Sheep’s Tongues.—Boil the required quantity of Sheep’s Tongues, skin them, and cut them into slices: spread over each a mixture of pepper, salt, mustard, and curry-powder, roll them up, fasten then with skewers, wrap them in paper, put them on a gridiron, over a clear ■fire, and grill them. Serve hot. Pickled Sheep’s Tongues.—Well wash and clean the re- quired quantity of Sheep’s Tongues, put them into a bowl of spring water, and leave them for half-an-hour. Make a mixture of lib. of salt, 4oz. of saltpetre, and 4oz. of treacle. Rub the tongues well with this, and leave them for a week or ten days, and they will then be ready for use. Sheep’s Tongues a la Macedoine.—Scald and skin a dozen Sheep’s Tongues, put them in a braising-pan over a few slices of vegetables and bacon, add a little stock, and braise Sheep—continued. them. Take them out when done, put them between two boards with a weight on the top, trim them when cold, and afterwards glaze them with their own liquor. Fill a border-mould with mashed baked potatoes, put it in the oven to dry, turn it out on to a dish, and arrange the tongues round it with the root ends on the top and the tips touching on the dish. Glaze the tongues with a paste- brush dipped in glaze, and set the dish at the oven-door for a few minutes. Fill the centre with finely-chopped cooked vegetables thickened with bechamel sauce (see Fig. 568), baste with melted glaze, and serve with brown sauce reduced with wine poured round. Sheep’s Tongues en Papillote.—Wash the tongues and blanch them until the skins can be easily removed, when peel them off. Put them in a stewpan, cover with nicely flavoured stock, and boil them gently until tender. Butter as many sheets of paper as there are tongues, and over each spread a mixture of finely-chopped mushrooms and sweet herbs that have been worked up in a lump of butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Drain the tongues, lay them on the pieces of paper, and wrap them up well, so that none of the seasoning can escape. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the tongues in the papers on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sheep’s Tongues a la Soubise.—Blanch the tongues in boiling water, and leave them for twenty-minutes. Line a stewpan with slices of carrots, turnips, and onions. Drain the tongues, put them on the vegetables, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour in 1 pint of broth. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and braise the contents for an hour. At the end of that time, take the tongues out and skin them; strain their cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, put in the tongues again, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Put about ‘2oz. of butter into a small saucepan, with two or three finely- chopped onions, and cook them lightly till tender ; then dust 1 table-spoonful of flour over them, season with i tea- spoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper, pour in \ pint of milk, and stir them over the fire till boiling. Move the sauce to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir them for a few minutes. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Arrange the tongues in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Sheep’s Tongues and Brains au Gratin.—Remove the tongues and brains from two sheep’s heads, wash the tongues thoroughly in salted water, and put the brains in a basin of cold water to soak. Put them all into a sauce- pan, cover them over with salted water, and boil for about two minutes. Take them all out, put the tongues into another saucepan with lqt. of water, and add two onions, one bay-leaf, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a very little saltpetre. Set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for three hours, or till they are so tender that they will hardly bear the touch of a fork. Leave them in the saucepan to cool; take them out, skin them, and let them get quite cold. Put the brains into a saucepan with a little rich stock to moisten, and boil quickly for ten minutes ; take them out, let them get cold, cut each lobe into slices, and cover them with egg and sifted breadcrumbs. Trim the tongues, cut each of them into four slices, dip them in egg, and cover them also with sifted breadcrumbs. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan on the fire, and as soon as it froths add the tongues and brains, and brown them well on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour round a little rich gravy, well flavoured with lemon-juice or mushrooms, and serve. Stewed Larded Sheep’s Tongues.—Put three Sheep’s Tongues into a saucepan of water, and boil them for about two hours; then take them out, skin, and lard them, and put them into a saucepan with a little gravy and a seasoning of mushrooms, shallot, parsley, salt, and pepper; place the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the tongues are quite tender. Put them on a dish, strain the liquor