600 THE ENCYCLOPjEHIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. garlic, butter it well, then lay the Tomatoes in it side bv side, the cut part upwards, and fill them with the breadcrumb mixture; put a small lump of butter on each half, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Arrange the Tomatoes on a hot dish, garnish them with fried paisley, and serve. Tomatoes a la Marseillaise.—Take six good-sized firm red Tomatoes, wipe, and cut them into halves through the sides. Place £ gill of sweet oil in a frying-pan, let it heat well, lay in it the Tomatoes on the sides which were cut, and cook briskly for one minute. Putter well a tin baking-dish, lay the Tomatoes in this on the uncooked sides, and season with £ pinch each of salt and pepper. Make a stuffing with the shallot, finely chopped, two cloves of crushed garlic, two hard-boiled eggs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, the same of parsley, two medium-sized finely-chopped anchovies, and loz. of butter. Mix well together in a bowl, and cover the tops of the Tomatoes with the stuffing, dividing it equally. Sprinkle a Fig. 801. Tomatoes k la Marseillaise. little fresh breadcrumbs over them, drop 3 or 4 drops of clarified flutter over each Tomato, and put them in a j very hot oven for eight minutes. Place them on a hot dish, and serve (see Fig. 801). Tomato-ancl-Artichoke Salad.—Prepare a mixture or dressing of olive oil, vinegar, chervil, tarragon, salt and pepper. Have ready some boiled artichokes, cut them in slices, using the underneath part only, and also cut off an equal number of slices of Tomatoes. Dip them into the dressing, arrange them in a salad-bowl, pour over the dressing, and serve. Tomatoes and Cauliflower.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and mix them over the fire ; then pour in £ pint of clear stock, and continue stirring until boiling. Put six or seven sliced Tomatoes in the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire. Trim off all the outside leaves of a firm white cauliflower, and cut off the stalk as close to the flower as possible. Put the cauliflower upside down in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt and a small lump of butter, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, lift the cauliflower out of the saucepan, and place it on a fine sieve to drain, being very careful not to break it. Beat the yolk of an egg with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, strain it, and Fig. 802. Tomatoes and Cauliflower. stir it in with the Tomatoes, moving the saucepan away from the fire. Turn the Tomatoes on to a hot dish, stand the cauliflower in the centre of them (see Fig. 802), and serve without delay. Tomato Chutney.—(1) Pick and wipe on a cloth 51b. of ripe Tomatoes, put them in an earthenware jar with 1 breakfast-cupful of salt and 4 pint of vinegar, cover the jar to exclude the air, place it in a saucepan of boiling Tomatoes—continued. water, and let it remain for six hours. Turn the contents of the jar out on to a sieve, and rub it through, taking care not to have any of the seeds or skin. Put 2oz. each of shred garlic and red chillies into a saucepan, add 2oz. of ginger also cut up small, and 21b. of sugar made into a syrup with lqt. of vinegar; add the Tomatoes, and bring the whole gently to the boil. Kemove the pan, let the chutney cool, put it into bottles, cork them down, and put them in a warm place until wanted. (2) Put one hundred large, ripe Tomatoes into a large pan with lqt. of vinegar, parboil them, remove the saucepan from the fire, and mix in 4oz. each of stoned raisins, sugar, and ground garlic, 7oz. each of ground mustard- seed and salt, and 8oz. of finely-sliced chillies. Let these stand for ten or twelve hours, boil slowly for twenty or thirty minutes, let the preparation get cold, put it into bottles, cork them down, and the chutney is then ready for use, and will keep good for a long time. (3) Skin the required quantity of Tomatoes, cut them in pieces, and remove the seeds and watery substance. Put what remains of the pulp into a basin, and mix with it half its quantity of finely-chopped onions, a little finely-chopped celery, a few green chillies, and salt to taste. Moisten the whole with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar, work the mixture until all the ingredients are veil incorporated, then turn it into small jars, and cork them tightly. (4) Peel tlie required number of Tomatoes, cut them imto halves or slices, remove the seeds, squeeze out all the juice, and pound the remainder to a pulp. Put it into a basin, and beat it up lightly with finely-chopped onion, chives, shallots, and some green chillies, seasoning with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar or lemon-juice. Put the chutney imto bottles, and in a few days’ time it will be ready for use. (5) Peel about two dozen ripe Tomatoes, cut them into slices, put them in a preserving-pan, and stew them. Peel, core, and chop eight or ten large apples, boil them in 1 pint of vinegar for a few minutes, then turn them with the vinegar in with the Tomatoes. Pound two heads of garlic, put them in with the other ingredients, adding also lib. of sultana raisins, Jib. of brown sugar, Jib. of mustard-seed, fourteen capsicums, and a small quantity of thinly-shred ginger. Let the above ingre- dients simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour; at the end of that time let them cool a little, then turn them into small glass bottles. The bottles must be kept tightly stoppered. ((j) Remove the stalks from fill), of ripe Tomatoes, and wipe the fruit over with a piece of dry flannel. A large earthenware or stone jar with a lid will be required. Put in the Tomatoes with 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of salt and \ pint of vinegar, put the lid on the jar, and solder round the edges with a stiff flour-and-water paste to keep it perfectly air-tight. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling gently for six hours. At the end of that time pass the pulp of the fruit through a sieve to remove all the skins and cores. Put 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in lqt. of vinegar, and boil it till reduced to a syrup ; then mix the Tomatoes with it, and add 2oz. each of chopped red chillies, garlic, and ginger. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir the con- tents until they come to the boil, then take it off. W hen the chutney is cold, turn it into bottles, and cork them tightly. It should be kept in a warm, dry place. Tomato Conserve.—Cut off the stalks and green part from 41b. or 51b. of sound Tomatoes, divide them into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with two onions, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil them, stirring at the same time until tender, then turn the pulp on to a fine hair sieve with a basin under- neath to catch the liquor as it runs through. When all the juice has drained from the Tomatoes, put it in the stewpan, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Pass the pulp through a sieve, but do not let the onions or bay-leaves go through, and mix it with the reduced liquor. Turn the conserve into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and tie down. Stand the bottles in a sauce'