TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 619 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. a hot dish, and serve with the juice of half a sound lemon squeezed over. Baked Trout with Truffles—(1) Scale and draw a large Trout, wipe it well, put it into a well-buttered shallow gratin dish, sprinkle it over with salt, add a bunch of parsley, surround the fish with truffle trimmings, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, put a piece of buttered paper over the whole, place the dish in the oven, cover it over, and cook until the fish is done and the liquor reduced to half its original quantity. Strain off the liquor into a saucepan, stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze, boil for a minute or two, add a thickening of butter well kneaded in flour, and boil for a few minutes longer. Chop up two or three truffles, place them round the Trout, pour the liquor through a sieve over the whole, and cook for ten minutes longer. Slip the Trout on to a dish, and arrange the chopped truffles round. Add a little anchovy butter to the liquor, mix in the juice of a lemon and a little finely-chopped parsley, pour it over the fish, and serve hot. (2) Scale a Trout weighing about 21b., draw it by the gills, wash it well, and wipe the inside dry with a cloth. Put four finely-chopped, fresh peeled truffles into a mortar, pound them well, mix in about a third of their bulk of soaked breadcrumbs and warmed butter, and sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Stuff the fish with this mixture, put it in a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle it with salt, baste it with butter, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for twelve minutes ; then pour in 1 wine- glassful of white wine, and a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and bake for a-quarter of-an-hour longer, by which time the fish should lie done. Take it out, and put it in a dish. Add a little more wine to the liquor, boil for one or two minutes, thicken with butter kneaded in flour, add two chopped truffles, boil for two minutes longer, remove the saucepan from the fire, and add another small lump of butter, the juice of one lemon, and a little chopped parsley. Pour the whole over the fish, and serve very hot. Boiled Trout.—(1) Clean and scale three or four large Trout, put them into a saucepan, pour over two breakfast- cupfuls of boiling vinegar, which will turn them blue, add an equal quantity of white wine, and pour over sufficient water to cover them. Add one onion stuck with cloves, one carrot, half a head of celery, four bay-leaves, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and sufficient salt to taste, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about fifteen minutes with the cover on. Take out the fish when done, drain them, put them on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with oil and vinegar, or any fish sauce, in a sauceboat. (2) Scale, clean, and draw the required number of Trout, wipe them on a cloth, put them into a saucepan, cover them over with stock and red wine in equal propor- tions, and boil them until done. Take them out, put them in a dish, pour over the liquor, and let them remain for one day. Take them out, drain, place them on a dish garnished with fried sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oil and vinegar should accompany them. (3) Clean and scale four or five middling-sized Trout, wipe them dry on a cloth, put them in a fish-kettle with sufficient boiling water to cover, and add 4 teacupful of vine- gar, a small piece of horseradish, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. Set the kettle on the fire, and boil for from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the fish are done, taking care that their skins do not burst by cooking too quickly. Take them out, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Clean, wash, and dry six Trout weighing about Jib. each, place them on a drainer in the fish-kettle with a pinch of salt, adding one sliced carrot, one sprig of thyme, and two bay-leaves, and moisten with \ wineglassful of white wine and 4 pint of water. Put the kettle on the stove, and let the contents simmer gently for five minutes after boiling; then drain, and serve on a dish garnished with parsley and boiled potatoes cut up into quarters (see Fig. 830), and 4 pint of shrimp sauce in a sauce-bowl. The fish •stock may he kept for further use. Trout—continued. (5) Well wash and clean three or four Trout, draw them through the gills, wipe them inwardly, and push the tails into their mouths. In the meantime half-fill a saucepan with water, add a little vinegar, a bay-leaf, a few slices of onion, spice, salt, and pepper to taste, and boil for a few minutes, so as to get the water incorporated with the flavours; then remove the pan from the fire and let the contents cool. Put in the fish, boil up on the fire, remove the saucepan to the side, and simmer for a few minutes. Take out the fish, drain them well, give them several coatings of half-set fish jelly, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley should be used for garnish. Fig. 830. Boiled Trout. (6) Remove the inside from five or six Trout, pulling it through the gills, and let them remain with their scales and the slime on them. Cut in slices an onion, a carrot, and a root of celery, put them into a saucepan with a little chopped parsley and sufficient butter to moisten, and brown them well: then pour in l pint of port wine, and lqt. of consomme or fish broth; sprinkle in salt to taste, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and a few cloves and peppercorns, and boil for about fifteen minutes, by which time the liquor should be reduced to one-tliird its original quantity. Strain it into another saucepan, put it on the tire, and when it is boiling put in the Trout and boil well for a few minutes; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for five or six minutes. Take out the Trout, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with melted butter in a sauceboat. (7) Clean and draw a couple of Trout, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle, cover them over with rich soup or stock, and add a seasoning' of half a bay-leaf, an onion with four cloves stuck in it, a few bruised peppercorns, and a little salt, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine. Place the kettle on the fire, boil for a minute or two, remove it to the side, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Take out the fish when done, remove the upper skin, put them on a dish, and serve (8) Select if possible two Trout about 1 foot in length, and one about 4in. longer, take out the gills, removing the entrails at the same place, wash them well, and dry them on a cloth. Sprinkle them well with salt, and let them stand for an hour; then wash them well to remove the salt, dry them, tie them up, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle, sprinkle them over with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, pour a little boiling vinegar over them, put in a large lump of butter, and add sufficient fish broth to cover them. Bring the liquor to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes. Put the fish when done on a dish, the two smaller ones outside the larger one, untying them in so doing, and serve with caper sauce and sweet oil. They do not require to be scaled when cooked in this way, as pouring the boiling vinegar over them will have the effect of colouring them as desired. Broiled Trout.—(1) Clean a Trout, wipe it dry, tie it up into shape, cover it over with 1 table-spoonful of salt mixed up with 4oz. of butter, and let it remain for two or three minutes ; then put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it gently for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Chop up a well-washed and boned anchovy, mix it up with a little melted butter in a saucepan, add 1 table-spoonful of capers, 1 dessert spoonful of vinegar, and a little each of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Place the Trout when done on a dish; boil the sauce for two or three minutes, pour it over, and serve at once. (2) Draw and scale two Trout, wash them well, wipe them dry, score them on either side, put them on a dish, sprinkle