THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 450 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Shrimps—continued. dry them on a towel (taking care not to crush the leaves); prill the leaves apart and cut them into moderate-sized pieces. Put the lettuce in a salad-bowl, turn the Shrimps out of the tin, remove any pieces of shell, and pile them high in the centre of the bowl on the top of the lettuce. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, pour in gradually 1 teacupful of salad-oil, and heat them to a thick cream; then pour in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, season with about 1 saltspoonful of white pepper, and continue the heating until all the ingredients are well blended. Pour the dress- ing over the Shrimps, garnish them with a few of the youngest leaves of the lettuce, which should have been reserved for the purpose, and serve without delay. Shrimp Sandwiches.—Pick \ pint of Shrimps, put them in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, season with a little salt and cayenne pepper, and pound them to a paste; moisten it with a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Cut some rather thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread half of them with the paste, fold the remaining half over these, and press them lightly together. Cut the sandwiches into fingers or quarters, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Shrimp Sauce.—(1) Put 1 pint each of white poivrade sauce and butter sauce into a saucepan, and boil them till some- what reduced. Thicken the sauce with 2oz. of lobster butter. Pick I b pints of Shrimps, put them into the sauce with a little lemon-juice, stir the sauce by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then serve it. (2) Make about J pint of butter sauce, and while it is in the saucepan mix with it 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small lump of lobster butter, and b saltspoonful of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire till the butter has dissolved, then put in 1 teacupful of picked Shrimps. Serve the sauce while hot. (3) Pick the meat out of the tails of 1 pint of Shrimps; put the trimmings in a mortar with loz. of butter and the juice of a lemon, and pound them till smooth; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with 1 pint of milk in a small stewpan, put in 3oz. of butter in small bits, season to taste until salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. Put in the tails of the Shrimps with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, boil them for two or three minutes, then stir in the pounded Shrimps with b teacupful of cream; the sauce is then ready for serving. (4) Pick 1 pint of Shrimps out of their shells, put them into 1 pint of butter sauce, mix in a small quantity of cream, let them boil up, add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve in a sauce-tureen. (5) Tinned Shrimps.—Put a lump of butter the size of an egg and 1 table-spoonful of Hour into a saucepan and stir them over the fire till the butter begins to bubble, then mix in 1 pint of clear broth and stir till thick. Drop the yolk of one egg into the sauce and beat it, then add a small piece of butter and stir it till melted; after the egg is added the sauce should not be allowed to boil. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Add a tin of preserved Shrimps to the sauce, stir it for a few minutes, then serve. Shrimp Soup.—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the meat of Shrimps into a mortar and pound them well, adding gra- dually the strained juice of half a lemon and a lump of butter the weight of the Shrimps. Pound well until perfectly smooth, rub the whole through a fine sieve, and season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Put a lum]j of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a thicken- ing of flour, and stir well, but without allowing it to obtain too much colour; put in the Shrimp paste, together with an equal bulk of breadcrumbs soaked in stock, pour in sufficient rich stock to give the soup the required con- sistency, stir well until it boils, remove the pan from the fire, skim off all the fat, pass it through a sieve into another saucepan, rubbing through as much as possible, boil up once more, remove the pan from the fire, add a liaison of the yolk of egg beaten up with cream or milk, pour the soup) into a tureen, and serve immediately. Toasted pieces of bread should be floated in the soup. Shrimps—continued. (2) Shell H- pints of Shrimps and put them into a mortar with Jib. of butter, and pound them. Boil the shells in a little more than 1 teacupful of vinegar and water. Put the pounded Shrimps into a saucepan with lqt. of fish stock, two penny rolls, and the vinegar strained in which the shells have been boiled. Let the soup) simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, but do not let it boil. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and put in a few peeled whole Shrimps. When on the point of boiling, turn the soup into a hot soup turcen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Shrimp Toast.—(1) Fry some slices of crumb of bread in butter, then cut them into rounds with a plain 2in. cutter. When cold, mask the fried rounds with Shrimp butter, arrange a star of trimmed Shrimp’s tails on the top of each, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre. Arrange the toast on a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 573), and serve. (2) Shell the Shrimps, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste; mix with it 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, a small lump of fresh butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Toast some slices of bread, butter them while hot, and spread with the Shrimp paste. Put the toast on a hot dish, and serve. Shrimp toast prepared in the above way makes a very tasty disli for breakfast or luncheon. (3) Peel lqt. of Shrimps ; put the heads in a saucepan with 1 b breakfast-cupfuls of water and boil for fifteen minutes. Put about ljoz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till melted and well mixed; then strain in gradually the above liquor in which the heads were boiled, and season the sauce with cayenne. When on the point of boiling, put the Shrimps in with the sauce. Cut a slice of bread I Jin. thick from the bottom of a loaf, scoop it out slightly in the centre, and fry till nicely browned in clarified butter. Beat two yolks of eggs with a little milk, pour them gradually in with the sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let the sauce boil again, and season with cayenne pepper. Pour the above mixture on to the bread, squeeze a little lemon juice over it, and serve. (4) Peel b pint of Shrimps, put a quarter of them into a mortar, and pound to a paste; then mix \ teacupful of fresh butter with it. Make three or four thin slices of toast and spread them with the paste. Put b teacupful of fresh butter into a frying-pan with 1 teacupful of picked Shrimps, and fry them. Trim the edges neatly round the toast, put it on a hot dish, pile the fried Shrimps on it, and serve while hot. (5) Pick the meat out of the shells of lqt. of fine Shrimps, and put it into a mortar with loz. of butter and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream; bone an anchovy, wash and chop it, and put it in the mortar with the Shrimps; season to taste with pepper, and pound the whole till quite smooth. Cut some rounds of bread with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter and toast them, then butter them. Mix some finely-chopped watercress with the above paste, and spread a layer of it over each round of toast; strew grated breadcrumb over the tops, and brown them in a brisk oven. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, put the pieces of toast on it, arrange some well-washed sprays of watercress neatly round them, and serve. (6) Pick the shells off 1 pint of very fresh Shrimps. Cut about one dozen rounds of bread 2in. in diameter and Jin. in thickness; melt a lump of butter in a stewpan,