478 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred tot see under their special heads. Souffles—continued. it rises 2in. higher than the rim of the dish, pour in the mixture, and pack it in pounded ice and salt for about three hours. When ready, remove the paper from the dish, dust the Souffle over with macaroon biscuit powder, and serve it. Imperial Souffle.—Slightly warm tlb. of butter, beat it till creamy, then beat in gradually the yolks of ten eggs anti h pint of cream. Blanch and cut into thin strips 2oz. of almonds, and finely grate the peel of half a lemon; mix them with 1 teacupful of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then pour in slowly the beaten mixture, stirring it at the same time to keep it smooth. Butter the interior of a Souffle-mould, strew in breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not stick to the butter. Pour Fig. 619. Imperial Souffle with Biscuits or Confectionery. the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Sou (lie on a stand garnished with sweet biscuits or confectionery (see Fig. 619). Milan Souffle.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of caster sugar, and whip them over a slow fire till thick, but do not let them boil. Mix with the eggs the juice and grated peel of four lemons, and let them stand till cold. Add nearly h pint of whipped cream in which loz. of isinglass has been dissolved. Serve the Souffle directly it is ready, piling round it in the dish the well whipped whites of the six eggs, and a little whipped cream. Souffle d. la Paysanne.—Prepare a chestnut puree, and mix with it a little cream. Put a puree of apples in the bottom of a dish, place the chestnut puree on the top, and cover all with white of egg Italian meringue. Bake the Souffle in the oven till the meringue is slightly coloured. When cooked, the Souffle should be served at once. Souffles Fritters.—(1) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan, boil it up, and add 2oz. of butter or lard ; when the latter is dissolved put in 4oz. of flour in one lump, and not sprinkled, and work the paste with a spoon until it is smooth and cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and add five eggs, beating one well in before another is added, and working the paste well against the sides of the saucepan. Have ready a deep frying-pan with a good supply of boiling fat in it, and drop in the mixture in lumps about the size of an egg; as soon as they swell and become hollow and light, take them out, drain, put them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, and serve. Only a few of them should be cooked at a time, as they require a lot of room to swell. (2) Pour 1 breakfast cupful of water into a saucepan on the fire, add J toz. each of crushed loaf sugar and butter, and a little grated lemon rind. When the liquor boils, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and mix in 4oz. of flour. Put the pan back again on the fire, stir well Souffles—continued. while the mixture boils for a few minutes, and by this time it should be quite stiff. Turn it out into a basin, and when it is cool but not cold, work in three eggs, beating one well in for about four minutes before another is added. Set the basin in a rather warm place, and let it remain for three hours or so. Drop the paste from a teaspoon, half filling it, into a frying-pan of boiling fat, frying a few of the lumps at a time; when they are swollen and light, take them out, drain, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with caster sugar sprinkled over them. The teaspoon should be dipped each time in the boiling fat, as it assists the paste to fall from it. Spanish Souffle.—Make a round sponge cake about 4in. in height, cut it when cold into thin slices, mask them, with the exception of the top one, with any kind of jam, soak each one with lemon or other fruit syrup, or milk or cream, and replace them in their original positions. Spread over the sides the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of sugar, sprinkle over a little more sugar, and set it in a slow oven to harden, taking care that, while it may become yellow, it must not be allowed to get brown. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with \ table-spoonful of sugar and a little of any kind of flavouring, and pour over 1 teacupful of boiling milk, stirring all the while; put this into a saucepan on the fire, and stir until it thickens. Put the Souffl6 on a dish, pour round the custard, and serve either hot or cold, as desired. York Souffle.—Beat five eggs with Mb. of caster sugar, then mix with them the juice and grated peel of two lemons. Melt 2oz. of butter, and stir it in with the above ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a rich puff paste, pour the above mixture into it, and bake it. When cooked, serve the Souffle at once. Zephyr Souffles.—Put the whites of two eggs and |lb. of caster sugar into a sugar-boiler, and whisk them over a very slow fire till frothy; then put in |lb. of finely- chopped almonds and a few drops of essence of pepper- mint. Spread some sheets of white wafer-paper upon some baking-tins, and lay on them the above mixture in small equal quantities, using a dessert spoon for the purpose, and leaving a small space between each. Bake the zephyrs in a moderate oven till very lightly coloured. SOUPS (Fr. Potages; Ger. Suppen).—Some observa- tions have been made under the headings Broth and Consomme, showing the distinction that may be drawn between these two and Soups, a classification that is nevertheless almost impossible. Supposing a broth to be a light kind of liquid food, more famous for its delicate flavour than for nutritive qualities, consomme would be broth double-distilled, so to speak, and considerably added to and strengthened by other foods, which generally impart to it a name. Soup is the happy medium, neither one nor the other, and yet both, and consequently highly prized by heavy eaters. Kettner writes of Soup, “ There has been a good deal of needless controversy about Soup ’’—(under this name, be it observed, Kettner appears to class all manner of savoury liquid foods, including broths and consommes)— “ some people finding in it a dinner of itself, and some refusing it as a weak wash fit only for babies and invalids. Grimod de la Reyniere said that Soup is to a dinner what a portico is to a palace, or an overture to an opera. It is not only the commencement of the feast, but should give an idea of what is to follow.” Another epicure, no less than the Marquis de Cussy, dubs Soup a sort of preface to the dinner, and expresses his opinion that a good work can do without a preface. Undoubtedly the majority of opinions would be against the Marquis, for with the Soup not only does the feast begin, but the stomach receives a little encouraging stimulation, which prepares it for the more elaborate task about to follow. Admitting this, Kettner continues, “ It is quite true, however, that to serve a purpose (stomach stimulating) we do not require much weight of matter, and the plain