TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 533 Suet—continued. Suet Milk for Invalids.—Skin loz. of fresh beef-suet, cut it into extremely line shavings, and put it into a sauce- pan over the fire in 1 pint of milk with a piece of cinna- mon and lemon-peel in it; let it dissolve very slowly, and when quite melted take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon and sweeten to taste with powdered white sugar. This drink must be taken warm. SUGAR and SUGAR-WORKING (Fr. Sucre; Ger. Zucker ; Hal. Zucchero ; Sp. Azucan).—In an article on Sugar written for cooks or confectioners the source from which the Sugar is obtained would appear to be a matter of very little interest to them, provided it is of suitable quality. Before the introduction of Sugar into England the only sweetener available was honey, but in one form or another Sugar has been brought to this country for so many years that the use of honey has been almost entirely superseded. At one time it was the perquisite of the apothecary to sell Sugar, together with his spices and other medicaments, which would lead one to suppose that neither Sugar nor spice was regarded as a domestic necessity. Times have changed, and Sugar, from whatever source it may be obtained, is now numbered amongst the most important of our culinary ingredients. Until recently our supplies of Sugar came in a raw state from the West Indies, South America, and the Mauritius, and it was formerly believed that only one sort of Sugar was obtainable for commercial purposes. Now we are in receipt of large consignments of Sugar from the Continent pre- pared chiefly from the white beet. From whichever source it may be derived, after its “ refining” it is simply Sugar, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to detect any distinction of source. Thus we have Beet Sugar, Cane Sugar, Maple Sugar, Melon Sugar, Milk Sugar, Palm Sugar, Sorghum Sugar, and Maize Sugar, all of one quality, and Starch Sugar, with other glucoses of a low sweetening power, and there- fore not much used, excepting for purposes of doubtful economy. The art of Sugar-refining, as practised in this and other countries, is far too elaborate and extensive to find a place in this Encyclopaedia. It will be sufficient for our purpose to explain that the five conditions in which it is familiar to us are raw, moist, crystallised, loaf, and powdered as prepared for icing and piping. With these Sugars more or less glucose is occasionally added; but by purchasing the best of the best makers, the quality should be ensured. At one time Sugar was very liable to adulterations: chalk, plaster, sand, potato-flour, and other starchy matters being of frequent occurrence. Competition and a stringent Adulteration Act have, however, reduced such additions almost to a nullity. Common raw, or “ foots ” Sugar, as it is called, containing a large proportion of molasses, finds its way occasionally into the kitchen, but cannot be recommended for any purpose, as it is almost always infested by an insect called the Sugar-Mite (Acarus Sacchari) which disappears in the process of refining. Publicans use this foots Sugar for reducing black or cheap beers. Amongst what may be termed “ fancy ” Sugars the famous American Maple Sugar ranks high. It is obtained from the juice of the Maple-tree, and Is much used for making confectionery. Melon Sugar, obtained from the juice of the melon, is also of American production; and Palm Sugar, or Sugar made from the juice of certain palms, is greatly prized in the East. The.Sugar of commerce, as indicated above, is classified as white, granulated, loaf, and raw, of which the former may be considered the most highly refined, being some- times sold in the form of a powder as “ caster Sugar,” or still more finely powdered, as “ icing Sugar,” a Sugar used by confectioners for ornamentation. Loaf Sugar, so-called from the conical loaf shapes into which it is moulded, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, S, Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. has to be broken up for domestic use, and then becomes more properly what is termed “ lump Sugar.” A process by which this Sugar is moulded into uniform-sized lumps or “ cubes ” seems to be rapidly gaining favour. Loaf Sugar has to be broken up by the grocer, and is especially liable to partial conversion into Sugar “ dust.” As this dust may be used in place of caster Sugar the stock of lump Sugar should be stored in a tin with a perforated Fig. 693. Sugar-box (Adams and Son). bottom, under which there should be a drawer (see Fig. 693). In this way the lump Sugar is kept clean and free from flies, and a very useful Sugar dust is collected at the same time. It is useful to the cook at times to have coloured and flavoured Sugars at hand for the construction of sweet- meats. They may be prepared as follow: Coloured Sugars.—Bub the required quantity of powdered Sugar through a fine sieve on to a sheet of paper, turn it into a round-bottomed pan, set on the stove to warm, stir it well with a whisk, then add whatever colouring is required, and stir well until the Sugar is nearly dry; turn it out, and it is ready for use. A list of harmless colouring in- gredients will be found under Colourings. Flavoured Sugars.—Instead of using colourings use flavour- ing essences, sometimes colourings being used as well, as rose-pink for rose flavouring, lemon-yellow for lemon flavouring, and so on, proceeding the same as for Coloured Sugars. Sugar forms a very important part in the nourishment of the body, and contributes in a marked degree to the enjoyments of life. It enters into a large number of the foods described in the pages of this Encyclopedia. Continental cooks use the terms Sweets and Sweetmeats in their most extended sense, including cakes, jellies, preserves, and all kinds of bonbons, ices, compotes, and other entremets. The following article and receipts refer almost exclu- sively to the sweets and sweetmeats prepared from Sugar, flavoured, coloured, and so manufactured as to produce an enormous variety of sweet delicacies. When subjected to heat, with more or less moisture, Sugar undergoes some remarkable changes which render it amenable to so many purposes and uses that its manipulation, elaboration, and application have assumed all the characteristics of high art. Sugar-Boiling.—This being the foundation of Sugar- working, the confectioner must first perfect himself in the changes that take place in Sugar at different degrees of heat. The expressions, “ boil to the crack,” “ to the pearl,” “ to the thread,” “ to the blow,” &c., must be thoroughly understood, and a simple method of detecting these conditions learned by heart. Before explaining the “ degrees ” of Sugar-boiling, it will be desirable to describe suitable vessels for holding the Sugar, and stoves for supplying the heat. Sugar- tees, iSee., referred to, see under their special heads.