659 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Turkeys—continued. Turkey Giblets au Brochettes.—Remove the gall from the livers of two or three Turkeys, and cut them into moderate- sized squares; split the hearts in two, open and empty the crops, and wash them well in warm water. Run a thread through the crops, put them into a saucepan with some stock, and boil them for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Drain the crops, divide them and trim oft' the hard skin, and cut them into the same sized pieces as the livers. Season the giblets with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, baste them with a small quantity of oil, and mix with them the same quantity of thin squares of bacon as there are crop and liver squares. File the meat on skewers in alternate order, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them. When nicely browned, put the skewers of giblets on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve them. Turkey Giblets a la Chipolata.—Thoroughly wash and clean some Turkey giblets, then remove the livers, and scald the rest. Put Jib. pf streaky bacon, cut into small pieces, into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and heat it over the fire for a few minutes ; then put in the giblets, season with salt and pepper, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the fat off the giblets, dredge a small quantity of flour over, pour in gradually suilicient broth to cover them, and stir over the fire till boiling; then draw the stewpan a little to the side, and keep the contents simmering. Peel twenty each of small carrots, turnips, and onions, blanch them, and cut them into balls with a vegetable-cutter. In an hour’s time, put the vegetables into the stewpan, with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, half-a-dozen peppercorns, three or four cloves, and a little under 1 wineglassful of cognac ; put some hot ashes on the lid, and finish cooking the contents. Prepare about fifteen small sausages with some chopped onions and gourds; blanch the Turkey livers, and cut them into small pieces. Add the sausages and the livers to the stew half-an-hour before removing it from the lire, and boil them. When cooked, turn the stew into a hot dish, and serve. Turkey Giblet Pie.—Thoroughly clean the giblets of two Turkeys, minus the livers, and blanch them for live minutes ; then drain and trim them. Put Jib. of streaky bacon cut in small pieces into a stewpan with a lump of butter, put in the giblets, sprinkle a little chopped onion over them, season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a slow fire for half-an-hour, turning them about constantly. At the end of that time, pour 1 wineglassful of white wine in with the giblets, and boil till it has evaporated. Put some thin slices of beef at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put in the giblets; blanch the livers, add them, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley. Pour about J pint of broth into the stewpan that the giblets were fried in, boil it for five minutes, and skim it; work l table-spoon- ful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of Hour, put it in the broth, and stir it over the fire till thick. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve over the giblets. Grease the edges of the dish with a little butter, line it with a strip of puff paste, moisten it with a little water, cover the meat with a Hat of paste, trim and press the edges together, and notch them round with a knife. Make a hole in the top of the paste cover, ornament it with a design of leaves in paste, then put the pie in a slack oven. In fifteen minutes’ time put a sheet of paper over the pie and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on another dish, and serve. Turkey Giblet Soup.—Thoroughly clean the giblets of two Turkeys—necks, pinions, and gizzards—blanch them in boiling water, and cut them into moderate-sized pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, one onion, one carrot, some trimmings of raw ham, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and fry them over a moderate fire till well set; then dredge in a small quantity of flour, and fry them for a few minutes longer; then stir in gradually 3 pints of broth and h pint of white wine. Continue stirring the liquid till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the giblets are cooked. Cut the red part of two carrots, Turkeys—continued. one turnip, and a piece of celery-root into small cubes, blanch, and drain them, put them in a saucepan with a little broth, and let them simmer gently till tender. When the meat is done, take it out of the liquor with a skimmer, trim it, and put it in with the vegetables. Strain the cooking-liquor of the vegetables and giblets through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, add A tumblerful of Madeira and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and boil it for fifteen minutes. Put the meat and vegetables into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. Turkey Liver Cheese.—Remove the gall from about eight Turkey’s livers, cut them into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with half their quantity of bacon cut into small thin squares, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few parsley- leaves, some finely-chopped mushrooms, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped shallots ; season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a quick fire. Pour in 1J wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and boil it quickly till reduced. Take the frying- pan off the fire, and leave the livers till cool. Put the livers in a mortar with a third of their quantity of panada, pound them, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and break into it one whole egg; then add gradually seven or eight yolks, and work it well with a wooden spoon. Mix a small quantity of melted glaze with the forcemeat and 3 table-spoonfuls of truffles, cut into small squares. Rutter a cylinder-mould, fill it with the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water to half its height, put the lid on the saucepan with some live embers on it, and let the water simmer gently for three-quarters-of an-hour. When the mixture is firm to the touch, take the saucepan right oft' the fire, and leave the mould in the water for three-quarters-of-an-hour ; then take it out, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a hot dish. Pour some brown sauce, that has been reduced with 1 wineglassful of white wine, round the pain, and serve it. TURKISH CAKES.—See Cakes. TURKISH CROQUETTES.—.See Croquettes. TURKISH PILAU.—See Pilau. TURKISH SHERBET.—See Sherbet. TURKISH WINES.—Very few of the grapes grown in Turkey are converted into wine, wine-making being contrary to the doctrines of the Koran. They are there- fore preferred as a table-fruit. TURMERIC.-—The root or root-stock of a Cingalese plant (Curcuma longa). Externally it is of a grayish colour, but internally a deep rich yellow, with a slight aromatic smell and a bitterish acrid taste. When dried and powdered, it forms an ingredient of curry powder. TURNING.—A term used in cookery applying to a plan of cutting vegetables into ornamental shapes, such as olives, dice, corks, discs, &c. With a sharp knife and a little practice this is easily performed, something depending Fig. 904. Position of Hands in Turning. upon the position of the hands (see Fig. 904) and the sharpness of the knife that is used. Some cooks prefer to use knives that are specially made for the purpose, but those who are expert are content with the smallest sized For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 U 2