THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 633 Trussing—continued. size, with broad, flat, spear-shaped points, and round shafts. Some very large iron skewers (see Fig. 863), a foot or so long, are also necessary for transfixing large joints, such as rounds of beef; the inside roll is thus kept in its place, instead of sliding out as the joint stiffens in cooking. It is well to have a flour-dredger (see Fig. 866) Fig. 865. Fish-scissors. for “ doughing ” poultry handy, unless the cook possesses a flour-mop (see Fig. 864), which is merely an exaggerated tassel or bundle of soft strong cord tied round tightly to form a handle. With these and plenty of string the cook is prepared to truss anything that comes to hand. through the snout, tail, and under-jaw. When cooked, the skewer or pin may be withdrawn without altering the circular position of the fish. The tail may be passed through the eyes by making a large hole In the head, The mouth can be kept open, if really desired, by stuffing something between the jaws before cooking. There is a mode of Trussing a large eel so that it shall, when cooked, resemble a serpent (see Fig. 868). This can be done by tying the coils together and transfixing the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. tying a piece of string round the tail, and pulling it through the hole. The tail will remain there, but is not so pleasing to the sight as when in the mouth. A fish Fig. 868. Boiled Eel with Montpellier Butter. bent into the shape of a letter S may he secured either by a long skewer passing through the head, middle, and tail (see Fig. 870), or by tying (see Fig. 871), the latter for preference. This is a very pretty style of Trussing a fish. Besides the details already given, there are numerous styles of Trussing that require special description, and these can be better and more intelligibly treated under the collective classifications of Fish, Animals, and Birds. These will include all sorts of poultry and game. Fish.—Very few words will suffice for this sub-heading, beyond what has already been said. The Trussing of whit- ing (see Fig. 867) is effected by passing the tail between the jaws and pinning it in that position by a skewer passed Fig. 869. Fish Stuffed and Sewn up for Cooking (New Method). Sometimes it is advisable to truss the heads of large fish, so that they will set firm when on the dish ; and some cooks like to gag the mouth open to show the tongue and teeth of those fish that have them. Neither system is of much importance, there being no reason for Trussing, provided the rate of cooking is kept within bounds. Fig. 867. Whiting Trussed, Fig. 870. Fish Trussed by Skewer.