593 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Toffy—continued. and beat it into the butter. Continue beating till the mixture is quite light and the sugar completely dissolved. Pour it into a pan, wiping the edges carefully with a damp cloth or sponge, lit the lid on the pan, set it over a mo- derate fire, and let it cook gently till it begins to thicken. Stir into it then li teaspoonful of essence of lemon or vanilla. Put a little of the Toffy into cold water to try if it is brittle; if it is, pour it on a buttered slab or dish, let it get quite cold, and then break it into pieces of a con- venient size; lay them on oiled paper and keep them in a cool place. (2) Put 3oz. of butter into a small lined pan and place it over the fire; when it has dissolved, put in lib. of brown sugar and stir them for a quarter of-an-hour, or until a small portion, when tried between the teeth, after having been dropped into cold water, will break without sticking to them. Pour it out at once into a buttered shallow tin. The grated rind of a lemon or 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, added when the Toffy is about half done, is a great improvement. (3) Warm a pan and rub it over with butter; put in lib. of brown sugar with 3 table-spoonfuls of water, and stir it over a slow fire until boiled to a smooth thick syrup, then put in Jib. of butter broken into small pieces, and stir it well. Try the syrup occasionally by dropping a little of it on a plate, and when it becomes hard and leaves the plate clean it is done enough. Butter a shallow tin, and pour the Toffy in it about 1-in. thick. Flavour it with essence of lemon if liked. When partly cold, mark it across into the size required with the back of a knife, and when quite cold break them asunder in the places marked. (4) Put 101b. of lump sugar broken up small and 41b. of raw or moist sugar into a copper sugar-pan; set it on the fire, boil it to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), remove the pan from the fire, pour in 21b. of melted butter and a little flavouring of essence of lemon, boil up again, turn it out into a frame on an oiled slab, let it cool, and mark it into shapes. When cold, break into pieces and pack away in tins or boxes. The quality of the Toffy depends upon the amount of butter used. The lemon flavouring may be omitted if objected to. Indian Toffy.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, and stir in gradually an equal weight of sifted flour. Fry until lightly browned, then add gradually 4oz. each of sultana raisins and blanched almonds, and lastly a simple thick syrup made with 4oz. of sugar. Continue to stir over the fire until cooked, turn it into buttered moulds or shapes, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Sponge Toffy.—(1) Mix together Jib. each of molasses and brown sugar, J teaspoonful of gelatine dissolved in J tea- cupful of hot water, 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and h teacupful of cold water. Let all this stand till the sugar is completely dissolved, then put it in a pan over a moderate fire, cover the pan, and let the contents boil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it is quite brittle. Stir into it then 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dis- solved in a little hot water; a little vanilla, lemon, or any other flavouring may also be added. Take the pan from the fire, pour the Toffy on a well-oiled slab, and let it cool. (2) Pour f teacupful of cold water over 1 til), of sugar in a pan, let it stand for half-an-hour, then put it over a moderate fire, and let it boil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it will be brittle. Stir in then 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, and pour it immediately into buttered tins. A layer of grated cocoanut may be added if desired; let it stand till cool, then cut it into squares. (3) Mix well together in a pan 21b. each of molasses and brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 4 pint of cold water, and let it stand till the sugar is quite dis- solved : stir it well, and put it over the fire. Boil it till a little tried in cold water is brittle. Stir in then 1 dessert- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 dessert- spoonful of hot water, and pour it out at once on a well- oiled slab. Let it cool, and then cut it into square pieces. White Toffy.—Put 21b. of moist sugar into a preserving- pan with k teacupful of water and 1 teaspoonful of citric Toffy —continued. • acid. Place the pan over the fire, and boil the contents for half-an-hour, keeping them well stirred with a wooden spoon. Soak 2oz. of gelatine in cold water, then put it in with the syrup, and continue boiling and stirring until reduced to a gummy thickness. Pour the Toffy out on to a board that lias been damped with water, and draw it backwards and forwards with a spoon until it is milk white and nearly cold. Cut it into fancy shapes, and put them on a dish until cold and dry. This Toffy will keep for a length of time in tins without getting sticky. TOGUS BREAD.—See Bread. TOKAY.—The chief of the Hungarian wines, which has been praised by epicure and poet. Imperial Tokay— a wine fit for an Emperor. According to Simmonds it is made from over-ripe grapes, carefully picked, piled together in tubs pierced at the bottoms with holes, from which the mere weight of the grapes upon one another causes a thick syrup to drop slowly without other pres- sure. This thick syrup is kept from five to thirty years in wood before bottling, and then a considerable time longer in bottle, undergoing meanwhile a slow alcoholic fermentation. The colour of Tokay is silvery opal, for which reason it is sold in white glass bottles. It is pungent, soft, and not over sweet, with a peculiar earthy flavour. See Wines. TOMATOES (IV. Tomates ; Ger. Liebesapfel; Sp. Tomates).—There is a botanical order of plants known as Solanacese, to which the potato, deadly nightshade, and Tomato belong, besides numerous other very well-known plants, yielding a most remarkable assortment of poisonous and edible fruits. The Tomato (Lycopersicum esculentum) is called also in France, Love Apple, and in Germany, Apple of Paradise, the former name suggesting that it was beloved of Yenus, and the latter attributing to it the downfall of our first parents. It is a native of the warm parts of America, but has long been grown in this and other countries, having been introduced as early as the beginning of the sixteenth century. Several varieties are known to liorti- Fig. 792. Ham Green Favourite Tomato. culturists, differing in size, shape, and colour (red or yellow), those of the cherry and pear shapes being regarded by botanists as distinct. The common Tomato bears a large, irregularly-shaped furrowed fruit, this irregularity sometimes being due, in a measure, to two or more flowers producing one fruit between them. They grow to a large size, and lose much of their irregularity of form by cultivation, as shown by the highly improved For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Q