THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 503 bor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Spinach—coni inued. longer, taking great care not to let it 1 toil; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried lightly in butter. Spinach Tart.—(1) Pick the Spinach off the stalks, wash it in plenty of water, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave for live minutes; then drain and finely chop it. Butter a deep circular baking-dish, line it with puff paste at five turns, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then lay the Spinach on the top. Put four eggs in a basin with ilb. of finely-grated cheese and beat them well together. Turn the mixture over the Spinach, and put it into a quick oven. When nicely browned, cut the pastry across in four, and serve it. (2) Thoroughly wash the Spinach, and cook it in boil- ing water; when tender, drain all the moisture off, and chop it finely. Put the Spinach in a saucepan with a lump of butter, some sugar, 2oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, and 1 pinch of salt, and stir over the fire till they form a paste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with a rich short paste, and turn the Spinach mixture into it, smoothing it carefully over the surface. Bake the tart in a quick oven till the paste is cooked. When ready, sprinkle caster sugar over the top, and serve. Spinach. Toasts.—Pick and wash some Spinach, boil it for fifteen minutes, drain it in a colander squeezing the water well out, put it into a mortar, and pound together with two hard biscuits soaked in cre.un, the yolks of four hard- boiled eggs, the yolks of three raw eggs, 3 or 4 table- Fig. 639. Spinach Toasts. spoonfuls of apple marmalade, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When well mixed and pounded to a paste put it into a dish or basin and mix with it a few washed and dried currants and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of dissolved butter. Cut some slices of bread |in. thick, trim them into oblong pieces about 4in. long and 2in. broad, toast them a light brown on both sides, and spread the paste thickly over them. Brush each one over with the beaten white of an egg. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of toast on it, and bake them for half-an-hour. Grate nutmeg over them, and squeeze a little orange juice over just before serving. Set them on a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 639). Stewed Spinach with Anchovy Sauce.—Well wash the Spinach in plenty of water, drain it, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil until tender. Drain and finely chop the Spinach, put it into a stewpan, and stir over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until dry, taking care not to burn it. Put in 2oz. of butter, and continue stirring it until the butter has dissolved; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of creim and 1 table-spoon- ful of anchovy sauce. In five minutes’ tune take it off the fire and stir in loz. of butter. Turn the Spinach on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread and halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Sweet Spinach.—(1) Blanch a peck of Spinach, season with a very little salt, three lumps of sugar, a little crashed lemon-peel, and two pulverised macaroons. Cook slowly all together for ten minutes, and serve surrounded by six lady finger cakes. (2) Thoroughly wash the Spinach, blanch it in boiling salted water, drain free of moisture, put it in a saucepan with a little fresh butter, and stir over the fire till cooked. When cooked, mix some pounded macaroons, grated lemon peel, sugar, and a pinch of salt with it. Stir the above ingredients till well mixed, then form the Spinach—continued. mixture into little mounds by pressing it in egg-cups, and turning them out on a dish. Serve with a dish of sponge finger biscuits. SPIRITS.—Under this heading it is customary in this country to include all the inflammable and intoxicat- ing liquors obtained by distillation and used as beverages, such as Brandy, Gin, Rum, and Whisky, to which headings special reference may be made. Professor Simmonds, in his book on “ Popular Beverages,” observes : “ Wherever we go—whether the country be civilised or savage—ardent Spirits seem to be in favour; and if they cannot be obtained by importation, they manage to concoct some intoxicating liquor from their native roots, seeds, or vegetable juices. It is astonishing from what a number of vegetable substances, fruits, &c., Spirits may be distilled. In the United States the tomato has even been subjected to distillation, and a Spirit obtained from it of the most delicate and pleasant flavour, superior to, but strongly resembling in taste, the finest Scotch Whisky. The natives of Africa, of the Far East, of the Pacific Islands, of Mexico, and parts of South America, have their favourite strong drinks, although the modes of preparing these are not very fascinating.” Concerning the consumption of Spirits in England it is satisfactory to learn that we are amongst the most moderate as compared with other countries. This may be due, in a measure, to the efforts of total abstainers; but the greater probability is that the propensity for drinking strong liquors is less developed in the average Englishman. See Alcohol. SPITS (Fr. Broches; Ger. Bratspiesse; Ital. Spiedi; Sp. Asadors).—Modern invention has discovered a substitute for the Spit, which is now no longer seen in any but very large kitchens. Under the heading of Roasting these matters are duly explained; but, so far as conve- nience and perfection in manipulation are concerned, the Spit has not been in anywise superseded. The ordinary Spit (see Fig. 640) consists of a long sharp-pointed iron rod, fixed at the end opposite the point into a small grooved wheel. Sometimes it is found useful to fix the roast by means of a movable holdfast as shewn in Fig. 641, and some cooks prefer a cradle Spit for almost all purposes, arguing correctly that by piercing a joint the juice of the Fig. 641. Holdfast spit (Adams and Son). meat is apt to escape. There are two or three kinds of cradle Spits, of which the cages or cradle are fixtures ; and then there are cradle Spits, the one (see Fig. 642) having two bars Fig. 642. Ciiadle Spit. fixed and two rods at the top and two at the bottom, which unite and form an eye, working up and down over a screw- pin, and these are held fast, fixed, and adjusted by means of single thumb screws. The working of this is shown in the next engraving (see Fig. 643). Small Spits are some-