601 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ,tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. pan wit'n some straw placed between them to prevent their knocking together and breaking, and cold water up to their necks, and boil them for half-an hour. After- wards leave them in the water oft the fire until cold. Wipe them, dip their nozzles in bottle-wax, and stow them away for use in a dry store-cupboard. Tomato-and-Cornflour Pudding.—(1) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a stewpan with lqt. of new milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; this latter ingre lient may he omitted if desired. Slice some Tomatoes, cut them into small squares, mix them with the cornflour, and add a beaten egg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and stexm for an hour-and-a-half. Care must he taken not to let the water enter the top of the basin. Mix 1 teaspoonful of arrow- root smooth in 4 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, seasoning it nicely hut not too highly. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Gravy may he thickened and seasoned instead of the milk, if pre- ferred. (2) Put 111), of sliced Tomatoes in a stewpan with 1 pint of mutton broth. Stew the Tomatoes till very tender, then pass them with their liquor through a fine wire sieve. Stir li table-spoonfuls of cornflour into the puree, and mix in one beaten egg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water to two-thirds of its height, and steam for an hour. Make a sauce with Tomato liquor and plain stock, and season it nicely. \\ hen cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (3) Line the bottom of a pie-dish with slices of Tomatoes, season them with salt and pepper, and put in a small, thin slice of Spanish onion. Make 1 pint of beef-tea hot, and stir it into 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour. Beat two eggs well, mix them with the beef-tea, pour it over the Tomatoes, and bake. Serve while hot. Tomato-Cream Soup.—Peel and slice lqt. of fresh Tomatoes, pick over 4 breakfast-cupful of rice, and wash it well in cold water; mb 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to a smooth paste with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put the Tomatoes over the fire in a soup kettle, with lqt. of cold water, and let them heat gradually. When they are hot, add another quart of cold water, and when this boils put in the rice, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and con- tinue the boiling until the rice is tender, but not broken: then stir in the paste of butter and flour, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 pint of milk, or enough to make the soup as thick as cream. Let the soup boil for a few minutes to thoroughly cook the flour, and then serve it at once in a tureen. Tomato-and-Cucumber Salad. -Line the bottom of a salad- dish with lettuce, put a layer of slices of cucumber on the top, cover with a layer of slices of peeled Tomatoes, pour over salad dressing or mayonnaise sauce (see Fig. 803), and serve. Tomatoes and Eggs.—Put half-a-dozen ripe Tomatoes into a saucepan with a very little water to prevent their burn- ing, and boil them ; rub them through a fine sieve, and mix in a little chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and two or three eggs. Turn the mixture into a frying- pan with a little butter, fry until done, and serve on a Tomatoes—continued. dish. Finely-chopped ham or cold boiled potato, if added, is an improvement. Tomato Figs.—(1) The small yellow Tomatoes are the proper kind to use. After scalding them, take oft' the skins very carefully so as not in any way to break or injure the fruit. When the Tomatoes are peeled, weigh them, and to every pound allow Mb. of sugar. Pack the Tomatoes in layers in earthenware jars, with a layer of sugar between. Let them stand for twenty-four hours, then drain off the juice, and measure and add to each pint fib. of sugar. Put the juice and sugar in a preserving- pan on the stove, and let it boil; when it boils, put in the Tomatoes, and continue boiling, taking off all scum as it rises till they look clear; then pour into earthenware jars, and leave them for two days. Drain off the syrup, put it on the stove, and let it boil up ; pour it again over the Tomatoes, and leave them for another two days ; then take them out of the syrup and lay them on sieves to dry. They should be put in the sun all day for a week, and turned twice every day; if the weather be damp, tliey will have to be dried in a warm room. When perfectly dry, put them in layers in wooden boxes, with dry sugar between the layers, and store in a dry place. (2) Pour boiling water on the Tomatoes, so as to remove the skins easily, then weigh and place them in a stone jar with as much sugar as Tomatoes, and let them remain for two days; then pour off the syrup, and boil and skim till the scum ceases to rise. After this is re- peated three times they are fit to dry, provided the weather is good ; if not, let them remain in the syrup until good drying weather. Then place in earthenware plates or dishes, put them in the sun, .arid they will be dry in almost a week; after which, pack them in small wooden boxes, with white sugar between each layer. Tomatoes for Garnishing.—Put half-a-dozen large Tomatoes at the bottom of a saucepan, laying them flat and not one on top of the other, and pour over sufficient gravy to cover them. Cook gently for about twenty-five minutes, turning them so as to have them equally done, but taking care not to injure them. Thicken the liquor with a little butter rolled in flour, season with a little cayenne and salt, boil up once, remove the pan from the fire, take out the Tomatoes, and they are ready for use. | Tomatoes and Indian Corn.—Scald and peel half-a-dozen large Tomatoes, cut them in slices, and remove the seeds. Put an equal bulk of Indian corn or maize into a sauce- pan, with sufficient water to cover, and simmer gently until it is quite soft; drain it quite dry, put it into a saucepan with the Tomatoes, and cook gently for half- an-hour. Add a very small quantity of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, add a large piece of butter, stir well over the fire for five minutes, turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Tomato Jam.—(1) The Tomatoes must be sound and ripe. Scald, peel, and put them in a preserving-pan on the stove, and let them simmer till they are perfectly soft, then rub them through a sieve with a vegetable-masher or the back of a wooden spoon. Weigh this pulp, and to each pound allow lib. of sugar and the grated rind and juice of two lemons; boil all these together till the jam looks clear. When a little put in a saucer thickens as it cools it is done, and the pan may be removed from the stove, and the jam allowed to cool. Pour it into jars, taking care when it is quite cold to cover it so as to exclude the air. (2) Scald and peel 41b. of Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and scoop out the seeds, taking care not to injure the fruit more than possible. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the water in which the Tomatoes were scalded into a saucepan with the skins, seeds, and juice ; boil slowly for thirty minutes, and strain into a preserving-pan. Add 61b. of sugar, let the liquor boil, put in the Tomatoes, and boil for forty-five minutes or so, or until the liquor jellies. Let it cool, pour it into jars, cover them, and put them in a cool, dry place until wanted. (3) Kemove the green stalks, cut the Tomatoes into halves, put them in a stewpan with a very small