666 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle —continued. Take it out when done, glaze it, and serve with sorrel, piquante, or mushroom sauce poured round. Fricassee of Turtle.—Take 3lb. of Turtle-steak, and cut it into strips about 3in. wide and 4in. long. Put \ pint of strong veal gravy into a tin saucepan with a close-fitting lid, put the saucepan into a pot of hot water at the side of the fire, and let the gravy get hot. Fry the strips of Turtle brown in some butter, drain them on kitchen paper, and put them into the warmed gravy in the saucepan. Peel and slice a small onion, peel and cut the stems from a couple of dozen mushrooms, and fry both onions and mushrooms in the butter the Turtle has been fried in; then put them into the saucepan with the Turtle and gravy, add also a bunch of sweet herbs and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, put the lid on tight, move the pot over the fire, and let the Turtle simmer for quite half-an-hour. Add to the butter left in the frying-pan 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of browned flour, take it from the range, and mix the flour and butter to a smooth paste, mixing with it the strained juice of half a lemon. When the Turtle is done, take it up, arrange it on a hot-water dish, and cover it. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, add to it the paste from the frying pan, stir it till it is quite thick, and let it boil hard for at least five minutes ; then add 1 glass of wine, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, each yolk cut into three pieces, and let it boil up. Pour it over the Turtle, and serve. Fried Turtle.—Cut thin slices of tender uncooked Turtle flesh or of cold cooked Turtle, roll them in cracker- or bread-crumbs, then dip them in beaten egg, and again roll them in crumbs. Have ready over the fire a frying-pan con- taining about 4in. in depth of butter melted, and when it begins to smoke put in the slices of Turtle and fry them light brown. When the slices are fried, lay them on brown paper in a dripping-pan to free them from fat, and keep them hot in the oven until the sauce is made. Pour nearly all the butter out of the frying-pan, stir in ^ pint of cream, t pint of mild tomato ketchup, and enough flour or cracker crumbs to make the sauce of the proper consistency. Let it boil for two or three minutes while the fried Turtle is being dished with a garnish of sliced ham or fresh watercress, then pour the sauce into a bowl, and serve the dish. Any other well-seasoned sauce may be used. Tender Turtle steaks are very good broiled, and served with any acid jelly. Mignons of Turtle.—Cut out some circular pieces, about 2m. in diameter and tin. in thickness, from blanched Turtle-steak, and lard their surfaces with firm bacon-fat. Put in a braising-pan a few slices of onion, turnip, and carrot, a little celery and garlic, all finely chopped, and add cloves, mace, and other seasoning as required. Place the pieces of Turtle on the top, cover them over with more of the vegetables and seasoning, pour in sufficient good broth to moisten, and braise until the meat is tender. Take it out, put it on a dish, add some mush- room sauce to the ingredients in the pan, boil for a minute or two, pour the whole over the pieces of Turtle, and serve. A little lemon thyme, basil, and sherry may also be added to the sauce if desired. Preserved Green Turtle Soup.—Select a medium-sized Turtle, cut off the head, and let it bleed for twelve hours. Remove the bones by opening the sides, cut the carcase in pieces, and blanch them for three minutes in boiling water. Lift off the top shell and place it in a saucepan, covering it with white broth, a handful of whole peppers, one dozen cloves, half a bunch of thyme, and six bay- leaves (all the above spices and herbs tied up in a bit of muslin). Add a handful of salt, and cook for about an hour. Drain, remove the bones, and cut the rest in dice. Let the broth be reduced to three-fourths its quantity, then put in the white lean meat, letting it cook for ten minutes, and then add the green part of the Turtle. Fill some medium-sized pots with this, and when cold pour hot lard over the tops. A wineglassful or more of Madeira wine may be added to the broth according to taste. Stewed Turtle.—Clean a small Turtle, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and parboil it or sufficiently boil Turtle—continued. it to easily remove the meat. Cut out the meat in small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of salt, cayenne pepper, spices, and a little lemon, add a few hard-boiled eggs cut up and sufficient, white v'ine to moisten. Boil until the meat is quite tender, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. The meat for this should be rather over than underdone. The wine and lemon may be substituted by rich stock or by Turtle soup. Stewed Turtle Fins.—The fore fins of a Turtle (see Fig. 913) are considered the best to use, but the hind fins are reckoned nearly as good ; to serve them, disconnect them from the shell, keeping them whole, then dislocate the bone of the joint, and remove the fleshy part adhering to the fin. The round parts of the detached flesh at the side of the shoulder blade of each fin are the only parts made use of, and are called the noix or nuts. The upper ends of the fins where the junction-bones were should be trussed so as to keep them in shape. Now plunge the fins into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them remain until the outer skin can easily be peeled off by the aid of a knife. Put a few bacon parings, slices of vegetables, and sweet herbs at the bottom of a saucepan, place the fins over them, add a little broth and white wine to moisten, reduce this to a glaze, pour over sufficient of the broth and wine Fig. 914. Stewed Turtle-fin. to cover, and cook until the fins are done. Take them out, place them on a hot dish, garnish with the noix, larded and braised, and a few truffles (see Fig. 914), and serve. Turtle Fins ft la Bechamel.—Cut off the fins of a Turtle, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and scald until the scales can be easily removed. Put them into another saucepan with sufficient broth or water to cover, and cook them until tender. Take them out, arrange them on a dish, pour over some of the liquor in which they were cooked, and serve with bechamel sauce, boiled with 1 wineglassful of white wine, in a sauceboat. Turtle Fins a la Financiers.—Scald and clean the fins of a Turtle, take out the large bones, and insert thin tubes in the cavities; bind the fins tightly in cloths, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water or broth to cover, and boil until tender. Take them out when done, and let them cool without removing the cloths. Have ready a little Turtle quenelle mixture poached in Turtle consomme, remove the cloths and tubes from the fins, stuff them with the mixture, warm up again, and serve. A garnish com- posed of fancy shapes cut out of the firm red part of a cooked ox-tongue, truffles, breast of chicken, champignons, and also small quenelles may be used. Turtle Fatties.—Line a dozen or so patty pans with paste, and bake. Put 1 table-spoonful of powdered thyme, basil,