6 51 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. shells of two eggs, boil up once, strain through a flannel bag until clear, and pour it into two basins. Colour half of it with caramel, so as to give it a dark colour, let it set firm, cut it into fancy shapes, decorate the Turkey with it, and serve. Galantine of Turkey with Aspic Jelly.—Singe a Turkey, cut the tips off the legs and pinions, split the skin along the neck nearly as far as the head, then bone the bird completely. Cut some of the flesh off the legs and fillets into small pieces, put them in a basin with double their quantity of blanched bacon and a third of the quantity of ham, cut into small pieces* Season this forcemeat with salt and pepper, and pour 1 teacupful of white wine over it. Break up the backbone of the Turkey, put the pieces into a saucepan with the other bones, the trim mings and some scraps of beef, two boned and blanched calf’s feet, some vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices to taste. Pour in sufficient white broth to cover them, and boil it up; then skim it, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Finely chop some lean veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of finely-chopped fat bacon; add this to the previously prepared forcemeat, season the mixture with salt and spices, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a tine hair sieve, and then stuff the Turkey with it. Truss the bird to an oblong shape, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it securely at both ends in the middle. Put the Turkey in the boiling stock and boil it gently for two-hours -and-a-half; drain it at the end of that time, take oil' the cloth, rinse it in hot water, tie it on again, and leave the galantine till cool, with a light weight on the toil. Strain the cooking-liquor through a line hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and try a little of it on ice to see if it jellies; if not, mix with it a small quantity of isinglass that has been dissolved in a little water. When nearly cold, strain the liquor into a stewpan, mix with it some chopped lean beef, about 4oz. for each quart of liquor, two eggs, 1 wineglassful of white wine, the same quantity of Madeira, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and 2 table spoonfuls of chervil. Whip the stock over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, put on the lid, and let the contents simmer gently for twenty minutes. Strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag, and leave it till beginning to jelly. Put the whites of three eggs into a stewpan, and beat them till frothy; then pour in gradually the jelly and 1 wineglassful of Madeira, add a few cloves, and whisk it over the fire till boiling; then move the stewpan to the side at once, put some hot ashes on the lid, and leave it for fifteen minutes. Pass the jelly several times through a jelly-bag till quite clear, then pour it into a mould, stand it on ice, and leave it till cold and set. Take the galantine out of the cloth, trim it, glaze it with a paste-brush, put it on a dish, either whole or cut in slices, garnish it with croutons of the jelly, and serve. Hashed Turkey.—(1) Cut up whatever is left of a roasted Turkey, and put it into a saucepan ; add to it some shallots, mushrooms, truffles, chopped parsley, 2 table- spoonfuls of cullis, a little stock, say about 4 pint, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; then add one pounded anchovy and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Skim off the fat, and serve hot all together. (2) Roll a piece of butter in flour, stir it into a mixture of veal broth and cream till it boils, and then let it boil ten minutes. Cut some cold roasted or boiled Turkey into dice, and when the sauce has boiled ten minutes, draw it to the side of the fire and put in the dice, together with a little grated lemon-peel, pepper, pounded mace, a little mushroom ketchup, and an oyster or two. Let it just simmer, and then serve. , (3) Remove the skin and bones from a cold roasted Turkey, and chop it rather fine ; mix with it any cold stuffing and gravy on hand, or hot water enough to moisten it, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and any powdered herb except sage. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, put in the hash, set the pan over the fire, and stir until Turkeys—continued. it is very hot. Just before the hash is done, poach three or four eggs, by breaking them into boiling salted water; as soon as the hash is taken up, put the poached eggs on it, and serve at once; or it may be served without the poached eggs. (4) Cut the legs off' a cold roasted Turkey, score them, season them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear fire. Cut the white flesh of the Turkey into thin slices. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 4 pint of gravy, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, season with salt and pepper, and add the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon. Put in the thin slices of Turkey, and heat them over a slow fire, shaking the saucepan occasionally. When hot, turn the Turkey with the gravy on to a hot dish, put the broiled legs on the top, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Hashed Turkey a la Bechamel.—The same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, omitting the trufHe and bread croutons, and serving with chopped parsley strewed over. Hashed Turkey a la Creme.—This is prepared the same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, substituting 1 pint of cold cream and 1 table spoonful of butter for the bechamel sauce, omitting the truffles and pate de foie gras, and reducing the cream with the hash to one half, which will take from four to five minutes. Pour the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Hashed Turkey a la Polonaise.—Prepare the same as for Hashed Turkey a la Royale, only serving with six poached eggs and six heart shaped croutons instead of the truffles and pate de foie gras. Hashed Turkey a la Royale. -Take 1411). of nice-shaped pieces of cooked Turkey, place them in a saucepan with 1 pint of bechamel sauce, 3 table spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, and two truffles cut in square pieces. Season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 4 pinch of nutmeg, and heat all together for ten minutes; then serve with six heart-shaped pieces of bread, covered lightly with pate de foie gras for garnish. Legs of Turkey a l'ltalienne.—Bone four large legs of Turkey, keeping the skin as long as possible, and leaving a small piece of bone at the end of each; stuff the legs with chicken forcemeat that has been mixed with a small quantity of chopped cooked truffles and ham, roll them to the shape of ballotines, sew them up, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, and boil them in white stock. When cooked, drain the legs, and leave them till cooled with a light weight on the top. Boil the cooking-liquor till reduced, untruss the legs, carve them, put them in the re- duced liquor, and warm them gently. Drain the legs, coat them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, baste them with a little warmed butter, and put them in a quick oven to brown. Fix a ruffle on each bone, arrange the ballotines on a bed of rice that has been prepared as for garnish and placed on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of reduced and slightly thickened brown sauce. Mayonnaise of Turkey with Aspic Jelly.—Cut the breast of a cooked Turkey into slices, then cut them again into shapes all alike. Make some mayonnaise sauce with lemon - juice, and mix with it nearly its quantity of just melted Fm. 899. Mayonnaise op Turkey with Aspic Jelly. aspic jelly. Coat the pieces of Turkey with the mayonnaise jelly, put them on a dish, and stand it on ice. Finely chop a boiled beetroot, and chop some parsley. Take the slices of Turkey on a fork, and when the jelly has firmly