604 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. leaves. Pack them away in a box, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Tomato Piccalilli.—Chop fine 4 bushel of Tomatoes, and squeeze them dry; put them into a large bowl, and mix in a couple of dozen minced onions, twelve chopped green peppers, 4oz. of mustard, a little less than 1 pint of salt, a large root of horseradish finely grated, and 4 table- spoonfuls each of powdered allspice and cloves. When thoroughly macerated, put the mixture into a stone jar, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, making a slight hollow in the mixture to enable the liquor to get to the bottom of the jar, cover it over, and let it remain until all the ingredients are well saturated. It is then ready for use. Tomato Pickle.—The Tomatoes should be gathered when just commencing to ripen. Take, say, four dozen, put them in a vessel with sufficient salted water to cover, and steep them for two days, changing the water twice. At the end of that time drain the Tomatoes, rub them on a coarse cloth, and put them in a large stone or earthenware jar. Strew over the Tomatoes 4 pint of mustard seed, 4oz. of finely-shred ginger, loz. of garlic, the same of chopped shallots, 4oz. of peppercorns, Joz. of cloves, 1 table-spoonful each of flower of mustard, turmeric, and curry-powder, 4oz. of bay-salt, and a small quantity of common salt. Put in a pan lgall. of vinegar, with an equal quantity of the above-named spices, and boil it. Pour the boiling vinegar over the Tomatoes, cover the jar with a plate, and stand it on the corner of the hob, not too near the fire, and leave it there for two days. Boil the vinegar up again, pour it over the Tomatoes, and leave them for two days longer. Reboil the vinegar at the end of that time, adding more vinegar to it so that the Tomatoes will be completely covered, and pour it over them. When quite cold, cover the jar with bladder, and tie it down securely. Keep the pickle in a dry store- cupboard. It will be found an excellent relish with cold meat. Tomato Pie.—(1) The Tomatoes should be gathered in the autumn before they are ripe, and the large ones only used; peel them, weigh them, and for every four pounds allow 141 h. of sugar and 1 teacupful of molasses. Put all together into a lined pan, and boil them slowly for three or four hours. When cooked, turn them into jars, leave them until cold, then cover them with parchment, and tie down. To make a pie with the Tomatoes pre- pared as above, a buttered pie dish should be lined with a good crust, then the dish filled with the Tomatoes, three or four slices of lemon laid on the top, and a cover of the crust put on, moistening and pinching the edges together in the usual way. The pie should then be baked until the crust is done. (2) Procure the requisite quantity of green Tomatoes, put them in a basin, cover with boiling water, and leave them for ten minutes. Drain the Tomatoes, skin them, and cut them into slices. Butter a pie-dish, line it with short paste, put in the Tomatoes, dusting grated ginger, lemon-peel, and moist sugar between each layer, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and cover the pie with a crust. Put it in a slow oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top of the pie, and serve. (3) Skin 2lb. of Tomatoes, cut them into thin slices, lay them in a pie-dish, and dust a small quantity of salt over them. Beat two eggs well with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, Jib. of caster sugar, and the strained juice of small lemon. Pour the custard over the Tomatoes, cover the pie with a fiat of puff paste, put it in a brisk oven, and bake it for a little more than lialf-an-hour. When cooked, dust caster sugar over the pie, and serve. Tomato Pilau.—Put 141b. of ripe Tomatoes in a mortar, and press them well to extract their juice, which pass through a line hair sieve; then pour it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of broth. Peel and chop two onions, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned; drain the onions, put them in with the Tomato juice, add a lump of salt, and place Tomatoes—continued. the saucepan over the fire. When the liquor boils, put in lll>. of well-washed rice, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until all the moisture is absorbed. Make 4oz. of butter hot, then stir it in with the rice; put the lid again on the saucepan, and let it stand on the stove for twenty minutes. Turn the pilau on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over it, and serve while very hot. Tomato Preserve.—Procure 81b. of perfectly sound green Tomatoes, and put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly- pared rind and strained juice of four lemons and 2oz. of whole ginger. Place them over a brisk fire until tender, then put in 81b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil the whole quickly until thickly reduced, stirring it often and keeping it well skimmed. When the preserve is suffi- ciently cooked, remove the ginger, turn it into jars, and when cold cover and tie for use. Tomato-and-Pumpkin Soup.—Cut up lib. of ripe Tomatoes and lib. of pumpkin; put them in a saucepan with a chopped onion 'and lqt. of water, and stew gently to a pulp. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful each of milk and thick cream, and loz. of butter, and place it over the lire until boiling; season to taste with salt and peppei, and a small quantity of spice, if liked. Cut some small squares or three cornered pieces of bread ; melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the pieces of bread, and fry them a pale golden brown on both sides. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with the pieces of bread. Tomato Puree.—(1) Cut lib. of small ripe Tomatoes into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and salt and pepper to taste ; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the Tomatoes are quite soft. Put loz. each of butter and Hour into a sauce- pan over the fire, and stir well for five minutes; rub the Tomato mixture through a fine sieve, having taken out the bunch of herbs and onion, add it to the fiour-and- butter roux, as well as 2oz. of meat glaze, set the sauce- pan on the fire again, stir well for five minutes, rub the mixture through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (2) Empty the contents of a large bottle of French Tomato sauce into a stewpan, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Mix 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour smoothly with 1 teacupful of cold water, and stir it in with the Tomato sauce; add loz. of butter, and stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens. It is then ready for serving. (3) Peel and chop very fine a small onion, put it with a dozen red Tomatoes cut into slices in a stewpan over the fire, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Let them boil for half-an-hour, strain them from the water, and rub them through a coarse sieve. Boil 1 pint of milk, and stir into it 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; rub 1 table-spoonful of flour into 2oz. of butter, stir it into the milk, let it boil once, and draw it from the fire, but put it where it will keep hot. Turn the Tomato pulp in a stewpan over the fire with 1 heaped teaspoonful of sugar and a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, and let them boil very gently for five minutes; pour them into a tureen, stir in 1 teacupful of dry breadcrumbs, and next the thickened milk. Serve directly. (4) Put 14oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; next add the contents of a large bottle of Tomato conserve, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir well. Tie together in a bundle a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and marjoram, a clove of garlic, and a bay-leaf; put the bundle in with the puree, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire. When ready to serve the puree, remove the bundle. Tomatoes with Rice.—(1) Wash six large Tomatoes, wipe them dry, cut off the top of each, remove the seeds with a vegetable scoop, and season the insides of each with pepper and salt. Put them in a well buttered pan. Place 2oz of well warned rice in a cup or dish, add to it 1 tea- spoonful of warmed butter, half a medium-sized peeled and finely-chopped shallot, and season with salt. Mix well. Put into each Tomato 1 teaspoonful of the rice mixture, place