584 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Terrapin—continued. Baked Terrapins in Maryland Style.- -Half fill a baking- pan with dry gravel or sand, put it into an oven, and make it quite hot; well wash three Terrapins that have been killed, remove their heads, put them with the top shell downwards in the sand, and bake in the oven for an hour. Take them out, remove the under shell, gall-bag, and entrails, and loosen the meat without taking it out of the back shell. Full off the legs, skin them, and lay them on top. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of butter in a basin, soften it, mix in 1 teacupful of flour, 1 teaspoonful each of black pepper and salt, and the juice of a lemon. Put Fio. 777. Baked Terrapins in Maryland Style. a little more than 1 table-spoonful of this into each Terrapin, place them back in the oven for a few minutes, take them out, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 777). Boiled Terrapin. -Put the heads, shells, and any small pieces into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover them, and boil slowly for two or three hours, skimming constantly as required; strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the tough pieces of meat and the blood, and boil for three-quarters-of an-lmur; then add the fat, and boil for fifteen minutes longer. Take out the pieces of meat and fat, put them in a tureen, pour over the liquor through a fine sieve, and serve. Fricassee of Terrapin.—Put the meat of two or three Terrapins into a saucepan with a little butter and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs; cook until it is slightly coloured, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste and 1 table-spoonful cf flour, and pour in gradually sufficient cream to nearly cover. Boil without stirring for four minutes, then add l wineglassful of sherry; boil again for ten minutes, take the saucepan from the tire, thicken with the beaten yolks of four eggs, remove the bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, add 5oz. of butter pulled in small pieces, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with minced paisley sprinkled over. Mock Terrapin- Soup.—Chop into small pieces 21b. of roasted or boiled beef, put it into a saucepan, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of wine and milk, and add Hoz. of butter rolled in flour, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of made mustard, and a little grated nutmeg. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, turn it into a tureen, and serve. Stewed Terrapins.—(1) Cut the flesh off some Terrapins in small pieces, and put them over the fire in a stewpan together with a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper, and a piece of butter. Let them stew in the butter for a short time, add 1 wineglassful of water for each Terrapin, and put in at the same time a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew for ten minutes, add for each Terrapin 1 wineglassful of white v ine, and let them stew for another five minutes; then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in some beaten yolks of eggs, allowing one yolk to two Terrapins. Cover the pan tightly and let it stand for five minutes. Then pour the Terrapins, sauce and all, into a tureen, and serve. (2) To the meat of about two large or four small Terrapins, add 1 teacupful of sherry and 1 breakfast- cupful of port, 1 teacupful each of butter and currant or similar fruit jelly, I dessert-spoonful nearly full of Worcestershire sauce, a little cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Stew all these together, and just as the meat is cooked, stir well in 1 breakfast-cupful of pure fresh cream; as soon as the cream gets hot and well mixed with the dressing, serve it. For this purpose a regular metal or silver stew-dish is to be preferred, with an Terrapin—continued. alcohol lamp attached. Use mustard to taste, but take care not to let it predominate. (3) Put lgall. of the liquor in which six Terrapins were boiled into a saucepan, add a small quantity of water to make up for what will boil away, and add also 1 table- spoonful of crushed peppercorns, a little root of parsley, a bunch of the same and green thyme, a blade of mace, eight cloves, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion. Put 6oz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire to colour, put them into the saucepan with tne liquor when it boils, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt. Cut out the meat from the six cooked Terrapins, trimming off all the projecting bones, and forming the pieces into smooth and well-shaped joints; put these into the saucepan with the liquor, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until they are quite hot. Add the eggs, if any, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, as well as any pieces of fat, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (4) For 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Terrapin-meat, put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table spoonful of flour, and stir them together over the fire until they are delicately browned; then stir in 1 pint of the second water in which the Terrapin was boiled or 1 pint of boiling water. When the sauce is stirred quite smooth, season it with 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspopnful each of pepper and grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne. Put the Terrapin meat into the sauce, and heat it till scalding hot; then draw it to the side of the fire, add the yolks of four eggs beaten smooth, and serve the Terrapin in a tureen containing 1 gill of Madeira and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. (5) Cut the meat and liver into pieces, and put them into a lined kettle, together with the eggs and whatever blood or juice has been taken out. When cutting up, season well with cayenne and powdered mace. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, and when melted and quite hot add 1 gill of rich cream ; stir well, add the meat and eggs, together with the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs rubbed fine, pour in a little Madeira wine, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Potatoes baked in their skins should accompany this dish. Stewed Terrapin in Baltimore Style.—Prepare two medium-sized Terrapins. Make \ pint of mirepoix sauce, add to it 1 table-spoonful of flour, and cook for fifteen minutes; moisten with | wineglassful of Madeira wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of strong broth. Stir well and constantly, season with J pinch of salt and a very little cayenne pepper, and reduce the liquor to half. Cut the Terrapins into small pieces, throwing the ends of the claws away ; put them in a stewpan, straining the sauce over, and finish with loz. of fresh butter, also the juice of a lemon. Dish up, and serve. Stewed Terrapin with Cream. - For 1 pint of Terrapin meat, use 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir them over the fire in a thick saucepan until they bubble, then gradually stir in 1 pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful each of white pepper and grated nutmeg, and a dust of cayenne; next put the Terrapin into the saucepan, and stir it until it is scalding hot; draw the saucepan to the side of the fire where its contents will not boil, and stir in the yolks of four eggs previously beaten smooth. Do not allow the Terrapin to boil after adding the eggs, but pour it at once into a tureen con- taining I gill of Madeira and 1 table-spoonful of lemon- juice, and serve. Stewed Terrapin in Maryland Style. —Carefully cut up two Terrapins, place them in a saucepan with \ wine- glassful of good Madeira wine, £ pinch of salt, a very little cayenne pepper, and loz. of good butter. Mix well 1 breakfast-cupful of good sweet cream with the yolks of three boiled eggs, and add it to the Terrapin, briskly and constantly stirring while thoroughly heating, but without letting it'come to a boil. Turn the whole into a hot tureen, and serve very hot. Terrapin Salad.—Cut out the meat from three boiled Terrapins, chop it up small, and mix it with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, pounded in a mortar with 1.1b. of