589 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thumb-bits—continued. Mock-Crab Tliumb-bits.—Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg into a smooth paste with a little salad-oil, adding, one at a time, and to taste, salt, caster sugar, made mustard, a few drops of onion vinegar, and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped cold fowl. When these are incorporated, work in 1 table-spoonful of grated cheese. Spread this paste, and serve as already described. Mock-Game Thumb-bits.—Take equal quantities of butter and grated cheese, and beat them up in a mortar with a little made mustard, salt, and-cayenne or white pepper. Spread this on one slice of bread, and on the other spread a paste made by beating up any kind of cold meat and flavouring it with a trifle of jiowdered mace and salt. Proceed as before described. Oyster Thumb-bits.—Trim ofF the beards of as many oysters, either fresh or tinned, as may be required, and pound the bodies in a mortar together with a little cayenne pepper and lemon juice to taste. Butter some thin slices of brown bread, and finish as before described. Poultry Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold poultry made into a paste and daintily seasoned can be spread on bread or toast, and made up as already described. Tomato-and-Sardine Thumb-bits. —Clean, bone, and smash up the flesh of a fewsardines together with a little butter, sea- soning nicely with cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Skin as many tomatoes as may be required, cut them into very thin slices, and sprinkle over them a dust of caster sugar. Cut some very thin slices off a tinned loaf of bread and spread them with soft butter; cover one slice with the sardine paste, and lay the slices of tomato on the other. Take up the sardine slice and turn it over on to the tomatoes. Press down with the flat of a knife and then cut the slices into small sandwiches, 2in. by 1 in. in size. Pile them on a plate, and garnish with parsley. THUNNY.—See Tunny. THYME (Fr. Tliym ; Ger. Thymian; Ital. Timo ; Sp. Tomillo).—According to some of our botanical authorities there are as many as fifty varieties of Thyme; but according to the cook there are but two, these, however, being of the greatest importance—the common or garden Thyme (Thymus vulgaris) and lemon-scented Thyme (T. citrio- dorus);' the latter having, as its name suggests, a strong lemon-like odour that rather limits its use as a seasoning. The common Thyme (see Fig. 787) grows in large masses Thyme—continued. or stools, the leaves being very small and the stems fine and woody, and covered with hoary down. In the South of France an essential oil distilled from it is imported into this country, and sold as marjoram oil, for which it is substituted. From the “ Treasury of Botany ” we gather that Thyme— “ a native of Spain and Italy—is recorded as having been introduced into this country about a.d. 1548, or perhaps earlier. Its uses are well known The leaves, both in a green or dried state, are employed for seasoning soups, stews, sauces, and stuffings, to which they give an agreeable and highly aromatic flavour. Before the introduction of the Eastern species (lemon-scented) this plant was in great repute. According to Evelyn, it was extensively cultivated in the neighbourhood of Sandwich and Deal for medicinal purposes. It yields a species of camphor by distillation with water, and in Spain they infuse it in the pickle with which they preserve their olives. The Romans were well acquainted with Thyme, which was one of the plants re- commended to be grown for the sake of bees.” (Sec Herbs.) T ID-BITS.—This is sometimes spelled Tit-bits, an evident corruption of the Anglo-Saxon tydere, signifying tender, soft, or nice, and bit, or bite. Every dish may be said to have its specially nice or Tid-bits, which it is important for the server or carver to understand, as they are generally reserved for the most honoured guest. In some respects they answer to the French bonnes bouches. Of roasted fowl the breast is the best part; of boiled fowl the leg is preferred. The liver and gizzard are Tid- bits. The shoulder of a rabbit is the best part, and the brain is a Tid-bit. The sounds of codfish ; the thin or fat of salmon ; the thick and fins of turbot, liver and roe; the fat of venison, lamb, or veal kidney ; the long cuts and gravy from the “ Alderman’s walk ” of a haunch of veni- son or mutton; the pope’s eye in a leg of mutton; the oyster cut of a shoulder of mutton; the ribs and neck of a sucking-pig; the small bones of a breast of lamb, and the rib cartilages of a breast of veal; the back pieces, ears, and brain of a hare ; the breast and thighs of turkey and goose; the legs and breast of a duck, the tails and little pieces from the loin or back being especially select; the wings, breast, and back of game birds; the bits under the ears, next the eyes, and side next the cheek, and the “ sweet tooth ” of a calf’s head, are all recognised as Tid-bits. Others are very much according to individual taste. TIERCE—The name of a cask which represents one- third of a pipe of wine—that is, having a capacity of 42 wine or 35 Imperial gallons. The term is derived from the Latin tertius—a third. Casks of the same name, larger than barrels, but smaller than hogsheads, are used for packing salted provisions, rice, and other foods for shipment. TIGER’S MILK—This is the eccentric name given to an American concoction that is greatly in vogue amongst a certain class of full-grown drinkers. It is mixed as follows : (1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup into a basin, add 3 drops each of the tinctures of cloves, orange, nutmeg, and cinnamon, then 1 wineglassful of peach liquor (or brandy), and double the quantity of brandy (cognac), and lastly stir in Iqt. of sweet cider. When thoroughly incorporated, stir in lqt. of new milk and the white of an egg whipped to a froth, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of peach brandy and 1 teacupful of applejack, or cider and brandy, into a large bowl, add 4 drops each of oil of cloves, essence of orange, and essence of cinnamon, and 2qts of milk, sweetening to taste with white powdered sugar; heat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir it into the Tiger’s • Milk, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve immediately.