520 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. cover on the freezing-pot, and keep it packed in ice for an hour or so. Turn tlje cream on to a fancy dish, and put some large ripe Strawberries round the base and on the top (see Fig. 680). Strawberry Crusts (Crofttes aux Praises).—Prepare some small round buns, which can be split into halves, buttered, and warmed in the oven. Sprinkle powdered sugar over some Strawberries, braise them slightly, and let them stand for some time. Mix the fruit and sugar, cover the hot buns with this, let them get cold, and serve in a glass dish. Strawberry Drops.—Pass some ripe Strawberries through a line hair sieve, and mix with the puree some coarsely-sifted sugar. Put the paste into a sugar boiler with a lip to it, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then let the drops fall slowly from the lip of the pan on to a baking-sheet, leaving a small space between each. When cold, put the drops on to a sieve, and dry them in a hot closet. Keep them packed in canisters. Strawberry Plawn.—Butter a fiawn-circle, and line it with a good tart-paste. Cover the paste with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it in a slack oven. When cooked, remove the paper, and cover the paste with a thin coating of apricot marmalade. When cold, fill the hollow of the paste with some fine ripe, freshly-gathered Strawberries, putting them in in close layers; pour over them a little thick syrup. Whip £ pint of thick cream to a firm froth, adding caster sugar and flavouring to taste. Pour the cream over the Strawberries, raising it in a dome, and smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife. Put the flawn on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Strawberry Pool.—Pass lib. of Strawberry jam through a fine hair sieve, using the back of a wooden spoon to rub it through. Beat the yolks of two eggs, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir them over the fire until thickened and boiling. Leave the milk until cool, then mix it with the jam. Turn the whole on to a glass dish, and leave it until quite cold. Whip \ pint of thick cream to a stiff’ froth, pile it on the top of the fool, and serve. Strawberry Fritters.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil with the grated peel of half a lemon and a little flour; when smooth add the wrtdl whisked wdiites of three eggs and a little white wine. The mixture should be of the consistency of thick cream. Pick the tops off' some large ripe Strawberries, and put the fruit in the prepared batter. Put a lump of butter into a deep frying-pan, and when it is boiling drop the batter with the Straw - berries from a table-spoon into the fat. When nicely cooked, take the fritters carefully out, drain them on a sieve, then arrange them on a hot dish; sift some caster sugar over, and serve them. Strawberry Jam.—(1) Take small or even crushed Straw- berries, being careful to reject all decayed ones, remove the hulls, and take care that the fruit is clean. Weigh it, and to every 21b. of fruit add 1 ill), of sugar; put both fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan, and crash it slightly wdtli Strawberries—continued. a masher or a wooden spoon. Then put the pan on the stove, let it get hot gradually, and boil till a little of the jam put to cool on a saucer jellies as it cools. It ought to be stirred occasionally during the boiling, and any scum that rises must be taken off’. When the jam is done, remove the pan from the stove, let it cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay a piece of white paper soaked in brandy on the top of the jam in each jar, and fasten them with a cover of paper dipped in white of egg slightly beaten, but not to a froth. Keep in a cool dry place. (2) Pick 61b. or 81b. of ripe Strawberries, put them into a preserving-pan with 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of red-currant juice and an equal weight of Strawberries in crashed loaf sugar, set the pan on a clear fire, and boil. Let it boil for about ten minutes; try a little to see if the jam be done, put it into jars when quite ready, cover them wflien cold with paper soaked in brandy, and then with thick paper or bladder, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Strawberry Jelly.—(1) Pick the stalks from l^lb. of Straw- berries, put them in a basin, pour over them lqt. of syrup at 30deg. (see Sugar boiling) that has cooled a little, and let them steep for an hour. Whisk over the fire, in a stewpan, 3ioz. of gelatine, the whites of three eggs, the juice of one lemon, and lqt. of water; when it boils, take it off. Strain the Strawberries through a jelly- bag, and mix the syrup with the gelatine. Pour the mixture in a mould, pack it in ice, cover with a baking- sheet, put ice on the top, and let it set for two hours. When ready to serve, turn the jelly on to a dish. (2) Put some ripe Strawberries in a mortar, and pound them; then pour off’ the juice and strain it through a silk sieve into a preserving-pan. Mix with the juice an equal weight of finely-pounded loaf sugar; stir it over a clear fire, and let it boil for half-an-hour, removing all the scum as it rises to the top. Put the jelly into glass jars, leave it till cold, then cover it, first with rounds of paper dipped in brandy then with paper brushed over with white of egg. Tie the jars down securely, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (3) Put fib. ot crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil it gently for twenty minutes. Pick lqt. of ripe Strawberries, put them in a basin, pour the syrup over them, and let them stand for twelve hours. Clarify 1£ oz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water. Strain the liquor from the Strawberries, mix with it \ pint of red-currant juice, the juice of one lemon, the isinglass, and more sugar if required. Turn the above mixture into a jelly-mould, and pack it in ice till firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Fig. 681. Strawberry Jelly. (4) Press the juice from sufficient Strawberries to make 1 pint. Strain it into a preserving-pan, mix with it 1 pint of water, the juice of one lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of raspberry-juice, 3 teacupfuls of crashed loaf sugar, and loz. of dissolved gelatine. Stir the contents of the preserving- pan over the fire till boiling, then strain it through a jelly-bag into a mould, and leave till set. W hen ready to serve, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish. (5) Soak 1 ioz. of geiatine in \ pint of cold water. Take 21b. of Strawberries, hull them, mash them well, and strain