467 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Soles —continued. grated breadcrumbs, and put a few pieces of butter on them. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake for about twenty minutes. Serve the fillets while very hot on the same dish. Fillets of Soles a la Joinville.—(1) Cut the fillets off three Soles, fold them, and lay them in a circle in a buttered flat stewpan, moistening with \ wineglassful of white wine and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Season with J pinch each of salt and pepper, and cook them over a moderate fire for six minutes. Arrange the fillets on a dish and keep them hot at the side of the stove. Reduce the gravy to half, adding one cooked lobster claw, one truffle, and three mushrooms, all cut julienne shaped. Add 4 pint of German sauce, stir well, pour it over the Soles/ place a piece of truffle and a button-mushroom on each fillet, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets olf the bones, put them in a stew- pan with a lump of butter and toss about over the fire till cooked. Arrange the fillets round a hot dish, fill the middle with finely-chopped truffles and shrimps, poui- over them some German sauce in which has been mixed a little shrimp butter, and serve. Fillets of Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin a Sole, cut off the fillets, and divide them into small pieces. Put the bones and trimmings of the Sole in a saucepan with an onion and 1 pint of water, and boil them for half- an-hour. Strain the above liquor, put it back in the saucepan, season it with salt and pepper, add the fillets of Sole, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, take the Soles out and boil the liquor quickly till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in a little cold water, and when quite smooth stir it in with the sauce; continue stirring it over the fire till thick, then put the fillets in again, season with salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley, and boil altogether for a minute or two. Turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve. Fillets of Soles en Matelote.—Separate the fillets from the bones of two Soles. Cut each fillet into halves, dredge them over with flour, roll them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs. Pour a small quantity of salad-oil into a fry- ing-pan, bring it to the required heat, then put in the fillets and fry them. Before the fillets are cooked, the following sauce should be prepared: Put about three dozen peeled button-onions into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and place them over the fire till lightly browned, then pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and boil. Pour lqt. of brown sauce and J2 pint of stock in with the onions, and boil them by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the sauce, mix in it some heads of mushrooms, an equal quantity of quenelles, 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s sauce, mushroom ketchup, and anchovy essence, and add a pinch of cayenne pepper. When cooked and nicely browned, drain the fillets, arrange them on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Sole en Mayonnaise.—Put the fillets of a Sole into a baking-dish with a lump of butter, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt and pepper. Bake them, and when cooked press them between two plates until cold. Cut the fillets into strips and dip them in some mayonnaise sauce. Put a border of white aspic jelly on a dish, ornament it with hard-boiled eggs, cabbage lettuces, slices of beetroot, and crayfish-tails ; arrange the fillets in reverse circles inside the border, building them dome shaped, and pour over them some mayonnaise sauce. Scoop the yolk carefully out of a hard boiled egg, leaving the white to form a cup, in which stick the heart of a cabbage lettuce, fix it on the top of the mayonnaise, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Normande.—Take the fillets from three fine Soles after they have been skinned, fold them in two, and lay them in a flat buttered saucepan, with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a small pinch each of salt and pepper. Cover over the pan, cook for six minutes, take them out, Soles—continued. drain, and arrange them on a dish. Reduce the gravy to one half, add twelve blanched oysters and six sliced mushrooms, moistening with \ pint of German sauce. Thicken the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of butter, tossing well till dissolved, and add lastly the juice of half a lemon. Garnish the sides of the dish with the oysters and mushrooms, and pour the sauce over the fish. Garnish with three small cooked crayfish, three fried smelts, and three small round potato croquettes, and serve. Fillets of Soles a l’Orly.—(1) Remove the fillets from the Soles, put them in a dish, with pepper, salt, and plenty of lemon-juice over them, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Put the trimmings of the fish into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and h pint of white wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil the sauce till somewhat reduced. Rub some flour over the fillets, and fry them in boiling fat. When cooked, drain the fillets, put them on a dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Bone the Soles and place the fillets into a deep dish, put in with them some slices of onion and sprigs of parsley, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, season with pepper and salt, and let them macerate for one hour. Drain the Soles, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in boiling fat. Make some thick tomato sauce, and pour it on to a hot dish. Drain the Soles, arrange them on the tomato sauce, and serve. (3) Skin and bone the Soles, cut the fillets first across, then each piece lengthwise, into three strips, put them into a deep dish, with some slices of onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and some lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and let them steep for two hours. Drain the fillets, wipe them with a cloth, and dip them in frying batter. Have some hot lard in a frying-pan, put the fillets in, and fry them till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the fillets, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange some sprigs of fried parsley round them, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. (4) Put 2oz. of flour into a basin, dust in a little salt, and mix it smoothly with 1 table-spoonful of milk ; then stir in lightly the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, and the well-whipped white of one egg. Separate the flesh from the bones of the Sole, having- first skinned it, cut each fillet into halves, and lay them in a basin. Mix together 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon and chilli vinegar, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped onion, and the same of chopped parsley; season with salt and pepper, pour the mixture over the fillets of Sole, and leave them steeping for fifteen minutes. Dip the pieces of Sole in the above batter, and fry them in boiling fat. When of a nice golden ln-own, drain the pieces of Sole, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Farisienne.—Put the fillets of two * Soles into a saucepan with a finely-chopped onion, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and cover them with butter that has been melted, seasoning with pepper and salt. Toss the Soles about over a moderate fire till cooked, Fig. 606. Fillets of Soles X la Parisienne. taking care not to let them burn. When done, arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour over them some Italian sauce, garnish with lemon and parsley (see Fig. 606), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Portugaise.—Clean a pair of Soles, bone them, cut the flesh into four fillets, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter and lemon-juice, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads 2 H 2 UNIVt.lk'df y LIBRARY