THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 571 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tar—continued. medicinally, especially for relaxed throats, in the form of sugar drops, thus prepared: Mix together 21b. of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bone black, 2 table-spoonfuls of prepared Tar water, and £ pint of cold water. Set the mixture over a moderate fire, and let it boil till a little tried in cold water is brittle; then pour it on a buttered or oiled marble slab, and when cold cut it into drops. TARO.—A plant (Colocasia esculenta) with large arrow- head shaped leaves and fleshy rootstocks, which is culti- vated for food in India and the Sandwich Islands. The leaves are cooked and eaten like spinach, and the roots as potatoes. The common name for the vegetable is Tara. See Fig. 757. TARRAGON (Fr. Estragon; Ger. Shlangen-Kraut; Ital. Serpentaria; Sp. Estragon).—An aromatic plant (Artemisia Dracunculus), originally brought to Europe from Siberia. It has long narrow leaves (see Fig. 758) of a bright green colour when freshly gathered, and possess- ing a peculiar aromatic taste, which is much approved by cooks for flavouring, especially vinegar for salads. The following preparations are in common use: Tarragon Butter.—Mince some Tarragon leaves very small, put 1 table-spoonful into a mortar, pound them well, and work in lib. of butter, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub the preparation through a fine hair sieve and it is ready for use, and should be served with soles and mackerel. Tarragon Sauce. -(1) Put a few branches of green Tarragon and 1 wineglassful of white wine vinegar into a saucepan, and boil for about ten minutes; then add 4 table-spoon- fuls of veloute sauce and the yolks of two eggs to thicken. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, add a few leaves of Tarragon, blanch them and cut them up Tarragon—continued. rather small, a flavouring of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. The sauce is then ready for use, and should accompany boiled fowl. (2) Put jflb. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them well, letting the flour colour; pour over 1 pint of chicken stock or broth, and stir well until it boils; add a small bunch of Tarragon leaves, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Skim off' the fat if any, pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another saucepan, reduce it, thicken with the yolks of two eggs, and it is ready for use. (3) Put a bunch of Tarragon-leaves into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock, add the white of an egg whisked in a little cold water and 1 teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar, and beat well with a whisk over the fire until the liquor boils. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, ami let it remain until the egg is set firm and the liquor bright. Strain it through a cloth into another saucepan, reduce to half glaze, and it is ready for use. (4) Put ^ pint of velvet sauce (veloutd) to boil in a saucepan on the hot stove ; add \ break fast-cupful of white broth and two sprigs of Tarragon, season with a very little salt, and cook for ten minutes. Cut up very fine twelve blanched Tarragon-leaves, and add to the sauce when serving. (5) Prepare 1 pint of white sauce, and mix with it some blanched and chopped Tarragon. It is then ready for serving. Tarragon Vinegar.—(1) Gather the shoots of Tarragon (they should be full grown) the day before they are wanted. Put into a gallon jar as many as it will hold without pressing them down, add the thinly-pared rind of two lemons, also half-a-dozen cloves, fill the jar with white wine vinegar, cork it tightly, and let it stand in the sun for a fortnight or three weeks. Strain the vinegar through a cloth, squeezing the Tarragon-leaves well and wringing them in the cloth, filter it through paper, and then bottle it. (2) Put 51b. or 61b. of Tarragon leaves into an earthenware jar and pour over lgall. of white wine vinegar to each pound of leaves. Strain it into another jar through a jelly-bag, and add a little more than ioz. of gelatine dissolved in a small quantity of cider. Stir well, pour the vinegar into bottles, cork them down, and put them in a cool place till wanted. The leaves should be picked off just before the plant blossoms. A little thin rind of lemon and three or four cloves may be added to give a flavour. (3) Fill a large bottle with the leaves of Tarragon when it is in flower, pour vinegar over them, and let them stand for a fortnight. Strain through flannel, put it in small bottles, and cork them well. (4) Eastern Fashion.—Put into a glass jar 3oz. of elder-flowers, Hoz. of mint, 3oz. each of small onions and shallots, one head of garlic, 14oz. of salt, a large bunch of Tarragon, one cut lemon, and 1 teaspoonful each of pounded cloves and cayenne pepper. Pour over these ingre- dients 6qts. of wine vinegar, cork the jar, and stand it in a warm temperature for three months. The stopper must be occasionally taken out of the jar, and the contents shaken. At the end of the three months, filter the vinegar, pour it into small bottles, and cork them tightly. TARTAR.—See Cream op Tartar. TARTAR SAUCE (TARTARE).—See Sauces. TARTARIC ACID.—An acid obtained in crystals from cream of tartar by an elaborate chemical process. It is very soluble in water, and usually sold in a powder, which renders it exceedingly liable to adultera- tion. It is sometimes used in conjunction with bicar- bonate of soda to make baking-powder. Tartaric Acid is a bad culinary substitute for citric acid or lemon- juice. See Cream of Tartar. TARTS and TARTLETS.—Kettner makes the fol- lowing observations and comments. He tells us that many persons associate these words with the adjective “ tart,”—