TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 661 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turnips—continued. cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, dust some caster sugar over them, and fry them till brown. When browned, take the Turnips out and put them on a hot dish. Pour in the frying-pan with the butter a little more than l pint of stock, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt, and boil it quickly for a few minutes till reduced. Skim the fat oil' the sauce, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, pour it over the Turnips, and serve them. (3) Peel some small new Turnips, cut them in halves, put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for two or three minutes. Dust them over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, cover them with clear stock that has been well freed from fat, and add 1 teaspoonful of white sugar. Boil the. Turnips very slowly until they are tender, and serve them on a hot dish with their gravy over them. Stewed Turnips a la Franchise.—Procure small young Turnips, peel them, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them until tender; then take them out of the saucepan. Thicken their liquor with breadcrumbs, season to taste, and stir over the tire for a few minutes; next put in the Turnips again, with the beaten yolk of one egg and 1 teacupful of milk, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for five or six minutes. Turn the Turnips on to a hot dish, garnish them with fried sippets of bread, and serve. Stewed Turnips with Sugar.—Peel some young Turnips, selecting them as nearly as possible of one size, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned. Sprinkle some caster sugar over them, season with a little salt, pour in 1 teacupful of stock, more or less, according to the quantity of Turnips, put the lid on the saucepan, and let them simmer slowly till tender. When cooked, turn the Turnips on to a hot dish, and serve. Stuffed Turnips.—Select the Turnips all of one size, neither too large nor too small, peel them, cut off the tops, and scoop out their insides. Finely chop two onions and enough mutton to fill the Turnips, mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of well-washed rice, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a small quantity each of pepper and salt, mixing these ingredients well together. Stuff the Turnips with the mixture, replace their tops, thus forming lids, put them in a saucepan, moisten to height with broth, ^ put in a small lump of salt, and stew them gently. When nearly cooked, put in 1 wineglassful of malt vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and finish cooking them. Fig. 907. Stuffed Turnips. Arrange the Turnips tastefully in a group in the centre of a hot dish (see Fig. 907), pour the remainder of their cooking-stock round them, and serve. Turnips a la Creme.—(1) Put three medium-sized cut-up raw Turnips into a saucepan with loz. of butter, anti steam them for thirty minutes ; then add 1 pint of good bechamel sauce, mb through a sieve, and moisten with lqt. of white broth, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Heat it while stirring continually, and serve with i; breakfast-cupful of cream beaten into it with two egg yolks. (2) Procure the required quantity of small new Turnips, peel them, and boil them in salted water. When tender, drain off all the water, toss them about over the fire for a minute to dry them as much as possible, then put in loz. of butter and h table-spoonful of flour, ami mix smoothly in a small quantity of cream, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Boil them gently Turnips—continued. for five or ten minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Select small new Turnips, peel them, and boil them until tender in salted water; then turn them on a sieve, and let them drain thoroughly. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with £ table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed smoothly, then stir in 1 breakfast cupful of milk or cream. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it gently for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Next put in the Turnips, and leave them till hot again. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Turnips au Gratin.—Peel the Turnips, cut them into thin slices, steep them in cold water, then strain them. Butter a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, put in the Turnips, and cover them with grated Parmesan cheese. Prepare a thick white sauce with some milk and stock, mix some grated cheese in it, and stir over the lire till smooth. Pour the sauce over the Turnips, sprinkle grated breadcrumb on the top, put the dish in the oven, and bake till lightly browned. When cooked, serve the gratin in the same dish. Turnips a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Peel some young and rather small Turnips, and boil them until tender in salted water. When cooked, put them to drain on a sieve. Place a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan and melt it ; then put in the Turnips, with some finely minced parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Toss them about over the lire for a few minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Turnip a la Poulette.—Peel and wash the Turnips, trim them to a pear shape, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually sufficient chicken broth to cook the Turnips in. Stir the sauce over the lire till boiling, then put in the Turnips, add 1 pinch of sugar, and let them simmer gently until tender; then take them out with a skimmer, and put them on a hot dish. Mix the beaten yolks of two eggs in the sauce, and stir it by the side of the fire for two or three minutes; then pour it over the Turnips, and serve. Turnips in Batter.—Put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 pint of milk. Season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until it thickens. Then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiled Turnips. Continue stirring the mixture over the lire, and boil it for ten minutes. Cut two slices of bread off a tin-loaf, trim off the crusts, and toast them a golden brown. Butter the toast, cut each piece into quarters, and lay them on a hot dish. Pour the Turnip mixture over them, and serve immediately. Turnips with Cream.—Procure young spring Turnips, peel them, and boil them in salted water; when tender, turn them on to a sieve, and let them drain thoroughly. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with i table-spoonful of flour, and mix smoothly over the fire with 1 teacupful of cream and £ teacupful of milk. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, put in the Turnips, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Put them on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, and serve. Fig. 908. Turnips for Garnish. Turnips for Garnish.—Peel the Turnips, then cut them to any fancy shape desired, such as corks, balls, discs, &c. (see Fig. 908). Blanch them in boiling water for five