TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 524 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. the fire until boiling, then put in the puree of Strawberries, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and let it simmer for ten minutes Put a few ripe Strawberries in a soup-tureen, sift some caster sugar over, pour the soup in with them, and serve with a plate of macaroons. Strawberry Sponge.—Pick the tops off lqt. of Strawberries, mash them, and mix 1 teacupful of caster sugar with them. Put 1 teacupful of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with J pint of water, and boil it gently for twenty minutes, then mix with it loz. of fine gelatine that has been soaked for two hours in 1 teacupful of water, and remove it from the fire at once. Pass the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, and mix them with the syrup. Stand the bowl containing the above mixture on ice, and beat it for five minutes, then add the whipped whites of four eggs and con- tinue beating till the mixture begins to thicken. Pour the sponge into moulds, and leave it till set. Turn the sponge out of the moulds on to fancy dishes, dust a little caster sugar on the top, pour a little whipped cream round, and serve. Strawberry Syrup.—(1) Put 61b. of perfectly dry and ripe Strawberries into a bowl, pour over them 6qts. of cold water in which 2Joz. of tartaric acid has been mixed, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor carefully off the fruit, measure it, and for each pint use lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Pour the syrup into bottles, cork them, tie them down with twine, and dip the nozzles in melted rosin. Keep the syrup in a dry store- cupboard. (2) Mash the required quantity of ripe sound Strawberries in a vessel and let the pulp remain for twelve or twenty- four hours at a temperature between 70deg. and SOdeg. Stir frequently, press out all the juice, let this stand for about twelve hours, and add to each pound avoirdupois of the juice loz. avoirdupois of Cologne spirit or deodorized alcohol. Mix well, let this stand for twelve hours longer, and then filter through paper. To each pound of the filtered juice add ljlb. of best sugar, heat it to boiling-point, remove at once from the fire, skim well, and pour it when cool into bottles rinsed with a little of the Cologne spirit. Strawberry Tablets.—Boil 71b. of sugar, Joz. of cream of tartar, and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water for about ten minutes; then put in lib. of warmed butter, let the sugar come to a froth, and continue to boil to a weak crack. Pour in a little red colouring, turn the mass on to an oiled slab, add a little essence of Strawberries and a small quantity of tartaric acid, and when cool enough pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until it is quite springy; cut it into tablet shapes, and when it is cold it is ready for use. In summer it should not be exposed to the air, otherwise it will become stick}-. Strawberry Tart.—(1) Turn lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a preserving-pan with j pint of water, and boil it to a syrup. Put the whites of two eggs into the syrup and remove the scum otf the top till only the foam rises. Pick the tops off lqt. of Strawberries, put them in the syrup, and boil till they look clear. Butter a tart-dish, line it with short- paste, and bake it. When the paste is cooked, pour the stewed Strawberries into it, and serve. (2) Put 2qts. of picked Strawberries into a basin, add J pint of cold clarified sugar, the same quantity of Madeira wine, and the juice of two lemons; mix all well without breaking the Strawberries. Put the mixture into a shape of puff paste, previously baked, and serve. (3) Have a flat pie-dish lined with paste, spread in fib. of apple sauce, arrange a strip round the dish, and place it in the oven for thirty minutes only; remove to the oven door, dredge the strip profusely with powdered sugar, return it to the oven, close the door, and leave it for two minutes for the sugar to melt. Take it out, let it get thoroughly cold, then, with a spoon, remove half the apple sauce, and fill the interior with 1J pints of well picked and cleaned Strawberries mixed with 2oz. of pow- dered sugar. Spread 2oz. of apple jelly evenly over the Strawberries, and serve. Strawberry Tartlets.—(1) Put lib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar in a saucepan with a small quantity of water Strawberries—continued. and boil until reduced to a syrup, then take it off the fire and mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy or sherry. Pick the stalks off some freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and put them in the syrup. Butter some small patty pans, and line them with a good short-paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them. When the tartlets are cooked, turn the rice out, fill them with the Strawberries and syrup, and put them in the oven for ten minutes. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the tartlets on it, and serve them, accompanied with cream in a jug, if desired (see Fig. 684). (2) Line six tart-moulds with Jib. of puff paste, divide into them evenly 8oz. of apple marmalade, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; bring them to the door, sprinkle the edges with powdered sugar, return them to the oven, and close the door for two minutes so that the sugar melts thoroughly ; lift them out, put them to cool for twenty minutes, and take out half the marmalade. Pick and wash 1 pint of ripe Strawberries, put them in a basin with 2oz. of powdered sugar, mix well for one minute, divide them equally into six tarts, spread over IJoz. of apple jelly, dress them on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (3) Warm 2oz. of butter, whip it to a cream with 2oz. of caster sugar, then beat in four eggs, a little water, 1 pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. When smooth roll the paste out on a floured table Jin. thick. Butter some patty pans, line them with the paste, fill them with raw rice, and bake. Pick the stalks off some freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and make some syrup, mixing with it a little sherry. When cooked, empty the rice out of the crusts, fill them with the Strawberries, pour a little of the syrup over each, and stand them in the oven to warm. Arrange the tartlets on a dish, and serve them. Strawberry Trifle.—(1) Put lqt. of milk and Jib. of sugar in a saucepan over the fire. Beat the yolks of five eggs, and when the milk is on the point of boiling work them in and continue to stir till the milk begins to thicken; then, without letting it boil, take it from the fire and put it away till cold. Cut some slices of stale sponge cake and line the bottom of a trifle-dish with them, moisten them well with cream, over this put a layer of fine ripe Strawberries cut in halves and well sprinkled with powdered white sugar, then a layer of sponge cake soaked with cream, and so on, Strawberries halved and well sweetened and slices of stale sponge cake soaked with cream alternately till the dish is about three parts full, then pour over the custard. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth with some well-sweetened Strawberry- juice, pile it high over the trifle, and put small red Strawberries here and there among the froth. (2) Select some nice ripe Strawberries, and remove all the blemished ones; free them of their stalks, put them in a basin, strew caster sugar over, and leave them for a couple of hours. Soak a few sponge cakes in sherry, and cover the bottom of a glass dish with them; mash the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, and spread them over the cakes. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises and put on to a fine sieve to drain. Pile the froth high on the top of the Strawberries, and stand the dish in a cool place until the time of serving. Strawberry Vinegar.—Put 41b. of freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries into a large stone or earthenware jar, pour in