452 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.t referred to, see under their special heads. SIMMER.—The British cook has the advantage of this word over the French cook, who has nothing better than “ boil slowly ” wherewith to express it. The term is very useful as signifying a condition that is at almost boiling heat, but not quite boiling. SIMNEL CAKE.—The name given to a sweet, rich, flat cake (see Fig. 575) made chiefly in Lancashire, to be Fig. 575. Simnel Cake. eaten on Mid-Lent Sunday. The name Simnel is derived from the Low Latin siminellus—bread made from simila wheat-flour. The following is a good receipt for its manufacture: Beat lib. of butter with the hand till creamy, then add the well-whipped whites of six eggs; beat these together for a minute, then mix in the beaten yolks of the six eggs, fib. of caster sugar, 1 Jib. of flour, Alb. of well-washed and dried currants, fib. of finely-shred candied citron- and lemon-peels, Jib. of blanched and chopped almonds, 2oz. of orange-sugar, and Joz. of pounded nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice. When the above ingredients are well mixed, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy and a little water, and beat them for some time. Gather the paste into a lump, then roll it out, double it over, put it into a cloth that has been wrung out in hot water and floured, tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Take the cloth off the cake at the end of the three hours, stand the cake on a tin, the smooth surface upwards, and leave it till cool. Brush the cake over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven till the outer crust is hard and lightly browned. Take the cake out, and leave it till cold. SINEWS.—Tough tendinous parts of an animal or bird that are unfit for food, although they may be boiled down to form a gelatine or glue. SINGEING.—Some poultry are peculiar for the long hair-like appendages that protrude plentifully from the skin. These require singeing, and nothing can be better for that purpose than the instrument invented by Messrs. Fletcher and Co. (see Fig. 576). One end is con- Fig. 576. Poultry-singer (Thos. Fletcher and Co.). nected by means of a flexible pipe to the gas-pipe, and the burner consists of a capacious tube so arranged as to admit a plentiful supply of atmospheric air with the streaming gas. SINKS.—In every scullery, or other convenient part of the kitchen premises, it is usual to erect one or more Sinks or troughs fitted with drain-pipes and taps for hot and cold water. Sometimes these Sinks are of lead or zinc, in which case they are difficult to keep clean. Earthenware Sinks are better, but even they are liable to coat with grease from greasy water thrown into it, unless kept scrupulously clean. The Sink should only be used upon an emergency, all waste and soiled water being poured down a drain specially provided for the purpose. SIPPETS. —Small pieces of bread usually toasted or fried in butter, cut into shapes, and used to garnish dishes of hash or ragout. See Croutons. SIRLOIN.—The famous story of the knighting of this famous joint of beef by King Henry YIII. has long since been disproved by historical data, which go to show that this particular part was known as Sir or Sur-loin a long time before the reign of this jovial monarch, and it was also known as Surlonge to French cooks some time before that. In Johnson’s Dictionary we read that “ Sirloin is a title given to the loin of beef which one of our kings knighted in a fit of good humour.” Another authority observes—“ The joint has, in fact, attained to the dignity of a British institution, the theory of which even dyspeptic patriots are bound to honour. As a ruin lends itself to the ivy, so does an institution demand a tradition. The Sirloin had been long admir- ably fitted ; but a too literal inquirer, some years ago, cut down to the bone, and left nothing in the way of romance that should serve even a daw to peck at.” Another authority attributes the knighting to Charles II., but as he was born in 1630 this statement is at once refuted, for in one of the “Altliorp Household Books,” under date of January, 1623, occurs this entry: “ For a Sr. Loin, a rumpe, two necks, and a round of beefe,” &c. Then we have another version, which attributes the knighting to James I., as follows : “ During one of his royal progresses, James paid a visit to Hoghton Tower, near Blackburn in Lancashire. Struck with the size and excellence of a choice loin of beef served for his special entertainment, the King drew his sword and cried, ‘ By my troth. I’ll knight thee, Sir-loin! ’ ” But here again the historiographer comes to the rescue, for James I. was born in 1566, and in a certain old book of accounts is the bill of “ a dinner given to my Lord Treasurer on March 31st, 1573,” one of the items was “ a Sorloine of Byfe Vis.” James was only seven years old at that time. Another explanation is that the word thus written Sr. Loin and Sorloine did not necessarily show that Sirloin was intended. It is likely that Surloin is the proper form, and that it is derived from Surlonge; but another writer attributes once again the conversion to Sir-loin by knighting to King James, whose passion for weak puns is historical. “While the King sat at meat, casting his eyes upon a noble Surloin at the lower end of the table, he cried out, ‘Bring hither that Surloin, sirrah; for ’tis worthy a more honourable post, being, as I may say, not Surloin but Sirloin, the noblest joint of all.’” Fig. 577. Sirloin of Bf.f.f dressed for Roasting. The Sirloin consists of the whole meat and bone of one side, between the fore-ribs and the rump (see Fig. 577.) Two of these together—that is one whole loin of both sides—is called a baron. See Beef. SKATE (FV. Raie; Ger. Meer-Rochen).—The Skate {Raid batis) is a somewhat coarse-fleshed fish ; there are several varieties, known as Thornbacks, Tinkers, Rays and Maids, all frequenting the British coasts. Thornbacks are considered the best, and are at their prime during the autumn and winter. The Skate is a hideous, uncouth- looking fish (see Fig. 578), for which reason it is rarely offered for sale in its natural state, being mostly cut into pieces and crimped before being exposed on the fish- monger’s slab.