THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 595 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes —continued. gridiron well buttered, a plate containing 4 table-spoonfuls of flour seasoned highly with salt and pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of butter melted by a gentle heat. See that the tire is very hot and clear. Cut the Tomatoes into slices tin. thick, dip them first into the melted butter, then into the flour, lay them between the bars of the buttered gridiron, and brown them quickly on both sides. Serve on a hot dish as soon as they are done, putting a small bit of butter on each slice. Candied Tomatoes.—Scald and peel 4lb. of small Tomatoes. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a little water, boil well, and add the Tomatoes. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently until the Tomatoes appear clear; then take them out, and drain on a sieve. Boil the syrup again, add the Tomatoes, simmer for an hour, and drain again; boil the syrup for an hour, put in the Tomatoes, simmer for half-an-hour longer, take them out, flatten, and dry them in the hot closet. Put them into jars, cover, and let them remain until wanted. To improve the flavour, two lemons boiled until they are tender and cut into slices should be added to the Tomatoes. Devilled Tomatoes.—Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs; mix with them 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of powdered sugar and made mustard, as much cayenne pepper as will lie on a tli reepenny -piece, and rub in 3oz. of butter warmed till very soft; when this is well mixed, stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, put the mixture in a pan over the fire, and let it get almost boiling hot; take it from the fire, stir in two beaten eggs, return it to the fire, and stir till it begins to thicken, then stand it in hot water near the fire to keep hot. Take about lqt. of firm, ripe Tomatoes, cut them in slices not quite 4in. thick, broil them over a clear fire, lay them on a hot chafing-dish, pour the hot sauce over them, and serve. Dressed Tomatoes.—Plunge the Tomatoes into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes; drain them, and serve either whole or mashed with a small quantity of pepper and salt. Or they may be roasted in a Dutch oven in front of the fire ; if roasted they must be frequently turned. Pried Tomatoes.—(1) Cut half-a-dozen or so large Tomatoes into thick slices, dip them into egg well beaten with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and sugar, and cover them with bread- or cracker-crumbs. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter to melt in a frying-pan; when it is quite hot, cover the bottom of the pan with the slices of Tomatoes, and fry | for about ten minutes, turning so as to cook them equally on both sides. Put them on pieces of toast on a dish, and serve. (2) Choose very firm ripe Tomatoes, wipe them with a wet cloth, slice them 4in. thick, and cover with flour f seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a dripping-pan over the fire with enough lard to be 4in. deep when melted; when it is smoking hot, put into it as many Tomatoes as will lie flat in the pan, and quickly brown them on both sides, turning carefully without breaking them. When they are done, transfer them to a hot dish, and fry more in the same way. When all the Tomatoes are fried, pour out of the pan all the lard, saving it for frying Tomatoes again, and put in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter; stir them over the fire until they are brown, then gradually stir in 1 pint of boiling water, season with salt and pepper, and let it boil for two minutes. Pour it in a deep dish, lay the fried Tomatoes on it without breaking them, and serve hot. Qreen Tomato Chutney.—Cut sixty unripe Tomatoes into slices and boil them until tender in sufficient vinegar to cover, then let them get cold. Peel and chop Jib. each of onion and garlic ; put them in a mortar with fib. each of ginger and mustard-seed, and pound them until smooth, moistening occasionally with a little cold vinegar. Dry the pounded mixture in a warm temperature—the sun is the best. Make a syrup with 141b. of sugar, and mix all the ingredients together, adding 2oz. of dried chillies, fib. of stoned raisins, and another pint of vinegar. Stir Tomatoes—continued. the whole together until thoroughly blended, then turn the pickle into jars or pickle bottles. Cork them tightly, tie wet bladder over, and put them in a dry store cup- board. Green Tomatoes with Cream.—Trim the stalks off the Tomatoes, which should be gathered just before they begin to ripen, cut them in halves, put them into a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them slowly until very tender. When cooked, leave the Tomatoes until cold, then turn them on to a glass dish, pile some whipped cream over and round them (see Fig. 796), and serve. Green Tomato Jam.—(1) Pick off the stalks from 81b. of Tomatoes, put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly- pared yellow rind and the juice of four lemons and 2oz. of ginger, and boil them until tender. Then put in with the Tomatoes 7lb. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar, and boil the whole quickly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When reduced to the proper consistency, remove the ginger, and put the jam into jars, leaving it until cold, when cover with parchment; tie the jars down, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Cut 2lb. of Tomatoes into quarters and take out the seeds. Put 141b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a little water, let it dissolve, add loz. of ginger cut up small, set the saucepan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for about five minutes. Add the quarters of Tomatoes, boil until clear, put the preserve into jars, cover them, and keep in a dry place until wanted. This preserve has a greengage flavour and colour. (3) Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow fib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and 4oz. of ginger cut into small pieces. Cut the fruit into moderate-sized pieces, put the sugar and ginger into a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire until the sugar has dissolved; then put in the Tomatoes, and boil them gently until clear and the seeds look white. When ready, turn the preserve into jars; and when cold, cover and tie tightly down. Keep in a cool dry store-cupboard till required for use. Green Tomato Pickle.—(1) Procure fully-grown green Tomatoes just before they begin to ripen, slice them, and put them in layers in large jars, strewing plenty of salt over each layer. Let them remain for ten or twelve hours, then put them in a preserving-pan, adding for every five pounds of Tomatoes lib. of brown sugar, 4lb. of sliced small onions, two sliced green pepper pods, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, half a stick of cinnamon, and f teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, also lqt. of vinegar. Drain the Tomatoes, put them in with the above ingredients, and let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the Tomatoes are tender, turn them with their pickling ingredients into jars, leave them until cold, then paste stout paper over the top of each jar. The pickle will preserve better if the jars are small. Pack them away for use in a cool, dry store-cupboard. This is an excellent relish with cold meat or cheese. (2) Cut the Tomatoes into slices, lay tjiem on a dish, strew thickly with salt, and let them remain all night in a cool place. On the following morning wash the Tomatoes in plenty of warm water to remove the salt as much as possible, put them in a stewpan with fresh water, and partially boil them. Put 31b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of vinegar, 4oz. of - Q 2