480 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads, Soups—continued. put a little of the veal on each, moisten with cream sauce, and fold the paste over. Brush them over with egg, and fry to a golden colour in fat; drain them, and keep them hot. Put Jgall. of white stock into a sauce- pan with Jib. of lean beef and a bunch of sweet herbs, place the saucepan on the fire, anti whisk until the liquor boils and there is a good froth on the top. Clarify with white of egg and shells, strain through a cloth into the tureen over the veal rissoles, and serve. American Soup (a l’Americaine).—Put lib. of neck of mutton into a saucepan with fib. of split peas that have been soaked and 5 pints of water, and place it over the fire; when boiling, put into the saucepan one large chopped onion, half a carrot, half a turnip, and a stick of celery cut up into small pieces, also J teaspoonful of sugar, and boil gently for two hours. Cut lib. of tomatoes up into small pieces, put them into the Soup, and boil it half-an-hour longer. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the saucepan again, season it with pepper and salt, and boil it up once more. Turn the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Andalusian Soup (a l’Andalusie).— Keep simmering gently by the side of the fire 3qts. of stock, prepared as for thick Soup with clarified fish broth. Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of soubise puree the yolks of four raw eggs. Mix 6 table- spoonful of tomato puree with 1 breakfast-cupful of pike quenelle forcemeat, and season it with a little mild Spanish pepper. Shape it into quenelles, and poach them. Add the soubise preparation with the Soup, and stir it well; then skim all the fat off the Soup. Put the quenelles into a Soup-tureen, strain the Soup over them, and serve with a dish of poached eggs. Bagration Soup (a la Bagration).—Mix with some clear fish Soup half its quantity of reduced stock, boil it gently for twenty minutes, and skim oft’ all the fat. Mix a little curry powder to a smooth paste with a little milk, then stir it into the Soup, add the beaten yolk of two eggs, and \ pint of cream. Move the Soup to the side of the fire, and stir it for a few minutes, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Fry some fillets of sole and chopped vegetables in a little butter till nicely browned, then drain them, put them in a Soup-tureen, with a few crayfish-tails and bread fried separately and cut into small pieces, pour the Soup over them, and serve it. Baked Cottage Soup.—Cut lib. of any kind of meat into slices and put it in an earthenware jar, with alternate layers of slices of carrots.and onions; then put in 1 pint of split peas that have been soaked for one night, cover all with lgall. of water, season to taste with pepper and salt, and bake for three or four hours in a moderate oven. Strain the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast, or if preferred, croutons of fried bread. Baked Soup.—Cut 21b. of lean beef into pieces as small as dice; chop up into pieces about the same size one onion, one carrot, one head of celery, two turnips, and four tomatoes; add 3 teacupfuls of boiled rice, 1 teacupful of chopped cabbage, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and put all into a large earthen- ware jar; mix all well together, and pour over them 5 pints of cold water. Cover the jar closely, and put it in a hot oven in a pan of boiling water for six hours. Do not uncover the jar till the Soup is cooked. Bonne Femme Soup (a la Bonne Femme).—Wash four lettuces, chop them finely, and put them into a saucepan with one finely-chopped cucumber, 1 teacupful of chopped chervil-leaves, and a small lump of butter, with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents cook quickly for ten minutes; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in gradually 3 pints of veal stock, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the Soup simmer gently for half-an-hour. Beat the yolks of six eggs with h pint of cream and 2 teaspoon- fuls of sugar, then stir them gradually into the Soup. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with either sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soups—continued. Brisse Soup (a la Brisse).—Boil a few heads of asparagus till tender, then drain and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of chicken stock and 1 pinch of grated nutmeg; add the asparagus, mix them well, and then pass all through the sieve again. Butter a plain mould, pour in the puree, stand the mould in a saucepan, surround it with hot water, and steam it till set. Make hot the desired quantity of chicken stock. Turn the cream out of the mould, cut it into small equal- sized pieces, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or toast. The vegetables used for the cream may be varied and cooked in separate moulds, thus obtaining a variety of different colours. Brunoise Soup (a la Brunoise).—Put into a saucepan an equal quantity of sliced carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery, with a lump of butter, and fry the vegetables till brown ; then pour in a little stock, and boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze. Pour in the desired quantity of clear Soup and boil. Prepare some Italian paste, boil it separately, then mix it with the Soup. Turn the Soup into a Soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or toast. If desired, boiled rice can be substituted for the Italian paste, and rings of turnips fried in butter. Calia Cold Soup (Russian).—Peel, wash, and cut some carrots, parsley, and celery-roots into pieces lin. long, and at the end of each piece make an incision in the shape of a cross. Boil the vegetables in water for five minutes, then drain them, put them into a saucepan with a little broth, and boil gently till cooked. Clean and put three chickens into a saucepan with a small quantity of minced veget- ables, a bunch of parsley and fennel, and 1 wineglassful of the juice that has been obtained from some gherkins, and pour in 4qts. of broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently till the chickens are tender. Take the birds out, pass the broth through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till nearly cold. Skim the fat off the Soup, pour it into a soup-tureen, put in the cooked vegetables, the breasts of the chickens cut into collops, and 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley and green fennel, and serve it. Camerani Soup.—Finely mince a sheep’s liver and the giblets of two or three chickens; put them into a saucepan with a few carrots, turnips, leeks, parsnips, celery-sticks, and heads of lettuce, all finely chopped, add a lump of butter, and place the saucepan on the fire until all the contents are cooked. In the meantime, blanch Jib. or so of macaroni, by boiling it gently, skimming, pouring off the water, and rinsing with cold water. Put the macaroni at the bottom of the tureen, cover with the veget- ables and meat, dust over with grated Parmesan cheese, pour over sufficient brown stock, set the tureen in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and continue to cook until the macaroni is quite tender. Serve hot. Canneloni Soup.—Prepare some rich broth, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato puree. Boil some macaroni in salted water till tender, then drain it, put it in a soup-tureen, pour the boiling Soup on it, and serve with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. In Naples, where this dish is generally eaten on Christmas Day, very large macaroni is used, channelled on the outside and pointed at both ends, and these are called “canneloni.” Cappelletti Soup.—Put in a large saucepan 21b. of beef, lib. of fresh pork, the knuckle-bone of some raw ham, a fowl, and a calf’s udder ; add some carrots, turnips, and onions, put in a lump of salt, fill the saucepan with water, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire. When the fowl and udder are cooked, take them out of the saucepan, and leave them till cool; then cut the meat off the breast of the fowl, put it into a mortar with half its quantity of the udder, a piece of beef marrow, and the quarter of a boiled calf’s brain, and pound them ; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Bind the forcemeat with the beaten yolks of two