TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 517 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. Strawberries—continued. their height, and stand the saucepan over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan with the bottles off the fire, and leave them till a little cooled. Strain the syrup off the Strawberries into a preserving-pan, adding a quarter of the quantity of strained red-currant juice; boil it up and skim it. Quite fill up the bottles of fruit by emptying one bottle into another, then fill them up with the syrup. Cork the bottles, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. Compote of Strawberries.—(1) Select some fine ripe Strawberries, carefully pick off the stalks, drop the fruit one by one in some syrup boiled to 22deg., and let them just simmer; then pour them carefully into a basin, and leave till cold. Arrange the Strawberries in the form of an elevated cone in a compote-dish, pour the syrup round, and serve them. (2) Remove the tops from the Strawberries, pick out about a third of the best ones, put them in a glass dish, strew them thickly with crushed loaf sugar, and keep them in a cool place. Mash the remaining Strawberries with 4oz. or more of the sugar and the juice of one lemon. Mix 1 pint of white wine with the Strawberry pulp, then strain it through a fine wire sieve over the whole Straw- berries. Serve the compote with sweet biscuits on a second dish. See Fig. 677. (3) Iced.—Select some large ripe Strawberries, and arrange them in a compote-dish. Put 1 pint of marsala and 1 teacupful of syrup, hoiled to 32deg., in a freezing-pot and freeze it. When it has frozen till it forms icicles, pour it over the Strawberries, and serve. Frozen Strawberries and Whipped Cream.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them together for lialf an-hour. Put 2qts. of picked ripe Strawberries into the syrup, and boil it for fifteen minutes longer. Let the Strawberries and syrup cool, then turn them into the freezing-pot, and work them till frozen. Mix in with the frozen Straw- berries 1 pint of whipped cream, and serve them. Iced Strawberries.—Take off the hulls from some Straw- berries, and see that they are quite clean and free from grit. Weigh them, and allow to every pound of Strawberries fib. of white powdered sugar. Lay them in a deep glass dish, a layer of sugar between every layer of fruit, and for Hlb. of sugar pour over 1 wineglassful of any fruit juice" or fruit wine that may be preferred. Put the dish into a refrigerator and let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out of the refrigerator, sprinkle the to]) of the Strawberries with finely-pounded ice, and then with pow- dered white sugar, and serve immediately. Preserved Strawberries.—(1) Put 21b. of Strawberries at the bottom of a preserving-pan, pour over 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of red or white currant-juice, cover with finely- crushed loaf sugar, and again with a sheet of paper; set the pan at the side of the fire and let it remain until the Strawberries are slightly warm. Remove the pan from the fire, take the Strawberries out carefully with a spoon, and put them on a sieve to drain. Add a little more sugar to the Syrup, boil it to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), put back the fruit, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Take out the Strawberries, put them carefully into a basin, pour over the syrup, and let them remain for a couple of days. Take them out again, drain them, put the syrup back in the pan, add a little more sugar and a small quantity of currant-juice, boil again to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), put in the Strawberries, simmer lor a few minutes, put them carefully into jars, pour the syrup in so as not to quite fill the jars, let them get cold, cover over first with paper soaked in brandy then with thick paper or bladder, put the jars into a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. For preserving Strawberries only the largest should be used such as Carolina or Hanoverian. (2) Put 61b. of the finest lump sugar in a copper pre- serving-pan, pour in 3 pints of the juice of fresh red currants, and boil the sugar till thick, skimming it often. Pick the stalks off 61b. of freshly-gathered Strawberries, then put them carefully into the syrup, and boil them gently for fifteen minutes. Turn the syrup and Straw- berries into a basin, taking care not to break them, and let them stand till the next day. Strain the juice off the Strawberries into the preserving-pan, and boil it till reduced to a jelly, skimming it occasionally; then put in the Strawberries, anti boil them for a few minutes. Turn the Strawberries carefully, so as to keep them whole, into glass jars, and leave them uncovered for a week. Tie papers dipped in beaten white of egg over the jars, and keep them in a dry store-closet. (3) Strawberries for preserving ought to be large, of rather an acid flavour, and firm and Meshy. Take off the hulls from the Strawberries, and see that they are quite clean and free from grit; if they should be at all gritty wash and drain them; then weigh them, and to lib. of Straw- berries allow lib. of sugar. At the bottom of a preserving- pan put a layer of sugar, fill with alternate layers of Strawberries and sugar (let the top one be a thick layer of sugar), cover the preserving-pan, and let the fruit stand ali night in the sugar. Next morning set the pan on the stove without disturbing the contents, and let it gradually come to the boil; let it boil gently till the Strawberries look clear, being careful not to let them break, and skimming off the scum as fast as it rises. When the Strawberries look clear, take the pan off the stove, cover it while the fruit cools a little, then put the preserve into jars. When quite cold put a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on the top of the preserve in each jar, and cover so as completely to exclude the air. (4) Well wash lOqts. of ripe Strawberries, and drain them ; then put them into ten jars, each holding lqt., pour into each 1 pint of hot syrup, and put on the covers very tightly. Place the jars in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch each other, otherwise they might break, and stuff in between a little hay or straw. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, place it on the hot stove, and boil for five minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them in a dry but not cool place. Let them stand until thoroughly cold, then put them away until wanted. Preserved Strawberry Pulp.—Use in equal quantities some Strawberries called scarlets and seedlings. Pick the fruit carefully over, and press it through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar. Fill some bottles with the pulp, cork, and fasten them down with wire. Stand the bottles upright in a saucepan with water a little more than half their height, and boil for eight minutes. Leave the bottles till cold in the saucepan, then wipe them, and store them in a dry cupboard. Preserved Tinned Strawberries.—Pick the stalks off the Strawberries, and look them carefully over to see that they are all sound, as any rotten ones would spoil the lot. For every 4lb. of fruit allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with just sufficient cold water to keep it from burning, and boil for seven or eight minutes; then put in the Strawberries, boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon, and being very careful not to break them more than possible. Have the jars or bottles ready heated at the side of the fire, and ladle the fruit out into them. Cover each jar with three rounds of white paper, pasting each round down separately with boiled nour-and-water paste. The paper rounds should be cut larger than the tops of the jars, so to overlap the brim. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard.