TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 470 ior details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. truffles and gherkins. Prepare a forcemeat with any cooked fish, breadcrumbs, yolk of hard-boiled egg, boiled celery, anchovy, parsley, and chervil, all very finely minced, butter or bacon-fat, salt and pepper. Mask one-half of the Sole over with this, cover with the other half, fasten it up in its original shape with skewers, put it in a flat dish, pour over 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of fish broth, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Mayonnaise of Soles.—Put the Soles into boiling salted water with a little lemon juice in it, and boil them. When tender drain the Soles, lift the fillets carefully off the bones, and place them between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Next cut the fillets into as many small cutlets as possible. Wash and bone some anchovies, and cut them into small strips. Wash and remove the outer leaves of a large cabbage lettuce, cut the heart and remaining leaves into fine shreds, pile them on a dish, and pour some nice mayonnaise sauce over it; over this arrange a circle of the fillets of Soles, next a circle of the anchovies, and then a circle of stoned olives. Fill up the space in the centre with finely-minced hard-boiled eggs, capers, and anchovies, and serve. Paupiettes of Soles.—Skin the Soles, then lift the fillets carefully from the bones, and trim them. Prepare some whiting forcemeat, spread a layer of it on each fillet, roll them, and wrap each one in a separate sheet of buttered paper, keeping them in shape by tying string round them. Bake the paupiettes in the oven. When cooked, take the paper off them, put them on a hot dish, with a turned mushroom on each, pour over them some German sauce that has been finished with crayfish butter, and serve. Roulettes of Soles.—(1) Remove the heads, fins, and tails from some plump Soles, separate the flesh from the bones, and cut it into oblong fillets. Lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, moisten them with lemon-juice, and leave them for an hour. Roll the fillets to the shape of an egg, and bind them round with thread. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and make it hot; then pack the fillets in closely, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour in sufficient water to cook them. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents slowly at the side of the fire. When cooked, arrange the roulettes tastefully on a hot dish, pour their cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (2) Separate the fillets of the Soles, and trim them neatly. Chop some mushrooms, half their quantity of shallots, and half their quantity of parsley, and mix them together. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted put in the above mixture, and toss it over the fixe for a few minutes, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Let the herb mixture get cold, then spread some of it over each fillet, roll them up, lay them on a buttered tin dish, cover with another dish, and bake them about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, lay the rolls on a hot dish, garnish them with button- mushrooms, pour a white sauce round them, and serve. Salad of Fillets of Sole.—Prepare the fish as for Fillets of Sole en Mayonnaise. Fill the centre of a flat dish with finely-shredded lettuce or other kind of salad in season, lay the fillets of Sole round the dish, and serve with a mayonnaise dressing poured over. Any kind of salad garnishing may be used to ornament the dish. Sa/valada (Spanish).—Clean and fillet a pair of Soles, and fry fr|em 'u salad-oil; when lightly browned, take the fillets out of the pan, and put in two Spanish onions that have been sliced, and a little more oil. Toss the onions over the fire till cooked, taking care not to brown them; then poui in 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, add some slices of tomatoes freed from skin and pips and the fried Soles, season with pepper and salt, and stir the mixture oyer the fire till boiling. Turn the savalada on to a hot dish, and serve it. Scalloped Soles in Shells.—Put some fillets of Soles into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, squeeze a little lemon- ]nice and dust a little salt over them, and fry them. When cooked, press them between two plates till cold. Soles—continued. Boil some veloute sauce with essence of mushroom till re- duced, then stir in a lump of butter. Cut the fillets of Soles into pieces about iin. wide, and put them into the sauce. Put the above mixture into shells, cover the tops with breadcrumbs that have been fried in butter, and stand them in the oven for a few minutes. Put the coquilles on a dish, and serve them while hot. Soles a l’Anglaise.—Clean two or three Soles, put- them into a fish-kettle with a good supply of slightly-salted water, and boil for thirty-five minutes. Take them out, drain, place them on a dish, garnish with boiled pota- toes cut into shapes and a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with lobster sauce, with butter, glaze, lemon- juice, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. This may be sewed with Dutch sauce, if preferred. Sole a l’Aurore.—Clean a Sole, put it into a buttered baking-dish, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it for ten minutes in the oven. Take it out, lift the top fillets off, carefully take out the backbone, fill the cavity with a little chopped onion and parsley, put the fillets on again, cover the Sole with white sauce, and bake it a few minutes longer. Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and pass them through a wire sieve ; cut the whites into quarters. Put the Sole on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, sprinkle the yolk of the egg on the top, put the white round the sides, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 609), and serve. Soles a la Colbert.—(1) Skin and trim the Soles, and boil them. Blanch the hearts of four heads of endive, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and stir them over the fire till hot; then pour over them 1 pint of stock that has been thickened with yolk of egg beaten with a little cream, and add three or four poached eggs. Put the Soles on a hot deep dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin and clean two large Soles, chop off the fins, and cut off the heads in a slanting direction. Put the Soles into a flat bowl, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and add a seasoning of slices of onion, a bay-leaf cut into quarters, and a few sprigs each of parsley and thyme. Rub them every quarter-of-an-hour for an hour-and-a-half with this marinade. Take them out, remove every particle of the marinade, and with a knife make a cut from head to tail on both sides of them. Dip them into a basin of milk, flour them well, mask well with beaten egg, and cover them with breadcrumbs mixed up with grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready on the fire a pan of boiling fat, put the Soles into a frying-basket, and plunge them into the fat; as soon as they begin to colour remove the pan to the side of the fire, so that they may cook gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put them back on the fire for twelve minutes longer so as to make them crisp, take them out, drain oft' all the fat, and carefully remove the fillets. Put the bottom or underneath fillets on a dish, and mask them copiously with maitre d’hotel butter; over these put the top fillets so as to give the fish its original shape, pour round any thick fish sauce, and serve maitre-d’hotel butter in a sauceboat. Sole St la Creme d’Anchois (with Anchovy Cream).—Clean and boil a Sole in salted water till tender. Put U teacupfuls of white sauce in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white broth, and boil for a few minutes to slightly reduce it; then stir in ] table-spoonful of anchovy butter and 2 tablespoonfuls