476 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sce., referred to, see under their special heads. Sorrel—continued. the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the Sorrel stew as slowly as possible. When sufficiently cooked, beat a small quantity of butter into it, and serve hot. (3) Pick and well wash some Sorrel leaves, changing the water several times to free the leaves from all grit. Put it into a saucepan with a little water, and boil it till it loses its green colour. Drain the Sorrel on a sieve; when freed of all the water, chop it, put it into a stewpan, pour in a little gravy, add a little salt and pepper, and boil gently for half-an-liour, adding more gravy to keep up the same quantity. When cooked, turn the Sorrel on to a hot dish, and serve it. Stewed Sorrel in Cream.—Pick the Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Drain the Sorrel and chop it very finely, put it into a stewpan with a large lump of butter, and stew it over a very slow fire for half-an-hour. At the end of that time drain as much of the moisture as possible off the Sorrel, dredge it with flour, and pour in 2 2>int or 1 pint of boiling cream, according to the quantity of Sorrel. Let it simmer gently at the edge of the fire for an hour, then season it to taste with salt, and if the Sorrel is acid, a small quantity of sugar may be added. Beat the yolks of four eggs, pour them over the Sorrel, and stir until thickened. Serve while hot. SORREL BOUNCE. —A once famous drink made by soaking the leaves and flowers of the Hibiscus subdariffa in rum, and sweetening to taste. The flavour is acid and pleasant. SOT-Xj’Y-LAXSSE.—A French term for the tail or “ parson’s nose ” of poultry, so-called because, in their opinion, none but a fool would leave it. SOUBISE.—This was the name of a celebrated Prince who had extraordinary faith in his cook, who, in return, named after him a very fine sauce made chiefly with onions. See Sauces and Soups. SOUCHET.—See Water-Souchet. SOUCHONG.—See Tea. SOUFFLES.—These are described as dinner side dishes served hot from the oven, made of eggs, milk, and flour, or other farinaceous substances, beaten till very light, and flavoured with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. A Very fair all-round description, but quite inadequate to depict the many varieties that this modern French delicacy may be made to assume. They may be either sweet or savoury, and partake of various shapes, according to the utensil employed for baking it in, as will be seen from the following receipts, which are, to an extent, typical of others described under special headings, such as Apples, Apricots, Arrowroot, Fowls, &c. Souffles are usually cooked in flat metal dishes, round tins, or fluted moulds, according to the style, a very useful Fig. 615. SoufflE-dish with Loose Lining (Adams and Son). flat dish being one with a loose lining (see Fig. 615), the Souffle being kept delightfully warm by hot water in the larger vessel. (1) Mix in a saucepan 2oz. of potato-flour, 2 table-spoon- fuls of caster sugar, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and 1 teacupful of milk, and stir them over the fire till boil- ing; then put in loz. of butter, and continue stirring till the flour is cooked. When the mixture is cool, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, stir them quickly, and then Souffles—continued. add the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a Souffle-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake it for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Serve the Souffle directly it is cooked. See Fig. 616. Fig. 616. Souffle. (2) Slightly warm 8oz. of butter, beat it to a creamy consistency, and then add 8oz. of flour and 4oz. of caster sugar. Beat the yolks of six eggs, then add them to the above ingredients with 1 table-spoonful of orange-juice, and stir all together till well mixed and smooth; then stir in gradually the whites of six eggs that have been whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a Souffle-dish, pom the Souffle mixture in it, allowing plenty of room for it to rise, and bake it in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour or a little more. Serve the Souffle at once when cooked. (3) Put 3 teacupfuls of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it commences to boil stir in 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour worked to a smooth paste with a little milk, and let it all boil once more. Pour it into a basin to cool, then stir in the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and lastly the whites whipped to a froth. Pour the mixture into a buttered baking-dish, put it in a sharp oven, and bake for half-an hour. Take it out, and serve. (4) Put a little more than til), of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream, adding an equal quantity of flour and 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar beaten up with the yolks of seven eggs and a little lemon-juice to flavour. Beat the mixture until it is quite smooth, then add the whites of seven eggs whipped to a froth. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, half fill it only, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for a little more than half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve. (5) Put the peel of half a lemon into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, boil them, and add gradually 5oz. of butter rubbed into 6oz. of flour. Let this mixture boil up again, then remove the lemon-peel, and add half- a-dozen eggs beaten up with 3oz. of caster sugar. Turn it out into a basin, and when it is cold beat in the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Butter a Souffle - mould, arrange small pieces of candied peel or dried fruit at the bottom, pour in the mixture, cover the mould over with a piece of greased paper, put it in a quick oven for thirty or forty minutes, and serve it in the mould with a cloth round it (see Fig. 617). Serve a little sweet or brandy sauce in a sauceboat.