607 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads, Tomatoes—continued. in butter to flavour; add a seasoning of mushroom ketchup and cayenne, and salt and white pepper to taste. Boil well, remove all the scum, add a little lemon-juice, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. To improve the quality of the stock, previously boil a little ham and vegetables with it, and strain. (3) Put JgalL of stock or rich broth into a saucepan, add a turnip, carrot, and onion, cut up very small, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the vegetables are done. Add six cloves, 1 breakfast-cupful of Tomatoes peeled and cut up small, salt and pepper to taste, and a thickening of flour. Boil up, remove the saucepan from the fire, mix in a little finely-chopped parsley, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. The stock or broth may be made either of beef or mutton. (4) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with four shallots cut in pieces, a few peppercorns and cloves, two sprigs of thyme, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and Alb. of lean, raw ham cut up very small. F ry all these until they colour; add two dozen peeled Tomatoes, 3 breakfast cupfuls of rich stock, and a little essence of mushrooms; boil quickly until thick, pass it through a sieve into another saucepan, warm up again, turn it into a tureen, and serve. (5) Slice a small onion into a saucepan, add to it 2oz. of dripping, and let it stew till it turns a reddish brown; then add to it one dozen good-sized red Tomatoes, peeled and sliced, stir all together till it is very hot, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and pour in lqt. of boiling water; simmer for half-an-hour, then strain. Rub the Tomatoes through a sieve with the liquid, and return them to the stewpan. Add a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When it boils up, stir in loz. of butter rolled in flour; in another minute add 1 teacupful of boiled ice. Let it boil slowly for ten minutes, and serve. (6) Use eight or ten moderate-sized Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and scoop out the seeds. Put them in a sauce- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion peeled and stuck with four cloves, a clove of garlic, and a moderate quantity of allspice. Stir the Tomatoes over a very gentle fire, and let them cook slowly. When done, turn them on to a fine hair sieve, remove the herbs, onion, and garlic, and rub them through. Put the Tomato pulp in a saucepan with lqt. of plain stock, and boil it. Then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a small quantity of water and strained. Cut some small squares of bread, and fry them in butter until nicely browned. Then drain them, and put them in a soup-tureen; pour the boiling soup over them, and serve. Tomatoes with Spaghetti.—Pour into a saucepan 1 pint each of white broth and Tomato sauce, and season with 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Let it boil well for ten minutes; then throw in 4 pint of cooked spaghetti, cut about fin. in length; cook again for five minutes, tossing them well meanwhile, and serve very hot. Tomato Toast.—(1) Put a flat saucepan on the fire, warm it, and in it melt 2oz. of butter; add four medium-sized Tomatoes, about fib. of ham, and a little onion, all finely Fig. 807. Tomato Toast. chopped. Cook for about ten minutes, take the pan away from the fire, add four well-beaten eggs, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but it must not be allowed to get hard. This will be sufficient for three rounds of toast (see Fig. 807). It should be evenly spread over and Tomatoes—continued. served as hot as possible. The toast should be soaked in butter first. (2) Procure a sufficient quantity of green Tomatoes, peel and slice them, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of clear broth, and stew until tender. When cooked, mix with the Tomatoes loz. of butter, 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut some nice slices of bread of a stale, square loaf, toast them delicately on both sides, then butter them, and place them on a hot dish; pour the contents of the stewpan over, and serve quickly. (3) Cut some Tomatoes into halves, put them in a sauce- pan, and stew them until tender. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Cut some slices of bread about 7,in. in thickness, toast them a light brown, butter them, and place them on a hot dish. Mix the Tomatoes and onions together; when both are cooked, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and spread the mixture over the hot toast. Serve while very hot. Tomato Vinegar.—(1) Cut three dozen large, ripe Tomatoes into quarters, but without quite separating them; rub fib. of salt over them, put them into a large jar, and set it in a cool oven, or by the side of the fire, for a day or two. Then put in A pint of mustard-seed, a sliced clove of garlic, and a small quantity each of mace, cloves, and grated nutmeg. Pour over them 2qts. of boiling vinegar, tie a piece of parchment or bladder over the jar, and keep it in a warm temperature for six days, shaking it well every day. Aftei yards put the jar in a store-cupboard for two or three weeks; then strain the liquor, and when clear pour it into small bottles, and keep them corked. (2) Wipe clean three dozen large Tomatoes, cut them down in quarters, but without separating them at the bottom, and rub 3oz. or 4oz. of salt over them. Put them in a jar in a cool oven, and let them remain for a day or so ; sprinkle over a little each of powdered mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and 1 breakfast-cupful of mustard-seed ; add a clove of garlic, cut in small pieces, and pour in A gall. of boiling vinegar. Cover the jar, let it remain in a slack oven tor five or six days longer, shaking it frequently; and squeeze all the liquor into a basin, let it stand until it is clear, pour it into bottles, and put them by, corked up, until wanted. The sediment may be used, but should not be bottled. Tinned Tomatoes.—Owing to the great difficulty experienced in growing Tomatoes in this and some other countries, and the difficulty of keeping them fresh through the winter, certain enterprising manufacturers have established a flourishing trade in Tomatoes preserved in hermetically-sealed tins. In this state they are always available for use, although they lose something of their flavour by the process. Being partially cooked they require some modification in the receipts for their pre- paration, as shown hereunder: Tinned-Tomato-and-Okra Sauce.—Rub a large tin of Tomatoes through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix it up with an equal quantity of milk and water or stock ; add a little chopped onion and any dried vegetables desired, half a small tin of okras, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, cook the contents for forty-five minutes or so, stir in a lump of butter, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Balls.—Put 41b. of Tinned Tomatoes into a stewpan, with J table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion and flour, 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and moist sugar, and pepper, salt, and ground nutmeg to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a rather thick paste ; then turn it into a plate, spread it out, and leave it until cold. Cut the mixture into small pieces, and roll them into balls on a floured table. Dip the balls in beaten egg, and then in bread- crumb ; put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying- pan, place it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then put in the balls and fry them until browned all over.