537 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. an<l stir until it boils. Remove the pan from the lire, and with a spoon or spatula see that all the lumps are dissolved; put the pan hack on the fire, cover it, and boil the Sugar i to the crack degree. Take the pan from the fire, pour the contents on to an oiled slab, spread over it 3oz. of tartaric acid and essence of lemon to taste, say about 4oz., let it cool, and work it in the same way as dough, taking care that the lemon essence and acid are thoroughly incor- porated. When sufficiently stiff, pass it through a drop- machine, or cut it into cushion shapes; let them get quite cold, and put them into tins or bottles till required for use. Millefleur Drops.—For all Sugar drops the Sugar should first be sifted through a moderately fine sieve, and then through a very fine one to sift out all the powder that is not required in making them. Put the required quantity of Sugar into a basin, and mix in gradually with a spoon sufficient water to make the paste of such a consistency that it will easily drop from the spoon and leave none sticking to it. Pour the paste into a bright Sugar- pan, set it on the stove, and with a spatula stir until the Sugar is dissolved and on the point of boiling. Remove it immediately, stir in a sufficient quantity of essence of millefleur to flavour it, and with a wire in the right and the pan (which must have a lip) in the left hand, drop off small pieces, cutting them with the wire and letting them fall on thick cartridge-paper, a marble slab, or a tin or copper plate. This is the old-fashioned and homely style of making drops. Set the drops away to cool for an-hour and a-half or two hours, remove them from the paper or plate by draining the former, and by using a thin spatula for the latter ; pack them away in bottles or boxes, and keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Potatoes (Imitation). — Blanch 1 breakfast-cupful of almonds, and when quite dry grate them. Mix together 41b. of Sugar, barely 1 salt-spoonful of cream of tartar, and just enough water to dissolve the Sugar; let it stand for a short time, stir it well, and then boil it over a moderate fire till when a drop or two of it is put into cold water it forms a thin jelly ; take it from the fire then and beat it to a cream. Mix the grated almonds into this cream, and before it hardens shape it into pieces like small potatoes, roll them in Ipowdered cinnamon, and stick in here and there little bits of blanched almonds cut so as to look like potato sprouts. Rock Candy.—See Candy. Rose Buds.—Put 7lb. of loaf Sugar, lqt. of water, and \ oz. of cream of tartar into a Sugar boiler, and boil to the crack degree. Remove the boiler from the fire, stir in some rose flavouring, and turn it out on to an oiled slab. Cut off a small portion of it, and pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until it is quite white and spongy; colour the remainder with cochineal, making it rather a deep tint, and mixing it well in. Put the pulled Sugar on the top of the red, draw it out, and run it through a drop machine or form it into any desired shape. When quite cold they should be packed away in tins or boxes. A small quantity of citric acid added will greatly improve the flavour. Simple Candy.—rut over the fire together in a pan 141b. of treacle, fib. of brown Sugar, and 6oz. of butter. Boil until if a drop or two is thrown into a cup of cold water it will harden by the time it reaches the bottom. Have buttered dishes ready, pour a thin layer of the candy into each, and let it cool. It is better to make this candy on a cold winter’s day, as the colder the weather the better it hardens. Sour Drops.—Pour 4 pint °f water on 14lb. of Sugar, stir it well, and let it stand for half an hour; then stir it again, and boil it to the crack degree. Pour it on a fluttered or oiled marble slab, sprinkle it with citric acid or tartaric acid, fold it evenly in two, mix it well, and cut it into small pieces with scissors. Sugar Candy.—This is technically known as Rock Candy. See Candy. Sugar Favours.—Put lib. of finely broken loaf Sugar into a Sugar boiler with 1 breakfast cupful of water and 2 table- Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. spoonfuls of lemon-juice; skim frequently, and boil to the ball degree. Put in a few pieces of lemon-peel tied together (or stir in 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon when cooling), and continue to boil until the syrup is quite brittle when tested ; pour it out without the peel on to an oiled marble slab, spread- ing it well so that it will cool all over at the same time. Pull it by the aid of a hook fastened in the wall as described above, or on a board, flatten it out, cut it up into shapes, and let them get quite cold before pack- ing away. A slight colouring of red may be added to a little of the Sugar and boiled separately, working it in only a few minutes before cutting, so as to give a variety to the sweets. Sugared Flowers.—Boil some sugar to the crack degree. If when a fork is dipped in the pan it throws oft" the Sugar as fine as threads when taken out, it is ready, and the flowers may be put in. Rub the inside of some teacups with salad-oil, and put into each cup 4 table- spoonfuls of the flowers and Sugar; let them stand till cold, turn them out, and serve piled one on top of the other. Sugar Plums.—These are described under Caraway Comfits, a more elaborate variety of them being known as Dragees or French Sugar Plums. Sugar Ribbon.—Boil 71b. of Sugar and lqt. of water to the crack degree. When cooling, flavour the Sugar with any kind of essence preferred, and dissolve in it 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and stand the pan in a little cold water for the Sugar to set. Oil a marble slab, and ■when the Sugar has ceased bubbling pour it on the slab. When the Sugar has cooled sufficiently, turn the edges over to the middle, fold it, and work it with the hands till it looks white and has a shiny, silvery appearance. Divide the Sugar into halves, one of which colour with a little dry powdered carmine, leaving the other white. Work and twist them till quite bright, then put them together and roll the whole into a ball. Flatten the ball, and roll it out on some long rollers that are thicker at one end than at the other. Take the ribbon carefully off the rollers so as not to break it, and form it into knots and rings, &c. The shapes should be dried before putting them away. Sugar Tablets.—Beat up the whites of six eggs. Blanch 6oz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar, pound very fine, and add the whites of the eggs. When this is beaten quite smooth, add by degrees 141b. of powdered white Sugar and eight or nine more beaten whites of eggs, and stir all well together till it is thick enough to be worked with the hands without sticking to them. Divide this paste into two equal parts. Grate the yellow rinds of three lemons on a piece of loaf Sugar, scraping oft' the surface of the Sugar as it becomes yellow; when all the rinds are grated and the yellow Sugar scraped off" the lump, put this yellowed sugar into a mortar and pound it very line, then work it into one of the portions of paste. Colour the other portion red with cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of bergamot or roses. Then roll out each portion of paste separately on a slab sprinkled with powdered white Sugar, roll them to about tbi. thick, cut them with a paste-cutter into pieces about 2in. square, lay them on white paper on a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When they are cold take them off" the paper. Sugar - moulding, Sugar - spinning, and Sugar- piping.—These three processes might have been in- cluded under one head, as Sugar-working, if it were not that they differ from each other in many particulars, and especially from those which have been described under Sugar-boiling. The term Sugar-boiler is applied to the manufacturer of sweets such as are commonly sold in shops, under the various names of Drops, Bull’s-eyes, Cushions, Sticks, Balls, Candy, Paste, Toffy, Hardbake, &c.; but the Sugar-moulder, piper, and spinner is an artist in Sugar-working, and leaves the production of the popular delectables before-named to the journeymen of the trade.