668 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. with 12oz. of arrowroot, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of port wine, and lqt. of cold stock, stirring well for about five minutes. Now strain the liquor into another saucepan, put in the pieces of Turtle, then the green fat, and proceed as for the thick soup, but omitting the cayenne. Soup prepared in this way should be of a green colour and perfectly clear. (3) Take the under shell or calipee and cut the meat from it into quarters. Chop 201b. of veal, and put it to- gether with the meat of the Turtle into a large pot; add all kinds of herbs, carrots, onions, spice, peppercorns, two bay-leaves, a little salt, and Hlb. of lean ham, together with a very little water, and let it stew till of a brown colour. Put in the fins, first scalding off the skin, as well as the heart; half an-hour afterwards fill the pot with water and beef stock in equal parts. Skim the soup carefully, put a bunch of parsley in, and let it boil gently. While this is cooking, scald the head, the calipee, and all the soft parts of the calipash, and be very careful to take off all the skin, even the smallest particle that remains ; put them together with the gut into a large pot with plenty of water to boil till tender, then take them out and divide into squares, and put them in a basin by them- selves till they are required. When the meat of the Turtle is well done, take up the fins anil heart and lay them on a dish ; strain all the soup through a sieve into a large pan, take off the fat with a ladle, and put it into a basin. Make some roux thickening and mix it, first with the fat in the basin and then gradually with the soup in the pan ; then put it over the fire and let it boil for two hours skimming all the time and stirring constantly till it boils. After two hours’ boiling and skimming, squeeze it through a cloth, put it into another large stewpan over the fire, and boil it gently for one hour; then put in the heart, calipash, and calipee, the head, and some of the best of the meat, all cut into squares, and the forcemeat balls and the herbs that were chopped and stewed on the previous day; keep it gently boiling, and continue to skim it carefully. An hour and a half before serving put into it nearly half a bottle of brandy and a bottle of Madeira. Keep it boiling gently and still continue to skim it. Put a little cayenne into a basin, add to it the strained juice of six lemons, and let it stand for a short time. Skim the soup for the last time, stir it up well, and if it is not salt enough, add a little ; mix the cayenne and lemon juice into it, and ladle it into the tureen. (4) For each quart of soup, brown together, by stirring over the fire, 1 table-spoonful each of Hour and butter ; when the butter and flour are brown, gradually add the required quantity of strained Turtle stock, stirring con- stantly until the soup is smooth. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, add to each quart about half-a-dozen pieces of green fat, 4 breakfast-cupful each of the tender parts of the shell and the flesh of the Turtle cut in lin. pieces, 4 breakfast-cupful of egg balls, or a few Turtle eggs, and one dozen forcemeat balls if desired. Let the soup boil once, add to each quart 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice, and half- a-dozen thin slices of lemon, and serve it at once. (5) For each quart of Turtle soup stock to be clarified allow the white and shell of one raw egg and 1 table- spoonful of cold water. Mix the shell, white of egg, and water slightly in the bottom of a saucepan, pour the cold stock over them, and set the saucepan over the fire. Let its contents slowly reach the boiling-point, stirring them several times to prevent the egg sticking to the bottom of the saucepan; let the soup boil gently till the egg rises to the surface in the form of a thick scum, and the soup appears quite clear under it; then strain it through a folded towel laid in a colander, allowing it to run slowly through without squeezing the towel. If it has got cool in straining, heat it again, season to taste, and serve it hot with lemon and wine. (6) On account of the delicious quality of the flesh, the green Turtle is highly prized; but as it is so very large, it is usually sold in small quantities in tins. Cut off all the meat, leaving the green fat, from a can of green Turtle, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of brown stock, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Cut the green fat Turtle—continued. into small squares or dice. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan, warm it, sprinkle in an equal quantity of flour, brown it slightly, add it to the soup, and season well with salt and pepper. Put in the pieces of green fat, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, add a few slices of lemon and the required number of egg balls, and serve. (7) Put 41b. or 5lb. of Turtle meat into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of allspice and butter, half the quantity of black pepper, and salt to taste. Poui- over Jgall. of water, boil over the fire until the Turtle is nearly done, add two large onions and a bunch of mar- joram, parsley, and thyme tied together, cook until the meat is quite done, remove the bunch of herbs, add two lemons cut in slices, a little curry powder, and 2 break fast-cupfuls of Madeira or other wine ; thicken as required with flour, turn the whole into a soup tureen, and serve as hot as possible. (8) When all the flesh is cut off a large Turtle, wash it, and let it drain. Plunge the breast shell into a large vessel of boiling water, and boil until the plates may be easily separated, then take them up. Boil the back and the belly in water till the softer parts can be easily removed, but before they are cooked quite enough lay them in separate earthenware vessels to cool, so that they shall not stick together, allowing the bones and trimmings to continue boiling for some time. Take a large stewpan lay at the bottom of it some slices of ham, and on these lay two or three knuckles of veal ; over them all lay the flesh of the body, four fins, and head of the Turtle. Let the flesh of the body lie on top of the veal, and over it the rest of the flesh ; add to this a large onion stuck with six cloves, a large bunch of sweet herbs, such as sweet marjoram, sweet basil, parsley, lemon thyme, and green onions, add also a little of the liquor that the shell is boiling in, and let it stew. When it has stewed for some time, add some of the liquor in which the back and belly have been boiled ; when the flesh of the fins is stewed tender take it out and lay it aside. When the rest of the Turtle-flesh is stewed quite tender, take it up and strain the soup through a silk sieve, then mix with it some very thin white roux. Cut all the softer parts of the flesh into small pieces about fin. square, put them into the sou)), and let them simmer till the pieces of Turtle can easily be pierced with a fork, skimming it well meantime. Chop a small quantity of herbs, put them over the fire with a little sugar and four bottles of Madeira, and let it boil till the wine is reduced to one half its original quantity; then mix it, after rubbing through a sieve, with the soup, and let it boil for a short time. Make a forcemeat of lib. of veal cut from the leg and quite free from fat or sinews, and about the same quantity of crumb of bread soaked in milk until quite soft and then squeezed dry, and put it, together with the veal, a small quantity of calf’s udder, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, salt, and pounded spices, into a mortar, and pound all very fine. Mix them together thoroughly, then add and mix in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two. Throw a little bit of this forcemeat into boiling water, and if it does not cook sufficiently firm, mix into it the yolk of another egg. Divide the forcemeat into halves, and mix into one half some chopped parsley to make a variety. Make all the forcemeat into balls about the size of the yolk of an egg, poach them in boiling water, and add to the soup. Mix a little cayenne with the strained juice of a couple of lemons, and add it to the soup just before serving. If the fins of the Turtle are to be served as a side dish, they must be parboiled, skinned, and then stewed in a little of the soup mixed with about the same quantity of port wine, thickened with a little butter rubbed with flour, and seasoned with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice. Turtle Soup a l’Americaine. -Prepare about 2qts. of r ich Turtle soup, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of butter, add a sliced carrot and onion, about lqt. of button mushrooms, and a few parsley roots; let them all cook gently over the fire, take out the pieces