4 33 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. SHADS (Fr. Aloses; Ger. Alsen).—These fish have been described as fresh-water herrings. They migrate from the sea to the river like salmon, and at certain times of the year may be canglit in great quantities in most of the European and some of the American rivers. Of the European variety (Clupea alosa) the finest are caught in rivers in France and Germany; but, according to the most reliable accounts, the American Shad is far and away the superior. Mr. Frederick Wliymper, who has travelled for many years in America, says of it: “ The American Shad is believed to be by all true Americans a much finer fish than the European variety. That may be or may not be, but the form of cooking called a ‘ planked ’ Shad has been admitted to be, by all who have tasted it, as good as anything can be in the way of a grill. The fish, which runs to 18in. long, and often to a greater length, is split and cleaned. It is then cooked on a shingle, i.e., a small thin plank of fresh-cut pine wood. To begin, it is put near and before the fire; when the top side has been browned it is put on the grill, and the wood allowed to burn slowly round it. That the civilized American invented this is doubtful; it came from the poor Indian, and was one of the greatest efforts of his mind. In those of the New England States where it is known it is always served on the plank.” The shape of the Shad (see Fig. 550) is not unlike that of the herring, but it grows to a weight of some 101b. The body is compressed, the back rounded, and the skin is silvery with a reddish tinge. Extensive Shad fisheries are carried on along the Rhine and Loire, the fish being usually caught in May, hence the Germans call it Mai-fisch. The following receipts are for the most part French and German: Baked Shad.—(1) Pare and scale a small Shad, put it on a well-buttered, deep baking-dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper, adding two finely-chopped shallots and J wineglassful of white wine. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. When done, pour the liquor into a saucepan, add J pint of German sauce, a pinch of finely-chopped chervil, and a little spinach green; cook for three minutes longer, pour a little of it through a strainer over the fish, and serve the rest in a sauceboat. (2) Split a Shad down the back, wash and wipe it well, and rub it inside and out with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Prepare a stuffing with breadcrumbs and a little chopped onion, parsley, eelery-seed, salt, pepper, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Stuff the fish with it, tie it round, put it in a baking-dish with 1 pint of water and a lump of butter, dredge it with flour, and bake it in a slow oven for 1 i hours, basting it occasionally with the butter in the dish. When cooked, put the Shad on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) American Style.—Clean a Shad by drawing the entrails through the gills, and wash and dry it. Prepare a stuffing with breadcrumbs, butter, salt, and pepper, moisten with egg to bind and stuff the fish with it; place it in a baking-dish over slices of uncooked potatoes, pour in sufficient fish broth to moisten, cover with buttered paper, and bake. Serve with rich sauce or thickened stock in a sauceboat. Shads—continued. Boiled Shad.—(1) Scale and clean the fish, make incisions down the back with a knife, put it in a fish-kettle, cover with boiling water, and boil gently till done. When cooked, put the Shad on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a dish of potatoes. (2) Clean and scale a Shad, cut it across in pieces, rub them with salt, and let them macerate for ten minutes. Put some chopped vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, &c., in a saucepan with 2qts. of water, 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and a small quantity of salt; boil them for ten minutes, then put in the Shad. Place the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for eight or ten minutes. When cooked, drain the pieces of fish, put them on a hot dish, pour some caper sauce over them, and serve. (3) Clean and wasli five or six Shad, stuff them with fish forcemeat mixed with a small quantity of lobster butter, tie them into shape so that the forcemeat will not drop out, put them into a fish-kettle of salted water, and boil slowly for thirty or forty minutes, according to the size of the fish. Take them out, put them on a dish, mask them with lobster sauce, having the lobster- meat cut up into small pieces, and serve with boiled potatoes. Broiled Shad.—(1) Scale and clean a large Shad, remove the fins, and score it on both sides. Put the fish in a deep dish with some chopped shallots, parsley, salt, and oil, and let it macerate for one hour. Grease a gridiron, warm it, and lay the fish on it; broil the Shad over a clear fire, turning it occasionally and basting with oil. The Shad will take from half-an-hour to three-quarters-of-an- hour to cook, according to its size. When ready, put the fish on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of maitre d’hotel sauce. (2) The fish is split so as not to come in halves, and made to lie flat on the gridiron, which must be previously greased and heated. Sprinkle the fish plentifully with pepper and salt, and when it is put upon the dish, pour over it a little warmed butter, and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 551). Broiled Shad with Sorrel.—Scale and draw a Shad, one with a soft roe, cut off the fins, wipe it, and make incisions on both sides. Put the Shad in a deep dish, baste it with oil, season well with salt and pepper, and let it macerate for one hour. Broil the fish over a clear fire, turning and basting it occasionally with the oil in which it is soaked. Boil some sorrel as for a garnish, make a border of it on a hot dish, put the Shad in the centre, pour a little parsley sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Fried Shad.—After the Shad is cleaned and washed, split it down the back, cut out the back-bone, divide the fish into pieces about Sin. or 4in. square, and lay them on a clean dry cloth. Have ready a dripping-pan or large frying- pan containing hot fat Jin. deep, roll the fish in flour seasoned with salt and pepper, put it into the fat when smoking hot, and fry it brown on both sides; use a broad spatula or cake-turner to turn over the pieces in order to keep them entire. As fast as the pieces brown lift them out of the pan, lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from fat, and then put them on a hot dish. Serve with lemons, pickles, or cucumbers. Potted Shad.—Cut a Shad into pieces, pack it in a stone jar with layers of mixed spices and a little salt, fill the jar with vinegar, and tie a cloth tightly over it. Put the jar in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. P