THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 547 Sweetbreads—continued. frequently with the cooking-liquor. When cooked, drain the Sweetbreads, and put them on a hot dish. Warm some olives in the gravy, then arrange round the dish with some lemons cut into small pieces; pour the gravy over the Sweetbreads, and serve. (3) Clean the Sweetbreads and lard them with thin strips of pork. Steep them in cold water for a-quarter-of- an-hour, then put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil them for twenty minutes. Drain the Sweetbreads, leave them till a little cooled, then brush them over with slightly-warmed butter and dredge them with pepper, salt, and flour; put them iu a baking-dish, and bake them in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Boil some green peas; when cooked, drain them well and season with salt, pepper, and butter. Arrange the Sweetbreads in a circle on a Dot dish, put the peas in the centre, pour some cream sauce round them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Boil some Sweetbreads till partially cooked, then drain, trim, and press them. When cold, divide each Sweet- bread into bal.es, shaping them like cutlets, and glaze slightly. Cut some truffles into slices lengthwise, then cut them into strips; with a larding-needle pull the truffles through the Sweetbreads, leaving pieces of the truffles about Jin. long sticking up. Put the Sweetbreads in a stewpan, cover with clear brown stock, and keep them simmering gently till cooked. Put the Sweetbreads on a j hot dish. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold water, stir it into the cooking-liquor of the Sweet breads, season with pepper and salt, and stir it over the tire till cooked. Pour the sauce over the Sweetbreads and serve them. Mock Sweetbreads.— (1) Take some sheep’s brains, wash them, and fry well. Boil them well in some nicely-seasoned gravy till they are firm, but do not let them break. Remove from the fire, and let the brains get quite cold. Divide the lobes, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in butter or else toast them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve hot with a little good brown gravy poured over. (2) Beat fine in a mortar about Jib. of veal, together with 2oz. or 3oz. of suet or fat bacon. Mix in 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of powdered mace, pepper, and salt, and mix to a paste with the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of cream. Form this paste into the shape of Sweetbreads, and cook them brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve them on a hot dish with a little good gravy poured over. Ragout of Sweetbreads.—(1) Wash and partially boil the ! required quantity of Sweetbreads, then dry them. Mix a little finely-chopped thyme, parsley, and marjoram with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the Sweetbreads in beaten egg, then in the seasoned breadcrumbs. Shape a piece of veal force- meat like a Sweetbread, wrap it in a veabeaul, and roast it with the Sweetbreads in front of a clear fire. Put a little more than J pint of rich brown gravy in a sauce- pan with I table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and lemon pickle, and boil it. Arrange the Sweetbreads in a circle on a hot dish, put the forcemeat in the centre, pour the gravy over, and serve. (2) Boil three large Sweetbreads, and when cooked leave them till cold, then cut them into large square pieces. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions and a slice of ham. Cook the above ingredients over a clear fire for a few minutes, then mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour and stir till it begins to brown. Pour in gradually the liquor from half a can of mushrooms and the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads, and stir it over the fire till boiling and very thick. Put a small lump of lmtter in a frying-pan, and when it has melted put in the Sweetbreads and the half tin of mushrooms. Toss them over the fire till they begin to brown, then take the pan olF, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and add the sauce, straining it through a fine hair sieve. Turn the ragout on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbreads—con ti nued. Rissoles of Sweetbreads.—(1) Wash and boil two Sweetbreads for twenty minutes ; drain, and leave them till cool. Cut the Sweetbreads into slices, then into small squares. Place a chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter and fry it, then put in |lb. of ham and the same quantity of raw mushrooms, all cut into small pieces. Fry the above mixture till the moisture has evaporated, put in the pieces of Sweetbread, season them with salt and pepper, stir them about over the fire for a minute, then pour in J teacupful of stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce ; take it off the fire, and leave till cool. Roll lib. of puff paste out on a floured board to a thin square, divide the Sweetbread mixture into small equal quantities, put them on the paste a little apart from each other, damp the paste with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold the edges over the Sweetbread mixture, pressing them down with the lingers, then cut the rissoles with a plain half-moon-shaped tin cutter. Arrange the rissoles on a baking-tin, , brush them Fig. 726. Rissoles op Sweetbueads. over with beaten egg, sprinkle with crashed vermicelli, and bake. When cooked, pile the rissoles on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish (see Fig. 726), and serve. (2) Boil the Sweetbreads, then drain them and leave till cold. Put an equal quantity of veal and lean ham, about lib. of each, in a saucepan with a lump of butter, half a blade of mace, a large piece of celery, a finely-chopped shallot, and 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and flour. Stand the saucepan over the fire, and stir the contents for eight or ten minutes, then pour in 1J pints of broth and 1 pint of cream, and continue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till reduced to just sufficient to moisten the Sweetbreads. Mince the Sweetbreads very fine, put them in the reduced liquor, and boil for five minutes, then turn them on a dish and leave till cold. Divide the above mixture into small equal portions, and shape them into balls. Egg and breadcrumb the balls well, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the rissoles, put them in a circle on a hot dish, place a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Roasted Sweetbreads.—(1) Trim the Sweetbreads and wash them well, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. Place the Sweetbreads in cold water, then wipe them on a cloth, dip them in beaten yolk of egg, then in breadcrumbs, and afterwards brush them over with clarified butter, and breadcrumb them again. Run a skewer through the Sweetbreads, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When nicely browned, take the Sweetbreads oft' the skewers and put them on a hot dish. Put a lump of butter in a small saucepan, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. Pour the bulk over the Sweetbreads, garnish them with fried parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Put the Sweetbreads into lukewarm water, and let them steep for half-an-hour; place them over the fire in a saucepan of hot water and boil for ten minutes, then take them up and plunge them immediately into cold water. W hen well cooled, wfipe them dry, and brush over with beaten egg. Roll them in a paper of sifted bread- crumbs, let them stand awhile till the crumbs adhere pretty firmly, then brush over again with egg, and roll them in the paper of crumbs, repeating it again if necessary, till they are closely covered with breadcrumbs; then put them in a baking-tin, melt 2oz. of butter at the fire, and pour it over them a little at a time, so that it may soak into the breadcrumbs. Cover with another tin, and bake in the oven, keeping them covered, and basting occasionally For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads 2 n 2