671 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. them till they are very tender, then put them into a full quart of mutton broth skimmed quite clear of fat and made out of about lib. of scrag of mutton. Beard a dozen oysters, and put them in together with their strained liquor after chopping them pretty fine; chop fine also a large onion, a good bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, and a piece of lemon-peel, these last being chopped much finer than the oysters; add also a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover the saucepan close, and let the contents simmer gently for quite three- quarters-of an hour. Just before taking it from the fire, add J pint of Madeira and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour the soup into the tureen, and then put in a few well-seasoned forcemeat balls and a few egg balls. (5) Take a calf’s head with the skin on it, have it chopped in halves, take out the brains, and then put the head over the fire in cold water (the quantity of water must depend on the quantity of soup to be made); put in onions, parsley, lemon-peel, and sweet herbs, and let it simmer gently till the meat on the head is tender. Take the head out then, and thicken the soup with flour and butter. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, divide them into seven or eight equal, or nearly equal, parts, tie them in pieces of well buttered muslin, and boil in the soup for about five minutes. Take the brains, season them with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, heat them up with a small quantity of flour and two or three eggs, form the hatter into small cakes and fry a light brown. When the head is cold, cut the meat into pieces about Jin. or fin. square. Skim all the fat from the soup and strain it, put it over the fire with the meat of the head, a seasoning of cayenne and salt, add also sherry, and a small quantity of mushroom and walnut ketchup; let the meat get hot through, and pour the soup into the tureen. Lay on the top of the soup the egg halls taken out of the muslin in which they were boiled, a few forcemeat balls, and the fried brain cakes. (6) Cut a sheep’s pluck and milt into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a few vegetables such as turnips, carrots, and onions, 1 breakfast-cupful of pearl barley, a few cloves and peppercorns, a small piece of mace, and a lump of salt. Pour in 4qts. of water, and when it boils move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for five hours. Afterwards put in the head, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, take the head out and strain the liquor. When quite cold, skim the fat off the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again; thicken it with flour and butter that have been kneaded together, and colour a rich brown with burnt sugar colouring. Add to the soup 1 table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and let it simmer gently for lialf- an-hour. Cut the meat from the head in small pieces, and warm up again in the soup. When ready to serve, mix 2 wineglassfuls of sherry with the soup, add more seasoning if necessary, pour it into a soup tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Thoroughly wash a fresh calf’s head, cut off the skin without mangling it, so that the best parts may be re- served for different dishes after it is boiled in the soup stock; cut out the tongue whole, and take ,out the brains without breaking them. After the head is ' skinned, have it split so that the different passages and mouth can be thoroughly cleaned, and then wash the entire head in plenty of cold water. Put the bones of the head in the bottom of a soup-kettle, lay the skin and tongue upon them, cover with cold water, and place the kettle over the fire, where its contents can slowly reach the boiling- point; remove all scum as it rises, and when the stock is clear put in a carrot, a turnip, an onion peeled, a bouquet of herbs made by tying together 1 handful of parsley, a bay-leaf, a stalk of celery, and a sprig of any sweet herb except sage, and a dozen whole cloves and peppercorns, or a small pod of red pepper. Cover the kettle after adding 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil the soup gently for two hours ; then take out the head and tongue, wrap them in a wet cloth, and continue the boil- ing for four hours, keeping the kettle closely covered to Turtle—continued. prevent the evaporation of the soup stock. When it is done, strain, and cool it. When the stock is cool, take off the fat; cut the thinnest parts of the head in small dice ; make some egg halls, allowing J breakfast-cupful of egg halls and 1 breakfast-cupful of calf’s head for each quart of soup. Lor each quart mix together in a pan over the fire 1 table-spoonful" each of butter and flour, and stir them until they brown. Then gradually stir in lqt. of stock ; when the soup is quite smooth and begins to boil, add the egg balls and calf’s head. Put 1 wine- glassful of Madeira and the juice of half a lemon or half a lemon sliced into the soup-tureen, see that the soup is seasoned, turn it into the tureen, and serve it at once. The best part of the calf’s head may be broiled, fried, or stewed, and the tongue and brains served boiled with some sharp sauce. The tongue alone may he served boiled with any kind of boiled greens, and the brain made into fritters or croquettes. Receipts for these will be found under their appropriate headings. (8) Procure a calf’s head, the freshest to be had, and take out the brains. Clean the head well in cold water, using several waters, rinse it well, and then let it lie in fresh cold water for an hour at least. Put the head in a soup-kettle over the fire, and cover it well with cold water. As soon as any scum rises, which will be as soon as the water gets warm, it must be skimmed off. Let it come to the boil, and boil gently for an hour. Take the head out of the liquor, and when it is nearly cold remove all the bones and skin, and cut the meat and tongue into pieces about fin. square, not larger, and lay it aside. When the head is taken out of the soup-kettle, put into the liquor 5lb. of leg of beef and 5lb. of knuckle of veal, and as soon as convenient all the bones and trimmings of the head. Skim the stock well, cover the kettle close, and boil the contents for five hours ; then strain it and let it stand all night. Next morning take off all the fat. Peel and slice fib. of onions, and put them over the fire in a large stewpan, together with fib. of green sage, chopped, but not too fine, and Jib. of fresh butter; let them stew till quite tender, mix and stir smoothly into them Jib. of flour, and then add and stir in the skimmed stock till it is of the consistency of cream (the rest of the stock may be reserved for gravy sauces). Add to the soup in the stewpan salt to taste, Joz. of black pepper, and foz. of allspice, both ground very fine, and the thinly- pared rind of one lemon; let it simmer very gently for an-hour-and-a-half, and then strain it through a hair sieve. It must not be rubbed through, but if it does not run through easily knock the side of the sieve with a spoon. When strained, put it into a clean stewpan to- gether with the meat ot the head. Let it simmer, stir- ring frequently, for from half an-hour to an hour, or till the meat is tender, hut be careful not to cook it too much. Five or six minutes before taking it from the fire, add for each gallon of soup J pint of Madeira, or if the soup is to be of a dark colour J pint of claret, 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of strained lemon juice, the peel of one lemon pared as thin as possible, and either 1 teaspoonful of curry powder or J drachm of cayenne. Let it simmer for five minutes, pick out the lemon-peel, and the soup is ready. Have ready a dozen-and-a-lialf Mock Turtle forcemeat balls for a tureen- ful of soup. Brain cakes are also an improvement. To make them, let the brains boil for ten minutes, take them out of the boiling water, and lay them in cold water; take some dried savory or lemon-thyme, some grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt, pound them fine, and mix well together. Beat up an egg, cut the brains into pieces about the size of a walnut, dip them in the beaten egg, and roll them in the pounded seasoning ; make as much as possible stick to them, dip them again in the beaten egg and then in sifted breadcrumbs, fry them in boiling lard or fat, and send them up on a side dish. A veal sweet bread nicely cooked but not overdone cut into pieces about fin. square or less and put into the soup at the same time as the forcemeat halls is an improvement. (9) Remove the fillets from a sole, cut them into pieces, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter and a'