620 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces, dec., rejerred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. them over with salt and pepper, and baste them well with oil. Put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil them for about twenty minutes, basting them frequently with oil. Take them off when done, and put them on a dish. Put 1 teacupful of oil into a saucepan in the bain-marie, whisk well until it is frothy, sprinkle in a little salt and chopped parsley, remove the saucepan, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons, and stir well. Pour the whole over the Trout, and serve. (3) Thoroughly clean the fish, wipe it quite dry with a soft cloth, and tie it round with thread to keep it in shape. Melt :] 1 b. of butter quite liquid, dissolve in it 1 table-spoonful of salt, pour it over the Trout in spoonfuls till it is quite covered, anti let it stand in it for five minutes; then take it out, and broil it over a clear fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. (4) Clean the fish, cut off the fins, split the fish down the back close to the bone, and split the head. They may either be broiled at once, or after they are split they may be rubbed sparingly with salt, allowed to lie for two or three hours, then hung in the kitchen all night, and next morning broiled for breakfast. (5) Clean the Trout and split them down the back, and notch them across. Put a small quantity of olive oil into a flat dish, and mix into it a little powdered thyme, pepper, and salt; lay the fish in this, turning them over two or three times that they may be well oiled on both sides. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, not too hot, and serve them at once. Broiled Trout d la Maitre d'Hotel.—(1) Scrape and clean two or three Trout, cut them down the back, take out the bone, brush them over with butter, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them. Take them off when done, open them, put a slice of maitre-d’hotel butter inside each, and serve on a napkin, with slices of lemon and fried sprigs of parsley for garnish. (2) Procure six Trout |lh. each, clean and wash them well, drain them in a napkin, and make three incisions on each side. Place them on a dish with 1 teaspoonful of oil, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 small pinch of pepper, roll gently, put them on the broiler, and cook for four minutes on each side. Lay them on a dish, pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’hotel sauce, and serve with six slices of lemon for gar- nish, with any sauce desired in a sauceboat. Broiled Trout with Bacon.—‘Well wash and clean a Trout, slit it down the belly, and take out the backbone. Put Fig. 831. Broiled Trout with Bacon. a strip of bacon in the place of the bone, tie the fish into its original shape, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it. Place it on a dish when done, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 831), and serve. Collared Trout.—Clean the fish thoroughly, split them along the backbone, carefully dry them in a cloth, and sprinkle them well with salt, finely-powdered ma,ce, and black pepper. Roll each fish up separately, and pack them close together in a baking-dish, pour over them vinegar and beer in equal parts to cover them, put in some whole black peppers and two or three bay-leaves, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and bake for an hour. Croquettes of Trout.—Cut off the fillets from two cold boiled Trout, divide them into squares, cover them over with chopped chibbals or onions and chervil, squeeze over a little lemon juice, roll them up into croquettes, dip them into villeroi sauce, then into egg and breadcrumbs twice so as to have them well covered, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a good brown colour. Take them out when done, drain them, and place them Trout—continued. on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with parsley for a garnish. Fillets of Trout a l’Aurore.—Cut off the fillets from three Trout, form them into any desired shapes, such as hearts, put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and cook them quickly over the fire until they are done, turning them frequently so as to have them well cooked on both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over aurora sauce, or sauce made red with lobster spawn, and serve. Fillets of Trout a ITtalienne.—Put the Trout in boiling water for a minute, then peel off' the skin, split them lengthwise, and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a dish, and moisten them with olive oil and lemon juice. Beat some eggs with some finely-chopped parsley. Drain the pieces of fish, rub them over with flour, then dip them in the beaten egg. Put some lard or olive oil in a deep frying-pan and make it hot, then put in the fillets and fry them. 'When cooked, put the fillets on a sheet of paper to drain, and dust them over with salt. Prepare the follow- ing sauce while they are cooking: Put 4 pint of brown sauce into a saucepan with two or three finely-chopped mushrooms, 2 teaspoonfuls of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced Fig. 832. Fillets of Trout a l'Italienne. onion, the juice of one lemon, and pepper and salt to taste, and boil for fifteen minutes; then turn it into a hot dish, put the fillets in (see Fig. 832), and serve them. Fillets of Trout Sautes.—Separate the fillets from the bones, cut each fillet into halves, put them in a buttered saute- pan, season with salt and pepper, and fry over a brisk fire. Put 41b. of lobster butter into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper, and stir over a slow fire till well mixed ; then pour in 4 pint of melted butter and 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Stir the sauce well till thick and on the point of boiling, then move it off’ the fire. \\ heil cooked, place the fillets on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. Fried Trout.—(1) Select small Trout, well clean and wash them, and cut off their fins. Season 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour with salt and pepper, and roll the fish well in it. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a Hat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when the blue smoke rises, put in the fish, and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain them on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire, then lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the required number of Trout, and roll them in corn meal seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a frying-pan over the fire with enough fat in it to cover the bottom to the depth of 4in when it is melted. When the fat is smoking hot, put in the Trout, and quickly fry them brown all over. Take them up, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Pour out of the frying-pan nearly all the fat; put a breakfast-cupful of milk into the pan, and stir it until it boils. If the meal which adheres to the pan makes the milk too thick, add a little more milk. Let the gravy thus made boil for a minute, season it with salt and white pepper, pour it into a gravy-boat, and serve it with the fried Trout. If Hour is preferred, it may be used instead of the meal. (3) Slit open a Trout, clean it, wash well, and rub it dry on a towel or cloth. Do not chop oft the head, tail, or fins. Roll the fish well in flour, letting it remain in the flour-bowl for several minutes so as to get thoroughly