THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 439 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. lay half of them in the baking-tin, which should he rather deep, placing them one over the other and moistening each with a small quantity of the liquor in which the feet were boiled. Lay the pieces of meat on the pastry, and cover it with the remaining pieces of pastry, pro- ceeding as before. Put the pie in the oven, and bake it till nicely browned. When cooked, place the pie on a dish, and serve it. Stewed Sheep’s Feet.—(1) Boil for two hours three or font Sheep’s Feet that have been soaked in salted water, drain them, split them in halves, and remove the large bone. Put 3oz. of butter and I A- table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then stir in gradually nearly 1 pint of boiling water, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the feet into the sauce with a quantity of button-mushrooms, and boil them very gently at the side of the fire for about four hours. At the end of that tune, stir in the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with the juice of a large lemon and strained; also add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Arrange the feet on a hot dish, with the sauce and mushrooms over them, and serve. (2) Prepare and cook a few small Sheep’s Feet. Peel four large onions and chop them, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and place them over the fire, tossing them about until tender; then sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir in gradually 1 pint of milk and 1 teacupful of broth, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Stew the onions until tender. When cooked, divide each foot into halves lengthwise, put them in with the onions, and let the sauce simmer at the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls Fig. 560. Stewed Sheep’s Feet. of cream, and stir them in quickly with the feet and onions. Do not boil the sauce again, but stir it close to the fire until thickened; then turn the whole on to a hot metal dish (see Fig. 560), and serve. (3) Scald and scrape six Sheep’s Feet, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and put them over the fire until the water reaches boiling point; then strain it ofl the feet, cover them with fresh boiling water, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire. When the flesh is tender, drain, and bone the feet, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put the pieces of meat into a clean saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of their cooking liquor, and place it over the fire until boiling; then remove any scum that may have formed on the top of the liquor, pour in l wineglassful of sherry, season to taste with salt and pepper, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs. At the end of the twenty minutes, take the saucepan right away from the fire, let the contents cool a little, then stir in quickly the beaten yolks and 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. A small quantity of grated nutmeg may be added, if liked. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (4) Boil about 1 dozen Sheep’s Feet in salted water until the meat is tender, drain them, take out the large bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel three cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar with a small quantity of salt, and pound them till quite smooth; then mix with them the juice of four lemons or 1 wineglassful of malt vinegar, and stir the mixture well; then pour it into a saucepan, add the feet, and boil them for five minutes, stirring at the same time. Cut four rather thin slices of bread, toast them, and lay them at the bottom of a dish, Sheep—continued. arrange the pieces of feet on them, and pour over a little of the liquor in which they were boiled ; then place it in a slow oven until the liquor is almost soaked up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with the juice of a lemon and about 1 teacupful of the cooking liquor of the feet, turn them into a saucepan, stand them at the edge of the fire, and stir the sauce with a wooden spoon until thick, with- out allowing it to boil; then move it away from the fire. Pour the sauce over the feet, dust them over with a small quantity of pepper and powdered cinnamon, and serve while very hot. Stewed Stuffed Sheep’s Feet.—Scald and wash the feet, and leave them in warm water until all the blood has disgorged. Chop lib. each of beef-suet and fat bacon, put them in a saucepan with Jib. of butter, a bunch of thyme and parsley, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, two bay-leaves, the juice of a lemon, and a small quantity each of mace and allspice; pour in as much water as will cover the feet well, and boil the whole for an hour. Put the feet in the saucepan with the other ingredients, and boil them until tender but not overdone. Prepare sufficient quenelle forcemeat to stuff the feet, drain them, and stuff them in the hollow left by the bones. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the feet, cover them with some more bacon, pour over the liquor in which they were first cooked, ami stew them gently for half-an-hour. Prepare a brown sauce, which season to taste. At the end of the half hour, drain the feet, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sheep’s Head.—It must be acknowledged that a Sheep’s Head fresh from the shambles is a most un- sightly object; hut, in spite of that, with its tongue and brains, it is capable of being converted into some very savoury dishes. For every purpose the head should be carefully skinned, cleaned, and scalded, the nose cut off, and the eyes removed from their sockets. In Scotland, the Sheep’s Head may be considered a national dish, especially in the form of the inimitable Sheep’s Head broth. Boiled Sheep’s Head.—(1) When the head has been nicely prepared, remove the brains and steep it in cold salted water for half-an-hour or longer. Next trim it neatly, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover, and leave it on the fire until boiling; move it to the side, skim it well, and let it simmer gently until tender. Steep the brains in salt and water for about half-an-hour, then tie them up in a piece of muslin, and boil them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the brains into a basin, season them with salt and pepper, and beat them up with a fork ; put a plate over the top of the basin, and keep the brains hot. Put 1 scant table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and stir them over the tire until mixed ; then stir in smoothly J pint of milk. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and move it to the side. When the head is cooked, drain it, and cut out the tongue, which skin and cut into slices. Slice and fry about Jib. of calf's liver. Place the two halves of the head, with the cheeks up, in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the tongue and liver, pour the sauce over (see Fig. 561), and serve with the brains in a sauceboat. (2) Cover the head with water, and leave it for two or three hours, then drain, split it open, and remove the