TTTE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 55)7 For details respecting Culinary Processes, (Jtensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. (5) Wash and braise some Tomatoes, put them into a pan over a moderate fire, and boil them for half-an hour. Strain and press the Tomatoes on a fine wire sieve to extract as much of the juice as possible, which return to the pan, and boil until reduced to one-half its original quantity. Pour it into jars or bottles, leave them until cool, then cork them tightly. Stand them in a saucepan half-full of cold water, placing straw or rags between them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, and boil for twenty minutes. Take the pan off the tire anil leave the jars in it until cold; then take them out of the water, and store them away in a cool dark cellar till required for use. Preserved Tomatoes.—(1) Choose perfectly ripe sound Tomatoes ; three bushels will fill about four dozen glass jars; those with porcelain-lined tops and rubber hands for excluding the air are the best, and each jar should contain about lqt. The Tomatoes should first he put into boiling water for about two minutes, or long enough to remove the skins, and then skimmed out of the hot water and drained as fast as they are peeled. They should he cut in halves and laid on a hair sieve to drain, and when the sieve is full they should he lightly pressed to force out the juice, and then transferred to an earthenware howl. When all the Tomatoes are peeled and drained, put them over the fire in a porcelain-lined kettle or a new tin boiler, and stir them until they boil thoroughly; then commence to put them into the glass jars as follows, hut keep them boiling until they are all filled. Place the jars close by the stove on a table covered with a wet cloth; have a pan by the side of the saucepan, with a little hot water in it, and on the table another pan containing hot water. First roll a jar in the pan of hot water on the table, then set it in the pan of hot water on the stove, and fill it to overflowing with the boiling Tomatoes; at once put on the rubber, and screw down the cover. Place the jar on the table, and fill and cover another, until all are closed. When the jars are cold, the covers should again be screwed tight. The Tomatoes will keep best in a cool, dark place, and it is well to wrap each jar in paper to exclude the light. (2) Three-parts fill a stone or glazed earthenware jar with water, and dissolve salt in it till an egg will float. Put some perfectly ripe and sound Tomatoes into the jar, and cover them with a deep plate so that it presses them down, and keeps them from rising to the surface; in this simple way the Tomatoes may be preserved for at least a year, and will not require any attention. But before they are cooked, they should be soaked for some hours in fresh water. (3) Put a layer of Tomatoes at the bottom of an earthenware jar, cover with a layer of dry sand, and con- tinue in this way until the jar is full; cover closely to exclude the air, keep the jar in a dry cellar, and the Tomatoes will remain fresh for a long time. (4) Select the Tomatoes of a moderate size, and see that their skins are perfectly intact, for if there are any cracks in the fruit they will not keep so well. Put them care- fully into stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cover with vinegar, and cork them down tightly. Tomatoes preserved in this manner will keep good for three months or more. Before using them they should be steeped in boiling water for one minute. (5) Get some small-sized, quite ripe, and perfectly sound yellow Tomatoes, peel them carefully so as neither to break them nor spoil their shape, first pouring boiling water over them; then weigh them, and allow to each pound of Tomatoes lib. of sugar, and to every 2lb. of sugar one lemon. Slice the lemons very thin, and take out all the pips. Put the lemons and sugar into a preserving-pan with a little water, only enough to moisten the' sugar, and let it get gradually warm while it dissolves; when quite melted, let it boil till it is clear, taking off any scum that rises; when clear, put in the Tomatoes and let them boil slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Then take the pan off the stove, let it cool a little, and put the preserve into jars; when quite cold, lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, Tomatoes—continued. and cover so as to exclude the air with a piece of paper dipped in slightly-beaten white of egg. (0) Select perfectly sound and ripe Tomatoes, cut off the stalks and the green part that surrounds them, and throw them out of hand into boiling salted water. Next drain the water off them and scoop out the seeds through the hollow left by the stalks. Pack them closely in tins, leaving about Jin. clear space at the top, and solder the lids on at once. Stand the tins in a saucepan of water and boil for half an-hour. At the end of that tune take the tins out, and when cold pack them away till required for use. (7) Well wash some large, ripe Tomatoes, drain them, cut them transversely across, put them in an earthenware vessel with the skin side downwards, and sprinkle over some salt. Continue in this way with the layers until the vessel is full or all the Tomatoes used up. Let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours, pour off the juice and as many of the seeds as possible, and throw them away. Put the Tomatoes into a saucepan with the skin side downwards, and boil them very slowly until they are re- duced to a pulp. Bub them through a sieve to remove the skins, put the pulp back into the saucepan, season well with cayenne and a little more salt, if required, set the pan on a slow fire, and cook for about two hours, or until quite thick, stirring well to prevent their burning. Turn the pulp out on to fiat dishes, let it get cold, then dry it either in the sun or in a very slack oven; put it when very dry into jars, cork them down securely to ex- clude the air, and put them away in a dry place to prevent the pulp from getting mouldy. It will keep good for a year or more, and a piece about Jin. thick and 3in. square will be sufficient to flavour lgall. of soup. Should it be required for sauce, it will have to be soaked in warm water, and mixed up with breadcrumbs rubbed in butter, and will only require a few minutes’ cooking. (8) SWEET.—Scald and peel 3111). of Tomatoes, put them into a jar with an equal weight of sugar, and let them remain for twelve or fifteen hours. Take out the Tomatoes, put the sugar into the sugar-boiler, and boil to a syrup (see Sugar-boiling), skimming as required; put the Tomatoes in, boil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, take them out, put them into jars or wide-moutlied bottles, boil the syrup until it is thick, pour it over the Tomatoes, place a few slices of lemon on the top, and let the preserve remain in a cool, dry place until wanted. Preserved Tomato Juice.—Slice the Tomatoes, put them into a stewpan, and let them simmer over a slow fire until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn them on to a fine silk sieve, and press all the juice from them into a bowl; put the juice in the stewpan, and boil it over a gentle fire until it thickens. Next pour it into small bottles, stand them in a stewpan with cold water to their necks, and put them over the fire. When the water has boiled for about five minutes, move the stewpan off, and let the bottles stand in it until cold. ■* Afterwards cork the bottles down tightly, seal them, and keep them in a dry store- cupboard. Savoury Tomatoes.—Cut six large Tomatoes into halves, scoop out their pulp, which put in a basin, mix with it 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumbs and 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, season the mixture with salt, 1 scant teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, but do not make it too liquid. Fill the halves of Tomatoes with the mixture, stand them in a baking-dish, and put a thin round of unsmoked bacon on the top of each. Put