614 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Trifles—continued. (3) Lay some pieces of sponge cake or sponge biscuits in a trifle-dish, and pour over them sufficient sweet white wine to soak them. Whisk together 3 table-spoonfuls of white wine, 1 J pints of cream, and 1 table-spoonful of sugar, to a good stiff' froth. Put a layer of preserved strawberries, raspberries, or any other fruit over the soaked sponge cake in the dish, pile over this the froth of the whisked cream, and pour the rest of the cream into the bottom of the dish. Garnish it with flowers. (4) Put at the bottom of a trifle-dish some macaroons and ratafia biscuits, and soak them well with raisin wine. When they have absorbed the wine, pour over them a very rich cold custard 2in. tldck, over that a layer of raspberry jam, and pile high over it whipped cream mixed with white of egg beaten to a stiff froth and flavoured with grated lemon-peel, raisin wine, and powdered white sugar. Both the cream and custard ought to be made the previous day. (5) Put 6oz. of macaroons into a dish, soak them in white wine, pour over them 1 pint of rich custard on top, lay a little whipped cream round, and garnish according to fancy. (61 Lay in the centre of a large dish or plate as many macaroons and ratafias as will be required for the Trifle. Blanch and pound as many sweet almonds as are required, add them to the cakes on the dish, together with some raspberry jam, currant jelly, and candied orange-peel and citron cut into small pieces ; turn down over these a good-sized sieve, letting it rest on the plate or dish. Add to the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon half a grated nutmeg and h pint of wine, and mix together; then add 3 pints of rich cream, sweetened to taste with powdered white sugar. Whisk this to froth, laying the froth on the sieve as fast as it forms, letting the cream that drains from it soak the cakes underneath. When the cream is all whisked into froth, and the cakes under the sieve have absorbed all the cream that has drained from the froth, lift the sieve, and lay the contents of the dish on a dish in which the Trifle is to be served ; pile the froth high over it, and stick on little slices of candied orange-peel, lemon- peel, citron, and nonpareils. (7) Put a layer of ratafias and a layer of macaroons in a glass dish, pour over them 1 wineglassful of sherry and about § wineglassful of brandy, spread a layer of quince jelly over the top, and set the dish in a cool pantry. Prepare a rich nicely flavoured custard, and when it is quite cold, pour it over the contents of the glass dish. Mix with 1 J pints of thick cream the strained juice of one lemon and the grated peel of half a one ; add 1 wine- I glassful of noyau, J wineglassful of white wine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, which skim off the top as it rises, and put it on a fine sieve to drain. Keep the cream in a cool place for a few hours, then pile it over the top of the Trifle, and serve. If liked, the Trifle can be very prettily ornamented with crystallised cherries and angelica, cut in strips or fancy shaped pieces. Cold Savoury Trifle.—Cut a slice about lin. thick off a stale loaf, trim it to a square shape, removing all the crust, and make a hollow in the centre. Put a large piece of lard in a frying-pan, and when it boils, put in the bread, ■ and fry it a pale golden brown. Then put it on a sieve to drain. Roughly chop the flesh of a lobster; prepare a nice fresh salad, and place it in a dish. Fill the hollow of the croustade with the lobster, put it in the centre of the salad, and pour over a nicely-flavoured mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the dish prettily with various shapes cut out of whites of hard-boiled eggs, carrots, and beetroot, and serve. Moulded Swiss Trifle.—Put one dozen ratifias, half -a-dozen macaroons, and a large sponge cake in a deep tlisli, and pour over them a mixture of J pint of sherry, 1 wine- glassful of ram, and 1 wineglassful of brandy; stand the dish in a cool place, and leave the cake until soft. Arrange alternate layers in a mould of the soaked cakes, any kind of preserve, and plain biscuits. Press the contents of the mould occasionally, and drain off any superfluous moisture by putting in a small plate or saucer. Rub 3oz. of loaf Trifles—continued. sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, put it with Joz. of isinglass into a small enamelled saucepan, pour in 1 scant breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and stir it over a gentle fire till at the point of boiling; then move it at once to the side. When somewhat cooled, mix the juice of half a lemon with the cream, and strain it. Pour the cream over the contents of the mould, and stand it on ice for an hour or two. Prepare a rich custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Trifle out of the mould on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. An extremely pretty supper dish. Old-fashioned Trifle.—Make lqt. of custard, and leave it until cold. Put a large moulded sponge cake in a glass dish with jib. of ratafias round it; strew over the ratafias some blanched and finely-shred almonds, chopped candied angelica, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; over that spread a layer of red-currant jelly, and then a layer of rasp- berry jam, and moisten the whole with J pint of sherry and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Leave this until the cake has soaked up the wine, then pour the custard round it, and stand the dish on ice. Grate the rind of one lemon into a basin, then squeeze in the juice, and add 4oz. of sugar and 1 wineglassful each of sherry and brandy ; with these mix in gradually 11 pints of cream, and whisk it well, taking off the froth as it rises to the top, and Fig. 822. Old-fashioned Trifle. placing it on sieves to drain. When all the cream is thus frothed, stand the sieve on ice. When ready to serve the Trifle, pile the frothed cream round the cake, garnish with macaroons (see Fig. 822), and serve. Queen of Trifles.—Lay Jib. of lady fingers or square sponge cakes at the bottom of a trifle-dish; pour over them, a spoonful at a time, 1 glass of brandy, lay over them, a thin layer of fruit jelly or jam, strew over this Jib. of crystallised fruit chopped fine, on top of this put a layer of macaroons (about Jib.), moisten them with 1 glass of sherry, and cover them with a thick layer of jam or sweet fruit jelly. Set the dish in a cool place, and let the wine and brandy soak into the cakes. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound them to a paste, adding a little rose-water to prevent their oiling. Scald 1 pint of milk, and when very hot put the almond paste into it. Keep stirring it for one minute, and then stir in the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, with Jib. of powdered white sugar. Keep on stirring for three minutes longer, and then add 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold milk. Still continue stirring till the custard has thickened well, and then take it from the fire and beat it for awhile, or else pour it backwards and forwards from one jug to another several times, to prevent lumps from forming as it cools. Sweeten 1 pint of rich cream to taste with powdered white sugar and whisk it to a stiff froth. When the custard is quite cold, pour it over the soaked macaroons, &c., in the trifle-dish, and pile high over it the whipped cream. Savoury Trifle.—Finely chop Jib. of either cold coowed game, chicken, or veal, put it in a small saucepan with half the quantity of finely-chopped pickled mushrooms and 1 breakfast-cupful of thick-cream, season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until very hot. Cut four