THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 506 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sponge Cake—continued. nice sliap? with a knife. Arrange the poached eggs round the dish with the cakes, alternating the colours, then sift some powdered sweet biscuits over and round the snow cakes, and next over all strew the ground popcorn. SPOONS (Fr. Cuillers; Ger. Loffel).-These are implements consisting of small bowls with a handle. From, what can be gathered of their history, the first Spoons used were probably shells without handles, this very convenient elongation of the holding part following as a matter of course, prompted by personal ex- perience. The Spoons most interesting to the cook are those used in the kitchen, and these are sufficiently numerous to be worthy of special description. Dippers and ladles are Spoons on a large scale; but the Spoon proper was usually an egg-shaped, or round, shallow bowl. They may be of metal, wood, or horn, the latter being useful only for dealing with cold dry food, such as sugar, Hour, or spices. Ingenious cooks have invented for their own use, and others after, special combinations merely for the sake of convenience. Thus they have a Spoon and fork (see Fig. 647a), a Spoon and slice (see Fig. 647b), two Spoons of different sizes (see Fig. 647c), and a perforated Spoon (see Fig. 647d), for taking solids out of liquids. Wooden Spoons in all sizes are used for many purposes, such as preserving fruit and mixing acid sauces, &c., because they are not affected by acid; but since the introduction of electro-plate, nickel, and some other metals which are not affected by acid either, the wooden Spoon, at all times very ungainly, has been, to a very great extent, supplanted. Metal is certainly much easier to clean, and not so likely to retain odours or flavours. A recent invention is the chef’s Spoon (see Fig. 648), invented by Tessier, a very eminent chef practising in this country. The rounded end and deep bowl render it very useful for tasting purposes. The manufacturers (Messrs. Temple and Crook) make three of various sizes, Fig. 648. Chef’s SrooN. increasing by inches from 6in. long to 16in. To the same firm we are indebted for the introduction of a new metal for Spoons, which is cheap and durable, besides being unaffected by acids. It is described as a “ composite aluminium,” and is stated to be “ better than silver.” It does not discolour by use, and being a bad conductor of heat, remains comparatively cool when being used even in boiling sauces. It is as hard as steel, and Spoons—continued. needs no electro-plating or turning to improve it, either for appearance or utility. Of the Spoons used at table it is almost unnecessary to give any details, as they are all too numerous and varied Fig. 649. Spoon-warmer (Adams and Son). in workmanship and design. There are, however, certain standard sizes which require special mention, as they are used to measure ingredients in cookery. There are the saltspoon, teaspoon, dessert-spoon, table-spoon, and some- times a gravy-spoon or small ladle. The relative capacities are: 1 saltspoonful equals \ teaspoonful 1 teaspoonful ,, ), dessert spoonful 1 dessert spoonful ,, h table spoonful 1 table-spoonful ,, 4 gravy-spoonful 4 table-spoonfuls equal 1 gill. These relative quantities refer chiefly to liquid measure; in dry measure some differences would occur, according to the peculiarities of the ingredient so measured. Under certain conditions of table-service it is considered im- portant that the Spoons used should be warmed. Some gourmets regard such a provision as an important part of the routine ; and, although the condition might be brought about by standing the Spoons in a jug of warm water, some of our table-ware manufacturers have contrived Spoon-warmers of a very ornamental character (see Fig. 649). See Weights and Measures. SPOT.—The name of an American fish (Liostomus xanthurus) caught along the coast of the United States. It is a deep-bodied fish, averaging 9in. or so in length, and remarkable for a black spot behind the shoulder, and fifteen oblique dark bars on the sides. Some- times it is called Goody, or Old Wife amongst other popular names. The flesh is delicate, white, and well flavoured, being delicious when broiled, stewed, or baked. Fig. 650. Sprat. J SPRATS (Fr. Sprats; Ger. Sprotten).—A great deal of very natural confusion has been incurred concern- ing the identity, or rather distinction from others, of this fish. The Sprat proper (Clupea sprattus) is a small fish (see Fig. 650) of the herring species, and, like that fish, teems with a strongly-flavoured oil. It differs from the sardine more in this matter of flavour than other characteristics, and is therefore a convenient substitute for them. When used to impersonate anchovies, as it is understood Sprats sometimes do, especially in the manu- facture of cheap “ anchovy essence, or sauce,” the taste of the oil would be sure to betray their presence.