THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 523 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec. , referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. Din. in diameter and lin. high. Divide the preparation equally into the three rings, and place them in a moderate oven to hake for thirty minutes. Remove, and allow the cakes thirty minutes more to cool. Lift up the paper with the cakes, turn it upside-down on the table, remove the paper, and detach the cakes from the rings by passing a knife all round. Pick and clean thoroughly 3 pints of ripe Strawberries. Have a dessert-dish with a fancy paper over, lay one of the cakes on top of this, spread over evenly 2 table spoonfuls of whipped cream, and cover with half the Strawberries, evenly divided. Sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar, and cover with another cake; spread over the same quantity of cream as before, arrange the other half of the Strawberries on top, dredge again with powdered sugar, and lay the last cake over all, sprinkling with more sugar. Slide down a tube into a pastry-bag, put into it 6 table-spoonfuls of whipped vanilla cream, with it decorate the top of the cake in an artistic manner, and serve. (5) Warm loz. of butter on a -plate, then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat it to a cream; acid one well-beaten egg. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Hour, and add it to the beaten butter, &c. ; then stir them all together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk in which 1 teaspoonful of bicar- bonate of soda has been dissolved. Turn the mixture into a buttered baking dish, and bake it in a quick oven. When the cake is cooked, leave it till cold. Put 3 table-spoon- fuls of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with 14 table- spoonfuls of water, and boil it to a syrup. Pick the tops off some ripe Strawberries, put them in the syrup, crush them, and leave till cold. Cut the cake into three pieces. Cover one layer of cake with Strawberries, put a layer of cake on the top, cover that also with Strawberries, then cover with the remaining piece of cake. Put the cake on a glass oi fancy dish, dust some caster sugar over, and serve. Strawberry Shrub.—(1) Hull 12lb. of ripe Strawberries, crush and mash them, and squeeze the juice from them through a cloth. Put the juice in a pan over the fire together with the strained juice of six lemons, bring it quickly to the boil, and let it boil fast for five minutes ; then add Gib. of loaf sugar, and when this has melted let it boil for five minutes longer. Take it from the fire, let it cool, skimming it as it cools, and when it is quite cold mix in 14 pints of brandy or whisky. Bottle it, being particularly careful that the bottles are perfectly clean. They should first be well washed in soda and water, and then rinsed out with boiling water. Cork the bottles with new corks soaked in cold water. Cut them off even with the top, seal them with beeswax and rosin melted together in equal quantities, and lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. (2) Mix h pint of Strawberry-juice with \ pint of orange-juice, and add sugar and crushed ice to taste. Strawberry Souffle.—(1) Pick the tops off 31b. of ripe Strawberries; put them in a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 teacupful of crashed loaf sugar, Fig. 683. Strawberry Souffle. and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs in 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, stand the basin in a saucepan contain- ing hot water, and stir the custard mixture over the fire Strawberries—continued. till thick. Put the Strawberries round a glass dish, forming a high wall and leaving a hollow in the centre, and fill the hollow with the custard; whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff' froth, pour them over the sou Ilk', cover the top with caster sugar, and serve. (See Pig. 683.) (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs, then pour over them \ pint of boiling cream; turn all into a saucepan, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick, taking care not to let it boil. Sweeten the custard to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of almonds. Turn a small pot of Strawberry jam into a deep dish, smooth it over, then pour the custard on it. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff' froth, spread them on the top of the souffle, sift some caster sugar over, and bake it in a slow oven till lightly browned. Serve the souffle when cold. (3) Pick off all the stalks from lib. of ripe Strawberries, and mash them with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 break- fast-cupful of sugar. Put 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in a saucepan, pour in slowly 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it over the fire till thick. Beat the yolks of four eggs, stir them in with the thickened milk, add the Strawberry pur6e, move the saucepan off the fire, and stir the contents till quite smooth; then mix in quickly the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Lightly grease the inside of a plain mould with butter, pour in the mixture, and bake it for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, serve the souffle at once. (4) Pick the tops off some Strawberries, and put them in a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel and a little sugar; stir them over the fire till thick and consistent. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, flavour with cinnamon, and stir it in a pan over the fire till thick, but do not allow it to boil. Put the Strawberries in a circle round a deep dish, and pour the custard in the middle. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a firm froth, then spread them over the whole; sift plenty of caster sugar over it, and brown it in the oven or under a salamander. Serve the souffle while hot. (5) Whisk the whites of fifteen eggs to a stiff'froth, and mix them lightly with 1 breakfast-cupful of Strawberry jam and the strained juice of one lemon. Butter a souffle-mould, and pour the mixture into it, which should only three parts fill it, leaving room for the souffle to rise. Bake it in a moderate oven for about ten or fifteen minutes. When nicely risen and lightly browned over the top, serve the souffle without delay in the same dish. (6) Mix 14 table spoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with f breakfast-cupful of cold milk, and stir it over the tire in a saucepan until thickened and boiling. Pass the contents of a small jar of Strawberry jam through a fine hair sieve, and stir it into the thickened milk. Beat the mixture until perfectly smooth and almost cold, then beat in one at a time the yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff foam, and stir them in lightly with the mixture. Turn it into a souffle-mould, and bake it in a brisk oven. When well risen and nicely browned on the top, dust some caster sugar over the souffle, and serve at once in the same mould. Strawberry Soup.—(1) Pick the tops off' lib. or 21b. of ripe Strawberries, put them in a saucepan with four or five rusks and sufficient water to cover, and boil them until dissolved. Pass the fruit through a fine wire sieve, and return it to the saucepan, with lqt. of wine. Mix 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water, then mix it with the soup, sweeten to taste with sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put 4-lb. of ripe Strawberries in a soup-tureen, and dust them well with caster sugar. When ready, pour the soup in the tureen and serve it with a plate of sponge cakes. (2) Procure plenty of ripe but not on any account rotten Strawberries, put them in a stewpan with a few rusks and a small quantity of water, stew them over a gentle fire until dissolved, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put 2 heaped table spoonfuls of arrowroot in the stewpan, and mix in smoothly 14 pints of white wine; stir it over