THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 459 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Snails—continued. Afterwards rub them well in the hands, and wash in several lots of cold water. The shells are put in warm water, scrubbed with a brush, and then wiped dry. Baked Snails.—Work 1 table spoonful of chopped parsley into 2oz. of butter, and season with 1 saltspoonful of salt, % saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a piece of the prepared butter into each of the shells (there should be two dozen shells for the above quantity of butter), then put a Snail into each of the shells, and a piece more butter on the top. Lay the Snails Pig. 594. Baked Snails. close together in a cast-iron pan, the mouths of the Snails upward, and not one upon the other; cover the pan so as render it air-tight, and put it into a moderate oven. When the parsley begins to look dark as if fried, the Snails will be sufficiently cooked. Arrange the Snails on a hot dish with a folded napkin, leaving them in their shells, and serve as hot as possible (see Fig. 594). Snails a la Bourguignonne.—Have some fine Bourgoyne Snails, disgorge them well with a little salt for two or three days, wash them several times in cold water, strain, and place them in a stewpan, covering them with water. Add a bunch of sweet herbs, some cloves and whole pepper tied in a cloth, and salt to taste; cook until the Snails fall from their shells, empty them, clipping off their tails, and clean the shells well. Mix together some hutter, shallots, parsley, and chervil, chopped very fine; put the mass into a bowl with an equal quantity of sifted breadcrumbs and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season to taste with salt and pepper, and knead well. Partly fill the shells with this mixture, replace the snails, and finish filling with more of the kneaded butter; spread breadcrumbs over, and lay them on a baking-dish, the opened part on the top. Brown in the oven for four minutes, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Snails a l’ltalienne.—Prepare the Snails as for Snails a la BOUKGUIGNONNE, leaving them in their shells ; drain, and put them in a deep pan with white wine and a little strong Spanish sauce, a few chopped, fried onions, and finely-minced mushrooms. Season well with a pinch of salt, cook for a few minutes in the oven, and serve. Snails a la Proven?ale.—Prepare the Snails as for Snails a la BourguignoNNe. Fry a little chopped onion with oil, add the Snails taken from their shells, a little white wine, two cloves of chopped garlic, and a little fresh breadcrumbs and chopped parsley. Return the mixture to the shells, bake for a few minutes, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and serve. Snail-and-Frog Broth.—This is a concoction described by the famous Careme. Put four dozen frog's thighs and twelve Snails taken fresh from the vineyards into a sauce- pan, sweat them over the five for a few minutes, take them out, pound them in a mortar, put them into a sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of pearl barley, the white parts of four leeks, and six turnips cut into pieces; pour over lqt. of water, bring it to the boil, skim well, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-third its original bulk. Strain it through a cloth and it is ready for use. Stewed Snails.—Select four dozen large-sized Snails, and clean them. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in gradually 1 teaspoon- ful each of flour, finely-chopped parsley, and thyme, and half a bay-leaf. Pour in 1 pint of white wine and season with a small quantity of salt and pepper. Put the Snails back in their shells, which should have been well scrubbed, then place them in the stewpan with the other ingredients ; pour in some warm broth, if there is not sufficient liquor Snails—continued. to cover them. Place them over the fire until boiling, then move them to the side where they may simmer gently until cooked. Arrange the Snails on a hot dish, their mouths upwards, pour the remainder of their cooking- liquor over them, and serve. SNAPDRAGON.—A famous Christmas game con- sisting of snatching, with the fingers, raisins out of a dish of flaming spirit. The spirit should be brandy, and the dish of metal, lest it crack with the heat. Sometimes called Flapdragon. SNIPES (TV. Becassines; Ger. Schnepfen; Ital. Beccaccini; Sp. Zopencos).—“ The French call it little woodcock, whereas the English would be rather disposed to call the woodcock a large Snipe. The generic name in England is Snipe.” There are several varieties, the more common being the Jack-Snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula) which delights in an assortment of synonyms, such as Judcock, Jedcock, Juddock, Jed, and Half-Snipe. It is a small brown-grey bird, differing from the common Snipe (Gallinago ccelestis) and the great or double Snipe (Galli- nago major) in the length of the bill and size. The Dowitcher or red-breasted Snipe is another well-known variety. All these are esteemed by epicures as the finest of game birds, excepting only the woodcock to which it is akin (see Woodcocks). They are in season from November throughout the winter months, and are cooked without being drawn. Snipes are trussed for roasting, broiling, or baking, by pressing the legs on to the thighs and fastening them close to the body of the bird. The head and neck should be skinned, and the beak tucked and secured under a wing, being careful to truss the heads all one way, or in such a manner that they can be arranged symmetrically when serving. French cooks sometimes truss a Snipe by Fig. 595 Snipe Trussed in French Style. crossing his legs, and then drawing the head along to the thigh, forcing the beak through the body of the bird under the thighs (see Fig. 595). This gives a very jaunty appearance to the bird. Boudins of Snipe.—(1) Butter some dariole-moulds, and line them thickly with Snipe forcemeat; fill them with chopped fillets of Snipe and truffles, pour in a little stiffly-reduced Spanish sauce, and cover the tops with a layer of the forcemeat. Poach the boudins in a bain-marie. Fix a socle of fried bread on a hot dish, turn the boudins out of the moulds, arrange them on the socle, and serve. (2) Remove all the skin and bones from an equal quantity of Snipe and chicken ; chop the flesh and pound it together in a mortar. Put a piece of crumb of bread in some clear stock, stir it over the fire till stiffly reduced, then turn it on to a plate and leave till cool. Chop and pound some boiled veal udder, mix it with the other pounded meats, and pass the whole through a tine hair sieve; add the prepared bread panada, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix the whole thoroughly with 1 teacupful of essence of Snipe that has been stiffly reduced with some Spanish sauce. Try the consistency of the forcemeat by poaching a small quantity of it in water, and if too stiff', thin it with a little cream or some more sauce. Butter some dariole-moulds and line them thickly with the forcemeat, prepare a salpif.on of fillets of Snipe