TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 507 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, sec under their special heads. Sprats—continued. Sprats are in season from November to March; they are much relished by the poorer classes in spite of their strong oily nature, which, according to some authori- ties, renders them unfit for delicate stomachs. Fresh ! Sprats are bright and silvery, and red about the eyes; \ stale Sprats are said to be poisonous, although reckoned j excellent manure for horticultural purposes. Baked Sprats.—(1) Clean the Sprats, take off the heads, j lay them in a deep dish, and pour over them sufficient j vinegar and water, in equal quantities, to cover them. To | each quart of vinegar and water put a little allspice, toz. of whole black pepper, a little salt, two or three bay leaves, and an onion peeled and sliced. Cover the disli (paper tied over it will do), and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Clean the fish, put them in a pie-dish with two or three bay leaves, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; put a plate over the dish, and bake the Sprats in a moderate oven. When cooked, let them stand in the disli till cold, then cover them with vinegar, and serve. Broiled Sprats.—Clean the Sprats, fix them through the gills in rows on skewers, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire. When nicely browned on botli sides, put them out on to a hot disli, and serve with a plate of lemons. Fried Sprats.—Wash the Sprats, dry them with a cloth, and lay them on a dish; sprinkle salt over them, and let ; them remain for an hour or two. Roll the Sprats in Hour, and when well covered with it put them into a wire basket. Plunge the basket into a pan of boiling fat, and toss the fish gently about till equally browned and crisped. When cooked, drain the Sprats, and put them on a sheet Fig. 651. Fried Sprats. of paper to absorb the moisture; then arrange them on a hot dish, dust over them a little cayenne pepper, garnish with fried parsley and slices of lemon, and serve with a plate of brown bread-and-butter (see Fig. 651). Pickled Sprats.—Clean the Sprats, which should be perfectly fresh and unsalted, cut off their heads, and wash them, using plenty of water. When well drained, pack them in layers in earthenware crocks, strewing between each layer moderate quantities of chilli-pods, whole pepper, allspice, and one or two bay-leaves. Dissolve a moderate-sized lump of salt in warm water, say about h table-spoonful of the former to 1 pint of the latter, pour it over the fish, then pour in sufficient vinegar to completely cover them. Cover the crocks, put them in a rather slow oven, and bake till the fish are cooked. Afterwards let the fish cool with the covers oil' the crocks. The Sprats should be served in the crocks in which they are pickled. If the flavour be desired, a few sliced onions or shallots may lie added previous to baking them. After they are cooked, if they are rather dry, moisten them with a iittle cold vinegar. Potted Sprats.- -Cut the heads and tails off the Sprats; wash them well, and blanch them in slight ly-salted water till the meat can be easily removed from the bones. Mash the flesh of the Sprats, having freed it from the bones, and season it with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Rub the interior of some jars with clarified butter, fill them with the fish, pressing it tightly down, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour in a slow oven; and when cooked, take it out and leave till cold. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified butter into each jar, and leave them till it has set, then tie them over with paper. If kept in a cool place the fish will keep well for at least two or three weeks. Sprats—continued. Salted Sprats.—The largest Sprats are the best to use for this purpose. Wash them thoroughly in salted water, then drain them well. Prepare a brine strong enough to float an egg, and soak the fish in it for six hours; after- wards let them drain well. Fix them on frames, piercing the nails through the eyes, and smoke them for twelve- hours-and-a-half, but for the first half-hour using only a gentle heat. At the end of that time, the fish may at once be prepared for serving, but if they are to be kept for any length of time they should be smoked for thirty hours, or until they are a very dark brown colour. Smoked Sprats.—Bundles of these may be bought in any fish-sliop. They are first salted and dried in the usual way (see Curing), and may be toasted before the fire, or warmed up in a frying-pan. In Germany they are usually eaten raw. Soused Sprats.—Wash the Sprats well, and dry them in a cloth ; put a layer of them in a pie-dish, dust over with salt and pepper, put in another layer, season as before, and so on until the dish is nearly full; then pour over sufficient vinegar and water to cover, using three parts of the former to one of the latter. Cover the dish, and bake the Sprats in a slow oven for about two hours, taking care not to let them burn. Serve hot or cold as desired. Sprats in Imitation of Anchovies.—Procure \ peck of Sprats as soon as possible after they have been caught, and do not wash .or wipe them. Put in a stone mortar lib. of common salt, 2oz. of bay-salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, loz. of prunella salt, and a small quantity of cochineal; pound the mixture thoroughly. Fill a large stone jar with alternate layers of Sprats and the pounded mixture, pressing them down tightly; cover the jar so that it is perfectly air-tight, and stand it in a dry cupboard. In six months’ time the Sprats will be ready for use. Sprat Patties.—(1) Clean the Sprats, season them with salt and pepper, and let them marinade in vinegar for a little while. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, and fill them with the fish. Finely grate some stale bread, sprinkle the crumbs over the fish, put a small lump of butter in each pan, and bake them in a quick oven. When nicely browned, take the patties out, and serve them with a plate of cut lemons. (2) Clean a sufficient quantity of unsalted Sprats and remove their heads and tails; scald them with boiling salted water until tender, then pick all the flesh off the bones. Put the flesh in a mortar, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and pound it until smooth. Moisten the paste with a small quantity of vinegar. Butter some patty-pans, line them with a good paste, and fill them with the pounded fish. Strew finely-grated breadcrumb over the top, and put a thin slice of butter on each. Place them in a brisk oven, and bake until nicely browned over the top. When the patties are cooked take them out of their tins, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Sprat Fie.—(1) Clean and cut off the heads and tails of the Sprats, put them in layers in a pie-dish, with pepper and salt sprinkled over them, add a few peppercorns, and pour in about f teacupful of cold water. Butter the edge of the pie clish, and put round it a strip of puff paste. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; make a slight incision in the top of the crust. Bake the pie in a quick oven, ami serve when cold. (2) Clean the Sprats, blanch them in boiling water, then remove the bones, and mash the flesh. Boil some floury potatoes, and mash them with a little milk and salt. Butter a deep baking-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of potato and fish, sprinkling a little chopped onion, pepper, and salt between each layer, and finishing with a layer of potatoes. Pour over the pie one or two well- beaten eggs, and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, brown the top of the pie under a salamander, and serve. Sprat Rissoles.—Cut the heads off the Sprats; clean them, and blanch them in boiling salted water till the meat