479 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. ces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Soups—continued. rule to follow is: for a great dinner the Soups should be as light as possible, just enough to give a fillip ; for a little dinner, with one or two dishes, they may be as rich and satisfying as you please. De Cussy is quite in accord here with Thomas Walker (of the Original), who Fig. -620. Soot-tureen. maintained that if he gave turtle Soup to his guests they would want little else—whitebait and a grouse.” Soup should always be sent to table in a metal or earthenware tureen (see Fig. 620) fitted with a tight- fitting cover. A metal ladle is best for serving, and it should be distinct from the tureen. Those tureens with holes cut in the lids for the ladle handle let out the heat and steam. The following directions may be of value to the Soup- maker, who, be it remembered, has an extraordinary array before him: Bring the cold water in the stockpot with the meat and bones to the boil slowly, and then let it simmer with merely a ripple on the surface for hours, never boiling and Fig. 621. Stockpot. never ceasing to simmer. Skim off every particle of scum and fat, for which purpose it is as well to use a stockpot with a tap at the bottom (see Fig. 621). Beware of using too much salt; a little is advisable, as it causes the scum to rise; but as the liquid boils down, the proportion of salt is increased in consequence, because the water flies off in steam, but the salt remains. Soft water is best for making Soup. Meat used for Soup-making should not have been cooked before, and although a Soup of fair quality may be made from some kind, as a rule it will be found to give a vapid taste to the stock, which seasoning cannot disguise. The sediments of gravies that have stood to be cold should likewise be avoided, as they are apt to make the Soup cloudy. Raw vegetables, with the exception of onions, should not be put on at the same time as the meat, or their Soups—continued. flavour will boil away. Onions, either whole or sliced and fried, may go in at the first; potherbs, carrots, and celery, after three hours’ simmering; turnips, vegetable- marrows, asparagus-tops, and other delicate vegetables, should go in only a short time before serving. Boil the stock, if possible, the day before it is wanted for the Soup, and when cold skim off the fat, if a stock- pot without a tap is used, such as Papin’s digester (see Figs. 622 and 623). When broth or stock is put away to cool, Fig. 622. Papin’s Digester. it should be poured into a freshly-scalded and thoroughly- dried earthenware pan, which is preferable to any metal; and if it is necessary to keep the Soup for more than a day or two, it should be occasionally simmered up over the fire and then returned to the pan, which has been scalded and dried. See Colourings, Herbs, Liaison, &c. For further information see Broths. Fig. 623. Section of Papin’s Digester. Albert Victor Soup.—Finely mince jib. of lean veal, season with pepper and sait, put it into a mortar, and pound it well, adding gradually the yolk of an egg and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Have ready Jib. or so of flaky paste, roll it out thin, cut it into triangular-shaped pieces,