tee encyclopedia of practical cookery. 560 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Decorations—continued. it can be so arranged as not to rise more than a few inches from the Table, or in such places only as shall not come between opposite guests. For tall vases, the corners are best suited, but these should be so situated that the host will not be required to bend forward uncomfortably in order to converse with the right or left hand guest. When the Table is illuminated by candles or electric branches, these usually occupy the corners, and should be so arranged that the branching is above the line of vision between host or hostess and corner guests. A very pretty floral arrangement is that of the wreath, consisting of a continuous flat string of flowers fastened together and laid upon the cloth in some tasteful design, dividing ornamentally that part of the Table where the dishes stand from the covers. These wreaths may be made up of any flowers that stand well, orange blossoms prevailing for a wedding breakfast; roses, violets, lilies, and other white flowers for a christening lunch; holly and mistletoe with evergreens for a Christmas or New Year’s dinner. Evergreens alone, with here and there an artificial flower, makes a good show. Scallops (see Fig. 738) and scrolls (see Fig. 739) give the best effect, relieved here and there at symmetrical distances by a tuft of flowers, with scrolls embracing the stands of raised dishes, especially those containing fruit, ornamental cakes, and bonbons. If a central piece be used—and it adds greatly to the effect —it should be an arrangement of a tall palm, or tree-fern, with small ferns or pot flowers, such as tulips, gloxinias, primulas, or whatever dwarf free-flowering plant is in season. Artificial flowers are frequently used, and with splendid effect. They do not wither or droop, nor do they fill the atmosphere with a sickly scent, even though used in any quantity; and so beautifully are they made now that they can scarcely be detected from real growths, especially by gas or candle- light. When pots containing flowers are set on the Table, the pots should be concealed by an ornamental vase (see Fig. 740). Some of these are very beautiful, and look neat, Fig. 740. flower-pot Vase. clean, and ornamental. When cut flowers are used, the ends should be kept damp if possible. Several plans have been suggested for this purpose—covering the ends with a little wet clay, and wrapping up the clay in cotton wool. Damp cotton wool answers very well, provided that the wool is not made so Table Decorations—continued. wet that the water runs over the cloth. When tufts of 1 flowers are required, they can be kept in good shape and ' quite fresh by cutting a turnip in halves, and sticking the flower stems in the round part, first boring holes with a stout iron skewer, or any other convenient weapon. The turnip may be stood in an inverted lid of a tin canister (see Fig. 741), plate, or saucer, and a little water poured in the vessel if it be desired to keep the flowers fresh for hours. Vases containing water are to be avoided as much as possible, unless they are placed beyond reach of guests, attendants, and servers. The upsetting of one will entirely spoil the appearance of the Table. When moss is used it should be dried, for when wet it has a most de- appetising smell of the grave. As soon as the scroll system is understood, it will take the pride of place in floral Table Decoration, and ladies interested in the art will easily contrive designs to suit circumstances and other conditions, probably introducing inscriptions betokening welcome to the guest, or good wishes of some kind. The use of one kind of flower only has been advocated recently; a lady of rank giving rose dinners, violet dinners, and so on, each guest being presented with a button-hole or bouquet, and the Table being simply one massive bed of the particular flower in question. As an extravagant waste of floral wealth these beds of flowers, with the dishes rising through them, are unequalled; by scrolls and wreaths a much more tasteful effect can be produced at infinitely less cost. When fairy lamps are used as a partial illuminant, the stands are sometimes so constructed as to hold a small bunch of flowers on each side, and a menu card at the back. These give an excellent effect if placed between two guests; but the light is, to say the best of it, very weak, although the colouring is effective. Gas overhead gives a bad effect to the Table, casting uncanny shadows over the white cloth ; candles, from tall branches, have not yet been excelled, even by electricity, the effect of the latter being somewhat too white and silvery. From some of the Plates given in this Encyclopedia, floral and other arrangements are shown; one, especially, of suspended wreaths, showing the guests under, and, as it were, in frames of flowers. They are bad for a dinner at which speeches are expected to be made. The fashion becoming prevalent of arranging the cloth or cloths in ornamental style, will be described under Table Linen. TABLE D’HOTE.—Literally, the host’s table. In some of the large hotels it is usual to hold a set meal at a certain hour, at which a full menu is served. At this table it is usual for the landlord or manager to preside. TABLE LINEN.—This consists chiefly of table- cloths and napkins or serviettes, with sideboard cloths, and smaller cloths for small side tables, dinner waggons, and carving-cloths. Of all these, with the exception of