490 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensile, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Scnps—continued. move the pan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering gently for twelve hours. Strain the Soup through a fine sieve into a large howl. On the following day, skim oil' the fat, turn the Soup (which will have jellied) out of the hasin, and scrape the sediment off at the bottom. Put the jelly into a saucepan, and stir and hoil it very gently until thickly reduced. Put small quanti- ties of the Soup into saucers, and leave it until quite cold and set. Afterwards lay the cakes on flannel in front of the fire or in the sun to dry. When ready, pack the cakes of Soup in a tin box between layers of white paper. They will keep for some considerable time. About loz. of the cake will make 1 pint of rich Soup. Pour boiling water on it, season with a small quantity of salt, stir it well, and when it dissolves, serve it with sippets of toast. (2) Put some skin and trimmings of beef into a saucepan, with water in proportion to the quantity of meat. No fat should be put in. Let the liquor simmer till it is reduced to the consistency of thin syrup. Pour the Soup into small jelly-pots, leave it till dry and set, then cork the pots, and tie them over with parchment paper. (3) Put two legs of veal, half a leg of beef, and the lean part of a leg of ham, all cut into small pieces, in a large saucepan, putting first at the bottom Jib. of butter, 3oz. of anchovies, and 1 Joz. of mace. Wash four heads of celery, trim off the green leaves, cut them into small pieces, and put them in the saucepan with the meat; add also five large chopped carrots. Put the lid on the sauce- pan, and stand it over a moderate fire. When the gravy begins to draw, keep draining it oil’ till it is all extracted. Cover the meat with water, and stand the saucepan over the fire till it boils; then move it to the side, and keep it simmering for five hours. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, anil boil it quickly till it is reduced to one-third. Stiain the gravy that was extracted from the meat into the Soup, hoil it gently till it will jelly, season it with cayenne pepper, then pour it in thin layers on plates, and dry in the sun or a warm place. When dry and set, cut the Soup into cakes, and keep them tightly packed in boxes. Portuguese Soup (A la Portugaise).—Put 4lb. of lean beef and 21b. of pickled pork into a saucepan, with three carrots, three onions, three turnips, six tomatoes, a stick of celery, half a large white cabbage, and the trimmings of six small ! green cabbages, having first removed the hearts; add also about 61b. of pumpkin. All the vegetables should be cut up into small pieces. Pour in plenty of cold water, and season with some mace, cloves, salt, and pepper. Boil the above ingredients gently for four-hours-and-a half; then take out the meat, put in about 31b. more of pumpkin that has been cut into pieces five inches long and two square, also the hearts of the cabbages, and boil the ; bread syrup for half an-hour longer. Break some slices of bread into pieces and put them into a soup-tureen, then put in the vegetables, keeping the hearts of the cabbages for the top, and strain the Soup over these. Sift thickly over some grated Parmesan cheese, and serve the Soup at once. Prince’s Soup (a la Prince).—Melt a lump of butter in a saucepan, then put in 61b. of veal, lib. of ham, one calf’s foot, and a few trimmings of game or poultry; or if these are not available, a little more veal should he added. The meat should all he cut up. Put in four or five Jerusalem artichokes, two leeks, two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in 1 pint of broth, and stand the saucepan over the fire till a thick white glaze has formed at the bottom; then pour in 5qts. of light broth, and hoil the liquor gently for an hour; then add three moderate-sized peeled and cored apples, and two well- washed anchovies, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Strain the liquor through a broth-napkin and clarify it. Cut eight long narrow fillets off the breast of a braised fowl, cover them with a layer of chicken forcemeat, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg. Arrange the fillets side by side in a saute- pan, cover them with a little chicken broth, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Thoroughly wash and cut Soups—continued. into thin slices some fresh lamb’s brains, put them in a saute-pan in which a lump of butter has been melted, season them with a little pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, and cook them over a moderate fire till firnr; then leave them till cold. Beat six eggs with 1 teacupful of broth, and season them with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Pour a layer of the beaten egg about Jin. thick in a flat mould, stand it over the fire in a saucepan containing boiling water, and steam it for two or three minutes. Put a layer of brains over the custard, pour in the remainder of the custard, and steam it over a clear fire for half-an-hour. Take the mould out of the water, leave it till the custard is cool, then turn it out. Cut the custard and fillets of fowl into small diamond- shaped pieces, then put them in a soup-tureen with some boiled asparagus-points ; mix 1 teaspoonful of sugar in with the Soup, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Princess Soup (a la Frincesse).—Separate the meat from the hones of a cold roasted fowl, ishop the meat, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Put the bones and trimmings of the fowl in a saucepan with f pint of boiling veal stock, and boil them for half-an-hour. Peel and cut into thin slices four large cucumbers. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in two sliced onions, Jib. of lean ham, one or two sprigs of basil, two bay- leaves, and the sliced cucumbers. Fry them over a quick fire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; add the pounded fowl, 4 table-spoonfuls of sago, and 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them till well mixed; pour in the broth from the chicken bones, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes. Pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and stir it over the fire till boiling; pour in lqt. of boiling milk, skim it, and season with salt and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Put the slices of cucum- ber in a soup-tureen with J pint of boiled green peas and 1 teacupful of thick cream, pour in the Soup, stir it till well mixed, then serve it. Should the Soup be too thick, add a little more milk or broth before turning it into the tureen. Fuchero Soup (Spanish).—Put 21b. of beef steak in a large earthenware jar, cover it with 4qts. of water, put the jar in the oven, anil let the contents stew for an hour, skimming the liquor occasionally. At the end of that time, put in with the Soup 1 teacupful of dried chick peas that were put to soak in water the night before. Let the Soup simmer for another hour, then put into it a small piece of salted pork that has been well washed, six carrots, a bunch of parsley and chervil-leaves, a head of garlic, and one leek, season- ing with pepper and salt. In an hour’s time, add to the Soup a small piece of pumpkin and a slice of ham. Cook these for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Put some thinly-cut slices of toast into a soup-tureen, and soak them with a small quantity of the Soup. Strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into the soup-tureen, put the steak, pork, and carrots on to a hot dish, and serve them with the Soup. Queen Soup (a la Heine).—(1) Draw, skin, and wash three fowls, put them in a saucepan with a hunch of parsley, cover them with rich veal broth, and boil them till tender. When cooked, take out the fowls, cut the meat off, and trim, chop, and pound it in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and a piece of crumb of bread that has been soaked for a few minutes in a little of the liquor. Put lqt. of cream in a saucepan with the strained veal broth; when it is boiling, add the above mixture of meat, &c. Pass all through a fine hair sieve, and serve the Soup in a soup-tureen, with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Put a large fowl into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and boil it gently till tender. Take the fowl out, skim the fat off' the liquor, then put in 1 teacupful of well- washed rice, one onion, a slice each of carrot and turnip, and a small piece of celery, all of which have been fried for a few minutes in butter. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into the pan in which the vegetables were fried, and stir it over the fire with the butter till smooth, but do not brown it; then mix it in with the Soup, add a small piece of