THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 608 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. "W lien fried, drain tlie balls on paper, arrange them in a pile on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 808), and serve. Fig. 808. Tinned-Tomato Balls. Tinned-Tomato Batter Pudding.—Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar and 14 teaspoonfuls of salt. Beat four eggs, and mix them with 24 breakfast-cupfuls of Tinned-Tomato juice, and 4 breakfast-cupful of milk. Pour tlie liquid mixture gradually into the flour, stirring it at the same tune with a wooden spoon, until quite smooth. Add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and \ teaspoonful of finely-chopped onion. Butter a baking-dish, or grease it with dripping, pour the mixture into it, put two or three small lumps of dripping on the top, and bake the pudding in a quick oven. Serve it hot with roasted meat. If preferred, the pudding may be baked under the meat. Tinned-Tomatoes-and-Cheese Pudding.—Mix 1 teacup- ful of grated breadcrumb and 2oz. of grated cheese with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pie-dish, strew it over with grated breadcrumbs, .and pour in the Tomato mixture; smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, and cover it with grated cheese and breadcrumb ; put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake in a brisk oven. In about twenty j minutes’ time the pudding will be sufficiently baked. It can be served either hot or cold. Tinned-Tomato Compote.—Use a 2lb. tin of Tomatoes, strain them free of juice, and pack them in a jar with 14lb. of caster sugar and j teaspoonful of citric acid. Put a plate on the top of the jar, stand it in a moderate oven, placing the jar in a basin with a little water to prevent the fruit burning, and bake it until the compote is very thick. When sufficiently cooked, turn it into small jars, place on each a round of white paper that has been dipped in beaten white of egg, and tie them over with pieces of thick paper. Tinned-Tomato-and-Custard Pudding.—Mix 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes and their juice, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add a small quantity of ground cinnamon. Thickly butter a pie-dish, and pour in the mixture. Put 1 pint of milk in a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and about 4 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon. Set it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in quickly two well-beaten eggs; pour tlie custard over the Tomatoes, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, stand the pie-disli on a flat dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato-and-Egg Jelly Salad.—Put loz. of soaked French gelatine in a lined saucepan with f pint of Tinned Tomato juice, one slice of onion, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the mixture until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse out some small moulds or cups with cold water, then pour the jelly into them, and set them away in a cold place. Boil six eggs until hard, then peel and cut them into halves. Prepare a nice salad on a dish. When the jelly has set in the cups, dissolve it slightly on the surface by holding it in front of the fire, then stick a half egg in each. Let them set again, then run a knife round between the cup and the jelly so as to loosen it, and turn it on to the dish of salad (see Tomatoes—continued. Fig. 809). \\ hen carefully done, this makes an extremely pretty dish. Tinned-Tomato-and-Egg Patties.—Peel a couple of hard- boiled eggs, put them in a mortar, and pound them with 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 4 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and 1 teaspoonful “ of sugar. .Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of powdered cloves and mace. When well pounded, add to the mixture 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of Tinned Tomatoes without any juice, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; moisten the mixture with 4 teacupful of milk, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar; or instead of the chilli vinegar plain vinegar may be used with a dust of cayenne pepper. Butter some small patty-pans, and strew grated breadcrumb lightly over them; pour in the mixture, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, dust a few crumbs on the top, put a small piece of butter on each, and bake them in a brisk oven. In about a-quarter- of-an-hour, or when nicely browned, take the tins out of the oven, turn the patties out on to a dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Tinned-Tomato rool.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tinned Tomatoes into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of their liquor, and place it over the fire until hot. Mix 4 table- spoonful of cornflour with a little of the cold Tomato liquor, and when quite smooth stir it in with the hot Tomatoes. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened, mashing the Tomatoes well at the same time ; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of con- densed milk in it, and turn it into a fancy bowl. When the fool is quite cold, sift caster sugar over it, and serve with a dish of sweet biscuits. Tinned-Tomato Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine that has been soaked for an hour in a small quantity of water, into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes and their juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, 4 saltspoonful of citric acid, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Rinse out a mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and keep it in a cool temperature until well set. When ready to serve, whip 1 pint of thick cream with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and pour the cream round it. Tinned-Tomato Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Tinned Tomatoes with their juice into a basin, and mix with them sufficient finely-grated stale breadcrumb to thicken the juice, and sweeten with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with a suet crust; pour in the Tomato mixture, cover with a flat of the crust, moistening and binding the edges together. Tie a cloth over the pudding, plunge it into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Puree.—Chop 6oz. of raw bam and two shallots, and put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, half a blade of mace, two or three sprigs of thyme, a bay- leaf, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns. Toss them over the fire until lightly browned, then turn in the contents of a tin of Tomatoes, and 1 teacupful of thick white sauce. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon until very hot, then rub it through a silk or fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, and mix