518 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—conti nued. Strawberry Acid Royal.—Melt 2oz. of citric acid in Iqt. of water, then pour it on as large a quantity of ripe freshly- gathered, well flavoured Strawberries, picked from then- stalks, as it will cover, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Drain the liquor off, again pour it over as many Strawberries as it will cover, and again let it stand for twenty-four hours, not more. Re careful that the fruit is kept in a cool place while it is steeping. Drain the liquor well from the fruit on the second day, add to it its own weight of loaf sugar, and when this is quite dissolved put it in an enamelled saucepan over the fire and boil gently for three or four minutes. When quite cold, bottle it in small bottles (take care that they are perfectly dry), cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry, cool place. Strawberry Bavaroise.—(1) Take lqt. of freshly picked, thoroughly ripe Strawberries, mash with 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-powdered white sugar, and rub through a small meshed sieve. Put this puree into a china basin till wanted. Now dissolve 1 hr/., of fine isinglass in a pan with a tumbler of warm water, add Jib. of caster sugar, and when this is all dissolved add the juice of an orange and 20 drops of good essence of lemon. Pass through a sieve, and continue to stir it as it gets cold, adding the puree of Strawberries by degrees. Set on the ice, and as it thickens mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Pour it into a full sized dome-shaped mould previously packed in ice. Cut a slice of Genoa cake lin. thick the shape of the dish, and cover it smootlily with vanilla-flavoured icing. Set this, and turn out the bavaroise on to an ice-cold dish, taking care to place it in the centre. Ornament with a large Strawberry and angelica-leaves on the top, and set Strawberries with angelica-leaves round the base of the dome (see Fig. 678). (2) Put Joz. of gelatine in a basin, pour over it 1 teacup- ful of cold water, and leave it to soak for two hours. Pick the tops oft' lqt. of Strawberries, mash them with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and let them stand for an hour. Pass the juice of the Strawberries through a fine hair sieve, pressing through at the same time as much of the pulp as possible without the seeds. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 teacupful of boiling water, and strain it into the Strawberry-juice. Stand the basin on ice, beat the contents till they begin to thicken, then pour in 1 pint of whipped cream, and mix it well. Turn the above mixture into a mould, and leave it till set. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish it with whipped cream, and serve. Strawberry Blanc-mange.—Pick the tops from lqt. of ripe Strawberries; put the fruit into a basin, and crush it with a wooden spoon, sprinkling Jib. of caster sugar over it at the same time. Let the Strawberries stand for a few hours. Put Jib. of caster sugar and 2oz. of isinglass in a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the milk through muslin, mix with it 1J pints of cream, and stir it till cold. Pour the cream and milk over the Strawberries, beating them at Strawberries—continued. the same time, then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, but gradually, to prevent curdling. Turn the above mixture into an ornamental mould, pack it in ice, and leave it till set. Turn the blanc mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and serve. Strawberry Bouchees.—Mix Jib. of caster sugar with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them together, sifting in gradu- ally Jib. of dried flour; add the well whipped whites of the six eggs, and stir all till quite smooth. Put the paste into a paper funnel, and press it in rounds of equal quantities on sheets of paper. Bake the rounds in the oven, and when they are cooked remove them from the paper. Coat the surface of half the biscuits with Strawberry jam, then put the others on top, thus making a houchee. Boil some syrup to 36deg., add sufficient juice pressed from Strawberries to bring the syrup down to 38deg., then take it off the fire. When cool work the syrup with the spatula till smooth. Put this icing into a basin and melt again, adding a few drops of cochineal. Stick a skewer through each houchee separately, and dip them, one at a time, in the icing, taking care to cover them completely. Arrange the bouchees on a wire sieve to drain, then dry them in the oven for a few minutes. When cold, they are ready to be served. Strawberry Charlottes.—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs witli 3 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of cold water for ten minutes, then stir in gradually 4 break - fastcupfuls of sifted flour, and mix it well, adding at the last the well whipped whites of the fifteen eggs. Spread the above mixture in thin layers on sheets of paper, and bake it in a quick oven for about six minutes. The papers should not be greased. When cooked, brush underneath the paper with water, so that it can be easily removed from the cakes. Make fifty small paper cases; cut out the pieces of cake by the same pattern the cases were cut out by, but making them slightly shorter; line the paper cases with the cake at the sides, and, if liked, push some square pieces down inside. Fill the Charlottes with whipped Strawberry cream, and serve them. Strawberry Chartreuse.—Pick oft' the tops of 21b. of ripe Strawberries, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Prepare Iqt. of calf’s-foot jelly, flavour it well with lemon, and leave it till a little cooled. Pour a thin layer of the jelly in the bottom of a large mould, then arrange a layer of Strawberries on the top, cover them with a little jelly, and leave it till set. When the jelly in the large mould is quite firm, stand a smaller mould inside. Fill the space between the moulds with Strawberries, filling up the cavi- ties with jelly, then set the mould on ice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a little water, then mix with it J pint of Strawberry-juice, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix gradually with it the Strawberry -juice. When the jelly has set, pour a little warm water in the smallest mould to loosen it, then take it carefully out of the large one. Fill the hollow with the cream, and leave the mould in the ice till the cream has set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the chartreuse out on to a fancy dish. Strawberry Cheese (Pain).—(1) Carefully pick over Jib. of ripe Strawberries, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and mix with them the strained juice of two oranges, 1 pint of clear sweetened jelly, and a little finely-grated orange-peel. When well mixed, put the above ingredients in a sugar-pan, and stir them on ice till thick. Mask the interior of a fancy jelly-mould with clear sweet jelly, stand it in pounded ice, and leave for a few minutes. Fill the mould with the Strawberry mixture, and leave it in the ice for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Prepare some small bouchees, half of them white and the rest pink, and glaze them. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cheese out on to a glass dish with a stand, garnish with the bouchees (see Fig. 673), and serve. (2) Pick over about lib. of Strawberries, put them in a mortar with some caster sugar, and pound them ; next mix a small quantity of melted isinglass and 1 pint of well-whipped