477 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Souffles—continued. (6) Boil J pint of thin cream with a flavouring of cinnamon and lemon-peel, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Put Jib. of fresh butter over the fire in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir them well together; then strain the cream, and stir it in. Stir in next the beaten yolks of four eggs, and mix well over the fire, but do not let it boil again. Take it from the fire when all the yolks are well mixed, and stir in lightly the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a mould well, stick dried fruit over the inside, pour the pudding in, lay a piece of buttered paper on top of it, tie a cloth over it, and boil for an-hour-and a-lialf. Take the pudding out of the saucepan five minutes before turning it out of the mould. (7) Stir into J pint of boiling milk as much ground rice as will make it into a stiff paste, and continue stirring till the ground rice is well boiled. Take it from the fire, add a very little salt, sugar to taste, and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Then beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix it in. Bake for fifteen minutes in a hot oven, glaze with caster sugar, and serve immediately. (8) Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then sift in gradually a little over Jib. of caster sugar and Fig. 618. Souffles in Small Round Cases. 2 table-spoonfuls of bruised candied orange-flowers. Three parts fill some Souffle-cases with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked the Souffles should be served at once. See Fig. 618. Iced Souffle (Savoury).—Cut up either some lobster, crab, or chicken-flesh into small pieces, put it into a basin with a little salad-oil, vinegar, and mayonnaise sauce, season it with salt and pepper, and let it macerate for two hours. Whip some liquid aspic jelly to a stiff froth, and mask the bottom of a silver Souffle-dish with some of it; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of aspic, and so on until the dish is nearly full. Put a strip of thick paper round the rim of the dish, fasten it round securely, then fill up the dish with whipped aspic. Pack the Souffle in pounded ice till ready to serve, then remove the strip of paper. Iced Souffle (Sweet).—(1) Stand a large bowl in hot water, and put into it the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of 32deg. syrup, J pint each of strained strawberry-juice and maraschino, and a little salt. Beat the above ingredients lightly till creamy and well mixed; then take the basin out of the hot water, and continue the whipping for a few minutes longer. Stir in gently with the above mixture f pint of whipped cream, then turn all into a sou (116-case; fix a 2in. wide strip of cartridge-paper round the rim of the case and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, remove the band of paper, and sprinkle some finely-powdered brown- baked savoy biscuits on the top. (2) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and whisk them over the fire till on the point of boiling; then take it oft’ at once, and continue whipping till nearly cold. Mix with the above ingredients 1 qt. of whipped cream and 1 wineglassful of rum. Stand the Souffle-mould on ice for a few minutes to get thoroughly cold, then fasten round it a strip of cartridge paper, allowing it to come 1 Jin. above the rim. Pour the mixture into the mould, pack it in pounded ice and salt, and freeze it for about two hours. Remove the strip of paper from the mould, sprinkle powdered biscuit over it, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of ten eggs and J pint of cold water into a stewpan, stand it in a larger one containing boiling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Souffles—continued. water, and whisk the ingredients till light and hot; then take the little stewpan out of the big one, stand it on ice, and whisk till the contents are cold. Whip J pint of cream to a stiff froth, then mix with it an equal quantity of syrup, and flavour it to taste with liqueur. Soak some slices of sponge cake in wine, put them at the bottom of a Souffle-mould, pour the above mixture over them, and fasten a band of paper round the mould. Set the Souffle in a freezing-box, and pack it in ice mixed with salt and saltpetre. When ready to serve, remove the paper, put the mould on a folded napkin, and sprinkle crushed ratafia biscuits over the top. (4) Pour into a stewpan nearly J pint of syrup at 38deg., and put in with it half a stick of vanilla. Put the yolks of seven eggs into a sugar-pan. Place the syrup over the fire, and when it begins to bubble move it off and pour it gradually into the eggs, beating them well at the same time with a whisk; place them over the fire, and whip them for two minutes, then take them off’, and continue to whip them till cool. Place the pan on ice, and beat in 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream that has been sweetened with caster sugar and flavoured with vanilla. Fill about fifteen small folded paper cases with the Souffle mixture, then arrange them in a freezing-box, close it, and pack it again in ice. When ready to serve the Souffles (they should not be taken out of the ice under half-an-hour), sprinkle each one with biscuit powder that has been mixed with a small quantity of vanilla sugar, and arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper placed on a glass dish. They should be served at once when taken out of the ice, or they null soon spoil. (5) Put in a large basin the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of syrup at 32deg., 2 wineglassfuls of curacoa, and 1 wineglassful each of orange-juice and orange-flower water. Stand the basin in a larger one containing boiling water, and whip the contents till creamy and jixst warm; then take the basin out of the water, whip the mixture a few minutes longer, and mix in J pint of whipped cream. Fasten a wide strip of cartridge-paper round the edge of a Souffle-mould, turn the mixture into it, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve the Souffle, remove the paper from the case, and sprinkle some powdered brown biscuits over it. (6) Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with 1 pint of syrup at 32deg.; then stand the basin in a larger one containing boiling water, add a small quantity of noyau and J pint of strained cherry-juice, and whip them all together till frothy; then take the basin out of the water, whip the contents for a few minutes longer, and mix in J pint of well- whipped cream. Bind a strip of paper round a Souffle- mould, letting it rise 2in. above the rim, pour the above mixture into it, and pack it in ice till frozen. Remove the strip of paper from the Souffle-mould, sprinkle some crushed macaroons over the top of the Souffle, and serve it. (7) Mix together the yolks of fifteen eggs, 1 pint of 32deg. syrup, f pint of filtered raspberry-juice, 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and the strained juice of one lemon. Proceed as for Iced Souffle No. 2, adding at the last 2oz. of chocolate drops and J pint of whipped cream. Turn the mixture into a Souffle-case round which a broad band of cartridge-paper has been fastened to prevent the Souffle rising over the^edges. Pack the Souffle in pounded ice, and leave it to freeze for two hours. Remove the band ot paper from the Souffle-case, sprinkle powdered baked savoy biscuits over the Souffle’ and serve it at once. (8) Put lib. of caster sugar into a lined stewpan with 1 pint of water and the well-beaten white of an e^ and boil it over a slow fire; skim the syrup until no" scum remains, then strain it through muslin until quite clear Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of the syrup up witli the yolks of seven eggs, the white of one, and J wineglassful of maraschino. Pour the mixture in a basin that has been stood m a saucepan with warm water round it, stand it near the fire, and whisk the contents briskly until thev are of the consistency of a light batter. Fix a thick band ol white paper round a Souffle mould in such a way that Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.