629 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—continued. freezer, adding it slowly to the infusion, and work well. When it is set, put it on a dish in lumps or blocks, and serve. Truffles with Montglas.—Peel five or six middling-sized Truffles, wash them well, dry them, cut them up into rather large-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan, pour over a little Madeira wine, and cook over a brisk fire until the liquor is reduced. Add a little melted glaze, and butter pulled in pieces, warm for a minute or two, remove j the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the juice of one I lemon. Cut into pieces an equal quantity of cooked white fowl meat, and put it into a saucepan with a few table- spoonfuls of white sauce, reduced and warmed, to thicken the mince. Put this on a dish, make a hollow in the centre, turn the Truffles in, and serve. Truffle Omelet.—Well wash two or three large Truffles, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine, champagne, or marsala to nearly if not quite cover them, and boil for ten minutes with the lid on the pan. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the Truffles warm in the stock for half-an-hour or so. Take them out, peel them, and chop them up very fine. Beat four eggs in a basin, add a little chopped parsley, salt, ami pepper, turn the omelet into a frying-pan with about ljoz. of butter made hot, and cook until it is yellow, but not brown. Put a part or the whole of the cooked Truffles, with a little of the liquor they were stewed in, in the centre of the omelet, fold it over, put it on a dish, and serve at once. Truffle-and-Potato Salad.—Cut in slices a few cooked peeled Truffles and potatoes, arrange them alternately in a salad-bowl well brushed with oil, garnish with small cooked onions and stoned olives, pour over a mixture of oil and vinegar, or oil and white wine, and serve. The salad should be allowed to soak for at least two hours before being used. Truffle Pudding.—Chop fine Jib. each of pork and fat livers and Jib. of ham, all uncooked, put them into a mortar, season highly, pound them well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Scrub and well wash lib. of black Truffles, cut them up into rather thick slices, put them into a basin, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Put J tumblerful of Madeira into a saucepan, add a handful of Truffle trimmings, and reduce the liquor to half its original quantity ; strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add a third of its bulk in meat glaze, boil up, thicken with butter rolled in flour, and remove the pan from the fire, and let the sauce get cold. Line a well-buttered dome-shaped mould or basin with suet crust, mask it with a thin coating of the mince, put in the Truffles in layers in the centre, pouring the sauce over the layer, and cover over with the remainder of the mince. Put a covering of the suet crust over the whole. Damp the centre of a cloth, well butter and floru- it, and tie it over the mould or basin, tying it tightly underneath. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, cover over with the lid, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. When done, turn the pudding out on to a dish, glaze it with the paste-brush, and serve with thin Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. Truffle Salad.—(1) Pick out all the black spots from five or six white Truffles, wash them well, wipe them dry on a cloth, and chop them up as small as possible. Put a little oil into a saucepan, add two or three fillets of anchovies rubbed through a fine sieve, make the oil hot, add the Truffles and a little seasoning, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, toss it for a minute or two, turn the salad into a bowl, and serve. (2) Well wash and peel five or six fresh black Truffles, chop them very fine, put them into a basin, and cover them over. Cut away the hard leaves from three tender artichokes, divide the tender leaves in halves, cutting them down the middle, and c t them up into very thin, small slices. Put them into a flat basin, sprinkle them over with salt, let them remain for ten minutes, and then wipe them on a cloth. Rub the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in Truffles—continued. a little mustard and vinegar, and 1 teacupful of olive oil. Put a layer of Truffles at the bottom of a salad- bowl, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cover over with a layer of artichokes, sprinkle over more salt and pepper, and continue in this way until the whole is used up, pouring a little of the dressing over each layer until it also is used up. Let the preparation stand for ten minutes, toss it well so as to get the dressing thoroughly mixed with the artichokes and Truffles, and the salad is then ready for serving. (3) Prussian.—Wash and peel three or four black Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little white wine, sprinkle over a little salt, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil for about four minutes. Take out the Truffles, chop them very fine, season them with salt and pepper, put them into a basin, pour over a little salad- oil, and let them stand for ten minutes, with a cover over the basin. Sprinkle over a little each of chopped parsley, chives, and tarragon, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise sauce. Mix a little more of this sauce with some made mustard, pour it over the inside of a salad-bowl, put in the salad, and serve. Truffle Sauce.—(1) Cut five or six large Truffles into quarters, put them in a stewpan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish sauce and § wineglassful of sherry, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for forty minutes. Pour a small quantity of veal stock into the sauce now and then as it becomes reduced. Strain the sauce, chop the Truffles coarsely, return them to the stewpan with the sauce, and stir them over the fire until boiling again. It is then ready for serving. (2) Chop three Truffles, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, and a very small quantity of chopped shallot. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock that has been perfectly freed of fat, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the sauce gently for ten minutes, and serve when ready. (3) Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, and put in one chopped shallot, J table-spoonful of flour, and some coarsely- chopped trimmings of Truffles. Pour in 1 pint of clear stock that is quite free of fat, and 1 wineglassful of sherry; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. At the end of that time, strain the sauce, and it is ready for serving. (4) Put eight French preserved Truffles into a mortar, pound them well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Put into a saucepan a few slices of onion, turnip, and carrot, a sprig of parsley, half a bay-leaf, loz. of raw lean ham, and loz. of butter. Stir well over the fire until the whole is cooked and quite tender, add J wineglassful of white wine and the puree of Truffles, stir in a little flour, and pour in 8 or 9 table-spooonfuls of brown sauce. Boil for ten minutes, rub the preparation through a sieve into another saucepan, add a little clear soup or consomme, boil up once more, stir in a little moist sugar and salt if desired, and the sauce is then ready for use. (5) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of half glaze into a sauce- pan, and stir well over the fire until it is reduced to 1J teacupfuls, or a third of its original quantity. Add four good-sized preserved French Truffles cut in slices, and a little moist sugar, remove the pan at once from the fire, and the sauce is ready for use. Bechamel or white sauce may be substituted for the half-glaze, but 1 teacupful of cream must then be added after the sauce is cooked, as it will require to be thicker-. (6) Make J pint of brown sauce, and put into it four large coarsely-chopped Truffles and 1 liqueur-glassful of sherry. Boil the sauce for half-an-hour, then skim it, thin it if necessary with a small quantity of stock, and serve. Truffle Stuffing- for Turkey.—Well brush 1 Jib. of Truffles, peel them, mince the peel very fine, cut the Truffles into slices, put them all into a saucepan with Jib. of minced fat bacon and any obtainable fat from the turkey, also a good-sized lump of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook for ten minutes, and let it get cold before using. A turkey should be stuffed with this three days before it is cooked, and Truffle sauce should accompany..