TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 465 Soles—continued. some finely-chopped truffles, mushrooms, and sweetbreads; pour in a little stock and boil them for a few minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Fill the pan containing the fillets, &c., with the above mince, cover it with puff paste, and bake it. When cooked, turn the mixture out of the pan on to a drainer on a hot dish, remove the paste and slices of bacon, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce and stock mixed in equal quantities. Baked Soles with Mushrooms.—Clean and pare off the dark skin of a thick pair of soles, split them in the middle, and lay them in a buttered baking-dish, Blanch twenty four oysters, strain their liquor, pour it over the Soles together with 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with pepper and salt, and bake in the oven. When cooked, drain the liquor off the Soles into a saucepan, and mix with it a chopped onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the saucepan, and boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity ; strain it, mix with it twelve raw button-mushrooms cut into halves, and an equal quantity of brown sauce. Boil the sauce again till reduced to a thick creamy consistency, then move it from the fire; mix with it |lb. of butter broken into small pieces, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the sauce till the butter has dissolved. Put the Soles on to a hot dish, garnish them with the oysters and mushrooms, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Baked Soles with Ravigote Sauce.—Clean and wash a pair of plump Soles, lay them in a thickly-buttered baking- dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover witli a sheet of buttered paper. Rub a stewpan over with garlic and put in it loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour; mix them over the fire, and pour in a sufficient quantity of stock to make the sauce, with 1 wineglassful of sherry. Add to the sauce some finely minced tarragon, parsley, and garden cress in equal quantities, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for a few minutes. Bake the Soles in the oven, place them on a hot dish when cooked, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the sauce, and put in ^oz. of butter broken into small bits. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Baked Sole with Wine Sauce.—Clean, trim off the gills and dark skin, and scrape the white side of a large Sole; make a deep incision each side of the backbone, and cut off the fins. Thickly butter the inside of a gratin-pan, and put in the sole ; season with a little pepper and salt, pour over it 1 pint of French white wine, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Put about loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir them over the fire till well mixed, then add I h breakfast-cupfuls of water and a little pepper and salt; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sole into the sauce, boil all up together, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire; put in loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and stir it till the butter has melted. Put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Boiled Soles.—Clean the Soles without skinning, trim off the fins, and put them in a fish-kettle with plenty of water and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the fish- Fig. 603. Boiled Soles. kettle to the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer gently till the Soles are done. When cooked, put the Soles on a hot dish, the dark sides downwards. Garnish the Soles with fried parsley and slices of lemon (see Fig. 603), Soles—continued. and serve them with a sauceboatful of shrimp sauce. Anchovy sauce may be used in place of the shrimp sauce, if desired. Boiled Stuffed Soles.—The Soles must be skinned and opened down the back, and a good-sized piece of the back- bone taken out; put the fish in a fish-kettle with a little white wine, and partially boil them. Drain the fish and leave them till cold. Chop a few chives, mushrooms, and parsley, mix them together with a little butter, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Soles with the above forcemeat, and finish cooking them in a little stock. Put the Soles on a hot dish, squeeze over some lemon-juice, and pour the white wine, in which they were first boiled, over them. Serve the Soles while hot. Bouchees of Sole.—Wash and clean a fine Sole, and separate the fillets from the bones. Put the fillets in a saute-pan with a lump of butter, a little salt, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and saut6 them. When cooked, drain the fillets and place them between two plates till cold. Prepare some puff paste, giving it six turns, roll it out, then with a fluted cutter *2in. in diameter cut out eighteen rounds; put them on a slightly buttered baking-sheet, and leave them in a cold place for ten minutes. With a plain ljin. tin-cutter, cut through the centre of each bouchee one- third of the thickness of the paste, dipping the cutter in hot water occasionally ; this will form the lid of the bouchee. Brush the bouchees over with beaten egg and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, take off the covers of the bouchees, and scoop out some of the soft paste, smoothing it over with the handle of a knife. Cut the cold fillets of Sole into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with some German sauce, and warm them. Fill the bouchees with the salpicon, replace their covers, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Sole.—Skin anil clean a Sole, dust it on both sides with pepper and salt, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over it; dip the Sole in warmed butter, cover it well with finely-grated breadcrumbs, put it on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when brown on one side, and finishing it the other. Bone an anchovy, put the flesh into a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound it, then place it in a small saucepan, with 1 wineglassful of dry white wine and the strained juice of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. When cooked put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Consomme of Sole.—Pick the flesh carefully off the bones of a pair of Soles, and cut it into small equal-sized pieces; put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, a stick of celery, one onion, half a blade of mace, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Poul- in with the above articles lqt. of white stock and boil it, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the stock simmering gently for four hours. Skim and strain the stock, return it to the saucepan, and when it boils up again put in the pieces of Sole and boil them gently till tender. Turn the consomme, when cooked into a large soup-tureen, sprinkle in it a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve with a plateful of sippets of toast. Curried Soles.—Bone two Soles and cut them into small neat pieces. Finely chop an onion, put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it till brown; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder, and stir it till well mixed. Put the Soles into the stewpan with the onions, cover them with stock, and boil quickly for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, turn the Soles and their sauce on to a hot dish, and serve with a separate dish of boiled rice. Billets of Sole aux Anchois (with Anchovies).—Fry the fillets of a Sole in a little salad-oil, season them with salt and pepper, and press them between two dishes till cold. Bone and clean four anchovies, and divide each one into four fillets. Cut the fillets of Sole into pieces, about the same size as the anchovy fillets, mix them together, and pile them on a dish (see Fig. 604). Mix with a VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. H