448 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Shortbread—continued. (4) Put into a large earthen bowl 3 breakfast-cupfuls of light bread dough, add to it three eggs beaten for two minutes with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar and 3 table-spoon- fuls of slightly warmed butter, and knead all these ingre- dients together with the hand until the dough is soft and smooth. Put it into buttered baking-pans, cover the pans with a folded towel, and set them for fifteen minutes to rise near the stove, where a gentle heat will strike them; then bake the Shortcakes in a moderate oven until a small knife or fork thrust into them does not show any sign of moisture. When the Shortcakes are baked, tear them open, first breaking the edges apart with a fork, butter them, put fruit or preserves over them, with sugar to taste, and serve them either hot or cold. French Shortbread.—Run 12oz. of butter into 21b. of flour, make a cavity in the centre, and add four eggs, 12oz. of sugar, and Joz. of ammonia. Beat these together first with the hand, and gradually work in the flour and butter, making the whole into a stiffish dough. Weigh off about 12oz. at a time, roll or flatten them, mark them into eight, put a little candied peel in the centre of each, and bake in a quick oven. Divide the pieces with a knife, and serve cold. Scotch Shortbread.—(1) Put 21b. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream with a wooden spoon; add slowly 20oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, stirring well to obtain a white appearance, add a little lemon-zest and •a small quantity of milk, and stir in sufficient flour to make a short paste, taking care not to have it too stiff. Divide it into pieces, roll them out to about Jin. in thickness, forming them square or oval as desired, pinch the edges all round with the finger, dock the surfaces with a biscuit docker, put a few caraway comfits on the tops (see Fig. 570), put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out, and use when cold. (2) Rub lib. of fresh butter in 21b. of flour until perfectly smooth; then add Jib. of sugar and a small quantity of salt, and moisten with water to a stiff paste. Dredge a little flour over a table or paste board, put the paste on it, and roll it out to about Jin. thick. Cut the paste into squares or oval-shaped pieces, and dock them over with a biscuit-docker. Dredge them over with caster sugar, lay them on a baking sheet that has been covered with buttered paper, and put them in a slow oven. In about twenty minutes dredge the pieces of cake over with more caster sugar, and bake them for ten minutes longer. (3) Mix with lflb. of finely sifted white flour Jib. of ground rice, Jib. of caster sugar, Jib. of blanched and finely- chopped sweet almonds, and Jib. of finely chopped candied orange and lemon peel. Take 1 Jib. of fresh butter, keep it in a block, and work in the above ingredients. When they are well mixed with the butter, almost forming a dough, cut it in halves, and mould each into a square cake about 1 in. in thickness, pinching them round the edges with the fingers, and pricking over the top with a skewer. Ornament the top with comfits. Lay the Shortbread on baking tins, and bake it about an hour in a moderately hot oven. SHORT-CAKES.—See Cakes. SHORT-CRUST.—See Pastes. SHOULDERS.—The bladebones with the forelegs ; usually applied in cookery to lamb, mutton, and veal. SHOWBREAD.—Loaves made of the finest flour, unleavened, which the Jewish priests place upon the altar of the Synagogue, and change once a week. They are twelve in number, representing the twelve tribes of Israel. They are eaten by the priests, and in holy places only. SHREDDING.—A term applied to the cutting or tearing up of vegetables and other things, such as lettuces, almonds, &c., into long thin shreds. SHREWSBURY CAKES.-See Cakes. SHRIMPS {Ft. Crevettes; Ger. Krabben; Ital. Sqiiille; Sp. Camarones)—These peculiar little shell-fish derive their name from a habit they have of curling up or shrinking when caught. There are several kinds, amongst which are the brown or hornless Shrimp (Crangon vulyaris) and horned Shrimp or prawn. This latter is treated under its own heading. Buttered Shrimps.—Shell some Shrimps and put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, a little pepper and salt, and stir them over the fire until hot. Fry some thin slices of bread in butter, drain them when a golden brown, and put them on a hot dish; pile the buttered Shrimps on the bread, and serve. Forcemeat of Shrimps.—Take about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Shrimps, remove the shells, chop them up into very fine pieces, and add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, a little mace, and salt and pepper. Put them into a mortar, and pound together with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a firm paste. Add the yolk of an egg to form the mixture into a smooth paste, and use it for stuffing a fish to be baked. Potted Shrimps.—Pick some Shrimps from their shells, season them to taste with salt and cayenne, and pack them tightly into pots. Have some butter in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils pour it over the Shrimps till they are quite covered and the pots almost filled; let them get quite cold, then pour over the top boiling butter and lard mixed, so that the air cannot reach the butter first poured in. The shrimps may also be pounded and softened with butter, then pressed into a shallow jar and covered with oiled butter. Salpipon of Shrimps.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from a dozen large Shrimps, all chopped up small. Thicken well, and let it cook for five minutes, then serve. Scalloped Shrimps.—(1) Prepare J pint of tomato sauce and put in with it J pint of picked Shrimps and 1 wineglass- ful of wine, either red or white. Stir the above ingredients in a saucepan over the fire till hot, then turn them into a scallop-dish; cover the top with finely-grated breadcrumbs, put three or four lumps of butter over them, and bake till browned. When well coloured take the dish out of the oven, and serve the Shrimps while hot. (2) Shell 1 pint of fresh Shrimps, and put them in some metal scallop shells with a small piece of butter in each shell. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then pour in gradually 1 scant breakfast-cupful of milk, and season with a few drops of anchovy sauce and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until tliickened, then pour a little of it over the Shrimps in each shell; strew grated breadcrumbs on the top, and brown them under a salamander, or put them for a few minutes in a brisk oven. Set these on a hot dish, and serve. Shrimps a la Normandie.—Skin and remove the heads from 1 pint of fresh Shrimps; put loz. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until melted, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of ground rice; mix in smoothly | pint of new milk, and continue stirring until it is thickened and boiling. Next put in the Shrimps, and leave them until quite hot. When ready turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve.