THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 469 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. veloute sauce that has been mixed with a little lobster butter, and dust a little cayenne pepper over; fill the centre with a group of prawns, put a slice of black truffle between each fillet, and serve them with a sauceboatful of prawns and veloute sauce. Fillets of Soles in Cases.—Put 1 teacupful of finely-minced mushrooms into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, add a lump of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Toss the above ingredients over the fire till cooked, then put them by till cold. Fillet the Soles, mask one side of them with the above mixture, roll them up, secure them with a piece of thread, put them between two buttered plates, and bake them. Prepare some white sauce. Put each fillet into a small paper case, put a small mushroom on the top of each, fill up the cases with the hot sauce, and serve them at once. Fillets of Sole with Crayfish and Truffles.—Skin the fillets and remove them from the bones, fold them in two, and fix a crayfish-claw in the top of each fillet. Butter a saute-pan, put in the fillets, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. When cooked, arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and fill the centre with sliced truffles and picked prawns; pour over the prawns and truffles some German sauce that has been finished with crayfish butter, and serve them with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Fillets of Soles with Oysters.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Soles, trim them, and fry them in a little butter. Fix a bread croustade on a hot dish, and fill it with oysters mixed in German sauce. When cooked, arrange the fillets round the croustade, pour a little German sauce over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Fillets of Soles with Ravigote Sauce.—(1) Put some fillets of Soles into a saute-pan with a lump of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt, and cook them over a slow fire, but do not brown them. Put 2A teacupfuls of white sauce into a saucepan with 1 h teacup- fuls of white broth, and boil for three or four minutes, keeping it well stirred. Mix a little chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon with 2oz. of fresh butter, and stir it into the sauce, with 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt, and keep it stirred over the fire for a minute longer. Put the fillets on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. (2) Skin and wash the Soles, but do not empty them, remove the fillets with a knife, cut them into two pieces each, put them in a saute-pan with some warmed butter, and dust pepper and salt over them. Put 3 table-spoon- fuls of thick bechamel sauce into a saucepan with 1 tea- spoonful each of elder and ravigote vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of caviare, and Jib. of butter, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley that has been steeped in salt and water to keep it very green, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Saute the Soles, and when cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the ravigote sauce over, and serve. Fricandeau of Soles.—Boil a thick pah- of Soles till cooked ; drain, and leave them till cool, then skin and bone them, and chop the flesh finely with about twenty washed and bearded oysters and two filleted anchovies, seasoning to taste with a little grated nutmeg, cayenne, and pounded mace. Soak two penny rolls in a little over 1 teacupful of white wine, then mix with them the yolks of three well-beaten eggs; put them into a saucepan with the minced fish and \ teacupful of cream. Stir the above ingredients over a very slow fire till hot, then turn them into a buttered mould, cover them thickly with breadcrumbs, stand the mould in a Dutch oven, and brown the contents in front of a quick clear fire. When done, turn the fricandeau carefully out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve it. Fricassee of Soles.—Remove the fillets carefully from a pair of Soles, and put the bones and trimmings into a lined saucepan with a bunch of parsley and thyme, half a blade Soles—continued. of mace, a little thinly-peeled lemon-rind, and 1 pint of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently from tliree- quarters-of-an-hour to an hour. Roll the fillets up and tie each one separately with a piece of thread, put them into a stewpan, and strain the liquor from the bones over them. Cook the fillets gently for twenty minutes, then stir into the sauce £ table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed smooth with a little water, and continue stirring it over the fire till thick; then pour in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 1 teacupful of cream and the juice of half a lemon. Move the saucepan off the fire when the sauce is on the point of boiling again, as it must not boil after the eggs are added. Season the whole with a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, turn it on to a hot dish, put a border of potato croquettes round, and serve. Fried Fillets of Sole.—Put a Sole in a deep dish, season it with chopped sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, cover it with white wine, and leave it to soak for half-an-hour. A few minutes before serving fillet the Sole, dip the fillets in milk, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in lard. When nicely browned, put the fillets on a folded napkin placed on a hot dish, and garnish them with fried parsley and slices of lemon. Fried Soles.—(1) Skin 2 pairs of Soles on both sides, empty them carefully so as not to injure the flesh, and make an incision in the back of each. Fry the Soles in boiling fat, drain them, open the places where the incisions have been made, cut the bone near the head and tail, and draw it out. Make some steward’s sauce and stuff the Soles with it, then stick down the openings again with a little yolk of egg, dip the Soles into beaten eggs, and cover them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping into a frying-pan, and when it is hot put the Soles in and fry them till nicely browned. Arrange the Soles on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean the Soles well, skin them, dry thoroughly with a soft cloth, brush them over with beaten egg, and then dip them in finely-sifted breadcrumbs. It improves their appearance to let them stand five or six minutes, and then egg-and-breadcrumb them a second time. Fry them in boiling lard or oil, and serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. Fried Soles with Colbert Sauce.—Select six small Soles, cut off' their heads, and make an incision down the back- bone of each. Season with 1 pinch of salt, A- pinch of pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, roll in fresh breadcrumbs and beaten eggs, flatten them well, and leave them to drip for a few minutes. Fry them for three minutes in very hot fat, drain, add another l pinch of salt, and arrange them on a folded napkin placed on a dish, garnish with a small bunch of fried parsley, and serve with \ pint of Colbert sauce in a tureen. Fried Sole Cutlets.—Clean the Soles and cut the fillets into narrow pieces crossways, dust some flour over them, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter into a frying-pan, and when it is Fig. 608. Fried Sole Cutlets. hot put the pieces of Sole in and fry them. When nicely browned, drain, and arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish covered by an ornamental paper, fill the centre with fried parsley (see Fig. C08), and serve them. Grenade of Sole —Clean a large Sole, split it down the back, and bone it, and lard it inwardly with thin strips of