THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 578 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &>c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea—continued. spoonfuls of double cream, and boil it again to the crack. Oil a marble slab by wiping over carefully with a piece of rag, or cotton waste, dipped in olive oil, and when the sugar is cooling pour it on to the slab. Score the surface with the point of a knife into lin. squares, and when the caramel is cold break it asunder. Or if you have a lin. square sugar-cutter, cut the tablets with it before the caramel is quite cold, put them on a sieve, and leave them in a dry place for a short time to harden. Tea Cream.—(1) Take loz. of good Black Tea, put it into a, stewpan with J pint of boiling cream, and let it stand for some time so as to get all the flavour out of the Tea- leaves; strain it through a napkin with pressure bv wring- ing it both ends into a basin, add ^ pint of good whipped cream, loz. of isinglass, and sweetening to taste. Mix well together, pour it into a mould, let it set, and it is ready for use. (2) Put 1J pints of milk into a lined saucepan with Joz. of Green Tea and lioz. of isinglass, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil the whole until the isinglass is dissolved. Strain the Tea through muslin into a mould, and set it on ice or in a cool temperature until quite cold. Prepare a nicely-flavoured and sweetened custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve, turn the Tea cream out of its mould on to a fancy dish and pour the custard over it. Tea Cream Ice.—Prepare a little strong decoction of Tea, put it into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream and the yolks of eight eggs, and with these form a custard. Turn it out into a basin, let it get cold, and add 1 wine- glassful of brandy and sufficient syrup or sugar to sweeten; freeze in a freezer, and mould or not as required. Tea Cream Jelly (Creme du The).— Put 2£oz. of gelatine, fib. of loaf sugar, and 2h pints of water into a stewpan; beat the whites of two eggs with the juice of one lemon, mix them with the gelatine, and whisk them over the .fire till on the point of boiling. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag two or three times until it is quite clear. When quite cold, add 1 breakfast-cupful of Tea cream to the above mixture, stir it well, then put it into a mould and pack it in ice. In about two hours’ time, or when ready to serve, dip the mould into tepid water to loosen the jelly from the sides, then turn it quickly on to a dish. Tea Cup.—Infuse 1 table-spoonful of Tea in lqt. of boiling water for a few minutes, then strain and leave it until cold. Cut a large lemon into thin slices, put it into the Tea, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, stir until the sugar has dissolved, then mix in £ pint of brandy. Pour the mixture into a glass jug, and stand it on ice until very cold. The Tea cup must not be left until it is frozen before it is served. Tea in Dutch Style.—Put 4 teaspoonfuls of Green Tea in a Tea-pot, and add about J teacupful of pearl barley, a small piece of stick cinnamon, three or four bruised cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and \ salt- spoonful of saffron. Fill the Tea-pot with boiling water, and close up the spout with paper or a cork; stand it by the side of the fire, and let the contents infuse for nearly an hour. Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan and place it over the fire until boiling; beat two or three yolks of eggs, mix them with the boiling milk, then pour in the Tea infusion, and serve while very hot. Tea Jelly.—(1) Make an infusion of toz. of Black Tea in lqt. of water, strain, and mix a small quantity of brandy with it. Wash a set of calf’s feet, put them in a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil it till reduced to 2qts. Strain the liquid through a line hair sieve into a basin, leave it till cold, then skim off the grease, and pour it very gently into a saucepan, so as not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Mix the infusion of Tea with the jelly, add the whites of eight eggs well whisked, 21b. of loaf sugar, and the juice of four lemons. Stir the mixture with a whisk till boiling, and Alter it through a tine flannel bag. When quite clear turn the jelly into jelly moulds and leave till firm. (2) Infuse ioz. of Green Tea in lqt. of water. Put a set of calf’s feet in 4qts. of water, and boil till reduced Tea—continued. to 2qts.; strain the liquid through a fine hair sieve, leave it till cold and settled, then skim oft' the fat and put it into a saucepan. Add the whites of twelve eggs to the jelly, the Tea (which Should be strained), 2lb. of loaf sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and the juice of four lemons. Stir the jelly well and boil it, then filter it through a line flannel bag till quite char. Turn the jelly into glass moulds, and leave it till firm. Tea Milk Punch.—Beat the yolk of an egg very light with 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar; stir in gradu- ally 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of fresh milk, and then stir in a cup of very hot Tea. The white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth may be added if desired. Tea milk punch is very useful to invalids suffering from weakness. Tea in Kussian Style.—(1) Put 3 teaspoonfuls of Green Tea in a saucepan with a small piece of stick cinnamon, pour in lqt. of milk, and let it simmer over a slow fire for five minutes. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of a lemon, and keep it hot. Whisk the yolks of five eggs to a stiff froth, then pour the boiling milk gradually into them, whisking at the same time. Serve the Tea while very hot. This is a very pleasant drink in the winter. (2) Place in a Tea-pot 3 table spoonfuls of Tea; pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover it, say about 3 table-spoonfuls, let it infuse for one minute, draw off the water, but do not use it. Pour in \ liqueur-glass- ful of rum and 3 pints of boiling water, let it infuse for four minutes, and serve in cups with rum, thin slices of lemon, and powdered sugar separately. (3) Slice some fresh juicy lemons, pare them or not according to taste (some people liking the bitter flavour of the rind and some preferring the juice without it), and lay a slice at the bottom of each cup. Sweeten with white sugar, and pour the Tea, hot and strong, over it. Tea Souffle.—Infuse some orange-flavoured Pekoe Tea in \ pint of boiling milk for an hour. At the end of that time strain the milk and mix smoothly with it | table- spoonful of potato Hour. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Beat the yolks of four eggs and whisk the whites of six to a stiff froth ; add the yolks to the above mixture and lastly the whites, stirring lightly at the same time. Pour the whole into a souffle mould, leaving room for it to rise, and put it into a quick oven. In about Fig. 767. Tea Souitlis. twenty minutes’ time, take the souffle out of the oven, dust over with caster sugar, and serve in the mould with a napkin folded round it, as for tapioca and other souffles (see Fig. 767). TEA-CAKES.—Tliere is no meal in the world so exceedingly sociable as the old-fashioned homely tea. Nor is there any dish served at these teas so pleasing as a hot Tea-cake. They can be made according to the following