THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 580 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sguces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tea-Pots—continued. acquaintance with the making of tea, it is deserving of considerable attention. Nevertheless, there are not want- ing those who declare in favour of a bright metallic exterior, for reasons that are of a purely scientific character, and presumably correct. To meet these two views a very ingenious combination has been patented by a Mr. Furniss, which consists of a metal Tea-pot lined bodily with porcelain (see Fig. 771). The result is exceed- ingly satisfactory, and proclaims an advance upon the productions of the Chinese, who excel in quaintness of design if not in scientific construction. TEAL (Fr. Cercelles or Sarcelles ; Ger. Kriekente ; Ital. Farchetole ; Sp. Cercetas).—Of all wild fowl there is none that the thoroughbred gourmet prefers to this, unless it be the canvas-back duck. There are varieties of Teal to be met with in almost every part of the world, mostly included in the genus Anas, those better known to us being the com- mon European Teal (Anas crecca) and the blue-winged Teal or Glarganey (A. circia or querquedula). In America there are the Blue-winged, Green-winged, and Cinnamon Teal. As in the case of our domestic brown ducks the male is handsomely plumaged, whereas the female partakes of a plain brown colour only, having very little diversity throughout all the varieties. Teal is best during the winter months, large numbers being shot in the fens of Lincolnshire. The legs should be soft and pliable, indicating freshness. Teal should be trussed for roasting as follows Pluck, draw, and singe a Teal: wash and wipe it well inside. Give each leg a twist at the knuckle, bring the claw to each side, letting them rest on the breast, and keep them in their place by passing a skewer through the thighs and wing pinions. Broiled Teal.—(1) Select three fine, fat Teal; pick, singe, and dry them, cut off their heads, and split the birds into halves without separating the parts. Lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet-oil. Roll them well in it, and put them to broil over a moderate fire for seven minutes on each side. Have ready a hot dish with six large slices of toasted bread, divide the Teal, and lay one-half on the top of each. Spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with a little watercress (see Fig. 772), and serve. (2) Pick and singe two or three Teal, draw them, wipe them on a cloth, and split down the back. Flatten them slightly, sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush over with butter, put them on a gridiron with their inside nearest to the fire, and broil for about fifteen minutes. Put them on a dish, garnish with pieces of toast or with filed potato chips, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat, and red-currant jelly and quarters of lemon on separate dishes. Devilled Teal.—Cut up in small pieces two or three large onions, put them into a mortar, add a small piece of green ginger and six or eight chillies, and pound them to a pulp. Add 2 teaspoonfuls each of mustard and chutney and a little each of cayenne, salt, and pepper: put the mixture into a saucepan, and pour in 1- pint of claret. Cut a Teal in pieces, put them in the saucepan, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is done; it will take a long time. Arrange the pieces of Teal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Teal —continued. Fillets of Teal with Anchovies.—Cut off the fillets from two or three Teal that have been partly roasted, and put them on a well-buttered dish sprinkled over with grated Parmesan cheese; on each of the fillets place a fillet of anchovy. Pour in sufficient stock to moisten, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve. Fillets of Teal with Orange Sauce.—Take four Teal, draw and truss them, put a skewer through them, and roast before a good fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, basting with a brash dipped in a little 11. When they are done, salt them a little, slip the fillets out, and put them into a fiat stewpan with a little glaze at the bottom. Place them over a brisk fire for a minute so that the moisture of the fillets will evaporate, then arrange them on a dish in a circle, pour orange sauce over them, and serve. Boasted Teal.—(1) Pick, singe, draw, wipe, and truss three fine Teal, place them in a roasting-pan, season with 1 pinch of salt, and put them in a brisk oven to roast for fourteen minutes. Untruss them, arrange them on a hot dish, decorate with six slices of fried hominy and a little watercress, and serve. (2) Pluck and singe a pair of Teal, wipe them with a wet towel, cut off the heads and feet, and draw them without breaking the entrails. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper in each bird, and lay them in a dripping-pan; peel an onion, put it into t he pan with the Teal, set the birds in a very hot oven, and bake them for twenty minutes, or roast before the fire for fifteen minutes. In either case baste them every five minutes, adding more butter if it is required for basting. Just before serving the birds season them with salt, and serve with a sauce made as follows while they are being cooked: Peel and chop fine a shallot or small onion, put it over the fire with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and when the butter begins to brown stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour ; when the flour is brown add l pint each of port wine and boiling water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and one grate of nutmeg. Stir the sauce until it boils, and then keep it hot. When the birds are done, pour the drippings from them into the sauce, mix them well with it, anil serve hot. (3) Prepare nicely a couple of Teal. Rub the breasts with the livers till quite red, and roast them in front of a very hot fire, basting them frequently and plentifully with butter for a-quarter-of-an-hour or half-an-hour according to the size of the birds. Melt in a pan over the fire loz. of fresh butter, and mix with it the strained juice of two lemons and a very little cayenne. When the birds are done, put them on a hot dish, score the breasts down to the bone, making the cuts only jin. apart, pour the hot butter and lemon-juice over them, and serve hot. Boasted Teal with Cardoons.—Singe, draw, and trass the required number of birds, wrap them separately in buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast before a clear brisk fire. When all but done remove the paper from the Teal so that they may brown, then put them into a stewpan with 1 teacupful each of white wine and melted glaze, put the stewpan over the fire, and boil the moisture till reduced to half. Remove the strings from the birds, put them on a hot dish, garnish with cardoons, and pour the reduced liquor over them. Serve while very hot. Boasted Teal with Olives.—Draw, clean, and well wash two or three Teal; wipe them inside with a cloth, and insert in the hollow a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Tie several strips of bacon over their breasts, or cover them with greased paper, run them through with a skewer, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear lire for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them off when done, remove the skewers and bacon or paper, and cut each one into quarters. Arrange them on a dish, pour over hot brown sauce mixed with stoned and blanched olives, and serve very hot. Salmis of Teal a la Begence.—Singe, draw, and wipe two Teal; cut off the legs, wings, anil breasts, put the