TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 463 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Soda—continu ed. Soda is often used without acids, its effect being to render cakes “ short ” and floury. It is used in the following receipts: Soda Batter Cakes.—(1) Beat three eggs well together with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk, add 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of bicarbonate of Soda, and stir in gradually a suffi- cient quantity of Hour to make a stiff hatter. When quite smooth let the batter rise, then divide it into equal portions. Lay them on a floured baking-sheet a short distance from each other, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked put the cakes on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve without delay. They are very nice cut open and eaten with butter. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted flour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of Soda. Stir in gradually as much butter-milk as will make a stiff batter. Let the dough rise, then divide it into small cakes; put a lump of lard or butter into a stewpan, and when it boils put in the cakes and fry them until nicely and lightly browned. Drain and serve them at once on a folded napkin placed over a hot dish. Soda Cream.—(1) Dissolve 5lb. of loaf sugar, loz. each of cream of tartar and Ejrsoin salts, and 5oz. of tartaric acid in igall. of water, and heat it till it boils, skimming if necessary. When cool put the syrup in bottles, and set them in a cool place. To prepare the drink, put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of syrup into a tumbler two-thirds full of water, and \ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, stir briskly, and the effervescence will be equal to bottled soda water. (2) Put ljlb. of loaf sugar in a jug with loz. of tar- taric acid, and pour in 1 pint of hot water. Stir it until dissolved, then leave it until cold. Stir in with the mix- ture the well-whisked whites of two eggs and flavour it to taste with any kind of essence liked. Strain the mixture and keep it tightly corked in a bottle. When using put 1 wineglassful of it in a tumbler, till it up with water, and stir in J small saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Soda-and-Cream-of-Tartar Biscuits.—Sift into a basin lqt. of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and salt and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Sift all together twice. Rub in 1 table-spoonful of butter with the fingers until there are no large lumps; mix in about 1 pint of milk adding it gradually, using a broad knife and taking only a small portion of the flour with each addition of the milk. When stiff enough to be handled, not kneaded, cut it through and through with the knjfe. It should look springy in the cuts and seem full of air, Turn it out on a well-floured board, toss with the knife till well floured, touching it with the hands as little as possible; pat it with the rolling-pin, which must be lifted quickly that it may not stick, and when the dough is about Jin. thick cut it into rounds and bake at once. To make thin biscuits roll the dough out less than Jin. thick, cut it into rounds, spread with softened butter, put two together, and bake for ten or fifteen minutes. Soda Scones.—Mix with lib. of flour 1 teaspoonful each of cream of tartar and bicarbonate of soda and J saltspoonful of salt. When wrell mixed make the above ingredients into a paste with J pint of sour milk. Knead the paste for a few minutes on a floured board with floured hands, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, and divide it into equal- sized pieces. Cook them on a baking-sheet over the fire, turning when browned on one side and browning the other. Wrap the scones in a cloth till ready to serve. SODA-WATER.—According to modern customs of manufacturing this useful beverage, the term soda-water is a glaring misnomer, the soda being conspicuous by its absence. A more fitting title would be carbonated water, the rule being amongst aerated water makers to sell under the name of soda-water, plain water injected with carbonic acid gas. Soda-water—continued. Soda-water is generally supplied in long, spindle-shaped bottles that have no stands to them, and are, therefore, by necessity, stocked in a horizontal position, this being desirable when corks are used, bringing the water next the cork instead of the gas which would probably escape thi-ough it. When a bottle is opened for use and only a part poured out at a time, a very con- venient support for the bottle will be found in a stand (see Fig. 600), which is not only useful, but ornamental. See Aerated Waters. SOLES (Fr. Soles, Ger. Seezungen).—Of all the fish that come to our markets there are none so commonly used or stand so high in favour as this fish (Solea vulgaris). It is of a convenient size, and the flesh both sweet and digestible. The name refers to the peculiar shape of the fish, something resembling the sole of the foot. Soles are taken in great numbers out of the English Channel and along the eastern coast of Great Britain, and are in season all the year round. There are two or three varieties, of which tjie French or Lemon Sole is one. It differs from the true Sole in the colour of the upper skin, which, in this case, is of a pale dusky red. The under skins are white, or nearly so, in both kinds, but the upper skin of the true Sole is dark and rough. A Sole may be cleaned and skinned for cooking by cut- ting away the gills and running the point of a knife into the belly, and making a small opening through which the gut is drawn, leaving the roe entire. The skin is next dissected off the head, and then stripped off by pulling it with one hand whilst holding the fish with the other. The fins require cutting off with a pair of scissors or a sharp knife, and the fish washed. When it is desir- able to remove the under skin, this is done in the same way as the upper or dark skin. Soles are filleted by passing the blade of a knife between the bone and the flesh, after cutting round the edge of the fish next the fins, and making a long deep incision down the centre of the back (see Fig. 601). See Boning. Aspic of Billets of Soles.—(1) Fillet the Soles, butter a baking-dish, put in the fillets, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt and pepper; cover the fillets with a sheet of buttered paper and bake them for ten minutes in the oven. When cooked, press the Soles between two plates till cold. Put a layer of pale aspic jelly in a plain mould and leave it till set. Cut the fillets of Soles into small equal-sized rounds, and arrange them tastefully with some fillets of anchovies on the set aspic jelly. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over and cover them with another layer of aspic. Proceed in this manner, putting in alternate layers of Sole and aspic till the mould is full, then pack it in pounded ice. Turn the aspic out of the A Fig. 600. Soda-water stand (Adams and Son).