THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL C0QKER7. 605 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see tender their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. the tops on as a cover, sprinkle over a little clarified butte]', and cover with a well-buttered paper. Bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Thoroughly wash six large, fresh mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; chop up very fine half a peeled shallot, as well as the mushroom stalks, and place them in a pan with 1 table-spoonful of Fig. 805. Tomatoes with Rice. butter and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Season with salt and pepper, and cook for five minutes without browning; add the mushroom tops, with 4 wineglassful of Madeira wine, reduce for two minutes, add £ gill of half glaze, and cook for five minutes longer. Dress the Tomatoes on a hot dish, place one head of mushroom on top of each Tomato, upside down, pour a little of the sauce over the mushrooms, and the rest on the dish round the Tomatoes; arrange a thin slice of truffle on top of each head of mushroom, garnish with fried paisley (see Fig. 805), and send to table. (2) Cut the Tomatoes into halves, and carefully scoop out their insides. Fill them with well-seasoned boiled rice, put them in a stewpan that has been lined with slices of bacon, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, moisten with stock, and stew them gently until done. When cooked, take the Tomatoes carefully out, and place them on a dish. Skim their cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve while very hot. Tomatoes with Sago.—Boil 1 pint of Tomato sauce and 3 pints of consomme for ten minutes in a saucepan, season- ing with h pinch each of salt and pepper; add 2 table- spoonfuls of sago, cook again for fifteen minutes, gently stirring, and serve. Tomato Salad.—(1) Pour boiling water over the required number of Tomatoes, then drain them and remove the skins; leave till quite cold, then divide them into sections. Put the Tomatoes in a salad-bowl, garnish with chopped tarragon- leaves, pour a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, over them, and serve. A mayonnaise dressing can be used instead of a plain dressing if preferred, but it is not advisable. (2) Scald, peel, and cut into slices eight large Tomatoes; place them on a dish, and keep them very cold. Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a mortar, pound them smooth, add 1 table-spoonful each of made mustard and olive oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of cayenne. Work in one well-beaten egg, and lastly § teacupful of vinegar. Put this dressing also in a cold place, sprinkle the Tomatoes with finely-powdered ice and a little salt, pour the dressing over, and serve. (3) Cut some large Tomatoes into halves crosswise, put in each a small quantity of salt, cayenne pepper, and plenty of celery salt. Baste them with a small quantity of tarragon vinegar, prick the mixture inside with a fork, and leave the Tomatoes for twenty or thirty minutes. When ready, • arrange them on a disli and serve. (4) Peel the Tomatoes, then slice and put them in a salad-bowl; cover them with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Moisten the Tomatoes with 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil and 1 wine- glassful of Rhine wine, and serve them. (5) Well wipe six fine, firm, led Tomatoes, plunge them into a bowl of boiling water for one minute, take them out, drain, and peel them. Put them in a cool place, and when quite cold cut them up into slices; arrange them on a dish, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, pour over come vinegar, and serve as a side dish. Tomatoes—continued. (6) Rub a little garlic over a flat dish, pour 1 teaspoon- ful of vinegar over it, and on this arrange three Tomatoes cut in slices; sprinkle over salt and pepper, pour a little vinegar and salad oil over each slice, and serve. This salad is better for being made an hour or so before serving, and may be varied to suit the taste. The dish should only be rubbed once over with the garlic. Tomato Sandwiches.—Cut some ripe Tomatoes into slices about £in. thick; also cut some thin slices of bread-and- butter ; cover half of them with the slices of Tomatoes, strew over some chopped cress, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of freshly-niade mustard, and cover with the remaining slices of bread-and-butter; press them tightly together, trim them neatly round the edges with a sharp knife, and cut them into halves. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the sandwiches on it, garnish them nicely with freshly- gathered and well washed parsley (see Fig. 806), and serve. A little chopped lettuce as well as the cress is also very nice with the Tomatoes. Tomato Sauce.—(1) Cut six shallots into slices ; put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, add a little thyme and a bay-leaf, and cook gently for about five minutes. Mix in 4oz. of Tomato pulp, a little sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and loz. of glaze ; stir well over the fire for five minutes, strain the sauce, and it is ready for use. (2) Place 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix in a saucepan with loz. of butter, cook over a moderate fire for five minutes, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; brown all well. Select lqt. of well-washed, ripe, fresh Tomatoes, cut them into quarters, and plunge them into the saucepan with the rest, stirring briskly with a wooden spoon until they, boil. Season with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and £ teaspoonful each of pepper and powdered sugar. Boil the whole for forty-five minutes ; then strain through a sieve into a jar for use. (3) Put 1 table spoonful each of butter, sugar, and flour into a basin, and beat them to a cream. Scald and peel half-a-dozen large Tomatoes, mince them, put them into a saucepan, and cook. When they are thoroughly done and beaten to a pulp in the saucepan, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, add the butter and flour mixture, stir well, boil for a few minutes, turn the sauce into a tureen, and serve. (4) Cut a dozen Tomatoes in halves, squeeze out the seeds and water, put the Tomatoes into a saucepan, and add a faggot, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water ; cover the saucepan, set it on the fire, and boil the contents for about three-quarters-of-an-liour, stirring fre- quently. Put loz. of butter and 4oz. of flour into a sauce- pan, stir well over the fire for three minutes, take the pan from the fire, and add the pulp from the Tomatoes, passed through a sieve. The pulp should be added a little at a time, and well stirred in. Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of rich broth, and boil for twenty minutes. Should the sauce be too thick, a little more broth may be added; it is then ready for use. If preserved Tomatoes are used, they must be mixed with the butter and flour in the same way as the Tomato pulp. (5) Cut 31b. of Tomatoes in slices, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of chablis, one faggot, and two onions, one stuck with two cloves. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put the saucepan on the fire, and cook the contents for about forty minutes, stirring frequently. When the Tomatoes are done and pulpy, pour in 1 breakfast cupful each of Spanish and veloute sauce and 3 teacupfuls