THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 545 Sweetbreads—continued. sauce, roll them in this sauce, and then string them alternately on little wooden skewers. Have ready some villeroy sauce made by heating some yolks of egg up in a mortar with butter divided into little pieces; add this to the usual white sauce, reduced and made consistent, and boil up. Dip the attereaux in the sauce, made at the same time as they are preparing, and range them on a baking-sheet, at a little distance from one another, to let the sauce cool. Next take them out one by one, trim off superfluous sauce, and roll them in breadcrumbs; dip into beaten egg, and again roll in breadcrumbs ; then plunge them into boiling fat until a good colour. Drain them, remove the wooden skewer, put them on ornamental metal attelettes, and dish on a folded napkin or dish-paper. No sauce is necessary for these. Baked Sweetbreads.—Wash the Sweetbreads, put them into a saucepan with salted water, and partially boil them. Drain and dry the Sweetbreads, split them into halves, rub them over with butter, and season with pepper and salt. Beat an egg on a plate to a stiff froth, dip the slices of Sweetbreads in it, and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, put in the Sweet- breads, and bake them in a hot oven. When nicely browned put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. .Blanquette of Sweetbreads.—Wash and partially boil four throat Sweetbreads, put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and some onions, cover them with chicken broth, and boil gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, leave the Sweetbreads till cold in the cooking-liquor, then dry and cut them into collops a little over lin. in diameter. Put the collops into a saucepan with some slices of truffles and some German sauce, and boil them up. Fix a paste eroustade 2in. high on a dish that fits it, pour in the above mixture, and serve. Bouchees of Sweetbreads.—Steep two Sweetbreads in cold water till all the blood is removed, then blanch them in boiling water till firm. Cut the Sweetbreads in slices, season them with salt and pepper, and fry them in boiling butter till nicely browned on both sides; drain them, ami when cool cut them in nice squares. Put the pieces of Sweetbreads in a saucepan with half their quantity of cooked mushrooms and a quarter the quantity of ox-tongue, both cut into small pieces. Boil some bechamel sauce Fig. 723. Bouchees of Sweetbreads. with the liquor of the mushrooms till reduced to a creamy consistency, then mix a little melted glaze with it and stir it in with the salpicon of Sweetbreads, &c. Stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Make a puff paste with lib. each of butter and flour, give it five-and-a-half turns, then leave it for a few minutes. Roll the paste on a floured table into a thin square, then with a plain tin cutter, ‘2in. in diameter, cut out thirty rounds. Sprinkle a little water on a baking-sheet, lay half the rounds on it, putting them a short distance from each other, and brush them over with a paste brush dipped in water. With a tin cutter, lin. in diameter, cut the centres out of the other flats of paste; put the rings that will be left one on each of the flats (see A, Fig. 723) on the baking-sheet. Prick the flats and small rounds here and there, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake them in a quick oven for nearly twenty minutes. When nicely and lightly browned take the _ bouchees out of the oven, remove them from the baking-sheet, fill them with the Sweetbread mixture, and Sweetbreads—continued. lay the small rounds on top (see B, Fig. 723). Arrange the bouchees on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once. Braised Sweetbreads.—(1) Take six blanched heart Sweet- breads, lard the upper parts slightly, and put them in a braising-pan with some slices of fat pork. Add half a sliced carrot, half a sliced onion, and a bouquet garni. Sprinkle over them 1 pinch of salt, and cover with buttered paper. Cook them to a golden colour on the fire, and moisten with J pint of strong white broth; remove the pan to the oven, and bake the Sweetbreads for forty minutes, basting occasionally with the gravy, lifting the buttered paper, and replacing it each time in the same position. The Sweetbreads will now be ready to serve with any kind of sauce or garnishing required. Always place the sauce or garnishing on a hot dish and lay the Sweetbreads over it, then send to the table. (2) Wash the Sweetbreads, lard them with thin strips of bacon, and boil them for twenty minutes. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with some slices of onion and chopped parsley, and fry them. Drain the Sweetbreads, and put them in with the fried onions and parsley; tie 1 tea- spoonful of sweet herbs in a little muslin, add them to the Sweetbreads, and pour in stock to half their height. Place the lid on the stewpan, put it in the oven, and bake the contents for about forty minutes. When cooked, put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Braised Sweetbreads a la Montglas.—Place six braised Sweetbreads in six small, buttered paper cases, having cooked fine herbs strewn over the bottom. Heat in the oven for five minutes, then pour 1 table-spoonful of hot montglas sauce over each, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Braised Sweetbreads a la Pompadour.—Braise six Sweet- breads; pour i pint of hot bearnaise sauce on a dish, and sprinkle with two truffles cut into small square pieces ; place six artichoke-bottoms over the sauce, put a Sweet bread on each, with a thin slice of truffle on top, and serve. Broiled Sweetbreads a la Colbert.—Cut into halves three fine blanched Sweetbreads; season them with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and pour over 1 table- spoonful of sweet-oil; mix them v eil, and broil them over a brisk fire for live minutes on each side. Dress on a hot dish, and serve with 1 pint of hot colbert sauce poured over. Broiled Sweetbreads a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Split the Sweetbreads into flat slices, dust them with pepper and salt, and rub them well over with flour. Broil the Sweet- breads over a clear fire, turning them frequently, and hasting them with warmed butter. Put jib. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and water, the juice of a lemon, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Put the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, and garnish them with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Casserole of Mock Sweetbreads.—Cut into jin. cubes lib. of uncooked veal, and cook them in a saucepan with one slice of onion and a good supply of boiling salted water; take them out when tender, and put into cold water to whiten. Prepare 1 breakfast-cupful of white sauce, and season with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and celery salt, and i saltspoonful of pepper. Put the veal and \ breakfast cupful of mushrooms cut into quarters into the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. N