THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 550 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. well over tlie lire for about ten minutes, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add the Sweetbreads and half-a- dozen mushrooms, and cook slowly for about half an-hour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbreads in Cases.—Boil the Sweetbreads, then drain and cut them into small pieces, put them in some cream sauce, and season it with salt and pepper. Fill some paper cases with the above mixture, cover them with breadcrumbs, put 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter in each, and set them in the oven. When the mixture is nicely browned on the top, take the cases out of the oven, arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Sweetbread Cromeskies.—Boil an udder of veal in a stock- pot, and when done leave it till cool, then trim and cut into thin slices the whole length of the piece. Blanch some throat Sweetbreads, trim, and cut them into small square pieces; cut an equal quantity of mushrooms in the same way, and mix them together in some stiffly-reduced German sauce. When cold, put portions of the Sweet- bread mixture on the slices of udder, wrap the udder round them, and roll them to the shape of corks. Dip the cromeskies in frying-batter, and fry them in a deep pan in plenty of fat till crisp and lightly browned. Drain the cromeskies, put them on a hot dish, garnish them with Med parsley, and serve. Sweetbread Croquettes.—(1) Blanch the Sweetbreads by soaking them in cold salted water for an hour, bring them to the boiling-point in more cold salted water, then lay them in cold water to cool; afterwards trim off all the flesh and surrounding membrane. Have ready an equal quantity of cold tongue or ham. For 1 pint of this mixture, put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful of grated onion, and let them begin to colour; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and | pint of boiling water, and let the sauce thus made boil. In the meantime, chop or grate the Sweetbreads and tongue or ham, add them to the sauce, and let the mixture boil, stirring it all the time. When the croquette mixture boils, draw it to the side of the fire, stir in the yolks of three raw eggs, and pour it on an oiled dish to cool. Have ready a frying-pan half full of fat over the fire, a dish containing two or three eggs beaten smooth, and a large platter full of cracker-dust or breadcrumbs. Dip the hands in cold water, and make the croquette mixture up in small cork-shaped rolls; put them first in the cracker-dust, then in the beaten egg, and again in the cracker-dust; smooth them on the outside, and fry them golden brown in the hot fat. When they are nicely browned, put them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, then pile them on a dish covered by a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them hot. (2) Chop the remains of some cold Sweetbreads, and mix with them one-third of their quantity of finely-grated bread- crumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of chopped lemon-peel and thyme; if the flavour is liked a small quantity of finely-minced onion can also be added. Put the mixture into tlie stew- pan with ^oz. of butter and £ teacupful of cream. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, being very careful not to let it burn, then move it to the side, and when slightly cooled stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. When quite cold, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, which roll into balls. Egg and breadcrumb them, let them rest awhile, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the croquettes and fry them a delicate brown When cooked, drain and pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Take a parboiled Sweetbread, half a can of mush- rooms finely chopped, and put them into a saucepan with a teacupful of rice, boiled and added whilst warm; season ■with salt and pepper, and moisten with thick cream sauce made hot, until the mixture is thick enough to be handled. Let it cool, shape it, and roll it first in crumhs then in Sweetbreads—continued. egg, and then in crumbs again, plunge it into a frying-pan of hot fat, fry to a fine brown colour, and serve. (4) Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into small pieces; any cold remains will do for this purpose. Make some veiouto sauce, boil it till stiffly reduced, then put in the pieces of Sweetbreads and boil them for two or three minutes. Turn the Sweetbreads on to a dish, and when cold roll them into round or long shapes. Dip the croquettes in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with bunches of fried parsley, and serve. Sweetbread Cutlets.—Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into round pieces, brush them over with beaten egg, then coat them well with finely-grated breadcrumb that has been seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little dried parsley. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it has melted put in the cutlets and fry them till nicely browned. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, with a small crouton of fried bread between each, pour a little thick brown gravy in the centre, and serve. Sweetbread Fricassee.—(1) Cut some cold cooked Sweetbreads into small pieces, put them into a saucepan over the fire, with a small quantity of good well-seasoned gravy, ami let it just come to the boil, then pour it into a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Cut the required quantity of Sweetbreads into small pieces, and flour and fry them in butter. When of a good brown colour, pour over them 1 pint of rich beef gravy highly seasoned, and stew gently until the Sweet- breads are tender; add a little flour and butter to thicken, a little mushroom ketchup to flavour, and serve. Chopped mushrooms may be substituted for the ketchup, and should be cooked with the Sweetbreads. (3) Steep the Sweetbreads for an hour in very cold water, then drain, and put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover; place them over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Throw the Sweetbreads into a basin of cold water to whiten, drain them, peel oft' the outer skin, and cut them into slices. For two Sweetbreads, put into a saucepan 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well blended, then pour in a teacupful of stock. Continue stirring the mixture until boiling, then put in the slices of Sweetbreads, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. Beat one egg well with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, then pour this mixture in with the Sweetbreads, and stir the whole at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes; do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. (4) Partially boil the Sweetbreads and cut them into slices. Put H- pints of veal broth into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of mushroom powder and loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir the gravy over the fire for ten minutes, then add the grated peel of half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of pepper; put in the slices of Sweetbreads and keep them simmering for twenty minutes. Place the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve them with a plate of quarters of lemons. Sweetbreads with Mushrooms.—Boil the Sweetbreads for twenty minutes, then cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with an equal amount of chopped mushrooms, cover with a cream sauce, and boil them for a few minutes. Turn the mixture on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Sweetbread-and-Mushroom Patties.—Soak a Sweetbread in cold water, blanch it in boiling water, take it out, drain, trim it, and remove the skin, fat, and gristle. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, then take it out, drain, and cut it up into pieces about Jin. thick. Well