THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 644 Turbot—continued. spoonfuls of French tomato sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. When very hot, turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot Rechauffe with White Sauce.—Use the remains of cold boiied Turbot, which should be freed from skin and bone, and flaked. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with about 1, pint of milk, pour it into a stewpan, put in Jib. of butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling. If too thick, mix some more milk with the sauce. Put the fish in the sauce with a few cooked button-mushrooms, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole occasionally over the fire until very hot, then move it to the side and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Add a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley. When ready, turn the fish and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. Turbot Rolls.—Take- four round breakfast rolls; cut a small round piece off each roll, and scoop out all the crumb. Chop up half-a-dozen oysters and some cold Turbot, put it into a saucepan together with the strained liquor of the oysters, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, 2oz. of butter, the crumb of two of the rolls, and pepper and salt to taste ; let all stew together for five or six minutes, stir in then 1 table-spoonful of cream, and fill the scooped- out rolls with the mixture. Fit on again the pieces cut off the tops, and put them in the oven to crisp. Serve them very hot in a napkin. Turbot Salad.—Remove the skin and bone from about lib. of cold boiled Turbot; cut up the flesh into very thin slices, put them into a basin, pour over sufficient oil and vinegar to moisten, and sprinkle over salt and finely-chopped parsley. Put a plain border-mould into a basin containing ice, pack it in, and fill the cylinder of the mould with pounded ice. Ornament the sides of the mould with cold freshly-boiled prawns, dipping them in half set jelly to make them adhere, and arranging them in circles, fill the mould slowly with more of the jelly, and let it set. Turn it out on to a cold dish, and in the centre put a little chopped aspic jelly and a little vegetable salad thickened with mayonnaise sauce. Over these again arrange the slices of Turbot in the shape of a dome, Fig. 890. Turbot Salad. putting them in layers and masking them with mayonnaise sauce. Cover the dome with more of the sauce, keeping the surface quite smooth (see Fig. 890), and serve with a sauceboatful more of the sauce. Turbot Saute.—Divide into flakes or small pieces about 2lb. of cold boiled Turbot; put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, toss them over the fire until they are hot, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, remove the pan from the fire, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Turbot—continued. squeeze in the juice of a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and Serve very hot. Turbot in Shells (en Coquilles).—Remove the skin and bones from Jib. or so of cold boiled Turbot, and chop it into small pieces or squares. Put a little veloute sauce into a saucepan with a small quantity of essence of mush- rooms, reduce it, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, stir in the chopped meat, fill some scallop shells with the mixture, cover the top with sifted breadcrumbs, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven, and let them remain until they are warmed and their surfaces browned. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Turbot Soup with Curry.—Clean cut off the head of a small fresh Turbot; cut the body into square pieces, select the finest, and put them by. Place the head in a sauce- pan with the remainder of the fish, also a piece of conger eel and a small bunch of parsley; pour in 2qts. of water and 1 pint of French white wine. Put the lid on the saucepan, set it over a brisk fire, and boil the contents quickly for twenty-live minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put two sliced onions and a sliced leek into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned ; then put in the reserved pieces of Turbot, season them with salt, and fry them for a few minutes. Dredge 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and curry powder over the Turbot, stir it till well mixed, then pour in the broth gradually. Continue stirring until boiling, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and simmer for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the pieces of Turbot out, remove the back skin and bones, and place them in a soup-tureen. Thicken the soup with a liaison of the yolks of four eggs, add a piece of butter, and strain it into the tureen. TUREEN.—This word is probably a corruption of the French Terrine, so called from its being made of Fig. 891. Tureen (Adams & Son). earthenware. The British cook applies the term almost exclusively to a vessel used for serving soup (see Fig. 891). TURIN CAKES.—See Cakes. TURIN ROLLS.—See Bread. TURK’S CAKE.—See Cakes. TURKEYS (Fr. Dindes, Dindons ; Ger. Truthahn).— It was supposed at one time that these birds were of Indian origin, and hence their name ; but more recent researches tend to show that the Turkey is a native of America, as it is found wild in Mexico, and was domesticated by the American Indians long before the discovery of America. The common domestic Turkey, belonging to the genus Meleagris, is now reared and fatted throughout this and other countries, the largest and best coming from Nor- folk, Suffolk, and Cambridgeshire. Turkeys are in season from September to March, and Turkey-poults from March to June. Old male birds, called “ stags,” are in season Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.