TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 572 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tarts and Tartlets —continued. sour, believing that there nmst be some connection, because a fruit pie is generally tart. “ Under this hallucination, they cease to speak of an apple pie. They insist upon calling it an apple Tart. A pie in their view is always for meat—a tart for fruit; and some of the most popular cookery books have caught the delusion and done their best to spread it.” The word “ Tart,” in a culinary sense, has nothing whatever to do with acidity, but is a corruption of the French “ tourte,” derived from tartine—a slice of bread. It comes from the Latin torque—to twist, hence the word torta, a twist or roll of bread. “ Our forefathers,” con- tinues Kettner, “ were, in the middle ages, deficient in plates, and it is curious to read of the little odd contri- vances by which at grand feasts they tried to supply the want, and to make one plate do for two or three guests. Some genius discovered that an undercrust of bread might serve for a plate, and for a long period in France the under-crust of the “tourte” or “tarte” was the most common of dinner plates, at which period a family were wont, after eating their dinner, to eat their dinner plates. These dinner plates, made of dinner rolls, were in course of time specially prepared, were made more cake-like, were filled with dainty food, and were called, according to their size, Tarts or Tartlets.” In England the cook seems to consider that a Tart should consist essentially of something sweet, whereas the con- tents may be sweet or savoury without being antagonistic to the meaning of a Tart. Tarts and Tartlets are made in flat dishes, resembling tin dishes themselves, being in reality paste dishes to be Fig. 759. Tartlet-pans. eaten with the contents. Any flat dish will do for a Tart, but the diminutive Tartlets require special pans (see Fig. 759); these answer also for patties, which are merely covered Tarts. A great variety of Tarts and Tartlets will be found under special headings, such as Anchovies, Apples, Apricots, &c. The following receipts have certain peculiarities, that can only be described under this heading: French Tart (Tourte aux Fruits).—Mix together Jib. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and J saltspoonful of salt, then sift them all through a fine wire sieve. Beat Jib. of fresh butter to free it from water, then work it into the flour, rubbing it till quite smooth Avitli the fingers. Beat the yolks of two eggs and mix them in with the flour, adding a small quantity of water to make a smooth stiff paste. Dredge flour over the table or paste board, and roll the paste out on it, making it about Jin. in thickness. Butter a Tart tin, line it with the paste, trimming it off evenly round the edge, fill it with flour, and bake it. With the trimmings of paste shape some flowers and leaves, which lay on a buttered baking-sheet, and serve them separately. When cooked, shake the flour out of the crust, turn the crust out of the tin on to a dish, fill it with any kind of fruit compote, ornament it with the pastry flowers and leaves, and serve. German Iced Tart.—Put Jib. of sifted, crushed loaf sugar slightly flavoured with orange into a basin, and work in with a spoon seven eggs, beating one well in before another is added. When the mixture is frothy, put the basin on the stove or side of the fire, and whisk well for about twelve minutes. Add lib. of potato flour, the well- whipped whites of six eggs, and lastly Jib. of warm clarified butter. Roll the paste into round flats about Jin. in thickness, and bake them on a baking sheet in a moderate oven. Take them out when done, and let them cool. There should be three or four of these rounds. Cover Tarts and Tartlets—continued. the upper surface of these with apricot or other marma- lade, put one over the other, mask the sides after trimming them with more marmalade, cover the whole over with rum or maraschino flavoured icing, and let it set. Decorate the Tart with coloured jelly and small, preserved fruits, and serve. Marlborough Tart.—Prepare about lib. of good puff paste. Butter a shallow Tart dish, line it with the paste, and bake it until half cooked in a brisk oven. Beat three eggs well with 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of sugar, and mix with them 4oz. or 5oz. of thinly-shred mixed candied peel. Pour this mixture into the paste, and finish baking it. When cooked, take the Tart out of the oven, and serve it when cold. Portuguese Tart.—Have ready one dozen or so golden pippins, pared, cored, and cut into quarters, put them at the bottom of a Tart dish lined with rich puff paste, and cover them over with a layer of apricot or other jam. In the meantime, put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of sugar, four bitter almonds, blanched and cut up small, and a little ground cinnamon, and boil for a few minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, let the mixture cool, stir in the well beaten yolks of one dozen eggs, pour the whole over the jam, put the Tart in a moderate oven, and hake for about half-an-hour. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Royal Berlin Tart.—Pour boiling water over Jib. of sweet almonds, slip them out of their skins, put them into a mortar, and pound them with six beaten eggs and Jib. of powdered white sugar, beating them to a fine paste; add and beat in the grated rind of two lemons and lib. of fresh butter. Turn about lib. of sifted flour on to a paste- board, put the almond paste into it, and knead them well together, working the flour well in. Divide the paste into pieces, and roll them out to Jin. in thickness; from these pieces cut about twelve or fifteen circular pieces, the largest about 7in. in diameter, the next one about Jin. smaller, the next about Jin. smaller than the last, and so on, each piece being about Jin. smaller in diameter than the previous one. When all the pieces are cut, lay them on pieces of white paper, put them on tin baking-sheets, and bake them a nice brown in a moderate oven. Take them out of the oven and put them away till they are cold. Lay the largest flat on a dish or plate large enough lo hold it, spread over this piece of paste some preserved fruit, lay over this the second size piece of paste, and spread over it more preserved fruit, and continue laying the pieces of paste in proper order, one over the other, with a layer of preserved fruit between, so that the Tart is in the shape of a cone, the smallest piece of paste forming the top. When the Tart is built up, ornament it with candied orange and lemon peel cut in the shape of leaves, and arranged in garlands round Fig. 760. Royal Berlin Tart. the Tart, with some small preserved fruit introduced here and there among the leaves (see Fig. 760). When quite finished, put it in the oven for a minute or two to dry, and then serve. Sand Tart.—(1) Slightly warm Jib. of fresh butter, and beat it for twenty minutes or more with Jib. of moist sugar. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, and beat the yolks up v eil with the butter, adding them one at a time; then mix in Jib. of finely-powdered starch- flour and a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow and stir them