TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 624 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—co ntinu ed. paper as there are fish, put a slice of salt pork on either end of each piece, lay a Trout on top, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, fold the paper, and tie it securely with string. Cook in a baking-dish in a rather slow oven for about twenty minutes, and serve them in their envelopes, after removing the strings, with any sauce desired in a sauceboat. Trout au Remoulade.—Select medium-sized Trout, and fry them in butter; when cooked, place them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen paper to drain off as much of the fat as possible. Chop in moderate quantities some chives, capers, chervil, parsley, cress, and a small quantity of shallots; then pound them in a mortar, and mix with them 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and 1 teacupful of salad-oil. The oil must be mixed in drop by drop, so that it may incorporate thoroughly with the other ingredients. When the sauce is perfectly smooth, mix in a small quantity of chilli vinegar. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, put the Trout on it, garnish round with parsley, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Trout a la Venisienne.—Scale and clean a large Trout, wash it well and dry it, score it across the back, and insert in the openings butter highly seasoned with minced basil, chives, lemon thyme, and parsley. Put the Trout in a dish, pour over salad-oil to cover it, and let it remain for half-an-hour; then take it out, sprinkle over sifted breadcrumbs mixed up with a little chopped herbs, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it for about fifteen minutes, by which time it should be done. Put it on a dish, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat. Trout in Fish. Jelly.—-Clean the Trout and fix them with their tails in their mouths. Put in a fish-kettle with some water a bay-leaf, a peeled and sliced onion, a moderate quantity of spices, salt and pepper, and a dash of vinegar. Boil the water for some minutes, then move it away from the fire. When the liquor is cool, put in the fish, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer until the fish are tender. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, and baste them occasionally with clear fish jelly until they are nicely coated. When fish and jelly are quite cold, trim them neatly, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with small croutons of jelly and bunches of nicely-picked fresh parsley, anil serve. Trout Pie.—Select the required number of middling-sized Trout to fill the pie-dish about to be used, clean and scale them, and draw them by the gills. Well wash and clean a few small ones, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them. Take them out, cut off all the flesh, chop it up with small quantities each of chopped truffles, mush- rooms, chives, breadcrumbs-, morels, and salt and pepper; mix in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and work the whole into a paste with well-beaten yolk of egg. Fill the Trout with this forcemeat, arrange them in the pie-dish, put a few lumps of butter over them, cover the dish over with a crust, make a small hole in the centre, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a little longer than an hour, or until the pie is done. Take it out, pour in some hot, rich gravy, and serve either hot or cold. Trout Salad.—(1) Put a middling-sized lake Trout in a fish- kettle with one or two bay-leaves and a few cloves and peppercorns, and cover it with water, adding a small lump of salt. Boil the fish till tender, then drain it, trim off all the skin, remove the bones, and flake the flesh with two forks. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover it with a plain salad dressing, and let it stand from an-hour-and- a-lialf to two hours. Put some crisp lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, drain the fish, add it to the lettuce, pour over it a mayonnaise dressing, garnish it with fillets of anchovies and sliced hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (2) Procure some selected Trout, each weighing fib., clean them, put them into a saucepan with a piece of lemon-]ieel, \ table-spoonful of crushed peppercorns, arid a small lump of salt; cover them with water and red wine, mixed in equal quantities, and boil them till tender. Trout—continued. When done, leave the Trout till cold in the cooking liquor; then drain them, taking care not to break them, and split each one down the back, and remove the backbone, but leave the heads on. Wash some large lettuces, drain them well, tear the leaves to pieces, and put them in a salad- bowl ; pour over them a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, and toss them lightly about. Take as many dishes as there are fish, arrange on each a bed of the lettuce salad, and lay the Trout on the top. Pour over the fish a mayonnaise dressing, garnish them with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. TRUBU.—A kind of lierring fClupea toli) caught in the East Indian seas for the sake of its roe, which is esteemed a great delicacy when salted and preserved in jars. TRUFFLES (Fr. Truffes; Get-. Truffeln; Ital. Tar- tufi).—Kettner, in his “Book of the Table,” says: “It is time that the truth should be spoken about Truffles. The French praise them in high-flown terms, which are not in the least extravagant. The English, praising them in the self-same terms, are very extravagant indeed. When Truffles are to be had fresh (and they are in perfection with the turkeys at Christmas-tide) it seems too much to believe that they have come out of the earth, and have been detected in their hiding-places by the snouts of pigs. They are beyond praise in the perfection of their perfume. But once unearthed the perfume soon fades, and by the time they reach London it becomes so faint that if the Truffles are not quickly disposed of they are scarcely to be recognised as the sublime of human food.” Continuing, he further observes, that “ common-sense tells us that a fresh mushroom, gathered in English fields and woods, and well cooked, is worth more than all but a sprinkling of the Truffles which cross the channel; but, all the same, fashion is omnipotent, and a cook who should abstain from cramming his sauces with essence of Truffles, and from adorning his meats with slices of them, would be regarded as ignorant of his business, and fit only for the lowest of low life.” Let it be observed that much as the Truffle is vaunted, the civilised world has contrived to do without it until very recently. It was, indeed, known to the Romans; but, says Brillat-Savarin, “ from the Romans to our own day there is a long interregnum, and the resurrection of the Truffle is recent enough. One may even say that the generation which is now passing away has been witness of it.” In addition to the foregoing, Brillat-Savarin adds: “ The Truffle beautifies everything it touches. Without mentioning the very delicate meats to which it lends a new charm, the very simplest substances, the most common, impregnated with its aroma, may appear successfully on the highest class tables.” Fig. 837. French Truffle. “ The Truffles of commerce all belong to the genus Tuber,” says Lindley, “ of which several species are edible ; the English Truffles belonging principally to T. sestivmn, and the best French Truffles to T. mclanosporum (see Fig. 837). These are black and warty externally, with the