TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 557 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dbe., referred to, see under their special heads Table Customs—continued. the very interesting subject of Table Customs as practised in all ages, of which some mention is clue to the Encyclo- paedia. Some of this might have been reserved for another heading (Table Service), but it is advisable to deal only with modern matters under headings that convey a strictly practical intention. History reveals to us some amusing stories of the Table Customs that have prevailed during one age or another. Many of these were simply barbaric, indicative of a low order of morality and ignorance. Others, on the contrary, have been preserved through many generations to be observed in the present period, and held sacred. Drinking healths (see Toasts) is one of these customs that hails from the Dark Ages ; undergoing almost impercep- tible modifications in manner, but remaining the same in substance and fact. The Loving Cup, in which guests pledge each other, is an example, and so also the High and Low Tables, originally described as above and below the salt. Forming processions, headed by the host and his most honoured lady guest, is of ancient origin, and probably descended from a Roman custom of each noble guest selecting for himself the damsel he desired to dally with as she filled his cup with wine. Whole volumes might be filled with interesting details of a similar character, but the practical intention of this Encyclo- paedia recalls attention to matters more modern, impelling us to confine further remarks to what may be called the “ Art of Eating at Table.” That fingers were made before forks is a well-known maxim, for forks were not introduced to Table until the seventeenth century. Prior to that plates were at a discount, so that one plate had to serve two persons; which led to the drawing up of a code of etiquette, containing amongst its precepts directions not to dip more than two or three fingers in the plate, and not to select the best portions for your own delectation. The mouth was to be continually wiped on the table-cloth, and the fingers also, and a special warning is given against picking your teeth with the fingers used for feeding. Napkins and finger-bowls must have been a great boon, if they were not invented too late. Erasmus of Rotterdam wrote, in 1530, a treatise in Latin, on Table manners, for the young Prince Henry of Burgundy. From its wise teachings we select the following: “ Do not pick your teeth with the point of your knife (forks not yet invented), nor with jour finger-nails, as dogs and cats do, nor with your napkin ; make use of a splinter of lentiscus wood, or a quill, or of those small bones which are found :n the legs of fowls.” Concerning the frame of mind for eating, Erasmus says : “ Gaiety is oecoming at Table, but not effrontery ”; and there is an old saying that a meal chatted over is half digested. Royal and noble personages believed some time back in a good temper whilst eating, and provided jesters for the amusement of themselves and guests. “ Do not sit down without having washed your hands and cleaned your nails ” sounds like good advice. “ When you wipe your hands drive away all morose thoughts ” is wisdom itself, for “ at meals you ought not to seem sad yourself nor to sadden others.” This urbane writer advises children not to put their elbows on the Table, nor to wriggle about; and that “ To lick your greasy fingers, or to wipe them on your clothes, is equally bad manners ; it is better to make use of the table-cloth or of your napkin.” This shows us that table- napkins were used in the early part of the sixteenth century. “ Do not gnaw bones with your teeth, like a dog; pick them clean with the aid of a knife (no fork).” It is unnecessary to comment upon the foregoing, excepting to remark that they were considered very excel- lent rules in those days, and might be applied to present Table Customs—continued. use with certain modifications, without detracting from the customs that prevail in many families and nations. Urbain-Dubois, the renowned chef, whose knowledge of Table manners and customs must have been very extended, observes in his book on “ Cosmopolitan Cookery ” that: “ No doubt it would require a long study to write on the art of eating as exercised by the variety of civilised nations. The investigations requisite for that purpose, if judiciously conducted and co-ordinated, might be not uninteresting even for the learned.” Further he says: “ Without entering on critical appreciations, I cannot abstain from stating that the art of eating at Table, according to the principles admitted in well-bred circles, is much less advanced than it ought to be, in the actual condition of national intercourse. All who have travelled over Europe, and have been present at dinners, whether great or little, all those who have seen many persons at Table, know perfectly well that this assertion is by no means exaggerated. Would it, then, be displaying too much presumption to endeavour, on the one hand, to set aside superannuated customs, which, at bottom, are defective, and, on the other hand, to pro- pagate the method more in harmony with good taste and the best traditions of gastronomy.” Society, as it is called, has its etiquette and Table observances; these may be convenient or inconvenient. In either case they are founded for the most part on appearances and good taste. Dubois speaks very highly of English customs at Table. He says that “ the English method (of Table conduct), if not the most disseminated, is, at least, the one most observed and practised in the higher circles of society, the English enjoying, in this respect, a European reputation; they both eat at their ease themselves, and do not inconvenience their neigh- bours at Table; these are two points which, in my opinion,.. give to their method an incontestable supe- riority.” Praise from such a source is praise indeed, and this he emphasises by observing “ what appears difficult, incon- venient, and impossible, is ” not to follow the English rules, but “not to eat” according to them. “ In order to eat at one’s ease, and without automatic stiffness,” says Dubois, “ one must first be seated commo- cliously and perpendicularly, neither too high nor too low; the chest upright, at an equal distance from the back of the chair and from the Table. On the left of the plate there should be a solid fork, rather heavy than light; on the right the spoon and knife, the latter having a broad blade rounded at the extremity.” One of the peculiarities of Continental Table service is the paucity of tools supplied to the diner. The same knife and fork is expected to go through several courses, and is changed only for sweets after being used for savouries. “ When the hands are not occupied with carving (that is cutting) or conveying the food to the mouth, they may be reposing on the edge of the table, but only as far as the wrist. “ When about to eat (with the exception of soup, which is always absorbed by holding the spoon with the right hand), or to cut the food that is on the plate, the fork ought to be used with the left hand, the points or prongs turned downwards, and pressed on with the extended fore- finger, to maintain it in an almost horizontal, and not a perpendicular position. “ The knife is then taken with the right hand, and with the aid of its rounded blade the piece cut is covered, either with sauce or with the garnishes that are served with the meat, to raise it to the mouth, but solely with the help of the fork, and consequently with the left hand; the knife ought never, to be raised to the mouth.” At. this point Urbain-Dubois deplores the fact that English epicures declined to use a knife with fish. This