THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 473 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. Sole Salad.—(1) Pick the hones out of some cold cooked Sole, chop the flesh into small pieces, put it into a basin with some slices of onion and a few sprigs of thyme, basil, and chervil, cover them with tarragon vinegar, and leave them to steep for two hours. When ready to serve, drain the vinegar off the Soles, and mix with them some chopped lettuce and watercress. Prepare a dressing by beating together the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, 2 table-spoon fuls of the vinegar that was strained off the Soles, J teacupful of salad-oil, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, seasoning with pepper and salt. When well mixed, pour the dressing over the salad, and serve it. (2) Skin and clean two pairs of Soles, make a slight incision on one side, and put them into a stewpan with water and white wine mixed in equal quantities and a lump of salt. Boil the Soles gently till cooked, then leave them in the liquor till cold. Cut the flesh into pieces of equal size, put them on a dish,* dust a little pepper and salt over them, and cover with oil and vinegar. Prepare a salad of chopped vegetables, season it, and thicken it with a mayonnaise that has been prepared with aspic. Fill a paper cornet with the salad mixture, stand it up- right in the cylinder of a mould, and set it on ice till firm. Fix a pain-vert on a round dish, dip the cornet containing the salad into hot water, and turn the contents on to the pain-vert; cut off the point of the pyramid, coat it with a layer of mayonnaise prepared with aspic, then lean the fillets of Sole against it, making them slightly overlap each other, and brash them over with half- set aspic. Hollow out a small artichoke-bottom, and fill it with some chopped vegetables that have been glazed with aspic. Fix the artichoke-bottom on the top of the pyramid, garnish round the bottom with halves of egg filled with the same kind of vegetables, also glazed. Serve the salad with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Sole Sandwich.—Skin and take the fillets of the Soles off the bones, put them in a baking-dish with a little butter, dust some pepper and salt over them, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked but not overdone, drain the fillets and cut them into thin slices. Cut some thin slices of French bread, butter them, lay the fillets on them, and cover with more thin slices of bread-and-butter. Arrange the sandwiches on a folded napkin or dish-paper placed on a dish, and serve them. Stewed Fillets of Soles with White Sauce.—(1) Separate the fillets from the bones of a pair of fine Soles. Divide them and tie them into knots, put them in a stewpan with half a blade of mace, a small onion, a few peppercorns and salt to taste, pour in sufficient milk to cover them, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the fillets on a hot dish. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then strain in gradually the milk in which the fillets were boiled. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened, then pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) Skin a large pair of Soles, cut the flesh off in long fillets, and boil them for a few minutes in salted water, taking care to keep them quite straight. Make f pint of white sauce, put into it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls eacli of capers and picked shrimps, ten or twelve oysters, and the fillets of the Soles, and stew them for five minutes in the sauce. Serve them with the sauce poured over them. Stewed Soles.—(1) Put three onions cut into slices in a stewpan with a piece of butter, dust in a little pepper and salt, and fry them for a few minutes; then cover them with a little water, and stew them gently till nearly cooked; lastly put in the Soles, cleaned and cut into pieces, and boil them gently till done. Put the Soles and onions on a dish. Stir in with the cooking-liquor the beaten yolks of three eggs and the juice of one lemon, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Pour the sauce over the fish and onions, sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley on the top, and serve when cold. (2) Put a pair of Soles into a stewpan with fifteen allspice, fifteen black peppercorns, four cloves, and a Soles—continued. good-sized onion; pour over them sufficient boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and let them boil very gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish. When the fish are sufficiently cooked, pour off the liquor into another saucepan, leaving the fish in the stewpan to keep hot while the sauce is made. Add to the fish liquor as much flour and butter rubbed together as will make it as thick as double cream, and to 1 pint of this sauce add 2 table-spoonfuls of wine, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne, and let it boil three or four minutes. Lay the Soles in a deep dish, strain the sauce over them, and garnish with sippets of fried or toasted bread. (3) Jewish Style.—Peel and slice three moderate-sized onions, put them in a flat stewpan with a small lump of butter and sufficient water to cover them, season with salt and pepper, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. Cut a pair of Soles into nice-shaped pieces, lay them on the top of the onions, and let them simmer gently until cooked. Strain the liquor off the Soles and onions, and when it has cooled mix with it the strained juice of a large lemon and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pour the sauce over the Soles and onions, and let it get slowly hot again, but on no account must it boil. Arrange the fish and onions on a dish, strew minced parsley on the top of them, ami pour the sauce round. Stand the dish in a cool place until the contents are cold, when they may be served. Stewed Soles with Oyster Sauce.—Scrape a pair of thick Soles, leaving the skins on, and steep them for an hour or two in a little vinegar, with a dust of pepper and salt over them. Put the Soles in a fish-kettle with the vinegar and 1 pint of boiling fish stock, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour over them some oyster sauce, and serve. Stewed Soles with Wine Sauce.—Skin and cut the Soles into pieces, and lay them side by side in a fish-kettle; add 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions, three heads of garlic, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and a laurel-leaf ; cover them with white wine and season with salt and coarsely-ground black pepper. Let the fish simmer by the side of the fire till cooked; then take them out, and put them in a stewpan. Mix 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, then mix with it the cook- ing liquor of the fish, and stir it over the fire for twenty minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour it over the fish in the stewpan, sift in some finely-chopped parsley, and stew them for a few minutes. Put the fish on a Hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. Timbales of Soles.—Skin some cold cooked Soles, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with Jib. of fresh butter, a little finely-chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of caviare, and \ teaspoonful of elder vinegar. Stir the above ingre- dients over the fire till hot, but they must not boil, then add the pieces of fish, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready some timbales of forcemeat that have been made in cup moulds, fill them with the mixture, set them on a dish covered with an ornamental paper, garnish round with parsley (see Fig. 612), and serve while very hot. Vol -au-Vent of Soles.—Peel off the skin and cut the flesh off some cold cooked Soles into small round pieces. Put 1 teacupful of cream sauce into a saucepan with Jib. of butter, and stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil; season the sauce with salt and pepper, and put