THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 434 Shad s—con tinned. boil the fish till cooked. The above makes a nice relish for breakfast or lunch. Roasted Shad.—Scale and clean a Shad and stuff it with forcemeat. Mask the fish with warmed butter, dust over some pepper and salt, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When cooked, put the Shad on a hot dish, and serve it with drawn butter and parsley. Shad a la Prau9aise.—Select six Shads with soft roes, scale and clean them without damaging the roes, but remove all the blood vessels. Put the roes, together with six pickled carps’ roes, into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak. Wash the Shads thoroughly, dry them on a cloth, and with a sharp knife make several incisions along the sides or down the backs; put them into a fish marinade, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of sweet-oil, and let them remain in it for two hours, rubbing frequently. Take them out, drain, stuff them with fish forcemeat mixed up with 1 table-spoonful of Soubise sauce, tie them up to prevent the forcemeat coming out, put them on an oiled gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. Take the fish off when done, put them on a dish, mask them with French sauce seasoned with mushrooms, crayfish tails, and oysters, and serve the roes, which can be cooked in any desired way, as a garnish. Fish sauce should always be served separately in a sauceboat. Shad Pudding.—Take about Jib. of cold boiled Shad, mince it finely, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Take the boiled roe, see that it is quite dry, and work into it loz. of butter, and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Cut the whites of the hard-boiled eggs into lings. Mash some boiled floury potatoes, and have ready J pint of butter sauce, with a beaten egg mixed with it, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Butter a baking-dish, put a layer of mashed potatoes at the bottom, and over this alternate layers of fish, butter sauce (in this lay rings of white of egg), and roe; on top of all put another layer of mashed potato. Cover the dish, and put it into a moderately hot oven ; when it bubbles and steams, take the cover off, shut the oven door, and let it brown. Serve it in the dish it was baked in, with pickles. Shad Salad.—Remove the backbone from half a Shad, put the fish in a deep dish, moisten with plenty of lemon- juice, and let it stand all night. The object of soaking the fish in lemon-juice is that it softens the small bones so that they can be removed easier, otherwise they are very troublesome. Drain, broil the Shad over a clear fire, then tear it into pieces with two forks, and put it into a salad-bowl with plenty of crisp lettuce-leaves. Pour a remoulade dressing over the salad, and serve. Another way of preparing the fish is to soak it in lime-juice for twelve hours, then tearing it into pieces, and mixing it in a salad-bowl with some finely-shredded cabbage-palm ; dilute it with a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve it. The fish will require ■no other cooking, the action of the lime-juice being sufficient. Stewed Shad with Sorrel.—Select a small fine Shad, pare and scale it, and let it steep as long as possible in a marinade composed of 1 table-spoonful of oil, half a sliced lemon, a quarter of a bunch of parsley, and half a sliced onion. When ready, place it in a buttered stewpan with £ wineglassful of white wine, 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, also a bunch of sweet herbs. Take two handfuls of picked and washed sorrel, mince it very fine, put it in the stewpan with the fish, adding a good pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper; cover the pan, cook over a slow fire for at least two hours, arrange the Shad on a dish, and keep it hot. Add 1 table-spoonful of white roux to the liquor, remove the bunch of herbs, thicken well, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve with some more of any desired sauce in a sauceboat. Shad’s Roes.—As Shad are usually caught on their journey up rivers to spawn, they are mostly full of roe. When prepared as follows the roes are considered a delicacy: Shads—co n tinned. Broiled Shad’s Roe.—Well wash a Shad’s Roe in cold water, wipe it quite dry on a clean towel, put it between the bars of a double wire gridiron thickly buttered, and broil brown on both sides. When cooked, serve it with butter, lemon-juice, and parsley, or with plain butter, pepper, and salt. A garnish of sliced cucumbers (see Fig. 552), or tomatoes, or a little watercress, may be served with the broiled roe. A dish of mashed potatoes should be sent to table with it. Broiled Shad’s Roe with Bacon.—Well wash six pieces of fresh Shad’s Roe, wipe them thoroughly with a towel, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 good pinch of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil. Roll them gently to avoid breaking, arrange them on a broiler, and broil for six minutes on each side. Take them off the fire, lay them on a hot dish, and pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’iiotel butter; garnish with six slices of broiled bacon and six quarters of lemon, and serve. Tried Shad’s Roe.—(1) Steep the roe in cold water; care should be taken in removing it from the fish, not to break it. Wipe the roe dry, put it in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry it till nicely browned. When cooked, put the roe on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Wash "the roes and dry them well with a soft cloth. If they are very large, cut them in two. Have 1 pint of boiling water on the fire, with a little salt and pepper in it and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, put the roes into this, and let them boil for ten minutes; take them out, put them immediately into very cold water, in which a little salt has been dissolved, let them remain in this about two minutes, and then wipe them dry again. Brush them all over with beaten egg and roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in boiling lard. Serve them hot, together with \ pint of butter sauce, with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, a little chopped parsley, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce mixed in it and boiled up once. This sauce should be served in a sauce-tureen. Shad’s-Roe Croquettes.—(1) Boil the roe for a-quarter-of- an-hour in salted water, then drain and mash it. Boil 1 pint of cream; mix 4 table-spoonfuls of cornflour with Jib. of butter and stir it into the boiling cream; add the strained juice of two lemons, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and grated nutmeg, and the roe. Boil all together, then take the saucepan off the fire and leave the contents till cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, repeating the operation twice. Put the croquettes into a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and brown them quickly. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Put six medium-sized Shad’s Roes into a saucepan of boil- ing water and boil them for twenty minutes. Drain and separate them with a wooden spoon, put them in a basin, and season with salt, pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and three peeled and boiled potatoes through a fine wire sieve and mix them with the Shad’s Roes; finely chop the whites of the eggs, add them, also the juice of half a lemon. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, stir them over the fire till well blended, then pour in gradually 1 h teacupfuls of cold water, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. Pour the sauce in with the ingredients in the basin, and stir them For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.