THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 570 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. sugar to taste, and a little grated nutmeg or other flavouring. Turn the pudding into a dish, put it into a slow oven, and bake for about three-quarters of-an-hour. Take it out, and serve. (12) Iced.—Soak 1 heaped table-spoonful of Tapioca in cold water until dissolved. Put 1 pint of milk in a stew- pan with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and boil it for a few minutes. Strain the milk while boiling over the Tapioca, and when properly mixed, turn the whole into the stewpan and stir it over the fire until thickened. Move the Tapioca to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, sweetening to taste. When somewhat cooled, pile the Tapioca on a glass dish, and stand it on ice until quite cold. Ice the top of the pudding over with a white sugar icing (see Fig. 756), and serve. (13) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca in a basin with l breakfast-cupful of milk, and let it soak for two hours in a warm place. Pour 2 more breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, and boil for a few minutes; then add the Tapioca and milk, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Stir in ltoz. of butter and two eggs, remove the saucepan from the fire, and let it cool; add a little lemon or vanilla flavouring, turn it all into a freezer, work it well, add 1 teacupful of cream whipped to a stiff froth, put the whole into a mould packed in ice, and turn it out on to a dish when it is firm. (14) Savoury.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock and 2oz. of Tapioca into a dish, and set it in a slow oven for an hour to let the Tapioca swell. Stir in a couple of boiled onions nibbed through a fine sieve, pom; in 1 break- fast-cupful of gravy or rich soup, and bake gently for an hour longer. Take out the pudding when done, garnish the dish with pieces of fried bread or toast, and serve. Tapioca Rock.—Boil 4oz. of Tapioca in a lined saucepan with 1 pint of water until well cooked; boil lib. of sugar to the crack degree, and split 6oz. of pistachio-kernels length- wise into thin fillets. Mix these ingredients with the Tapioca when it is sufficiently cooked, also 7 table-spoon ful of vanilla sugar, and sufficient cochineal to give it a nice colour. Mix the whole thoroughly. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold and firm, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish. Whip 7 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, flick it over the Tapioca to give it the appearance of snow, and serve. Tapioca Snow.—Put 3 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a saucepan, with ^oz. of butter and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil quickly until the liquor is quite clear; then add the well-whipped yolks of two eggs, pour it into a dish, flavour with a little grated nutmeg, and cover over with the whites of the two eggs, beaten to a stiff' froth with a pinch of salt and mixed up with 3oz. of finely- sifted crushed loaf sugar. Serve either hot or cold. Tapioca Souffle.—(1) Put 1 tablespoonful of Tapioca into a basin with water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Strain off the water, put the Tapioca into a saucepan, sweeten to taste, and add sufficient milk to give the Tapioca the consistency of porridge when done. Remove Tapioca—continued. the saucepan from the fire when the Tapioca is cooked, and let the mixture get cold; then mix in a little flavour- ing of grated lemon rind, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of five whipped to a stiff' froth. Turn the prepara- tion at once into a souffle mould, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until the souffle has well risen and is quite done. Take it out, and serve at once in the mould with a napkin pinned round it. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of cream and milk into a saucepan, sweeten with sugar, and stir in a little salt. Boil for a few minutes, add a little flavouring of vanilla, lemon, or any other desired, stir in 4oz. of Tapioca, and boil very slowly until the latter is done. Add a small lump of butter and the beaten yolks of six eggs, let them cook, remove the pan from the fire, beat in' the whites of six eggs whipped to a froth, pour the whole into a souffle-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out when done, and serve. Or the preparation may be mixed with some currants or dried cherries, turned into a well- buttered mould, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and then baked. The latter would require to be turned out of the mould before being served. Tapioca Soup.—(1) Cut up about 31b. of shin of beef, put it into a stewpan with a large piece of salt and 3qts. of water, and place it over the fire; when boiling, skim the liquor, move it to the side, and put in a couple of carrots, the same of onions, and one turnip, all peeled and cut up; also two or three pieces of celery, one dozen peppercorns, and four or five cloves. Boil the whole gently for four hours, keeping it well skimmed; then strain it through a broth napkin into a basin, and leave it until cool. Cut 71 b. of lean uncooked beef, with any cold remains of fowl or veal, into small pieces, put them in a mortar with a chopped carrot, onion, and a piece of celery, and pound them all together. Work in one beaten egg. Skim the fat off' the liquor, pour it into a clean saucepan, add the pounded mixture, and boil it for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor again through a broth-napkin, return it to the saucepan with § teacupful of Tapioca, and boil it gently between twenty minutes and half an-hour, stirring con- stantly. When the Tapioca is cooked, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve without delay. (2) Feel and chop two onions finely, and fry them in butter until lightly browned; then season them with salt and pepper, anil pour lqt. of water over them. When the water boils strain it, pour it into a clean saucepan, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca, and boil it gently at the edge of the fire until almost dissolved. Serve when ready. Tapioca Soup with Tomatoes.—Put 6oz. of Tapioca into a saucepan, pour over igall. of rich strained broth, boil for a minute-or two, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently. Take out the seeds from four or five large tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with a small onion, a little sprig of parsley and a bay-leaf tied up with it, a few peppercorns, and salt to taste. Put the sauce- pan on the fire, reduce the moisture of the tomatoes, rub the whole through a fine sieve into the soup, and serve when the Tapioca is thoroughly done and dissolved. Tapioca and Tomatoes.—Soak about h teacupful of Tapioca in water for a few hours; put it into a saucepan with more water if necessary, and boil it until thick; then mix a small lump of fresh butter with it, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut four tomatoes in halves, scoop out the seeds and watery substance, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Fill the hollows of the tomatoes with the Tapioca, levelling them smoothly over the top, strew a layer of grated Parmesan cheese and grated breadcrumb over them, lay them side by side in a baking- dish, and bake them for about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, arrange the tomatoes on a hot dish, garnish them with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. TAR.—A liquid bitumen prepared from the wood of Pinus sylvestris, and other species of pine. Also as a bye- product of gas-making from coal. Sometimes used