474 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. the pieces of Soles in. Turn the mixture into a volau- vent of paste, and serve while hot. Water Souchet of Soles.—(1) Separate the lillets from the hones of several small Soles, and divide each fillet into halves. Put the bones and trimmings of the Soles in a stewpan with a few shred parsley-roots, some chopped parsley-leaves, a blade of mace, about a dozen pepper- corns, cold water to cover, and salt to taste. When the water boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for two hours or two-hours-and-a-half. Put the fillets of Sole in a stewpan, strain the above liquor over them, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley-leaves and a few thinly shred roots of parsley, and boil them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Place the fish on a hot dish with the liquor over it, garnish with cut lemon, and serve. (2) Clean and wash the Soles well, peeling off the black skin and scaling the white side. Put some thinly-shred roots of parsley into a saucepan with a bunch of green onions and parsley, a lump of salt, and some water, and boil them gently for an hour; then put the Soles in, and let them simmer till cooked. Pick some leaves of paisley, and blanch them in salted water. When cooked, drain the Soles, put them in a deep hot dish, strain over them a little of their cooking-liquor, sprinkle the paisley-leaves and root over them, ami serve with a plateful of rye bread-and -butter. SOLFERINO.—A brilliant deep pink colour with a purplish tinge, so-called from Solferino in Italy, where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery. A mixture of it prepared as follows is sometimes used for colouring confectionery: Mix ioz. of Solferino in lqt. of over-proof plain spirit, and let it remain for a day, giving the jar a shake every now and then. Strain through filtering-paper before bottling. SOLFERINO SOUP.—See Soups. SOMERSET SYLLABUBS.—See Syllabubs. SOF.—Anything dipped in liquid food and intended to be eaten. SOPSAVINE.—A corruption of “ sops of wine,” an old-fashioned name given to an apple of a yellow and red colour, shading to deep red, as though dipped in dark red wine. SORBET.—Fr. for sherbet. A name given to a variety of drinks, of which the following are samples, several others being described under the headings of special fruits: American Sorbet.—Procure some tin moulds to imitate high-shaped wineglasses, fill them with pure water, close them securely, and pack them in pounded ice. Meanwhile mix in equal quantities some fruit syrup, wine, and orange- or lemon-juice; almost any kind of fruit syrup can be used. Pour the mixture into a freezing-pot, and work it well until frozen. The Sorbet or syrup mixture must not be frozen too firm, yet it must be consistent enough to be piled up in a pyramid in the ice glasses. When the water has frozen sufficiently to take the form of the moulds, turn it out carefully, drain off any liquid that has not frozen, and fill up the ice glasses with the frozen syrup, piling it up high. Stand the glasses on a fancy dish, and hand them round. If liked, the water may be coloured before being frozen in the moulds, and a different colour can be used in almost every mould; this will have a very pretty effect when served. Sorbets with Champagne.—Mix pint of. champagne with 1 pint of syrup, and add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, also the thinly-peeled rind of the lemon. In a-quarter-of-an-hour strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and give it 18deg. at the syrup scale (see SUGAR-BOILING). Turn the Sorbet into the freezing-pot, and work it with a spatula till set; then mix with it Sorbet—con tinned. gradually l pint more of champagne that has been mixed with a little syrup. Serve the Sorbet in ice glasses. Kirschenwasser, Madeira, or malaga may be used in the place of the champagne, if preferred. Sorbet with Rum (au Rhum.)—Mix with lqt. of clrablis lqt. of syrup at 35deg., and \ pint of lemon-juice. When well mixed, strain the Sorbet through a silk sieve into a freezing-pot, pack it in pounded ice, and work it with a spatula till frozen. Mix 1 wineglassful of rum with the Sorbet, and serve it in ice glasses. SORREL {Fr. Oseille; Ger. Sauerampfer; Ital. Acetosa; Sp. Acedera).—Sorrel was at one time cultivated in our gardens for its leaves, which were used as spinach or in salads ; but the English variety is so inferior to the large succulent leaves of the French Sorrel (see Fig. 613) Fig. 613. French Sorrel. that it is no longer cultivated. On the Continent Sorrel is most extensively used, hence it is not surprising that the majority of the receipts given for its prepara- tion are foreign. Cream of Sorrel.—(1) Steam 3 good handfuls of well- washed Sorrel with loz. of butter. After cooking for ten minutes, rub through a sieve into a saucepan, add lqt. of white broth and 1 pint of bechamel sauce, season with h table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. Thicken the soup with 1 teacupful of cream and the yolks of two raw eggs well beaten together, and serve with slices of bread or toast. (2) The same as No. 1, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, and cooking for twenty minutes longer. (3) Steam 3 good handfuls of well-washed Sorrel with loz. of butter for ten minutes, and then strain it. Moisten with 3 pints of broth, add loz. more of butter, one sliced raw potato, two leeks cut in small squares, half an onion also cut, \ table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cook well for thirty minutes, and serve with slices of bread, but do not thicken the soup. Puree of Sorrel.—(1) Wash and chop 31b. or 41b. of Sorrel, put it into a saucepan with some chopped lettuce, chervil- leaves, and a little white beetroot, and stir over the fire for a few minutes to evaporate the moisture ; then add a lump of butter, the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and season with pepper and salt. Stir the puree over the fire till hot, then turn it into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick and wash the Sorrel-leaves, and blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, stirring them all the time; then drain them, and when cold put them into a saucepan with some stock and brown thickening. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Sorrel is done. Skim off all the fat, and pass the Sorrel through a fine hair sieve. The puree is then ready for serving. Puree of Sorrel -with Hard-boiled Eggs.—Wash the Sorrel well and boil it, changing the water twice during