THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 609 Tomatoes—continued. with it loz. of butter and a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut. Toss it over the fire for a few minutes until the glaze has melted, when it will be ready for serving. Tinned-Tomato Ragofit.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot in 1 pint of Tinned Tomatoes, turn them into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until boiling and thickened. Peel and slice a large onion, fry it in butter until browned, then mix it in with the Tomatoes. Season with salt, pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Chop |lb. of corned beef with a piece of fat, and mix it with the Tomatoes. Stir the whole over the fire for ten minutes, then turn it into a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Salad.—(1) Empty a pint tin of Tomatoes and their juice into a stewpan, mix h table-spoonful of arrowroot with a little of the Tomato juice, then pour it in with the Tomatoes, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling and thickened. Mix in a basin 1 table-spoon ful each of olive oil and chilli vinegar, h table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a Fig. 810. Tinned-Tomato Salad. small quantity of pepper. Mix the Tomatoes with this, turn the whole on to a dish, and leave it until quite cold. Garnish the Tomato salad with pieces of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 810), and serve. (2) Cut some Tinned Tomatoes into slices, and peel and slice a raw onion; rub a dish over with garlic, and put the sliced vegetables in it. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of vine- gar with 1 teacupful of olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Tomatoes. Strew lightly over them some powdered sweet herbs, and serve. Tinned-Tomato Sauce.—(1) Put half a tin of Tomatoes and one small onion into a saucepan, and stew them for about ten minutes ; take out the onion, and rub the Tomato pulp through a fine sieve. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, warm it, mix in an equal quantity of flour, and stir well until it is well browned ; add gradually the Tomato pulp, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a very little white pepper; warm the sauce, and it is ready for use. This sauce is generally used for macaroni. (2) Put half a tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water; add two cloves, two peppercorns, two allspice berries, two sprigs of parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped onion, butter, and cornflour, and 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs. The onion must be fried in the butter, and the cornliour mixed in when the onion is yellow. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about ten minutes : add 1 saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and a little cayenne; strain the sauce, and it is ready for use. Tinned Tomatoes with Savoury Custard.—Mix with one pint tin of Tomatoes 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 scant table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions, and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, seasoning the mixture to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a pie-dish, and pour the mixture into it. Beat four eggs in a stewpan, pour in If pints of milk, season with salt, pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and | table-spoonful of finely-chopped onions. Stir the custard over the fire until thickened, but not boiling, then pour it over the Tomato mixture. Put two or three small lumps of butter on the top of the custard, and place it in a moderate oven. In about three-quarters-of-an- hour, or when the custard has set, take it out of the oven, and serve. This makes an excellent dish for supper, ami requires very little time and trouble to prepare. Tomatoes—continued. Tinned-Tomato Soup.—(1) Put a quart tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and stir in 1 table- spoonful of warm butter worked up with double the quantity of flour and 1 table-spoonful of the Tomatoes. Add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, boil for about a-quarter- of-an-hour, strain the soup into a tureen, and serve with buttered toast on a dish. (2) Put a tin of Tomatoes into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion stuck with three or four cloves, and 1 pinch each of allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and cook until the Tomatoes are quite soft; turn all out on to a hair sieve, and rub through until only the onion and herbs remain. Pour 3 pints of stock (either meat or poultry) into a saucepan, boil it up, stir in the Tomato pulp, and add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cold water; stir well, make it as hot as possible, pour it into a tureen, and serve with croutons of fried bread or toast. Tinned-Tomato Tart.—Mix with 2 breakfast cupfuls of tinned Tomatoes and their juice, 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- grated breadcrumb, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with short crust, rolling the paste up round the edges so as to form a sort of wall, which pinch round with the finger and thumb. Pour the Tomato mixture into a dish, and bake it for about half-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over the top, and serve. TONGS.—This word is derived from the Icelandic tong—to bite, and lias a very ancient history, so far as the application is concerned. The cook recognises it Fig. 811. Ice-tongs. in the asparagus-tongs, fire-tongs, ice-tongs (see Fig. 811), sandwich-tongs, steak-tongs (see Fig. 812), sugar- tongs, &c., all of which have a very decided utility, Fig. 812. Steak-tongs. enabling the operator to seize with a firm grip those materials which it would be inconvenient or uncleanly to grasp with the fingers. TONGUES (Fr. Langues; Ger. Zungen; Ital. Lingue; Sp. Lenguas).—Under various headings, such as Ox, Sffep, Pigs, Lamb, and Reindeer, these are specifi- Fig. 813. Tongue. cally treated; in a general sense the Tongue is the large muscular organ that forms the floor of the mouth, and is used by most animals for collecting and swallowing food. The base of the Tongue is so intimately connected with the throat that it is usual when removing it from the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <I-c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. R