492 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, *kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. stale bread, soak them for a few minutes in boiling stock, then put them in a dish ; cover thickly with grated Par- mesan cheese, and bake them in a quick oven till nicely browned. Put the bread in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Sea Soup (a la Mer).—Clean and cut about 21b. of whiting, haddock, or flounder into small pieces, and put them into a large saucepan with lqt. of white stock and an equal quantity of water, and put it on the fire to boil. When boiling, put in with the fish one washed lettuce, a few sorrel-leaves, a stick of celery, a little garlic, two tomatoes, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and a little parsley-root. Let the above ingredients simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half, then strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a clean saucepan; mix with the Soup loz. of butter that has been worked with loz. of flour, and boil it for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 teacupful of cream, mix a little of the hot Soup with it first, then mix all together, taking the saucepan off the fire when the eggs are added. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Sevigny Soup (a la Sevigne).—Prepare a rich fowl Soup. In the meantime cut up a roasted fowl, put it into a saucepan with about 1 pint of rich consomme, and boil for an hour. Skim off all the fat, pass the liquor through a cloth, let it get cold, mix in gradually the yolks of eight or nine eggs, with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, and strain again. With this mixture fill a dozen or so small buttered timbale-moulds, put them in a saute-pan with boiling water, and cook them over a slow fire, taking- care that the water does not boil, or the timbales will be full of air-bubbles and spoil. Two hours should be suffi- cient to cook them; turn them out in the tureen, pour the Soup over, and serve at once. Skink or Hoch Soup.—In Scotland this Soup, which is a favourite, is usually prepared the day before it is wanted and warmed up before serving. Break up a shin of beef into as small pieces as possible, put them into a saucepan with Ingalls, of boiling water, and boil for fully two hours. Take out the meat and remove the bones, return the bones to the liquor, boil for about four hours longer, strain the Soup, add any vegetables, cut into pieces, as may be required, warm them up with the Soup, and serve. Solferino Soup.—Put into a saucepan with some clear stock an equal quantity each of new potatoes, French and haricot beans, young carrots, and green peas; add a little chopped celery, parsley, and chives. Let the Soup simmer by the side of the fire till the vegetables are cooked, then put in 1 teacupful of tomato puree, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Put some croutons of fried or toasted bread in a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Soubise Soup (a la Soubise).—Put in a saucepan two thinly- sliced onions, four thin slices of bread, \ pint of milk, and lb pints of water. When boiling, mix with the above ingre- dients ljoz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Stew them slowly by the side of the fire till the onions will mash to a pulp. Pass the Soup through a fine hair- sieve, return it to the saucepan, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soup with Gnocchi.—Put loz. of butter and 1 pint of water in a saucepan, place it over the fire, and when the water boils stir in as much flour as will make a stiff paste ; add a small quantity of salt, and continue stirring the paste until it ceases to stick to the spoon. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and mix in gradually 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and two or three well-beaten eggs. Put the paste into a biscuit-forcer, work it through, cutting it off in pieces about lin. long, and letting it drop into some well-flavoured boiling stock that should be in readi- ness over the fire. A few minutes will suffice to cook the gnocchi. When ready turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Soups—continued. Soup for Invalids.— Take 31b. of any white meat and 31b. of lean beef cut off the leg; chop it small, or gash it well, and put it into a stone jar together with a seasoning of salt and spice, and, if liked, an onion. Cover the jar with bladder and tie it firmly on. Stand the jar in a large saucepan, set it over the fire, fill up the saucepan with water, and let it boil for twelve hours. Uncover the jar then, and strain off the Soup. Soup without Meat (Maigre).—(1) Cut four large onions into slices, put them in a saucepan with 1,11). of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Put in with the onions some celery cut into small pieces, a bunch of chopped parsley, and some finely-shred cabbage lettuces; stir the ingredients over the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of crashed dry biscuits and 2qts. of boiling milk and water mixed in equal quantities. Season the Soup to taste with pepper and salt, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for an hour. Beat two eggs well, and stir them into the Soup when taken off the fire; turn it into a soup tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Cut an onion into thin slices. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan, and when it has melted add the sliced onion; fry it a little but do not let it brown, add 2 bandfuls of sorrel cut into shreds, and 1 dessert-spoonful of flour. Mix it well, add 1 pint of water and £ pint of milk, and boil for three minutes, stirring it con- stantly, then take it from the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up with J pint of cream. Serve it quite hot, but do not let it boil after the egg and cream are added. (3) Prepare a parsnip, a carrot, a turnip, four onions, and the outer stalks of a head of celery, and cut them into slices; add to them lqt. of green peas, flour the peas and sliced vegetables, and fry them in butter. Put them into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, let it simmer till the vegetables are quite soft, then pass all through a sieve; return to the saucepan, and boil in it the rest of the head of celery cut small. (4) Melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan ; slice three medium- sized onions and add them when the butter is melted. Cover the pan, and let the onions cook for two or three minutes, shaking the pan well; then add 1 handful of washed spinach, three small heads of celery, one cabbage lettuce cut small, and a few sprigs of parsley, and shake the pan over the fire for ten minutes. Pour in lqt. of water, add a few crusts of bread, nearly 1 saltspoonful of pepper, a blade of mace, and a few white beetroot-leaves cut up small; cover the pan again, and boil the contents gently for an hour. Before serving, mix with it 1 dessert- spoonful of vinegar and the yolk of an egg. (5) Peel and cut into small pieces three potatoes, three onions, two carrots, and one turnip; put them in a sauce- pan with a lump of butter, a few pieces of celery, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and salt to taste. Toss the contents of the saucepan over a gentle fire for fifteen minutes, then pour in lqt. of cold water; add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and boil gently for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time pass the Soup through a fine hair sieve, skim off the butter at the top, season with more salt and pepper if required, and boil up again. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with it a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. (6) Peel four or five large potatoes and three onions, and cut each into four; put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of boiling water, about 3oz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil gently until the vegetables are soft, then strain the liquor and rub them through a fine sieve. Return the Soup to the saucepan with 1 pint of milk, boil it up again, then sprinkle in slowly 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of crashed tapioca, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire until dissolved. When ready, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate, of small squares of toast. (7) Cut a few thin slices of bread, put them into a stewpan, cover with water, add Jib. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, place it over a moderate