516 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fig. 675. Pour- Season Strawberry. Fig. 676. Long Alpine. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. the Bishop of Ely for Strawberries when contemplating the death of Hastings, and the circumstance has been dramatised by Shakespeare. “ My Lord of Ely, when I was last in Holborn, I saw good Strawberries in your garden there. Tbe palace and garden of the Bishop were situated in that part of London now called Ely Place, and the grounds sloping to the then open stream or rivulet of Holborn must have been well adapted for the growth of Strawberries.” Several kinds of Strawberries are mentioned by Lindley —the Green Strawberry having a small, abundant, roundish fruit, with the flesh of a greenish tinge, and something of the flavour of the pine-apple. The Hautbois is a native of England and the Continent of Europe; the fruit is large and plentiful, and possesses a musky flavour that is highly appreciated. The Virginian or Scarlet Strawberry is most commonly cultivated in this country, and abounds in variety of shape, flavour, and horticultural qualities. Pine Strawberries (see Eig. 670) are special Fig. 670. Pine Strawberry. Fig. 671. Chilian Strawberry. favourites, supposed to have been imported from Surinam, but the best variety known as Old Pine came from Cai-olina. The fruit is very solid and juicy. The Chilian Strawberry (see Fig. 671) is peculiar, because the whole plant is covered with silky hairs. It does not succeed well in this climate. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Gardening,” gives the following list of Strawberries that are chiefly cultivated, many of them attaining enormous sizes without loss of flavour: Bitton Pine, creamy-white, sometimes tinged with red where exposed to the sun, large; flesh white, juicy, of fairly good flavour; mid-season. Black Prince, dark red, shining, almost black when quite ripe, small. British Queen (see Fig. 672), light scarlet, but not always uniform in colour, frequently very large, often flattened; flesh white, very juicy and richly flavoured; a late variety. Dr. Hogg, light red, even in outline; flesh solid, and richly flavoured; mid- season or rather early. Vicomtesse Hericart de Thury, bright red, medium sized, conical; flesh pale red, solid, brisk and richly flavoured. The May Queen (see Fig. 673) is a small but excellent variety of the British Queen, and is largely grown upon the Continent, where other fine varieties such as the Veillard (see Fig. 674), Four-Season Strawberry (see Fig. 675), and especially the Long Alpine (see Fig. 676) are prime favourites. The following receipts are compiled from a variety of sources and apply to all kinds of Strawberries: Bottled Strawberries.—Remove the stalks from some freshly-gathered, ripe Strawberries,put them in wide-mouthed glass bottles, and fill them up with syrup that has been boiled to 26deg. (see Sugar-boiling) ; put the bottles, without cork- ing them, into a large saucepan, pour in cold water to half Strawberries—continued. ripens about the same tune as Elton, and is of better flavour than that variety. James Veitch, bright vermilion, very large and handsome; flesh solid, rich and juicy; mid- season variety. Keen’s Seedling, dark crimson next the sun, large, roundish; flesh scarlet, rich and agreeably flavoured. Fig. 673. May Queen. Fig 674. Veillard. La Constante, bright crimson, large, conical; flesh white, tinged red, juicy, briskly flavoured ; rather late. La Grosse Sucree, dark red, medium or large; flesh pale red; flavour slightly acid. Loxford Hall Seedling, bright crimson where exposed, large, handsome, conical; flesh red, solid, of excel- lent flavour; an invaluable variety, the latest of all. Lucas, deep scarlet or crimson, large, conical, handsome; flesh solid, highly flavoured; mid-season or rather early. Marguerite, bright red, very large, flesh juicy and tender; early. Pauline, deep red, large, with smooth neck; flesh firm, richly flavoured; very early. Pioneer, very dark red, medium- sized; flesh solid, bright red, of rich, brisk flavour; one of the earliest. President, fruit bright red, often very large and handsome; flesh light red, solid, highly flavoured. Sir Charles Napier, clear light scarlet, large and handsome; flesh pale, firm, briskly flavoured. Sir Harry, dark red or crimson, very large; flesh dark red, very juicy, of excel- lent flavour. Sir Joseph Paxton, bright crimson, large, very large; flesh pale pinkish-white, solid, very rich. Elton, dark red or crimson, large ; flesh red throughout, firm, briskly acid; a valuable late variety, specially adapted for pre serving. Frogmore Late Pine, dark red, very large; this Fig. 672. British Queen.