650 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. brown gravy, loz. of butter, 3 table spoonfuls of port wine, 1 table spoonful of lemon-juice, \ table-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and 1 teaspoonful each of chilli vinegar and made mustard, seasoning with cayenne and black pepper in small quantities. Stir this mixture over the lire until hot. When the leg is devilled, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (5) Cut off the legs from one or more Turkeys, singe them slightly over a little ignited spirit, put them into the stock-pot, and boil them for about ten minutes. Take them out and put them on a dish to cool, and when quite cold season them with a pinch of salt, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne. Pour over 2 table- spoonfuls of Parisienne sauce and sprinkle over £ teaspoon ful of ground mustard. Roll the legs well in this marinade, cover them with finely-sifted breadcrumbs, place them over a moderate fire, and broil them for six minutes on each side. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a teacupful of hot sauce a la diable, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve with any desired garnishing, and sauce in a sauceboat. Devilled Turkey’s Legs and Wings.—Joint the legs and wings, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a slow but clear fire. Mix 1 table-spoonful of mustard in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of pepper vinegar, adding 1 table spoonful each of celery sauce and acid fruit jelly, and a Fig. 897. Devilled Turkey’s Legs and Wings. little salt and pepper. When done, put the legs and wings on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, sift some finely- grated and browned breadcrumbs over the top (see Fig. 897), and serve. Pillets of Turkey d l'Ecarlate.—Cut out the fillets of a raw Turkey, trim off the skin, and beat them slightly with the blade of a knife; season them with salt, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry them, keeping them rather underdone. Leave the fillets till cold, trim them all to the same shape, season them, brush them over with chaudfroid sauce tinged with cochineal, and leave them laid side by side on a baking-dish till the sauce is cold. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, put a sheet of white paper the same size on the top, put a small wood or fat support in the centre, and surround it with a salad mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the fillets of Turkey in an upright position on the pain-vert, put an attelette with mush rooms, cocks’ combs, and truffles on the top, garnish round Turkeys—continued. the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly (see Fig. 898), and serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Fillets of Turkey a la Milanaise.—Remove the sinewy skin off two breast fillets that have been cut off a small raw Turkey, cut the meat into slices slanting lengthwise, trim them, and beat them lightly. Dip the slices in beaten egg, then in freshly-grated breadcrumbs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the fillets, and fry them quickly on both sides till nicely browned. Put a garnish of rice a la Milanaise in the centre of a hot dish; when cooked, arrange the fillets in a circle round it, pour over them the butter in which they were cooked, and serve them. Galantine of Turkey.—(1) Singe and draw a nice plump Turkey, and bone it carefully, trimming off all the ragged pieces. Cut 111), of lean veal and half that quantity of fat bacon into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them till smooth, seasoning with salt and pepper, a small quantity of mixed spices, and powdered sweet herbs to taste. Pass the mixture through a fine hah' sieve. Spread the Turkey open on a table the skin side downwards, dredge it over with salt and pepper, and spread the mixture over it. Cut a few truffles and about ^lb. of boiled tongue into pieces lin. square, and lay them over the pounded meat. Roll the Turkey up, and tie it tightly in a cloth. Put the trimmings of the bird into a large sauce- pan, with some trimmings of bacon, a calf’s foot cut into pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three peeled and sliced carrots and onions, a clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, a blade of mace, and salt to taste. Cover these ingredients with plenty of cold water, and place the pan over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time strain the liquor and return it to the saucepan; when it boils up again, put in the Turkey, and boil it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, drain, and place the galantine on a dish; when a little cooled, remove the cloth, tie the galantine up tightly in it again, put another dish over it with a weight on the top, and leave it until quite cold. When ready, take the cloth off the galantine, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in liquid glaze, and leave it until the glaze is cold. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a large oval dish, lay the galantine on it, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (2) Bone a Turkey and stuff it with forcemeat, roll it to a round shape, tie it in a cloth, and let it simmer till cooked. When cooked, press the Turkey under a weight till cold, still keeping it in the cloth. When cold, remove the cloth, wipe the bird over with a towel dipped in hot water, and place it in a mould a little larger than itself, filling the space round it with half-set aspic jelly, and leaving till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the galantine out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Prepare a large fat white-fleshed Turkey, bone it by splitting down the back, taking care not to injure the flesh and especially the skin, and place it with the skin side downwards on a slab or table. Boil the liver, mince it, mix it up with 21b. of sausage meat, three hard-boiled eggs, two dozen stoned olives, 1 table-spoonful of capers, a few slices of dried tongue, 7>lb. of fat ham, also a smoked German sausage, four peeled truffles, and a pickled gherkin, all cut into slices, and sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg and white pepper. Arrange this mixture over the Turkey, sew it up securely, and put it in a piece of calico, binding it with tape. Put a plate at the bottom of a lined saucepan, place in the Turkey, together with its bones, a calf’s foot in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, a few peppercorns, two or three cloves, a small clove of garlic, and over the whole a French roll cut in halves. Pour over two bottles of any light wine, such as chablis, and stew for five hours. Take out the Turkey, remove its covering, and wrap it up quickly in a clean one, putting it to cool under a heavy weight. Pour the liquor through a strainer, and let it cool also. On the following day, brush the Turkey with glaze, and put it on a dish. Skim off the fat from the jelly, melt it slowly, stir in the beaten whites and