THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 646 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. the stuffing prepared for it, beginning at the wings, stuffing the body next, and then the thighs. Stuff the bird as hard as possible, and if properly done it will resume its natural shape and look much as it did before tlie bones were removed. Bind it firmly into shape with tape, and bake it for about three hours. If served hot, accompany it with a gravy made of the giblets chopped up and stewed, with some wine and egg added to it; if cold, drop some teaspoonfuls of currant jelly all over it when it is dished, and in the dish round it. Baked Turkey.—(1) Binge, draw, and truss a Turkey, season the inside with salt and cayenne pepper, put it in a baking-pan with the washed liver and gizzard and suffi- cient water to make the gravy, and bake in a quick oven, basting well. When'it begins to brown, dredge it over with Hour, turning it often so that each part can be equally browned. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper. When cooked, cut the liver and gizzard up, put it in a small saucepan with a lump of butter and 1 tablespoonful of cream, and stir it over the lire till hot. Put the Turkey on to a hot dish, first removing the paper from the breast. Skim the fat off the gravy in the baking-pan, and strain it into the saucepan with the gizzard and liver. Pour the gravy over the Turkey, and serve it while very hot. (2) If an old Turkey, wash it thoroughly inside with soda water when it has been singed and emptied, then rinse it in cold water, and plunge the bird into a sauce- pan of boiling water for live minutes. Prepare a stuffing with any scraps of cold meat, stewed giblets, hard-boiled eggs, chopped celery, grated bread- or cracker-crumbs, and loz. of butter, seasoning the mixture to taste with salt and pepper, and stuff' the Turkey with it. Spread a layer of slightly warmed butter over the bird, dust it over with salt and pepper, put it in a baking-dish with 1 pint of broth, and put it in a quick oven. When it begins to brown, dredge it with Hour and baste it, turn- ing often, so that each part may be equally coloured. Fix a sheet of buttered paper over the breast to prevent dryness. When cooked, take the paper off the breast, put the Turkey on a hot dish, sift some browned bread- crumbs over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of either oyster or celery sauce. Baked Turkey a la Turque.—Clean and truss a Turkey. Wash and partially boil 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, then drain it, and mix with it about a dozen chestnuts peeled and cut into small pieces, Jib. of well-washed currants, and 2oz. of blanched and chopped pistachio nuts, seasoning the mixture with salt and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and ground cinnamon. Put Jib. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the Hre; when melted, put in the mixture, and stir it over the fire until well incorporated with the butter. Stuff the Turkey with this, sew up the breast, lay it on a baking-dish, and bake it, keeping it well basted with the butter. When cooked, place the bird on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauce- boatful of clear rich gravy. Baked Turkey with Cranberry Jelly.—Singe and draw a wild Turkey, and truss it for roasting, but do not stuff it, as the natural flavour is better without the addition of herbs and seasonings. Cover the breast with thin slices of salt fat pork, then cover the whole upper part of the Turkey with a thick sheet of well-buttered paper. Put in a baking-pan with a little water at the bottom, and bake it for nearly or quite two hours, basting it frequently. Let the water dry out of the pan at last, increase the heat of the oven, take off the paper and slices of pork, and brown the bird quickly. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of brown sauce round it, garnish with chopped cranberry jelly, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. Blanquette of Turkey.—(1) Separate the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces, seasoning them with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Put the pieces of meat into a saucepan with a small quantity of white sauce, and let it simmer for a few minutes by the side of a gentle fire. When ready, turn the mixture on to a hot Turkeys—continued. dish, garnish it with small slices of fried bacon, and serve. Any cold remains of Turkey can be used for this dish. (2) Cut off all the meat from a cold roasted or boiled Turkey. Pound the bones into small pieces, put them into a small stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, add a bunch of thyme and parsley, one small onion, and a slice or two of ham or bacon, and set the pan over a gentle fire to boil for forty minutes. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Pass the liquor through a very fine sieve. Season the pieces of Turkey with salt and pepper, put them into a saucepan with ten or twelve button mush- rooms, cover them with the liquor from the bones, and when very hot (but not boiling) pour in 4 dessert-spoon- fuls of cream, well beaten with the yolk of one egg. When rather thick, serve on a hot dish, garnished with toasted sippets of bread. Boiled Boned Turkey a la Royale.—Bone a Turkey and save the blood that runs from it. Put 21b. of knuckle of veal into a saucepan, with 41b. of gravy beef, a head of celery, one sliced turnip, one sliced carrot, two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, two dozen cloves, and a lump of salt. Pour in as much water as will cover the bird when it is put in, and boil for two hours, adding more water occasionally to keep up the original quantity. Clean the liver, heart, lungs, and gizzard, and chop them; mix with them Jib. of chopped veal, the same quantity of bacon, eighteen or twenty shallots, and a heart of celery, all chopped, and season with parsley, thyme, pounded cloves, allspice, pepper, and salt; then add 1 teacupful of button-mushrooms, and stir in the blood of the Turkey. Cover the bird with half of the forcemeat, then put on it some narrow strips of bacon, some sliced truffles, and the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, and cover them with the rest of the forcemeat. Roll and sew the Turkey up, and wrap it in a cloth, fastening it securely at the ends. Strain the broth into another stewpan, mix with it 4 pint of white wine, put in the bird, and boil it gently for three hours. When cooked, take the Turkey out, remove the cloth, put the bird in a deep Fig. 894. Boiled Boned Turkey a la Royale. dish, strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve over it, and leave it till cold. Serve on a raised dish garnished with parsley (see Fig. 894). The foregoing makes a capital dish for breakfast or supper. Boiled Turkey.—Singe and draw a Turkey, and truss it as for boiling. Wrap the bird in a cloth, put it in a saucepan with plenty of hot water, and remove the scum as it rises to the top; when the water boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer from one hour-and a-half to one hour and-three-quarters! according to the size of the bird. When cooked, drain the Turkey, remove the cloth, put it on a hot dish, pour a small quail tity of parsley-and-butter over it, and serve with a sauce- boatful of the sauce. Boiled Turkey a l’Americaine.—Serve a boiled Turkey as for A. l’Anglaise, garnishing it with half a head of cooked and hot cauliflower, one good-sized cooked carrot cut in slices, and six cooked small onions, all neatly arranged round the dish, with J pint of hot German sauce in a sauceboat.