TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 500 SPINACH (Fr. Epinard; Ger. Spinat; Ital. Spinace; Sp. Espinaca).—In Turner’s Herbal, published in 1568, Spinach is mentioned as “an herb lately found and not much in use.” Lindley informs us that “the common Spinach (Spinacia oJeracea) is a hardy annual whose native country is unknown, though generally supposed to be Western Asia.” There are several varieties of Spinach (sometimes spelled Spinage) cultivated in this country, chief of which are the winter and summer kinds; the former is known as prickly or winter Spinach and the latter as round-seeded or summer Spinach (see Fig. 635). * Fig. 635 round-seeded on Summer Spinach. The leaves are fleshy and succulent, and when thoroughly washed by passing through several supplies of water they may be cooked or prepared according to the following receipts. The juice of the leaves is used to colour confectionery. (1) Blanch a peck of well-washed Spinach and drain it; put it into a saucepan with 4 breakfast-cupful of veal stock (either the reduced gravy of a fricandeau, or a glaze), and cook for ten minutes. When ready to serve, add loz. of butter, melt well together, and serve garnished with croii tons of fried bread. (2) Pick and wash some freshly-cut leaves of Spinach, and cook it in boiling salted water for fifteen minutes. Drain the Spinach, press out all the water, chop it, then put it into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and stir it over a brisk fire for a few minutes. Mix some stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce with the Spinach, and season with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. It is then ready for serving, and makes a good garnish. (3) Wash and pick the Spinach very carefully, put it into a saucepan only just large enough to hold it, add 1 teacupful of water, and sprinkle over it a small quantity of salt; close the lid tightly, put the saucepan on the fire, and shake it frequently. When the Spinach is done, mix a small quantity of butter with it; 1 teaspoonful of cream is also an improvement. The butter and cream should be well beaten into it and the Spinach squeezed pretty dry before serving. (4) Pick the Spinach nicely, removing the stalk from each leaf, and rejecting all leaves that are old or discoloured, and wash it in several waters. Put it in a saucepan in plenty of water with about 1 dessert-spoonful of salt in it, press it down, and let it boil fast without a lid for ten or For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Spinach—continued. twelve minutes; then drain it, pressing all the water out of it, chop it fine, and put it in a stewpan over the fire with about 2oz. of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, | salt- spoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, and stir it for six or seven minutes. Lay it on a dish, smooth it over with the blade of a knife, cut it across in diamonds, and garnish with triangular-shaped pieces of bread fried in oil or butter. (5) Trim off the roots and tough stalks of \ peck of Spinach, wash it in plenty of cold salted water until quite free from sand, put it in a saucepan over the fire with sufficient boiling salted water to cover it, and boil fast for three minutes or until it is just tender, but do not allow it to become soft and watery. Drain the Spinach, and throw it into a large pan of cold water until it is cool; then drain again, chop it very line, or rub it through a colander with a masher; put it again in the saucepan over the fire to heat, with a seasoning of butter, salt, and pepper. In the meantime poach half-a- dozen eggs soft, lay the Spinach upon a hot dish, take the shells off the eggs, and lay them on the Spinach, and serve hot. Boiled Spinach with Sardines.—Wash the Spinach in several waters to thoroughly remove all the grit, then put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water and boil it gently for eight or ten minutes. A finely-chopped onion may be boiled with the Spinach if desired. Refresh the Spinach in. cold water, then drain and press it well to get it as dry as possible. Scrape the skins off a few sardines, remove the bones, and mince the flesh. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan with about 1 teacupful of finely-grated bread- crumb, and stir it over the fire until hot, then put in the Spinach and sardines, and stir the mixture well. Or, instead of the breadcrumbs, flour may be dredged in with the butter and well stirred until mixed, then a small quantity of broth or water poured in. Season with salt and pepper, and stir it until boiling. When the mixture is very hot, turn it on to a dish, form it into an oblong, gar- nish with slices of hard boiled eggs, lay six cleaned sardines over the Spinach mixture (see Fig. 636), and serve. Minced Spinach.—Boil the Spinach in plenty of salted water. When cooked, drain off all the water, chop it very fine, and season well with pepper and salt. For each pint of minced Spinach put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1,- table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until smooth and cooked. Put the Spinach in with the cooked flour before it has become brown, adding for each pint l teacupful of cream or milk, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Press the Spinach in a basin, then turn it out in shape on to a hot dish. Put a circle of slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top of the Spinach, put another circle of sliced eggs at the bottom, and serve. Spinach a la Pranpaise.—Pick the Spinach carefully oyer, wash it in several waters, as it is very gritty, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Spinach as free from water as possible, chop it fine, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Make a saucepan hot, put in the Spinach, with 1 teacupful each of gravy and cream and a small quantity of salt, and stew tiie whole gently for ten minutes. Grate 4oz. of cooked ham, and mix with it one well-beaten egg, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Stir this mixture over the fire until hot. Cut some slices of bread about J,in. thick, trim them to a round shape, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely Sauces, d-c., referred to, sec under their special heads.-