TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 642 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. fish is done (which can he ascertained by gently pressing it with the fingers and seeing if the flesh yields easily), put it on a dish, garnish with a ragout of mushrooms and mussels (see Fig. 889) or other shell fish, and serve Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Turbot a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Select a large white Turbot, make an incision about 3in. in length down the back and a little distance from the head, and with a sharp knife cut away three or four vertebrce, so that in cooking the fish will have room to swell without the skin bursting. Rub the fish well on both sides with salt, let it remain thus for an hour or so, wash off all the salt, tie it round into shape, place it on a well-buttered strainer in a fish-kettle, add lib. of butter and lqt. of champagne, and also a slight seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated mutmeg; place over the fish four lemons cut into slices with the pips removed, sprinkle over six chopped shallots and a little coarsely-minced parsley, cover the kettle, set it on the fire, and boil. Baste the Turbot frequently, remove the kettle to a slow fire, and let it boil slowly for about two hours, basting as before, and taking care not to disturb the covering of lemon, &c. Remove the fish from the kettle, strain the liquor into a saucepan, and mix in 4oz. of butter rubbed into 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Stir well until it thickens, add 1 table-spoonful of reduced veloute sauce and a small quantity of fowl glaze, boil for a minute or two, and stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place the Turbot on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce strained into a sauceboat. Turbot a la Normande.—(1) Wash and clean a small Turbot, chop off part of the fins to shorten them, put the fish into a flat saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onion, and pour in sufficient white wine to nearly cover it. Sprinkle over a little salt, add a small bunch of parsley and a few fresh mushroom trimmings, set the saucepan on a brisk fire, cover, and let the contents boil. Remove the saucepan at once to the side of the fire, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. If a small Turbot is not obtainable, half a middling-sized one can be used. Have ready a garnish composed of cooked quenelles, oysters, mussels, and fresh mushrooms. Strain off the liquor from the saucepan without removing the fish, pour it into another saucepan, reduce it to half its original quantity, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour, remove the pan from the fire, add the liquor in which the mush- rooms and oysters were cooked, boil up for a minute or two, and add a thickening of the yolks of two eggs. Put the fish on a dish, pour over the sauce,* place the garnish round, brown the whole with a salamander or in the oven, and serve. (2) Well wash and clean a moderate-sized Turbot, and lift up the flesh from the bone. Prepare a stuffing with Jib. of soaked breadcrumbs, 6oz. of scraped bacon, 3oz. of butter, and the meat from one dozen prawns or two dozen shrimps all worked into a paste in a mortar with the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, and salt and pepper to taste, keeping the mixture on the ice until it is wanted. Stuff the fish with this, taking care not to have it too full. Put loz. or 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, 1 breakfast-cupful of white fish stock, 3 wine- glassfuls of any white wine, and salt and pepper to taste ; place the fish on the top, put the saucepan on a slow fire, bring the liquor gradually to the boil, place the Turbot—continued. saucepan in a moderate oven, and cook for thirty or forty-five minutes longer. Take out the Turbot when done, put it on a dish, and keep hot. In the meantime, pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bdchamel sauce into a sauce- pan, boil it up, stirring frequently, strain it into another saucepan, and add two dozen each of mushrooms and blanched oysters and mussels. Pour in a small quantity of milk, and sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of sugar; reduce the liquor until it is moderately thick, add 6 or 8 table- spoonfuls of cream and the juice of a lemon, pour the liquor over the Turbot, and serve with the mushrooms and shell-fish for garnish. If desired, the stuffing can be omitted, and mussels or oysters used without combination, using double the quantity of whichever is obtainable. Turbot a la Poulette.—Make about f pint of plain melted butter, using very little flour but plenty of butter. Put into it about one dozen button-mushrooms, first cutting them in halves, and let them simmer until tender. Free some cold remains of Turbot from skin and bones, cut the flesh into small pieces, and put it in the sauce. When the fish is hot, move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice and strained. If liked, a small quantity of minced parsley may be put in. Turn the Turbot with its sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot it la Provencjale.—Prepare and marinade a Turbot, adding two chopped shallots and a clove of garlic to the seasoning. When ready, put it on a gridiron over a large clear fire, keeping it the white side downwards, and broil it. Turn it over on to a drainer, put it into a fish-kettle, pour in the marinade liquor together with 1 pint of cham- pagne and half the quantity of oil; dust it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, place the kettle on a sharp fire, bring the liquor to the boil, remove to a slacker fire, place hot ashes on the lid, and cook for an hour. Put the Turbot on a dish, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half-glaze; pour it over the fish, and serve with anchovy or other fish sauce in a sauceboat. Turbot Cassolettes.—Peel and boil 3lb. of potatoes, and when cooked drain off all the water and mash them over the fire, adding a large lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Next stir in the beaten yolks of tliree eggs and pass the mix- ture through a fine hair sieve. Mould the paste into small rounds about 2in. thick and 2in. in diameter, and leave them until cold. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix them over the fire; stir about h pint of milk or a sufficient quantity to make a moderately thick sauce, and when boiling put in some cold flaked Turbot and finely-chopped parsley. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and toss it over the fire until thoroughly hot. Roll the rounds of potato paste in beaten egg, and coat them well with breadcrumbs; then make a circle in the centre of each, leaving a margin of about fin. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, ancLwhen boiling put in the casso- lettes and fry them a golden brown. As each one is done, take it out of the fat and drain it for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Scoop out some of the paste within the marked circle, and fill the hollow with the Turbot mixture. Arrange the cassolettes on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, garnish taste- fully with fried parsley, and serve. Turbot Croquettes.—(1) Flake some cold Turbot with two forks. Put about loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire. Next pour iu a sufficient quantity of milk to make a thickish sauce, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When boiling put the fish into the sauce with a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and toss it over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and leave it until cold; then divide it into small quantities, and roll them in breadcrumbs to the shape of corks. Roll the croquettes in beaten egg