TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 449 Shrimps—continued. Shrimps and Boiled Rice.—Make a thick white sauce of 1 heaped table spoonful of flour, loz. of butter, and J pint of milk ■ flavour it sparingly with mace, cayenne, and salt. Stir into the sauce 1 pint of shelled Shrimps; when they are thoroughly hot, pour them on a hot dish, arrange round them a border of boiled rice, and serve. Shrimp Bouchees.—See Shrimp Patties. Shrimp Butter.—Pick and shell lib. of Shrimps, put them in a mortar, and pound them; add Jib. butter, and when well mixed pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. The Shrimp butter is then ready for use. Shrimp Cromeskies.—Shell some Shrimps and cut them into small pieces. Prepare some veloute sauce maigre, and reduce it to half its original quantity; move the sauce to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of butter divided into small pieces, continue stirring the sauce by the side of the fire, adding, when thick, the Shrimps. Leave the above mixture until cold, then divide it into equal parts, and wrap each one separately in squares of udder; roll the cromeskies to the shape of a cork, dip them in frying-batter, then plunge them into boiling fat, and fry till crisp and nicely browned. When cooked, drain the cromeskies, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Shrimp Omelet.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful each of flour and finely-chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a very small quantity of mixed herbs, and a seasoning of pepper, then mix in very gradually 1 teacupful of milk. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs. Have ready shelled J pint of Shrimps, turn them into a shallow baking-dish, and put them into the oven for a minute or two to get warm. Add the frothed white of egg quickly to the batter, beat it in lightly, and pour it over the Shrimps. Bake for twenty minutes, and serve hot. Shrimp Patties or Bouchees.—(1) Remove the shells from about 3 pints of fresh Shrimps; bone and finely chop three anchovies, mix them with the Shrimps, and season to taste with pounded mace and cloves. Moisten the mixture with about 1J wineglassfuls of white wine. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, cut the paste into rounds with a 2in. tin cutter, then with a tin. cutter cut half-way through the middle of each round of paste. Brush the rounds over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a quick oven. Heat the Shrimp mixture in a saucepan over the fire, and when the patties are cooked lift off the piece marked with the cutter, scoop out the soft inside, fill them with the mixture, cover with the small rounds of paste, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Roll out some puff paste at six turns and cut out of it eighteen bouchees with a 2in. fluted cutter; stand them on a sheet of tin and place it upon ice for ten minutes. Brush the pieces of paste over with beaten egg,' and with a ljin. cutter cut through one-third of the thickness of each bouchde (the cutter should be dipped in hot water Fig. 571. Shrimp Patties or Bouchees. before using); bake the bouchdes in a brisk oven. Shell and cut into pieces lib. of Shrimps, put them in some Shrimp sauce, and stir them over the fire till hot. When baked, lift off the pieces of paste that have been cut round to form the covers, scoop out the soft paste, fill the cavity left with the Shrimp mixture, and put the covers Shrimps—continued. on again. Arrange the bouchees on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 571), and serve them. Shrimp Pie.—(1) Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff paste, put some lumps of butter at the bottom, then put in lqt. of shelled Shrimps with two minced anchovies, half a blade of mace, two or three more lumps of butter, a dust of pounded cloves, and 1 wineglassful of white vine. Cover the pie with puff paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Pick the shells off 2qts. of boiled Shrimps, and mix with them 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 1J table-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, moderate quantities each of pepper and pounded mace, and a small quantity of salt. Butter and line the sides of a pie-dish with puff paste, place a few small pieces of butter at the bottom, put in the Shrimps, and moisten them with § breakfast-cupful of clear gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Cover the pie with puff paste, trim it off round the edges, moisten- ing and pinching them together. Bake it in a moderate oven until the paste is cooked, when the pie will be suffi- ciently done. Shrimp Rolls.—Procure some very fresh Shrimps and remove their skins and heads; cut some thin slices of bread oft’ a tin-loaf a day old, butter them, and trim off all the crusts; Fig. 572. Shrimp Rolls. strew some of the Shrimps over each slice, roll them up as evenly as possible, pile the rolls up on a bread-and- butter dish, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parslev (see Fig. 572), and serve. Shrimp Salad.—(1) Take lqt. of boiled and skinned Shrimps, lay them in a deep dish, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and adding a few branches of white celery, also cut up. Mix well together, then transfer it to a salad-bowl, and pour over J breakfast-cupful of mayonnaise dressing; decorate with two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, six leaves of lettuce, twelve stoned olives, and 1 table-spoon-ful of capers. The salad is then ready to serve. (2) Prepare lqt. of Shrimps; wash two heads of fresh lettuce, shake the water from the leaves, and arrange them in a salad-bowl; put the Shrimps in a little heap in the centre of the lettuce, and pour over them a mayonnaise made without mustard as follows : Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl, stir it with a fork, and mix oil with it, a few drops at a time, until quite a thick paste is formed; next add, a little at a time, enough vinegar to thin it, then again add oil and vinegar, stirring the dressing gently and constantly until the desired quantity of mayonnaise is made, using one third as much vinegar as oil; season to taste with salt and pepper, and use it with the salad. (3) Shell 1 pint of Shrimps, and put them into a basin with some French dressing. Stand the basin with the Shrimps on ice till just before serving. Prepare a mayon- naise dressing, and mix half of it with the Shrimps. Cut the centres out of some cabbage lettuces, and trim off the discoloured leaves, leaving the other part to form cups ; chop the centres of the lettuces, and mix them with the Shrimps. Put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture into each of the lettuce-cups, with 1 table-spoonful of mayonnaise on the top of each, then sprinkle over them some capers and pounded coral. Arrange the cups of salad on a dish, put some small sprays of well-washed parsley round the edge, and serve. (4) Tinned Shrimps.—Trim off the outside leaves of two or three lettuces, wash them in plenty of water, then VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. G