THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 611 Tortoise Broth—continued. animal is not otherwise used in cookery, it will only be necessary to give the following receipt: Remove all the flesh from the shell of a tortoise, cut it up into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 2 break- fast cupfuls of water, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity ; then throw in a handful of wild endive leaves, cover over the pan, remove it from the fire, and let it stand for ten minutes. Pass the broth through a cloth, and it is ready for use. TORTONI BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. TORTUE.—Fr. for Turtle. TOUGH MEAT.—The cause of toughness in meat is the density and quantity of the fibrous tissue, which binds the meat cells together into a mass. Toughness is usually an indication of age, but the flesh of some animals is tough even when young, so that toughness cannot be relied upon in all cases as an indication of age. What to do with Tough Meat is a question that vexes many an economical housewife and cook, especially as it is more frequently palmed upon them than it should be. The first suggestion that occurs to the improvident is to give it to the dog or cat; but it should be remembered that Tough Meat will make a good soup ; that it can be stewed till it nearly falls to pieces, gaining nothing, however, in the way of digestibility. Tough Meat, such as steak, can Fig. 815. Stanley's Patent Steak-tenderer (H. T. Tallack). be “tendered” by beating it, or by working it in a machine (see Fig. 815) consisting of two plates covered by tooth-shaped irregularities which bite into the meat and break down some of the tough fibrous tissue ; but, although good service may be rendered by such an instru- ment, it will not make Tough Meat equal to that which is young and tender. Tough Meat may be chopped up small, and then “ digested ” at a low heat in an earthenware terrine con- taining sufficient water to cover the meat and a table- spoonful of diluted hydrochloric acid to each pint of water. Braising is considered a good mode of cooking Tough Meat; but, after all, it is better to learn how to choose and use that which is tender. See Meat. TOULOUSE, A LA.—See Garnishes and Sauces. TOURNEDOS.—The literal meaning for this French term is “ tum-the-back,” and is applied to small collops of meat that are done on one side almost as soon as the cook turns his back. Receipts for these will be found under Beef, &c. TOURTE.—The French word for a tart, applied to those that are either sweet or savoury. TOUS-LES-MOIS.—The starch obtained from the underground stems of Canna edulis, sometimes used as a substitute for arrowroot. The granules are very large, flattened, and oval. Prepared as follows, it is con- sidered very good: Put 1 pint of new milk into a lined saucepan, with a piece of stick cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, and sugar to taste, and boil it. Mix 3 dessert spoonfuls of 'Ptms- les-mois smoothly with a small quantity of cold milk, then strain in slowly the boiling milk, stirring it at the same time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the mixture, and stand it in a cool place. On the Tous-les-Mois—continued. following day, turn the Tous les-mois out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. It is advisable to mix Joz. of isinglass with the above, as sometimes it will not thicken sufficiently. TRAGACANTH.—See Gums and Gum Paste. TRANSPARENT SAUCE.—See Sauces. TRAVELLER’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. TRAVELLING CAKES.—See Cakes. Fig. 816. Electro-plated or Silver Waiter (Adams and Son). TRAYS.—This term, derived from the Old English treye, or Anglo-Saxon trecj—a small trough—is indigenous to this country, as well as the vessels themselves, for by Fig 817. Electro-plated or Silver Tea- or Coffee-tray (Adams and Son). no other nationality are Trays used for so many purposes as by the British. We have our tea-trays, lunclieon- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 r 2