664 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. introduced into the market, such as preserved Calipash and Calipee, extract of Turtle-meat in bottles, Turtle- green fat in bottles, Turtle-fins in tins, and ready-made soup in glass jars. “ But the preparation of all that indicates the greatest advance in our times,” writes an authority, “is the importation of the sun-dried flesh, for reasons that must be conspicuous to all in anywise interested. Firstly, it is easy of transportation, can be bought iii any quantity, from the smallest to the greatest—from loz. to a ton, so to speak—can be stored away for use as required, and is much simpler of manipulation in the kitchen than is the live fish, or even ‘ angels and from a scientific point of view the flesh should be superior, being caught, killed, and skilfully dried in its native place, so to speak; for, careful and clever as the importer may be, the Turtle-fisli cannot reach this country after a long voyage in as good con- dition as they are caught.” The Green Turtle (see Fig. 912) (Chelonia Midas) comes of a large family which wavers midway between fish and the alligator tribe. It differs from the tortoise in that it is evidently designed for a water life, its limbs being Fig. 912. Green Turtle. shaped like paddles and fins, enabling it to swim with great ease and rapidity. The Turtle is generally im- ported alive into this country, being brought over from Jamaica and the West Indies in large tanks, or lying about the deck, to which they are frequently nailed through the fore-fins. They are caught either on shore or at sea, those on shore coming there for the purpose of laying eggs, which they do three times a year, laying about one or two hundred eggs at a time, covering them over carefully, and leaving them for the sun to hatch. When on shore their motion is so slow and clumsy that Turtle-fishers have no difficulty in turn- ing them on their backs, in which position they remain indefinitely until released by their captors. At sea they are caught by means of strong nets. The following interesting information has been supplied by a gentleman who has been engaged in the Turtle fisheries a great part of his life: “ Where Turtles abound the eggs are relished and eagerly sought after, but, according to all accounts, not quite so easily found, although one lady Turtle will deposit in a single night from one hundred and forty to two hundred eggs in the sand, carefully covering them over before she returns to sea. About a fortnight later on, she returns to the same spot to deposit again, clearing out the sand with her back fins ; and so on about every two or three weeks, to the extent of some four or five visits, eventually making a nest of something like five hundred to eight hundred eggs. So carefully are they covered up again each time that, in spite of their number, it requires an expe- rienced eye to discover them. In appearance these eggs are quite round, as large as a billiard ball, with a flexible white shell. The Orinoco and Amazon Indians are reputed to make quite a little harvest from Turtle eggs in the season, for when the high waters of the Orinoco subside, about the month of February, it is estimated that millions Turtle—continued. of Turtles come ashore to lay. They obtain a very fine, clear, sweet oil from these eggs, which serves the purpose of butter to them. “ A native of Brazil, it is said, will consume as many as twenty or thirty Turtle’s eggs at a meal, and a European, if accounts be true, can swallow a dozen or two for break- fast. They make good omelets when fresh, and the Indians eat them raw, mixed with their cassava-flour. With us they are more familiar taken from the newly- slain Turtle before the parchment-like shell is formed, and in this condition the young eggs consist entirely of yolk; hundreds, in all stages of development, are found, from a pin’s head to full size. Sometimes these imperfectly-formed eggs are dried for use, but more generally the cook uses them up in a dish of soup, or entree.” Turtles, he further informs us, live to a great age, and sometimes grow so large as to weigh nearly a thousand pounds; but any exceeding two hundred pounds are very rarely caught for market, the most convenient size of all weighing from 60ib. to 801b. The object of the Turtle- fisher is to deliver the fish alive, unless it is deter- mined to dry the flesh, a practice that is rapidly increasing as the value of the dried flesh is ascertained. Turtles in captivity very rarely feed. How they keep up their excellent quality in a state of servitude is one of those mysteries unknown to man; but it is generally admitted that a Turtle is materially lightened, and there- fore damaged, by a long voyage. It is said to fret and pine as for the loss of haunts of freedom and its fellows, with whom, however, it is rarely seen. So a Turtle, with its peculiar three eyelids, which, no doubt, gives to it much of its melancholy, love-sick appearance, is spoken of by many as an emblem of suffering love and sacrificial devotion. The popular name “ Green ” Turtle is derived not so much from the above-named amorous-looking peculiarity, for that is common to all, nor from the colour of its external covering, which is mostly a dark olive, passing into dingy white, as from the fat—the lovely green fat— that is so highly prized by epicures. Before dressing a Turtle it is necessary to kill it, unless you prefer those who have succumbed to hardships or hard fate, and are commonly known as “ angels these can be purchased at a very low rate. The Japanese are accredited with the following: They place the Turtle in a pan of water on the fire, cover the pan with a lid, having a hole large enough to allow the Turtle to put its head through, which it does as soon as the water begins to get hot. They then feed it with a mixture of wine-and- flour paste, of which it partakes greedily, probably to lessen the effects of the beat. This operation continues so long as the Turtle has strength enough left to put its head through the hole. It is not necessary to say that such practices are not known in this country, but that the more merciful process of beheading is the rule. The hind fins are tied together ready for hanging up, then, by tickling under the chin, the Turtle can be coaxed into protruding its head, when, by a determined cut direct from the wrist, and with the knife edge entering just behind the head, the deed is done. Then it is hung up by the hind fins all night to bleed into a bucket, and if the Turtle were pretty healthy and lively the head will be found to retain its vitality a long time—even to snapping at a carrot with its jaws, but not to the extent of following you about, as some have said. In the morning the body will be ready for the chef’s attentions, which are as follow: Lay the dead Turtle on its back and take oft’ the fins at the sockets ; cut round the joint, bend so that the knuckle protrudes through the cut, and then sever the ligaments. Next begin to remove the under shell, or calipee, by inserting the knife-point and cutting inwards; do not insert the knife point close to the edge of the under shell, but