THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 542 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. the pressure of the thumb (see Fig. 714), whilst the index finger guides the direction, and the other fingers curl under to give support. Into the paper cornet orna- menting-tubes are generally inserted for the purpose of producing at one action a variety of patterns, ropes, bands, or tapes, and other designs. These piping- tubes are of great variety and style, some confectioners claiming merits for one kind and some for another. When pipes fitted with screws are rased, the nozzle into which they are to be screwed should be fastened into something stronger than a paper bag—one of silk (see Fig. 715) is preferable. A very useful instrument has been made in the form of a forcing-syringe (see Fig. 716). The first and second fingers are inserted in the side rings, and the . thumb presses in the J . N'\ piston at the same ■; ( A 'i;—i-Ap time. These syringes V \ are also fitted with A-\ screw pipes; but, al- / if • \ though their action is /•' J i , to be recommended for A / Asl cleanliness and neat- ness of execution, they are not considered to be so tractable as the ordinary cornet. In order to give some idea of the exquisite pat- terns yielded by the great variety of piping- tubes in use, a few de- signs, representing the mouths of the tubes in action, are shown in Fig. 717. Sugar-piping is an art, and, like all arts, is not easily acquired. It takes years of steady and persevering prac- tice to become a master of the art; but even a beginner, with any ideas of design what- ever, may, with the as- sistance of the tools already described, and by following the in- structions, create such pleasing effects as to encourage him or her to further attainments. Let it be remembered that Fig. 716. Forcing-Syringe for Piping. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. their first efforts that the Sugar is drawn from the tube, like a length of thread, whereas no thread of Sugar will emerge without pressure on the bag. Once get over this, and Sugar-piping will be comparatively easy. Fig. 717. Piping-Tubes in Action, showing Sugar as it Issues. As for designs, they are innumerable, varying from simple threads to combinations of patterns of the highest and most artistic quality. It is, however, always advisable, that before commencing on the cake the design should be decided upon, and then carried out; some little improve- ments may occur as the piper proceeds. In framing artists, Art hath thus decreed, To make some good, but others to exceed. Wherefore the degree of artistic perfection to which Sugar-pipers may attain depends very much upon the natural talents of the individuals, and the ability they display to grasp the ideas of others. As a sample of what can be done in piping, reference should be made to the Plate of designs executed by Mr. C. Norwak, a member of the Encyclopaedia staff, whose marvellous productions have gained for him a gold medal. See Bridecakes. Before trying to pipe a cake it would be advisable for the beginner to practise a little on a piece of glass, on the back of which has been gummed a sheet of paper, bearing a series of patterns. In this way he will get accustomed to the use of the bag, which requires even and continued pressure to keep up an unbroken cord or pipe; the hand being drawn along in the direction indicated by the desired pattern in exact proportion to the pres- sure. Herein lies much of the difficulty experienced by unpractised pipers; the notion seeming to prevail with Fig. 718. Broad-headed Nail For Piping Flowers. Ornaments in piping should be worked on glass, tin, or marble, the surface having been previously wiped lightly with a rag soaked in almond oil. They must be prepared a day or two before being required, and they can then be lifted off with a knife, and stuck on the cake with icing. Any piping required to finish can be laid on after- wards.