THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 442 Fur details respecting Culinarg Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. I in. thick, and flour them well. Put 3oz. of flutter over the fire in a small frying-pan, shake into it a moderate quantity of pepper and salt, 1 saltspoonful of chopped onion, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; when this begins to simmer, fry the floured slices of kidney in it till they are nicely browned on both sides. As soon as they are done, take them from the pan, and put them on a hot dish. Mix 1 dessert spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of good gravy, pour it into the frying-pan as soon as the kidneys are taken out, and stir it a few minutes over the fire. Pour it over the kidneys, and serve at once. (2) Trim off the thin outer skin of the kidneys, split them lengthwise down the middle, but without entirely separating them, dust over with salt and pepper, and flour them lightly. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, then put in the kidneys, the cut side first, place them over the fire, and when done on one side, turn and cook the other. If cooked too long, the kidneys will be shrivelled up. Place the kidneys on a hot dish. Break eight or ten eggs in the pan with the gravy and fat from the kidneys, and fry them. Garnish the dish of kidneys with the fried eggs, and serve very hot. Fried Sheep’s Kidneys with Curry Sauce.—Trim four kidneys, cut them across in fine pieces, fry them in butter till nicely cooked, and season them with salt and pepper. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful each of curry-powder and flour, and a moderate quantity of salt, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then pour in gradually § breakfast-cupful of clear broth, and con- tinue stirring until boiling. A small quantity of finely- chopped onion may be used to flavour the sauce, or the stewpan may be first rubbed over with garlic. When ready put the kidneys on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sippits of toast or small croutons of bread that have been lightly fried in butter, and serve. Roasted Sheep’s Kidneys.—Trim off the skin of the kidneys, split them lengthwise without entirely separating them, season with salt and pepper, and fix them in a Dutch oven; put a thick slice of toasted bread at the bottom of the oven. Work in with about 2oz. of butter a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, chervil, and chives. When the kidneys are cooked, place the toast on a hot dish, and put the kidneys on it; put a small piece of the butter in the centre of each kidney, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys en Bordure.—Mould a border of chicken forcemeat or potato, and turn it on to a hot broad round dish. Fill the centre with sliced Sheep’s Kidneys prepared by stewing in Madeira, and then masking half of the slices with Spanish sauce, and the remaining half with veloute. This gives a very pretty and artistic effect, the slices of kidney partaking of two colours, brown and white. Great care is re- quired in arranging the slices, to give them the appearance of being loosely tossed together. Prepare a sauce from the wine stock by thickening with roux, and seasoning with salt and pepper, and serve separately in a boat. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Brochette.—(1) Take off the skin and remove the sinews from a few kidneys, and cut them in halves lengthwise and then each half again in two. Put them on a plate, season them with salt and pepper, and brush them over with a little oil. Cut some thin slices of fat bacon up in pieces the same size as the quarters of kidneys, place them on skewers alternately, dip them into breadcrumbs, and broil them over a quick fire until they are cooked. Put them on a dish, and serve hot. (2) First make a stuffing by mixing together 1 table- spoonful of very fine breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of minced onion, and a little pepper and salt, and make it into a paste by working into it 3 dessert-spoonfuls of butter. Split six Sheep’s Kidneys lengthwise, but do not cut them right through, leaving enough meat and skin uncut at one side to form a kind of hinge. Warm a little butter in front of the fire, and when it is melted rub the insides of the kidneys well with it. Lay the kidneys open, back downwards, on a greased hot gridiron over a clear hot I Sheep—continued. fire. They will take about eight minutes to cook. Turn them frequently. Put the stuffing over the fire in a small saucepan, stir it until it is very hot, and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Lay the kidneys, backs downwards, on a hot dish, put some of the stuffing inside each, close the two sides of the kidneys on it, shake a little pepper over them, lay a small bit of butter on each, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Franqaise.—Skin the kidneys, cut them into quarters, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter and fry them, dredging them lightly over with flour. When the kidneys are nearly cooked, put in with them a few chopped mushrooms, some chopped shallots and parsley, and a small wineglassful of sherry or French white wine, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and finish frying them, stirring them constantly at the same time. When cooked, turn the kidneys on to a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemons, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys d, la Tartare.—Remove the skin from eight kidneys and cut them lengthwise, but not to sever them. Melt Hoz. of butter in a saucepan, and when it is lightly browned put in the kidneys, sprinkling them over with salt and pepper and a little flour, and adding 1 teacupful of gravy or broth and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Put the pan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for five minutes, when they should be done. Put some pieces of toast without crusts on a dish, place the kidneys on them, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Kidneys en Terrine.—Put some Sheep’s Kidneys into a frying-pan with a little butter and fry them slightly. They should not be cut open for this. Place them in an earthenware terrine, with a few slices of onions, also browned in butter, and add a slice of lean bacon, two potatoes, and two carrots also cut in slices; pour over 1 pint of stock or water, put on the lid, set the Fig. 564. Sheep's Kidneys en Terrine. terrine in the oven, and cook gently for about three hours. When done, take them out, put the terrine on a dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 564), and serve very hot. Sheep’s Kidneys with Macaroni.—Break 41b. of macaroni into moderate sized lengths, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them until tender. Trim off the skin and fat from three or four Sheep’s Kidneys, cut them into slices, and rub them over with salt and pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, and powdered sweet herbs. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and melt it; then put in the kidneys, and fry them until half cooked. Pour the butter off the kidneys, moisten them to height with nicely flavoured gravy and tomato sauce, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, place the kidneys