TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 562 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Service—continued. attention should be devoted to its proper understand- ing. The desire to please one’s guests and place them entirely at their ease should prevail throughout, wherefore it is advisable to dispense with those forms and formalities that have no beneficial bearing upon the sociability of the service, employing such forms only as by their general observance contribute to the comfort of the individual. See, in the first instance, then, that ample room at table is provided for each guest, and that the chairs are roomy and comfortable. The Romans reclined at table on softly-cushioned couches ; but it is not to be supposed that this was the most convenient or luxurious mode of eating. After a full dinner the reclining would be acceptable, especially as the custom was, after feeding, to drink freely of wine. A comfortable chair is all that the modern banqueter need desire. See Banquets. Of the utensils displayed in modern Table Service, it may be surmised that in England we are apt to use knives and forks if anything a trifle heavier than comfort or necessity requires. Frenchmen use knives and forks of a small calibre, consonant with the delicacy of their made dishes. The largest knife should not exceed 9|in. in length, the small knife 7Jin. in length, and the largest fork 8jin. Mr. Theodore Child, in a work entitled “ Delicate Dining” (which he has dedicated to his friend P. Z. Didsbury), makes some remarks on Table Service, amongst much other excellent matter, from a gourmet’s point of view, which are so very reasonable, shrewd, and practical, that this shall be the excuse for reproducing them here. He says, “ Simple knives and forks seem to me to be desirable, and all heavy and elaborate ornamentation should be avoided, especially ornamentation in high relief, which is irritating to the touch. On the other hand, variety may be charming. At a dainty dinner, I would have knives and forks of a different pattern with every dish (meaning course, probably). “ The glasses that figure on a table ”—adding so much to its attractive appearance—“ will depend on the wines served; they should be convenient and elegant in form, and owe their charm simply to the purity of the crystal and the beauty of their silhouette. Engraved glass, cut glass, and coloured glass is used very sparingly by people of taste. Bordeaux, Burgundy, and Champagne wines should be drunk out of nothing but the purest crystal glass, which conceals none of their qualities of colour or scintillation. It is the common custom to drink German wines out of coloured glasses; liqueur glasses are often coloured also; but it seems absurd to mask the purity and delicate hues of whatever nectar we may be drinking by serving it in obfuscating glasses of green, blue, red, or any other colour. For my part, I would admit to the gourmet’s table only pure and very simply decorated crystal glass.” Concerning this service of glass, some further obser- vations will be found under Wines, and some very fine designs will be found depicted on one of the Plates of this Encyclopaedia, entitled “ Drinking Glasses.” Of Decanters it is not necessary to say very much ; no gourmet would permit real wine to be decanted, however ornamental the decanters may be (see Wines). Child says: “ If the wine served is not real wine, you may decant it, and do whatever you please with it, except sei’ve it to your guests,” which saying, although something of a bull, deserves to be recorded. Explaining the difference between French and English Table Service, the same author finds fault with the “ multiplicity of special apparatus ” to be found on an English table. “ In a French house,” he observes, “ the ai-ticles for Table Service are knives, forks, spoons, soup-ladles, salad-spoon and fork, a manche a gigot (or handle to screw on to the knuckle-bone of a leg of mutton, so that the carver my hold it while he cuts), a hors-d’oeuvre service, sauce-bottle stands, oil-and- yinegar stands, salt-cellars, pepper-mills, mustard-pots, hot- Table Service—continued. water dishes, oyster-forks, asparagus-servers, ice-pails, nut-crackers, grape-scissors, crumb-brush and tray, a salver or tray, with a sugar-basin, &c., for tea, and there will be an end of the silver articles. With this apparatus, and the necessary supply of plates, dishes, crockery, glass, and linen, the most delicate and complicated repast may be perfectly served.” With regard to gold and silver plate, he observes that it “ is very little used, except in a few princely houses,” and adds that “ its absence from table is not to be regretted ; the noise made by the knife and fork coming in contact with gold or silver ware is irritating to the nerves; the glare and reflections cast upon the face of the diner by his gold or silver plate are disagreeable to the eyes.” The only use for this kind of ware is “ limited to candle- sticks, dessert-stands, and centre ornaments, if such are used.” And “ if we are the lucky possessors of fine silver soupi'eres, by Pierre Germain, or ewers by Froment Meurice or the Foumieres, exhibit them on the buffet or dresser (sideboard), rather than on the table.” Enough has been said concerning the utensils used in feasting; the selection is not material, provided good taste be displayed in their use. It is quite possible to serve a magnificent epicurean meal on an ordinary service of glass and crockery, only omitting a cruet-stand, of which the French diner has an innate horror. A few flowers go a long way towards rendering the cloth attractive, and the rest will depend upon the cook. General rules only can be given for Table Service; their utility will depend upon the adaptive faculties of the reader. Some further suggestions will be found under special headings, such as Banquets, Breakfasts, Glass, Luncheons, Plates, &c. Have the room thoroughly swept and dusted before laying the cloth. Spread the cloth evenly, taking pains to have the central crease exactly in the middle. A sideboard cloth should be laid for breakfast, upon which may be placed ham, tongue, or other cold viands, with carvers, plates, and knives and forks. Always put a table-spoon in front or at the side of the dish it is intended to serve. Lay covers, with the handles of all knives and forks exactly even, and one inch from the edge of the table, and one foot of clear space between. See that all cruets are freshly filled. Place the serviette (napkin) between the knives and forks, and a manchet, or piece of bread, in the napkin where it can be seen. Let the services of plates and dishes be of one pattern and size, if possible, excepting metal or plated dishes, but even these should match. The sideboard should perform a very prominent part in the provisions of a breakfast or luncheon, but not so much at a dinner, when a dinner-wagon is always found to be more convenient. Servants do not generally wait at luncheon, the meal being essentially homely, domestic, and informal. Tumblers are placed on the luncheon-table, but not on the dinner-table, excepting beer be supplied. Ale may be placed on the table at luncheon or supper, or on the sideboard, but never on the table at dinner. When pouring out bottled ale or stout, pour very slowly with the glass inclined towards the bottle. Let the ale or stout flow down the side of the tumbler, and in this way the excessive frothing will be avoided. Do not quite empty the ale bottle, or the contents of the glass will be cloudy, if not thick. Fresh fruits are often supplied at luncheon; the neces- sary plates, knives, forks, &c., should be left on the sideboard or dinner-wagon, ready for use if desired. For dessert after dinner, the fruit should be set on the table. Finger-bowls are used at dinner only. When laying a cover for dinner, put two large knives and a spoon on the right, and two large forks on the left.