649 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. fire for two or three minutes longer, then stuff the hinl with it. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, and put in the bird with two or three sliced carrots and onions, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a few sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf; add a few peppercorns and salt to taste, moisten to height with J pint of sherry and clear stock, and cover with a sheet' of buttered paper. Put the lid on the pan, with some hot ashes on it, and place it over a slow fire. Braise the Turkey for about four hours, and when cooked Fig. 895. Braised Turkey'. place it on a hot dish. Strain the cooking liquor into a small saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it up again ; then pour it over the bird, garnish round with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts (see Fig. 895), and serve. Braised Turkey Studded with Truffles.—Singe and draw a Turkey, cut off the claws at the first joints, stuff it with breadcrumb stuffing, truss it, and singe it over to set the flesh. Stud the bird with two rows of squares of raw truffles down each side of the breast, and one row on the thick part of each leg, dust it over with salt, cover it with thin rashers of bacon, then wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and fasten it securely with fine twine or thread. Put it in a braising-pan with some sliced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in to half its height some unskimmed broth, put the cover on the pan, and braise the Turkey over a slow fire, keeping it rather underdone. Prepare and cook some truffles, cocks’ combs and small Turkey forcemeat quenelles as for garnish. When the Turkey is cooked, drain oft' the cooking stock, passing it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, skim it, and boil it till somewhat reduced with some trimmings of truffles. Untrass the bird, put it on a hot dish, and garnish it with the cocks’ combs, truffles, and quenelles, arranging them in groups (see Fig. 896). Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, pour a small quantity of it over the Turkey, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Braised Turkey Stuffed with Truffles.—Singe and draw a fat hen Turkey, cut the neck off, leaving the crop skin as long as possible, scald the feet, and rub off the skin. Peel 31b. of truffles, and cut them into small balls. Put 1 Jib. of grated fat bacon into a frying-pan, put in two shallots, three bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, and one unpicked clove of garlic, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry over a slow fire. When cool, strain the melted bacon-fat into a basin, and put in the truffles and half of the truffle trimmings, chopped. Stuff the Turkey with the aliove mixture, and truss it as for boiling. Line a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon, put in the Turkey Turkeys—con tinned. wrapped in a sheet of buttered paper, and cover it with 3 pints of mirepoix and J pint of Madeira. When the liquor boils, move the braising-pan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and braise the Turkey. Make some perigueux sauce, using up the remainder of the truffle trimmings. When cooked, drain the Turkey, untie it, put it on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Broiled Turkey’s Legs.—Cut the legs off' a cold roasted Turkey, dust them over with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and cut them slightly across with a sharp knife. Squeeze some lemon juice over them, put them on a well-greased gridiron, and broil till nicely browned on both sides over a clear fire. When finished, put the legs on a hot dish, baste them with warmed butter, and serve. Canapes of Turkey.—Cut some thin slices off the breast of a cold cooked Turkey, cut the slices into strips tin. wide, and as long as a slice of bread. Cut some rather thin slices of bread, dip each strip of meat into a thick r6moulade sauce, and lay four on each slice of bread. Put another slice of bread on the top of each, and cut them into fingers, lengthwise with the Turkey. Wrap them separately in pieces of wax paper, and arrange them on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a dish. The paper will prevent the fingers drying, and will keep them fresh for twelve hours or more. Chaudfroid of Turkey.—Cut the flesh off the breast of a large Turkey that has been cooked and cooled, then cut it into thin fillets lengthwise ; trim them to an equal size, dip them in some white chaudfroid sauce, and lay them by the side of each other on a baking-sheet. Leave the fillets till the sauce is cold, then trim them, and coat them with aspic jelly. Have ready a small pyramid shaped out of fat, stuck on a pain-vert, and orna- mented op the top with a vase of fat. Arrange the fillets on the pain-vert, leaning against the pyramid, and garnish the base of them with a circle of chopped jelly. Hollow out some cooked truffles, fill them with a salpifon of poultry that has been thickened with mayonnaise sauce, then arrange them round the base of the pain-vert, and serve. If liked, the fillets of Turkey may be alternated with fillets of pickled tongue that has been coated with red aspic. Devilled Turkey’s Legs.—(1) Cut and trim the legs off a cold cooked Turkey, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix a small quantity of mustard to a paste with some oil, rub the legs in it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning and basting often. When nicely coloured, put the legs on a hot dish, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve. (2) Take the leg of a cold cooked Turkey, gash it over in several places, allowing the knife to touch the bone, and season it well with salt, black pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne. Mix 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 2 teaspoonfuls of flour to a thick smooth paste with cold water, then spread it well over the leg, lay it on a grid- iron, and broil it over a clear fire, turning it. Place the leg on a small hot dish, garnish with a folded napkin or dish paper, and serve. (3) Take the legs of a cold Turkey and score them across and across, making incisions about Jin. deep and about Jin. apart from eacli other. Put 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of dry mustard into a basin, and mix it smoothly with J teacupful of chilli vinegar ; then add 1 teaspoonful each of grated horseradish and braised shallot, a small teaspoon- ful each of caster sugar and chopped chillies, a salt- spoonful each of salt and white pepper, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and the beaten yolk of an egg, and mix all thoroughly. Spread some of the mixture over each of the legs, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When they are done, lay them on a hot dish, pour some clear nicely-flavoured brown gravy round them, and serve. These make a very savoury and easily prepared breakfast dish. (4) Take the leg of a roasted Turkey, score it, put it ou a gridiron, and broil it over a clear fire. Put into a small saucepan a little more than half a teacupful of clear