561 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Table Linen—continued. serviettes, there is little advice to be given, excepting that they should be of good linen (or damask, as this particular kind is called), perfectly white and scrupulously clean, evenly folded, soft, and quite free from artificial stiffening. A writer observes that “ the cloth should be spotlessly clean, and if this condition exist much will be pardoned; it may be of pure white linen or damask, or it may have a coloured pattern woven or embroidered along the edges. The use of colour in the pattern of Table Linen is by no means novel. In the miniatures of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the table-cloths and dresser-cloths are constantly represented with rose or blue stripes and borders. Some luxurious table-cloths, nowadays, are not only richly embroidered, but also adorned with inserted bands of lace, which give you the sensation of dining off a petticoat.” The foregoing remai’ks may be sufficiently accurate to pass muster under ordinary circumstances, but there are occasions when some such designs as those shown in a Plate of Artistic Table-cloths are not only feasible, but exceedingly tasty, No special instructions for their preparation are necessary beyond advising a free use of safety-pins, or strong thread tacking. Two cloths are sometimes used, the under-cloth being embroidered, and the upper looped up with silver cords and tassels, or bunches of flowers, ribbons, bows, or rosettes. Table-cloths should be most accurately folded when removed from the Table, folded over and upon it, so that each crease may be used again, thus avoiding crump- ling ; and the cloth when folded should be placed un- der a linen-press (see Fig. 742) arranged very evenly, and kept quite flat and pressed down. Five o’clock cloths, and cloths for side tables, boards, or dinner-waggons, are some- times embroidered in colour; for a sideboard, the part of the cloth that falls over would look well if a trail of vine, grapes, and corn were embroidered along it. The first use of the table- cloth was not only to cover the Table, but for the diners to wipe their fingers upon, at a time when forks were unknown; and the custom was to dip the fingers in the plate, and then wipe them and the mouth on the cloth. Fashion and civilisation have together substituted for the cloth a simple napkin, which has since been improved into one of the chief features of ornamentation in the service of the Table. Poets, historians, and authentic chroniclers have been strangely silent touching the beauties of the “ snowy ” table-cloth ; but they have waxed eloquent concerning the napkin and its folding, until the latter has become an absorbing art. See Serviettes. TABLE SERVICE.—To Careme the following is attributed : “ France is the mother country of hospitality; her cookery and her wines assure for her a triumph in gastronomy. She is the only country in the world famous for good cheer; strangers are quickly convinced of this by experience.” The probability is that it emanated from Brillat-Savarin, and underwent a little alteration of sense and meaning by Careme, for every gourmet that ever lived has given to England the chaplet for hospitality. France may excel in French cookery, and France may excel in wines, but English cooks are not altogether insensible to Table Service—continued. the art of cooking English dinners, and the best French cooks in the world come to England to practise. Urbain-Dubois, who has probably been quite as expert a cook as Careme, says, in his standard work on “ Artistic Cookery ”: “ As respects England, those who have studied its development cannot fail to have observed that the art of eating, in the highest sense of the word, has undergone notoriously progressive transformations. All classes of society furnish their contingent of expert and well-trained epicures; but it is in the higher circles more especially that the taste for gastronomy is the most widely diffused and the most highly cultivated. English cookery, con- sidered in its practical results and its rich splendour, stands much higher than its former reputation, and it has in every respect improved, and advanced towards perfection. The tables of the nobility and gentry are served with uncommon opulence, but above all with the nicest care and attention. The viands are varied, abundant, luxurious, and delicate. The kitchens are admirably organised and richly stored ; they are, in fact, permanent and thriving schools, whence good traditions are con- tinually spreading. If the tables of the middle classes be still deficient as regards variety, yet it may be said that the care bestowed on the details and the manifest character of real comfort presiding at their repasts, make amends for this defect; and besides, here, as everywhere else, improvement becomes every day more visible.” The same author further adds : “ It is a fact worthy of notice that, in England, culinary art is more cultivated (encouraged) than in any other country.” It should be if it is not, for no country in the world offers such grand facilities for cooking. English cooks should be further stimulated to great efforts by the following : “ Formerly the science of good living, the research after delicate viands, were the privileges of the few; nowadays epicures may be counted by legions. In all countries, among developed nations, and those that seek after the benefits of modern civilisation, the most enlightened minds are the most fervent worshippers at the shrine of good taste.” Good cooks deserve good service; this should be borne in mind, as also that upon this service much of the success of the entertainment will depend. Never was a greater mistake made than to proclaim, as a maxim, that the flavour of the viand depends in no wise upon the service. A very observant writer expresses himself thus : “ Let the plates and dishes off which we eat be as fine as our purses can afford. One of the great errors made at some of the best Parisian restaurants is to serve fine food on comparatively coarse plates.” Before proceeding to a detailed description of the art of Table Service, it should be observed that the host is supposed to give a hearty welcome to those who are about to partake with him as his family or guests. His motto should be: Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table; and for the sake of good-fellowship, the guest should accept the invitation with becoming courtesy, and re-echo the words of Crabbe: To the house of a friend, if you’re pleased to retire, You must all things admit, you must all tilings admire; You must pay with observance the price of your treat, You must eat what is praised, and must praise what you eat. Amongst all classes, and in all parts of the world, there is no ceremony so enticing as that associated with a festive board; no family gathering so auspicious as a homely dinner. The well-spring of charity responds with redoubled enthusiasm to A rat-tat-too o’ knives an’ forks, a clinkety-elink o’ glasses; and not only are the hearts moved, but the purses are opened by a good dinner well served. Upon Table Service so much of the social success of a meal depends that some considerable time and Fig. 742. Linen-press (Adams and Son). VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see tinder their special heads. 2 o