TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 583 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tench—continued. Sprinkle a little cayenne and chopped parsley over the fish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, strain the sauce over all, and serve. (5) Scale and clean three or four Tench, dry them well, hold them in front of a fire for a few minutes, sprinkle with flour, put them in a frying-pan, and let them brown ; transfer them to a saucepan, pour over sufficient wine and water in equal parts to cover, add a small quantity each of walnut ketchup, lemon pickle, mushroom powder, and browning, a little horseradish, an onion stuck with two cloves, and cayenne to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, cover it with the lid, and cook the contents gently for about an-hour-and-a-half, or until the liquor has nearly boiled away. Put the fish carefully on a dish, thicken the liquor with a small piece of butter kneaded with flour, boil up once more, pour it through a sieve over the fish, and serve at once. (6) Clean and dry three or four Tench, put them into a saucepan with igall. of water, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a stick of horse- radish, two onions, a little mace and whole pepper, and salt to taste. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, cover it with the lid, and cook the contents gently for about an- hour-and-a-half. Bone and pound two anchovies, put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 4oz. of butter rolled in flour; a little lemon-peel, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and 1 gill of the liquor from the fish. Mix well, and boil for a few minutes. Put the fish on a dish ; pour the two liquors into one saucepan, add the juice of a lemon, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little more cream, and boil up; pour this while hot over the Tench, and serve. Stewed Tench a la S?oulette.—Remove the gills from about ljlb. of Tench, clean the fish, plunge it into boil- ing water for a few minutes, then take it out and skin. Wipe the fish on a cloth, cut it into pieces about 2in. long, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Put 2oz. of butter and lioz. of flour into another sauce- pan over the fire, stir well for two or three minutes, pour in lqt. of light wine, and boil for about ten minutes, stirring continually; pour this into the saucepan with the fish, fimmer gently at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes, add a thickening of the yolks of three eggs and ^oz. of butter, and cook for a few minutes longer; remove the faggot and clove of garlic, sprinkle in a little fi nely - chopped parsley, take out the pieces of fish, heap them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Tench au Gratin.—Chop fine a few onions, shallots, mush- rooms, and a little parsley; sprinkle a gratin-dish with a small quantity of it, then put in two large cleaned Tench, and cover them with the remainder of the fine herbs. Add salt to taste, and moisten with oil or hot butter and i wineglassful of white wine. Set the dish on the fire, boil up, remove it to a moderate oven, and let it remain for fifteen minutes. Take out the fish, put them on a dish, and cover with the fine herbs; pour 1 teacupful of brown sauce into the gratin-dish, let it remain in the oven for about ten minutes, pour the contents over the Tench, garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve (see Fig. 776). Tench Fie.—Sprinkle over the bottom of a well-buttered dish with grated nutmeg, ground mace, salt, and pepper; over these lay three or four cleaned and dried Tench, put a few small lumps of butter on them, and pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of red wine and a little water. Cover Tench—continued. the dish with puff paste, making a small hole at the top, set the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for about an hour. Take out the pie when done, pour a little hot rich gravy into it through the hole at the top, and serve. TENDERING-.—See Tough Meat. TENDONS {Fr. Tendons).—The long, tough, inelastic sinews or thews into which the fibres of muscles are inserted are usually known by this name, but the French cook extends the signification to the cartilages at the end of the ribs of a breast of veal. They are to be cut out before the meat is cooked by laying the breast on the table with the bony surface upwards, then with a sharp knife cut the Tendons off the ribs, the junction of the Tendons and bones being shown by a line of white gristle. For modes of cooking them, see Veal. TERCE.—See Tierce. TERRAPIN.—A kind of tortoise that lives on the sea-shore or in the salt marshes of America. It is sup- posed to be a cross between the turtle and the land tortoise, and its flesh is highly esteemed as a food. The principal varieties are the Yellow-bellied Terrapin [Pseudernys scabra) of the Southern United States, the Red- bellied Terrapin (P. rugosa) of Chesapeake Bay, and the Diamond-back or Salt-marsh Terrapin (Malaclemmys palustris) caught along nearly the whole of the Atlantic coast. When full grown they measure about a foot long and are supposed to be in season all the year round. When caught they can be kept alive for a long, time in tubs of salt water, and their condition im- proved by feeding with vegetable peelings. To kill the Terrapin it is necessary to have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, one that will hold the Terrapin easily, and to plunge the creature into it, head first, putting on the lid immediately and leaving it in the water for ten or fifteen minutes. Then take it out and peel off the black skin from the shell, and the nails from the claws. Wash them thoroughly in warm water, and remove the under- shell by chipping through the thinnest parts, where the back shell joins. Cut close to the shell so as not to lose any meat, pour away the water, but keep the blood which will be found in the deep or top shell. Take out the dark green gall-bladder, which is the size of a cherry, and will be found near the centre at the side of the liver, and also the sand-bag and entrail, and preserve the eggs if there be any. Loosen the meat from the top shell, cutting through the spine-bone just above the tail, where it is attached to the shell, turn the Terrapin into a flat pan, and cut off the head. This, with the shell, can be used for soup. Separate the two fore and two hind legs, so as to have four pieces, trim off the claws, and scrape off the thin outside covering. In the female Terrapin will be found rich fat at the shoulders. This should be taken off, as it does not require so much cooking as the other parts, and should only be added when they are nearly done. It is of a dark green colour. All the pieces of meat, together with the fat and eggs, should be kept in water until wanted for use. Only the flesh, eggs, and liver of the Terrapin are ordinarily used, but sometimes the intes- tines are scalded and scraped, and added to stewed Terrapin. When there are no eggs in the Terrapin, egg balls are made to accompany it. Baked Terrapin.—Cut off the head of a Terrapin, put it in a saucepan or pot with the shell on, and let it boil till the under shell can be removed easily. Take it out, pull out all the meat, cleaning the upper shell thoroughly; pick the meat to pieces, and mix it up with a few crackers and chopped onions, a small quantity each of all- spice, black pepper, chopped parsley and butter, and pour over a little wine. Put this mixture into the top shell, place a few slices of lemon on the top, set it in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve.