THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 539 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. two long threads of Sugar to form the top and bottom boun- daries of the work. Then fill in this latticing as shown in the illustration. The ends are not to be united by a boundary thread, as they must remain open so as to form a neat join. For the better handling of the Sugar when set, a boundary line at each end, or at one end, may be added if desired, and snipped off with a pair of scissors when the join is made; or left on and the join con- cealed with some sort of ornamentation such as a trail of flowers. When the moulding is set nearly hard it may be removed from the mould by winding round a wooden block or large glass bottle (see Fig. 702). The ends Fig. 703. Top of Sultane. should then be fixed and the bottle stood on end with the Sugar lattice round it. Put it at once in a cool place, and let it set quite hard before proceeding to make up the sultane. The top is easily rounded by marking a circle on a slab the size required, and running Sugar round this; when set, lift it up, put it on the lattice mould, and fill in the usual way, or complete the latticing on the marble slab (see Fig. 703). Ingenuity will teach the Sugar-worker to utilise the processes described in the formation of many other contrivances for preparing and constructing artistic Sugar designs, especially with the aid of the next two processes to be described. Sugar - spinning or Drawing is usually associated with Sugar-moulding, but admits of so many artistic applications that it deserves special mention. Spun or drawn Sugar (sucre file) re- sembles spun glass in some particulars, especially in appearance and adaptability to purposes of ornamentation. The Sugar production is, however, much more diffi- cult to handle owing to its sticky charac- ter when in the least degree warm or softened in the making, keeping, or handling. Confectioners vary in their modes of spinning Sugar. The following has been practised for many years : Tie two forks together back to back (see Fig. 704), and dip them in a bowl of Sugar boiled to crack. Work them quickly backwards and forwards and fine threads of Sugar will fly from them. To collect these threads as they fall, lay the bowl of a wooden spoon on the table so that the handle projects over the edge of the table ; place a heavy weight on the bowl of the spoon (see Fig. 705), and with the boiler of Sugar in one hand and the two-fork -arrangement in the other the threads may be readily spun backwards and for- wards over the spoon handle, which will then receive and hold them, enabling the confectioner .to collect them into bundles for further working—making tufts and other pretty ornaments for his Avork. _ A famous chef named Alphonse Landry invented a Sugar-spinner (see Fig. 706) which is worthy of special mention. It consists of a wedge-shaped box with a sliding lid to which the handle is affixed. The thin edge of the wedge is fitted with several grooved tongues guarding Fig. 704. Forks tied for Sugar-spinning. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. openings communicating with the interior of the box. The hot Sugar is poured into the box, and the lid quickly adjusted and secured. The Sugar in fine streams runs out of the opening along the grooved tongues,* and by a rapid backward and forward swing of the box fine threads are spun at the same time over a spoon-handle or stick, fixed as described above. In the illustration the machine is shoAvn empty, and at work. Where a quantity of spun Sugar is wanted for any purpose Mr. Landry’s machine would be exceptionally useful; in the ordinary way the tAvo forks will be found to answer every purpose, and some confectioners prefer to use only one fork in their spinning. Fig. 705. AVeigiit on Spoon for Sugar-spinning. Fig. 706. Sugar-Spinning. Sugar-piping occupies attention next, and although left to the last it is by no means the least—rather the greatest of all ornamental Sugar-Avorking jirocesses. Every confectioner professes Sugar-piping, and some are cei’tainly more proficient than others in an art in which all should excel, or they are not practical confectioners.