TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 554 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tec., referred to, see under their special heads. Syllabub—continued. some nutmeg over it, and keep the bowl in a cool place for one night. (4) Grate the rinds of two lemons in a basin, squeeze in the juice of three, add 1 pint of cream, caster sugar to taste, and not quite 1 breakfast-cupful of sherry. Whisk the above mixture to a still' froth, turn it into glasses, and serve. Lemon Syllabub.—Grate the peel of two lemons into a large bowl, add the strained juice of the lemons, jib. of sugar, 1 pint of white wine, and lastly 1 pint of cream. Let all these stand in the bowl for three or four hours, then whisk it well, and carefully lift the froth off as it forms on the top, and lay it on a sieve. Pour that part of the mixture which remains in the basin into glasses and pile some of the froth on each. This lemon Syllabub will keep for four or even five days. London Syllabub.—Stir 2oz. of loaf sugar in 1J pints of sherry till dissolved, then mix with it 2qts. of milk, and serve. Old English Syllabub.—Mix together in a china punch-bowl h pint each of port and sherry and J pint of brandy. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and milk the cow if possible into the bowl to three parts fill it. Leave the Syllabub for half-an-hour, then pile it high with clotted cream. Dust a small quantity of grated nutmeg over the top, and serve. Solid Syllabubs.—(1) Sweeten § pint of cream with caster sugar to taste, and flavour it with the juice of a lemon and a little wine or brandy. Put loz. of isinglass into a sauce- pan with a small piece of lemon-peel and 4 pint of water. Boil it slowly till the isinglass is dissolved, then mix it in with the other ingredients and stir them well for a few minutes. Strain the above mixture through a fine hair sieve, pour it into moulds, and leave till cold and stiff. Turn the Syllabubs out of the moulds on to a glass dish (see Fig. 731), and serve. (2) Mix together 1 gill of white wine, 1 gill of Burgundy or other rich wine, the strained juice of one and the grated rinds of two lemons; sweeten it well, and add Iqt. of cream. Whisk it with an egg-whisk for an hour, then put it into glasses and serve. In cold weather it will keep nearly a week. Americans make this with Catawba wine. Solid Syllabub for Trifle.—Mix with 1 pint of thick cream 1 wineglassful of raisin wine, £ wineglassful of brandy, and the juice of one lemon. B.ub wo or three lumps of sugar over tiie peel of the lemon, put it into the mixture, adding more sugar to suveeten it to taste. Whip it to a stiff froth; it is then ready for the trifle. Somerset Syllabub.—Put 1 pint each of port and sherry into a bowl with jib. of sugar, then milk about 3 pints of milk from the cow into it. In half-an-hour’s time pour 1 pint of clotted cream on the top of the Syllabub, flavour it with grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, cover it thickly with comfits, and serve. Staffordshire Syllabub.—(1) Put 1 pint of cider and 1 wine- glassful of brandy into a large bowl, sweeten to taste, and grate a little nutmeg into it; then either milk from the cow or pour warm milk into it slowly from a jug held very high over the bowl, and serve. (2) Mix together in a china punch-bowl \ pint each of cider and claret and J pint of brandy, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and mix a small quantity of nutmeg with Syllabub—continued. it. Milk the cow into the bowl until it is full. If not convenient to draw milk straight from the cow warm a sufficient quantity to fill the bowl, turn it into a teapot or a similar vessel with a spout, then pour it slowly into the bowl from a great height, and serve while the milk is still frothed. Whip Syllabub.—(1) Put 1 pint of cream in a basin with 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, 2 wineglassfuls of brandy, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice; sweeten to taste with Fig. 732. Whip Syllabub. caster sugar, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Then, mix § breakfast-cupful of milk with the cream and whisk it again. Serve the Syllabub in glasses (see Fig. 732.) (2) Put in a large basin Jib. of caster sugar, a little finely-grated lemon-peel, the juice of one lemon, 1 wine- glassful each of brandy and sweet wine, and 1 h pints of cream. Whisk the above mixture well, taking off. the froth as it rises with a skimmer and putting it on a sieve; continue the whipping till sufficient froth is obtained, then set the sieve in a cold place and leave it for a few hours. Mix together 1 pint of cream, 4 pint of wine, 1 wineglass- ful of pale brandy, the juice of one lemon, 6oz. of caster sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. When well mixed, nearly fill some custard-glasses with the Syllabub, put 1 table-spoonful of the whipped froth on each, then serve. SYPHONS.—Bottles for holding aerated waters, having an automatic action (see Fig. 733). They are ex- ceedingly useful when only small quantities of an aerated water are wanted. SYRA.—A sour drink prepared from milk-whey in Iceland and Norway. SYRACUSE WINE.—A Sicilian wine somewhat resembling Chablis. SYRUP (Fr. Sirop ; Ger. Syrup; Ital. Siroppo; Sp. Xarabe).— This word is probably derived from the Arabic Sharab—a drink. In this country we have two meanings for the same word; one is a saturated solution of sugar in water, and the other the juices of fruits boiled with sugar. Of the first named this article treats chiefly, fruit syrups appearing under the headings of the fruits which give to them their distinctive characters. The very best sugar only should be used for making Syrup, and as little heat used as is consistent with the proper dissolving of the sugar. Taking water as the unit, the proportion of sugar to water may vary from the unit until such a degree is reached that the water cannot possibly take up or hold any more sugar. Starting from the unit, the degrees are divided by the use of a saccharo- meter or hydrometer, as it is sometimes called, which gives the intermediary degrees. To produce a strong simple Syrup, about 21b. of loaf sugar should be dissolved in 1 pint of water. Fig. 733. Syphon.