THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 435 Shads—continued. until thoroughly mixed. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, which shape as nearly as possible like miniature Shad’s Roes; dip them in well-beaten eggs, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire till blue smoke arises, then put in the croquettes and fry them for two or three minutes, or until they are lightly browned. When cooked Fig. 553. Shad’s-Rof, Croquettes. take the croquettes out of the fat with a slice and put them on a piece of paper to drain. Put an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 553), and serve. Shad’s-Roe Salad.—Boil three Shad’s Roes in salted water for twenty minutes; when cooked drain them and leave till cold. Cut the cold roes into thin slices, put them in a deep dish with some salt, pepper, vinegar, and lemon juice, and let them macerate for two or three hours in a cold place. Well wash one or two lettuces, put a border of the leaves round the dish, and cut the remainder into small pieces, which place in the centre of the dish. Arrange the slices of roe on the top, and pour over them 1 breakfast-cupful of French or mayonnaise dressing; sprinkle over some chopped pickled beetroot, put a thin slice of lemon on each leaf of lettuce, and serve. Stewed Shad’s Roe.—Wash some roes and dry them well with a soft cloth. Have 1 pint of boiling water on the fire with a little salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar in it, put the roes into this, and let them boil very gently for five minutes, then take them out anil put them immediately into very cold.water in which a little salt has been dissolved; let them remain in this for two minutes, take them out, and put them in a jar with sufficient warmed butter to half cover them; cover the jar well, put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it stew gently for ten minutes. In the meantime, for the sauce, blend 2 teaspoonfuls of cornflour in a little cold water, pour over and mix smoothly with it 4 pint of boiling water, put it in a stewpan over the fire and stir till it thickens well, then add loz. of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste; when these are well mixed in add the strained juice of half a lemon, and either 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce or 1 teaspoonful of ketchup; draw it from the fire, and place it where it will only just simmer. Next putin the roes and let them remain for eight minutes, then take them out, lay them on a hot dish, add to the sauce the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it well over the fire for two minutes, pour it over the roes, and serve. SHADDOCKS (Fr. Pamplemousses).—The fruit (see Fig. 554) of a tree of that name (Citrus decumana), so called after a Captain Shaddock, who introduced it from China into the West Indies. Some varieties, called Pompoleons, grow to a great size, often weighing from 101b. to 201b. The smaller kind are known as the “for- bidden fruit,” and resemble large oranges, with a smooth, thin, pale yellow rind. The pulp is either white or reddish, of a pleasant sub-acid flavour. Dried Shaddock.—(1) Cut the fruit into six or eight pieces lengthwise, pick out the pips, put the fruit into a sauce- pan with plenty of water, and boil until it becomes soft. Put the pieces on a sieve and drain them well, then put them into a pan with some syrup at 28deg., and let them simmer for ten minutes. Turn the fruit with the syrup into a basin and leave them. On the following Shaddocks—continued. day strain the syrup oft' the fruit, boil it up again, and pour it over the fruit; repeat this operation on the three following days. On the fourth day, arrange the pieces of fruit on a wire tray and place tliem in the screen to dry. Dip the pieces of fruit in some semi-grained sugar, arrange them a short distance from each other on the tray, and put them again in the screen. When quite dry, lift the fruit from the tray by pushing the fingers through underneath, for by doing it in this way it is not so likely to break the sugar. Pack the fruit for keeping between layers of paper in cardboard boxes. (2) Peel the fruit, divide the sections from one another, and take them one at a time and break them open, hold- ing them by the ends. Tear the pulp in small pieces out of its white envelope, being careful to completely free the pulp from this, as it is very bitter; put the pulp into a deep dish, sprinkle over it plenty of finely-powdered white sugar, and let it stand all night in a cool place. It is a very good dish for breakfast, being extremely wholesome. Fig. 554. Shaddock. Shaddock Jam.—Cut the fruit into halves, and squeeze the juice into a basin; then put the rinds, having first removed the pips, into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them till soft; then drain and steep them in cold water for several hours. Next drain all the water off the rinds, scrape the insides to remove all the white pith, and cut them into fine shreds. For each pound of fruit put into a pan 111), of sugar, and boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar boiling) ; then put in the shred peel and the juice strained through a fine hair sieve. Boil the fruit for twenty minutes, stirring it all the time, and then turn it into jars. When the jam is cold, dip some round pieces of paper, cut to the size of the jars, in brandy, put them over the fruit, then cover each jar with parchment, and tie them down. SHALLOTS or ESCHALOTS (Fr. Eschalotes; Ger. Eschallotten). In French cookery the Shallot (Allium ascalonicum) is considered almost invaluable, but in England it is somewhat disregarded, although there can be no doubt that it possesses a delicacy of flavour which none other of the onion tribe can boast. Several varieties of the Shallot are mentioned by some writers, but these are supposed to be conditional differences, with the exception of the Jersey or Russian Shallot (see Fig. 555), which is red and smooth like a tulip bulb, and the common Shallot (see Fig. 556), which grows almost every- where in cloves like garlic. Another name for these is Scallions. When taken from the ground Shallots should be put in a net and hung up near the ceiling of the scullery or For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i'c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 f 2