515 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 L Stoves and Ranges—continued. particular process, or whether a Stove can be constructed so that all the processes can be conducted upon it at one time, or independently. The old-fashioned open Stove, with boiler and oven attached, permitted the carrying-out of more processes at once than any other, such as roasting, baking, boiling, stewing, frying, and at the same time keeping up a supply of hot water for any other purpose re- quired. But for the perfection of modern cooking some- thing further is required in the way of a hot plate, upon which the contents of saucepans and other vessels can be kept simmering or fast boiling at the cook’s discretion; and this is met with in the close-fire Range, or kitchener as it is called, probably after the celebrated physician of that name, who made himself so famous in the days when scientific cookery was none too well understood. The evils of the open Range may be described as very great; the vessels used being exposed to the open fire become dirty with soot, there is a great loss of heat, and the kitchen itself gets more than a fair share, necessitat- ing the use of a screen, such as by our improved methods would only be required for a roasting-grate. Then, again, it is difficult on an open Range to modify the heat according to certain requirements, and the chimney wants sweeping frequently. The principle of the modern close Range, or kitchener, is shown in the accompanying illustration (see Pig. 665). The fuel is contained in the small furnace (a), and the heat can be so directed that it may either affect the boiler (b) or the oven (c), by opening or closing the dampers (ddd)—metal plates that slide in and out to shut off or open the Hues. When heat is not required for either the boiler or the oven, it can be directed up the chimney. In the sectional illustration (see Fig. 666) the direction of the heat is shown, and by this it will be seen that the oven (c) is completely enveloped by the heat over all sides, excepting the front where the door is situated. The boiler (b) is almost wholly enveloped. The smoke-laden heat-streams, divided into three, ascend through the Stove to the chimney by the routes indicated (ddd). The hot-plate (e), fitted with convenient lids, receives the stream as it leaves the fire, and the heat under it is regulated by the oven-damper. This arrangement for heating the oven is known as the Leamington. The fines are cleaned by means of a long wire brush (see Pig. 667), not unlike a monster bottle-brush, about 4in. in diameter at the hair, with a 3ft. 6in. or 4ft. handle, which is passed into the flues through apertures in the front (see Pig. 665, ffff) provided for the purpose, and closed with Stoves and Ranges—continued. removable doors. The sides of the oven and boiler are cleaned through traps in the hot plate, and the soot is raked out by a piece of iron bent at right angles to form a Fig. 667. Wire Brush for Cleaning Flues. scraper (see Fig. 668) from the lower doors (see Fig. 665, ff). Upon the principle described most of the present kitchen Ranges are founded, there being numerous modifications and improvements which cannot be explained and described Fig. 668. Soot-remover. in detail. A glance through the numerous catalogues of various Stove and Range manufacturers will give more information than it would be possible to supply in an Encyclopaedic article. STRADELLA.—A wine prepared in Lombardy. STRAINERS AND STRAINING-.—See Colan- ders, Sieves, &c. STRASBOURG PIES.—See Goose’s Fat Liver (Pate de Foies Gras). STRAWBERRIES (Ft. Fraises; Ger. Erdbeeren; Ital. Fragole; Sp. Fresas).—“ Physicians concur in placing Strawberries in their small catalogue of pleasant remedies. They dissolve the tartarous incrustations of the teeth (so does the acid juice of any other fruit). They promote perspiration. Persons afflicted with gout have found relief from using them; so have patients in cases of the stone ; and Hoffman states that he has known consump- tive people cured by them.”—Abercrombie. It needed not the foregoing eulogy to excite an interest in one of the most delicious fruits grown in this or any other country. The botanical name for the genus is Fragaria (Old Latin Fraga, from the same root as fragrans), so-called on account of the delicate perfume that pervades the fruit of them all. The name Strawberry is said to have been given to the plant because of the practice followed by gardeners of laying straw round the plants to prevent the fruit getting soiled in wet or dusty weather. Another suggestion is that the name should be strewed or strawed berry, in allusion to their peculiar mode of growing all over the ground. There are several kinds of Strawberries, to which belong the Wood or Wild Strawberry, which bears a very small but well-flavoured fruit (see Fig. 669). They are very common in the hedges and woods of many parts of England. In Lindley’s “Treasury of Botany” we are informed that previous to 1629, the date assigned to the introduction of the Scarlet Strawberry from Virginia, the Wood Strawberry must have been the sort generally for sale in this country. “ Straw- berry ripe,” together with “ Gode Peascode ” and “ Cherrys in the ryse ” were mentioned as some of the London cries by Lidgate in a poem which he wrote probably more than 400 years ago (he died in 1483). Peas must have been cultivated for sale; Strawberries may have been partially so, or they may have been chiefly gathered for the purpose when found growing in their wild state. But Hollinshed mentions the fact that Gloucester asked Fig. 669. Wild Straw- berry. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tic., referred to, see under their special heads. o