653 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. meat or veal forcemeat, whichever is used for the stuffing, into small balls, and fry them till nicely browned in boiling fat. Also prepare some bread sauce and rich brown gravy. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish with paper frills on the leg-bones, pour the gravy over it, garnish it with the balls (see Fig. 900), and serve with the bread sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Prepare a stuffing of the giblets blanched and cleaned, a little of the liver, and some ham and truffles; put all when minced into a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich stock, 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of red wine, and a seasoning of thyme, bay-leaf, sweet herbs, and various spices. Cook these slowly over a moderate lire for forty- five minutes, then turn the whole out of the pan, and let it get quite cold. Stuff' the bird with this, fasten it up, truss it, and let it hang for two or three days. Lard the breast with fine lardoons, put it on a spit, cover the breast with well-buttered paper, and roast it in the oven or before the fire. Take off the paper when the bird is nearly done. When ready, place the bird on a hot dish, and serve with truffle sauce. Roasted Turkey a la Financiere.—Prepare the bird as for roasting; season the interior with l teaspoonful of finely- chopped thyme and parsley, and a small quantity of powdered mace, pepper, and salt. Stuff the bird with veal forcemeat, make an incision down each side of the breast, and fill them with washed and sliced green truffles. Put the bird in a deep dish, dust a small quantity of cayenne jiepper over it, and let it soak in wine for twelve hours. At the end of that time, fasten a sheet of buttered paper over the bird, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire from an-hour and a-half to two hours, according to the size of the bird. Baste it with the wine in which it marinaded till half cooked, then continue basting it with butter. Put the remainder of the wine in a saucepan with 1 break fast-cupful of rich brown gravy, 1 table-spoonful of Indian soy, and the strained juice of one lemon, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering gently for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the Turkey up, remove the buttered paper, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Roasted Turkey with Cranberry Sauce.—Small fat hen Turkeys are the best for roasting, as the largest Turkeys are tough unless boiled beforehand. Singe and draw the bird, truss it with the legs in the body and the wings bent under the back, and fix it on a spit; put in the dripping-pan under- neath 1 table-spoonful of salt, some trimmings of beef, and some dripping, and roast the Turkey in front of a clear lire, basting it constantly with the contents of the dripping-pan. When beginning to brown, cover the Turkey with a sheet of buttered paper to prevent it blistering. Boil the heart and gizzard in water; when cooked, drain them, and cut them into small squares. Wash 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cranberries, put them in a saucepan with h pint of water and 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and cook for half an-hour. When soft, mash the berries with a spoon. Take the Turkey up when cooked; skim the fat off the gravy, stand the pan on the fire, pour in 1 breakfast cupful of hot water, and let it boil to dissolve the brown glaze adhering to the pan. Mix 1 table spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in the gravy, and stir it over the fire till thick; then strain it and mix with it the gizzard and heart. Put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of the gravy over it, and serve it with the remainder in a sauceboat, and a sauceboatful of the cranberry sauce. Roasted Turkey Garnished with Black Olives.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey, and stuff it with pickled black olives that have not been stoned. Sew up the open ings of the Turkey, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When cooked, remove the bacon from the Turkey, and brown it for a few minutes in front of the fire; then put it on a hot dish, garnish round with the bacon, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Roasted Turkey Garnished with Watercress.—Stuff and truss the Turkey, lard it with bacon, fix on a spit, and Turkeys—continued. roast it in front of a clear fire for thirty or forty minutes, according to the size, basting it well with butter. It should be kept rather underdone. When cooked, dredge some salt over the Turkey, remove it from the spit, and put it on a hot dish. Strain the gravy in the dripping-pan over the bird, and serve it with a dish of watercress that has been seasoned with salt and vinegar. Roasted Turkey in Hamburg Style.—Chop very line lib. of lean beef, fib. of beef-suet, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs; then mix them all together, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and bind together with three eggs. Prepare the Turkey, stuff it, truss it for roasting, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit or roasting-jack, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently with butter. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the bird, dredge it over with flour and salt, baste it well with butter, and brown it. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of celery sauce round it, and serve with celery sauce and bread sauce in separate sauceboats. Roasted Turkey Poult.—In the late spring and summer Turkey poults are preferable to the larger and older birds. They may be used as soon as they grow plump and well fleshed. Prepare a Turkey poult for roasting by carefully removing the feathers, then singeing and wiping it with a wet towel; and draw it without breaking the intestines. Thoroughly wash a fresh calf’s tongue, or as many sheep’s tongues as the Turkey will hold, put them inside the Turkey after seasoning it with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a dust of cayenne, and then sew up and truss the bird. Put it before an open fire, and quickly brown it on all sides, turning it frequently. When brown, season it with salt and pepper, basting it with the drippings which flow from it. A Turkey poult of 41b. or oil), will roast in about an hour. At the end of three quarters of an-hour, run a sharp thin knife-blade into the flesh, at the joint where the leg is united to the body, and examine the juice that flows; if it be brownish in colour, the poult is sufficiently cooked, but if the juice be red, the bird is not done. When the poult is nearly done, change the dripping- pan under it; pour nearly all the drippings out of the pan, set it over the fire, stir in a piled table-spoonful of flour, and continue to stir until the flour is brown; then gradually add 1 pint of boiling water, stirring the gravy thus formed until it boils and is quite smooth. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and it is ready for use. When the Turkey poult is done, remove the trussing cords or skewers, and serve it with the gravy. The tongue is carved and served with the poult. Any green salad or fresh tomatoes make a good garnish for the dish. A salad of four oranges, sliced, and dressed with salad-oil and a little cayenne, is exceedingly good with any roast. Roasted Turkey with Sausage-and-Chestnut Stuffing. —Carefully draw a young Turkey that has hung for a short time, wipe the inside with a cloth, and stuff it with sausages and some large chestnuts that have been partly roasted and peeled ; cut the neck off, leaving the skin as long as possible, then stuff the crop with sausages, and sew the skin on to the back; sew up the other opening of the Turkey, truss it, singe it on the breast to set the skin, and lard it with bacon. Fix the bird on a spit, first wrapping it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it continually with butter. Ten minutes before removing the bird from the fire, take the paper off and brown it, seasoning with a little salt. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish; strain the gravy in the dripping-pan, skim oil' the fat, mix a little glaze with it, boil it quickly for two or three minutes, pour it over the bird, and serve. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Bacon and Truffles.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey. Wash and peel 1 Alb. of truffles, chop them, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Chop and pound an equal quantity of fat bacon, and mix it with the truffles. Stuff the bird with the mixture, cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit or roasting-jack, anil roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it frequently with butter.