574 THE ENCYCLOFMDTA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Tarts and Tartlets—continued. and bake in a slack oven. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold (see Fig. 762). These are more correctly puff's, or pufflets if such a word were used. TARTINES.—Literally this is the French for slices of bread-and-butter, of which, as may be supposed, several varieties are known, according to the nature of the bread, and additional matter spread over them. Several of them will be found described under various headings. The following are great favourites: Munster Tartines.—Cut some slices about 1th inch in thickness from a loaf of brown Westphalian bread (Pumper- nickel), and the same from a household loaf of white bread, and cut them into rectangular shapes about 3in. in width. Spread a piece of the brown bread well with butter, cover over with a piece of white bread, cover this again with butter, and put another piece of brown bread on the top. Press them slightly together, cut them into squares or oblong- shapes, and they are ready to be served. They are very good served with tea, and caster sugar may be dusted over the layers of butter. TARTLETS.—See Takts and Tartlets. TASTE.—This head might apply to a faculty quite distinct from the appreciation of flavours, such as Taste in decoration and dress, but in this case it is only necessary to refer to that which the French term gout. Other senses, such as smell and sight, work in harmony, and may therefore claim a proportionate consideration under this heading, although under Appearances one part has been already treated. Kettner assures us that Taste is separated from the other senses by a curious difference. The others flourish by themselves alone, and often attain their highest perfec- tion when deprived of companionship. Hearing will become more accurate with the loss of sight, and touch more sensitive with deafness. But the Taste is made for marriage, and smell is its better half. It loses all its delicacy when it cannot mate with a fine olfactory nerve. Though thus deficient, it is by common consent chosen as the type of all that is most refined in human enjoyment, the worship of the beautiful. This is a feather in the cook’s cap. It is the business of his life to minister to the sense of Taste, and Taste is at once so fine and so perfect that it is selected from all the senses to designate the standard of art and the power of detecting all that is loveliest in heaven and earth. We have one and the same name for the facility which comprehends a sucking-pig and for that which delights in Beethoven, for the appreciation alike of a Strasbourg pie and of the Elgin marbles. The Greeks gave the same name to Taste, or the palate, and heaven, and that name is “ Uranus.” Tastes differ in persons, and greatly; some will almost swear by the flavour of garlic, whereas another cannot sit in a room when the slightest suspicion of it is about. Kettner amusingly observes of this difference, “ Philoso- phers have never adequately explained, and it will probably remain a mystery to the end of time, how it comes that, as in religion, the wider differences of dogma seldom excite wrath, while the earth is devastated by controver- sies about the smallest details. That an Eskimo should eat tallow candles; that the Dutch should eat their pickled herring raw; that the astronomer Salande should enjoy the nutty taste of spiders; that the Australian savage should stock his larder with his dog and his wife; that widows in the Adaman Islands should have the skulls of their late husbands nicely mounted, wear them dangling round their necks, and use them as an English lady uses her bag, are matters of Taste that do not rouse in us a tenth part of the emotion produced by the suspicion of garlic in a puree, by the use of a spoon instead of a fork, steel instead of silver.” To understand the full signification of this sense of Taste, which plays so important a part in the cook’s prac- Taste—co ntinued. tice, we must go to a refined epicure, or gourmet, and study his experiences and practices philosophically. The greatest modern writer on the subject is Brillat Savarin, from whose book, entitled “ Physiologie du Gout,” the following paragraphs have been translated : “Power op Taste.—We have seen that physical love has invaded all the sciences; it acts in this with the tyranny that characterises it always. Taste—a more prudent faculty, more measured, although not less active—has arrived at the same goal with a deliberation which assures the duration of its success. “We will occupy ourselves elsewhere in considering its progress, but here we will observe that he who has sat down to a sumptuous repast, in a room decorated with mirrors, pictures, sculptures, and flowers; the air laden with sweet perfumes, the company enriched with the pre- sence of beautiful women, and the chamber filled with soft strains of beautiful music; that man, we say, would not require a very great effort to convince himself that all the sciences have been taxed to increase and conveniently con- centrate the delights of Taste. “Deprivation of the Faculty of Taste.—Taste is that sense which we place in contact with sapid bodies, by means of the sensation which it causes to the organ destined to appreciate the same. Taste, which is excited by appetite, hunger, and thirst, is the base of several processes which result in the individual increasing, developing, preserving, and repairing losses caused by vital activity. “ All organised bodies do not nourish themselves in the same way. The Creator, variable in His means and results, has devised several modes of conservation. The vegetable kingdom, which is at the lowest rung of the ladder of living things, nourishes itself by roots, which planted in their native soil, select, by the working of a peculiar mechanism, the different materials which contribute to their growth and maintenance. Go a stage higher, and we find bodies endowed with animal life, but without the power of loco- motion. They are born in a locality which favours their existence, and special organs extract from the surroundings all that is necessary to support that term of life that has been appointed to them. They cannot go and seek their nourishment, but the nourishment must be brought to them. Another method of feeding is provided for the conservation of animals which move about over the face of the universe, and of which mankind is the most perfect. A kind of instinct warns him that he wants repairing; he fetches it; he selects those materials which are suitable for his requirements ; he eats ; he is invigorated, and then continues the course of life assigned to him. “ Taste can be treated under three headings. Physically, it is the organ by which man appreciates savours. Morally, it is the sensation which excites, in the common centre, the organ affected by ’savoury bodies. Materially, Taste is the faculty which has the power of affecting an organ and raising the appropriate sensation. “ Taste appears to have two principal uses. 1st. It in- vites us, by pleasurable sensations, to repair the continual losses that active life entails. 2nd. It assists us to select, from amongst the different materials that Nature provides, those which are suitable for food. In this choice, Taste is assisted by the sense of smell, as we shall see later on ; for it can be clearly shown that nutritious substances are not repulsive either to taste or smell. “ Mechanism of Taste.—It is not easy to define pre- cisely of what the organ of Taste consists. It is more complicated than it at first appears to be. It is quite cer- tain that the tongue plays an important part in the mechanism of tasting, for, when possessed of sufficient muscular power, it seems to mix, turn about, press, and swallow the foods brought into contact with it in the mouth. Moreover, by means of numerous papillae by which it is strewed, it impregnates itself with the tasty and soluble particles of the bodies with which it comes into contact. But this is not sufficient; for several other parts in the