502 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Spinach—continued. put it into a cloth, and squeeze out as much juice as possible. Turn it into a glass bottle, set this in a saucepan with several thicknesses of brown paper under it, to pre- vent the bottle breaking, pour in cold water to about half the height of the bottle, and make the Spinach juice quite hot. Take out the bottle, cork it when cold, and set it aside. Spinach colouring prepared in this way will not keep very long. A cheese-cloth should be used for straining it if possible. Fig. 638. Spinach in German Style. (3) Wash 1 peck of Spinach in several waters, and put it while wet into a mortar. Pound the Spinach well, then put it into a coarse towel, and wring out all the juice into an untinned copper pan. Two persons can perform this opera- tion better than one. Stir the juice over the fire till it begins to thicken and curdle, then turn it on to a fine hair sieve, and leave it to drain. Scrape the thick part off the sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of sugar, 1 pinch of powdered alum, and J wineglassful of spirits of wine. Put the greening mixture into a glass-stoppered bottle, and keep it in a cool dark place. (4) Put a quantity of freshly-gathered Spinach in a mortar, and pound it well; then turn it on to a cloth and twisting it round squeeze out all the juice into a basin. To every pint of juice mix jib. of loaf sugar, stand it in a double boiler or bain-marie, and leave until reduced to half its original quantity. Leave the greening until cold, then put it into small bottles, and cork them down. Spinach Omelet.—(1) Thoroughly Awash jib. of Spinach, drain it, and chop it up; then mix \\ ith it an equal quantity of chopped beetroot, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, chopped leeks, and dried Hour, 2 table-spoonfuls of Avarmed butter, four Avell-beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of milk. Season the Avliole Avith pepper, salt, and lemon thyme, and stir them till thoroughly mixed. Put the mix- ture into a buttered baking dish, and bake in a moderate oven for tAventy minutes. When cooked, turn the omelet out on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick over the Spinach carefully, Avasli it in plenty of AA'ater, then plunge it into a saucepan of boiling salted Avater, and boil for two minutes. Turn the Spinach on to a colander, pour some cold AA’ater over it, and then press it AAell to squeeze out the Avater. Put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, and melt it ; chop and put in the Spinach, dredge it OArer Avith 1 table-spoonful of flour, salt, and pepper to taste, moisten slightly Avith milk, and let it boil gently, stirring occasionally. In about half-an- hour, draAv the steAvpan to the edge of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks of tAvo eggs, and stir at the side of the fire for a feAv minutes longer, but it should not boil after the eggs are added. Meanwhile, prepare a plain omelet, turn it on to a hot dish, pile the Spinach on the top, and serve. Spinach Ravioli.—Wash and boil in salted Avater for ten minutes about 4 handfuls of freshly-picked Spinach. Drain it, chop it, put it into a saucepan Avith a lump of butter, and stir over the fire till the moisture has re- duced. Mix Avith the Spinach 1 teacupful of finely-grated stale breadcrumb, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy. Stir this mixture over the fire, and let it boil for a ferv minutes longer; then move the saucepan to the side, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir till thick. Prepare and roll out flat some nouille paste. When cool, divide the Spinach mixture into pieces the size of a walnut, and place them a short distance from each other on the flat of paste. Damp the spaces with a paste-brash dipped in water, put another flat of Spinach—con tinned. the paste on the top, and press it doAvn betAveen the spaces. Cut the ravioli out AA’ith a round tin cutter, plunge them into boiling salted Avater, and boil gently for thiee or four minutes; then drain them, and arrange them in layers on a hot dish. Sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese OA er them, and pour 0A-er some tomato sauce that has been mixed AA’ith a little nut broAvn clarified butter. Serve the ravioli Avhile hot. Spinach Salad.—Pick out about lqt. of the youngest and tenderest leaves of Spinach; Avash them in several Avaters to thoroughly remove the grit, then drain and put them in a salad-bowl. Cut some spring onions into small pieces, put them in Avith the Spinach, and strew over it some finely-chopped mint-leaves. Mix some oil and vinegar together, vinegar predominating, season Avith salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. The mint- leaves can be omitted if not desired, but by many they are considered an improvement. Spinach Soup.—(1) Cut into shreds 4 handfuls of AAell- Avashed Spinach, four carrots, two turnips, tAAO heads of celery, and a small quantity of parsley and thyme ; put them in a saucepan over the fire Avith jib. of butter, and let them steAA’ till tender, then rub them through a sieve with the back of a Avooden spoon. Return the pulped vegetables to the saucepan, place it over the lire, pour in 2qts. of cold Avater Avith a seasoning of salt and pepper, and boil all together. Make some small suet dumplings not larger than a good- sized greengage, boil them, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup in over them. (2) Peel and slice three good sized onions and boil them in 4gall. of Avater. Pick and Avasli sufficient Spinach for tAAO good dishes, parboil it, and drain aAvay the bitter Avater from it in a colander; run cold Avater oArer it for a minute or two, and press it Avell out of it. Rub 3 dessert- spoonfuls of flour into 2oz. of butter, and mix it with the Spinach. Put the Spinach into the saucepan that the onions are boiling in, and let it boil Avith them for a-quarter-of-an-hour; if green peas are to be had lqt. of them may be added to the onions Avhen the parboiled Spinach is added, When they have boiled for fifteen minutes, add 1 pint of cream or neAV milk and a seasoning of salt and pepper. (3) Thoroughly Avash some Spinach-leaves, shred them, and put them into a saucepan Avith tAvo carrots, tAvo turnips, two onions, and a head of celery, all chopped; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, a small lump of butter, and 1 pint of either beef or mutton broth. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer sloAvly till the vegetables are tender. When cooked, pass all through a fine hair sieve, using a spoon to rub the vegetables through. Put the mixture into the saucepan again Avith lqt. of cold Avater, season to taste AA’itli pepper and salt, and boil the soup. Put some boiled suet dumplings into a soup-tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. (4) Wash a heap of Spinach thoroughly in plenty of Avater, first picking out all the yelloAV leaves; put it into a saucepan of boiling salted AA ater, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain the Spinach and press it as dry as possible. Pass it through a fine hair sieve into a sauce- pan, moisten it gradually with a sufficient quantity of clear nicely-flavoured stock to make the soup, and place it over the fire, until boiling. Dust in a small quantity of pepper, and add loz. of butter broken into small bits. Turn the soil]) into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread fried broAvn in butter. (5) Pick over a quantity of Spinach and Avash it thoroughly; also pick and Avasli a moderate-sized bunch of parsley and a feAv green onions; put all into a large enamelled saucepan in Avliich jib. of butter has been melted, add also a feAv green peas if in season, 3 pints of water, 1 table-spoonful of salt, j table-spoonful of caster sugar, and a small quantity of bicarbonate of soda. Boil the vegetables quickly until tender, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, stir it over the fire for a feAv minutes, then put in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, loz. of glaze, and the beaten yolks of tAvo eggs. Stir the soup near the fire for a feAv minutes