TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 525 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. 3qts. of wine vinegar, tie a thick sheet of brown paper over, and leave them for four days. Drain the vinegar off the Strawberries, turn the Strawberries out of the jar, put in 4lb. of fresh ones, and pour back the vinegar. After three days drain off the vinegar again, pour it over 41b. more fresh fruit, and leave it for another three days. Drain the vinegar, measure it, and for each pint mix in lib. of crashed loaf sugar. Stir the vinegar in a pan over the fire till the sugar has dissolved, then skim it; pour it into a large jar, cover, and leave till the follow- ing day. Bottle the vinegar and cork it down, putting the cork in loosely for the first few days. Strawberry Water-Ice.—(1) Pick ljlb. of Strawberries, put them into a basin with a little sifted crashed loaf sugar and the juice of a lemon, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into another basin, mix in 3 teacupfuls of syrup and a few drops of cochineal to colour, turn the preparation into the freezer, work it well, and it is ready for use. (2) Pass sufficient freshly-gathered Strawberries through a fine hair sieve to fill two breakfast-cups. Put the puree into a basin, mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, the strained juice of three lemons and two oranges, the grated peel of one and a half lemons and one orange, and 1 teacupful of water. Mix the above ingredi- ents well together, then pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve; place it in a freezer, and work it occasionally till frozen. Put about two or three dozen large, ripe Strawberries into a mould, sprinkle caster sugar over them, and pack the mould in pounded ice. When ready, pile the frozen ice like rocks on a folded napkin on a very cold dish, arrange the glazed Strawberries over it, and serve. (3) This is prepared as for water-ice, using lib. of Straw- berry jam, the juice of two lemons, both rubbed through a sieve, a little syrup and water, and colouring with cochineal. Tinned-Strawberry Blanc-mange.—Put 1 pint of milk into a stewpan and place it over the fire to boil. Mix \ breakfast-cupful of cornflour until smooth with a little cold water, then stir it into the boiling milk, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and continue stirring it over the fire until thick and cooked. Rinse out a mould with cold water, put a layer of well-drained tinned Strawberries at the bottom, then pour in carefully a layer of the cornflour ; cover with a layer of Strawberries, then a layer of cornflour, and so on until the mould is full. Stand it in a cold place, and leave it for an hour or so. When the blanc- mange is firm, it may be turned out of the mould on to a dish and served. Tinned-Strawberries and Cream.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of condensed milk and fresh milk with 1 breakfast- cupful of tinned Strawberries. Put a few sponge or queen cakes in a fancy dish, pour the cream over them, and serve. The cakes can be varied according to fancy. Another way is to soak some small croutons of bread in some of the juice of the fruit, drain them, crisp them in a brisk oven, leave them until cold, then put them in the dish and pour the fruit cream over. Tinned-Strawberry Jelly.—Soak loz. of gelatine in water for an hour, then strain it, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and boil it until dissolved. Mix 11 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned Strawberries and their juice in with the dissolved gelatine, and boil for two or three minutes longer. Rinse out a jelly-mould with cold water, turn the jelly into it, and set it in a cool place. When set and cold turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour well whipped and sweetened cream over it, and serve. Tinned-Strawberries and Whipped Cream.—First take off the hulls of the Strawberries and see that they are clean and sound. Arrange them in a glass or china dessert-dish, put a layer of powdered white sugar between the layers of Strawberries, and place the dish away in a cool place. Take 1 pint of cream, add to it the whites of three eggs and 4oz. of powdered white sugar, whip this mixture till it froths, then let it stand for a minute; take off the froth as it forms, and lay it on a sieve standing in a basin, so that Strawberries—continued. any cream that drains from the froth will not be wasted, then whip the cream again till it froths and take off the froth; lay it on the sieve and proceed as before, from time to time turning back into the whipping-bowl any cream Fig. 685. Tinned Strawberries and Whipped Cream. that has drained from the froth. Keep the whipped cream very cold and separate from the Strawberries until a minute before serving, when it should be lightly laid round them, piling it as high as possible (see Fig. 685). STRUDELS.—A kind of pancake or fritter made in Germany and very highly esteemed amongst all classes. Made as follows they are exceedingly nice: (1) Dissolve nearly 8oz. of butter in 1 teacupful of warm water, then mix it with lib. of Hour; add 1 pincli of salt and four well-beaten eggs, and at the last when quite smooth mix in the well-beaten white of one egg. Work the paste till very elastic, then let it remain for ten minutes in a warm temperature. Dredge some flour over a clean cloth, put the paste on it, and spread it out as thinly as possible, drawing it along with the fingers over the cloth in the shape of an oblong rectangle. Peel, core, and cut into small pieces about l|lb. of apples; put them in a basin, cover with caster sugar, and leave for twenty minutes. Strain the juice off the apples and mix with them 1 breakfast- cupful of well-washed currants, 4 table-spoonfuls of chopped sweet almonds, and | teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Spread the apple mixture thinly over the paste, then roll it up in the way that jam rolls are done; in rolling the paste should be moistened here and there with warmed butter. Butter a baking-sheet, then place the cake care- fully on it, giving it a spiral shape, not unlike that of a snail shell; brash it over with a paste-brash dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for tliree- quarters-of an hour. When cooked, dust some caster sugar over the Strudel, cut it into pieces, put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two; mix in loz. of warmed butter and a small quantity of salt. Work in gradually with the above ingredients sufficient flour to form a stiff dough, knead it well, cut it into small equal sized portions, and roll them out as thinly as possible to an oval shape. They should then be covered with a mince of meat, fruit, or preserves. Arrange them side by side on a buttered baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the Strudels have risen, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of hot milk, and bake them until lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Put the yolks of two and the whites of four eggs in a basin, beat them well, then add a piece of warmed butter about the size of an egg and 1 pinch of salt; beat in sufficient flour to form a stiff paste, knead it, roll it out very thin, and cut it into rounds about 3in. in diame- ter. Mix some ground almonds and vanilla chocolate with the yolks of two or three eggs, whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the chocolate, &c. Spread hot butter over the Strudels, and then a thin layer of the chocolate. Roll them up, lay them on a well-buttered baking- sheet a short distance from each other, sift a little grated chocolate and sugar over them, cover, and bake them in