662 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c„ referred, to, see under their special heads. Turnips—continued. minutes, leave them till cool, drain, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient broth to cook them in; season with a little salt and sugar, and boil the Turnips till they are sottish. They are then ready for garnish. Turnips Glaces.—Peal some Turnips, and cut them into the shape of small pears; put them in a saucepan with some water and a little salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Turn them on to a sieve, and leave them until thoroughly drained. Melt about loz. of butter in a saucepan, put in the Turnips, strew in plenty of caster sugar, and toss them about over the lire until they begin to colour. Moisten them with a small quantity of broth, season with salt, pepper, and a little powdered cinnamon, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, pile the Turnips on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Turnip Porridge.—Pare and cut up into slices lib. or so of Parsnips, put them on to boil in milk-and-water until tender, strain them on the back of a sieve, throw away the liquor, and nib through the Turnips. Put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, 1 table-spoonful of Hour, 1 gill of cream, and a little sugar, salt, and cayenne pepper ; add the liquor in which they were boiled, warm up, and serve. Turnip Pudding.—Peel the Turnips, ivash them, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then put in the Turnips, season them with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar, and toss them over the lire for a few minutes; then pour in some bechamel sauce, and boil them gently till tender. Pass the puree through a line hair sieve, and mix sufficient beaten egg with it to bring it to the proper consistency. Thickly spread the inside of a mould that has a well in the centre, with butter. Fill it with the Turnip mixture, and cook it in a bain-marie. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the hollow in the centre with some fancifully-cut vegetables that have been cooked in bechamel sauce, and serve it. Turnip Puree.—(1) Peel the Turnips, blanch them in boiling water, then plunge them into cold water. Put the Turnips in a saucepan with sufficient chicken broth to cook them in, and boil them gently till tender. When cooked, drain them, mix the crumb of a French roll with them and a lump of butter, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with an equal quantity of bechamel sauce, and boil it till the moisture has somewhat reduced. Pass the puree through the sieve again, mix a lump of flutter and a few table-spoonfuls of thick cream or thickened milk with it, stir it over the fire till the butter has dissolved, and it will be ready for serving. (2) Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into quarters, and boil them in salted water till tender. Drain them, press them through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix |lb. of butter and 2 table spoonfuls of cream with them, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and if liked a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the puree into a saucepan, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Peel about lib. of Turnips, and blanch them in boiling water; then drain and soak them for an hour in cold water. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed ; then pour in 1| pints of white stock, and continue stir- ring it over the fire until boiling. Drain the Turnips, put them into the stock, season with salt, pepper, and £ teaspoonful of sugar, and let them stew gently until tender. Wash 2oz. of rice and boil it in plenty of water until tender. When the Turnips are cooked, pass them through a fine wire sieve, return them to the saucepan with \ pint more stock, and stir them over the fire until boiling again. When the rice is soft, drain it thoroughly, then turn it into a tureen; mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the puree, pour it over the rice, and serve at once. Turnip-and-Rice Soup.—Peel and wash some Turnips, and put them in a saucepan with some washed rice, using Turnips—continued. more Turnip than rice. Put in a lump of butter and sufficient water to cook them in, and let them simmer gently until tender. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix in some milk, and season with pepper and salt; stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, and let it simmer for about fifteen minutes; then stir in a lump of butter and \ pint of cream. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Turnip Salad.—Peel and wash the Turnips, and put them in a saucepan in which a piece of bacon has boiled for several hours and the amount of water has been reduced. Put the bacon back on the Turnips and boil them till tender. When cooked, mash the Turnips, and put them on a hot dish. Skim the fat oil the liquor, pour it over the salad, lay on it four poached eggs (see Fig. 909), and serve while very hot. Turnip Sauce.—Peel and wash Hlb. of Turnips, cut them into quarters if old, but if young they can be left whole. Boil them in water till tender, then drain them and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Put 3oz. of butter and h table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of milk. Stir the milk till it boils, then put in the Turnips, season with 1 saltspoonful of salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and continue stirring the sauce over the fire for three or four minutes. Turn the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve it with whatever dish it was intended for. Turnip Soup.—(1) Peel some Turnips, cut them into little balls with a vegetable.cutter, and blanch them in boiling water for live minutes. Put a chopped onion and leek into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the lire till lightly browned; then sprinkle in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir in gradually 3qts. of broth. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, add the Turnips and some trimmings of raw ham, and let it simmer till the Turnips are tender. When cooked, strain the liquor oft the Turnips and drain them on a cloth. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan. Sprinkle a little caster sugai ovei the Turnips, and fry them in a little butter till lightly browned. Drain all the fat off the Turnips, put them into the soup, and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it. (2) Boil some Turnips till tender, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix a lump of butter with the puree, and season it with pepper and salt. Put 1 teacupful of sago in a saucepan with 4 pints of clear stock, and boil it "till the sago is cooked ; then stir in the Turnips, and let them simmer for a few minutes. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (3) Put the bone and trimmings of a knuckle ot veal into a saucepan with one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and 3qts. of water; put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer gently foi six hours. Stir in the liquor, leave till cool, then skim oft the fat, and pour it from the sediment at the bottom into a saucepan. Peel and wash six Turnips, cut them into small squares, put them into the saucepan with the soup, season with pepper and salt, and let it boil gently for half an-hour, adding in twenty minutes’ time a small french roll. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small saucepan, pour in oradually 1 pint of cream, add loz. of butter, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Stir the thickened cream into