451 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Shrimps—continued. then put in the rounds of bread, and fry them a pale golden colour. As they are fried take them out of the fat and place them |on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain. Put the Shrimps into a small saucepan with a lump of butter and fry them for a minute or two. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with \ teacupful of milk and pour it over the Shrimps, season to taste with a few drops of anchovy sauce and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir the whole over the fire until the flour is cooked. Pile the Shrimp mixture on the pieces of bread, put them on a hot dish, garnish with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve. Stewed Shrimps.—Pick lqt. of Shrimps, reserve their tails, and put the remainder into a stewpan with £ pint of water with a little vinegar and half a blade of mace in it; let them simmer at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of- an-hour, stirring them occasionally. Strain the above liquor into another saucepan, add the tails, half a grated nutmeg, a little salt, and 2oz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table-spoonfuls of Horn-, and stir them over the fire for about fifteen minutes. Toast a thin slice of bread, cut it into strips, put them at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the stew over them, garnish round with small sprigs of parsley and picked Shrimps, and serve. SHROPSHIRE PIE.—See Pies. SHRUB.—This word is evidently a corruption of the Arabic Shirb, or Shurb, and therefore akin to sherbet. It is a drink made of sugar, fruit acid, flavours, and spirits. In Jamaica it is made with rum, syrups, and oranges, and called “ Santa.” In this country it is some- times made of the juice of fruits, and receipts for making this variety are given under the headings of the fruits used. The following are a few good receipts for prepar- ing Shrub in English fashion: (1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient Seville oranges to make 1 pint, strain it into a bowl, and mix with it 21b. of crushed white sugar and 3 pints of brandy. Stir the above ingredients till the sugar has dissolved, then strain them through a silk or fine hair sieve, and bottle the Shrub for use. (2) Grate the peel of five large Seville oranges and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle with the thinly-peeled rinds of six lemons and 1 pint of rum; put a cover on the top of the bottle, and leave the contents to steep for three or four days. At the end of that time, boil 31b. of crushed loaf sugar in 3 pints of water. When a thin syrup, stand the sugar on one side till cool. Strain the rum from the peels, and put it into a bowl with 2qts. of pure ruin, the syrup and the strained juice of six lemons. When well mixed bottle the Shrub for use. (3) Mix one minim of pine-apple ether with two fluid ounces of acetic acid; then add two fluid ounces of lemon tincture, one drachm of sugar colouring, four fluid ounces of tincture of bitter orange made from the fresh peel, and pour over lgall. of simple syrup at 42deg. by the hydrometer. When well mixed, should the liquor not be perfectly clear, lilter through a jelly-bag lined with paper pulp, ami bottle. (4) Dissolve 21b. of loaf sugar in a bottle with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Seville-orange juice and three times the quantity of rum or brandy. Strain the liquor through a cloth or jelly-bag, bottle, and use as required. SIBERIAN CRABS.—Small apples (see Fig. 574), about the size of cherries, which grow on a tree (Pyrus prunifolia) originally imported from Siberia. They are sometimes found growing in our shrubberies, and are very nice, and make a pretty garnish preserved as follows: (1) Put into a preserving-pan 2lb. of loaf sugar, the peel of half a lemon, or a small whole one, and lqt. of water, and boil the mixture till it becomes a thin syrup. Prick some red crab apples with a needle, leaving their stalks on, and put them into the syrup. When the skins begin to crack, lift the apples carefully out, drain, and lay them on a dish. Put another Jib. of loaf sugar in Siberian Crabs—continued. the syrup and boil it up again, then remove it from the fire and leave till cool. Put the apples into wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour the syrup over them, and tie the bottles tightly over with paper. Apples preserved as above will keep some time. Fig. 574. Siberian Crabs. (2) Weigh some crab apples and allow an equal weight of finely-powdered sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving- pan, with a small quantity of apple syrup and the juice of one lemon for each pound of sugar; stir with a wooden spoon until dissolved, then boil and skim until clear. Prick the apples, put them into the syrup, move the pan to the side of the fire, and boil gently until they are tender, which may be ascertained by running a straw through them. Put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, seeing that they are well covered with it, and tie over with stout paper. Dried Siberian Crabs.—Pierce a number of holes in each crab apple, put them into jars, and bake in a moderate oven until tender. When ready, dust them over with plenty of caster sugar, lay them on a sheet of paper with the stalks upwards, and dry them in a cool oven. Repeat the opera- tion of dipping them in sugar and drying them two or three times more, then move them to a very warm place until thoroughly dried, when they will be ready for serving. SICILIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. SIDE-BOARDS.—Articles of furniture usually found in English dining-rooms. They are useful to hold various articles of table service, and to display fruits and viands. When backed with mirror-glass the effect is very striking. See Buffets. SIEVES.—Several kinds of Sieves are used by cooks; some are coarse, made of wire or cane, and others fine, made of hair or silk, much depending upon the use for which it is destined. French cooks call them tamis. SILLABUB.—See Syllabub. SILLERY.—A kind of non-sparkling champagne, of an amber colour, and possessing a very fine bouquet. SILVER CAKE.—See Cakes SILVERSIDES.—The name given to a fish of the Atherinidse family. They are commonly found along the coasts of America. The flesh is very delicate and spoils if not cooked soon after catching. For suitable receipts see Smelts. SIMGO.—A native African drink made from the sap of the Sagus. It is very strong, dark coloured, and ' excessively intoxicating. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 G o