TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 621 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. coated. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling lard, plunge the fish in, and fry until done, which will take from five to ten minutes according to the size of the fish. Take it out, drain it well, place it on a dish, with slices of lemon put over it, and serve with a border of potatoes. (4) Scale and clean two or three Trout, slit them down the back, and take out the bone. Cut them up into rather small pieces, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, cover them well with flour, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them for from eight to ten minutes, by which time they should be well browned. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. In frying, care should be taken that the pieces of fish are only cooked, and not dried too much. (5) Plunge a good sized Trout into boiling water, and let it soak for two or three minutes ; then take it out, and with the aid of a sharp knife skin it, commencing at the gills. Slit it down the back, take out the bone, divide it into quarters, or pieces if desired, wipe it well with a cloth, dust it over with salt, dip it into well beaten egg, cover it with flour, put it into the egg again, plunge it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a good yellow colour. Take it out, drain off all the fat, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Care should be taken not to fry too fast, otherwise the fish will not have such a rich appearance. (6) Clean the fish and cut off the fins, thoroughly dry them, dredge them with flour, brush them over with beaten egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling hot dripping. Turn a sieve upside-down before the fire, and lay them on it to drain. Serve melted butter sauce, flavoured with mushroom ketchup and lemon pickle, with them. If the Trout are small, roll them in oatmeal before frying them. (7) Slit down the belly two or three Trout, clean, wash, and dry them. Should they be small, then they will not require to be scaled, but the large ones should be. Roll them well in flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little melted bacon-fat, and fry them. They will take from six to fifteen minutes to cook, according to their size. Take them out, drain off all the fat, put them on a dish, and serve with slices of fried bacon for garnish. (8) Clean the fish well and cut off the gills. Have some hot lard or fat ready in a frying-pan, and after brushing the fish all over with beaten egg, and dredging plenty of sifted breadcrumbs over so as to cover them com- pletely and thickly, fry them, letting them brown nicely . When done, lay them on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve very hot. (9) Select a Trout weighing about lib., slit it down the back, open and clean it, chop off the fins, and take out the backbone. Sprinkle the inside well with pepper, put a thin slice cf bacon inside, tie the fish up to its original shape, score it on the outside, and roll it in flour. Put it into a frying-pan with a little boiling lard, and fry for about ten minutes. Take it out, drain it, place it on a dish, remove the string or twine, dust it over with salt, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon and fried parsley. Matelote of Trout and Eels.—Cut into pieces three small cleaned Trout and two small eels, also cleaned, put them into a basin, sprinkle over a handful of salt, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes to macerate. Put Fig. 633. Matelote of Trout and Eels. into a saucepan a finely-chopped carrot, onion, stick of celery, and a little parsley, and cook slowly over the fire for a few minutes; then add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a few trimmings of mushrooms, put in the Trout—continued. pieces of eels, sprinkle over a little pepper, and add suffi- cient red and white wine to cover the whole. Boil quickly for five or six minutes, add the pieces of Trout and a few mushrooms, and cook gently until the latter are done; then add a thickening of butter kneaded in flour. Take out the pieces of fish, put them on a dish, strain the liquor over them, and serve with small glazed onions and mushrooms for garnish (see Fig. 833). Pickled Trout.—Clean the required number of small fresh Trout, draw them by {heir gills, and wipe them externally with a cloth. Dredge them over with salt and flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them. Take them out when done, drain them, and put them into a deep dish. Put a tumblerful of olive oil, or sufficient to cover the fish, into a saucepan, add a quarter of its bulk of vinegar, a little water, and a small quantity each of cloves, peppercorns, basil, and thyme, and a few bay- leaves, and boil slowly for half an hour; then pour it over the fish, and let them soak for several hours. When wanted, which must not be before they have cooled, serve in the dish in which they are soaking. Potted Trout.--(1) Clean one dozen or so small Trout, wash them well, dry them on a cloth, sprinkle them over with salt, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Wipe them dry on a cloth, sprinkle them over with loz. of white pepper, half that quantity of powdered cloves, joz. of cayenne, and a small quantity of mace. Put the Trout, backs downwards, in an earthenware jar or pot, pour over ‘21b. of clarified butter, set the jar in a slack oven, and bake for about four hours. Take it out when done, and the fish are ready for use. (2) Scale and clean one dozen or so Trout, and chop of! their heads, tails, and fins. Well mix in a basin 2 tea- spoonfuls of ginger, 4oz. each of white pepper and ground cloves, |oz. each of cayenne and black pepper, two grated nutmegs, and a little mace; then add half as much again of salt, and when all are well incorporated, put a little in the inside of each fish, and arrange them at the bottom of a deep earthenware jar with their backs downwards. Cover them over with clarified butter, put a lid or paper over the jar, set it in a slack oven, and bake for about eight hours. Carefully take out the fish, put them in a dish, with the belly downwards, cover over with a weighted board, and let them remain until quite cold. Place them in another pan or in jars, smooth them over, pour over clarified butter to cover, set them away in a dry place, and they are ready for use. (3) Put a little more than lib. of Trout into a basin, pour over boiling water to cover, and let them remain for lialf-an hour. Take them out, bone and skin them, put the meat into a mortar, and beat in 41b. of butter; then sprinkle over slowly spices, salt, and cayenne to taste. Put the paste in pots, cover them over with clarified butter or fat, and keep them in a cool dry place until wanted for use. (4) Clean the fish and remove all the bones, season them with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, pack them tightly into jars with a few pieces of butter, cover the jars with plates, put them in the oven, and hake the fish for fifteen or twenty minutes; when quite cold, pour in some clarified butter, cover each jar with brown paper, and tie it round with string. (5) Clean, wash, and dry the fish, and remove the heads, tails, and fins. Mix together the following pounded spices : Two nutmegs, 4 table-spoonful of ginger, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, 4oz. of Jamaica pepper, and joz. each of cayenne and hlack pepper. Add twice their weight of salt, and mix all thoroughly. Put 1 teaspoonful of this mixture into each fish, lay them backs downwards in a deep earthenware jar, cover them with clarified butter, put a piece of stout paper over the top, tie it tightly down, put them into a slow oven, and bake for eight hours. When cooked, take the fish out of the jar, put them on a dish the backs upwards, cover them with a board, and put a heavy weight on the top. When quite cold, pack the fish into smaller jars, leaving a clear space about .-{in. deep at the top, which fill up with clarified butter. Cover the jars, tie them down, and put them away for use.