640 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. F<r details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. saucepan at the side of the fire, and simmer until the wine is reduced to half its original quantity. Take out the fish, which should be done, put it on a dish, add a thickening of butter rolled in flour to the liquor as well as a little minced lemon-peel, boil up once, pour it over the Turbot, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce if desired. (3) Wash and trim oft’ the fins of a Turbot, and rub it well with salt. Cut five lemons into slices, lay half of them at the bottom of a rather shallow dish, then put in the fish and lay the remaining slices of lemon on the top. Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt and ljoz. of saffron in f pint of water, and pour it over the fish ; place a dish on the top to press it lightly. Let the fish macerate for ten or twelve hours. When this is done, drain the fish, pour a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the fish, and fry it till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the fish, lay it on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. (4) Cut the fish into nice-sized pieces, and trim them neatly; lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and baste them well with lemon-juice. Leave the pieces of Turbot to marinade for an hour or two, then dip them in some frying-batter. Put a large piece of butter, lard, or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the pieces of fish a few at a time, and fry them a nice golden brown. As eacli piece is done, take it out of the fat and put it to drain for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Place an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish and put the pieces of fish on it; garnish them with fried parsley and quarters of a lemon, and serve. (5) Cut the remains of some cold Turbot into small, nice- shaped pieces, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of oil. Let the fish steep in this marinade for two or three hours; prepare a good frying-batter, and when sufficiently marinaded dip the pieces of fish in. Put a good-sized lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and when the blue smoke rises put in the pieces of fisli and fry them a pale golden brown. As each piece is taken out of the fat, put them to drain on a sheet of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Turbot on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Hashed Turbot.—Pick the flesh off some cold Turbot, removing all the bones and skin, flake the fisli, put it into a stewpan with some Dutch sauce, and warm it over a gentle fire. Boil some potatoes, and when cooked drain them, season with salt, and mash them up smoothly with butter. Build a wall of the potatoes on a hot dish, turn the fish into the centre, and serve. Kedgeree of Turbot.—Cut off the fillets of a small Turbot, choir them up into small pieces or squares, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done. Season with salt and pepper, and keep them hot at the side of the fire until wanted. Put a finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry it, but with- out allowing it to colour; add lib. of well washed and drained rice, cook for a minute or two, pour in sufficient consomme or fish broth to moisten to a little more than three times the height of the rice, boil quickly for about twelve minutes with the cover on, put the pan at the entrance of the oven, and let the rice dry. Put in the chopped Turbot, sprinkle over a little cayenne, add three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, and pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of white sauce. Stir well for a minute or two, turn the whole out on to a dish, pour over a little browned butter, and serve. Although this dish is of Indian origin it is often used in England. Mayonnaise of Turbot.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from 21b. or 31b. of cold boiled Turbot; cut up the meat into shapes such as hearts or rounds, put them into a basin with sufficient oil and vinegar to moisten, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and add a good flavouring of chopped Turbot—continued. shallots and tarragon-leaves. Let the pieces of fish soak in this for an hour or so, then take them out, arrange them on a dish in a circle, garnish with small fillets of anchovies and gherkins, hard-boiled eggs, beetroot in slices, tarragon-leaves, capers, and pieces of chopped meat jelly. Pour mayonnaise sauce in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 888), and serve. (2) Free some cooked Turbot from skin and bone, and divide the flesh into convenient-sized pieces; make a nice salad dressing with three-parts of salad-oil and one part tarragon vinegar, and season it with salt and pepper. Dip the pieces of Turbot in the dressing, arrange them on a dish, cover well with a mayonnaise sauce, and mix with it some finely-chopped tarragon- and chervil-leaves. Get the hearts of some small lettuces, wash and dry them, and garnish round the fish with them. Arrange tastefully over the whole some capers, olives, slices of hard-boiled eggs and gherkins, and serve. Scalloped Turbot.—Remove the skin and bone from some Turbot, and flake it with two forks. Mix with the flakes a quarter of their bulk of grated breadcrumbs, and season with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a very little cayenne pepper. Fill some table-shells with the mixture, and squeeze in some lemon-juice; strew over a few breadcrumbs, and baste each with 1 table spoonful of warmed butter. Put them into a brisk oven until lightly browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, garnish here and there with parsley, and serve. Turbot a l’Anglaise.—Select a very white Turbot, soak it in cold water with a small quantity of milk if in winter, but if in summer let it remain on the ice until wanted. Make a cut down the centre of the back about 3in. in length and a little distance from the head, lift up the flesh from the backbone, and with a strong knife cut away three or four bones on each side of the large one, and remove two or three of the joints. This will prevent the fish breaking while being cooked, giving it plenty of room to shrink. Large Turbots only should be treated in this way. For small fish make an incision on each side of the backbone, sew up the mouth with thread, nib the belly part with lemon-juice to keep it white while cooking, put the fish on a strainer in a fish-kettle, put two lemons cut into slices and freed of pips on the top, sprinkle over a good supply of salt, half fill the kettle with boiling water, cover with a cloth, and then with the lid ; set it on a quick fire, boil up, and skim well, remove it to a slack lire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, taking particular care that it does not boil. Take out the fish, untie the head if tied, place it on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with potatoes cut into shapes like olives and boiled, put sprigs of parsley in between them as well as over any part of the fish where the skin has cracked, and serve with melted butter sauce slightly acidulated with lemon-juice. Turbot au Beurre Noir.—Remove the skin and bones from some cold cooked Turbot, and cut the fish into nice-sized pieces. Put a large lump of butter into a stewpan, and boil it until it becomes a dark colour; then put in a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley and 1 wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the fish into the sauce and keep it at the side of the fire until hot through. Turn the fish with the butter on to a hot dish, and serve. Turbot a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean and wash a Turbot, put it into a large fish-kettle, cover with boiling water,