THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 635 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iL-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. Let it be said here, once for all, that the practice of fixing the gizzard and liver into the wings lias long since been exploded ; both being useful for other purposes, but spoiled by roasting or baking. Having arranged the wings, lay the fowl on its back, and that will be on its folded wings also ; then grip both thighs with one hand (as shown in the Plate), and with a long trussing-needle (a long packing-needle will do) threaded with twine (white for preference), pierce through the thighs and body in the position demonstrated; that is, in the bend of the joint. Draw the string through, and push the needle under the joint of the wing nearest the leg along it (as shown in the Plate), and then cut through the middle of the thick part, taking a stitch Fig. 877. Partridge Trussed. through the flap of the neck, drawn tightly down, stitch- ing it on to the back, then through the opposite pinion (see Plate). Press the leg into an even position, and square the fowl nicely before you; when it is evenly and neatly shaped, tie the ends of the string fairly tight. That done, press the leg down into the position shown in the Plate, and pass the needle through the leg and body to the other side; draw tight, and return through the flesh, over the outside of the backbone, through again to the joint where the two ends are tied (see Plate). Lastly, cut a little slit in the apron just above the vent, and force the cushion of the tail (Pope’s nose, as it is called) through, so that it remains in the bird out of sight. When Fig. 878. Pigeons Trussed for Roasting or Boiling. fowls are stuffed, the stuffing is pushed in at the hole where the vent was before the tail was tucked in, and thrust right up to the breast, tilling it out like a crop. Sboidd there be any difficulty in making the vent keep in its place, a small skewer must be used. Some cooks cut the feet off at the ankle joint; that is, where the scaly part joins the feathers, and this practice is a good one ; but when it is decided to leave the legs on, they must be singed, or rather burnt, until the outer skin can be stripped off by drawing a cloth firmly along it. Take care that both the knots of the Trussing-twine are on the same side of the bird, as they are more easily removed after cooking. Trussing—con tinned. Pheasants, pigeons, and partridges can be trussed for roasting in a similar manner to that described above. Fowls and turkeys for boiling or braising require a somewhat different mode of Trussing. Make an incision Fig. 879. Quail in Case. in the leg down to the bone (as shown in the Plate), then insert the fingers in the vent, and loosen the skin from the flesh all over round the thigh. When you are satis- fied that the limb is loose of the skin, lift the cut edge nearest the body of the bird, and, folding the limb, thrust it under the skin until it is seen as shown in the illustra- tion. The strings are then fastened over the feet. The great difficulty about this latter mode of Trussing is to get the legs well under the skin without breaking it. The insufficient loosening of the skin is generally the prime cause of trouble. Geese and ducks are trussed by turning the wings under and fastening the legs close to the sides by Fig. 880. Snipe Trussed in French Style. skewers. When the feet of the duck are left on, as they sometimes are, the joint is severed, the toes cut off, and the feet scalded and peeled. The bird is then trussed in the usual way, and the feet are tied under the back, against the points of the wings. Pheasants are trussed like fowls (see Fig. 876), and so are partridges and grouse, excepting that, like all small wild fowl, the legs are crossed (see Fig. 877), and the heads skinned and threaded on skewers, through the pinions.. Pigeons (see Fig. 878), quail (see Fig. 879), and other birds of a similar size are trussed so as to make the breasts plump out. Snipe and woodcock are trussed in France by thrusting the long beak through the body, and transfixing the legs under the thighs (see Fig. 880); woodcocks are sometimes trussed with the head “ hooded,” as it were, under the skin of the breast (see Fig. 881). When any special mode of Trussing for any purpose is prescribed, it will be found described under the particular heading to which it refers.