TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 645 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. at any time, but as they only answer for a certain kind of cooking, they are not much valued by artistic cooks. The flesh of the hen Turkey, which is a smaller bird than the cock, is considered the more delicate and flavoursome. A full-grown Turkey will weigh from 81b. to 121b., and is prepared for cooking as follows: Pluck the feathers the opposite way to which they are lying, using a knife to remove the pin feathers, and singe off all the down with a piece of lighted brown paper. Chop off the head, and should the Turkey be for roasting, slip the skin back from the neck, and chop oft the neck close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on to the back. Take out the windpipe, pull ' the crop away from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off close to the opening into the body, taking care not to injure the skin. The crop) should always be pulled out from the end of the neck rather than through a cut in the skin, which will have to be sewn up if made. Cut through the skin at about 2in. below the leg joint, bend the leg at the cut by pressing it on to the table or board, and break off the bone. Pull out the tendons—which must never be cut—one at a time, pushing a finger under them; or they may be taken out all at once by holding the foot of the bird in a door and pulling the leg, when | the tendons will come out with the foot. The great advantage gained by cutting the leg below the joint is that there is more length of bone left for tying, and after the bird has been cooked these extra pieces of bone can be easily removed, leaving a clean unburnt joint. Cut out the oil bag at the tail, and remove the inside. There is some difference in the methods adopted of trussing a Turkey for roasting or braising, and boiling. For roasting, the same process as that described under trussing poultry is employed. For braising or boiling, trussing differs from the former in that the legs are tucked under the apron as follows : Singe and draw the bird, cut the legs, off at the first joint, pass the finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs and tuck them under the apron of the bird (see Fig. 892). Pass a skewer through the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and Fig. 892. Trussing a Turkey for Boiling. the other leg and wing. Clean the liven and gizzard, and tuck them in with the pinions. Turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and fasten some twine over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. When larded and trussed, a good fat bird should present the appearance shown in Fig. 893. Turkeys are often boned for making galantines or preparing other dishes 5n which the meat of the Turkey without the skeleton is preferred. In some of the follow- ing receipts the boning of the Turkey is prescribed, and the following is the mode of procedure: The skin of the Turkey for boning must not be broken or in the slightest way damaged, otherwise the effect will be spoilt. Pluck and singe the bird, chop off the head, the lower joints of the legs, and the tips of the wings, Turkeys—continued. and draw out the tendons from the legs, loosening the skin round the drumstick. The Turkey must not be drawn before boning. Place the bird on its breast on a board, and with a sharp boning-knife make a cut through the skin of the neck to the middle of the back or near the junction of the side bone. Scrape away the flesh with the skin until the end of the shoulder-blade is reached, ease the flesh from this, and continue to follow the bone to the shoulder joint down to the middle joint in the wing. Great care must be taken at this part, as the skin lies very near the bone. The lower or first bone should be left in the wing, as it is not in the way of carving, and helps to form the bird into shape. Should the Turkey be small, the wings may be chopped off at the middle joint, as there is very little meat on them. Serve the other wing in the same way, and then follow the collar-bone, from the wing down to the breast bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. Care again must be taken in re- moving the flesh from the breast bone not to cut through the skin on the ridge; it should be pushed away with the fingers, and the pieces that are detached from the other flesh can be inserted in their places afterwards. As soon as the breast bone is cleared of meat, take off that from the ribs, then take it from the legs at the top joint, then the drumsticks, turning the flesh inside-out as if pulling off a glove from a finger. When both of the legs have been boned, scrape down to the end of the back bone, and cut through the bone, leaving a part of it in the tail to hold the skewers. Now separate the membrane under the body, and all the flesh should be in the skin, while the skeleton containing the inside can be pulled away at the neck. Aspic of Turkey.—Truss a Turkey as for roasting, stuff it with a well seasoned bread stuffing, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit or roasting jack, and roast it in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before taking the bird up, remove the sheet of paper and brown it. When cooked, leave it till cold. Cut the legs of the Turkey off at the first joint, and fix a Truffle on each drumstick. Cut the two fillets off' the breast, cut them into slices, and replace them. Brush the bird over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, put it on a bed of chopped aspic jelly, garnish on both sides with croutons of aspic jelly, put a bunch of watercress at each end, and serve. Baked Boned Turkey.—Cut all the crust from three six- penny loaves of stale bread, and put them in water to soften; grate and sift all the crumb, and then break up the soaked crust very small and mix it with the grated crumb; add 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sweet marjoram, 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sweet basil, a bunch of pot herbs chopped fine, ^oz. of mace pounded fine, toz. of cloves pounded fine, two nutmegs grated, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt. (The bunch of pot-herbs should be made up of parsley, thyme, and scallions.) Mix these ingredients very well, and then make them into a paste with four beaten eggs. Draw and clean a Turkey, and then bone it. Take a needle and thread, and sew up any tears or cuts that may be found in the skin. Then stuff the Turkey with