TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 481 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. eggs, and divide it into halves. Roll out one half into a thin flat, and cut it into ‘2in. oblong squares; fill a paper cornet with part of the other half, and squeeze out a small ball on each square ; moisten each on one side with a paste-brush dipped in water, and turn it up over the edges, so as to form a sort of triangle. Press the paste with the fingers, join the two extremities of the triangle together by bending them round, then turn them over to give them the shape of little hats (cappelletti). Put the shapes on a sheet of paper, and cover them over with another sheet of paper. Strain the broth into another saucepan, and boil it up ; then put in the cappelletti, boil them for six minutes, move the saucepan to the side of fire, and let the Soup simmer a few minutes longer. Pour the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of grated Parmesan cheese. Carmelite Soup (a la Carmelite).—Soak 1 pint of lentils in water for two hours; then drain them, and stew till tender in a little water; when cooked, pound them, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Mix in a saucepan with some rich broth a little veal gravy, add the puree of lentils, boil it up, and skim well. Fry some slices of bread in boiling fat; when nicely browned, drain them, cut them into small squares, and throw them into the Soup. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Cheap Soup.—Prepare lqt. of stock with some bones. Chop the remains of some cold roasted poultry, rabbit, or game, pound it in a mortar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Strain the stock, mix the pounded meat with it, and let it simmer gently for one hour, skimming off the fat as it rises to the top. When cooked, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, ami serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Chinese Soup (a la Chinoise).—Put Jib. of butter and 6oz. of flour in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till cooked but not browned; then mix in gradually 2qts. each of white broth and milk. Boil the above mixture, then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, 2 table- spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, and a bunch of sweet herbs, seasoning with pepper, salt, sugar, and cayenne pepper. Clean and cut the soft roes of three mackerels into small equal-sized pieces, and fry them lightly in butter. Prepare and cook some small quenelles of whiting forcemeat, and mix with them a little maitre-d’hotel butter and some chopped tarragon. Strain the Soup, return it to the sauce- pan, put in the fish-roes and quenelles, and let it boil seven or eight minutes longer. Pour the Soup into a soup- tureen, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Clear Soup.—Skim off all the fat from 2qts. of stock, put it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of prepared carrots, turnips, leeks, and celery, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, Jib. of scraped beef, a few peppercorns, a lump of salt, and the whites ami shells of two eggs. Stand the saucepan over the fire, whip the contents till boiling, then leave off whipping, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain the Soup, first through a fine hair sieve then two or three times through a jelly-bag, till quite clear. Wine may be added to the Soup before serving, if liked. Clear Soup with Asparagus.—Cut up into pieces about the size of peas the edible portion of twenty-four or thirty sticks of small asparagus, and boil them in salted water. Have ready prepared the following Soup: Put the remains and bones of two cold roast fowls, all cut up into small pieces, into a saucepan, with 1 pinch of salt and water to cover’ and place the saucepan over the lire; when the water commences to bubble, skim it well, and put in two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery, all cut into convenient-sized pieces, and a bunch of sweet herbs including a few sprigs of parsley and a bay-leaf; also put in a few cloves and peppercorns. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for three or four hours. Afterwards skim off all the fat and strain the Soup into a clean saucepan, put in the pieces of asparagus, and boil it up once; then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Soups—continued. Clear Soup with Nudels.—Prepare the desired quantity of clear broth from beef, and skim it well. Peel and slice some carrots, turnips, and green leeks, put them into a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter and one or two young cabbages cut into thin shreds, cover them with the lid, and put them over a very slow fire where they may stew gently until quite tender, shaking the pan occasion- ally. When the vegetables are cooked, put them into the Soup, and boil the whole gently for about lialf-an-hour. Make the nudels as follow : Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy, then work in slowly and smoothly with it three heaped table-spoonfuls of flour and three well- beaten eggs. Strain the Soup, and return it to the sauce- pan ; when it boils up again, put in small quantities of the paste, moulding them into round balls with hands that should be constantly dipped in water, and let it simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour longer. When ready, pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs.—Put into a large sauce- pan lib. of lean veal cut up into small pieces, two or three peeled onions and carrots, and a head of celery, cut up into moderate sized pieces; then put in a lump of butter, and toss the ingredients over the fire until they are lightly browned; next put in a few small pieces of ham and 1 breakfast-cupful of hot common stock. Stir the whole for some time longer over the fire, then move the saucepan off and leave the contents until cold. Chop a knuckle of veal with its bones into small pieces, put these in the saucepan with the other ingredients, add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Fill up the saucepan with cold common stock, and when it boils move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours. Afterwards strain the Soup through a fine hair sieve into a basin, leave it until cold, and then skim off all the fat. Pour the Soup into a saucepan without disturbing the sediment at the bottom, mix with it the whites of two eggs that have been whisked to a froth, and place it over the fire until boiling, whisking it occasionally; then strain it through a broth-napkin, return it to the saucepan again, and keep it hot at the edge of the fire. Pour some boiling water into a deep frying-pan, put in a lump of salt, a few leaves of parsley, and a small quantity of vinegar, and poach in it as many eggs as will be required; when the eggs are sufficiently cooked, take them out carefully, and cut them all to one size with a fluted tin cutter about 2in. in diameter. Pour the boiling Soup into a soup-tureen, place the eggs care fully in it, and serve. A few leaves of tarragon or chervil would be an improvement. Coburg Soup (4 la Saxe Coburg).—Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with one thinly-sliced onion and Jib. of lean ham, and fry them over a clear fire for ten minutes. Finely chop about 21b. of boiled Brussels sprouts, put them in with the onions, and fry them for six or seven minutes; dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it till well mixed; then pour in gradually 4qts. of clear Soup and 1 pint of boiled milk, season the Soup with pepper, salt, and 1 teaspoonfnl of sugar, stir it over the fire, and boil quickly for ten minutes; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Strain the Soup through a silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it up again. Put some small poached veal forcemeat quenelles in a soup-tureen with some croutons of fried bread, pour in the Soup, and serve it. Colbert Soup (a la Colbert).—(1) Cut the hearts from five heads of celery, blanch them well, put them into a sauce- pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. Pour in some clear Soup, and boil it. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 teacupful of cream. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the eggs and the cream quickly. Poach some eggs, put them into a soup-tureen, pour the Soup over them, and serve. Conde Soup (ala Conde).—(1) Wash and soak 1 pint of red beans in water for two hours. Put into a saucepan a knuckle of veal, lib. of the breast of bacon, and some bones and trimmings of roast fowl if handy; add one