536 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. Butter-scotch..—(1) Mix together \ salt spoonful of cream of tartar and lib. of the best Sugar; pour over it J pint of water, and let it stand for a short time to allow the Sugar to dissolve. Put it in a pan over a moderate fire, and let it cook, keeping the pan closely covered, till if a spoon be dipped into it it hardens on the spoon. Add 2oz. of butter and a flavouring of vanilla, pour the butter- scotch into tins, and when cool cut it into oblong pieces; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep them in a cool place. (2) Beat Jflb. of butter to a cream, then mix into it lib. of moist Sugar, 1 dessert-spoonful each of cornflour and ground ginger, and 2 table-spoonfuls each of maple syrup and water; beat all well together, set it over a moderate fire in a pan, and let it cook, keeping the pan covered, till a little of it put into cold water becomes brittle. Pour it into buttered tins, and when cold cut it into oblong pieces; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep them in a cool place. (3) Put Jib. of good fresh butter in a pan, set it over a moderate fire, and when quite melted stir into it 21b. of brown Sugar and the grated rind of a lemon. Let it boil, stirring it constantly, till a little of it put into cold water becomes brittle; then pour it on a well oiled marble slab,and when cool enough cut it into oblong pieces ; wrap them separately in oiled papers, and keep in a cool place. Cough Drops.—Prepare a decoction or tea of 2oz. of dried horehound, half the quantity of camomile, the same of boneset, and 2oz. of mullein-flowers, by putting them all into a saucepan, covering them with water, and boiling for ten minutes. Turn the whole into an earthenware or porcelain bowl, cover closely, and let them remain until cold; Strain and pass the liquor through a hair sieve, measure it, and to each pint allow 21b. of Sugar. Put the Sugar and liquor into a saucepan, boil them to the crack degree, let it cool, pour it on to a greased marble slab, turn it at the edges, and cut it into tablets or pass it through a drop-machine ; dust them over with fine Sugar, put them in boxes, and keep in a cool place. Dragees or French Sugar Plums.—(1) Soak Jib. of stick cinnamon in water for twelve hours, then cut it in strips about lin. long; lay them on a sieve, set it in a warm place, and leave for some days. When the cinnamon is quite dry and hard, boil 6lb. of white Sugar with lqt. of water to the ball degree. Put the pan of syrup where it will keep warm, and have ready a mixture of flour and starch powder. Put the strips of cinnamon into a French Sugar pan with a longisli handle called a tossing pan, pour over them 2 table spoonfuls of syrup, and so shake and toss them that they will be thoroughly wetted with the syrup, then strew them with the flour and starch powder, shake and toss them again, that this may adhere evenly all over them, and swing the pan backwards and forwards till they become dry, keeping the bits of cinna- mon well in motion. When they are dry, moisten them again with the syrup, shaking them about till all are wet; then powder them, and swing them about till dry. Repeat this process of shaking them first in a little syrup and then in powder till they are of the required size, then pour syrup over them for the last time, swing them till thoroughly dry without powdering them, take them out of the pan, and leave on sieves in a warm place for a short time, that they may be perfectly dry before they are packed away. Be careful to clear and clean the tossing- pan from any crust of powder and syrup that may form at the bottom of it during the process of tossing and shak- ing. The dragees in course of being made should be carefully removed with an iron spatula, and the pan well washed and dried each time after the flour and powder are added. The dragees may then be put back in the pan and the process continued. (2) Soak Jib. of gum dragon in just sirfficient water to cover it. The following day put this gum into a mortar and stir it well with the pestle for fifteen or twenty minutes (the longer it is stirred the whiter it will be). When the stirring is finished add to it the caked Sugar removed from the tossing-pan during the manufacture of Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. any other dragdes (see No. 1). This Sugar being well pounded and sifted, add also lib. of finely-powdered white Sugar, 1 table spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and shake in by degrees 21b. or 31b. of flour, moistening the whole occasionally with water till the paste is of the proper con sistency. Put this on the slab or paste board, knead it well, roll it out in sheets not thicker than Jin., and cut it into narrow strips about lin. long. Lay these on a sieve or on paper and leave them in a warm place for several days. Boil some Sugar to the ball degree. Put the dried strips of paste into a tossing-pan, pour over them a small quantity of the syrup, and so shake and toss them that they shall be thoroughly wetted with it, then strew them with flour, and shake and toss them again that this may adhere evenly all over them. Swing the pan backwards and forwards till they are dry, keep- ing them all well in motion. Proceed in this manner, alternately adding syrup and flour, till they are of the required size; the last time and the last but one that flour is added to them it should be mixed with starch powder to give them whiteness. Lay them on sieves to dry thoroughly. Ban Sucre.-A famous French drink, made by dissolving one or two lumps of white Sugar in 1 tumblerful of cold or warm water. Sometimes Sugar that has been flavoured with some essence, such as 2 or 3 drops of vanilla, rose, or lemon, is preferred. English. Rock. -Put 71b. of moist Sugar and lqt. of water into a Sugar-boiler, boil it to the crack, turn it out on to an oiled slab, and spread over and work in thoroughly 41b. of sweet almonds, not blanched; form the mass into a roll, and let it get cool. Cut it into slices about Jin. in thick- ness, and when perfectly cold it should be packed away in tins. French Rock.—Boil to the crack, as already described, 7lb. of loaf Sugar, Joz. of cream of tartar, and lqt. of water; stir in 4lb. of blanched sweet almonds and let them remain on the fire or stove, stirring continually with the spatula until the Sugar boils again. Pour the mixture on to greased square tins, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Hardbake.—Blanch and split into halves the required quan- tity of sweet almonds, lay them flat side downwards on an oiled slab, and pour over them loaf or moist Sugar boiled to the crack so as to give them a coating of about Jin. Great care must be taken not to disturb the almonds, otherwise they will be unevenly distributed. When cool, mark the surface into squares, and as soon as it is cold it may be broken up at the indentations, and packed away till required for use. Harlequin Balls.—Boil 71b. of loaf Sugar, lqt. of water, and Joz. of cream of tartar to the crack, pour it out on to a warmed slab or board, and divide it into three parts. One part must be coloured red with cochineal, another yellow, and the third pulled white over a hook. Place the white Sugar between the yellow and red, pass it through a drop machine, or cut it into cushions, keeping the three colours distinct; when cold, pack them away and use as required. Honeycomb.—Have ready a wooden frame about 8in. square, and place it on a moistened marble pouring-slab. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted crashed loaf Sugar into a basin with the white of an egg, and mix them together. Put 411). of loaf Sugar and 1 pint of water into a Sugar- boiler, boil it to the crack, then remove the boiler at once from the fire; pour in the Sugar-and-egg mixture, stir well until it rises, let it subside, stir again until it com- mences to rise a second time, pour it at once into the wooden frame, and let it cool. It may now be cut into shapes or not, as desired, but must be quite cold before being removed from the slab. Any desired flavouring or colouring may be added at the same time as the Sugar- and egg mixture. Honey Drops (Imitation).—Put 14lb. of lump Sugar broken up small into a copper Sugar-pan with 4oz. of cream of tartar; set the pan on the fire, pour in 3 pints of water,