610 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tong ues—continued. slaughtered animal to cut away with it all the fat and glands surrounding the windpipe, and the upper part of the pipe itself (see Fig. 813). A few directions that apply to Tongues generally are given hereunder. The word itself descends from the Icelandic and Swedish tunga, meaning language, although it is used for the purpose of speaking by the human race only. Boiled Tongues.—Soak the prepared Tongues overnight in plenty of cold water to freshen them slightly if they are salted, or to blanch them if they are fresh. The next day put them in a saucepan over the fire with cold water for salted Tongues, or boiling water for fresh ones, and allow twenty minutes to each pound for boiling, from the time they begin to boil. A lemon sliced, or 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 teaspoonful each of whole cloves and peppercorns, boiled with a large Tongue, less for smaller Tongues, and so on in proportion, greatly improves the flavour. When the Tongues are done, take them up, peel off the skins, and return them again to the hot liquor to keep warm, or, if they are to be used cold, let them cool in it. When serving, slice them into long slices, beginning near the tip. All the fleshy parts, and the fat near the roots of the Tongues, will serve to make excellent hash when cold, but are not generally served with the Tongue. Jellied Tongue.—Soak 1 loz. of gelatine in 1 breakfast- cupful of cold water for ten minutes. Put in a bowl 1 breakfast-cupful of good, hot, brown veal gravy. Dissolve 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar in a little cold water, and add it, together with 1 table-spoonful of sugar not burned, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and a bunch of savoury herbs, to the gravy in the bowl. When the gelatine has soaked ten minutes, put it in also; then pour in 1 pint of boiling water, and stir till the gelatine is completely dissolved. Strain the liquor through flannel, and let the jelly cool. When it begins to thicken, wet the inside of a basin or plain mould with cold water; put a very little jelly at the bottom, and then arrange in it some slices of hard-boiled eggs; put in a little more jelly, then a layer of slices of cold boiled Tongue, then more jelly and more Tongue, and so on alternately till Fig. 814. jellied Tongue. the mould is full. Put it in a cold place till quite firm, and when quite set it is fit for use. Dip the mould in hot water for an instant, turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 814), and serve. Fickled Tongue.—Wash the Tongue quite clean, lay it on a dish or pan, with plenty of salt over it, and turn it over every day for four or five days so that every part of it may be evenly salted. After tiie fourth or fifth day, mix together 2oz. of salt, £oz. of saltpetre, and loz. of brown sugar, and rub this well into the Tongue. Turn it over every day for a fortnight, and it is then fit to use. Potted Tongue.—Rub an ox-tongue well with Jib. of brown sugar and loz. of saltpetre. Leave it for two days; then boil it until tender. Drain and skin the Tongue, cut it Tongues—continued. into small pieces, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar with lib. of clarified butter. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of pounded mace. Press the paste into small jars, cover them with parchment, and tie them down. Stewed Tongue.—Wash the Tongue very carefully, and then rub it well with salt mixed with a little saltpetre. Let it remain in the salt for three days, ami then boil it till the skin can be easily peeled off. After taking off the skin, put the Tongue into a stewpan with 1 pint of stock and some of the liquor it was boiled in ; add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle, 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, some pepper, and two or three pounded cloves. When the Tongue is almost done, add loz. of flour, with 1 table-spoonful of butter rubbed into it, to thicken the sauce. Serve the Tongue hot, with the sauce poured over it. Tongue Salad.—Cut some cold boiled ox-tongue into small, thin strips, put them in a salad bowl, and add some chopped boiled potatoes and the same quantity of celery cut into small pieces. Strew some finely-chopped parsley over the salad, and baste it with a few table-spoonfuls of beef broth. Prepare a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad, which place in the ice box. When ready to serve, garnish the salad with the crisp heart-leaves of a lettuce. Tongue Sandwich.—Chop Alt), of cold boiled Tongue, put it in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, some salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and pound it to a paste. Dilute the paste with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread them with the mixture, ami press them together in pairs. Cut the sandwiches into halves, put them on an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin placed on a dish, and serve them. Tongue Toast.—(1) Take the remains of a cold cooked Tongue, grate it as fine as possible, add a little finely- chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and form the mixture into a thin paste with yolks of eggs. Make the mixture as hot as possible without boiling, turn it out on to slices of thin toast, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, brown the surface with a salamander, or in front of the fire, and serve. (2) Procure some of the hard parts or outside of a cold Tongue that may have got dry, and grate them, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cut some moderately thick slices off a tin loaf, toast them delicately on both sides, trim off the crust, and butter them. Cover each piece of toast with thin slices of cucumber, strew the grated Tongue over them, and dust over with a very small quan- tity of cayenne pepper. Put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish nicely with fried parsley, and serve. TOOTHPICKS.—These are made of gold, silver, quill, or bits of sharpened stick. The mediaeval habit of using the prong of the fork was substituted by the intro- duction of splints of sweet-scented woods. These latter might be re-introduced with advantage. TOPS-AND-BOTTOMS.—The name given to a kind of nursery biscuits that are considered to have special merits as food for infants. The best receipt for their manufacture is the following: Prepare a dough as described for RUSKS, and make it into balls about the size of a small egg; place these on baking-sheets in straight rows just touching; cover them with a cloth, and let them prove well ; then bake in a moderately quick oven. When cold, cut the balls asunder, turn on the side, and cut through the middle, one at a time. Put back on the baking, sheet with the cut surface upwards, and set in a warm oven. When nicely browned over, remove and dry in a screen, or before a hot fire. TORTOISE BROTH.-—This is made from the common garden tortoise, and was at one time believed to be a remedy for consumption. As the flesh of this