553 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. SWEET SOP.—The fruit of a plant (Anona squa- mosa) (see Fig. 729), of the same species as the custard apple and Sour-Sop. It is extensively cultivated in the East and West Indies, and held in great esteem by the natives, who use it for making drinks, pies, and px-eserves. SWISS MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. SWISS PUDDING.—See Puddings. SWISS ROLL—If we are indebted to Switzerland for this delicious pastry (see Fig. 730), then that country Fig. 730. Swiss Boll. is entitled to our gratitude, for rarely has a more excellent combination been devised. The following receipts for its manufacture will be found very good: (1) Allow three eggs and an equal weight of butter, caster sugar, and flour. Separate the whites and the yolks of the eggs, beat the yolks, warm the butter, mix the sugar with it, and beat until creamy ; then mix in the yolks, whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly with the mixture, and sift in the flour by degrees. Add a small quantity of lemon-juice, and mix the whole thoroughly. Butter a baking-dish, pour in the above mixture, making it about Jin. deep, and bake it for eight minutes in a quick oven. Spread a sheet of white paper on the table and strew plenty of caster sugar over it. When the cake is cooked, turn it on to the paper, sprea1 a layer of any kind of jam over it, and roll it up. This must be done very quickly while the cake is hot or it will break. (2) Line a mould 2in. deep with white paper, allowing it to appear about lin. above the edge of the tin, then brush the paper over with a paste brush dipped in warm butter. Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a basin and break over it seven eggs. Stand the basin in a stewpan that has a little boiling water at the bottom and place it over the fire; the top of the basin should be a little larger than the top of the stewpan, so that it will not touch the water at the Swiss Roll—continued. bottom. Whisk the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes, then move the basin away from the fire and mix in 6oz. each of warmed butter and the best white flour. The latter ingredients should be sifted and mixed in very slowly to avoid lumps. Pour the mixture into the papered tin and bake it for half-an-hour in a brisk oven. Open the oven door frequently so that some of the heat may escape. When cooked, turn it upside down on to a hair sieve, remove the tin, and leave it until cool. Spread a thin layer of any kind of jam over the paste, roll it uq> firmly, and dust it over with broken sugar. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and baking-powder. Beat two eggs well and stir them into the mixture. Butter a long-shaped shallow tin, pour the mixture into it to nearly -Jin. in thickness, put it in a brisk oven, and bake for seven minutes. Turn 1 teacupful of any kind of jam into a small saucepan and stir it over the fire until hot. When cooked, take the pastry out of the oven, spread the jam over it, and roll it up. Sift caster sugar over, and serve. SWISS RUSKS.—See Rusks. SWISS SAUCE.—See Sauces. SWISS WINES.—These are not well known out of Switzerland, the production being infinitely below the local demand. SWORD-FISH {Ft. Espadon; Ger. Schwei’tfisch).— Improbable as it would seem, the flesh of this fish (Xiphias gladius) is exceedingly delicate, flaky, and tender. It is found in almost every sea, and grows to a great size. The following receipt for cooking it is given by one who has frequently used it: Cut a piece of Sword-fish into moderate-sized slices, wash them in tepid water, then dry and rub them well with salt. Dip the slices first in flour, then in beaten egg, and fry them till nicely browned in butter or olive oil, whichever is preferred. Pick some parsley off the stems, put it in a stewpan with four or five cloves of garlic, place the pieces of fish on it, and spread the same quantity of parsley and garlic on the top of it; season with salt and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with | pint of water and the strained juice of two lemons. Put the lid on the pan, and boil the contents gently at the side of the fire until the fish is tender and the moisture has almost entirely evaporated. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, and serve. SYLLABUB.—-Some authorities prefer to spell this word Sillabub, and if the derivation given by Webster is correct (site—to strain, and bub—a drink), then the latter would be more accurate. In common parlance it is spelled as in the heading. It is described as a dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming a soft curd; also sweetened cream, flavoured with wine and beaten to a stiff froth. The following are good receipts for its preparation in various forms : (1) Put 1 pint each of beer and cider into a punch-bowl, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with grated nutmeg. If possible stand the bowl under a cow and milk in about 3 pints of milk, failing that, pour the milk gradually in from as great a height as possible, so that it may froth up. Wash some currants and put them in a warm oven till swollen, then strew them over the Syllabub, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of cream in a punch-bowl with 3 teacupfuls of white wine, the juice of two Seville oranges and one lemon, and caster sugar to taste. Beat the mixture, skim off the froth as it rises, and put it into glasses. When finished, serve. (3) Put 2oz. of loaf sugar into a china punch-bowl, pour in | pint each of sherry and cider, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the above ingredients till the sugar has dissolved, then place the bowl under a cow and have it milked into, filling the bowl as full as possible; grate