534 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. boilers or pans are made in several shapes, from tlie old-fashioned Scotch-saucepan or “ Goblet ” to the deep round pan (see Fig. 694), which finds most favour amongst confectioners, whether for large or for small Fig. 694. Sugar-boiler or Pan. quantities, the pan being large or small accordingly. The stove used for receiving the pan should be fitted with a ring for the round dome-bottom of the pan to rest in, and the heat supply may then be derived from either fuel or gas. Mr. E. Skuse, one of our most famous Sugar-boilers, re- commends a stove constructed as follows (see Fig. 695) for simplicity and effective convenience. About one hundred Fig. 695. Stove for Sugar-boiling (E. Skuse). common bricks and a dozen fire-bricks, a cast-iron stove- top having a round hole in the centre fitted with rings to regulate the size of the opening, a small flat grate, and a piece of iron llin. long 3in. wide and Jin. thick are required. If on a stone floor the building may commence forthwith. If the floor be of wood, then stone, gravel, or sand will be necessary to form a bed for the stove to stand on. First form the ashpit (a), by erecting the pillars (b b) four bricks high and three bricks from back to front, and 9in. between the two. Lay the flat piece of iron over the pillars so as to support the next course of bricks, and then go on building the outside wall to make a square, arranging the fire-bricks vertically at the back to Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. form a compartment to receive the heat of the small grate, which can next be set in the space left (a), so that the fire, when lighted, will be immediately under the opening in the top plate. Pack the spaces behind the fire-bricks with rubble, and plaster all round with fire-clay. Half of one of the fire-bricks may be left out, the hole thus formed doing duty for a little flue, through which the smoke may be readily conducted by means of a pipe into a chimney. An iron or marble pouring-plate (see Fig. 696), laid on a table, and supplied with different-sized frames, is another necessary implement, and the Sugar-boiler may then*’proceed to an almost unlimited manufacture. All skilled Sugar-boilers' advise the use of a thermometer graduated from 50deg. to 350deg. Fahr. (see Fig. 697), but very few skilled boilers use them; they are accus- tomed to judge of the degree to which the Sugar has arrived by very simple tests which will be described further on. Mr. Skuse, in his “Confectioners’ Hand-book,” observes: “ While the Sugar is undergoing the process of boiling, it is almost impossible for a learner to determine the exact degree which the Sugar has attained without its (the ther- mometer’s) aid, and even the journeyman (confectioner) finds it so useful that you will find very few indeed who boil Sugar without it; in fact, many of the large shops will not allow a Sugar-boiler to work without one.” This statement is not altogether in accord with experience, but is reasonable, nevertheless, and forms a sound prelude for the following description of Sugar-boiling degrees. Put into the pan 71b. of loaf Sugar, bro- ken into small pieces (or white crystallised Sugar will serve the same purpose), and j hlrmometer moisten this with lqt. of water. Set the pan Sugar-boiling. on the fire and let the contents boil. Directly bubbles show on the surface, lift the pan off the fire and examine the contents to see if all the Sugar is dis- solved. Stir with a spatula (a piece of wood about 2in. wide and 2ft. long) and crush any lumps that may remain. Set again on the fire, put a cover over the pan, and in ten minutes’ time take off the cover and put in the ther- mometer, being careful that the lower part shall be thoroughly immersed in the Sugar. When the thermometer registers 215deg. to 220deg., the degree called smooth is reached, and the Sugar is suitable for crystallising and making gum goods and liqueurs. At 230deg. to 235deg. (thread) it is used for liqueurs. 240deg. to 245deg. (feather or blow) quickly follows, requiring close attention to the pan so that the Sugar shall not boil over; this condition is suitable for can- dying fruits, and for making fondants and creams. 250deg. to 255deg. (ball or pearl) serves for cocoa-nut and other candies, cocoa-nut ice, and grain Sugars generally. 310deg. to 315deg. (crack) is required for all kinds of drops, rocks, toffies, and clear goods. The hand-test for these degrees is. not so satisfactory, although it is marvellous with what accuracy an expe- rienced confectioner will judge of their arrival. He dips a clay-pipe stem in the Sugar when it is boiling and draws it between the finger and thumb. If the Sugar feels oily it has reached the smooth degree (215deg. to 220deg.). When the Sugar forms small threads between the finger and thumb as they are opened out, it has reached the thread degree (230deg. to 235deg.), which maybe either small or large. The feather degree (240deg. to 245deg.) so quickly follows the thread that no test is necessary, although a toss of a little of the Sugar in the air will show the feathered appearance. The hall degree (250deg. to Fig. 697.