660 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turning—continued. cook’s knife—one that wouM he used for honing. (Further information concerning the cutting of vegetables into patterns and designs will be found under Vegetables. TURNIPS (Fr. Navets; Ger. Ruben; Hal. Napi; Sp. Nabos).—The ancient Greeks and Romans were, accord- ing to history, well acquainted with the Turnip (Brassica Rapa) (see Fig. 905). In the fifteenth century we read that it was one of the principal crops cultivated by the Flemings from whom they were introduced into this country about the middle of the sixteenth century. Wild Turnips are frequently found growing in the corn- fields of England, the bulb being comparatively hard and Fig. 905. Common Turnip. Fig. 906. French Yellow Turnip. woody. By cultivation a comparatively useless root has been converted into a nutritious vegetable. For an account of the culinary uses to which Turnips can be applied, reference must be made to the following receipts. A variety known as the Yellow Turnip (see Fig. 906) has a long and spindle-shaped root, somewhat resembling a carrot. It is much more delicate in flavour than the common Turnip, and is extensively cultivated in France and Germany for use both raw and as a dinner vege- table. Boiled Turnips.—(1) Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into quarters, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and add 1 table-spoonful of salt to every 2qts. of water, Boil the Turnips till quite tender, then drain them, and they are ready for serving. (2) Peel and slice lqt. of Turnips, and boil them in salted water until they can be mashed; then drain and mash them, season them with salt, pepper, and plenty of butter, stir them over the fire constantly until all the water has evaporated, and serve them. Instead of mash- ing boiled Turnips, they can be cut in dice and heated in white sauce, or milk, or simply with salt, pepper, and butter. Cold boiled Turnips mixed with an equal quantity of potatoes, seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter, and then fried, make a good dish. Brown Turnip Garnish.—Peel the Turnips, cut them into pieces 2in. long and lin. wide, wash them, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, and drain them. Put a Turnips—continued. pat of butter into a frying-pan, and melt it without brown- ing; then put in the Turnips, and toss them about over a clear fire for a few minutes till lightly browned. Drain them, put them in a stewpan with some chicken broth, and boil them till tender. Drain them again, and use them for garnish. Fried Turnips with Curd (TURKISH).—Peel and wash the Turnips, cut them into rather thick slices, and boil them in salted water till partly cooked; then let them drain till quite free of water. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it ; dip the slices of' Turnip in flour, then put them in the frying-pan, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Lay the slices in a baking-dish that will bear the heat of the lire, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock over them, and set the pan over a slow fire. In about fifteen minutes’ time take the Turnips off the fire, drain and place them on a hot dish, cover them with dairy curd, pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot butter over them, dust them with salt and pepper, and serve. Glazed Turnips with Gravy.—(1) Peel and wash the Turnips, turn them to a ball shape, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, and drain them. Put 1 small pat of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Turnips, and fry them till lightly browned. Drain them, put them in a stewpan with 1pints of household gravy, season with 1 pinch of sugar anil a small quantity of salt, and keep them simmer- ing gently till tender. Put the Turnips on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (2) Peel and cut into pear shapes twelve equal-sized small white Turnips, parboil them for five minutes, and drain them when done. Butter the bottom of a saute-pan capable of holding them, put them in one beside the other, and let them get a golden colour, adding pint of [lowered sugar. Moisten with \ pint of white broth, and add i pinch of salt and a very small stick of cinnamon. Cover with a buttered paper cut the shape of the pan, and place it in the oven to cook for twenty minutes. When the Turnips are cooked, lift off the paper, and arrange them on a hot dish. Reduce the gravy to a glaze for six minutes, then pour \ gill of broth into the saucepan to loosen the glaze, remove the cinnamon, and pour the sauce over the Turnips. Mashed Turnips.—Peel the Turnips, wash them, cut them into thin slices, put them in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam them for about an hour, or until they are quite tender; then mash them with a small quantity of milk, seasoning with pepper and salt. The above dish is generally served with boiled mutton, in which case they can be steamed over the saucepan in which the mutton is boiling. Pickled Turnips.—Peel as many Turnips as are wanted, cut them crosswise into four pieces each, put them in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them until nearly tender; then take them out and drain them on a colander. Put a moderate quantity of powdered mustard seed in their cooking liquor, and leave it for two or three hours. Lay the Turnips in a stone jar, sweeten the liquor to taste, and strain over them, through a line hair sieve, suffi- cient to half cover them. Fill the jar up with the best white vinegar, and put the lid on, seeing that it is perfectly air- tight. In ten days’ tune the pickle will be ready for use. Stewed Turnips.—(1) Peel, blanch, and drain some Turnips, all of one size. Butter the bottom of a saucepan large enough for the Turnips to be put in side by side, lay them in, pour in some stock, and season with salt, caster sugar, and a stick of cinnamon. When the liquor b.uls, put a sheet of buttered paper on the top, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and cook the Turnips gently. When sufficiently cooked, take the lid off the saucepan, and leave the Turnips in the liquor till cold and glazed ; then put them on a dish. Melt the glaze with a small quantity of stock, take out the cinnamon, pour the sauce over the Turnips, and serve them. (2) Pare and wash the Turnips, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them till tender. Drain and