628 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles—con tinned. salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with champagne and a little blonde de veau or veal stock, and boil until tender. Take out the Truffles when done, and put them on a dish ; strain the liquor into another saucepan, reduce it to half its original quantity, pour it over the Truffles, and serve. (2) Cover the bottom of a saucepan with ham and veal cut in slices, cover these with well washed and peeled Truffles, add a little melted bacon-fat or lard, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few mushrooms, and salt and pepper to l taste. Place a few slices of fat bacon over the whole, i add sufficient champagne to moisten, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the Truffles are done. Take them out ami put them on a dish; strain and skim the sauce, reduce it, pour it over the Truffles, and serve. (3) Put one dozen large Truffles into a bowl of luke- warm water, soak for a couple of hours, scrub and wash them thoroughly, put them into a saucepan over a few slices of fat bacon, and add one carrot, one turnip, and two onions, all cut in slices, seasoning with six cloves, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a bunch of parsley; pour in sufficient rich stock to moisten to half their height, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for half-an-liour. Pour in J pint of cham- pagne, simmer for half-an-liour longer, remove the pan from the fire, cover it over with the lid, taking care that it fits tightly, let it cool, and pack it in ice, placing a weight on the lid. When the Truffles are quite cold, put them on a napkin on a dish, strain the liquor into a sauceboat, and serve. A little more seasoning may be re quired for the sauce; if so, it must be added and well stirred in. Truffle-and-Chestnut Stuffing.—(1) Peel off the thick outer skin of the chestnuts, put them in a saucepan with a bay leaf, a lump of salt, and plenty of coriander seeds, cover them with water, and boil them until nearly tendei-. Drain the chestnuts and peel off the inner skin; for every Jib. of chestnuts, weighed after they are boiled and peeled, allow ilb. of fat bacon, Jib. of Truffles, and a shallot. Mince the bacon and shallot, put it in a stewpan, and fry it; then put in the Truffles and chestnuts, both cut up into small pieces, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, also add in small quantities some powdered thyme and marjoram, toss the mixture for a few minutes longer over the fire, and it is then ready for use. (2) Put lib. of fat chopped bacon and two shallots into a saucepan, and toss them for a minute or two over the fire; add lib. of boiled and skinned chestnuts, and Jib. of well washed and peeled Truffles, cut up into small pieces; then sprinkle over a little spice, salt, and pepper to taste, also a slight flavouring of powdered marjoram and thyme. Boil for a minute or two, and the stuffing is then ready for use. Truffle Cromeskies.—Chop up a few cooked Truffles and an equal quantity each of white flesh of fowl and fat livers, also cooked, and make them into a mass by adding reduced white sauce. Spread the mixture on to a baking- sheet to about Jin. in thickness, and let it cool on the ice. Put one or two calf's udders into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, and boil until done. Take them out, let them cool, trim, cut them into thin slices, beat them to reduce their thickness, put the Truffle preparation in them, and fold over so as to completely cover it. Dip them singly into batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, anti brown them slightly. Truffles—continued. Take them out when done, pile them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 842). Truffles in Croustades.—(1) Wash and peel half-a- dozen Truffles, chop them up small, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and salt and pepper to taste, warm them over a quick fire, and pour in 4 table-spoonfuls each of Madeira wine and melted glaze. Remove the saucepan from the fire when the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, add a lump of butter, stir it well in, and keep the preparation warm. Cut off some slices about §in. in thickness from a household loaf, and these slices again into heart or other shapes, mark them on one surface with the point of a knife, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry them. Open them where they were marked, take out the insides, fill them with the Truffle mixture, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. (2) Peel and wash one dozen Truffles after soaking them in warm water for a couple of hours, and cut them into thin slices. Put 2oz. of butter into a saute-pan, warm it, add the Truffles, sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, and cook for a minute or two; then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, and cook slowly until the Truffles are done and quite tender, turning them occasion- ally so as to cook them equally on both sides. Add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze, toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, and sprinkle over a little sugar. Cut two French rolls in halves, pull out the crumb, butter the crusts, and broil them over the fire to glaze them. Put them on a dish, fill them with the Truffle preparation, and serve. Truffles with Eggs.—Having well cleaned two or three large Truffles, peel them, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and cook them over a gentle fire until tender. Beat four eggs well with 1 teacupful of cream, and pour them over the Truffles, which should first be taken off’ the fire. Season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and stir them at the side of the fire with a wooden spoon until the eggs begin to set. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a pale golden brown in butter, and serve. Truffle Forcemeat.—Peel and wash lib. or so of Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, warm them, add an equal bulk of calf’s udder or scraped bacon, and a little minced sweet herbs, turn the whole when warm into a mortar, and pound well. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, mix in a little breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and sufficient yolks of eggs to give the forcemeat the required consistency. It is then ready for use. Truffles for Garnish.—Select large, round Truffles, wash them well, and peel them; put the required number (say about 31b.) into a saucepan, pour over sufficient chicken broth and sauterne or champagne to nearly cover them, add an onion stuck with two cloves, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little skimming from the chicken broth or fat. Put the saucepan on the fire, and boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, with the lid on the pan; then remove it from the fire, and let the Truffles cool in the liquor. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Or they may be boiled for ten minutes, and cut into various shapes. The trimmings from them after they have been cooked may be employed in making sauce, as well as the liquor in which they were cooked. Truffle Ice.—Well wash and peel four fresh black Truffles, put the trimmings into a saucepan with 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk, and boil for ten minutes; strain the liquor through a sieve into a basin, and mix in lOoz. of sugar and the yolks of six eggs. Put this mixture, after it has been well beaten, into the freezer, and let it cool. Chop up the Truffles, put them into a saucepan with a little boiling syrup, and boil for a minute; remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the Truffles cool. Take them out, drain them, put them into a mortar, pound them, rub them through a sieve into a basin, pour over the syrup, and mix in a little of the infusion already in the freezer, so as to cool the Truffles quicker. Put this into the