TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 566 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Tankards—continued. elaborately ornamented with arabesques, bands of repousse, and engraved work. The celebrated “ Poison- cup ” (see Fig. 749), which some Italian ladies in the seventeenth century used to poison their husbands, was a glass Tankard enclosed in silver filigree casing. The poison employed to effect their base purpose was known as aqua togana, so-called because prepared by a woman named Togania. As arsenic was probably the active agent, a glass vessel was used as less likely to leave traces of the poison. Tankards of a later date were tall, upright, and straight-sided (see Fig. 750), often beautifully orna- mented, some of which were used in the reigns of James I. and Charles I. Towards the middle of the seventeenth century Tankards were in common use, and are frequently mentioned in inventories taken at that time. According to Griggs (“ Old English Plate ”) a splendid pair of Tan- kards, of one of which a drawing is given (see Fig. 751), came into the possession of the Merchant Taylors’ Com- pany in London, reverting to them on the dissolution of a Fig. 751. Broad Tankard. Dublin Guild. They show, round the lower part of the drum, the acanthus-leaf ornament, which is so charac- teristic of the seventeenth century—the time at which they were made. From an early account-book of the Clockmakers’ Company it may be mentioned that a pair of Tankards were ordered to be made, weighing together 100oz., and costing £31 19s. 5d. Every great company or guild lias its Tankards, more or less chaste and beautiful in their execution; some of ancient record, and others of more modern origin. Tankards—continued. The same authority as previously quoted informs us that “ These domestic Tankards of the second half of this (seventeenth) century are very plain, often of very great diameter in proportion to their depth, and have hat lids and very massive handles, the lower part of the latter often being notched to form them into whistles. They came in at the Restoration, and are found till about 1710 or 1720, when a pot with swelling drum and dome-shaped lid, with or without a knob, was introduced, of a fashion so well known at the present day, both in silver and pewter, that it is unnecessary to describe it more fully.” The Tankards of the last century are as often found with lids as without them, a good example being seen in the three-handled loving-cup (see Fig. 752), which has crowned many a goodly feast in the present and past generation. TANSY (Fr. Tanaisie ; Ger. Ramfarn).—An aro- matic bitter-tasting plant (Tanacetum vulgare), at one time much used in English cookery to flavour puddings, cakes, and omelets. The plant grows from 1ft. to 2ft. high, with repeatedly divided, deeply-cut leaves, and a yellow flower. A variety with curled leaves is sometimes cultivated as a garnish for dishes. Essence of Tansy.—Put a pressed down quart of dry Tansy leaves into a half-gallon jar, fill up with gin, and let it stand for six days; then filter and bottle. Should the leaves be fresh, about two-thirds of the quantity will be sufficient. Tansy Julep.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar in 1 wineglassful of syrup at the bottom of a large glass, pour in 1 wineglassful of gin with a little vinegar, fill up the glass with crushed ice, arrange six or seven freshly gathered Tansy leaves on top, put in a few cherries, currants, or any like fruit, mb the rim of the glass with lemon, and serve. Tansy Pudding.—(1) Pour 3 table-spoonfuls of the juice of Tansy, obtained by bruising, over sufficient breadcrumbs to absorb it, and mix in 3oz. of blanched sweet almonds, pounded with 2oz. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of grated orange-peel, and 2oz. of butter; pour in six eggs beaten up with 2 breakfast-capfuls of cream, mix thoroughly, put the mixture into a basin, and boil in a saucepan of water until done. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over melted butter sauce, sweetened to taste and flavoured with lemon-juice, and serve. The pudding may also be baked, and in that case the sauce will not be required. (2) Put a small piece of lemon-peel and two laurel- leaves in ]qt. of milk, and boil it. Break up Jib. of maple biscuits into a basin, strain the boiling milk over them, and stir in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the