TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 590 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. TIMBALES.—The literal translation of this French word would be “Kettledrums,” the original dishes so named partaking of tlie shape peculiar to those instruments. Custom has, however, extended the adaptation to a variety of shapes, all partaking more or less of a bell-like conforma- tion (see Fig. 788), though in some rare cases the sides and top are Hat and angular. Timbales may be either sweet or savoury, large ones con- stituting dishes by themselves, and small ones being used as garnishes for more important preparations. They should be sufficiently firm when cooked to maintain their distinctive shapes after leaving the mould, whilst being tender and tasty to the palate. Numerous receipts for the preparation of Timbales will be found under special headings, such as Apples, Aiuour- ettes, Brioches, Cabbages, &c. The following are good examples of how Timbales should be made : Fig. 788. Timbale-moulds (Adams and Son). Savoury Timbales. (1) Sift lib. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt on to a board, make a bay in the cent,re, add the yolks of fourteen eggs, and make the whole into a stiff paste, giving it five or six turns, and working it well with the wrists. Have ready some small well-buttered timbale-moulds, line them with the paste rolled out very thin, taking care that no air bubbles are between the moulds and paste, and that the paste does not get folded or doubled. Fill the bottoms with slices of bacon and finely-chopped beef-suet, cover with more of the paste, fastening the edges securely by wetting them; wet this paste, and put on a cover the same size as the moulds. Brush them over slightly with egg, make a small hole in the centre, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Take them out, and turn out of the moulds; cut a circular piece out of the top of each, which will serve as a cover, and remove the suet and bacon. Fill them with a rich thick fricassee made of chicken, partridge, sweetbreads, truffles, mush- rooms, &c., put on the covers, brush them over with beaten egg or warmed meat glaze, and serve at once. These Timbales may be filled with any kind of rich ragout, and served very hot. (2) Sift I pint of flour on to a table, make a well in the centre, in which put loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a little water; work the ingredients together till thoroughly incorporated. Dredge a little more flour over the table and roll the paste out on it; fold it over and roll it out again. Cut the paste into pieces 2in. long, dredge them over with flour, then cut each piece into very fine strips. Arrange the strips on a sheet of paper, and dry them for an hour, turn- ing occasionally, then poach them in boiling salted water for eight minutes. Drain the paste, leave it till quite dry, then put it in a saucepan of boiling water with an onion stuck with two cloves, a small piece of carrot, and a little salt, and boil. When cooked, drain the paste, and mix with it in the saucepan a small quantity of good gravy, some grated Gruyere and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities, a small quantity of grated household cheese, and some finely-minced breast of roasted chicken. Warm all together; line a buttered timbale-mould with a light paste, fill it with the mixture, and cover with a flat of the same paste, moistening and pressing the edges together; make a small bole in the centre, and bake it. When cooked, turn the Timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy round, and serve. (3) Butter well six small timbale-moulds, and line them with strips of plain unsweetened pancake. Take a preparation of puree of chicken, and the same quantity of raw forcemeat, add to it a reduced salpicon, and with this fill the moulds. Cover with small round pieces of the pancake, then steam them in the oven for about eight minutes. Turn them out of the moulds, arrange them on a hot dish, pour 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce over them, and serve. Timbales—continued. (4) Butter six timbale-moulds I-) in. high by 2Jin. in diameter. Arrange them on a dessert-dish covered with a folded napkin, and lay them in a cool place until wanted. Put into a china bowl half a fine, well cleaned, sound Camembert cheese, mash it thoroughly with a fork, and drop on to it very gradually \\ liqueur-glassfuls of old brandy. Cut into small pieces two medium-sized, cooked, throat sweetbreads, and add them to the cheese, mixing all thoroughly. Season with \ teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg, stirring well for a minute longer. Then add four medium-sized, chopped truffles, and mix again. Divide the above preparation equally into the six timbale moulds, cover each with a thin slice of truffle previously dipped in brandy, and send to table. Sweet Timbale.—(1) Put 6oz. of flour in a basin, add a little salt, and mix it till quite smooth with 14 pints of milk; put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, then pour in the batter through a sieve. Stir the mixture over the tire and boil it for a few minutes. Pour the mixture into a plain timbale-mould and bake it. When cooked, turn the Timbale out of the mould and leave it to cool. Level it off straight on the top, then turn it over and hollow out the interior. Coat the sides with orange-icing sugar, and decorate them with preserved fruits. Place the Timbale on a dish, fill the hollow with an orange- flavoured ploinbiere and minced preserved fruit, piling it above the Timbale. Garnish the base with small jam tarts, put a circle of preserved greengages on the top of the Timbale, and serve. (2) Line a timbale-mould with Genoese paste and stand it on ice. Clarify 2oz. of gelatine by whisking it in a stewpan over the fire, with fib. of caster sugar, the juice of one lemon, the whipped whites of three eggs and lqt. of water. When it boils take it off the fire, strain it two or three times (till clear) through a jelly-bag, let it get cold, then add 1 pint of champagne. Cut some pears and apples that have been boiled in syrup, some dried cherries, preserved apricots and greengages, to an olive shape, mix the 1 jelly and fruits together, and stand it on ice in a saute- pan; when nearly set, fill the lined pudding-mould with 1 it, and stand it on ice for two hours. Moisten some apricot jam with a little syrup, and mask the Timbale with it when turned out of the mould. (3) Line a timbale mould with Genoese paste. Cook four large apples, each peeled and cut into eight pieces, in syrup, drain them, and when they are cold mix with them some kirschenwasser jelly. Boil lib. of stoned cherries for five minutes in syrup at 30deg.; drain them, crack forty of the stones, and blanch and peel the kernels. V hen t he jelly is partly set, fill the Timbale with layers of that and the fruit, strewing in some of the cherry-kernels while filling. Stand it on ice and let it freeze for two hours. When ready to serve turn it out of the mould, and glaze with some of the syrup in which the cherries were boiled, having previously reduced it. (4) Mix in a bowl 4lb. of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and four eggs; when well mixed, add |lb. of melted butter, spread the paste on a well buttered baking-sheet) and bake in a moderate oven until it is a pale golden colour. Line a plain timbale-mould with this paste, having first put a round of paper at the bottom, and then stand it on ice. Take fib. of pineapple, pre- viously cooked in syrup, and cut in small dice. Stand it in a saute pan on ice till nearly set, then fill the Timbale with it. Pack the mould in ice and freeze the Timbale for two hours. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, moisten a little apricot jam with syrup, and use it to glaze the Timbale. # TINCTURES.—Alcoholic essences obtained by maceration or percolation, and sometimes used as a flavouring. TINNED FRUITS—See Fruit. TINNED MEATS.—See Australian Meat. TINNED VEGETABLES.—See Vegetables.