513 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 L Stock—continued. for six or seven hours. At the end of that time, skim the Stock again, then strain it through a tammy into a basin. When it is cold, remove all the fat off the top, and it is ready for use. Sark Stock.—Procure a piece from the shin or lower part of a round of beef with an equal weight of bones, and put the bones in a stockpot. Wipe the meat over with a cloth dipped in cold water, and cut it into nice-sized pieces. Peel the required quantity of onions, and fry them in butter until darkly browned ; then put in the pieces of meat, and brown them also. Put the meat in the stock- pot with the bones, add any other trimmings of meat that may be handy, fill up with cold water, and place it over the fire. When the liquor boils, take the stockpot off the fire, remove the scum, put in the browned onions with some prepared carrots and turnips, celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a flavouring of allspice, ground pepper, cloves, celery-seeds, and salt; add also 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar colouring or caramel. Keep the Stock simmer- ing slowly at the edge of the fire until the meat is in rags, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a large basin. The Stock should never be allowed to remain in an iron kettle or stockpot after it is made. Set the basin in a cool place, keeping it uncovered. Leave the fat which forms at the top of the Stock in a thick cake until the Stock is needed, as it excludes the air and thus helps to keep the Stock. It will keep at least a week longer in the winter if it be made without vegetables. A little fresh charcoal tied in a muslin bag and boiled in the Stock is said to restore it when only slightly changed. In very warm weather, only a sufficient quantity for each day should be made, as it sometimes spoils in one night. Pir&t Stock. —Procure a piece of beef, the breast part will do, put it into a stockpot with some trimmings of beef, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water, allowing about 2 pints to lib. of meat, and place it over the fire. Keep it well skimmed, removing the scum directly it rises to the top, and pouring in occasionally a little cold water to send up the scum. When quite clear put in a few pre- pared vegetables such as carrots, turnips, onions stuck with cloves, celery, and leeks. Add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, move the stockpot to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for five hours. Skim off all the fat, and strain the broth through a fine hair sieve into a basin. When using the broth, pour it out carefully so as not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. This broth is used for making any other kind of broth. General Stock.—(1) Take 4lb. of any fresh trimmings of lean meat and bones, cut the meat off the bones and break them ; put them into a stockpot together with the meat a small quantity of salt, and 5qts. of water ; place the stock- pot over the fire and let the contents boil. Skim the stock, then add some scraped and washed carrot, a peeled onion or two, and one or two trimmed and washed leeks; cover the pot close, and let the contents boil gently for five hours. Strain the Stock, pour it into a bowl, and let it stand in a cold place till required for use. (2) Any meat or bones and trimmings of any kind of poultry, game, ham, and bacon can be used to make Stock. They should be put in the stockpot with plenty of sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions; pieces of celery also are a great improvement to the flavour of the Stock. A bunch of sweet herbs should be added, with pepper, salt, and spices to taste. Pour in the water, judging the amount by the quantity of ingredients in the pot, then put the lid on, and leave it at the edge of the fire, where the Stock may simmer, but not boil, for several hours, until all the goodness is extracted from the meat, &c. When sufficiently stewed, strain the liquor off into a large bowl, and let it stand until quite cold. When the soup is wanted for use, all the fat should be skimmed off the top, and all the sediment that has settled at the bottom should be removed. It may then be warmed up again, with any addition required. Medium Stock.—Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and melt it; then put in 41b. of shin of beef cut into small pieces, a ham-bone, about 21b. of any other kind of meat bones, For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. VOL II. Stock—continued. two carrots, one turnip, and one large onion, all peeled, and with four cloves stuck in the onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few sticks of celery cut into small pieces, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in about 11 breakfast- cupfuls of water, put the saucepan over the lire, and stir the contents until the moisture is reduced to a glaze. The fire should be a brisk one. When reduced, pour in 2f,qts. of water, and leave it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for four or five hours. Keep the Stock well skimmed. W hen sufficiently boiled, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a basin ; leave it until quite cold, the better to enable skimming off the fat. It is then ready for use. Mixed Stock.—Put the trimmings and bones of any kind of meat into a stockpot with lqt. of water for every 21b. of meat and bones, and place it over the fire until the contents come to the boil; skim the stock, move it to the side, and let it simmer very slowly for six hours. At the end of that time, put into the stockpot a bunch of sweet herbs, a moderate-sized onion with six cloves stuck in it, and 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns. Keep the Stock simmering for two hours longer, removing the scum occasionally; then strain it through a tine hair sieve into a large bowl, and set it away in a cool place. On the following morning skim off the fat. Second Stock.—This is made with the bones, meat, vege- tables, &c., that have been previously boiled in the first Stock. After the liquor has been drained off them, pour in about 3qts. of water, and let it simmer for a few hours. Afterwards strain it off into a basin, and keep it in the larder for making sauces, purees, &c., or it may have another quart of water added to it, and boiled until reduced to 1 pint. Then strain it off into a basin. When cold, it will be very stiff, and can be used for glaze. Stock for Vegetable Soups. —Put lib. of wheat bran in a saucepan with lgall. of cold water, place it over a gentle fire, and stir it slowly until it reaches boiling-point. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an-hour-and a-half; then season the Stock with a few peppercorns and a small quantity of salt, and let it simmer for half an hour longer. Strain the Stock, and keep it in a cool larder for use. This Stock will form the foundation for a great variety of vegetable soups. White Stock.—(1) Dissolve in a saucepan on the hot range loz. of very good, finely-shred salt pork, previously well washed, and the same quantity of beef-suet. Add one carrot, one onion, a bouquet of aromatic herbs, twelve whole peppers, and four cloves. Brown these well on a moderate fire for four minutes. Add 4oz. of flour, stir well, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3qts. of plain broth. Add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and stir until it comes to the boil; then let it cook thoroughly for an hour. Strain through a fine sieve. This Stock should be used without any further thickening. (2) Break up a knuckle of veal, and put it in a stock- pot with any trimmings of white meat, such as fowl or rabbit, or both; put in also lib. of ham or bacon, three or four peeled carrots and turnips, two or three small sticks of celery, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay- leaf, a few mushrooms, and a good seasoning of mace, cloves, white peppercorns, and salt. Fill the pot up with water, and stew the contents gently at the side of the fire for five hours. Keep it well skimmed, throwing in a small quantity of cold water occasionally to send the scum to the top. At the end of that time, strain the Stock through a fine hair sieve into a large bowl, and when nearly cold skim off the fat at the top; when using the Stock be careful not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. (3) Wash 61b. of shin of veal and a fowl, and cut them into small pieces. Put Jib. of butter into a stockpot ; when it has melted put in the meats, and cook them over a slow fire for half-an-hour, stirring them occasionally to keep them from burning. Pour in 8qts. of cold water, leave it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then skim it well; move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for six hours. At the end of that time, put in two peeled Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads.