THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 482 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. onion with two cloves stuck in it, one carrot, two leeks, a bunch of green onions, sweet herbs, parsley, two bay- leaves, and the soaked beans; season with pepper and salt, and pour in plenty of cold water. Let the above ingredients simmer gently till the beans are tender; then take them out with a strainer, pound them, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Boil the Soup an hour longer, skimming often till all the scum is removed. Strain the Soup, return it to the saucepan with the puree of beans, and let it boil up again. Put some croutons of fried bread in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, and serve it while very hot. (2) Remove the skins from 1 pint of cold boiled haricot beans, pound them to a paste with a little parsley sauce, mix gradually with it lqt. of well-seasoned stock, and give it a boil. Fry a few croutons of bread in butter, put them into the tureen, and pour the boiling Soup over them. Conti Soup.—A probable corruption of the word Conde, which Soup it resembles in every particular. Cottage Soup.—Put Jib. of any kind of meat cut into small pieces into a saucepan with 2oz. of dripping, one large onion also cut into small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and stir over the fire till lightly browned; then put in two turnips, a stick of celery, and 21b. of leeks, all cut into small pieces, and stir over the fire for a few minutes longer; then add Jib. of well-washed rice, 5qts. of water, and season to taste with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the Soup to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for three-hours-and-a-half, stirring occasionally. When ready to serve, turn the Soup into a soup-tureen. Countess Soup (d la Comtesse).—Put a little more than Jib. of butter into a saucepan and melt it; then put in Jib. of chopped lean ham, one sliced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and fry the contents of the saucepan over a moderate fire for ten minutes. Blanch and cut half- a-dozen throat sweetbreads into slices, put them in the saucepan with the butter, &c., pour in 1 pint of clear broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for half- an-hour. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of flour in with the sweet- breads, stir it over the fire to cook, then turn all in a mortar and pound them. Pour 4qts. of veal stock into a saucepan, put in the pounded mixture, and boil it over a quick fire. Season the Soup with a little sugar, salt, and pepper, pass it through a silk sieve, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again. Put some small round croutons of fried bread into a soup-tureen, with 1 teacup- ful of oil, then pour in the Soup, and serve it while very hot. More veal stock can be added if the Soup be too thick. Crecy Soup (a la Crecy).—(1) Scrape and wash two good- sized carrots, peel and wash two medium-sized turnips, wash and trim a small head of celery, peel a medium-sized onion, and cut them all into slices; put them into hot water, and let them steep for fifteen minutes; then drain them, and put them in a saucepan over the fire with about 2oz. of butter, a couple of ham rashers nicely trimmed, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Pour over them sufficient beef stock to cover. When all the ingredients are well cooked, take the vegetables out, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Strain the broth, put the pulped vegetables into it, return it to the fire, and let it simmer for two hours. Fry a few crusts of bread in butter, and put them into the tureen. Skim the Soup, pour it over the crusts of bread, and serve. (2) Peel and wash some young carrots, chop them, and put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter and a pinch of sugar. Put the lid on the saucepan, and cook the contents slowly, stirring them occasionally. Peel a raw potato, slice it, and put it in with the carrots, adding a little stock, pepper, and salt. Let the vegetables simmer gently till tender, then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, pour in a sufficient quantity of stock, and boil it. Pour the Soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast. (3) Scrape and wash two dozen good bright-coloured carrots, not very large ones, and boil them quite soft in lgall. of water. Peel and slice a dozen large onions, and Soups—continued. fry them brown in Jib. of butter. Pound the carrots in a mortar, then mix the fried onions with them, and add them to the water they were boiled in, together with salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four cloves, and a blade of mace. Let all boil together for an hour, and then strain through a hair sieve, rubbing the vegetables through; put the soup again over the fire, and let it boil fast until it is as thick as cream. Put a little dry boiled rice (boiled as for curry) in a tureen, and pour the Soup over. (4) Peel and wash eight turnips, scrape and wash eight carrots, wash and trim three heads of celery, peel six onions, and cut all up small. Put them into a saucepan with Jib. of butter and a slice of ham, and let them stew gently for an hour, stirring them frequently. When they commence to brown, add as much gravy or broth as will fill the tureen, and let it boil till the vegetables are quite soft. Strain them out, and with the back of a wooden spoon rub them through a sieve; then return the vegetable puree to the Soup, season it with salt and pepper, and let it boil for lialf-an-hour, skimming off any scum that rises. Pour it into a tureen, and serve hot. Crofites-au-Pot Soup.—Remove the bone from a piece of leg of beef, truss the meat, and put it in the stockpot with a few slices of blanched streaky bacon, a little salt, and 6qts. of water. When the water boils, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for lialf-an-hour; then put in the stockpot a knuckle of veal, three leeks, two carrots, one turnip, a head of celery, an onion that has been burnt brown, 1 pinch of chervil, and J table-spoonful of peppercorns and cloves. Blanch a small savoy-cabbage and three large lettuces, and tie them up separately; add them to the other ingredients, and let them boil gently for an hour. At the end of that tune, put in the stockpot two backs of roasted fowls, and ’ let it simmer for three hours longer. Take the vegetables out of the Soup, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the fat off the Soup, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the vegetables, and serve while hot. Crown Prince’s Soup.—Rub 4Jlb. of fresh or bottled cherries through a fine sieve into a basin, put a quarter of the kernels into a mortar, bruise them, put them into a cup or bowl, cover with J bottle of red wine, and let them stand for an hour. Mix lib. of sugar with the cherries, pour over another J bottle of red wine, strain the wine from the kernels, and mix it in. Have ready in a bain-marie about lqt. of rich Soup, put in the cherries, &c., make it hot without boiling, pour it into a tureen over a dozen or so of small hard biscuits, and serve. Crupnic Soup (Polish).—Put about lib. of well-washed pearl-barley into a stewpan, pour over it lqt. of water, and drop in 1 dessert spoonful of kitchen-salt. Let this cook slowlv until the pearl-barley is done. In the mean- time, whilst the pearl-barley is cooking, make about lgall. of strong chicken broth. Drain the pearl-barley and work it against the sides of the stewpan with a spoon, adding a small piece of butter now and again, until the barley is white in colour and creamy in consistence. Drain the chicken broth and stir it into the barley. Put this in a tureen, adding the finely-minced flesh of the chickens used in making the broth, cold vegetables cut into patterns or little dice, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley or fennel, or both. Serve as hot as possible. Cussy Soup (a, la Cussy).—Peel seventeen or eighteen small white onions, cut them into very thin slices, put then into a stewpan with a large lump of butter and 1 table-spoon- ful of moist sugar, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned. Afterwards pour over them a sufficient quantity of hot stock to make the Soup. When boiling, mix in "with it 2 wineglassfuls of the best French brandy, and season with salt and pepper, but not too highly. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, cut them into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the pieces of bread,' put them in a soup-tureen, pour in the Soup, sprinkle in some grated Parmesan cheese, and serve.