453 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Skate—continued. Kettner speaks very highly of this fish, and wrote of it: “ To do him honour at the table there should be music with the Skate, for he loves it. One way of catching him used to be by playing on a fiddle. His love of melody was such that he came to the boat ” to he caught. Skate should always be served with some of its liver cooked separately in salted water, or mashed and passed through Fig. 578. Skate. a sieve and blended with an anchovy-flavoured butter sauce. Skate is crimped by merely cutting it into strips and notching them. The following are favourite receipts for cooking Skate: Baked Fillets of Skate.—Skin the fish, divide it into fillets, and dry them on a cloth. Put the fillets into a saucepan with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, two slices of lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs; dredge over them a little flour, then pour in 1 pint of milk. Add a small lump of salt. When three parts cooked, drain the fillets, put them on a baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven till nicely browned. Put the fillets on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with filed parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of mixed herb sauce. Baked Skate.—Procure one or two rather thick slices of Skate ; butter a baking-dish, arrange on the bottom some scalded and finely-chopped onion and parsley, lay the fish on it, and strew it over with more onion and parsley ; cover it well with grated breadcrumb, and pour round it a little clear stock that has been flavoured with mushroom ketchup. Bake it for about a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, pour its cooking-liquor round it, garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Boiled Crimped Skate.—(1) Clean, skin, and cut the Skate into slices, roll the slices up separately, and tie them with string. Boil them in salted water. About twenty minutes boiling will be sufficient. Drain them well, remove the string, lay them on a hot dish, pour anchovy sauce over them, and serve hot. _ (2) Crimp the Skate, put it in a fish-kettle with suffi- cient water to cover, a lump of salt, and a small quantity of vinegar, and boil it. Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan, and brown it over the fire, but take care it does not burn. Next put in with the butter 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and 2 table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; season to’ taste with salt and pepper. When the Skate is cooked, drain it carefully Skate—continued. and lay it on a hot dish, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 579), and serve while very hot with the butter sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Clean the Skate and cut it into strips; curl each strip, and put a piece of liver in the centre. Boil the Skate in slightly-salted water. When cooked, put the Skate on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown butter sauce. Boiled Fillets of Skate.—Boil two fillets of Skate in salted water; blanch and pound the liver of the Skate, put it in a saucepan with § pint of butter sauce, 1 tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. When cooked, drain the fillets and put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Boiled Skate.—Pare and cut off the fins from about 4lb. of Skate, divide it into six square pieces, wash them well, being very careful to scrape them with a sharp knife so as to remove the mucus adhering to it, and put the pieces into a saucepan in which has been already placed one sliced carrot, one onion, half a bunch of parsley, one sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, b handful of whole peppers, plenty of salt (at least 1 handful), and | break- fast- cupful of 'vinegar. Cover the fish well with water, boil it over a moderate fire for forty-five minutes, take it off, and lift out the pieces of Skate with a skimmer; lay them on a table, remove the skin from both sides, place them on a deep dish, slowly strain over the stock, and serve with any kind of sauce desired. Boiled Skate with Black Butter.—Boil the Skate till tender with a little onion, parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, pepper, salt, and vinegar in the water. Put some fried parsley in the centre of a hot dish, and place some black butter round it. Divide the Skate into kite-shaped pieces, put them on the butter, and serve. Fricasseed Skate.—Put a cleaned Skate into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, a little grated nutmeg, and a lump of salt; cover the fish with boiling water, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time, remove the herbs from the liquor, add 1 teacupful of cream, loz. of butter rolled in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stir the fricassee over the fire till thick and smooth, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemons, and serve. Fried Skate.—(1) Cut some pieces of Skate of a convenient size, sprinkle a little salt over them, brush them over with the yolk of an egg beaten quite light, roll them in Fig. 580. Fried Skate. a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry them a nice brown in boiling lard. Serve on a napkin folded on a hot dish, with shrimp sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut the Skate into square pieces, dip them in beaten egg, and then roll them about in a mixture of finely- chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and sifted breadcrumbs, so that they are completely covered with it. Fry them to a golden brown in boiling lard, and serve with a rich brown gravy. (3) Blanch and divide into fillets a large piece of Skate; put them into a basin with some chopped sweet herbs, pepper, and salt, cover with vinegar and warmed butter, anil leave them to steep for five hours. At the end of that time drain and dry the fillets on a cloth, dip them in milk, then in flour, and fry them in boiling fat over a quick fire. When nicely browned, drain the Skate, put it on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin, garnish with fried celery-leaves (see Fig. 580), and serve.