THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 632 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads Trussing—continued. When served, such a galantine will show the marks of the loop lacing, therefore it is better to use tape, if convenient, as that leaves much lighter depressions. Another example of this mode of Trussing is the collared breast (see Fig. 851), the boned leg of mutton (see Fig. 852), and rolled belly of pork (see Fig. 853). Another Fig. 857. Rump of Beef in Parisian Style. example of simple tying, but with separate threads, is the paupiette (see Fig. 854), which consists of a rect- angular thin slice of meat spread with forcemeat and rolled tightly into the shape shown. The tying principle is employed in Trussing a saddle of mutton, lamb, or venison, the flaps or flanks being Fig. 858. Fillet of Beef Trimmed and Larded for Baking. turned in to cover the kidneys, and secured in this position by strings (see Fig. 855). In some cases, especially venison, the tail is curled over the back and fixed in that position by a small skewer passing through the curled tail into the flesh of the loin. Ribs of beef prepared for boiling (see Fig. 856), and the rump of beef Fig. 859. Cook’s Knife. as prepared by Parisian cooks (see Fig. 857), are folded up and tied round in a similar manner. The fillet of beef (see Fig. 858), brisket, and round are all trussed with skewers and string, the thin parts being rolled round the thicker parts and a large skewer driven in, right through in the case of the round, and then tied securely in this Fig. 860. Boning-knife. position by string, which should be tied in such a manner that it will do to suspend the joint to the jack-hook when roasting. Before going further into this subject, it will be ad- visable to describe the appliances that will be found useful for Trussing. Trussing—continued. In the first place there is the cook’s knife, two sizes of which should be close at hand; the larger (see Fig. 859) is useful for cutting off toes, heads, pinions, ragged ends, Fig. 861. Trussing-needle. &c., and the smaller (see Fig. 860) for cutting out pieces of gristle, bone, or other undesirable parts. The point of the smaller one also serves for making holes through Fig. 862. Set of Skewers on Frame. integuments, which are sometimes tough, so that the skewer may pass easily through them into the softer flesh. The next requisite is a set of iron skewers (see Fig. 862) of different sizes ; but care should be taken to have plenty of the size most frequently used, which will probably be about 5in. or 6in. long. A pair of strong scissors, such as would be used for trimming fish fins (see Fig. 864. Flour-mop. Fig. 865) are almost^andispensable. Some Trussing needles (see Fig. 861) of various sizes, some straight and some curved, about Sin. long being the more convenient