443 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. on a silver dish, strain the macaroni and lay it over them, pour the gravy from the kidneys round, strew grated Parmesan cheese on the top, dust over with salt and pepper, brown under a salamander, and serve on a flat dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 565). Sheep’s-Kidney Omelet.—Cut three or four Sheep’s Kidneys into eight pieces each, and roll each piece in flour. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, place it over the fire until hot, then put in the pieces of kidney, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Pour about f of a breakfast-cupful of brown stock over the kidneys, also 4 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. Beat six eggs thoroughly, and season them with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the fire until the blue smoke arises, then pour in half of the beaten egg. When the omelet is nearly firm, pour half of the stewed kidney over it, and fold the omelet over so that the outer edges meet. Turn the omelet on to a hot dish, proceed as before with the remaining egg and kidney, then turn the omelet on to the dish with the other one, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sheep’s-Kidney Sautes.—(1) Skin the kidneys, partially boil them, and cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a saute-pan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, put in the kidneys, and fry them for a few minutes, seasoning them with salt and pepper. Put loz. of blitter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned; 'then stir in 1 teacupful of stock and 1 teacupful of sherry. Boil for two or three minutes, then put in the kidneys with a small quantity of chopped parsley. Leave the kidneys at the side.of the fire until very hot, but do not let the liquor boil again; then turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Take off the skin from six kidneys, and cut them into slices or pieces the size of a florin. In the meantime, put a few thin slices of bacon in an omelet-pan with a little butter and fry them. When they are done, add the pieces of kidney, tossing the pan frequently so as to cook the kidney equally. When they are cooked, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and strew over them a little finely-minced parsley and shallot, and a little flour. Mix them well with a spoon, and add I wineglassful of white champagne, made very hot but not boiling, or the kidney will be uneatable. Bust over a little cayenne, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. (3) Pare well twelve Sheep’s Kidneys, and cut them into slices. Put them into a frying-pan -with loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and toss them over the fire for six minutes. Add 1 pint of Madeira sauce, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add another small piece of fresh butter, toss well again without boiling, and serve. Sheep s-Kidney Soup.—Take oft the skin from four Sheep’s ' Kidneys, chop them up with an equal bulk of beef kidneys, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry them in a little butter for ten minutes. Strain off the fat, add 3 pints of brown stock and 2 table-spoonfuls of washed lice, and .boil until the rice is quite cooked. Strain, and put the rice and meat in a mortar, pound it well, and pass it through a fine sieve. Add this to the stock, warm it up without letting it boil, and serve with some fried pieces of bread in it. Sheep’s-Kidney Toasts.—(1) Mince two or three Sheep’s Kidneys, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and toss them about over the fire until cooked. Cut some slices of bread off a tin loaf, toast them a golden brown, butter them, and trim off all the crusts. Move the kidneys to the side of the fire, and stir in with them the beaten yolk of an egg and the strained juice of half a small lemon. Spread the mixture over the pieces of toast, put them on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Chop four Sheep’s Kidneys, put £ table-spoonful of chopped parsley in a stewpan with two finely chopped Sheep—continued. shallots and a lump of butter, and fry them two or three minutes; then put in the kidneys, and fry them till tender. When cooked, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add J table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, and stir it over the fire until the flour is cooked, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cut two slices of bread about tin. thick, trim off the crusts, and toast them a delicate brown; then butter them, spread the above mixture on them, cover them with fried breadcrumbs, and strew them thickly over with grated Parmesan cheese. Brown them under a salamander, and dust them over with a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, put the toasts on it, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Kidneys.—(1) Skin and cut four kidneys into three pieces each lengthwise, wash them, and wipe them dry. Put jll> butter into a saucepan, and as soon as it is warm put in the sliced kidneys, with a little grated lemon-peel, pepper and salt -to taste, a very little mace, 1 teaspoonful of chopped onion, and 1 breakfast-cupful of good brown gravy. Close the lid of the saucepan, let the contents simmer for ten or twelve minutes, and add the strained juice of half a lemon Have some toast or fried bread laid on a hot dish, take the kidneys from the sauce- pan, and lay them on it. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, let it boil a minute or two, pour it over the kidneys, and serve at once. (2) Put some Sheep’s Kidneys into a pan with a little salted water, and let them soak for a few hours. Take them out, dry them, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and boil until tender. Take them out of the water, drain, and roll them in flour; then put them in a stewpan with a little butter and a few table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and cook them until done. Dust them over with a little salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Skin the kidneys and partially boil them, cut them into slices, and dredge them over with flour, salt, and pepper. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it has melted, put in the slices of kidney, and toss them about for a few minutes. Pour in with tlie kidneys a moderate quantity of broth, 1 wine- glassful of sherry, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and add a small quantity of minced parsley. Boil the kidneys very gently at the edge of the lire for about ten minutes, then put them on a hot dish, pour their gravy over, and serve them. (4) Remove the skin and sinewy parts from eight kidneys, split them into halves, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter and a small quantity of minced shallots, and fry them quickly. When they are set, sprinkle them over with a little salt and cayenne, take them out with a strainer, and put them in a basin. Add | wineglassful of Madeira to the pan, let it reduce to half its original quantity, pour in its equal bulk of melted glaze, and thicken with a little butter rolled in flour. As soon as it boils, put in the kidneys, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced Fig. 566. Stewed Sheep's Kidneys. cooked lean ham, and a little tarragon, also chopped very fine. Take out the kidneys, arrange them very tastefully on a dish, pour over the sauce, and garnish with sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 566). Toasted Sheep’s Kidneys.—Take three Sheep’s Kidneys, Skin them, cut them lengthwise into three, and lay them on a very hot tin dish close in front of a clear hot fire. I hen take jib. of salted pork cut into thin slices, and