587 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Thrushes—continued. Remove the pan from the oven, take off the lid, and let the Thrushes cool. Take them out, drain, trim, and remove the paper; dip them into hot chaudfroid sauce, place them on a baking-sheet, let the sauce get quite cold on them, put the birds carefully on a dish, piling them up, garnish with croutons of jelly, and serve. Crepinettes of Thrushes.—Cut the fillets off nine or ten Thrushes, remove the skin, cut them in halves, put them into a basin with an equal bulk of blanched fat bacon and raw truffles also cut up into pieces, season well, and pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of white wine or brandy. Put the intestines and livers of the Thrushes, together with a few fowl’s livers, into a saucepan, add a little rasped bacon, a little chopped onion, and the trimmings of the truffles, and cook quickly until the whole is done. Let it cool, put it into a mortar and pound it; mix in lib. of pork that has also been pounded, put the mixture into a basin, and pour over the liquor from the marinaded fillets of Thrushes. Beat the thick end of a pig’s caul with a knife to flatten it, cut it into small squares, put a layer of the liver forcemeat on each one, and over that the fillets of Thrushes, inter- mixed with the bacon and truffles. Cover with another layer of the forcemeat, making the crepinettes into a flat oblong square, and cover with the pig’s caul, taking care to have no opening. Put these crepinettes on a grid- iron over a clear fire, and broil them for about seventeen minutes; put them on a dish when done, pour round a gravy made with the bones of the Thrushes and a few of the trimmings of the truffles, and serve. Puree of Thrushes with Rice.—Pluck, singe, and draw six or eight Thrashes; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of butter, salt, and pepper to taste, and cook them until quite tender. Take them out, pull off all the meat, let it get cool, and pound it well in a mortar, adding gradually 4 table-spoonfuls of rice boiled in rich broth, and add also the yolks of three eggs. Put a little butter and Hour into a saucepan, cook gently for a few minutes, without the Hour being allowed to colour, pour in some broth, sufficient to make the required quantity of soup, boil up once, stir well, remove the saucepan to the side of the Hre, and let the liquor simmer for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim well, pour a little of the liquor in with the pounded birds, rub through a fine sieve into the soup, turn it into a tureen, and serve. Roasted Thrushes.—Pluck and singe the required number of Thrushes, blanch them, but do not draw them. Cover over with vine leaves and thin slices of bacon, tying them round; run a skewer lengthwise through the body (see Fig. 782), fasten the Thrushes to a spit by this means, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with their Fig. 782. Boasted Thrushes. drippings and butter. When they are done, put them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and sprinkle with a little white pepper; brown some pieces of bread in the dripping pan, and serve as a garnish. Salmis of Thrushes.—Pluck and singe eight Thrashes and roast them without drawing. Take them off the spit when done, chop each one in halves, trim and place them in a saucepan without their intestines, pour over a little gravy, and glaze them. Put the saucepan in a bain-marie and keep the birds hot. Put the trimmings into a sauce- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, and pour over a little white wine and gravy to moisten; cover the pan, boil the contents for a few minutes, strain the liquor into a basin, and keep it hot likewise. Put H teacupfuls of brown Thrushes—continued. sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, stirring occasionally; add slowly the liquor from the trimmings, and when the whole is thick pour it over the Thrushes. Put the livers and intestines of the Thrashes into a frying-pan, add two or three fowl’s livers and a little bacon cut up small, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and fry them until they are all done over a quick fire; turn them into a mortar, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve into a basin. Have ready ten or twelve small slices of bread, cut either round or oblong and fried in butter, mask them with the liver puree, curving or arching the mixture over a little; glaze them with butter, and keep them hot at the entrance of the oven. Put them round the dish, and serve. Stewed Thrushes.—Pluck and singe one dozen Thrashes, remove the pouches and gizzards, push the heads into the bodies, and cross the legs; place them in a saucepan with a little butter and a few slices of fat bacon, sprinkle them over with a little salt, and cook over a brisk fire, turning them so as to do both sides. When they are nearly done, sprinkle with a few juniper-berries' mixed up with 1 tea- cupful of breadcrumbs; put the saucepan in the oven, and let it remain until the birds are quite done. Put them with the contents of the saucepan on a dish, turn 2 table- spoonfuls of rich gravy into the saucepan, boil it up, add a little glaze to strengthen the gravy, pour this round the dish, and serve very hot. Thrushes au aG-ratin.—Pluck, draw, and bone seven or eight Thrushes, cover with game forcemeat, and roll up, giving them as long a form as possible. Cover the birds with paper, put them in a saucepan, keeping them close together, pour over a little rich gravy to moisten them, put a piece of paper over the lot, place the lid on the pan, cover with hot ashes, and braise on a moderate fire for about twelve minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the Thrushes cool in the liquor, and split them lengthwise. Put a flat of paste at the bottom of a gratin-dish, cover with a layer of cooked chicken forcemeat, put the halves of Thrushes on the top in a circle, with a little of the forcemeat in the centre to raise the ends of the halves of Thrushes, fill the centre with a piece of bread masked with strips of fat bacon, put a piece of paper round the outer ends of the halves of birds, tie it with string to keep it in its proper position, and cover the birds with thin slices of fat bacon. Put the gratin-dish into a moderate oven, and cook the.contents for about twenty-five minutes. Take it out when done, remove the paper and piece of bread, take off the fat very carefully, slip the gratin on a dish, mask the birds with a little hot brown sauce, and serve with cooked button- mushrooms in the centre. Thrushes a la Paysanne. -Pluck and singe half-a-dozen or so Thrushes, trass, and fasten them to a spit. Roast them in front of a clear fire, and when well done set fire to a lump of fat bacon tied up in a sheet of paper, and baste the Thrushes with the drippings. Chop fine a few shallots, put them on a dish, and mix in a small piece of butter, the juice of one lemon, a few drops of vinegar, and a small quantity of water or weak gravy; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the birds on this, and serve at once. Thrushes in Cases served with Truffles.—Bone one dozen Thrashes ; prepare a galantine of forcemeat with the flesh of the legs, some game-flesh, and an equal quantity of fresh bacon, season it well, and mix with it four peeled and chopped truffles. Season the birds, stuff them with the prepared mixture, and sew them up, making one end pointed and the other end round. Wrap the birds separ- ately in cloths, tie them with string, and cook in some good stock. When the galantines are cooked, remove the cloths and bind them up in fresh ones to keep them a good shape while getting cold. Cook some truffles, leave them till cold, then dip them in melted meat glaze. Take the galantines out of the cloths, trim and brush them over with glaze, rising a paste-brush for the purpose, then coat them thinly with some chaudfroid sauce. Pro- cure one dozen plaited paper cases, the same shape as the galantines, and put a small quantity of chopped aspic and a bird in each. Place round fried bread croutons,