552 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. some live embers on the top, and glaze the Sweetbreads over a moderate lire, basting them occasionally with the cooking-liquor. Pick the stalks off 3lb. of sorrel, wash it in several waters, then drain and put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water and a little salt. Boil the sorrel for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it at the same time to prevent it from burning, then drain it well through a fine hair sieve. Turn the sorrel on to the table and chop it fine, then put it in a stewpan with 1 Joz. of butter and loz. of flour ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of broth and stir it over the fire for twenty minutes. Beat three eggs with \ teacupful of milk, then mix them with the sorrel, and stir it very quickly over the fire for five minutes. Turn the sorrel on to a hot dish and smooth it over. When lightly browned, drain the Sweetbreads and arrange them on the dish of sorrel. If too thick, mix a little more broth with the gravy; boil it up again, then serve it in a sauceboat with the Sweetbreads. Sweetbread. Soup.—(l)Puta large Sweetbread in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient cold water to cover it; place it over the lire until warm, then strain the water off and pour in some cold. Repeat this five or six times, pouring the water off directly it becomes warm and adding more cold water, or until the Sweetbread is very white, then take off the outer skin and cut the meat into small pieces. Put 3 pints of clear white soup into a saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the pieces of Sweetbread and boil them for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plateful of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Steep a Sweetbread in cold water till all the blood is washed out, then put it in a saucepan of boiling water and boil for about fifteen minutes. Take the outside skin off the Sweetbread, cut the meat into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and fry till just lightly coloured, then drain off the butter and pour in the desired quantity of white veal soup. When boiling, turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of fried bread croutons or sippets of toast. Sweetbread Tart (Tourte).—Prepare some veal quenelle forcemeat, and mix a few table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs with it, after it has been passed through a fine hair sieve. Blanch four Sweetbreads, drain them, and leave till cool; then cut them into thick slices. Put a lump of butter in a frying- or sautd-pan, melt it, put in the slices of Sweetbreads, dust some pepper and salt over them, and fry on both sides. When the Sweetbreads have set, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira; boil it quickly till the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Put in with the Sweetbreads 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, onions, and shallots, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then move the frying-pan back. Butter a baking- sheet, put a flat round of short-paste on it, spread a layer of the veal forcemeat in the centre, then arrange the Sweetbreads, herbs, and a few slices of raw ham on it, building it in a dome shape. Cover the whole with a thin layer of forcemeat, and cut a strip of paste Hin. wide and long enough to surround the dome. Roll the remainder out into a thin flat, cover the dome with it, press it to the under flat of paste, leaving a narrow edge all round, which moisten and fix with the strip of paste on it in an upright position, forming a sort of wall round the tourte. Brash the tourte over with beaten egg and bake in a • moderate oven. When cooked, slip the tourte off the baking-sheet on to a hot dish, cut a round hole in the top, put in it some small mushrooms cooked as for garnish, cover again, and serve the tourte. Sweetbread in White Sauce.—Put a Sweetbread in a bowl, cover it with cold water, and let it steep for an hour or two. Drain the Sweetbread, put it in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, move the saucepan a little off the lire so that the Sweetbread may cook slowly for half-an - hour. At the end of that time plunge the Sweetbread into a basin of cold water, then drain it, trim off the fat, and cut it into small pieces. Put \ table-spoonful of Sweetbreads—continued. arrowroot into a basin and mix it smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; turn it into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till boiling, then put in the Sweetbread, season to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer gently at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. At the end of that time, turn the Sweetbread and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve hot. Timbale of Sweetbread.—(1) Wash some Sweetbreads, put them in a saucepan with cold water and a lump of salt, and boil for ten minutes; next put them into cold water, leave them until quite cold, then lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put the Sweetbreads in a stewpan with some well-flavoured stock, which should reach to a little above half their height, and stew them gently for an hour, basting them frequently. When cooked, leave them until cold, then cut them into thin slices. Butter a timbale-mould and line it with short-paste about J-in. in thickness, fill it with alternate layers of Sweetbread, nicely-flavoured forcemeat, and mushrooms, seasoning between each layer with salt and pepper. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Sweetbreads, skim it well, and pour it over the contents of the mould. Cover the timbale with paste and put it in the oven, fixing it in position with ashes heaped up on both sides. When baked, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, garnish with mushroom-tops and parsley, and serve. (2) Blanch three Sweetbreads, press them between two plates till cold, then cut them into collops. Mince about Jib. of fresh pork, and mix with it a few chopped truffles. Chop three or four onions, shallots, and mushrooms, and fry them in a little bacon-fat; when their moisture has evaporated somewhat put in 6 table-spoonfuls of raw ham that has been cut into small pieces and the collops of Sweetbreads, dust some salt and pepper over them, and fry for a few minutes over a brisk fire. When the Sweet- breads are set, pour in a little more than \ teacupful of white wine, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and fry them for a few minutes longer; take them off the fire and leave till cold. Prepare some rich short-paste, roll it out, and cut it into long strips, which roll into strings the size of macaroni. Butter the inside of a dome-shaped mould, then line it with the strips of paste, beginning from the centre. Cover the paste with a thin layer of the minced pork and truffles, then fill the mould with alternate layers of the ragout of ham and Sweetbreads, and blanched calf’s brains, cut into pieces like the Sweet- breads. Put a flat round of paste on the top of the timbale, moisten the edges with a little water, and press them together. Stand the mould on a baking-sheet, surround it with ashes, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, make a small hole in the cover of the timbale, and pour in 1 large teacupful of rather thick brown sauce. Turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, put a small mushroom on the top, and serve. Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbreads.—Clean and wash the required number of Sweetbreads, cover them with water, and boil for twenty minutes. Roll a piece of putt paste out at four turns to a 7in. square, keep it in the ice-chest for lialf-an- hour, then roll it into a lOin. square. Place the square of paste on a plate about 9|in. in diameter, and cut round the edge with a sharp knife. Put a plate about 7in. in diameter over the paste and cut round it, allowing the knife to go two-thirds through the paste. Lay the paste on a baking-sheet, put it in a hot oven, but afterwards slackening the heat a little, and cook it for about forty minutes. When cooked, lift the centre piece out of the vol-au-vent, and scrape out the soft inside paste. Cut the Sweetbreads into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with some cream sauce, boil them up, then turn all into the vol-au-vent; put the cover on, and serve. SWEET HERBS.—Sec Herbs. SWEETMEATS.—See Sugar. SWEET SAUCE.—See Sauces.