658 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. hand, and let all these ingredients brown together. When they are brown, stir among them 2 heaped table spoonfuls of Hour, and let that brown also; then pour in 4qts. of boiling water, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and 1 level saltspoonful of pepper, stir the soup thoroughly, and put in the carcase of the Turkey without breaking it; cover the soup-kettle, and let the soup cook slowly for at least two hours. Then remove the carcase of the Turkey, and serve the soup hot with all the other ingredients in it. A wineglassful of sherry poured into the tureen containing the soup is a great improvement, but the soup is excellent without it. Turkey-and-Tongue Cromeskies.—Remove the skin and bones from any remains of cold Turkey, cut the meat into small pieces, and cut half the quantity of cold cooked tongue into pieces the same size. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with loz. of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed; then pour in 1 teacupful of milk, and con- tinue stirring until it boils. Put the Turkey and tongue into the saucepan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, turn the mixture on to a dish, spread it out, and let it get cold. Mix 3oz. of flour smoothly with A table-spoonful of salad oil and 1 teacupful of warm water. When quite smooth, stir in with the flour the well frothed white of one egg. When the Turkey-and- tongue mixture is quite cold, divide it into small pieces, each of which roll in a thin square slice of bacon. Put a large lump of clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises; then dip the rolls in the batter, drop them in the fat, and fry them for six or seven minutes, turning them about; then take them out of the fat with a slice, and lay them on a sheet of paper to drain. Arrange the cromeskies in a pile on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish them with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Turkey Giblets.—These should always be carefully preserved, as they come in very useful for making sauce or gravy, or they can be used to make dishes by themselves. The old-fashioned system of tucking the gizzard and the liver in the wings when trussing for roasting has been long since condemned by common-sense, they being spoiled by drying and hardening in the cooking. The gizzard, liver, and heart should be put in a pan of water as soon as removed from the interior of the bird. The liver should be well squeezed in the water to disgorge it of its blood, and the heart should be cut open and also disgorged. The gizzard or crop should be cut open, and all the stones and other contents carefully washed out: the thick white lining can then be peeled off. The feet must be scalded and skinned, and any odd pieces of the neck may be also skinned and otherwise cleaned for making gravy. Haricot of Turkey Giblets.—Thoroughly wash and clean some Turkey giblets, put them into a saucepan with boiling water, and let them simmer for a few minutes; then strain them, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, and put them in a stewpan. Put a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs in with the giblets, dust salt and pepper over them, pour in a little good broth, and stew them gently. Peel and wash two or three turnips, and cut them to resemble as nearly as possible heads of garlic; then put them in a saucepan with a little Spanish sauce, and boil them slowly till tender. When the giblets are cooked, drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Potted Turkey Livers.—Prepare three or four livers of Turkeys, put them in a stewpan with some very fat bacon, and fry them until they begin to brown; then put in with them one clove of garlic, one bay-leaf, four or five cloves, and J saltspoonful of pepper. Pour in A pint of red wine, and leave the stewpan over the fire until the liquor boils; then move it to the side, and keep the con- tents simmering gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, take the livers out of the stewpan, put them in a mortar with half their quantity of fresh butter, and pound the whole to a smooth paste, adding more seasoning Turkeys—continued. if required. Press the pounded liver into small jars, leaving a space about Jin. at the top, which fill up with clarified butter or Turkey fat. Cover the jars with paper, and tie them down securely with twine. Keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Stewed Turkey Giblets.—(1) Thoroughly wash and clean the giblets of two Turkeys, consisting of neck, pinions, crop, heart, liver, and claws, and wipe them thoroughly on a cloth. Cut a little over Jib. of streaky bacon into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, three small onions, and the giblets, with the ex- ception of the livers. Fry the giblets till nicely browned, then dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and a little pepper and salt. Stir in gradually a small quantity of white wine and sufficient broth to cover the meat, set the stewpan over the fire, and boil the contents for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then move it to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and simmer gently. Blanch about two dozen small onions, and peel and wash an equal quantity of young carrots and turnips. When the giblets are three-parts done, put in the vegetables, season with salt and pepper, add the livers and A wineglassful of brandy, put some live embers on the lid of the stewpan, and finish cooking the contents. When cooked, put the Fig. 903. Stewed Turkey Giblets. meat in the centre of a deep dish, and garnish round the sides with the vegetables (see Fig. 903). Take the bunch of sweet herbs out of the liquor, skim it, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. (2) Clean and scald some livers and gizzards of* Turkeys, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them over the fire till brown; then put in 5oz. of bacon cut into moderate-sized pieces, and brown them also. Take the giblets and bacon out of the saucepan, dredge in some flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed with the butter; then pour in gradually 1 pint of water, add a bunch of thyme and laurel leaves, one onion stuck with four cloves, and pepper and salt to taste. Put the giblets in the liquor, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. Peel ten or twelve small equal-sized turnips, boil them for fifteen minutes, and then drain them. Put the turnips in the stew, with some sliced carrots and potatoes, chopped celery, and two lumps of sugar. When cooked, skim the fat off the stew, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Turkey Giblets with Turnips.—Clean and blanch a set of Turkey giblets. Divide the neck and gizzard each into four pieces, and cut the pinions and legs in two. Cut Jib. of streaky bacon into slices lin. thick, then divide them into pieces 1 Jin. long; put them into a stew- pan with a pat of butter, and fry till lightly browned. Take the bacon out, put in the giblets, and fry them. Put the bacon back into the stewpan with the giblets, add lib. of turnips cut to the shape of corks, ten button- onions, and loz. of butter. Fry the above ingredients till browned, then put in fifteen peeled potatoes, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lqt. of water ; season with salt and pepper, and let the stew simmer slowly by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Ten minutes before dishing the stew, put in the Turkey livers. When cooked, take the bunch of sweet herbs out of the stew, and skim off the fat. Turn the giblets on to a hot dish, arranging them with the heart, livers, gizzard, and legs in the middle of the dish, put the pieces of neck round them, place the pinions on the top, pour over the remainder of the stew, and serve it.