TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 588 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Thrushes—continued. and then arrange the cooked truffles in the centre; surround the base of them with chopped aspic jelly, Fig. 783. Thrushes in Cases served with Truffles. then stand the cases of birds all round it, the pointed ends up (see Fig. 783); they are then ready for serving. Thrushes Cooked in Brandy.—Pluck and singe a couple of dozen Thrushes, truss, and slightly flatten them. Put them into a saucepan with a little lard or melted bacon-fat, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and two or three onions, mushrooms, and truffles cut in small slices or pieces, and cook over a moderate fire until the birds begin to colour. Pour in 2 tumblerfuls of brandy, light it and toss over the fire until it is burnt out: add sufficient rich gravy to moisten, and simmer gently over a slack fire until the birds are done and tender. Put them on a dish, skim off all the fat from the liquor, add a little salt and pepper if required and the juice of a lemon, pour it over the birds, and serve. Thrush Puree Soup.—(1) Put |gall. of rich game stock into a saucepan and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Pluck and singe twenty-four Thrushes, roast them, and let them get cold. Cue up the fillets of half, and put them into a small saucepan to warm. Turn all the livers and intestines into a mortar, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve. Put the remaining dozen Thrushes, as well as the bones of the other dozen, into a mortar, pound them well with fifteen or sixteen boiled chestnuts, and moisten with the warm game stock. Return this to the saucepan, boil up once, anil remove the pan to the side of the fire. Add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, let it remain for about twenty-five minutes to clarify, skim off the fat, strain it into another saucepan, and keep it warm. Mix a little of this soup with the pounded livers, put the puree into the saucepan with the remaining soup, thicken with the yolks of six eggs, warm it up without boiling, strain into the tureen, add the fillets of Thrushes, anil serve. The livers and intestines should be pounded separ- ately and then mixed, using only a part of the latter; if the whole were used they would make the soup too bitter. (2) Pluck, singe, and draw a dozen Thrushes, put them into a baking-dish with a little butter to baste them, and bake until done; take them out and let them cool. The intestines should also be cooked in a little butter, and afterwards chopped very fine. Take off the legs of the birds, pound them in a mortar to a paste, and mix in an equal bulk of thin slices of bread browned in the oven. When these are all well pounded put them into a sauce- pan, and pour over 3 pints of rich broth. Set the sauce- pan on the fire, boil up once, remove it to the side, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil for about fifteen minutes. Skim off all the fat, strain the soup through a fine sieve into a tureen, add Mb. of well boiled rice and 1 table- spoonful of the chopped intestines passed through a fine sieve, stir well, and serve. Timbale of Thrushes with Truffled Macaroni and Garnished with Mushrooms.—Cut off the fillets from twelve Thrushes, remove the skins, beat them slightly, and fry with butter in a frying-pan over a clear fire, turning them so as to cook both sides. Add f ib. of truffles cut in pieces, and salt and ground allspice to taste : toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes, remove it, add 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce reduced with the trimmings of the truffles, and a small quantity of wine, and let the mixture cool. Boil 5oz. of large whole macaroni in a Thrushes—continued. saucepan of salted water, take them out when done, drain on a cloth, and cut them into pieces about Jin. in length. Fill the hollow of each with a small piece of truffle, and arrange them in a timbale mould, having the end with tlie truffle placed against the sides of the mould. Cover these with a layer of quenelle forcemeat, fill the cavity with the Thrush mixture, cover over with raw force- meat, put the mould into the bain-marie or a saucepan of boiling water, and poach for about forty-five minutes. Turn it out carefully on to a warmed dish, garnish the base with cooked mushrooms, and the top with an attelette skewer run through a truffle, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce, reduced with truffle trimmings and wine. THUMB-BITS.—This name is given to what may be termed tasty little mouthfuls, such as pieces of bread or toast (see Fig. 784) upon which 1ms been spread a savoury paste of some kind. They are greatly appre- Fig. 784. Thumb-bit. dated when provided at hotel bars and restaurants, and form useful little side-dishes at a hot or cold luncheon, answering in some respects to the hors d’ceuvres of a fashionable dinner. They should not be longer than Fig. 785. Form of Sandwich Thumb-bit. 2in., nor wider than lin., corresponding, in a sense, to the size of a thumb, from which they take their name. Made in the style of diminutive sandwiches (see Fig. 785) is a convenient form to serve them. They should then be set on the table or sideboard enclosed in serviettes folded in the shape of a cornucopia (see Fig. 786), gar- nished with parsley, and labelled with the name. A pair of asparagus-tongs will be found convenient for serving them. The following receipts can be recommended, and may suggest others: Fish Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold fish can be made up into a paste and delicately seasoned. It should be spread on slices of bread or toast previously buttered with anchovy butter. Shrimps, lobster, crab, bloater, and haddock can all be made up in the same manner. Game Thumb-bits.—^Auy kind of cold game made into a paste and worked up on a plate that has been well rubbed with a clove of garlic can be spread on buttered bread, and served as above described. Meat Thumb-bits.—Any kind of cold meat can be made into a paste, seasoned tastily, spread on slices of buttered bread, and covered with another.