532 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Succotash—continued. are tender, drain them nearly dry, put them together in a saucepan over the fire, season with salt and pepper, add I piled teaspoonful of butter to each quart of mixture, heat it, and serve hot. (4) Pick over 1 pint each of dried sweet corn and small white dried beans, and soak them overnight in separate howls of water, putting the water upon the vegetables while it is quite warm. The next morning wash lib. of salted pork in cold water, place it over the fire in a sauce pan in 2qts. of cold water with the beans, and boil slowly for an hour; then add the corn and continue the boiling until both vegetables are tender. When done, take out the pork and put it on a dish, drain off nearly all the water from the vegetables, add 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar, milk enough to cover them, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; heat it, and serve with the pork. SUEDOISE.—The literal meaning of this term is Swedish, being applied to a mode of preparing dishes of fruit according to the highest arts of confectionery. Receipts are given under special headings, such as Apples, Apricots, Salads, &c. SUET (Fr. Graise; Gcr. Nierenfett'i.—As far as cooks are concerned this is the fat from round the kidneys of any animal, especially from the bullock, calf, sheep, and lamb. In a literal sense the term has a wider signification, being applied to almost any kind of fat from which tallow is made. For most purposes beef-suet is considered pre- ferable. Large quantities of beef-suet are used in this and other countries for the production of margarine or artificial butter, but the Continental cook prefers veal- suet as being harder and less strongly and characteristi- cally flavoured. Mutton-suet, mixed with a certain pro- portion of white wax is much used by artistic cooks for moulding. Suet should be quite fresh when used; but it may be preserved for twelve months or more by removing all the membrane and veins, and melting down gradually at a slow heat, then pouring it into a large basin of cold water, when it should set hard and firm, requiring to be scraped for use. It may either be run into jars or simply left in the lump wrapped up in waxed paper. When required for use, Suet is usually chopped small after shredding it carefully, using plenty of flour in the operation. Baked Suet Pudding.—(1) Finely chop fib. of Suet and mix with it 4oz. of well-washed and dried currants, 4oz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, loz. of flour, 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and 1 pint of boiling milk. Beat four eggs well, stir them in with the above ingredients, and leave them until quite cold. Butter a dish, pour the mix- ture into it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding while hot. (2) Finely chop 2oz. of Suet and put it in a basin with an equal weight of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity of finely- slued candied peel, and spice to taste. Mix these ingre- dients with 1 pint of milk, pour them into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. Boiled Suet Pudding.—(1) Take Jib. of Suet, skin it, and chop it as fine as possible. Whisk three eggs and beat in with them by degrees 1 gill of milk. Mix together very thoroughly as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a slab ling and 2oz. of moist sugar, and stir this into the eggs and milk till the sugar is quite dissolved. Add then Jib. of flour and stir it in quite smooth ; next mix in the chopped Suet and 3oz. of sifted breadcrumbs. Let it stand for half-an-hour or longer. Butter an earthenware pudding- mould, put the pudding into it, tie a floured cloth tightly over it, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for three hours. (2) Skin and chop as fine as possible Jib. of Suet; put it on a paste-board, and with a rolling-pin roll into it six table-spoonfuls of flour with a little grated ginger. Beat up four eggs and mix with them 1 pint of milk; then Suet—continued. stir the eggs and milk into the Suet and flour. Dip a cloth into boiling water, flour it well, put the pudding into it, tie it loosely but firmly, allowing it room to swell, anil plunge it into boiling water and boil for an-hour-and-a quarter; do not let the water cease boiling even for an instant till the pudding is taken out (see Fig. 691). Serve with meat or fruit sauce. Fried Suet Pudding.—Put fib. of flour into a basin, mix into it 1 salt-spoonful of salt, 1J teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, and 6oz. of beef-suet skinned and chopped very fine. Mix to a paste quickly with cold water. Dip a cloth in boiling water, flour it well, and tie the pudding in it; plunge it immediately into boiling water and boil it constantly for two hours. Let the pudding get cold, cut it into slices, and brown them in a frying-pan. Serve hot for breakfast. Suet Crust.—(1) Remove all the skin from some veal or beef-kidney Suet, chop it, put it into a mortar with a small quantity of lard or butter, and pound it perfectly smooth. It may be used for crust in the same way that butter is used in making puff paste; and in this form will be found an excellent substitute for it, in making hot pies or tarts. It is not quite as good for those pies or tarts which are to be served cold. Eight ounces of Suet pounded with 2oz. of lard or butter, and worked with the fingers into lib. of flour, will make a good short- crust, but for a very rich one the proportion must be in- creased. In making good short-crust, lib. of flour, 8oz. of Suet, 2oz. of butter, and J teaspoonful of salt, will be sufficient, but if a richer crust be required 16oz. of Suet, 4oz. of butter, ljlb. of flour, and 1 teaspoonful of salt will be required. (2) Trim off all the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, then chop it very fine, dredging a small quantity of flour over it occasionally to prevent it stick- ing to the chopper. Roll the Suet out together with Jib. of flour till both are well mixed ; add a small pinch of salt to it, and make it into a smooth paste with as small a quantity of water as possible. It is then ready for use. This crust requires quick baking; when properly made it will be found excellent. Suet Dumplings.—Trim off the skin and discoloured pieces from Jib. of beef-suet, and chop the remainder very fine; mix with it fib. each of flour and stale bread- crumbs, add 1 pinch of salt, and mix the whole to a Fig. 692. Suet Dumplings. smooth paste with about J teacupful of milk. Divide the mixture into portions a little larger than an egg, roll them into balls with floured hands, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water. When the dumplings are cooked, they should be served hot, with either butter and sugar or jam (see Fig. 692). They may be served with boiled beef, in that case they should he cooked in the same saucepan as the meat.