TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 559 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Decorations—continued. Of course these two strips must be fitted with pegs and sockets, precisely the same as the leaves of the Table, and as they will be covered with the lake and cloth the colour of the wood does not signify, although that might be Fig. 736. Arrangement for Passing Fountain-pipe through Table. got over by using the same kind of wood as the Table top, or staining it. Before fixing the tin tray for the lake in its place, the bottom should be painted dark blue, or blue green, and the sides inside should be painted brown. Aspinal’s enamel will answer admirably, but it must be painted some days before it is wanted for use, so that the enamel may harden thoroughly and not taint the water. Indeed, it would be advisable to let water stand in it some time before fitting up the lake, taking care to empty the first water out, and refill. When all the materials are ready and the Table pre- pared, the tin tray is first placed in position, and the cloth Fig. 737. Arranging Tablecloths for Fountain. arranged under it. Two long and two short strips answer very well, and can be joined at the corners, as shown in the drawing (see Fig. 737). A few stitches are all that will he necessary to keep them together. If one large cloth is used, the centre must be sacrificed to the fountain. Under the lake tin a piece of white or marbled American cloth, cut 3in. or 4in. larger than the tin, so as to project that distance all round, might be laid so as to protect the cloth from the banks which have now to be built. Table Decorations—continued. At each point of the lake set a white pedestal—these pedestals need only be inverted boxes, or square blocks of wood ornamented according to taste with gum paste —then build up between them with bits of virgin cork a rustic bank completely covering the tin edge of the lake. Fix the pieces together with glue, and insert here and there tufts of different dried mosses, grasses, and artifi- cial flowers (see Coloured Plate). Having built the bank to your satisfaction, take the pagodas, boats, swans, ducks, lilies, or whatever you propose to float on the lake, and to the bottom of each fix, with sealing or cobbler’s wax, a piece of black thread, to the other end of which should be attached a little weight of some kind, coloured same as bottom of lake. In this way the floating objects are lightly anchored, having, at the same time, a very realistic freedom of motion. Fasten the threads to the centres of boats’ keels, so as not to give the idea of being anchored at either end. Place everything in position, and then begin to fill up with water, taking the greatest care not to wet the cloth. When you have about 2|in. of water in the lake, put in a number of small fish—gold and silver, and stickle- backs, minnows, small tench, or any other kind that are available, but do not make up the aquarium effect with toads, lizards, water-snails, tortoises, or any other such horrors. Fig. 738. floral Table Decoration—Scallop Pattern. When the electric light is available, small coil burners may be set here and there on the cork bank, in bunches at the corners of the Tables, and in the fountain; these latter might have the glass coloured variously so as to brighten the falling water, and the base be green. The effect would then be positively fairy-like and charming. If electricity be not to hand, coloured fairy lamps may be used, with which an effect very nearly as good can be attained. From the foregoing, we come down to Table Decorations of a simpler character. The centre may represent an Indian scene—groups of tall palms, rocks, sand, and figures. The lake tin may be partly filled with fine sand, and an Arab camp, or village, tastefully arranged. In short, the way should now be open to all to produce some extraordinary effects in the way of Table Decoration. The cook who considers the most attractive thing on the board should be the viands themselves, would much prefer that the subsidiary decorations should be of a very simple character—confined chiefly to a display of pretty china, silver, glass, and flowers, and with these some exquisite effects can be produced suitable for all sorts of occasions. It will be observed, upon a further reference to the Coloured Plate with the lake and fountain, that the side decorations do not, or should not, obstruct the view of the persons sitting opposite. With elaborate centre pieces, I obstruction is almost imperative; but with floral decoration