631 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc,, referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. skewers. The French aiguillette (see Fig. 844) and attereau (see Fig. 845) are refined instances of the same treatment, and it is further extended to the service of Fig. 850. Galantine. small birds, such as reed-birds, which are threaded on long skewers or spits (see Fig. 846). When cooked in this way they are termed a la brochette by the French chef. Fig. 851. Collared Breast of Mutton. Some persons contend that the mere act of transfixing should not be included under the heading of Trussing; but the meaning of Trussing is certainly that of holding Trussing—continued. truss used to keep open the flanks of a slaughtered beast, are familiar examples. Dried haddocks, smoked salmon, and kippered herrings are kept open by a similar system of Trussing; then we have the famous spatchcock (see Fig. 848), which is a bird cut down the back and spread open, a skewer being threaded Fig. 854. Paupiette of Beef. through the two outside edges, passing through the flesh of the breast, and flattening the whole bird as if cut in halves. Fish is sometimes served in the same way, the chief care being to have the body sufficiently divided so that when opened out the whole shall be of a uniform thickness, so as to ensure cooking evenly. The skewer Fig. 855. Saddle of Mutton Prepared for Baking Fig. 852. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton a la Milanaise. together as in a bundle, examples being a trhss of hay, and truss of reed-birds or larks; under these circumstances we consider the application legitimate. Fig. 853. Rolled Belly of Pork. The next stage of Trussing is that of transfixing in such a manner as to hold the object in a certain position. A kidney trussed for bi-oiling (see Fig. 847), or the must be held firmly in the right hand and forced through the nearest edge, then by forcing down the end held in the hand, and pressing on the flattened body with the palm of the left hand, the skewers can be forced through the breast-bone, and then made to pass through the flesh of the opposite edge, and so extend the body flatly open. Fig. 856. Ribs of Beef Prepared for Boiling. Crimped skate is trussed by transfixing into S-shaped scrolls, rounds, or curls (see Fig. 849). The next simplest form of Trussing is that of tying or binding, using either stout cord or tape, which latter is best for almost all. Some kinds of galantines (see Fig. 850) are prepared by rolling up the meat tightly in a cloth, tying the ends, then securing the body of the galantine by a series of tightly-drawn loops encircling it.