472 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. (2) Lay a large plump Sole perfectly flat in a fish-kettle, strew over it in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and onion, and season it with salt and pepper and a small quantity of mace, also a little chopped thyme. Beard about a dozen oysters and clean an equal Fig. 611. Sole A la Normande. quantity of mussels, lay them on the Sole, moisten to height with equal quantities of white wine and water, put the lid on the kettle, and stew the contents gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, strain the liquor off the Sole into a saucepan, and boil it up; then move it off the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Lay the Sole on a deep dish, arrange the oysters and mussels round it, and pour the sauce over it; put the disli into the oven for a few minutes, hut take it out before the con- tents begin to brown. Fry a dozen smelts in butter; cook some slices of truffle in white wine, and some mushrooms in lemon-juice; also cut out of a French roll as many small various-shaped pieces as possible, and fry them a delicate brown in butter. Garnish the dish containing the Sole with the smelts, truffles, mushrooms, and croutons of roll, arranging them as tastefully as possible, and serve. (3) Clean the Soles, and peel and slice one or two onions. Butter a baking-dish, lay the slices of onion in the bottom and the Soles on the top, strew in moderate quantities of minced parsley, sweet herbs, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and moisten to height with white wine. Put the tin in a moderate oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour, during which time baste the Soles frequently with their cooking-liquor, and add more butter if necessary. When cooked, lay the Soles on a hot dish with the onions, pour their sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Soles a la Parisienne.- Skin the Soles, clean them, and trim off their heads and rails. Put a lump of butter into a saute -pan; when it has melted, put in the Soles, sprinkle over them some chopped chives and parsley, and season them with salt and pepper. Saute the fish over a clear fire. Cover a hot dish with Italian sauce, and when cooked, put the Soles on it, and serve them. Soles a la Perigord.—Skin and clean two Soles, and marinade them for an hour. When ready, dry them on a cloth, cover them to about lin. in thickness with whiting or other fish forcemeat mixed up with a finely- chopped black truffle, brush over the surface with white of egg, and sprinkle over another finely-chopped black truffle; place the fish on a thicldy-buttered drainer in a large fish-kettle, add 8oz. of butter, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, pour in 1 pint of champagne, and cook gently but without ceasing for half-an-hour, basting them frequently. Take them out and keep them hot. Skim the liquor and reduce it to half glaze ; pour one-third of it into a sauceboat and the remainder into a saucepan con- taining a pint of regency sauce, work into this Jib. of butter and a few chopped truffles, and cook until done. Pour this over the Soles, and serve with any desired garnish. Sole a la Portugaise.—Skin and clean a thick Sole, and make a deep incision in the back. Mix with loz. of butter one finely-chopped shallot, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Stuff the fish with this, and put it in a buttered gratin-dish. Put alternately some slices of onions and tomatoes over the Sole, using in all one Spanish onion and four tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, put a few small pieces of butter about, then cover all with brown breadcrumbs Soles—continued. that have been mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. Pom- in a little tomato sauce, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes. When cooked, serve the Sole while hot. Soles au Supreme.—Skin, clean, and prepare two Soles as for Soles a la Colbert, marinading them. Take' them out and drain them, rub well with oil, put them on an oiled gridiron over a clear fire, and cook for half- an-hour, turning them so as to equally colour them. When done, put them on a dish, pour over supreme sauce, and serve with more in a sauceboat. Soles a la Trouville.—Trim the dark skin off the Soles, and cut each one into three pieces. Coat the inside of a gratin-dish with butter, then sprinkle thickly over it some grated breadcrumb and some finely-chopped onions; brown the breadcrumbs in the oven, then pour in 1 wineglassful of boiling cider. Put the pieces of Soles in the gratin-dish, and bake them for ten minutes. Work a lump of butter with some flour and chopped parsley, then spread it over the Soles, and finish baking till quite cooked. The Soles should be served in the dish in which they were baked. Sole Croquettes.—Cut into small pieces the remains of some cooked fillets of Sole. Boil some veloute sauce maigre with some fish broth or the cooking-liquor of the Soles till reduced, thicken it with egg, put the pieces of Sole in it, and leave till cold. Cut the above mixture into small equal-sized portions, which shape into corks or balls, dip them in eggs that have been beaten up with a small quantity of olive oil, salt, and pepper, then roll them well in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put the cro- quettes in a frying-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them till brown. Drain the croquettes when they are nicely coloured, dust some salt over, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Sole Pie.—(1) Use the remains of some Soles that have been previously cooked, pick the flesh off the bones, cut it into small pieces, put it in a mortar with a few mushrooms and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs, and pound them, moistening with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Boil and mash 21b. or 31b. of potatoes, butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, and fill it with alternate layers of fish and potatoes; pour some tomato or bechamel sauce over the whole, cover with puff paste, trim and press the edges together, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pie while hot, standing the pie-dish on a flat plate. (2) Bone a boiled eel, put the bones in the water in which it was cooked, dust in a little salt, and boil the liquor quickly till reduced to \ pint- With the flesh of the eel prepare a forcemeat by chopping and mixing it with some parsley, lemon-peel, and one anchovy, all chopped; mix them well with some grated breadcrumb and loz. of butter, seasoning with salt and pepper. Line a buttered pie-dish with a good short-paste, sjwead the forcemeat at the bottom of it, and fill it up with pieces of Sole flesh. Strain the reduced sauce, pour it in the pie, put a paste cover on, damping and pressing the edges together. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. (3) With Oysters.—Pick the meat carefully from the bones of a thick pair of Soles, divide it into moderately small pieces, and dust some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, put a strip of puff paste round it, and fill the dish with alter- nate layers of Sole and bearded oysters. Strain the oyster liquor, pour it into the dish with a little broth, and put in a few pieces of butter. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moisten and press the edges together, and brush it over with beaten egg, making a hole in the top. Bake the pie for about half-an-hour. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the fire till cooked. When done, take the pie out of the oven, pour the hot cream in through a funnel placed in the hole at the top, and serve while hot.