THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 655 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of celery-root, four cloves, and seven or eight peppercorns. Boil the liquor for ten minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and stew the Turkey gently till cooked. Prepare a garnish of nouilles, finishing it with butter and Parmesan cheese, then put it on a hot dish. Remove the string from the Turkey, and put it on the dish with the nouilles. Skim and strain the cooking- liquor, thicken it with tomato sauce, and boil it for a few minutes. Pour a small quantity of the sauce over the bird, and serve it with the remainder in a sauceboat. Stewed Turkey Pinions with Chestnut Puree.—Take out the large wing-bone from some Turkey pinions, and fold the skin over at the end where it has been boned. Put the pinions in a saucepan with hot water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then drain them, and put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix. When cooked, press the pinions between two plates till cold. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced; then put in the pinions and glaze them. Arrange the pinions in a circle on a hot dish, glaze them again by brushing them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, fill the centre of the dish with chestnut puree, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted glaze. Stewed Turkey’s Pinions with Sauce Tortue.—Singe the pinions, bone them to the second joint, and press the flesh into the hollow left by the bones. Put the pinions in a saucepan with hot water, stand it over the fire till boiling, then plunge them into cold water, dry them, and pluck them. Blanch and cut Jib. of streaky bacon into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with three small sliced onions, 2oz. of lard, and the pinions. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a brisk fire till nicely coloured: then drain off the fat, dredge in about 1 table-spoonful of flour, add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, a small I quantity of trimmings of mushrooms, and sufficient white I wine and broth in equal quantities to cover them. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering till the pinions are done. Prepare some small quenelles of veal or chicken force- meat, and poach them; cook about twenty button-mush- rooms, and cut a cooked calf's brain into small equal-sized pieces. When cooked, drain the pinions, skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till somewhat reduced, adding gradu- ally 1 wineglassful of Madeira, and seasoning with 1 pinch of cayenne. Put the pinions, calf’s brains, mushrooms, and quenelles into the sauce, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes; then turn the stew on to a hot dish, sprinkle some chopped gherkins over it, and serve. Stewed Turkey with Wine and Tomato Sauce.— Thoroughly clean and scald the giblets of two Turkeys, drain them, and put the livers on one side; place the remainder of the giblets in a stewpan with some chopped bacon and a thinly sliced onion, dust in a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry the giblets over a moderate fire till they are set; then add a small bunch of sweet herbs, and pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient broth to cover them. Boil the giblets till three parts cooked, then drain, trim, and return them to the stewpan. Wash Jib. of best rice, put it in with the giblets, with their strained cooking-liquor, Jib. of raw ham cut into small pieces, and a little under J pint of tomato sauce. When the liquid is boiling, draw the stewpan to the edge of the fire, put the lid on, with some live embers on the top, and let it simmer for half an hour. Pour the stew, when cooked, on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Turkey a la Bourgeoise.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey as for roasting, but do not stuff it, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it well with butter till nicely browned. Put a few slices of veal at the bottom of a deep stewpan, put in the Turkey, cover it with slices of bacon, moisten to height with stock or broth, Turkeys—continued. put in a bunch of sweet herbs, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. When cooked, take the Turkey out, and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the bird, and serve. Turkey a la Daube.—A large and rather old Turkey should be used for this dish. Singe and draw the bird, divide it into halves, cutting the sides transversely through the middle. Cut the legs off, and lard them on the thickest part with fillets of ham. Cut off the rest of the bones adhering to the breast, which divide in two lengthwise. Lard the two fillets with raw ham, and season them with salt and spices. Put fib. of chopped fat bacon in an earthenware stockpot, and melt it; put in the body- bones, breast, legs, neck, claws (which should have been scalded and skinned), and the crop (which should have been opened and cut). Toss the above ingredients over a moderate fire for half-an hour, then add a ham-bone, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, one carrot, one onion, and a boned blanched calf’s foot, seasoning with salt and pepper. In putting the articles in the stockpot, they should be arranged so that the vegetables and body- bones are at the bottom. Cover all with slices of bacon, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and white wine to three- fourths the height. When boiling, move the stockpot to the side of the fire, put a sheet of paper over the top, then a deep plate with a little water in it and a weight on the top, in order to concentrate the vapour. Peel and fry about thirty small onions till lightly browned, and when the Turkey is three-parts cooked, put them in. When cooked, put the legs of the Turkey on a hot dish, place the breast on the top, and arrange the giblets and onions all round. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, return it to the saucepan, put in a lump of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till thick. Pour the gravy over the Turkey, and serve. Turkey a la Toulouse.—Peel from 21b. to 31b. of raw truffles.- chop the trimmings with Jib. of fresh bacon, put them in a mortar and pound them, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Singe and draw the Turkey, stuff it with the pounded mixture, truss it, fasten a sheet of buttered paper round it, fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting often with butter. Ten minutes before taking the bird up, remove the paper and let it brown, dusting it over with salt. Put some slices of toast on a hot dish, place the Turkey on them, garnish with roasted quails at each side, and the truffles, seasoned and boiled in white wine, at each end (see Fig. 901), and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Turkey Ballottines.—Clean and bone a Turkey, and stuff’ it with a salpicon of tongue and truffles mixed with Turkey forcemeat. When stuffed, shape the Turkey into a long roll about 2Jin. in diameter, put it in a cloth, secure it at eacli end, and tie it very tightly across in two places with string. Put the Turkey into a stewpan, cover it with mirepoix, and when cooked take it out and let it cool for half-an-hour. Take off the cloth, and cut the Turkey through where the marks of the string are. Put a mound of boiled rice in the middle of a dish, cover it with ravigote butter, stand two of the ballottines on the mound, and put the third one on the top; put chopped