THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (303 tur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. must be taken not to have more than the quantity of cooked Tomatoes, and that the preparation is not too salty, otherwise the whole will be spoilt as regards the flavour. (2) Boil Jib. of macaroni in milk and water till tender, having more than half milk. Put 1 pint of rich cream into a saucepan over the lire, and when it boils add to it lOoz. of cooking-cheese cut in very thin pieces and a small quantity of salt, and stir until the cheese is melted; mix in then 2oz. of fresh butter and a seasoning of cayenne. Arrange the macaroni on a hot dish round four or five baked Tomatoes, pour the cheese mixture carefully over the Tomatoes and macaroni (see Fig. 804), and serve very hot. Tomato Marmalade.—(1) Select some large, ripe Tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice. Put them ! in a preserving-pan with three or four peach-leaves, a j clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a small sliced onion, and stew them until reduced to a pulp. Pass the Tomatoes through a fine wire sieve, return them to the preserving-pan with a lump of salt, and stir over the fire until reduced to a thick marmalade. Turn the marmalade into small jars, pepper the tops, and pour clarified butter I over. Cover the jars with paper and tie them down. This j marmalade can be eaten with fish or used for flavouring gravies, stews, and fricassees. (2) Scald and peel 121b. of ripe Tomatoes, cut them in j halves if large ones are used, and put them into a sauce- pan with 61b. of sugar and 1 table-spoonful each of ground j cinnamon, allspice, and cloves. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil the contents slowly until the liquor attains ! the consistency of molasses; add 1 qt.. of strong vinegar, 1 boil for ten minutes longer, remove the saucepan from the j fire, let the liquor cool, put it away in jars, and cover till required for use. Tomatoes with Mayonnaise.—Raw Tomatoes, peeled and ] sliced, are delicious with mayonnaise, which is made by J slowly mixing three parts of oil and one of vinegar with j the yolk of an egg, and adding a seasoning of salt and j pepper. The addition of mustard to mayonnaise is a matter of taste. The egg and seasoning are put in the bottom of a bowl, with a very little vinegar, and mixed to a smooth cream; the oil and vinegar are then added alternately, a few drops at a time, until the desired quantity of mayonnaise is made. It must be kept in a cool place until wanted. Tomato-and-Meat Pudding.—Sprinkle over the bottom of a dish with sifted breadcrumbs, cover them with a layer of thin slices of underdone meat, and over this a layer of peeled Tomatoes cut in slices; sprinkle with a little sugar, salt, and pepper, put a few small lumps of butter here I and there, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Cover lastly with breadcrumbs, set the dish in a moderate oven, take it out when well browned, and serve at once. j Tomato Omelet.—(1) Scald and skin a large Tomato, chop it up, and mix in a little minced shallot. Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separately; then mix the beaten yolks with the Tomato and shallot, adding salt and pepper to taste. Put IJoz. of butter in an omelet-pan, and when it is quite hot add the whites of the eggs to the other mixture, turn it into the pan, and cook for two or three minutes, stirring frequently. When done, put the omelet on a dish, and serve. (2) Cut two onions into small pieces, put them into a fry- ing-pan with a little oil or butter, and fry them to a yellow colour; add three or four ripe Tomatoes, also cut Tomatoes—continued. up small, and cook until the water has evaporated from the Tomatoes; then mix in a little minced parsley. Beat four eggs in a basin, add some more parsley, and beat for a little while longer. Put ljoz. of butter into an omelet- pan, make it quite hot, pour in the omelet, cook it for a minute or two, put the Tomato mixture in the centre, double it up, put it on a dish, and serve. (3) Scald and pare six ripe Tomatoes, and remove the seeds; put the former into a saucepan, anti cook them until quite soft; then beat them to a pulp, rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in four well-beaten eggs, 2oz. of grated breadcrumb, 4 table-spoonfuls of milk, and salt anti pepper to taste. Stir well, turn the prt par vtion into a well-buttered dish, place it in the oven, ana bake. When done, take it out, and serve with butter sauce. (4) Put four eggs into a basin, and beat them well; season with minced parsley, salt, and pepper, and beat well for a little while longer. Turn the mixture into a frying- pan with ljoz. of warmed butter, and fry over a clear fire. When done, pour over a few table-spoonfuls of thick Tomato sauce, turn the omelet over, and serve on a hot dish. (5) Peel a medium-sized onion and chop it up fine, place it in a sautii-pan on the hot stove with loz. of butter in it, and let it get to a golden colour, adding J pint of stewed Tomatoes, or two good-sized, peeled, raw Tomatoes, cut into small pieces, a crushed clove of garlic, and season, if the Tomatoes are raw, with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, adding 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Let the whole cook together for ten minutes, then dross it on a hot dish. (6) Break twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, and beat them up thoroughly for four minutes. Place 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan on the hot stove, let it heat well without browning, then pour into it J pint of freshly-cooked stewed Tomatoes, strained from their juice. Cook these for two minutes, turn the beaten eggs over them, and with a fork mix the whole gently for three minutes; let them rest for one minute longer. Fold over the two opposite sides, turn the omelet carefully on to a hot dish, and serve. Tomato-and-Onion Pie.—Peel two Spanish onions the night before they are wanted, put them in a basin with boiling water to cover, and let them soak until morning. Dry the onions, and cut them into slices. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the slices of onion and fry them till brown on both sides. Cut about 211). of Tomatoes in slices, put a layer of them in a deep dish, then a layer of the fried onions, strew breadcrumbs over, and season with small quantities of salt and pepper. Fill the dish with the Tomatoes and onions, proceeding as before described, and covering the last layer with breadcrumbs. Place a few small pieces of butter on the top, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When cooked, stand the dish on a flat dish, and serve while very hot. Tomato Paste.—(1) Procure some ripe Tomatoes, cut them into quarters, and put them in a stewpan with two or three cloves of garlic, a handful of basil, and a lump of salt; pour in just sufficient water to keep them from burning, and stew gently. When cooked, turn the Tomatoes on to a fine hair sieve, leave them until all the water has run from them, then pass their pulp through the sieve into a lined saucepan. Season the pulp to taste with pepper, and boil it until reduced to a thick paste. It must be con- stantly stirred with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the paste into small jars, leave it until cool, then tie them over with stout paper, and put them away for use. This paste makes a very good sauce, and in Italy, where it is much used, it is called Conserva. (2) Put the Tomatoes in a lined pan with a small quantity of garlic, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and boil them until they will mash. Pass the Tomatoes through a fine hair sieve, then return the pulp to the pan, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a stiff consistency. Turn the paste into plates, spread it out, keep it in the sun for several days, and stir it frequently. When stiff, divide the paste into small cakes, and wrap them ujj in fig-