THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 623 box details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Trout—continued. Trout—continued forcemeat, and put the fish in the oven for a few minutes to poach the forcemeat. Have ready a ragout of crayfish- tails, mushrooms, and salmon forcemeat quenelles. Place a socle of rice on a dish, having it about lin. shorter than the fish, place the ragout round, pour over a little rich sauce, and surround it again with pieces of cooked eel, and more crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and quenelles, arranging them so as to cover the rice socle. Strain the fish liquor, skim it well, reduce it to half glaze, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish sauce, reduce again, strain into a tureen, and serve with the Trout. The fish may be further decorated with small pieces of fried smelts and mushrooms, stuck on atte- lettes, and placed down its back (see Fig. 835). Prawns and small potatoes in piles may be used also for garnish, and Geneva sauce served with it. Or the Trout may be put on a napkin on a dish, garnished with fried mackerel or carp roes, and served with Geneva or Dutch sauce mixed up with a little crayfish butter. Trout a la Chasseur.—This is an easy way for anglers to cook the fish as they are caught. Stuff the mouth with salt, wrap the fish round with well wetted paper, push it into hot ashes, and cook for from ten to fifteen minutes, or until the fish is done. Take it out, remove the paper, and the fish is ready to be eaten. Trout a l’Espagnole. —Scale and clean three or four Trout, draw them by the gills, wipe them inwardly, and stuff them with a mixture of butter, chopped chives, shallots, and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the fish in a pan, and soak them for an hour in olive oil mixed up with chopped chives, thyme, parsley, laurel leaves, and salt and pepper to taste. Take out the Trout, cover them with as much of the seasoning as will adhere, cover the whole with paper dipped in oil, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them. Take them off when done, remove the paper, put the Trout on a dish, pour over anchovy sauce, and serve. Trout 4 la Genevese.—(1) Clean and draw about 121b. weight of Trout, scale them, dry them on a cloth, put them in a saucepan, pour over 2 wineglassfuls each of sherry wine and champagne, and add a small piece of well-baked crust from a French roll, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little thyme and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the saucepan on the fire, and cook for about an-liour-and-a-quarter; then take out the piece of crust and brown it before the fire. Put the fish on a dish to keep warm. Add a thickening of butter rolled in flour to the liquor, boil it up, pour it over the Trout, and serve with a garnish of the piece of crust cut up, and slices of lemon. (2) Clean and well wash five or six Trout, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich white stock, add a little parsley, thyme, a few shallots in slices, half-a-dozen each of whole peppers and cloves, and salt to to taste. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stew until the fish are done. Put the fish ou a hot dish, thicken the sauce, pour it over, and serve. (3) Put four well-cleaned middling-sized Trout at the bottom of a buttered flat saucepan, having them close together, pour over 1 wineglassful of white wine, sprinkle over a little salt, and boil them quickly with hot cinders or ashes on the lid. Put the Trout when done on a dish, brush them over with glaze, and keep them hot in a slack oven. Add a little glaze to the liquor in which they were cooked, boil up once, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fi;’e; then add a little thickening of butter; remove the saucepan from the fire, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour the liquor round the Trout, and serve. Slices of lemon should be served for garnish. (4) Clean about 151b. of Trout, chop off their heads, wipe them dry on a cloth, score them on both sides where they are to be cut when cooked, and with a sharp knife disconnect the backbones. Put the fish into a baking- dish, dredge them over with salt and pepper, add 4oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful each of sherry and champagne, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and a little broth. Put the dish in the oven, and baste frequently until the fish are done and well glazed. Take them out, and put them carefully in another dish. Add another breakfast cupful each of the sherry and champagne to the cooking liquor, with sufficient browned flour to thicken, and boil for a few minutes; then strain the liquor over the fish, and serve with slices of lemon for garnish. (5) Clean the Trout well, put them into a stewpan, pour over them equal quantities of Moselle or Rhenish wine, or sherry and champagne, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, a small bunch of parsley and thyme, a crust of French bread, and a little pepper. Cover the pan and set it over a quick fire. When the Trout are done, take them out of the stewpan; strain the sauce they were done in, thicken it with the crust well bruised and beaten into it, and a little butter and flour ; boil it, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with fried bread and slices of lemon, and serve hot. Trout au Gratin.—Clean and wipe four Trout of middling size, cut them up on the belly side from head to tail, and chop off' the spine bone at each end to remove it. Dust them over inwardly with salt and pepper, and stuff' them with quenelle forcemeat mixed with 1 table-spoonful or so of fine herbs. Tie them round into their original shape, put them close together on a well buttered gratin-dish, sprinkle over a little chopped shallot and parsley, and a few table- spoonfuls of mushrooms, press the fish close together, sprinkle them over with salt and more fine herbs, baste them well with butter, and pour round a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce and a little white wine. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Take it out when the fish are done, and serve. Trout a l’Hussarde.—Scale and clean a Trout, draw it by the gills, and stuff it with butter mixed up with finely- chopped sweet herbs. In stuffing great care must be taken that the skin is not broken. Rub the fish well with warmed butter or oil, dust it over with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil it; or it may be put in a dish in the oven and baked. Put it on a dish when done, and serve with poivrade sauce in a sauceboat. Trout au Mayonnaise.—Cut off the heads and thin tail parts from six rather small Trout, clean them inwardly through the gills, and wipe them also inwardly, taking care not to remove the slime from the skin. Have ready a saucepan with sufficient court-bouillon mixed with a little claret to cover the fish, plunge them in when the liquor is boiling, cover over the pan, remove it to the side of the fire, and let the fish cool in the liquor. Take them out, drain them, wipe well, put them on the ice for thirty minutes or so, and glaze with half-set aspic jelly. Fill an ornamental border-mould with aspic jelly, turn it out on to a dish when set, put a little chopped jelly in the centre, pile the fish on the top, and serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauceboat. Trout a POrly.—Cut off the fillets from seven or eight small Trout, put them into a basin with a little oil and lemon-juice, and add a few sprigs of parsley and a small quantity of salt. Let the fillets macerate in this for half- an-hour, then take them out, drain them, dust over slightly with flour, dip them singly into batter, plunge into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take Fig. 836. Trout A i.’Orly. them out when done and of a rich colour, drain them, dust over with salt, put them in a pile on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish (see Fig. 836). Trout en Papillotes.—Take six Trout of Jib. each, and stuff them with fish forcemeat. Oil as many pieces of