634 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PPACT1CAL COOKERY. Fig. 872. Section of Fish on Strainer. 869) described under Fish (Yol. I., p. 587), and to which reference should be made. The plan also of Trussing a fish to the strainer (see Fig. 872) is described under the same heading. Animals.—Chief amongst these will be the rabbit and the hare, the latter rarely being required whole for any- thing else than roasting, both being trussed alike for this mode of cooking. After stuffing and sewing up, draw the fore-legs straight along the sides, and pass a skewer through them, transfixing the body. Next, draw the Fig. 873. Barbecued Rabbit. hind-legs straight forward; sometimes a slight notch with a knife is required behind the joints to allow this. Fix these hind-legs also with a skewer, transfixing the body. A string is then crossed under the belly so as to pass round the four points of the skewers, and the ends are brought up over the back and tied (see Fig. 875). The tail is turned up and pinned on to the loin. When Truss- ing a rabbit for boiling whole, the head is drawn to the side (see Fig. 874) and secured there by means of a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fig. 876. Pheasant Trussed for Roasting. of the claws, leaving only jin., and serve the spur in the same manner; then chop off the pointed tips of the pinions, and turn the wings in so as to make triangles on the back of the bird, the tips being pushed over the first joints, as shown in the Plate, “ Trussing Poultry.” Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Trussing—continued. head through the mouth into the body, the skewer point passing out 2in. or din. down, and fixing itself in the Fig. 871. Fish Trussed by Tying. body of the inner coil. The effect is striking if nicely executed. This division may be dismissed with a reference to the mode of stuffing and serving up a fish (see Fig. Trussing—continued. skewer and string. When barbecued or spatchcocked, as a rabbit sometimes is, the head is removed, and the body split open and trussed flat, as already described (see Fig. 873). The only other animal trussing that requires Fig. 874 Rabbit Trussed For Boiling. special mention is the noble boar’s head. All the cook has to do in this instance is to set the mouth so that the tusks may be plainly visible after cooking, and the ears Fig. 875. Hare Trussed. kept in their proper position by thin slips of wood or wire skewers. Birds.—Turkeys and fowls are trussed alike, so that what is said of one will answer for the other. As there is a good deal to say on this subject, it will be well to observe that when drawn according to the directions given under their own headings, the free use of the flour- mop or dredger is an absolute necessity, otherwise the bird will have a most revolting appearance; besmeared with blood and other discolouring matters from the inside, it would be anything but appetising or attractive. The first thing to do with a fowl is to clean or “ draw ” it. When you have done this, singe it, chop off the toes