579 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. P Tea-Cakes—continued. receipts, and should be served up on a very hot plate with a cover made to fit (see Fig. 768). iSee also Sally Ltjnns. Fig. 768. Tea-Cakes. (1) Sift lib. of flour on to a paste-board, make a well in the centre of it, in which put 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and Alb. of slightly-warmed butter; mix all well together, then stir in four well- beaten eggs and sufficient cold water to form a stiff paste. Knead the paste well with the hands, then roll it out to about Jin. in thickness. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter about 4in. in diameter, butter a baking- sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in water, and sift a small quantity of caster sugar over the top of them. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and serve them when cold. (2) Rub into 24 breakfast-cupfuls of pastry-flour 1 table-spoonful of butter warmed to melting; then add J Fig. 769. Rings for Tea-Cakes teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 teasjoonful of cream of tartar, A teacupful of sugar, and A teaspoonful of salt. Mix in one egg and A pint of milk, and bake in round tins (see Fig. 769). (3) Rub in 2qts. of flour 1 small teacupful of lard and 1 small teacupful of butter; when quite smooth, add 2 small teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, one grated nutmeg, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream. Mix well together, roll out to about Jm- in thickness, cut into oblongs, and bake in a moderate oven. (4) Take 2 table-spoonfuls of dissolved German yeast and mix it into 21b. of flour ; pour in while mixing three whipped eggs. Then add 2oz. of butter melted in 1 pint of hot milk. Beat all together to a batter, and put it before the fire to rise. Butter several saucers or patty- pans, fill them with the paste, and bake in a quick oven. NVhen the top side is done, turn them over, and let the under-side get brown also. (5) Melt 4oz. of butter in 1 pint of hot milk, and add loz. of German yeast, two well-beaten eggs, and a little salt. Then work 2lb. of flour well in. Put the dough in a warm place to rise for about three-quarters-of an-hour. Knead it well and put it into buttered shallow tins. Let the cakes rise well, put them in a quick oven, and bake until done. Tea-Cakes—continued. (6) Put lib. of sifted sugar into a warmed pan, break eight eggs into it, and continue to beat until they are thick, then stir in gradually lib. of dried flour. Fill a biscuit-bag with the mixture, and drop it into biscuit shapes about ] Ain. in diameter on a sheet of white paper. Let them be quite lin. apart. Sprinkle a little pounded sugar over them, put them on to baking-sheets, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely coloured. Damp the paper and remove it from the cakes. TEA-&ETTX»E BXbOTH.—A fancy name applied to a thin broth that is supposed to be greatly in favour amongst invalids. As may be seen from the following receipts the tea-kettle plays an important part in its manufacture. (1) Toast some thin slices of bread, cut them into pieces, and put them in a basin; dust over salt and pepper to taste, drop a piece of butter the size of a walnut on to the toast, pour on A teacupful of cream, and follow that with 1 pint of boiling water. (2) Cut some slices of crumb of bread into dice, put them in a basin, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped parsley and salt to taste. Pour over this 1 pint of boiling- water and 1 teacupful of milk. (3) Boil one dozen pea-pods and a leaf of mint in ! pint of water, and use this instead of the water as described in both Nos. 1 and 2. A teaspoonful of bovril or other concentrated beef tea may be added to either of the foregoing if desired. TEA-POTS.—A long list of designs and novel inven- tions for these vessels might be given, but experience tells us that the old-fashioned Britannia metal, electro-plated, or silver Tea-pot (see Fig. 770) has not yet been effec- tually superceded. Many people assert that for drawing Fig. 771. Furniss’ Patent Porcelain-lined Tea-pot, cut open to show interior. tea, there is no pot equal to those made of china or earthenware; and as this seems to be the opinion of the Chinese, to whom we are indebted for our earliest For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sattces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. o o