616 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tripe—continued. Tried Tripe.—(1) Put a piece of Tripe into a saucepan of cold water, and boil up once; pour the water off, scrape and clean the Tripe, cut it up into small squares, put it back in the saucepan, pour over more cold water to cover it, and cook gently for half-an-hour or so until it is quite tender. Take out the pieces, drain them well, dip them in batter, or egg and breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Put lib. of Tripe cut into small oblongs in cold water, and soak it for one night. On the following day, put the Tripe in a saucepan, cover it with fresh, cold water, and place it over the fire until boiling; then drain the water from the Tripe, cover it with more cold water, and boil it up again. Continue changing the water until the last lot boils up clear, and without any unpleasant odour; then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, put in a small lump of salt, and simmer gently until the Tripe is tender. Drain it, dry thoroughly on a clean towel, and season with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs mixed with 1 saltspoonful of salt and f, saltspoonful of pepper. Beat well the whites of two eggs. Boll the Tripe in the beaten eggs, and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, covering it well all over with them. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire until the blue smoke rises; then put in the Tripe; turn it when lightly browned on one side, and brown the other. When cooked, take the Tripe out of the fat, and place it on a sheet of kitchen paper Fig. 824. Fried Tripe. in front of the fire for a minute or two to drain. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Tripe on it, garnish it with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley (see Fig. 824), and serve. (3) Make a batter with three eggs beaten up with flour, milk, a little pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt, having it a little thicker than for pancakes. Cut the Tripe into pieces about Sin. or 4in. square, dip them into the batter, and fry in butter or dripping to a light brown. Serve the Tripe hot, garnish with fried parsley, and with melted butter sauce having lemon pickle in it. Roasted Tripe.—(1) Cut lib. or so of Tripe into squares, mask them with forcemeat, roll them up, tie them round with string, put them on a spit in front of a clear fire, dust them over with flour, and roast them, basting them frequently with butter. Let them remain for about ten minutes, put them on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve with melted butter in a sauceboat. (2) Make a stuffing of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and sifted breadcrumbs, mixed with beaten yolks of two eggs. Cut the Tripe into two pieces lengthwise, on the fat side of one of these pieces spread the stuffing, lay the other piece fat side downwards over it, roll it up tight, and tie it firmly with fine twine. Roast it for an hour or an-hour- and a half, basting it with flutter. Serve with melted butter sauce flavoured with ketchup and lemon pickle. Rolled Cheese.—Have ready a quantity of prepared Tripe, cut it up into strips, put it rough side uppermost, and on it place an equal quantity of strips of beef cut from the skirt. Season well with salt and pepper, roll them up, sew them with thread, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently until they are done and so tender that a straw will easily pierce them. Put them into a flat basin or tub, place a weight on the top, so as to flatten them, and leave till cold. Put them into a bowl of vinegar and water until wanted, then cut them up into slices, and they are ready to be served. Rolled Stuffed Tripe.—Chop very fine one small clove of garlic, peel and slice one medium-sized onion and one large Tripe—continued. ripe tomato, and fry them with lib. of sausage-meat until the meat begins to brown. In the meantime scald 21b. of Tripe, scrape it with the back of a knife, and cut it into strips 2m. wide and about 5in. long. When the sausage-meat is done, season it to taste, spread it over the pieces of Tripe, roll them up, and tie them compactly. Put a frying-pan over the fire with enough butter to cover the bottom, and when it begins to brown put in the rolls of Tripe, and quickly brown them. Also brown some little balls of sausage-meat. As the Tripe is browning dredge a little flour over, and when it is brown lay it on a dish. Pour a little hot water into tire pan, and stir it about to make a sauce; season this with salt and pepper, let it boil, pour it in a hot platter, and lay the Tripe in it, with the sausage-meat balls in the centre (see Fig. 825). Stewed Tripe.—(1) Well wash lib. of Tripe, boil it until tender, and then drain it. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the lire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually f pint of milk, and continue stirring until boiling. Put the Tripe in the sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn the Tripe and sauce on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Shred 141b. of Tripe, brown it slightly for three minutes in a pan, with loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper; turn it into a saucepan, with 4 pint of German sauce, cook for live minutes longer, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, sprinkle with 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve on a hot dish. Tripe a la Bordelaise.—(1) Take 141b. of Tripe cut into twelve lozenge-shaped pieces, and put them to marinade for two hours in 1 table-spoonful of oil, with 1 pinch of salt, l pinch of pepper, one bay-leaf, one sprig of thyme, six whole peppers, the juice of one lemon, and a crushed clove of garlic. Drain, roll them in flour, then in beaten egg, and finally in sifted breadcrumbs. Fry in loz. of clarified butter in a pan for five minutes on each side, and serve with I gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, adding to it 1 teaspoonful of meat glaze. (2) Peel and blanch three dozen small onions, put them into a saucepan with a little lard, fry them, sprinkle over a little salt and sugar, and add one dozen small mushrooms fried in lard, 1 Alb. of Tripe, well washed and cut into squares 14in. in diameter, and a clove of garlic, moisten with a little gravy, cover over the saucepan, and boil gently at the side of the fire for about lialf-an-hour. Skim off all the fat, add a little butter kneaded with flour to thicken, and a little minced parsley, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Tripe a la Caennaise. Cut 21b. of well-washed Tripe into 3in. squares, blanch, drain, and put them into a saucepan with 41b. of streaky bacon cut into cubes about lin. thick, and a calf’s foot, boned and cut into half-a-dozen pieces, and blanch with a little bacon; pour over is all. of rich broth, add three whole onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, three cloves, 1 teacupful of brandy, and a little each of salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan, boil up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer very slowly for about three hours. Take out the bunch of herbs and onions, skim well, pour the whole into a dish, and serve. Tripe A la Creole.—Cut 1411). of Tripe into small pieces, fry them in a pan with 2oz. of butter, one chopped onion.