648 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Boned Turkey a l’Americaine.—(1) Procure a fine tender young Turkey weighing about 8lh., singe and draw it, neatly wipe the interior, and hone it. Season the inside with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper evenly distributed. Place the bird on a dish, and lay it on the ice-box till wanted. Take ‘2lb. of lean raw veal, 31b. of fresh pork, and Jib. of larding pork, all cut up into small dice-shaped pieces; season with 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of white pepper, J saltspoonful each of grated nutmeg and thyme, and mix all well together. Place all in the chopping machine, and chop it exceedingly fine, repeating the process, if necessary, until it is chopped to perfection. Should there be any sinews among the in- gredients, remove them all. Place it on a cold dish, and set it away in the ice to cool until the following is prepared. Have ready Jilt, of the end (red) part of a cooked smoked beef tongue, and eighteen medium-sized truffles, both cut in dice-shaped pieces Jin. square. Take the forcemeat from the ice, and thoroughly mix the tongue and truffles with it, pouring in also 1 wineglassful of madeira wine; J breakfast-cupful of peeled pistachios can be added if liked. Take the Turkey from the ice, spread it on a clean table (skin side downwards), and with a sharp knife cut away even slices from the breast; arrange these on the thin parts, so that the Turkey has an equal thickness all over. Place the forcemeat right in the centre of the bird, column shaped, leaving a clear space of 2in. at each end, and of 4in. at each side. Spread on a table a strong napkin, sprinkling over it a little cold water. Fold up both ends of the Turkey, then both sides, lift and lay it in the centre of the napkin, roll it carefully in this, and tightly tie one end first, then the other. Place it in a large saucepan on the hot range, with the carcass, bones, and trimmings, completely cover with cold water, and place the lid on; when coming to a boil, thoroughly skim it, then add one medium-sized scraped carrot, and one peeled onion with three cloves stuck in, season with 1 pinch of salt, and boil on a moderate fire for fully two-hours-and-a-half. Remove the Turkey with a skimmer, let it cool enough to be easily handled, cut the strings at both ends, roll it over again as before, and tie tightly both ends as before. Lay it in a flat tin pan, placing on the top of it a board the size of the Turkey, and on top of that a weight, leaving the weight on until the Turkey is thoroughly cold, which will take several hours; but avoid placing it in the ice until thoroughly cold. Two days after this it will be ready for use, keeping it in the ice in the same napkin in which it was cooked. (2) Take a young chicken, disjoint it, take off the skin, and remove the bones and tough sinews. Cut the meat from the breast and thighs in long strips, and put them on one side. Prepare the following stuffing: Cut off the remainder of the meat, and chop it up with 1 lb. of raw lean veal, add 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and moisten the whole with boiling stock, seasoning with thyme, salt, and pepper to taste. Take a Turkey, bone it, and fill the legs and wings with the stuffing; put the fillets which were cut off when boning on the skin below the breast, then a layer of forcemeat stuffing, with a little potted ham or tongue put here and there, then a layer of the fillets of chicken previously cut off, next a layer of the stuffing. Tie up the bird into its original shape in a cloth. Put the trimmings of the veal, together with the chicken and Turkey bones, into a saucepan, with sufficient water to cover them, and put it on the fire to boil. When it begins to boil, put the Turkey in a steamer on the top of the saucepan, and let it steam for three hours. When done, take it out, remove the cloth, sprinkle flour and salt over it, and put it in the oven to bake for an hour, when it should be well browned. Let it get cold, put it on a dish, garnish with parsley, jelly, carrots, and beetroots, all cut into various shapes, and serve. Boned Turkey in Aspic Jelly.—The Turkey is prepared and cooked as for Boned Turkey a l’Americaine. Take the liquor in which the bones, &c., were boiled, skim it, and thicken with loz. of gelatine, previously soaked in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Make a brown aspic Turkeys—continued. jelly with veal or chicken stock, and also a dark jelly with beef stock. Put a mould in the ice, and pour in a little of the brown jelly to about Jin. in depth. Let this get hard, and then garnish it with vegetables of different colours cut in pieces, slices of hard-boiled eggs, rings of macaroni, Italian paste, &c., and fasten each piece in its place with a little liquid jelly. When set, pour in a little more of the jelly, and let it harden ; then put in the Turkey, taking care not to break the jelly, and keep- ing the bird in its place with a little more liquid jelly. When it is all hard, fill up the mould with the jelly, adding it very slowly. Let the mould remain on the ice until wanted, when dip it quickly into warm water, and turn the contents out. Put a garnish of the chopped dark jelly round it, with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Braised Larded Turkey.—Prepare and truss an old Turkey. Have ready some large lardons, roll them in salt, pepper, and other finely-powdered spices, and dried sweet herbs, all well mixed together, and lard the Turkey with them. Lay some slices of bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, and put the Turkey on them, together with its feet and two small knuckles of veal, six peeled onions, foul scraped and washed carrots, a small bunch of parsley, a scallion or two, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, and three cloves; lay slices of bacon over all, and over that a piece of buttered paper. Pour in 1 qt. of stock, or more if the Turkey be a large one. Set the pan on the fire with ashes on the lid, and simmer for tliree-liours-and-a-half; then remove the pan from the fire, but let the Turkey remain in it for at least half-an-hour. Strain off the liquor, and boil it till it is reduced to one-fourth its original bulk. Break an egg, beat it up in a saucepan, pour the liquor on to it, and beat them well together; if it is not suffi- ciently flavoured, add sweet herbs, parsley, and scallion to it, put it over the fire, and do not cease stirring it till it boils; when it has boiled up, draw it to the side of the stove, lay red-hot ashes on top of the saucepan, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, let it stand till cold, and serve it with the Turkey. Braised Larded Turkey with Chestnut Puree.—Singe and draw a small Turkey, break the breast bone, cut the legs at the first joint, and remove the bone to shorten the legs. When the legs have been singed, introduce them into the thighs by the opening of the drumsticks. Finely chop some beef-suet, mix an equal quantity of bread- crumbs with it, stuff the crop of the Turkey with it, and truss the bird with strong string. Set the skin of the breast and legs by singeing, and lard it with bacon. Put some trimmings of bacon and vegetables in a braising- pan, put in the Turkey, moisten it to height with broth, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. When boil- ing, move the pan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, and let the broth simmer till the Turkey, which should be constantly basted with its own cooking liquor, is done. Glaze the breast of the bird with a paste-brush, and when nicely browned drain it, and put it on to a hot dish. Mix an equal quantity of white wine with the cooking liquor, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half glaze. Serve the Turkey with the sauce in a sauceboat and a separate dish of chestnut puree. Braised Turkey.—Draw a Turkey, truss it as for boiling, and stuff it with a chestnut-and-truffle stuffing, which should be made as follows: Peel off the dark skin of a quantity of chestnuts, put them in a saucepan with two bay-leaves, a handful of coriander seeds, a lump of salt, and plenty of water, and boil them; when nearly soft, drain them, and peel off the inner skin. Put lib. of finely-minced bacon and two or three chojiped shallots into a stewpan, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Cut lib. of the chestnuts up into small pieces, put them in with the bacon, add Jib. of truffles, also cut into moderate-sized pieces, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and a moderate quantity each of powdered thyme and marjoram. Stir the mixture over the