TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 510 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Squashes—continued. (2) Squashes, if very young, may be boiled-whole; if not they should be pared, quartered, and the seeds taken out. When boiled very tender, take them up, put them in a strong cloth, press out all the water, mash them, adding salt and butter to taste. Cut it in narrow strips, take oft' the rind, and boil the Squash in water till tender; then drain off the water, and let the Squash steam over a moderate fire for ten or twelve minutes. It is good mashed with a little butter. (3) Peel the Squash if the shell be soft, and remove the seeds; put it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it. When cooked, strain all the water off the Squash, and for each pint mix with it loz. of butter and \ teaspoonful of sugar. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir it over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then turn it on to a hot dish and serve. If the shell of the Squash be hard, split the Squash, remove the seeds, and steam or boil until soft; then scrape on t the soft part from the shell, mash it, return it to the saucepan, and season as above. Mashed Squashes.—(1) Wash the Squashes and cut them into small pieces without removing the skin and seeds. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil them until soft, which will take nearly half an- hour. Then turn the Squash into a cloth, mash it, and squeeze it until all the moisture is extracted; return the Squash to the saucepan with A teacupful of cream for each pint, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until thoroughly hot again. Turn the Squash on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Choose white cymlings that may be easily cut with the thumb-nail. Cut them in pieces, boil Them for about three-quarters-of-an hour or till soft enough to Mash, rub them through a colander or coarse sieve, then put them in the saucepan over the fire again, with a small lump of butter, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of cream. Serve very hot. , Squash. Pie.—Peel a Squash, cut it into pieces about 2in. square, remove the seeds without taking away any of the substance of the Squash, and put it to steam in a colander closely covered and set over a saucepan of boiling water; or place it in a porcelain-lined saucepan without water, and set it over a gentle fire where it will soften slowly without burning, stirring it occasionally to prevent this; or boil it until tender in sufficient water to cover it. When the Squash is tender, drain it until it is quite free from water, and rub it through a sieve or a fine colander with the back of a wooden spoon or a vegetable-masher. Mix lqt. of the Squash so prepared with lqt. of milk, four well-beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of mixed ground cinna- mon, mace, and ginger, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and use it to fill two large pie- dishes lined with a good plain paste. Do not cover the pies with pastry, but grate a little nutmeg over the top, or sprinkle over them the grated yellow rind of a lemon, and bake. Squash. Pudding.—Take a good-sized Squash, stew it, bruise it well, and mix with it the pulp of six large apples, stewed tender. Add 7 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs and a small grated nutmeg, mix these well with the fruit, and add salt and sugar to taste. Beat up and add six eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and 2 table- spoonfuls of red wine. Beat this mixture together till quite smooth, and bake it for three quarters-of-an-hour in a dish lined with puff' paste. Stewed Squash.—(1) Peel a Squash, cut it into small pieces, and boil it in boiling salted water until it is tender. Drain it, put it into a clean towel, and wring out all the water; put it again into a saucepan over the fire with 2 piled table spoonfuls of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper; stir it until it is hot, and serve. (2) If the skin of the Squash be tough, peel it; other wise slice the vegetable, after first washing it in cold water; put it over the fire in a saucepan with just enough boiling water to cover it, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until it is tender enough to mash through a colander. When the Squash is drained and mashed, to each pint of it add a gill of cream and the beaten yolk Squashes—continued. of 1 egg, season it with salt and pepper, return it to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire just long enough to heat it thoroughly. Serve it hot; or scallop the Squash with the addition of breadcrumbs and salt, pepper, and butter, and brown it in the oven. SQUIRRELS .—America seems to be largely infested by these animals, the woods teeming with many varieties, such as the Black Squirrel, Red Squirrel, Grey Squirrel, and others. As they are exceptionally select in their food, living principally upon nuts and grain, they have been accepted as food animals, and are greatly sought after by those who have tasted them cooked after any of the following receipts : Barbecued Squirrel.—Put slices of fat bacon in a baking- dish. Skin and wash a Squirrel, wipe it dry, lay it on the bacon, and put two slices of fat bacon on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and when cooked lay it on a hot dish and keep it in front of the fire until wanted to serve. Take the bacon out of the baking-dish, dredge into the gravy 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until brown. Pour into the gravy 1 teacupful of brown stock, a little walnut ketchup or tomato sauce, and a Fig. 656. Bariiecved Squirrel. small lump of butter; Stir the above mixture over the fire till the butter has dissolved, then take it off, cool it a little, pour it over the Squirrel, garnish with stewed corn-and-potato balls (see Fig 656), and serve. Broiled Squirrel.—Wash a Squirrel, wipe it dry, brush it over with warmed bacon-fat or butter, and broil it over a clear fire for about ten minutes. When cooked, put the Squirrel on a hot dish, place some slices of broiled salt pork on the top of it, and pour over some rich brown gravy; garnish round with nicely boiled potatoes, and serve. Squirrel Pie.—Skin a pair of Squirrels, wipe them all over with a wet cloth to remove the hairs, and cut them in joints, saving the blood and removing the entrails. The liver, heart, and kidneys may be used in the pie if desired. Chop lib. of beef-suet as fine as possible, rejecting all the membrane; mix it with lAlb. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Butter an earthenware baking-dish. Add enough cold water to the suet and flour to make a crust J-in. thick. Line the dish with the crust, put in the Squirrel meat and blood, adding enough cold water to half fill the pie-dish; season highly with salt and pepper, cover with the crust, wetting all the edges to make them adhere so closely that the gravy cannot escape. In the middle of the top crust, cut a little slit to permit the escape of the steam while the pie is being baked. Bake the pic in a moderate oven for about two hours. When the crust is nearly brown enough cover it with buttered paper, and when quite done serve it hot in the dish in which it was baked. Stewed Squirrels.—Skin two pairs of fat Squirrels, wash them quickly in cold water, or carefully wipe them with a wet cloth to remove the hail's, and cut them into quarters, rejecting the intestines. Put a layer of slices of fat salt pork into a saucepan, then place the Squirrels on the top with a seasoning of salt anil pepper, and either a little more salt pork or Jib. of good beef or veal dripping, or butter; add enough water to prevent burning, cover the saucepan, and cook the Squirrels gently until they are tender. When they are nearly done, uncover the sauce- pan, so that the water in which they were cooked can evaporate, put in enough cream or good milk to moisten