444 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sheep—continued. toast them on a fork, one at a time, holding it so that all that drips from the pork will fall upon the slices of kidney. As the slices of pork are done, lay them on another hot tin dish. When all are done, put the dish of pork in the place of the dish of kidneys, and toast the slices of kidneys so that all that falls from them drips on to the pork, turning them often and taking care to lose none of the gravy. When no more gravy drips, they are done. Toast, trim into shape, and cut the crust oil' a slice or two of bread, butter it, put it on a hot dish, and lay the slices of kidney on it; cut the pork into strips and lay it round them, pour the gravy over, shake a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Liver.—Although sheep have the best of calves and pigs in the matter of kidneys, it can never he said that Sheep’s Liver in any way equals the liver of those animals. Nevertheless it is sometimes used, and can be made very nice if prepared as follows: Pried Sheep’s Liver.—(1) Cut a Sheep’s Liver into dice, having previously washed it, put it into a frying-pan with a little butter, season with pepper, salt, and a laurel - leaf, and fry it. When the liver is cooked, take it out of the frying-pan, and keep it warm in a moderate oven. Chop some onions, and fry them in the remainder of the butter; when brown, stir in a little stock and flour; when boiling, put the pieces of liver in again, add a liaison of eggs, and a few drops of lemon-juice, and stir it over the fire till thick; then pour it on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Cut the liver into slices, lay them on a deep dish, pour over sufficient fresh milk to cover them, and let them soak. Afterwards drain the slices of liver, and dust them over with flour. Peel and slice an onion, put it into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter or lard, and fry it until somewhat browned. Next put in the slices of liver, season them with pepper, but not salt, and fry them brown. Mix about 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour smoothly with f pint of cold water, pour it over the slices of liver when they are brown, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, put the liver and onions on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Sheep’s Liver.—Cut an equal quantity of Sheep’s Liver and fat bacon into nice slices, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with some of the bacon, then put in a layer of the liver, next the remainder of the bacon, and lastly the liver: season with salt and pepper, and strew over the top some chopped apple and onion in equal quantities. Cover the whole with a plate or flat dish, put it in a moderate oven, and stew until tender. No other moisture but that which comes from the liver will be required. When the liver is cooked, stand the pie-disli on a flat dish, and serve. Sheep’s Milk. —At one time in the history of this country the milk of the ewe was greatly prized. It contains a much larger proportion of fat and caseine in its constitution, and a smaller proportion of sugar than that of either goats or cows. In all culinary respects it may be treated as if it were cow’s milk. Sheep’s Pluck.—Amongst certain classes this is a favourite and inexpensive food. A Sheep’s “ Pluck and Jemmy” can be bought cheaply enough of any offal merchant, and whilst the head (jemmy) makes a sound stock for Scotch broth, the pluck (consisting of lungs and heart), after careful cleaning, can be converted into a nice stew as follows : Put the lights and heart of a Sheep’s Pluck in a bowl of water, and leave them for about one-hour-and-a-half, until all the blood has disgorged. Drain the heart and lights, and cut them into small pieces, as near one size as possible. Put two chopped onions in a saucepan with a small lump of dripping, and toss them about over a brisk fire until nicely browned ; then put in the pieces of heart and lights, with a small quantity of powdered marjoram, and 1 pint of water, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire for two hours. In the meantime, Sheep—contimoed. cook a sufficient quantity of rice and potatoes. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve it with the rice and potatoes in separate dishes. Sheep’s Tails.—Every epicure recognises the tail of the sheep as a dainty not to be overlooked. When cooked with the haunch or leg it is eagerly coveted, the fat being particularly soft and mellow. When they can be obtained separately and in sufficient quantities, they may be cooked as follows: Braised Sheep’s Tails with Green Peas Puree.—Steep the tails in warm water to disgorge the blood. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, carrots, turnips, and onions; drain and put the tails in with a bunch of sweet herbs, season them with salt, pepper, and small quantities each of mace and allspice, cover them with two or three slices of fat bacon, and moisten them with a little broth. Put the lid on the stewpan, and braise the tails over a slow fire. When cooked, drain and glaze the tails, and put them in a slow oven to dry. Arrange them on a hot dish with a puree of green peas under them, and serve very hot. Broiled Sheep’s Tails.—Clean the tails and lay them in a basin, cover them well with warm water, and leave them until all the blood has disgorged. Braise the tails until tender, then drain them. When nearly cold, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in finely-grated stale breadcrumbs; next roll them in warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, Fig. 567. Broiled Sheep’s Tails. turning them to brown equally. Put the tails on a hot disli that has been covered with a fancy-edged dish- paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve them with a sauceboatful of rich gravy in the centre. (See Fig. 567). Stewed Sheep’s Tails and Tongues.—Clean the tails and tongues of three Sheep, cut the tails in halves and split the tongues, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew till tender. Skim off all the fat, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, three onions, and 1 teaspoonful each of mixed spice and salt. When done, take out the tails and tongues, dip them in butter warmed to melting, then dip them in sifted bread- crumbs, and leave them for a few minutes; cover with more butter and crumbs, smoothing them on with a knife, and brown them before the fire. Strain the gravy, pour it into a dish, put in the tongues and tails, and serve very hot. Sheep’s Tongues.—In order to prepare these nicely they should be supplied to the cook quite freshly removed from the sheep’s head. It is customary for butchers to nearly cook them in order to get off the skin, and then they are apt to be hard and tough. It should be observed that by itself the Sheep’s Tongue has not much flavour, consequently it merely forms the basis for other tasty preparations, and at all times requires much artistic handling. Braised Larded Sheep’s Tongues.—Put three or'four Sheep's Tongues into a saucepan of water, and boil them for about two hours; then take them out, skin and lard them Put a few slices of bacon and beef cut about tin. thick into a braising-pan, add a seasoning of mixed herbs, thyme, laurel-leaves, onions, carrots, grated nutmeg, mixed spice, salt and pepper to taste; place the tongues over these and cover over with a similar seasoning, moistening with