THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 563 Table Service—continued. At the top, just to the right of the end of the outside large knife, put your tallest and largest wineglass, and then group the others below, but always slanting a little towards the right, and close together. Place sherry, hock, claret, and champagne glasses, or glasses suitable to the wines to be served, in this way. For every-day dinners, sherry and claret glasses are generally sufficient, or sherry, hock, and claret; but if there is to be champagne, hock may not be needed (see Wines). Port wine glasses are not used for late dinners. Never turn glasses upside down on a table. Set close together, but not piled, on your sideboard all forks, spoons, ladles, knives, slices, and other articles that are likely to be required during the service. Fig. 743. Butler’s Tray or Stand (Adams and Son). Do not lay a soup-ladle, gravy-spoon, or fish-slice on the table—keep them on the sideboard until they are wanted. Carving-knives and forks should be laid with their handles in line with other knives and forks, and iheir tips on rests. No rule can be given for the laying of salt-cellars or cruets—much depends upon the facilities at hand. A very handy adjunct to a small dinner is the butler’s tray (see Fig. 743). Let this, when used, be covered by a white cloth. It is useful to hold glasses, spoons, forks, and the utensils for the cheese course. For small luncheons and suppers a folding tray (see Fig. 744) is very useful, as it can be laid with a cloth, loaded, and the ends of the cloth folded over the contents. Fig. 744. Folding Luncheon or Supper Tray (Adams and Son). It is placed on the table, the flaps are let down by releasing some bolts, and the cloth is spread from it. When it is time for the cheese course, lay a small knife and fork, and a small plate to each guest. A dinner-wagon should be used for holding the plates, spoons, knives, forks, finger-glass, and d’oyleys for dessert. Spare dishes also of dried fruits, biscuits, compotes, wines, &c. Strawberries, cherries, and fresh fruits generally should be garnished with fresh leaves. Never use artificial Table Service—continued. leaves for this purpose. Bon-bons, crystallised fruits, cakes, and biscuits look best served on ornamental dish- papers. Fig. 745. Wooden Knife Tray (Adams and Son). As a supplement to the foregoing, it may be observed that the attendants or waiters at a table should be thoroughly instructed and conversant with the details of service it is their duty to carry out. When taking a charged plate from the carver, another should be at hand to replace the one removed. For handling these a napkin or white cloth is advisable; but, under no circumstances, except at a restaurant, should the waiter carry a cloth. A supply for unforeseen use should be at hand, neatly folded, and laid on a side-table; but it is only in extreme cases, such as accidents, that they should be required. Plates, knives, and other articles should be thoroughly dusted and quite clean ready for use, before being brought into the dining-room. Everything cold, except change plates, should be brought to table on a salver, with a small fringed cloth laid on but not over it. Dirty knives and forks should be collected in a tray, having compartments for each. It may be made of Fig. 746. Wicker Tin-lined Knife Tray (Adams and Son). wood (see Fig. 745), or of wicker lined with tin (see Fig. 746). Dirty plates should be put into a convenient plate basket (see Fig. 747) and taken out of the room to be emptied after each change. The foregoing hints and instructions do not by any means constitute all that might be written on the subject. Many pages might be filled with ease, but it is doubtful whether more valuable instruction could be given to those who are supposed to have some know- ledge of the fashions governing the tasks they have undertaken to fulfil. What further space can be devoted to the subject of Table Service must be used to treat of the higher branches, embraced by the national titles of Ser- vice a la Frangaise, Service a la Russe, and Service a l’Anglaise, the latter being virtually a happy combination of the two former. Urbain-Dubois—one who should know—tells us that “ The two courses of a dinner a la Frangaise are founded on rules which cannot be infringed without prejudicing the harmony of the dinner. Thus, when the first course is composed of two removes and four entrees, the second course requires two roasts and four en- tremets.” The first course of a dinner a la Frangaise consists of all the dishes served from the soups to the roasts; the second course includes the roasts and en- tremets, to the sweets, which may be said to constitute a third course, and includes cheese and dessert. Fig. 747. Tin-lined Wicker Plate Basket (Adams and Son). For details respecting Culinary Proce$ses} Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 o 2