5 63 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Tapioca—continued. gently at the side of the fire until dissolved, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When sufficiently stewed turn the Tapioca into a basin, remove the hay- leaf and lemon peel, and leave it until cold. Sweeten 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and whisk it to a stiff froth. Mix the cream gradually with the Tapioca, being very careful to leave no lumps, then pile it on a glass dish, and serve. (4) Boil 2oz. of Tapioca in water till reduced to a jelly. Put a thick layer of any kind of jam at the bottom of a glass dish, pour the Tapioca over it, and set it on ice or m a cool larder. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, and Sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. When the Tapioca is cold and firm, pile the cream on the top of it, and serve. (5) Put 1 teacupful of sago into an enamelled saucepan, with lqt. of fresh milk and loaf sugar to taste, and let it boil gently until tender, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When cooked, flavour it with vanilla, and leave it until cold. Whip 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, mix it with the sago, and serve. (6) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Tapioca into a saucepan with some cold water, and boil it until dissolved. Put lqt. of new milk into a lined saucepan with two laurel leaves and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and boil it until flavoured. Strain the boiling milk over the Tapioca, mixing it well, and add three beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Pour the whole back into the lined saucepan, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened (but do not boil it again), then pour it into a glass dish. When cold, ice it over with an icing made of white of egg and caster sugar, and serve. This dish may be accompanied with stewed fruits Or preserves, if liked. Tapioca Cream Soup.—(1) Put a large slice of ham into a saucepan with jib. of butter, sprinkle in 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then pour in a little thick soup, and stir well until the liquor is quite thick. Put 3qts. each of milk and rich stock into a saucepan, strain the thickening into it, add a blade of mace, 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-chopped onion, half that quantity each of turnips and carrots, also finely chopped, and lastly a little more than 1 teacupful of Tapioca. Boil very slowly until the grains of Tapioca are quite transparent, add 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, pour the soup into the tureen, and serve. (2) Wash and soak j breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of rich white stock, and boil for about an hour. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream into a saucepan, add a little mace, and one onion and two stalks of celery cut up into small pieces, and boil for about twenty minutes. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the stock and Tapioca, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, stir well o'er the fire for a minute or two, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Tapioca Custard.—Steep 7oz. of Tapioca in lqt. of cold milk, and set it in a warm place. Put into a saucepan 2qts. of milk with 2oz. of sugar; when boiling, add the steeped Tapioca, and cook for a quarter-of-an-hour. Stir in 2oz. of butter, then the yolks of twelve eggs well beaten, and remove the pan at once from the fire. Let the custard cool, flavour it with vanilla or lemon, and pour it into the freezer; when nearly frozen, add 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream whipped to a froth, and beat well before using. Tapioca Custard Pudding.—Take 1 breakfast-cupful of Tapioca, pour over it just sufficient water to cover it, and let it steep all night. Beat up the yolks of five eggs quite light. Pour lqt. of milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when warm stir in the beaten yolks, and jib. of powdered white sugar. Sprinkle a little salt, about as much as would lie on a threepenny piece, over the soaked Tapioca, take the milk and eggs from the fire before they boil, and beat into it. Whisk the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, stir them quickly and lightly into the pudding, Tapioca—continued. pour it into a buttered pudding basin, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven with a dish turned down over it to cover till the custard thickens; then take it out of the oven, take the cover off, lift it out of the hot water, and put it in the hot part of the oven to brown. Serve either hot or cold. Tapioca Drink.—Well wash loz. of Tapioca in a good supply of cold water, put it when drained into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it gently until it is dissolved, stirring frequently. Flavour to taste, and it is ready for use. Water may be substituted for the milk, but the latter is most nourishing. Tapioca Gratine.—(1) Put 1 qt. of milk into an enamelled saucepan with the finely-grated rind of a lemon, and boil it for a few minutes ; next take out the lemon-peel, sprinkle in gradually 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Tapioca, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until tender, keeping it well stirred with a wooden spoon. When cooked, let the Tapioca get cool, then stir in with it four well-beaten eggs. Thickly butter a plain mould, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, pour the mixture into it, and bake until nicely browned. When ready, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Well wash and pick over 2oz. of Tapioca, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity each of sugar and salt, hut letting the former predominate, add a laurel-leaf, and pour over lqt. of boiling milk. Set the saucepan over a slow fire, and let the liquor boil until the Tapioca is soft and quite done. Turn the whole into a gratin-dish, and cook it over the fire until it is gratined, letting it stick well to the bottom. Remove the laurel-leaf, cover over the dish, and serve. Tapioca Jelly.—(1) Put j teacupful of Tapioca into a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and let it steep for two hours, putting the basin in a warm place. Put 2 more breakfast-cupfuls of water into a saucepan, add 6oz. of sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon cut up into very small pieces or shreds, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Boil for a few minutes, pour in the Tapioca and water, and cook gently for about twenty minutes on the side of the fire, by which time the Tapioca should be quite transparent. Add a little syrup of cranberries or burnt sugar to colour, pour the jelly into a mould, let it set, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with sweet cream. The colouring may be dispensed with. Fio. 754. Tapioca Jelly. (2) "Well wash and soak 2oz. of pearl Tapioca, put it into a jar, add the grated rind of a lemon, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Put the jar into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and continue the cooking until the mixture begins to thicken. Add 1 breakfast-cupful more of water, and let it boil for half-an-hour, stirring