TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 546 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sweetbreads—continued. sauce, place it over a bowl of hot water for five minutes, or until the meat and mushrooms are hot. Remove from the fire, and add quickly I teaspoonful of lemon juice and one well-beaten egg. Turn the whole on to a dish, and serve with a moulded potato border (see Fig. 724). Chartreuse of Sweetbreads.—Wash three Sweetbreads and blanch them till firm, then lard them with bacon. Put them in a saucepan with some slices of bacon, carrots, turnips, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with broth, and braise them; when cooked, glaze them till nicely browned. Boil some carrots and turnips in salted water, but keep them firm; when cooked, drain and cut them into pieces a little over lin. in length. When cold, cut the boiled carrots and turnips slantwise at both ex- tremities, and arrange them against the sides of a buttered border mould, reversing the rows and putting one strip of carrot to two strips of turnip. Fill the mould with mashed potatoes that have been beaten together with yolks of eggs and butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and poach in a bain-marie. When firm turn the border on to a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked mush- rooms, and arrange the Sweetbreads on the top. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a button-mushroom and a large quenelle that has been studded with squares of truttles and poached; fix the skewer in the centre of the Sweet- breads. Mix a little of the strained and skimmed cooking- liquor of the Sweetbreads with some tomato sauce,-boil it up, then serve it in a sauceboat with the chartreuse. Collops of Sweetbreads with Green Peas.—Soak four large Sweetbreads in warm water to remove all the blood, then blanch them till firm. Cut the Sweetbreads into large collops, put them into a frying-pan with some butter, and fry over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, drain the butter oft’ the Sweetbreads, put a little glaze in the pan, and stir them till well glazed. Arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with boiled green peas, and serve. Creamed Sweetbreads.—Wash and boil the required number of Sweetbreads for twenty minutes, then drain and chop them into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with some white sauce, and boil for a few minutes. Toast some slices of bread from a tin-loaf, remove the crusts, butter them, cut them into halves or quarters, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the creamed Sweetbreads over the toast, and serve while very hot. Curried Sweetbreads.—Take two veal Sweetbreads and cut them into pieces about 2in. square. Put in a pan over the fire f pint of good veal stock, an onion sliced and fried, 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and vinegar, salt to taste, and loz. of butter with sufficient flour rubbed into it to thicken the gravy; stir till it boils, then put in the Sweetbreads, and let them simmer for half-an-hour or longer. Fricandeau of Sweetbreads.—Skin and wash some Sweet- breads, blanch, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef, put in some slices of carrots and onions, thyme, laurel-leaves, and season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and mixed spices; then put in the Sweetbreads, cover them well with some of the same seasoning, and moisten with a little broth. Fix the lid on tightly, solder the edges with hot- water paste so that no air can be admitted, put some live embers on the lid, set the pan over a slow fire, and cook the contents for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, add 1 pinch of caster sugar to it, and boil till reduced. Glaze the Sweet- breads with the reduced sauce. Put the Sweetbreads on a pur4e of chicory that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with stewed cucumbers, and serve. Fried Sweetbreads.—(1) Having trimmed the Sweetbreads, steep them in cold water until they have disgorged their blood, then blanch them for five minutes in boiling saited water and drain them. Line the bottom of a stewpan with pieces of fat bacon, onions, and carrots; put in the Sweetbreads with a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices; moisten with Sweetbreads—continued. a small quantity of clear stock, and braise them over a gentle fire. When tender, drain the Sweetbreads, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. When ready cut the Sweetbreads into slices of a moderate thickness. Warm 3oz. of butter, ami beat it up well with the yolks of two eggs and about 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water; add salt to taste, and beat in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to bring the latter to the proper consistency; continue beating it until perfectly smooth, then mix in the whites of two eggs that have been whisked to a stiff froth. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises dip the slices of Sveetbreail in the batter, coating them well, then put them nto the boiling lard, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each slice is cooked, take it out of the fat and drain it on paper. Arrange the slices on a hot dish, garnish them with a thick border of fried parsley and some lemon quarters ; serve while hot. (2) Trim a veal Sweetbread, soak it for a short time, and scald it; then stew it in milk for half-an-hour. Let it cool, then brash it over with beaten egg; roll it in a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. Serve hot with some good gravy and button-mushrooms for garnish. Fried Sweetbreads a l’ltalienne.—Wash and boil some Sweetbreads, then drain and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into three slices each, season them with pepper and salt, and dredge them well with flour. Put a teacupful of finely-chopped fine herbs in a basin, break Fig. 725. Fried Sweethreads a l’Itai.ienne. in two eggs, and beat them well. Dip the pieces of Sweetbread in the above mixture, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Fry the Sweetbreads in boiling lard till nicely browned on both sides, then drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 725), and serve. Fried Sweetbreads with Ferigueux Sauce.—Boil the Sweetbreads, leave them till cold, then cut them into slices. Melt a little butter in a flat stewpan, put in the slices of Sweetbreads, dust a little pepper and salt over them, and fry on both sides; add 41b. of truffles cut in small pieces and a small quantity of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan, cook the contents till the moisture has reduced to a glaze, then pour in a little biown sauce and stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Butter a border- mould, fill it with veal quenelle forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. When firm, turn the forcemeat out of the mould on to a hot dish, put the ragout in the centre, and serve. Larded Sweetbreads.—(1) Partially boil the Sweetbreads, then drain and leave them till cold. Lard the Sweetbreads with strips of bacon and lemon peel, putting the bacon in the centre and the peel down the sides. Place them n a stewpan with brown gravy to a little more than half their height, and let them simmer gently for half-an-hour. Arrange the Sweetbreads on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a little flour, season it to taste with lemon-juice and ketchup, and pour it over the Sweetbreads. The Sweet breads should be served while very hot. (2) Boil the Sweetbreads till cooked, then drain and leave them till cold. Cut the Sweetbreads into slices, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put the Sweet- breads in a baking-dish, sprinkle finely-chopped onions and a small quantity of mixed herbs over them, and pour in, but only to the height of the Sweetbreads, some brown gravy and stiffly-reduced soup mixed in equal proportions. Bake the Sweetbreads till brown on the top, basting them