527 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Stuffing—continued. potatoes, an<l a little sweet marjoram anil summer savory nibbed to a fine powder; add sufficient eggs to moisten, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. A little sausage-meat, grated ham, and a few oysters or chopped mushrooms may be added, and are quite an improvement, also a few walnuts, filberts, and roasted chestnuts, all reduced to a paste, and the grated rind of a lemon. A few cooked truffles also improve it, and some may also be served in the gravy with the bird. Stuffing for Veal.—(1) Trim off the skin, and finely mince Jib. of beef-suet; mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ham, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the grated peel of a lemon. Season the Stuffing to taste with salt and pepper, and bind it with one beaten egg. It is then ready for use. (2) Skin and finely chop lib. of beef suet, and mix it with lib. of stale breadcrumbs and fib. of boiled ham that has been cut up into very small squares. Season the mixture with grated lemon-peel, pepper, and a very small quantity of salt, as the ham will make it nearly salt enough. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and use it when well mixed. Turkish Stuffing for Poultry.—Put 2 handfuls of rice into a saucepan of water and parboil it; mix in ten or twelve chestnuts peeled and cut into small pieces, 1 handful of currants, and the same of pistachio-nuts ; put the mixture into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, stir well over the fire till thoroughly mixed, seasoning with salt and pepper, and if desired a little ground cinnamon, and it is ready for use. This Stuffing is used for turkeys, other birds, and mutton, or anything else when to be roasted whole. STURGEON (Fr. Esturgeon; Ger. Stor; Ital. Storione; Sp. Esturion).—This “royal” fish (Acipenser sturio) is found along the coast of North America, Europe, and Asia, frequenting river mouths, where it finds plenty of congenial food. Towards the time for spawning it finds its way up rivers, and some very fine specimens have been caught in the Thames. The custom of presenting those caught in British rivers to the reigning monarch has gained for this ungainly monster a regal dignity. Fig. 686. Sturgeon. The Sturgeon (see Fig. 686) has all the peculiarities of the shark except teeth; the snout is long and pointed, and the body protected by five rows of prominent bony plates, one passing down the centre of the back, and the others two on each side. They grow to an enoivmous size, some having been caught measuring from the tip of the snout to the point of its shark-like tail upwards of eighteen feet. The flesh is hard and indigestible; that of the back resembling veal in flavour, and the belly being likened to pork. The female when full of roe assumes an extraordinary weight, it being estimated that the roe itself weighs two-thirds of the entire fish. This is made into caviare, and the bladders into isinglass. For culinary purposes the young Sturgeon, called sterlet, is preferable, but some cooks can render a very good account of the flesh of the fully-grown fish; whichever it may be, the treatment is very much the same. The dis- tinction being merely in size, that is, whether a part or whole fish is to be cooked at once. When preparing the fish for cooking, the inside must be carefully removed, and the skin stripped from the larger fish, the very small fish merely require the trimming away of the sharp scales, and the scraping of the skin. The flesh Sturgeon—continued. of the sterlet is yellow. The large cord that is found ad- hering to the gristly parts of the interior, and answering to the backbone, must be carefully removed. Baked Sturgeon.—(1) Cut the fish into slices about lin. in thickness, place them in a baking-dish, put over them some chopped mixed herbs, salt and pepper, a little olive oil and the juice of one lemon, and bake the fish. When cooked, arrange the slices of Sturgeon on a hot dish, pass their cooking-liquor through a silk sieve, pour it over the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of remoulade sauce. (2) Clean the piece of fish, and let it marinade in cold salted water for an hour or so before cooking. Put some water in a fish-kettle with an onion and 1 table spoonful of vinegar; when boiling, put in the Sturgeon and boil it for half an-hour. Take the fish out, being careful not to break it, brush it over with beaten egg, and cover thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb; put it in a baking- dish with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, and place it in the oven until the surface has become hot enough to set the breadcrumbs; then put in a lump of butter, and baste it continually until brown. Boil some potatoes, and when cooked mash them with butter, pepper, and salt. Put the fish on a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round it, having made them into small halls, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (3) Thoroughly wash a piece of the fish and skin it; put it in a baking-disli and bake it for a-quarter-of-an- hour. At the end of that time take the fish out of the baking-dish, and pierce it with a knife in several places. Prepare a stuffing with some meat out of the stockpot, some breadcrumbs, onions, parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt, all chopped up and mixed together. Fill the hole in the fish with the mixture, put what is left over in the bottom of the baking-dish, put in the fish, and hake it till done. When cooked, put the Sturgeon on a hot dish, garnish round with the forcemeat in the pan, and serve while hot. Blanquette of Sturgeon with Green Peas.—The follow- ing is an excellent way to use up the cold remains of roasted Sturgeon. Simmer 1 teacupful of peas till tender in ) h teacupfuls of broth, then put in 3 table-spoonfuls of sauce tournee, add a small lump of sugar, anil boil the mixture till reduced to a thick creamy consist- ency; move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Cut the pieces of Sturgeon into small round pieces, put them in the sauce, and heat gently. Put a border of potatoes on to a hot dish, turn the blan- quette into the centre, and serve. Braised Sturgeon.—Put some bacon-fat, chopped carrots, parsnips, and slices of onion in a braising-pan. Lard a thick slice of Sturgeon, put it in the pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, pepper, and mixed spice, pour in some white wine, and braise it over a quick clear fire. When cooked, drain the fish and put it on a hot dish; strain some of the cooking-stock and mix it with some piquant sauce. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Broiled Sturgeon.—(1) Skin and cut into thin slices a piece of Sturgeon; beat them lightly, trim and put them on a dish, spread 1 table-spoonful each of finely-chopped carrots and onions over them, three or four sprigs of parsley, a Fig. 687. Broiled Sturgeon. few slices of lemon, and pepper and salt to taste. Baste the fish with a little oil, and let it marinade for a few hours. Drain the slices of Sturgeon, roll them well in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, brushing them over occasionally with a paste-brush dipped in the oil in which they were steeped. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and potato