540 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. Sugar-piping, like all other high arts, requires con- siderable practice before the piper can bring work to per- fection. Not only is a thorough appreciation of the laws of design necessary, but manual dexterity in their application. It follows then as a matter of course, that the Sugar-piper must be educated in the art, practised, and experienced. Unfortunately, every confectioner believes in his Sugar- piping accomplishments, even though his artistic ideas and practical experience are of the very shallowest. What wonder, then, that so much of our Sugar-piping, as dis- played in the cakes in pastrycooks’ shops, is utterly devoid of artistic design or good taste! Without commenting further on the failures of Sugar- pipers, it may be stated broadly that there are few persons incapable of the art when wisely and intelligently in- structed. A very little teaching will do to begin with, the piper’s skill and ability improving with practice. The first step in the work is to see that your piping Sugar (sometimes called icing, or glazing, from the French glace) is properly made; if it is too stilt' it works badly, and if too thin it cannot be worked at all. More- over it should be perfectly smooth, as the least bit of grit or unevenness will block up a bag, and cost waste, loss of the bag, and delay. The double name for the Sugar suggests that it answers two purposes, those of icing the Fig. 708. Spatula, or Spatel. cake and piping its ornamentation. It is used also for moulding dowers and figures just as plaster of Paris might be used for plaster work. Icing or piping is prepared by beating up freely a very finely-powered white Sugar with some adhesive substance, such as white of egg, dissolved gelatine, gum water, thin starch, ora solution of French glue. Concerning the Sugar it may be observed that it should be the very whitest, purest, and most dnely powdered possible. For this reason it should be of the best quality, and specially prepared for this use. It is always advisable before beating up the Sugar with the adhesive liquid to pass it through a dne sieve. Some- times the Sugar cakes a little from exposure or storage; it may then be crushed out afresh by rolling with a pastrycook’s rolling-pin. When the Sugar is ready for use put it into a bowl, and proceed to work into it the whites of eggs, or other adhesive duid, until the icing is strong enough to stand up Sugar and Sugar-Working—continued. in mountain-tops (see Fig. 707), as it is lifted by the spatula, spaddle, or “spatel,” as it is called. The spatel may be a new wooden spoon, or a piece of wood or metal, shaped like a large paper-knife (see Fig. 708). Beat the Sugar freely Fig. 709. Iron Rotary Cake-Stand. with the spatel as the adhesive fluid of whatever kind is added, until it is thoroughly incorporated and the Sugar stands well. When it is apt to sink and go back the French confectioner terms it retourne, and adds more Sugar. As to the proportions of Sugar and adhesive duid, it is only necessary to quote the words of a famous Sugar- piper, Herr T. Willy. He says: “ For my own part I can Fig. 710. Wooden Rotary Cake-Stand. say that during my thirty years’ experience I have never weighed Sugar for icing, nor have I ever seen it done by any other confectioner. Measuring the quantity of the whites, or weighing the icing Sugar, is quite unnecessary.” When mixing an icing, if it is found to be too thick, add a small quantity more white, and if too thin, add Sugar. There is no better rule to lie given, nor is there any necessity for any other if the confectioner is careful to carry this out until he has formed his icing or piping (for Fig. 711. Smoothing Icing. the same Sugar answers both purposes) to his satisfaction. Whilst beating the icing a small quantity of acetic acid should be added, for this gives the icing a. stiffness that it would not otherwise possess ; but this acid must be added