THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 487 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Soups—continued. browned ; then drain them before the fire on a sheet of kitchen- paper. Half-an-hour before serving the Soup put in the forcemeat balls. Turn the Soup when ready into a soup- tureen, and serve it while very hot. (2) Wash a grouse and a hare, and put them into a saucepan with 6qts. of cold water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer for an hour; then take out the hare and grouse, and cut all the meat from the bones. Return the bones to the Soup, and simmer for two hours longer. Cut the flesh of the grouse and hare into nice-sized pieces, and fry them in butter till well browned; then take them out of the pan, drain, and put them on a plate. Slice four onions, put them in the pan in which the meat was fried, adding more butter if necessary, and fry them till nicely browned; then put them in the Soup. With the livers of the hare and grouse, 1 teacupful of stale crumb of bread, one egg, and 1 teacupful of milk, prepare a quenelle forcemeat, first mashing the livers, then mixing with them the bread and milk, which should have been boiled together and the egg unbeaten ; add a little lemon- juice, season to taste with pepper and salt, and shape the mixture into small equal-sized balls. Fry the balls in boiling butter till nicely and equally browned. In two hours’ time strain the Soup, put it again in the saucepan, and put in the fried meat and some small pieces of carrot and turnip that have been cooked in clear water. Mix 3' table-spoonfuls of ground rice with 1 breakfast-cupful of water to a smooth paste, then mix it gradually in with the Soup, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Ad d the forcemeat balls to the Soup, and boil it gently for twenty minutes longer. When ready to serve, turn the Soup into a tureen. Mikado Soup.—Cut half a small breast of chicken, jib. of very lean veal, and Jib. of lean mutton into small equal- sized dice, put them into a saucepan on the hot stove with 2oz. of butter, and cook for five minutes, stirring with the spatula; then moisten with 2qts. of broth, adding a finely chopped medium-sized onion, a bunch of sweet heths, and the same of green pepper. After cooking for lialf-an-hour add 3 table-spoonfuls of raw rice, and cook again for half-an-hour. Remove the herbs, skim thoroughly, and pour the Soup into a hot soup-tureen. Milanese Soup (a la Milanaise).—Put a piece of raw ham into a stewpan with |lb. of chopped bacon and about H breakfast-cupfuls of haricot beans. Wash a savoy cabbage and cut it into fine shreds, and put it in with the above articles; then pour in 3qts. of broth, and set the stewpan over a clear lire. Cut up sufficient celery-roots into small pieces to fill a breakfast-cup, and after the broth has boiled for ten minutes, put them in with it. Next put in the stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of broad beans, an equal quantity of green peas and asparagus-heads, fib. of un- washed unbroken rice, two smoked Milan sausages, and one chopped tomato. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the rice is done. When the rice is soft, mix in the Soup a small plateful of finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Take out the ham and sausages, cut the sausages into small pieces, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup and vegetables over them, and serve it, sending up at the same time a plateful of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Mille Fanti Soup (Italian).—Put Ih breakfast-cupfuls of freshly-grated breadcrumb into a basin, with a little more than 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, season with grated nutmeg, then stir in four beaten eggs. Put 2qts. of clarified broth into a saucepan, and set it over the fire; when it boils, move it to the side. Put the cheese mixture into the Soup, and leave it for fifteen minutes. Stir the Soup with a whisk, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Mock Bisk.—Empty a quart tin of tomatoes into a sauce- pan, and put them on the fire to stew. Mix 1 large table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of milk to a smooth cream, stir it gradually into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling milk, then stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Mix 1 small teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with the Soups—continued. tomatoes, then pass them through a silk sieve into the milk; add a small lump of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Soup at once. Monaco Soup.—(1) Cut three or four slices of bread all one size and shape, sprinkle them well with powdered white sugar, and grill them till lightly browned. Put 1 i pints of cream or milk, or cream and milk mixed, over the fire; when it comes to the boil, take it from the fire and mix in it the beaten yolks of four eggs. Put the grilled bread into a tureen, pour the milk and eggs over it, and serve hot. (2) Put some nicely-shaped pieces of bread into a frying- pan with a little butter and a dust of pepper and salt, and fry them till well and equally browned. Drain the pieces of bread, and put them in the bottom of a tureen. Boil lqt. of either cream or milk, or both mixed, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till tliiek. Pom- the milk over the sippets, and serve while very hot. Mullagatawny Soup.—(1) Put jib. of butter into a saucepan, add three or four sliced onions, and fry them till brown. Cut two rabbits into nice-sized pieces, put them in with the onions, and fry them for a few minutes ; then pour in 3 pints of clear broth, and let it boil gently for an hour. Take the rabbit out of the saucepan, pass the liquor and onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stew- pan, pour in lqt. of broth, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry it until nicely browned. Then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and stir in gradually sufficient broth or water to make a smooth paste. Stir the curry into the Soup, add a small quantity of lemon pickle, and simmer gently for half- an-hour, stirring often to prevent the flour sticking at the bottom of the saucepan. Turn the Soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Put some beef or veal into a saucepan, and pour in 1 pint of water for every pound of meat. When boiling, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, so that the liquor may simmer gently for two hours. Brown two or three sliced onions and a clove of garlic in a little butter over a fierce fire, then drain them and put them into the Soup. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder to a smooth paste with a little water, stir it into the Soup, and boil it gently over a slow fire for a-quarter-of- an-hour. Turn the Soup into a soup-tureen, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, taking care not to let the pips go in, and serve the Soup. (3) Put one dozen small sliced onions in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown; then sprinkle over them 1 table spoonful of curry powder. Put 2qts. of veal stock into a saucepan, and when it boils put in the onions, a blade of mace, and 1 teacupful of Hour that has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little water. Let the Soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour, then strain it through a fine hail- sieve, returning it to the saucepan. Cut the flesh off the bones of a cold boiled chicken, trim it into small pieces, put it in with the Soup, add a teacupful of cream, and boil it up. Turn the Soup into a tureen, and serve while very hot. (4) Thoroughly wash a calf’s head, cut it into halves, put it into a saucepan over the fire with a cow-heel, anil pour in 4qts. of thin veal broth. When the liquor is boil- ing move the saucepan a little to die side of the fire, and let it simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Take the head and heel out of the saucepan, and separate the meat from the bones. Put the bones into the saucepan again with the broth, and fry the meat in butter till well browned. When the bones have been boiling for half-an- hour, strain the Soup into a basin, and leave it till cold, when the fat may be easily removed. Slice two large onions, dust a little flour over them, put them in the pan in which the meat was fried, with a little more butter, and fry them till nicely browned ; then stir in IA table- spoonfuls of curry powder. Stir the meat, onions, and curry powder into the soup. Let the Soup simmer for