THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 564 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special tirade. Table Service—continued. Of the dessert, Dubois remarks that “the sphere of action is greater, and in some sort optional. ... In regard to the entrees and entremets, the rules of sym- metry are against their being in odd numbers, for they are destined to be placed parallel on the table facing one another.” Plats volants (flying dishes) may be handed round without finding a place on the table at all. In the first course of a dinner a la Framyaise the dishes belonging to the same series—that is, the hors d’oeuvres, the entrees, and the removes—are symmetrically placed in pairs on each side of the table, and the large dishes at each end. The first course is always set on the table before the guests enter the room; the second course follows, also in symmetrical order; and then, after all traces of these two courses are cleared away, the third course takes their place, also arranged in exact symmetry. Concerning the dinner served a la Francaise, Urbain- Dubois, as a cook, expresses his opinion that the only objection to this method of service is that “ the luxury of the table is obtained, in some sort, at the expense of the quality. The reason thereof being that, in a complicated course, the dishes placed before the guests, especially those to be eaten last—the hot entrees, for instance— scarcely remain sufficiently hot to be enjoyed in a state of perfection, for they are handed to the guests too long after being dished up.” To remedy this, he advises a partial adoption of the service a la Russe, in which the hot dishes are not placed on the table, but are “ carved in the kitchen, dished up, and then sent into the dining-room, to be handed at once to the guests.” What is lost to the eye is thus gained in the quality. In concluding bis remarks on this subject, Dubois wrote: “ The adoption of the service it la Russe is, nowadays, a settled matter. At first it may seem that a dinner served by handing the dishes to the guests must leave the table empty, and consequently destitute of the tempting appearance one likes to find on the occasion of a good dinner. This supposition is, however, not well foimded, since the cold dishes, the cold entremets, the pieces of pastry, and the dessert can be placed symmetri- cally on the table from the beginning of the dinner, and for the most part can remain there as long as it lasts. In this way great scope is given to cooks and butlers in adorning the table, and showing their ability, particularly with regard to dishes best adapted for ornament.” This matter is thoroughly treated under Table Decoration. A very practical English writer on the subject of Table Service advocates the French system modified to what we may term service a l’Anglaise, and this he describes in the following words : “ The table being spread, and the dinner announced by the butler or principal waiting-servant, the lady of the house must quietly indicate the arrangement of her guests according to rank, age, or any local or occasional distinction, the master of the house leading out the first lady, and the mistress following last with the- most dis- tinguished gentleman, who, seated at her right hand, is her assistant in the duties of the table. “ The soup and fish are usually placed on the table together, and the covers removed at once; the soup to the lady, the fish before the master; or if two soups, and one should be turtle, that must be at the head. Soup is sent round without inquiry to everybody, to be accepted or rejected at pleasure. Sauterne, sherry, or madeira may be offered after the soup (see Wines). After turtle soup, punch is the correct liquor. The fish is carved and served round in the same way as the soup, if only one kind of fish be served, if more, the choice must be left to the guests. “ After the soup and fish are served, the removes (releves), as they are generally termed, that is the pieces i de resistance, the stronghold of the dinner, are brought j Table Service—continued. in; but before they are carved two or more entrees are usually handed round, and if champagne be introduced this is the time for it to be offered. “In carving the removes, a servant must be at the side of the carver with the plates, which he must as quickly as possible pass to the guest (having put another in the place of the one he has removed) for whom it is intended, another servant following with the vegetables or sauces. If only one servant be employed, the vegetables should be on the table, that the guests may help themselves, for nothing can be more vexatious than to have to wait for them for a-quarter-of-an-hour after you have been served with the meat. The same may be said of the sauces, so often, at a scantily-attended table, withheld until you no longer care for them.” With the foregoing practical observations this article may be closed. For information on any special subjects the reader is referred to the particular headings. TABLETS (Fr. Tablettes). —Sweetmeats made in the shape of flat squares. TAFIA.—The Spanish name for spirit or rum. TAGLIARIHT.—A kind of short-paste much used in almost every part of Italy. The following is a good receipt for its preparation and use: Sift lOoz. of flour on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, add a little salt, five or six eggs, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of lukewarm water. Crush or break the eggs with a spoon, and gradually work in the flour, leaving none on the table after the paste is mixed smooth. Make it into a lump, cover this with a basin, and let it remain for six minutes or so. Divide it in halves, roll them both out very thin and of an equal size, put them on cloths, and let them dry for about fifteen minutes. The board or table should be floured when the paste is being rolled out. Cut the paste into strips about 2in. in width, dredge over a little flour, put one strip on the top of another, and cut them transversely into shreds. When they are cut, spread them out on sheets of paper, keeping them well apart, and let them dry for about an hour. Take them all up, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two minutes; remove the saucepan from the fire, let them remain for two minutes longer, turn out on to a sieve, drain them, place in the saucepan, add (,1b. of butter in small lumps, and stir the Tagliarini well with a fork, sprinkling over a little grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, cover with tomato sauce mixed with a little rich gravy or melted glaze, and continue in this way till all are used up Serve as soon as completed. TAILLI-KATAIF.—The name of a very delicious dish prepared in Turkey, and specially favoured by the ladies of the harem. Sift lib. of flour mixed up with a little salt and sugar into a basin, and mix in four ounces of rectified butter or oil, and a small quantity of water, working well into a smooth frying paste or batter. Have ready several cornets made with stiff paper, put the paste in them, and squeeze it out about the size of vermicelli on to a well-buttered pan or sheet, taking great care not to let the strips touch one another. Put the pan or sheet on a trivet over a moderate fire and let them set; or as they are squeezed out they may fall upon the pan or sheet on the trivet over the fire, removing them when set to make room for others. Let them all get cold. Well butter a flat biscuit-mould, place the strips of paste in it, pour over clarified butter, and bake in a slack oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the mould, turn the contents out on to a dish, pour over an orange-flavoured syrup, and serve TAILS (Fr. Queues). —These are treated under the names of the different animals to which they belong. They are considered luxuries, especially the tails of birds, commonly known as the Pope’s nose, or in France as Sot-l'y-laisse.