TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 577 P Tea—continued. One other Tea of importance is Caver, this being a link j between Black and Green Teas; the colour of the leaf is very dark green, and in form it is rounded similar to Gunpowder. Tea-tasting in blending is considered a great art amongst merchants in large cities, the taster having to decide upon the following- characters, and so arrange them that without losing any particular flavour none shall so predominate as to be displeasing to the palate. In the course of their duties they have to remember that burntness either destroys the strength and flavour altogether, or adds an unpleasant flavour rendering the Tea “' smoky,” or “ smoke burnt,” this being known as “fresh burnt,” “brisk burnt,” “malty j burnt.” Do not condemn the Tea. “ Malty” means full of j rich flavour, “ Full-” applied to the infusion has the same meaning as if applied to wine. “ Chaffy ” is generally used for Bohea and other brown-leaf classes. Then Tea is “ well made ” or “ fairly made,” “ straighty,” “ curled,” “twisted,” “wiry,” “ flattish,” according to the correctness of its manufacture. Tea is said to be adulterated with leaves that do not belong to this plant (see Fig. 764), such as Chlorantlius Tea—continued. (a), Willow (b), sloe (c), hawthorn id), and other Teas or Tea substitutes that do not grow in this country, such as the leaves of the Amazon, Birch, and Bencoolen trees. But recent examination shows that these adulterations are very rarely met with now, if ever, owing in a great measure to the Adulteration Act and commercial competition. When making Tea it is of the first importance that the water should boil, but the infusion itself must not be boiled, or a larger proportion of the tannin contained in t he leaves would be extracted than would be either pleasant or desirable. For the purpose of supplying the Tea-pot an urn (see Fig. 765) fitted with a metallic cylinder inside passing through the body of the water, and containing a Fig. 766. Rustic Swing Kettle with Spirit-lamp (Adams and Son). red hot iron, is a contrivance that answers well. A very useful urn also is one fitted with a small spirit-lamp under it (see Fig. 766), these being pr-oduced in a multitude of designs. See Tea-pots. The following receipts show that Tea can be used for other purposes than as a simple beverage served with milk or cream and sugar : Essence of Tea.—Put 2oz. of Gunpowder Tea in a bottle, pour in 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature for ten days. When ready, filter the essence, and keep it in small well- stoppered bottles. Iced Tea (The Glace) a la Eran^aise.—Place in a Tea- pot 3 table-spoonfuls or lioz. of Tea, pour over 5 pints of boiling water, and turn it into a freezer. Sweeten with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, tightly cover the freezer, place it in a tub containing broken ice and rock-salt a little higher than the height of the Tea, sharply turn it by the handle in different directions lor five or six minutes, wipe the cover of the freezer all round to avoid any ice falling in, and, with the aid of a ladle, pour it into a cold pitcher or jar. Send to the table in glasses, with slices of lemon and sugar separately. Iced Tea a la Russe.—Half fill some tumblers with strong cold Tea without cream or milk, add to each the strained juice of half a lemon, sweeten well, and fill each glass with broken ice. Tea, Caramel Tablets.—Boil Hb. of sugar with 1 teacupful of water to the crack {see Sugar-boiling) ; put in with it 1 table-spoonful of strong infusion of Tea and <4 table- Fnr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c„ referred to, see under their special heads, VOL. II.