THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 471 For details respectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Soles—continued. of whipped cream, and mix them well. Put the Sole on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Soles aux Fines Herbes.—Put 1 oz. of butter with 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped shallots rubbed into it into a saute-pan, and pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry ; then put in a Sole well washed, dried, and skinned, pour over it 4 table-spoonfuls of water, gravy, or butter sauce, sprinkle in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and put it into a moderate oven for lialf-an-hour. Lay the Sole on a hot dish; put the liquor it was cooked in over the fire, and let it boil quickly for two or three minutes; then add a small quantity each of anchovy and Harvey’s sauce, pour it over the Sole, and serve immediately. Sole au Gratin.—(1) Clean a Sole, and season it on both sides udth salt and pepper. Thickly butter a baking-dish, strew in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, lay the Sole in it, strew some more Parmesan over, and then a thin layer of finely-grated and baked breadcrumbs. Bake the Sole in a quick oven, and when cooked serve it in the same dish. (2) Skin, clean, and wipe a large thick Sole, dip it in beaten egg, then cover it well with finely-grated bread- crumb that has been mixed with chopped parsley. Put Jib. of butter in a baking-dish, and melt it in the oven, then lay the Sole carefully in, and bake it for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Put 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little lemon-juice. Put the Sole on to a hot dish ; pour the butter in with the above ingredients and stir them all together over the fire for a few minutes, adding either some mushrooms, oysters, or mussels, or some of each, if desired. Pour the sauce round the fish, and serve. (3) Scrape a pair of Soles, and steep them in vinegar for an hour. Grease a baking-dish with butter, put the fish in it, laying them on their dark-skinned side, pour over them 1 wineglassful of white wine, 2 teaspoonfuls of mushroom vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and one minced shallot, not covering the fish but leaving the white side clean. Brush the Soles over -with warmed butter, sift some bread - crumbs over them, and bake for lialf-an-hour. When cooked, take the Soles out of the baking-dish, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (4) Thickly butter a gratin-dish, and strew over it some finely-chopped onion and parsley; lay the Sole on this, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop the contents of a large tin of mushrooms, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter about 2oz. in weight, a small quantity each of finely-minced onion and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. Spread the above mixture over the fish, pour 1 wineglassful of sherry over, spread a thin layer of grated breadcrumb over the top, and dust them over with salt and pepper; put a few small lumps of butter here and Fig. 610. Sole au Gratin. there over the breadcrumbs. Place the dish in a quick oven until lightly browned at the top. The Sole should be served while hot in the same dish placed on a second one (see Fig. 610). Sole a la Hollandaise.—Skin and trim a large thick Sole. Put lqt. of water in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, a few peppercorns, one onion, a small piece of mace, and a little salt, and let them boil for an hour. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and put in the Sole. Place the lid on the saucepan, and let it simmer gently for lialf-an-hour. Drain the Sole when cooked, put it on a Soles—continued. hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, cover with parsley sauce, and serve. Sole a l’ltalienne.—Clean and boil a Sole in plain salted water till cooked. Put \ table-spoonful of chopped shallots in a saucepan with a little salad oil, and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown them. Drain the oil off the shallots, put in with them 24 tea- cupfuls of white sauce, 1 teacupful of boiling milk, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Skim it well, mix with it 1 teaspoonful each of chopped mushrooms and parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and the juice of half a lemon. When well mixed, taste the sauce to see if it is seasoned enough, adding more seasoning if required. Drain, put the Sole on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve it. Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Boil a Sole till tender in salted water. Put 1 teacupful of melted butter sauce into a saucepan with 1 teacupful each of bechamel sauce and broth, and when boiling mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, season- ing with pepper and salt. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, ami serve. Soles a la Marechal.—Skin, clean, and marinade two Soles, and fry them plain without previously dipping them in egg and breadcrumbs. Let them get cold, trim them, brush over with warmed butter mixed with beaten yolks of eggs and salt, cover them with fine breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little more warmed butter over, lay them on an oiled gridiron over a clear slow fire, and broil for about twenty minutes, turning them over so as to colour both sides equally. When done, put them on a dish, pour round some rich maitre-d’hotel or any other desired sauce, and serve. Soles a la Mongolfier.—Skin and clean two good-sized Soles, marinade them thoroughly, clear them of the marinade, put them on a drainer in a fish-kettle large enough to hold them without touching one another, and mask them to about lin. in thickness with fish forcemeat seasoned with essence of mushrooms; over this place eight or nine dry crayfish-tails, so as to form rosettes or any other designs, pour round lqt. of white wine, and 8oz. of butter seasoned with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, place buttered paper over the fish, and boil very slowly, basting frequently. In about half-an-hour’s time take them out, and keep them hot. Skim the liquor, reduce it to half glaze, and mix half of it in with about h pint of boiling French sauce. Serve this in a sauceboat, and pour the remaining liquor over the fish. Fillets of whitings, contised with truffles and cooked, make a handsome garnish. The French sauce may have mushrooms and crayfish butter mixed up and cooked in it to taste. Sole a la Normande.—(1) Lay a thick-skinned Sole in the bottom of a buttered stewpan, and put in with it about twelve mussels that have been blanched in boiling water, seventeen or eighteen oysters, a chopped onion, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, some trimmings of truffles, and a few pieces of butter. Pour in 1 teacupful each of cliablis and broth, season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer till nearly done. Put into a stewpan some trimmings of veal and bacon with some chopped vegetables, pour in 4 pint of broth, mix in a lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and boil the sauce for twenty minutes. When three parts done, put the Sole in a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, mix its cooking-liquor with the sauce, and strain them both into a clean stewpan; then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the sauce over the Sole, put the mussels, oysters, and some sauted mushrooms on the top, and garnish round the sides with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, and finish cooking the contents in the oven. When cooked, serve the fish in the same dish placed on a larger flat dish covered by a folded napkin (see Fig. 611).