512 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Stewing—continued. stove, the heat can be regulated to a nicety, and the stew thoroughly cooked without running the risk of hardening by cooking too fast. Numerous receipts will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia for preparing various stews which may be cooked in a pan specially made for the purpose, or in an ordinary saucepan. See Irish Stew. STEWPANS (Fr. Casseroles).—These cooking- vessels form an essential part of the French cook’s culinary utensils (batterie de cuisine). In an English private kitchen they are usually substituted by the iron saucepan ; but in all large establishments they are growing in favour, not only on account of their valuable assistance in prepar- ing stews, their convenient shapes, and close-fitting lids preventing the escape of steam, but because, being made of copper, silvered or tinned on the inside, they add materially to the business-like appearance of the kitchen. Fig. 662. Round Stf.wpan (Still and Co.). A French cook writes of them :—“ The Stewpan adds to the ornamentation of the kitchen, giving to the walls by their diverse forms and brilliancy an appearance which denotes luxury, cleanliness, wealth, and the civilisation of those who live upon the foods prepared in them.” Fig. 663. Stewpan with Cutlet-pan Cover (Still and Co.). Stewpans are made all shapes and sizes, the more com- mon being flat and deep ovals (see Fig. 661), and round (see Fig. 662). The lids should be flat and fit closely all round. Stewpans—continued. Another kind of Stewpan is compounded with a cutlet- pan (see Fig. 663), the latter serving as a tight-fitting cover. There is no particular advantage in this arrange- ment, excepting economy. STILIiEiOOM.—A department of the house in which liquors, preserves, and such like comestibles are kept. The term is nearly obsolete, having been supplanted by the butler’s pantry. STOCK.—A liquid or jelly containing the juices and soluble parts of meat and certain vegetables extracted by cooking, for the purpose of making soups, gravies, or sauces. Such a broad definition leaves much to the dis- cretion of the cook, and it is not therefore surprising to know that Stock is as varied as the purposes for which it is used, and even more so, every cook having a fancy in the preparation of Stock, and many being compelled to use whatever they may have at hand. Bones and trimmings of meat make good Stock, and as these require a prolonged cooking, they should be set near the fire after once boil- ing up, in a stockpot, the better kind being fitted with a tap (see Fig. 664) so that any quantity can be drawn off at a time free from the fat which naturally floats on the Fig. 664. Stockpot. top. When the Stock is cold a cake of fat will be found to have formed on the top, which can be removed by pass- ing a knife round between it and the side of the stock- pot. It can then be lifted off and cleared carefully of the jelly, and the jelly wiped over with a cloth wrung out in hot water. If the Stock be wanted before it has time to cool, and the stockpot has no tap, then most of the fat can be removed by straining the Stock several times through a fine napkin dipped repeatedly in cold water. In the following receipts full particulars will be found: Cheap Stock.—After a good-sized piece of mutton or beef lias been boiled, the liquor can be used for making a very good Stock; but after salted beef has been boiled in it, it should be first tasted, for if too salt it cannot be used. Put any bones, trimmings of meat, poultry, or game that may be available, into a stockpot, with a few peeled vegetables composed of onions, carrots, turnips, and celery, the onions having two or three cloves stuck in them and the celery cut into small lengths; also add a bunch of sweet herbs with' a few sprigs of parsley mixed with them, two blades of mace, five or six peppercorns, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour in the liquor, put the lid on the stockpot, stand it at the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for six or seven hours. Skim the Stock constantly; it should be kept quite clear from any scum. When suffi- ciently stewed, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and keep it in the larder for use. Clear Stock a la Framjaise.—Cut up 61b. of beef, put it in a st. A pot with some crushed bones and a few peeled carrots, turnips, parsnips, and one broiled onion, a bunch of parsley and a laurel leaf, two cloves, a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in 3qts. of water, place the stockpot over the fire until the liquor boils, then skim it well; move it to the side, and let it simmer