599 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Tomatoes—continued. Tomatoes—continued. cook for two minutes longer or until it comes to a boil, then place in a bowl to cool. Stuff the emptied Toma- toes with the preparation, close down the covers, lay them gently on a tin plate or dish, cover with buttered paper, cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes, and serve. Stuffed tomatoes are served as a garnishing in several ways. (4) Cut off a slice from the stalk end of half-a-dozen or so large Tomatoes, and scoop out the seeds. Have ready a forcemeat made of chopped ham, mushrooms, and shallots, seasoned with minced parsley and sweet herbs, and cayenne and salt to taste. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, add the forcemeat, and cook gently until all the ingredients are cooked. Let the forcemeat cool, and mix in breadcrumbs and well-beaten yolks of eggs. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, dredge over a few bread- crumbs, pour over a little warm butter, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake to a good brown. Take them out when done, and serve hot. (5) Cut off a thin slice from the stalk end of six large, smooth Tomatoes, and scoop out the seeds and pulp. Sepa- rate the seeds from the pulp, and mix the latter with buttered cracker-crumbs, sugar, onion-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, place them close together on a baking-sheet, put the sheet in a moderate oven, and let the Tomatoes remain until the crumbs are brown. Take them out carefully, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. A little finely- chopped meat may be mixed with the crumbs if desired. (b) Scald the Tomatoes, peel them, cut them into halves, and remove the seeds. Rub a baking-dish over with shallot, and butter it thickly. Finely grate some stale bread, and mix with it half its quantity of minced ham. Season to taste with chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and salt anil pepper. Stuff the halves of Tomatoes with the mixture, and lay them on the dish; put a small lump of butter on each, and bake them for a-quarter-of-an-liour. Cut as many round pieces of bread as there are halves of Tomatoes, and fry them a golden brown in butter or toast, and butter them afterwards. Put the rounds of fried bread on a hot dish, with half a Tomato on each, and serve. (7) Empty the required number of Tomatoes, making as small an incision as possible in them. Heat two or three eggs up with some highly-seasoned Tomato sauce, and stir in sufficient grated crumb of stale bread to make it con- sistent. Stuff the Tomatoes with this mixture, put them in a baking-dish with a few small bits of butter, and bake them. W hen cooked, place the Tomatoes on a hot dish, and serve. (8) Cut a thin slice ofi the top of each Tomato, and with an egg-spoon scoop out all the seeds. For every five Tomatoes allow live shallots and Jib. of mushrooms. Mince the shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, anil fry them ; when they are cooked, cut the mushrooms into small pieces, and put them in with 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, the juice of the Tomatoes, which should be obtained by squeezing the pulp and pips, and a sufficient quantity of breadcrumbs to make a thick paste, and stir them well over the fire; stuff the Tomatoes with the mixture, and replace the slices that were cut off the top. Put them side by side in a baking-dish, pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and bake them for half-an- hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, place the Toma- toes on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. This is a very tasty way of cooking Tomatoes. (9) Soak 1 teacupful of tapioca in water for several hours, then boil it until quite dissolved; mix with it a small quantity of fresh butter, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Cut the Tomatoes into halves, scoop out the pips anil watei\ substance, and dust them over Avith salt and pepper. Fill each half of Tomato Avith the tapioca, strew some grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs over the top, lay them side by side in a buttered baking-dish, and bake them in a moderate oven for tAventy mfnutes! Serve Avliile hot. (10) Cut the Tomatoes in halves, remove their seeds, put them on a dish that Avill bear the heat of the oven, and pour round them a feAV table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Mix Avith some breadcrumbs half their quantity of finely-chopped ham, and season them moderately Avith salt and pepper, chopped parsley, basil, marjoram, thyme, and a small quan- tity of garlic. StreAV this mixture ewer the Tomatoes so as almost to cover them, pour 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of oil o\rer the top, and bake them for a feAV minutes in a brisk oven. Serve the Tomatoes on the same dish, and Avhile very hot. (11) Procure the Tomatoes as nearly as possible of one size, remove the stalks, and scoop out the pulp; then turn the Tomatoes on a sieve, and let them drain. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, which place over the fire until melted, then put in a finely-chopped onion, and fry it for a feAV minutes. Add the pulp of the Tomatoes to the onion, a: so a very small quantity of finely-chopped garlic, and season to taste AA’itli salt and pepper. Stir this mixture o\rer the fire until reduced to a stiff paste, then mix Avith it one-third of the quantity of grated breadcrumbs. Stuff the Tomatoes Avith the mixture, arrange them side by side on a baking-dish, the cut side upAvards, streAV sifted raspings over them, put a feAV small lumps of butter on the top, and bake them in a brisk oAren. The Tomatoes should be basted occasionally with the butter in the tin. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. (12) Select some Tomatoes of an equal size, cut a round out of the stalk end, then scoop out the seeds and juice Avith a spoon, but leave the pulp ; place them on a sieve, the open part doAvmvards, and let them drain. Chop some lean, tender beef with half its quantity of suet, using sufficient to stuff the Tomatoes with. When quite fine, season the chopped meat and suet with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it Avitli the beaten Avhite of egg. Stuff the Tomatoes Avith the mixture, arrange them on a baking-tin, the open part upAvards, put a feAV lumps of butter over them, and Fig. 80u. Stuffed Tomatoes. bake, basting them occasionally Avith the butter in the tin. When cooked, pile them on a hot dish, pour the butter out of the baking-pan ewer them, garnish Avith fried parsley (see Fig. 800), and serve. Tomatoes a l'Anclalouse.—Iloil together in a saucepan 1 pint of Tomato sauce and 3 pints of consommd. Add b table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of tapioca, stirring it Avell all the time. Cook for fifteen minutes, add tAvelve chicken quenelles, then serve. Tomatoes a la Bock. -Wipe and peel eight fine, fresh Tomatoes, cut each one into six equal-sized pieces, and place them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter; season Avith 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg. Cover the pan, and place it on the hot stove to cook the contents for fifteen minutes. Take off the fire, pour the Tomatoes into a deep hot vegetable-dish, and send them to table A'ery hot. Tomatoes au Gratin.—(1) Cut some ripe Tomatoes in halves, put them in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle Avith plenty of sifted breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, stick bits of butter o\rer the top, and bake them till the to]is are slightly broAvned. (2) Pour some hot Avater OA^er the required number of Tomatoes, then take them out and peel them, divide them in halves, and pick out the seeds. Mix Avith some grated breadcrumbs half their quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms, a small quantity of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub a baking-disli over Avith