654 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Turkeys—continued. Remove the paper when the bird is nearly done, stand it nearer the fire, dredge it over with flour, and haste with butter till nicely browned. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of rich brown gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts.—(1) Singe, draw, and truss the bird as for roasting. Peel fifty chestnuts, blanch them in boiling water till the inner skin can be easily removed, and boil them till soft; then drain and chop them very finely. Empty two marrowbones, and cut the marrow into small pieces ; mix these and the chestnuts together, season the mixture with a little salt, and stuff the Turkey with it. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, fix the bird on a spit or roasting-jack, and roast it in front of a clear brisk fire, basting it continually with butter. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the Turkey, move it nearer to the fire, dredge it over with flour and a little salt, and baste it with butter till frothed and browned. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, pour a little chest- nut sauce over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy and a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (2) Singe, draw, wash well, and dry a fine tender Turkey weighing from 5lb. to 61b., fill the inside with chestnut stuffing (see No. 1), and truss the bird from the wing to the leg, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt well sprinkled over. Cover the breast with thin slices of larding-pork, and put it to roast in a roasting-pan in a moderate oven for one-hour-and- a-half, basting it occasionally with its own gravy. Take the Turkey out of the oven, untruss it, and dress it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, add 1 gill of broth or consomme, let it just come to the boil, strain it into a bowl, and send to the table in a sauceboat. Should the stuffing be objected to, it may be omitted, and the Turkey will then only require an hour-and-a-quarter to cook. (3) Remove all the sinewy parts from lOoz. of fillet of veal; ! chop the meat with lib. of fat bacon, season it with salt and spices, put it in a mortar, and pound it well, pouring in gradually at the same time 1 teacupful of broth. Turn the pounded mixture into a basin, and mix with it about three dozen roasted and peeled chestnuts. Singe and draw the Turkey, cut off the neck, leaving as much of the skin of the crop as possible, truss it, stuff it with the pounded meat and chestnuts, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before the bird is done, remove the paper, baste the bird well, dredging a little flour and salt over it, and brown it. When cooked, remove the strings and put the Turkey on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over the bird, and serve. Roasted Turkey Stuffed with Oysters (American).—Pre- pare the bird as for roasting. Crumble sufficient stale bread to make 4 breakfast-cupfuls, and mix with it an equal quantity of crushed oyster cakes. Warm 41b. of butter, and stir it in with the breadcrumbs, with the liquor from four dozen oysters and two beaten eggs. Put in the four dozen oysters, season the mixture to taste, then stuff the Turkey with it, putting it in loosely, so that the crumbs may absorb the gravy. Cover the bird with a thickly-buttered sheet of paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it well with butter. Ten minutes before removing the bird from the fire, take off the paper, dust it over with flour and salt, and baste it well with butter, to colour it. When cooked, put the Turkey on a hot dish. Prepare some brown sauce with the contents of the dripping pan, pour a small quantity of it round the bird, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Scalloped Turkey.—(1) Cut off all the meat from a boiled or roasted Turkey, and mince it very fine. Crack and break the carcase, put it into a saucepan, together with the fat, skin, and gristle, cover it with cold water, and let it simmer to make the gravy. Grease the inside of a pie- dish, cover the bottom with a layer of breadcrumbs, over this put a layer of minced Turkey, on this lay bits of butter and any bits of stuffing, then a layer of breadcrumbs, and so on till all the minced Turkey is used up. When Turkeys—continued. all the goodness is extracted from the bones, strain the gravy, put it back into the saucepan, and thicken with browned flour. Pour some of this gravy into the pie-dish, and with the remainder of it moisten sufficient fine bread- crumbs to form a smooth paste over the top ; season with a little salt and pepper, and spread the moistened bread- crumbs evenly and rather thickly over the scallop. Lay a dish over all, and bake for half-an-hour; then take the cover off, and when browned, serve. (2) Chop fine about 21b. of cold roasted Turkey, and have ready an equal quantity of forcemeat used for stuffing. Put a layer of the cold meat at the bottom of a pie- dish, cover with the forcemeat, pour over a little rich gravy, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Cover with buttered breadcrumbs, place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake until the surface is brown. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Steamed Turkey.—(1) Rub a boned Turkey with 2 table- spoonfuls of salt and a little pepper, applying it inside only; fill it up with forcemeat, and sew up the back and neck, and lastly the vent. Truss it as if it were entire, and with a strong piece of cotton cloth fasten the bird in firmly, drawing it very tightly at the legs, as this is the broadest part. Put the bird in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it for three hours. Take it out, put it on a baking-sheet, which should be well buttered, baste it well with butter, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and flour, put it in the oven, and bake for an hour, basting it frequently with its own liquor and a little stock. Take it out, let it get cold, remove the binding, put it on a dish, and serve. (2) Cut the meat off the remains of a cold roasted Turkey into moderate-sized pieces. Put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan with some cold water, season with pepper and salt, and boil them, thus making the stock. Skim the liquor, strain it into another saucepan, put in the pieces of Turkey, with two or three dozen oysters, some button onions, a few chillies, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let the stew simmer gently by the side of the fire for an hour. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, and truss the Turkey, rub the inside with butter, salt, and pepper, fill it with oysters, and sew up the openings. Put the bird on a dish, set it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, put the lid on, and steam it for two-hours and-a-half. When cooked, take it out, and put it on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy in the dish with flour and butter, then mix in some oyster sauce, and boil if up. Mix a small quantity of boiled cream with the sauce to whiten it, then pour it over the Turkey, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (4) Put f ile bird into a stewpan with some turnips, carrots, onions, and celery, all nicely prepared and cut up small; add a bunch of sweet herbs and a seasoning of salt and pepper, barely cover with water, and let it stew as slowly as possible, keeping the stewpan closely covered. Let it stew till tender, and serve hot. Stewed Turkey with Celery.—Clean and truss a hen Turkey as for boiling, stuff’ it with veal forcemeat, put it into a large saucepan with plenty of hot water, ami boil it gently until tender. When the Turkey is done, take half of the cooking liquor and put it into another saucepan with four well-washed heads of celery, and stew them till tender. Take the celery out of the liquor, put in the Turkey, breast downwards, and boil it gently for twenty minutes; then drain it, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot near the fire. Work loz. of butter with 1 table-spoon- ful of flour, put it in the celery liquor, stir it over the fire till boiling, then put in the celery cut up into short lengths, and warm it again. Pour the sauce and celery over the Turkey, and serve. Stewed Turkey with Nouilles.—Singe, draw, and truss a Turkey with the legs turned in. Melt some bacon-fat in a stewpan, put in the bird, cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, and fry it over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Pour in with the Turkey broth to three parts its height, add two or three small onions, a