528 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sturgeon—continued. croquettes (see Fig. 687), and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Cut about lib. or more of Sturgeon into slices lin. thick, season them with salt and pepper, and rub them well over with salad-oil. Broil the fish over a clear fire, turning it when browned on one side to brown the other. Mix about loz. of butter and a little anchovy essence with some boiling piquant sauce, and stir it till the butter has dissolved. But the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Take oft' the skin of a Sturgeon, and cut from the tail-piece slices Jin. thick ; rub them with salt, and broil over a hot fire. Butter them and sprinkle over cayenne pepper; or they may be dipped in beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumbs, wrapped up in buttered papers, and broiled over a clear fire. Send to table without the papers; any fish sauce may accompany it. Croquettes of Sturgeon.—Cut some cold remains of Stur- geon into small pieces; mix some mushrooms cut in the same way with them, put them in a saucepan with some stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce, and stir over the fire till boiling; add a lump of butter, and season with salt. Turn the above mixture on to a dish, and when cold shape it into croquettes; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, put them in a circle on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve. Fricandeau of Sturgeon.—Cut the desired quantity of Sturgeon into slices about 4in. in thickness, lard them with fillets of bacon, and dredge them well with flour. Put some scraped bacon-fat into a flat stewpan, and when it has melted put in the fish, the larded side downwards, and fry them slightly. Put some chopped mushrooms in a tin baking-dish with some essence of ham, lay the slices of Sturgeon on this, but with the larded side upwards this time, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven. In an hour’s time arrange the slices of Sturgeon on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of any kind of sauce preferred. Fricandeau of Sturgeon with Olives.—Skin a slice of Sturgeon, beat it slightly, and lard it with bacon. Blanch and drain it, season with salt and pepper, and place it in a flat stewpan. Put in with the fish some vegetables and trimmings of ham, pour in broth to the height of the fish, and boil it till the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity. Pour a little white wine in with the fish, put a sheet of white paper over the top, and place the stewpan in a moderate oven; baste the fish continually while baking. When cooked, drain the fish, put it on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, mix a little Madeira with it, skim off the fat, and boil it. Thicken the sauce with a piece of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and add about forty Provence olives that have been freed of stones and blanched, but not boiled. Pour the fricandeau over the fish, and serve. Fricassee of Sturgeon.—Trim and cut into small equal- sized round pieces some cold roasted Sturgeon; put them in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of one lemon, and some sauce tournee. When hot, turn the above mixture into a casserole of rice that has been put on a dish, and serve. Fried Sturgeon.—Wash and dry three thin slices of Sturgeon and dust them well with flour. Mix a little chopped thyme and parsley with some finely-grated breadcrumb, and season with salt and pepper. Brash the fish over with beaten egg, cover them well with the breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Wlien cooked and nicely browned, drain the slices of Sturgeon, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Mayonnaise of Sturgeon.—Cut a thick slice out of the biggest part of a large Sturgeon, boil it in fish broth till cooked, then take it off the fire and let it cool in its own cooking-liquor. Drain the slice of Sturgeon, skin it, and Sturgeon—continued. brash it oyer with half-set aspic jelly. Pour a thick layer of aspic on a round dish, and when it has set put the fish on it. Cut some hard-boiled eggs lengthwise into Fig. 688. Mayonnaise of Sturgeon. halves, and stand them upright round the Sturgeon, the yolks showing outwards. Garnish between with sprigs of watercress (see Fig. 688). Serve the fish with a sauceboat- ful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs. Quenelles of Sturgeon.—Pick the flesh off the bones of some Sturgeon, chop it, then pound it in a mortar with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs and a lump of butter. Season the mixture with some mixed spice, chopped mixed herbs that have been warmed in butter, and a little salt. Stir in sufficient beaten egg to bind it, then shape it into quenelles with table-spoons. Poach the quenelles in boiling water, and serve them. Roasted Sturgeon.—(1) Clean and wash a piece of Sturgeon carefully. Fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it occasionally with a lump of butter that should be placed in a dish underneath. When cooked, put the Sturgeon on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauce- boatful of any piquant sauce or any other kind preferred. (2) Skin and bone the tail-end of a Sturgeon, wash it well, and fill the hollow left by the bone with a highly-seasoned veal stuffing. Wrap the fish in a thick sheet of buttered paper, and fasten it round to look like a fillet of veal; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, bast- ing it frequently with butter. Put J pint of rich beef gravy in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and a little lemon juice, and stir it over the fire till hot. When cooked, remove the paper from the Sturgeon, put it on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. (3) Cut a piece lOin. long from the middle of a Sturgeon, season it with salt and pepper, and tie some thin rashers of bacon round it. Butter a large sheet of stiff paper, cover it with thin slices of onions and carrots, also some thyme, parsley, and a bay-leaf; put the fish on the paper, roll it round, fasten it with and fix it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. When cooked, take the fish off the spit, remove the paper, put it on a hot dish, and brush over with melted glaze. Pour some hot matelote sauce over the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Stewed Sturgeon.—(1) Place some slices of Sturgeon in a baking-dish, season them with salt and pepper, and put in two or three small lumps of butter ; bake the fish for a-quarter-of-an-hour, turning it at the end of seven minutes. Take the fish out of the baking-dish, mix a little flour with the butter, season with chopped shallots, chives, and parsley, then turn it into a stewpan; pour in 1 pint of red wine and boil for fifteen minutes. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the fish to warm again, but do not boil it. Turn the fish and cook- ing-liquor on to a hot dish, sprinkle some capers over it, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Cut a Sturgeon measuring 4ft. or 5ft. into halves, clean, wash, and drain the head half, tie up the jaws, put it into a saucepan with sufficient fish broth to nearly cover, and stew until done. Take it out carefully, remove the skin, glaze it, and put it on a dish. In the meantime, prepare a matelote of eels with claret, add 1 pint of boiled mushrooms and their liquor and a very small quantity of anchovy butter; when ready, pour a part of it round the fish and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. The remain-