531 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sterlets—continued. carefully, mask it with a fish glaze mixed up with a little crayfish butter, place it on a napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley and crayfish-tails, ornament with decorated attehttes, and serve cold with a white mayonnaise sauce. Sterlet Pie.—Clean the Sterlet, cut it across into pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, £ pint of white wine, a few trimmings of truffles, and a hunch of parsley and sweet herbs. Boil the fish for a few minutes, then put the lid on the stewpan; move it to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for ten minutes. When cooked, take out the pieces of fish, cut them in halves lengthwise, and remove all the bones and hard parts. Put the pieces of fish in a deep dish, with ljlb. of peeled raw truffles cut into quarters, a little mixed spice, chopped parsley, and salt, and a small quantity of sherry; put a plate over the dish, and let the fish soak for an hour. Prepare some forcemeat with an equal quantity of eel- and pike-flesh, the fillets of six anchovies, 11b. of fresh fat bacon, two raw truffles, and 1 teacupful of crumb of bread soaked in milk. Chop, pound, and mix the above ingredients together, season them well with salt and spices, and stir them into the strained cooking-liquor of the fish. Butter the interior of a pie-mould, and line it with short-paste, cover it with a layer of the forcemeat, then fill the hollow with the pieces of fish, truffles, and some forcemeat, putting them in in alternate layers. Cover the pie with a flat of short-paste, and make an incision in the top. Bake the pie; when it is cooked take it out of the oven, and leave it to cool for half-an-hour. Melt 1 teacupful of aspic jelly with an infusion of sweet herbs and half its quantity of sherry, then pour it in at the top of the pie, and serve when cold. Sterlet in Russian Style (Cucha).—(1) This dish is served in Russia on State occasions, and is prepared by making a highly-seasoned fish or chicken broth, flavoured with nutmeg, and clarified with white of egg before straining. Into tiiis put a Sterlet cut up into suitable pieces, pour in a little cold water, and cook over a moderate fire until the fish is done, taking care to remove any scum that may rise. Turn the whole into a pan in which it is to be stewed, having placed slices of lemon without pips or peel at the bottom; pour in champagne to taste, boil up once more, and serve. Chopped parsley and fennel may be added to flavour when the champagne is poured in. Caviare may be used in clarifying instead of the white of egg. In large households silver • saucepans are sometimes used for the finishing of the cooking. (2) When ready cleaned lay the fish in a fish-kettle, pour in enough white wine to cover, boil it until tender, then leave it in its cooking liquor until cold. Afterwards drain it well. Spread a folded napkin .or an ornamental dish-paper over a long oval dish, lay the fish on it, being- careful not to break it, garnish with a string of chopped aspic jelly and jelly croutons, and serve. Sterlet Stewed in Chablis Wine.—(1) Cut the Sterlet slantingly across into eight or nine pieces, and put them in a buttered stewpan; put in a few parsley-roots cut into thin slices, a bay-leaf, an unpeeled clove of garlic, the juice of two lemons, a little salt, and sufficient chablis wine to moisten to three-parts the height of the fish. Place the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents quickly till the fish is tender and the wine reduced to half it's original quantity. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish and set it near the fire. Stir in a few table-spoonfuls of melted glaze with the cooking liquor, boil it, then poui- in 1 teacupful of brown sauce and the juice of a lemon. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick. The fish should be put on the dish in its original shape; garnish with groups of prepared truffles, olives, mushrooms, and quenelles, pour a little of the sauce over it, put the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Clean and rinse a fish, and cut it slantingly into slices about 2in. thick. Melt loz. of butter iu a stewpan, putin a few slices of parsley-roots, a bay-leaf, an unpeeled clove of garlic, and the pieces of fish; pour in chablis wine to three-parts the height of the fish, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, season with salt, put the lid on the Sterlets—continued. stewpan, and boil the fish over a brisk fire. When the fish is cooked, drain, ami put it back in its original shape on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, which should be reduced to half its former quantity, mix 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze with it, and boil it up again. Put loz. of butter and I table-spoonful of flour in a frying- pan, and stir over the fire till brown; then mix it in the sauce together with the juice of a lemon, and strain the whole through a fine hair sieve. Garnish the fish with truffles, olives, quenelles, and mushrooms, previously prepared as for garnish, arranging them in groups along the sides; pour part of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Stewed Sterlet.—Clean a Sterlet, put it in a fish-kettle, cover with broth, and boil it gently till cooked, putting red hot coals on the lid of the kettle. When the fish is cooked put it on a hot dish. Mix a small quantity of the cooking-liquor with some Italian sauce, add 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, pour it over the fish, anil serve. SUBUREK.—This is the name of a famous Turkish dish, of which there are several varieties prepared by Turkish cooks. The following receipt is considered to be one of the best: Put 1 teaspoonful of salt in lib. of flour and mix it to a thick paste with a small quantity of .water. Divide the paste into three equal parts, two of which roll out thinly. Beat up eight eggs and work them in with the third portion of paste, roll it out very thinly, cut it into eight strips, .and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water. Spread one of the remaining pieces of paste in a rather shallow pie-dish, and when the above strips are three-parts cooked lay four of them on the paste. Season well some finely-minced cold mutton or beef, mix a small quantity of chopped parsley with it, and brown it in butter. Spread the mince in the dish, lay the other four strips of boiled paste over it, and cover with the remaining portion of uncooked paste. Put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan and brown it, then pour it over the paste and bake in a good oven. Serve hot. SUCCOTASH.—This word is derived from the Narra- gansett Indian m sickquatash—signifying corn boiled whole. Although this dish is taken from the native Indian, it is none the worse for that, but forms a very favourite dish with beans. The following receipts are supplied by an American chef : (1) Place six medium-sized, freshly-cooked, and scraped ears of green corn (a tin of canned corn will answer the purpose) in a saucepan with J pint of Lima beans, adding about loz. of butter, 1 pinch of salt, \ pinch of pepper, J pinch of grated nutmeg, and | pint of milk. Heat it well for five minutes, add 2 table-spoonfuls of hot bechamel sauce, stir thoroughly, and serve. (2) LTse lqt. each of corn cut from the col) and shelled Lima beans; put them in a saucepan over the fire in just sufficient boiling water to cover them, add 2 teaspoonfuls of salt and h salt-spoonful of pepper, and boil them for about half an hour or until tire beans are tender. In the mean- time rub to a smooth paste 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table spoonful of flour, and when the beans are nearly done stir the paste into the mixture; season to taste, and finish cooking. The flour may be omitted if a thick sauce is not desired. Sometimes a piece of salted pork is boiled with the corn and beans, and sent on a dish to the table. In place of the flour or salted pork, two eggs beaten smoothly with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk may be added to the mixture just before serving, lint it must not be allowed to boil again, or the eggs will harden. (3) Use dried samp and Lima beans for this dish. Soak the samp and beans overnight in cold water, in separate bowls. In the morning boil the samp, put an equal quan- tity of the beans over the fire in fresh cold water in another saucepan, and let them boil gently until they are tender, but not at all broken. Place the saucepan con- taining them where they will keep hot without boiling until the samp is done. When both samp and beans 2 M For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. o-