THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 509 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc,, referred, to. see under their special heads. Squabs -+conti nued. good forcemeat or stuffing. Well-seasoned sausage-meat will be good for this purpose. Fold the skin over the forcemeat, secure it in place with a needle and thread, and round the bikls in good shape. Roast the boned Squabs, and serve them either with aspic jelly or a salad, after removing the string used to confine the forcemeat. Orange salad is good with cold birds. The Squabs may be served hot, or they may be drawn carefully and either roasted with or without stuffing, and served with a brown gravy. Boasted Squabs.—Singe, draw, cut off the necks, wipe neatly, and truss six fine, small Squabs ; put them in a roasting-pan with A pinch of salt, evenly distributed, and a very little butter spread over. Put the pan into a brisk oven to cook the birds for twelve minutes; then remove from the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish on which have been previously placed six small canapes of game, one on each canape. Neatly decorate the dish with fresh watercress. Skim the fat from the gravy, and add to it 1 gill of white broth; let it just come to a boil, strain it into a sauce-bowl, and serve. Squabs a, l’Americaine.—Singe, draw, and truss six fine fat Squabs, stuff them with American forcemeat, and place them in a roasting pan with 1 pinch of salt, evenly distri- buted, and Aoz. of butter well spread over. Place them in a hot oven, and roast for eighteen minutes. Take out of the oven, untruss, and dress them on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy, add to it 1 gill of rich broth, let it come to the boil, and strain into a sauce-bowl. Decorate the dish with a little fresh watercress; arrange a slice of broiled bacon over each bird, and serve. Squabs a la Chipolata.—Prepare and roast six Squabs, and serve them with 1 pint of hot chipolata garnishing on a hot dish, with the Squabs arranged over. Squabs a la Crapaudine.—Singe, draw, and split six Squabs through the back without entirely dividing them; break the bones of the legs and wings, flatten them well, and lay them on a dish; season with ] pinch of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of oil; roll them in well, then dip them in breadcrumbs, and broil them slowly for seven minutes on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with A pint of hot Robert sauce, to which add three chopped mushrooms. Serve the sauce on a dish with the Squabs on top. Squab Ballotines.—Singe, draw, and bone six tender Squabs, stuff them with a good chicken forcemeat, and leave on one leg to decorate later with a truffle. Form each Squab to a round shape, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, anil cover with a piece of buttered paper. Put the pan in the Fig. 653. Squab Ballotines. oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, serve with A pint of hot Italian sauce, the Squabs laid on top, with a paper ruffle fastened on to each leg; garnish with watercress. See Fig. 653. Squab Pie.—Make a rich paste, and line a deep earthen ware dish with it. Cut lib. of tender breast of veal into slices Ain. thick, after first taking out the bones, and put a layer of the meat round the sides and on the bottom of the dish. Carefully pluck six Squabs, cut off the heads and feet, singe and draw them, and wipe them with a wet towel; chop the livers and gizzards finely together with an equal weight of fat salted pork or bacon, add to them then an equal measure of fine breadcrumbs, one egg, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, and use this forcemeat to stuff the Squabs; lay them in the disli prepared as above, and cover with some slices of veal. Put over the fire in a frying- the Indian ctsq, plural asquash. The following are favourite American receipts for their preparation for the table, and apply to any Squash, unless the kind is specified; Baked Squash.—If the vegetable be very young, it may be washed and cooked without peeling or removing the seeds, but if it bo ripe, both seeds and peel must be taken away, and the Squash cut into |in. slices. Put it into a baking- dish, place it in a moderate oven, and bake until it is tender enough to be easily broken with a fork; the length of time required depending upon the maturity of the vege- table. A large, rip>e Squash will bake in about an hour. When the Squash is cooked, put with it 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and I teaspoon- ful of pepper; mash the Squash and mix the seasoning well up in it, return it to the oven to heat, and then serve Aery hot. Squash may be fried like egg-plant fruit. Boiled Squash.—(1) Peel a large winter or summer Squash, or tAvo small ones, cut them into pieces about lin. square, put them over the fire in a saucepan of boiling salted Avater, and boil them until they are tender. In the mean- time for 3 pints of Squash mix together in a stewpan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are broAvn; gradually add 1 pint of boiling Avater and a high seasoning of salt and pepper, and Avhen it boils set it aside until the Squash is done. After the Squash is drained from the Avater in Avliich it Avas boiled, put it into the hot brown sauce, and serve it at once; or simply mash the boiled Squash through a colander, beat it together Avith salt, pepper, and butter, and serve. Squabs—continued. pan 1 dessert spoonful each of flour and butter, stir them until they are broAvn, then mix Avith them 1A breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water and a seasoning of salt and pepper. When this sauce boils pour it into the pie, and cover Avith an upper crust of paste, Avetting the edges to make them adhere; cut several slits in the upper crust, and brush it over Avith beaten egg. Bake the pie for tAvo hours in a moderate oven, taking care that it does not burn; if the crust broAvns too quickly, cover it Avith buttered paper, and moderate the heat of the oven. Serve the pie hot or cold as desired. SQUASH.—A fancy name given to a class of American drinks which will be found described under special head- ings. The name mostly adopted for the same drink is Smash. SQUASHES. —In America the fruit of certain plants of the gourd tribe (Cucurbita) are known by this name. They are of various kinds, usually distinguished as Winter and Summer Squashes, and these again being made up of numerous varieties, such as the Crook-neck Squash (see Fig. 654), Hulbard Squash (see Fig. 655), Barbary or China Squash, Cymlings, and some others of which the distinctions are not clear. The word itself is taken from Fig. 654. Crook-neck Squash. Fig. 655. Hulbard Squash.