638 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Turbot—continued. (2) Remove the hone from a large Turbot, taking care to have the fish anil skin whole, and cutting off the bone close to the head. Sprinkle the fish with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper; line it to .about an inch in thickness with highly-seasoned fish forcemeat, tie the fish round to its original shape, put it on a well-buttered drainer, baste it with some warm butter, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour over 1 pint of white wine, bring the liquor to the boil, cover the kettle, set it in a slack oven, and cook for about an hour and a half, basting it frequently with its own liquor. Pull the kettle to the oven door, brush the fish over with glaze, cook for fifteen minutes longer, and place it on a dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a little Italian sauce and butter to it, reduce to a glaze, pour it over the fish, and serve with any fish sauce desired. The fish may be braised in the same way should it not be convenient to bake it. Baked Turbot.—(1) Clean and wash a small Turbot, put it on a dish, pour over a little hot butter, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, powdered mace, salt, and pepper, and let it remain for an hour. Lift the fish up carefully, and place it in a baking-dish; brush it over with egg, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, put it in the oven, and bake. Take it out when done, slip it on a dish, and serve with any fish sauce desired. (2) Clean and wash a small Turbot, and chop off the head and fins. Butter a baking-dish, sprinkle the bottom with half a grated nutmeg, a little chopped parsley, and salt and pepper; pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine, put in the fish, cover with an equal quantity of the above ingredients, put a few lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake the Turbot until done. Take out the fish, put it on a dish, and keep hot in the oven. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, add a little flour thickening, boil up once, stir in a small quantity of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom or other ketchup, pour the whole over the Turbot, and serve; or it may be served separately in a sauceboat. Baked Turbot with Wine Sauce.—(1) Clean and wash a Turbot, thickly butter a shallow baking-dish, place some slices of onion at the bottom, and lay the fish on them; put in a few sliced mushrooms, two bay leaves, strew over a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, two or three cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Moisten almost to height with equal quantities of white wine and water, and cover the fish with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake the fish for about an-hour-and-a half, basting it occasionally with the cook- ing-liquor. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, strain the liquor into a saucepan, and thicken it with a brown roux; season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in the beate'n yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve without delay. (2) Thickly butter a baking-dish, and put at the bottom a few slices of onions and mushrooms; lay the Turbot on them, strew over some finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and put in a couple of bay-leaves; also put in a few cloves; moisten to height with white wine and water in equal quantities, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful <:f flour into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until nicely browned, then strain in a sufficient quantity of the cooking- liquor to make the sauce. Season it with a small quantity of nutmeg, and continue stirring until boiling. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of a small lemon, strain them, then stir them in with the sauce, first moving the saucepan to the side of the fire. Place the fish carefully on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Turbot.—(1) Cut off' a piece weighing about 31b. from a Turbot, trim off the fins, put it into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Take it out, drain, put it-in a fish-kettle, cover with salt to about Jin. in thickness, pour over more than sufficient water to cover, boil up once, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, skim well, and simmer gently for about twenty - Turbot—continued. five minutes. Take it out, drain, again put it with the dark side downwards on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with fried parsley for garnish. Melted butter, shrimp, lobster, or Dutch sauce may be served in a sauceboat. (2) Clean and wash a Turbot, chop off the fins, put it into a bowl of cold water, and let it soak for a couple of hours. Wash it thoroughly in fresh water, cover with salt to about Jin. in thickness, place it in a Turbot kettle, pour in sufficient boiling water, boil up once, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about thirty minutes, by which time the fish should be done. Take it out, drain, put it on a napkin spread over a drainer on a dish, and serve. It may be garnished in various ways according to taste, and served with Dutch or other sauce. (3) Clean and wash the inside of a Turbot, rub it out- side with a little sauce to facilitate the removal of the slime, put it into a bowl of water, and wash it thoroughly, frequently changing the water; pour into a Turbot kettle sufficient water to more than cover the fish, with salt and saltpetre added in the proportion of 4oz. of salt and Joz. of saltpetre to each gallon of water. Set the kettle on the fire, and when the salt and saltpetre have dissolved put in the Turbot with its fins on and with a slight cut at the back nearly to the bone to prevent the under or white side cracking. Boil slowly for a few minutes, remove the kettle to the side of the fire, skimming frequently, and simmer for an hour or so, according to the size of the fish. The time allowed for boiling and simmering is one hour for a fish weighing about 101b. Take it out, drain, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (4) Clean the fish well but do not skin it. Set it over the fire in a large Turbot kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it completely. If the fish is of a medium size, put in with it the strained juice of a lemon and 1 table- spoonful of salt; let it gradually come to the boil, skim it well, and let it boil two minutes for every pound of Turbot. When sufficiently boiled, lay it on a hot dish, the whiteside of the fish turned upwards, sprinkle over the coral of a lobster, and arrange round it a close border of fresh parsley with some slices of lemon and a little horse- radish. Serve with it in a small tureen lobster or shrimp sauce made with cream. Boiled Turbot with Lobster Sauce.—Put a Turbot in a fish-kettle with a bunch of parsley, a lump of salt, plenty of cold water, and the juice of two large lemons. When the water commences to boil, move the kettle to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently until the fish is tender. Have ready prepared the following sauce: Pick the meat out of a hen lobster, and cut it into moderate-sized pieces; put the shell and spawn in a mortar with a lump of butter, and pound it until smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Make f pint of butter sauce, put the pieces of lobster in it, and season with a very small quan- tity of cayenne pepper. When the sauce boils, stir in the pounded mixture and a teacupful of cream, and move the pan to the edge of the fire. When the Turbot is cooked, drain it carefully, lay it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a border of fresh green parsley round the dish, and then a circle of quarters of lemon (see Fig. 886). Serve the fish while hot, with the sauce in a sauceboat. The fish does not require much boiling. Boiled Turbot with Prawn Sauce.—Clean a large Turbot, cut it down the back, saw off the head, and divide the