521 tee encyclopaedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jic., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—coniin ued. the juice through coarse muslin, squeezing and wringing it well. Add to the soaked gelatine the juice of a lemon and ilb. of powdered white sugar, stir them well together, and then add 1 pint of boiling water; continue to stir till the mixture becomes clear, then strain it through a flannel bag. Add the juice of the Strawberries, and strain it again, without either shaking or pressing the bag. Wet the inside of a cylinder-mould, pour in the jelly, and set it on ice till quite firm. Then turn it out on a glass dish, fill the centre and round the dish with whipped cream (see Fig. 681) sweetened with powdered white sugar, and serve at once. (6) Remove the stalks from 21b. of freshly-gathered ripe Strawberries, and cut 11,1b. of young pink rhubarb stalks into small lengths, removing any stringy peel. Put the fruit into a large jar, cover it with a plate, stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to about half its height, and keep it at the side, not on the fire. Press the fruit down from time to time by putting a small cup or saucer inside the jar, and drain off the juice as it is extracted into a basin. When all the juice is drawn, strain it through muslin into a lined stewpan. For each pint of juice mix in 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the whites and shells of two eggs, and loz. of gelatine, which should have been soaked for an hour in § breakfast-cupful of cold water. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Arrange tastefully in it a few ripe Strawberries cut lengthwise in halves and a few blanched and split pistachio-nuts. Pour the jelly gradually into the mould, it still being in a liquid state but not hot. Cover the mould, and bury it in pounded ice and salt for two or three hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a glass dish, and pile round it some well-whipped cream. (7) Make lqt. of calf’s-foot jelly, clear it with the beaten whites and shells of three eggs, and sweeten with 4oz. of crashed loaf sugar. Mix with it the strained juice of three lemons, 1 wineglassful of maraschino, and 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes, and skim it well. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag, and should it not be sufficiently stiff mix with it a small quantity of isinglass that has been dissolved in sufficient water to cover it. Select some large, ripe, and perfectly sound Strawberries, and pick the stalks off them; ornament the bottom of a mould with some of the fruit, and pour in a layer of the jelly. Fill the mould with alternate layers of the jelly anil fruit, letting each layer of jelly set before another is added. Pack the mould in pounded ice and salt, and leave it for several hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (8) Press the juice from a sufficient quantity of ripe Strawberries to fill a quart measure. Put 2oz. of isinglass into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water and the beaten white of one egg, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; next strain it through a silk sieve and leave it until cool. Boil fib. of coarsely-crashed loaf sugar in 1 pint of water until reduced to a syrup, and when somewhat cooled mix it with the dissolved isinglass and the juice from the Strawberries; squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice, being very careful to keep back the pips. Rinse a mould out with cold water, and fill it with the above mixture. Keep it on ice or in a cold place until quite firm, when the jelly may be turned on a dish and served. Strawberries in Jelly with Whipped Cream.—Press a sufficient quantity of red currants to obtain 3 breakfast- cupfuls of juice. Strain the juice into a saucepan, put in with it 3 breakfast-cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil it for twenty minutes, stirring in loz. of isinglass. Pick out lib. of fine ripe Strawberries all perfectly whole, remove their stalks, drop them gently into the syrup, anil boil them up at once; then move them off' the fire. Turn the fruit with the syrup carefully into a mould, and stand Strawberries—continued. it in a cold place. When cold and firm turn it out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pile some stiffly-whipped cream round it, and serve. Strawberry Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Strawberry cordial into a large glass, mix in a little lime-juice, fill up with ice, arrange a few Strawberries on top, and serve. Strawberry Liqueur.—Gather the Strawberries when quite ripe and full flavoured, put them into a large bottle with an equal quantity of sugar candy broken into small pieces, and fill the bottle with pure spirits. Cork the bottle tightly, and keep it in the sun or in a warm temperature for a month. At the end of that time, strain the liqueur through fine flannel, pour it into smaller bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry cool store-cupboard till required for use. Strawberry Marzipan.—Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and boil 1 jib. of powdered white sugar to the ball (see Sugar-boiling) ; put the blanched almonds into a mortar, and pound them to a fine paste, mixing them with the sugar. Crush in a cloth 1,1b. of picked Strawberries, squeeze out the juice, and add it to the paste of almonds and syrup; mix it well together, put the mixture in a pan, and set it on hot ashes. Keep on stirring it till the paste is sufficiently done, that is when a little piece laid on the back of the hand may be taken off again without sticking. Spread it on a slab, and when perfectly cold cut it into any desired shapes. Strawberry Meringue.—Beat 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar with five eggs for a few minutes, then add Jib. of warmed butter and 1 teacupful of milk ; mix 1 teaspoon- ful of baking-powder with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, then sift it gradually into tlie above ingredients, and stir till smooth. Turn the mixture into a large shallow baking- pan, spreading it thinly, but making it thicker round the edges than in the middle, as the paste is liable to rise in the middle. Bake the cake, and when it is cooked put a layer of freshly-picked raw Strawberries on the top; cover them with meringue, then put the cake in the oven for a minute or two. When lightly coloured on the top, take the cake out of the oven, cut it into squares, and serve. Strawberry Mousse.—Pick the tops off' lib. of freshly - gatliered ripe Strawberries, then pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve into a preserving-pan; mix with the puree a few table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar, and set the pan on the fire, stirring continually till the puree is well mixed. Move the pan off the fire, set it on pounded ice, and stir the contents till cold. Mix a few table spoonfuls of caster sugar with H pints of cream, flavour it with a little essence of vanilla, and whip it well. Mix the cream with the ] hi roe. Line a dome-shaped mould with white paper, fill it with the above mixture, put a round of paper on the top, and place the lid on the mould; solder the openings with butter, and pack the mould in pounded ice. When ready to serve the mousse, dip the mould in cold water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a folded napkin on a dish. Strawberry Pudding.—(1) Spread a layer of Strawberry jam at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish, and cover it thickly with breadcrumbs. Beat four eggs with 2oz. of caster sugar, then put them in a saucepan with lqt. of milk, season with a little grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire till thick. Four the above mixture slowly into the pie-dish with the crumbs, put the pudding in a moderate oven, and bake for half an hour. When cooked serve either hot or cold. (2) Mix fib. of caster sugar with 24 pints of Strawberry puree. Melt lfoz. of gelatine in a breakfast-cupful of hot water; when cold, strain it through a silk sieve, and mix it with the puree. Stick some almonds round the inside of a plain cylinder mould with a little melted gelatine, fill it with the puree, put a baking-sheet on the top, pack it in ice, with ice on the top, and let it freeze for two hours. When ready to serve, turn the ice out of the mould on to a dish.