THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 436 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Shallots or Eschalots—continued. out-house, where they can get air without mating anything else taste or smell of them. Shallot Gravy.—Put six peeled Shallots into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, pepper and salt, and boil for eight minutes; then add 1 teacupful of brown gravy, and boil them for a few minutes longer. Before serving, the gravy should be strained through a sieve. Fig. 555. Jersey Shallots. Shallot Omelet.—Put into a basin 1 table-spoonful of cream, several small pieces of butter, some chopped parsley, and three eggs, seasoning with pepper and salt; peel and chop three or four Shallots, mix them with the above ingre- dients, and beat well. Put a lump of butter into a fry- ing-pan, and when melted, pour in the omelet mixture. When set, roll the omelet round, brown it on one side, turn it on to a hot dish, pour a little sauce or rich gravy over it, and serve. Shallot Sauce.—(1) Peel and slice about a dozen Shallots, put them into a small saucepan with one bay-leaf and a small piece of thyme and parsley tied together, and a little more than 1 teacupful of white broth. Boil the liquor until it lias reduced to a glaze, then pour in H pints of clear meat gravy, and leave it over the lire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Strain the sauce through a fine hair or silk sieve, and serve it. (2) For Mutton.—Finely chop a dozen Shallots, season them with pepper and salt, put them over the fire in \ pint of gravy and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil for twenty minutes or so. Shallot Vinegar.—Peel and bruise |lb. of Shallots, put them into a jar with 2qts. of best white vinegar, and add 2oz. of chillies. Cover the jar, and set it in a warm place for forty-eight hours; then stand it in a cold place Shallots or Eschalots—continued. for two days. Strain the vinegar, bottle it, and cork tightly. Shallot Wine.—Peel four Shallots, chop them, put them in a mortar, and pound until quite smooth. Put them in a bottle with 1 pint of sherry, and let them stand for ten days. At the end of that time strain off the sherry, mix with it three or four more pounded Shallots, and leave it for another ten days. Strain the wine into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. This preparation can be used to flavour soups and sauces, &e., and imparts a most pleasant flavour without leaving any unpleasant taste. SHANE.—That part of the leg which extends from the knee to the foot. SHARE.—A certain authority informs us that a steak of Shark-flesh can be converted into a most delicious salad, but, as freshly-gathered lettuces must be rather scarce on board ship where Sharks are likely to be caught, the receipt lacks something of practical interest. It is given for what it is worth. Cut the steak lin. thick across the fish, and boil it slowly for an hour, changing the water twice. When cooked, drain the steak, put it in another saucepan with a small quantity of oil, a small piece of onion, season it with salt and pepper, and fry it till browned; then move it off the fire and leave it till cool. When cold, flake the fish with two forks, put it in a bowl with a highly- seasoned marinade, and leave it for two hours. Put two well-washed and shred hearts of lettuces in a salad-bowl, drain the fish, put it in with the lettuces, pour a mayonnaise dressing over it, and serve. SHARK-RAY.—See Angel-fish. SHARP SAUCE.—See Sauces. SHCHI.—This is a great favourite in all parts of Russia, and may be said to be the national dish, for it is common to high and low. It is prepared as follows : Cut some cabbage into shreds, and pack it away in barrels with vinegar and salt, until it has gone through a stage of fermentation but has not come to putrefaction, for then it would be spoiled. Then rub it through a wire sieve to form a puree, and boil it in prepared soup. It has a sub-acid flavour, and is usually served with clotted sour cream. It may be incorporated in the soup with other vegetables, and can be made to have the appearance of either green-pea soup or cock-a-leekie, although its sub- acid taste is sure to be prevalent in greater or less force. SHEEP.—All that it is necessary to say of this animal is recorded under Mutton and Lamb. We have to deal here with what is known as, or included in, the offal. Sheep’s Brains.—In order to remove these the skull must he cloven in twain, and then they can easily he taken out and soaked in cold salted water until the blood in them is disgorged. They can then be cooked and served as follow: Boiled Sheep’s Brains on Toast.—Drain and boil them until done. Put Joz. of butter into a stewpan with i table- Fig. 557 Boiled Sheep’s Brains on Toast. spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in 1 teacupful of milk, and stir until boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Cut one or two slices of bread, toast them, trim