TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 558 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Table Customs—continued. originated from a good cause, as the steel blade was supposed to impart a metallic taste to fish. The intro- duction of silver or plated fish-knives has set the matter at rest. “ When one ceases to cut or eat—whether it be to join in the conversation, or while waiting for another dish—the knife and fork ought to be laid on the plate, the handle of the one turned to the right and the handle of the other turned to the left; in other words the two extremities pointing inwards, so as to be able to remove them at once when required to be used again.” In France it is usual, as before observed, to use the same knife and fork throughout the savouries, the attendant wiping the blade of the knife and returning it; but in England a fresh knife and fork are used with every dish, so that the Englishman puts his knife and fork on his plate parallel to each other, inclined to the left for the convenience of the waiter, who seizes them with his thumb, thus preventing the possibility of them slipping and falling on to the guest, Table, or floor. It is only necessary to add one more suggestion, and the rest may then be left to the good taste and social experience of the individual. Never touch the blade of a knife, fork, or spoon with the fingers, and never put the hand, or any part of it, inside a drinking-vessel. The finger-bowl is provided for that purpose. In many parts of the Continent saltspoons are not used ; the custom there is to wipe the blade of the knife on a piece of bread and help yourself to salt with its point. TABLE DECORATIONS.—Under the heading of Appearances, Mr. Corblet, one of the chefs engaged upon the staff of this Encyclopaedia, points out very forcibly the value of pleasing the eye as well as the palate. The viands provided at a banquet may be very delicious, but will only seem to be so in proportion to their tempting appearance. The value of Table Decora- tions can scarcely be over-estimated; their entire absence would detract fatally from the enjoyment of the feast. The subject to be considered, under the heading of Table Decorations, does not apply to the dishes nor their garnishing, but to the display on the Table before the guests take their seats. Under Table Service will be described all that is necessary for the laying of the Table, so far as the facilities for eating and drinking ai’e concerned; but here we have to deal with supplementary or subsidiary decoration only, such as glass, china, silver, gold, and plated goods, ornamental centres, illumination, and flowers. Although fruit, jellies, cakes, and a variety of other comestibles perform an important part of the Table Decoration, they will be more fitly described under Table Service. By glancing carefully through the Plates with which this Encyclopedia is freely illustrated, some very beautiful designs will be found for centre pieces, all of which are not only practicable, but simple in their construction to anyone taking the trouble to study the art. These centre pieces, or grosses pieces, as French cooks style them, are usually contrived to suit the occasion of the feast they are destined to grace. A military banquet would be marked by a central design or trophy emblematic of war; cannons, piles of cannon-balls, helmets, arms of various sorts, drums, and other instruments, some of which might well be constructed out of cakes, jellies, fruit, or ices, and mould- ings in sugar, paste, or fat. Designs will be found in the Plates suitable for any purpose—naval, military, hunting, sporting, theatrical, dancing, musical, and others. The centre piece is the first consideration in decorating a Table; decide upon that, and then all other decorations can be made to harmonise, adding to the effect without detract- ing from it, and not eclipsing it by greater magnificence. All artists in Table Decoration admit the importance of a centre piece—it is the jewel around which they can arrange a suitable setting, and may therefore be anything Table Decorations—continued. from a fern, or vase of flowers, to the gorgeous fountain of scented water depicted in one of the coloured Plates. At first sight such an elaborate Table Decoration would appear to be an almost impossible construction, but this is not so, as will be seen and understood by reading carefully, and following the description of its details. The design is a central fountain of scented water, with figures bearing shells of candied fruits or bonbons. This stands in a lake of real water in which small gold fish are swimming, and upon which boats, swans, and other fanciful things are floating. The bank is of cork, made up with dried moss and artificial flowers, and here and there a pedestal of gum paste, supporting a vase or pot of real flowers. An arrangement of electric lights renders the appearance perfect. With regard to the fountain, it may be said such things can be obtained of any maker of ordinary garden foun- tains. The mode of working is precisely the same. Should the skill of the operator go so far as moulding, for which full directions are given in this Encyclo- paedia, the fountain could be specially constructed out of gum paste, and then varnished twice after one coat of size. In this way delicate colouring might be introduced; but, as a matter of high art, pure white would be more suit- able to the coloured surroundings. The supply to the fountain is connected from under the Table, then under the floor, and up the wall, to a tank, either in the same room on a high shelf or cabinet, or outside, or in the room above, either of the latter being preferable to the tank in the room, as it enables the waste to be returned to the tank without the knowledge of the party. The lake consists of a well-made zinc or tin tray with upright sides, not less than 3in. deep, shaped to suit the tastes of the constructor. The plan given (see Fig. 735) is a very good one, a space being left in the centre to allow the fountain pipes to pass. Before proceeding with the- construction of the lake, it is necessary to explain how the fountain-pipes may be conveyed through the Table. If it be a plain deal Table top on trestles, a hole can be cut in the wood and the difficulty is at an end. But if the Table be made of mahogany, walnut, or some other valuable wood, then the ingenuity of the operator must be exercised. Almost all dining-tables are telescopic, and furnished with leaves to be let in as occasion may require. If the Table is not telescopic, then the workable fountain is better not attempted. The falling of water must be imitated by an arrangement of spun glass. But when the telescope Table is opened as wide as necessary to receive all the leaves required, it will be observed that before tightening up there is a space between the leaves. Now, by having two strips of wood about 2in. wide, cut and shaped to fit in as if they wei’e a leaf, but not meeting in the centre (see Fig. 736), the difficulty of fountain communication with the tank is removed at once without injury to the Table.