THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 667 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Turtle—continued. and marjoram into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce, boil for a few minutes, season with salt and pepper, add a little lemon-juice, and remove the pan from the fire. Cut up fine about lib. of Turtle-meat, put it into the saucepan, warm it thoroughly, turn the whole into the patties, and serve; or, if preferred, the meat may be put into the the patty-pans before the paste is cooked, and baked with them. Turtle Pie.—Put a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish ; over these put the meat from a shoulder of a Turtle, cut also into thin slices, cover with more bacon, put a puff paste covering on the dish, place it in a mode- rate oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the pie when done, make a small hole in the top, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot rich brown sauce, and serve. Turtle Quenelles.—Remove all the gristle, &c., from about 12oz. of Turtle-steak, cut into pieces, put them into a mortar, pound well, and rub them through a fine sieve. Prepare a bread panada by working the crumb of a loaf in a saucepan with loz. of butter, stirring well over the fire until the mixture does not adhere either to the spoon or pan. Put the Turtle puree back into the mortar, add Jib. of the bread panada, and 6oz. of butter, work them well together, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, the whites of three eggs and the yolks of five, a little powdered basil and nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Form the quenelles into shape with 2 table-spoons, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling consomme or rich broth, and poach. Take them out when done, arrange in a heap or pyramid on a dish, and serve with rich perigord sauce. Turtle Soup.— (1) Kill and prepare a Turtle weighing about 1001b. in the usual way. Take off the fins, saw the shell into six or eight pieces, and put them together with the head and fins into a large saucepan of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, then take out each piece of the shell separately; remove the thin shell and the scales from the fins, put the whole into another saucepan, cover them well with water, and boil until the meat is tender and can be easily removed. Take them out, remove all the bones and uneatable parts, put the flesh between two dishes or boards with a weight on the top, and let it remain until quite cold. Return the bones to the liquor in the saucepan, and simmer gently at the side of the fire. In the meantime put 15lb. eacli of knuckle of veal and leg of beef into a large saucepan, add two fowls without their fillets, the fleshy part of the Turtle, a large bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, six .bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, lqt. of mushrooms, four large onions, two heads of celery, Jib. of parsley roots, eight cloves, Joz. each of salt and whole pepper, and pour over 1 pint of sherry anil Jgall. of stock. Place the saucepan over a clear fire, and boil until the liquor is reduced to a glaze, then add the strained liquor in which the Turtle and bones have been boiled and as much more stock as will be required for the soup. Boil for a few minutes longer, skimming as re- quired ; strain the liquor into another saucepan, add a few more onions and two or three carrots, and simmer gently for about five hours. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another pan, remove all the fat, and add sufficient roux thickening to bring the broth to the con- sistency of thin Spanish sauce; put the pan away from the fire, and continue to skim until the soup is quite clear. Put 3 breakfast cupfuls of consomme or rich broth into a saucepan with about Jib. of green basil, half that quantity each of marjoram and lemon thyme, a small sprig of thyme, and a handful of parsley. Boil up once, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer for an hour or so; rub the whole through a fine sieve, and add the puree to the soup. Cut the Turtle-meat, which must be quite cold, into small pieces about ljin. square, add them to the soup, simmer gently for thirty minutes or thereabouts, add more seasoning if required, skim - carefully, put in the blanched and drained green fat, and if wanted for use turn the soup into the tureen or into basins to get cold. In the latter case it can be warmed up a little at a time if required. A few chicken quenelles, 2 or 3 Turtle—continued. wineglassfuls of Madeira, lemon-juice, and cayenne should always accompany this soup. Should the whole of a Turtle be more than required, dried Turtle meat can be substi- tuted, for after a Turtle has once been dressed it will not last very long in a fit state to be used. (2) For this a Turtle weighing from 1401b. to 1801b. should be used, as the smaller ones, in comparison, pos- sess very little green fat. Chop off the head of the Turtle, tie it up by the fins, and let it hang for ten or twelve hours; take it down, place it on its back on a board, and cut out the belly with a sharp knife, leaving the fins and keeping as close to the upper shell as possible. Take out the interior, remove any green fat that may be on it, and throw the remainder away. Next cut away the fins and fleshy parts, leaving the two shells empty; cut the upper one into quarters and the bottom one into halves. Put the Turtle-meat, shells, and head into a large kettle such as a turbot-kettle, pour over sufficient cold water to cover, boil quickly on a sharp fire for five minutes to scald them, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, take them out when cool, cut off the scales, and throw them away ; remove all the green fat, which must be put away until wanted, and return the whole of the remainder to the kettle, when it may be allowed to simmer until the meat is tender and will easily leave the shells. Take them out when done, remove all the glutinous meat from the shells, cut into small squares, and keep them warm until wanted. The fleshy part may be used for making a fricandeau, but it is not considered worth eating, as very few stomachs can digest it. To prepare the stock three large saucepans should be used; if only one be used, more boil- ing is required, and the different ingredients lose a deal of their aroma. Put a good supply of butter at the bottom of the three saucepans and add equally 61b. of lean ham, 201b. of beef, and 601b. of knuckle of veal, all cut up rather small. Season with four onions and a carrot cut in slices, loz. of salt, ten cloves, two blades of mace, two dozen peppercorns, and 1 pint of water. Put the saucepans on a sharp fire, stirring frequently, and let them remain until a brown glaze is formed at the bottoms; then fill them up with the liquor in which the Turtle was blanched, adding more water should there not be suffi- cient. Boil the contents of the saucepans, remove to the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently for about two hours, skimming as required. Pass the liquor through a sieve into basins, and let it cool; pour it into a large stock-pot or saucepan, and keep it on the side of the fire until wanted. Fill up the three saucepans containing the meat with more water, and simmer for about four hours, then strain off the liquor and reduce it to a glaze. Melt 31b. of butter in a saucepan, which must be a large one, add ten sprigs each of thyme, winter savory, marjoram, basil, and ten bay-leaves, cook for a few minutes, but without allowing them to colour ; add 411b. of Hour, stir well until it takes colour, then remove the pan from the fire, and stir frequently until the whole is nearly cold. Pour in the stock, which should be about lOgalls., boil up, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for a couple of hours, skimming as required. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve or cloth into another large saucepan, put in the pieces of Turtle meat, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer until it is nearly done; then add all the green fat, and salt if required, and continue to cook until the whole of the meat and fat is tender. Turn all into basins and let it remain until wanted for use. Before serving it must be warmed, seasoned slightly with cayenne, a little Madeira wine added to flavour it, and lemon served separately. Should only a part be required for use, the remainder if put into jars and covered will remain good for a long time. The glaze from the meat in the three saucepans may be put away in jars until wanted, or added to the stock. Or in the same way a clear soup may be made by filling up the three saucepans when the bottoms are covered with a white instead of a brown glaze, so as to keep the stock white and clear. Strain when ready into the large saucepan, reduce the liquor to two-thirds its original bulk, season as before with the herbs, and add while boiling a roux made