THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 496 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Souse—continued. cooks it is understood to mean a sort of marinading applied to pig’s head, fish, and other things. SOUTERAGE.—The technical term given by wine- blenders to a mixture of two or more sorts. SOUTHDOWN MUTTON.—See Mutton. SOWANS—This is a Scotch dish made from the inner husks of the oat grain, prepared by putting them into a wooden tub having a narrow mouth, and mixing in with them a small quantity of water. The sids, as they are called, rise to the surface, and must be stirred down with a spatula or spoon until all of them are wet. Afterwards they are covered with more water and allowed to remain for a week or so imtil they are quite sour, then turn them out on a fine sieve placed over a jar, and let as much of the liquid as possible run through; pour a little more cold water over the sids so that all the goodness may be extracted, and the liquor is then set to become clear. When required for use the clear liquor is poiu-ed off, and some of the sediment put into a saucepan with a little water and boiled for half-an-hour; it should then be poured out into plates, and served with milk; separately. SOY.—The name given to a sauce which is a sort of ketchup made from the Soy bean (Soya hispida), a native of China, Japan, and the Moluccas. “We have got into the way,” says Kettner, “of calling it Indian Soy because it comes to us from India, but ail the best is made in Japan and China by a process which is perfectly well understood.” This process is given as follows: Take 1 gall, of the seed of Soya hispida (white haricots or kidney-beans may be used instead), boil them in water until quite soft and the water almost evaporated, then add lgall. of bruised wheat. Keep the mixture in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and then stir in lgall. of common salt dissolved in 2galls. of warm water. Put this into a stone jar and bung it loosely, leaving it thus for 8 or 10 weeks, giving it an occasional stir up. At the expiration of that time, squeeze out by pressure all the liquor and bottle it for use. The residue may be salted and soaked again for a further supply, which would not be so good as the first. Kettner further observes:—“ It is not quite clear, how- ever, why, since we might import though we cannot grow the Soy bean, which is like a kidney bean, we cannot produce the sauce for ourselves ; and this mystery has led to a wide-spread superstition that the Soy must be made from some of the horrors with which the Chinese at least are known to indulge their appetites. The bean suggests a black beetle, and there are numbers of people who seemingly believe that from black beetle the Soy is made. Another point is not clear. From every account of the process of making Soy we should expect a sauce as salt as anchovy sauce—it is said to be used like salt at Oriental tables—but the Soy with which we are familiar in Europe is not only as black as treacle, but also as sweet.” Cooley informs us that the Soy of the shops is, in nine cases out of ten, a spurious article, made in this country by simply saturating molasses or common treacle with salt. Evidently this is the British-made Soy with which Kettner appears to have been familiar. A better plan of making an imitation Soy is as follows: Mix together by means of a gentle heat, lgall. of malt syrup, 2|lb. of treacle, 21b. of salt, and 1 pint of mushroom - juice. Stir steadily until the ingredients are well incorporated ; set to stand in a large jar, and in two or three weeks’ time draw off the clear liquid for use. Soy Sauce for Fish.—Put 2oz. of butter in a lined sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of flour and stir it over the fire till mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of strained and cooled fish broth. Continue stirring it over the fire Soy —continued. until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, mix in | teacupful of Soy and Jib. of butter, breaking it into small pieces. When the butter has dissolved, the sauce is ready for serving; it is a very good accompaniment to boiled pike. SPAGHETTI.—A variety of macaroni which has given its name to various dishes prepared with it; of these the following rank very high : Spaghetti au Gratin.—Boil fib. of Spaghetti, place it in a saucepan, moistening it with | pint each of German and bechamel sauce. Season with 1 pinch of pepper and J pinch of nutmeg, adding fib. of grated cheese. Toss well, put it in a baking-dish, sprinkle the top with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, pour over a very little clarified butter, and place it in the oven. When of a line golden colour, after about fifteen minutes, take from the oven, and serve. Spaghetti a l’ltalienne.—Put fib. of boiled Spaghetti in a saucepan, add 1 pint of tomato sauce and fib. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with b pinch of pepper and | pinch of nutmeg; cook for ten minutes, tossing well, and serving with more cheese. Spaghetti a la Napolitaine.—Boil fib. of fine Spaghetti, drain it, and put it back into the saucepan with b pint each of tomato and Spanish sauce, six mushrooms, two truffles, and a small piece of cooked, smoked, red beef tongue, all cut up dice-shaped; season with \ pinch of pepper and b pinch of nutmeg, and add fib. of grated Parmesan cheese. Cook for ten minutes, tossing well, and serve with a little cheese separately. Spaghetti with Cheese.—Put fib. of Spaghetti broken into small pieces in a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt, and boil for twenty minutes. Drain the Spaghetti, and place it in a buttered baking-dish. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of grated cheese into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk and a lump of butter about the size of an egg, and stir over the fire till the cheese is nearly melted. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 tea- cupful of milk, then stir them in with the cheese, and pour the whole over the Spaghetti, and bake in a quick oven till of a rich yellow colour. If cooked too long, the cheese will be rendered tough. The Spaghetti should be served while very hot. Spaghetti with Cream Sauce.—Take 1 handful of the stick macaroni without breaking, plunge it into boiling salted 'water, and boil till tender. As the sticks soften, bend and coil them in the water, but be careful not to break them. When cooked, drain the Spaghetti, and pour cold water through it. Serve with cream sauce. SPANISH BLANC-MANGE.—See Blanc mange. SPANISH BUNS.—See Buns. SPANISH BUTTER.—See Butter. SPANISH CAKES.—See Cakes. SPANISH COMPOTE.—See Compotes. SPANISH CREAM.—See Cream. SPANISH CUSTARD.—See Custards. SPANISH FRITTERS. —See Fritters. SPANISH LIQUORICE.—See Liquorice. SPANISH MACAROONS.—See Macaroons. SPANISH MACKEREL.-See Mackerel. SPANISH NUTS.—The name by which small nuts of the filbert kind imported from Spain and principally from Barcelona are known. They are sometimes used in confectionery. Spanish-Nut Bonbons.—Crack some Spanish Nuts, and when free from their shells weigh them; boil lib. of them,