the encyclopaedia of practical cookery. 438 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heuds. Sheep—con tinned. Casserole of Sheep’s Feet with Rice.—Blanch some small Sheep’s Feet, remove the long hone, and split each foot in two lengthwise. Put two chopped onions, a carrot, a turnip, three bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme, and a few cloves into a stewpan with a little dripping or chopped suet, and fry them over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix it well, pour in gradually 2qts. of white stock, add the feet with a small lump of salt, and let the whole simmer by the side of the fire till the feet are tender; then drain them on a cloth. Pour lqt. of white sauce and l pint of the strained cooking-liquor of the feet into a stewpan, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick cream, then put in the feet with twenty button-mushrooms, and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and let them simmer for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, mix them with the above ingredients, and stir them by the side of the fire, but do not let them boil after the eggs are added; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the above mixture, turn it into a casserole, and serve. Fried Sheep’s Feet.—(1) Scald some Sheep’s Feet, wash them, and steep them in warm water to disgorge the blood. Put some slices of vegetables in a deep dish. Boil some spices in vinegar, and pour it over the vegetables. When tlie marinade is cold, place the feet in it, and steep them for some hours. When ready, drain the feet, dip them in frying-batter, put them in a deep frying-pan with some Fig. 559. Fried Sheep’s Feet. boiling fat, and fry them till brown. Drain the feet, anange them in a circle on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley (see Fig. 559), and serve. (2) Scald and wash the feet, and let them soak in warm water until all the blood lias left them and they are quite white. Put -Jib. each of chopped beef-suet and chopped bacon, and 4oz. of butter, into a stewpan, with an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, and a small quantity each of mace and allspice; pour in as much water as will cover the feet, and boil the whole for an hour. Strain the prepared liquor, and return it to the stewpan; then drain the feet, put them in it, and boil until tender. In the meantime, prepare the following pickle: Peel and slice three shallots, one onion, and a carrot, and put them into a stewpan with 2cz. of butter, two or three sprigs and roots of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, a clove, and a small quantity of spice. Stir the vegetables over the fire until lightly frowned, then pour in about f pint of vinegar and water in equal quantities, and boil it for a few minutes. This pickle should be highly seasoned. When sufficiently cooked drain the feet, put them in a basin, pour the pickle over them, and let them steep for an hour or two. Make a good batter for frying, put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire till blue smoke rises; then dip the feet in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry them until nicely browned. When taken out of the fat, lay them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the feet in a circle on it, put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Fried Stuffed Sheep’s Feet.—Wash, scald, and steep the feet in warm water until well disgorged; then put them in a saucepan, cover them with white stock, and boil until tender. When sufficiently cooked (they must not be done too much), drain and bone the feet, season them Sheep—continued. well inside with salt and pepper, and stuff them with a veal quenelle forcemeat. Put 1 teacupful of hour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and stir in sufficient beer to make a rather thick batter. Beat the whites of two eggs well, and add them to the batter. Place the feet in the batter. Put a large lump of clarified fat or butter into a hat stewpan, and put it on the fire; when it boils, which may be known by the blue smoke which rises, put in the feet, and fry them slowly until well browned. When taken out of the fat, drain them for two or three seconds on a sheet of kitchen- paper, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a Spanish sauce over them, and serve. Sheep's Feet a la Poulette.—(1) Put a dozen Sheep’s Feet in water the day before they are wanted. Split the hoof in two, take out the woolly tuft, trim them neatly, tie them together in fours, scald them, and put them into a saucepan with two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, peeled but not cut into pieces, and season with cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Mix 1 table-spoonful of Hour with a little water, pour it in the saucepan, cover the feet with cold water, stand the saucepan over a moderate fire, and let the water boil for six hours. Take the feet out, drain them, remove the shank-bone, put the feet in an empty saucepan, and leave them with the lid on. Fry a large chopped onion in butter, with J teacupful of Hour, till nicely browned. Put lqt. of broth into another saucepan, and drop in a bunch of parsley and a few mushroom trimmings; stir in the flour and onions, and continue stirring over the fire till the broth boils; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for a quarter-of-an hour. Skim it clear of fat, and pass it through a conical strainer into the saucepan containing the feet; then add 2oz. of button-mushrooms, peeled and trimmed, and a pinch of pepper. Beat the yolks of three eggs with a little milk, and in twenty minutes’ time stir them into the broth, with five or six small pieces of butter, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little lemon-juice. When cooked sufficiently, arrange the feet upon a dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and they are then ready to be served. (2) Scald the feet, wash them well, and steep them in warm water until disgorged and very white. Drain them, put them in a saucepan with a blanc prepared as for calf’s head, and boil them until tender. Mix with some tournee sauce \ table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon, and boil it until thickly reduced. Drain the feet, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sheep’s Feet a la Vinaigrette.—Trim a dozen Sheep’s Feet, split their hoofs, and take out the tuft that is found between the toes; tie them together in fours, put them in a saucepan with cold water, and stand it over the fire till the water boils; then take the feet out, rinse them in a little cold water, put them in the saucepan with fresh water, add two or three carrots and turnips, one large onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, and some salt and peppercorns, and let them simmer by the side of the fire for five hours. When done, take the feet out, untie them, remove the shank-bone carefully so as not to tear the flesh, lay them on a plate, sprinkle over them some chopped paisley, salt and pepper, and let them cool. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, dip the feet in it, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear cinder fire, turning till browned on both sides. Baste with a little butter, dish, and serve with either tartar or mayonnaise sauce. Sheep's-Feet Pie.—Wash and clean four feet, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt, sufficient water to cover them, and boil till tender. Drain the feet, separate the meat from the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces. Roll out thinly ten pieces of paste, making each the same size as the small baking-tin in which it is to be baked. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, make it very hot, then dip in the pieces of paste separately, and place them upon a sieve to drain. When well freed from fat,