THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 519 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Strawberries—continued. cream with, the puree. Whip the mixture over ice till the isinglass is well blended with the mixture, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice and salt. When ready to Fig. 679. Strawberry Cheese. serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. If in the winter a pot of Strawberry jam can he used in place of fresh Strawberries. Strawberry Conserve.—Take some freshly-gathered very ripe Strawberries, pick them, crush them in a cloth, and wring out the juice. To each dessert spoonful of juice allow 6oz. of sugar. Boil the sugar to the pearl (see Sugar-boiling), then take it off the fire and pour the juice into it, and, if it requires it, a little carmine. Stir with a wooden spoon till the conserve begins to get dry and white, and put it into moulds or paper cases. Strawberry Cordial.—Put some ripe Strawberries in a large earthenware vessel, cover them with proof spirit, and let them macerate for two days. Drain the spirit off into another bowl, cover the Strawberries with fresh spirit, and let them stand for the same time. When the last lot of spirit is drained off, cover the Strawberries with water. Drain the water, mix all the liquors together, measure them, and for every gallon mix in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 teacupful of orange-flower water. When the sugar has dissolved, filter the cordial, bottle it, and cork the bottles down tightly. Strawberry Cream.—(1) Remove the stalks from ljlb. of ripe Strawberries, pass them through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix 1 heaped teacupful of caster sugar with them, and stir continually till the sugar has dissolved. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk, then pour on it gradually lqt. of boiling cream; turn the cream into a saucepan, and boil it for a minute or two, stirring all the time, rut the puree of Strawberries into a trifle- dish, and when slightly cooled pour the cream over them. Stand the dish in a cold place till the cream has set. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; put half of the beaten egg over the Strawberries, colour the remainder with a little prepared cochineal, and fleck it about on the top. It is then ready for serving. Spinach- greening may be used in place of the cochineal if desired. (2) Pick the stalks from lib. of sound ripe Strawberries, bruise them in a basin, and add sufficient sugar to sweeten them ; rah the pulp through a sieve into a basin, and pour over it 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of isinglass pre- viously dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of warm water. Pour this cream into a mould, and put it upon the ice to set; when quite firm, turn it out in the usual way. If fresh Strawberries are out of season bottled Strawberry pulp or Strawberry jam may be used instead; but this cream is best made from the fresh fruit. Raspberries, currants, and mulberries can be used in the same way. Strawberry Cream without Cream.—Put 11b. of Straw- berry jam into a basin and beat it well with Jib. of Strawberries—continued. caster sugar; then put in the whites of six eggs that have been well separated from the yolks, and beat the whole for twenty minutes. Drop the mixture in spoonfuls into a glass dish, and serve. Strawberry Cream Ice.—(1) Put lilt, of Strawberries into a basin with sufficient sifted crashed loaf sugar to sweeten, add the strained juice of a lemon and a half, and pass the whole through a sieve into another basin. Add a little cochineal to colour, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and more sifted sugar if required. Turn the preparation into the freezer, work it well, put it into a mould packed in ice, let it set, turn it out, and it is ready for use. (2) Put 21b. of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan with four eggs and a vanilla bean broken in small pieces; whisk well, and add lgall. of rich cream. Stir well until the liquor is about to boil, strain the whole through a fine sieve into a basin, let it cool, pour it into a freezer, work it well until frozen, then add 1 pint of ripe Strawberries to each quart of the vanilla mixture. Work well until the whole is frozen, put it into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when set, and serve. (3) Pick the tops off lib. of ripe Strawberries, mix them with lib. of Strawberry jam, lib. of caster sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, 1 teacupful of milk, and 1 pint of cream. When thoroughly mixed, turn the whole into a freezing-pot and freeze it. The ice-cream can be either served in glasses, or, when frozen, turned into a fancy mould, which should be covered and packed in the pounded ice ami salt. When ready to serve the cream, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. (4) Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and stand it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Mix 1 breakfast-cup- ful of sugar with 1 teacupful of flour, then beat in two eggs. Pour the boiling milk gradually over the eggs and flour, stirring all the time, then turn the whole back into the saucepan, and stir it by the side of a moderate fire for twenty minutes.* Allow it to cool a little, then turn it into the freezing-pot. Work it till partially frozen, then mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, lqt. of cream, and lqt. of Strawberries with their stalks picked off, and finish freezing the cream. When frozen, turn the cream into a fancy mould, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, then turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. (5) Put into a vessel Jib. of powdered sugar and six yolks of eggs, and mix well with the spatula for ten minutes; add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for ten minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin; then place it on the hot stove, and with the spatula stir gently at the bottom until well heated, but it must not boil. Take off the fire, set it on a table, immediately add 1 pint of sweet cream, and mix again for two minutes; return the basin to the stove, beat the contents up again with a whisk, and place it on the table once more. When cool, add J pint of well-picked and cleaned Strawberries, and mix well with the spatula for two minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, pressing the Strawberries through with a wooden spoon, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish, with a folded napkin placed over it. (6) Beat 21b. of Strawberry jam up with about J teacupful of water, mix a small quantity of lemon-juice with it, and strain it through a cloth. Whip to a stiff froth as much cream as there is juice, mix them together, and freeze in a freezing-machine. When sufficiently frozen, turn the cream into a mould, close it tightly, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In about a couple of hours’ time, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the ice on to a dish, and serve. Strawberry Cream Ice en Surprise.—Pick the tops off 3 pints of Strawberries, and put them into a deep dish with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Mix with 3 pints of cream 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and 1 wineglassful of wine. Put the cream in the freezing-pot, and when it is frozen make a hollow in the centre by beating the cream to the side; fill the hollow with the Strawberries and sugar, put some of the cream on the top, place the