TUE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 026 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Truffles —continued. little clarified butter, sprinkle over a seasoning of salt and pepper, and, if desired, a little grated nutmeg. Warm the Truffles, pour in the reduced sauce, and stir well until the preparation is quite solid. Put this into live or six table-shells, sift over breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, place them in the oven, and brown them; or they may be browned with the salamander. Put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Wash and peel three or four large Truffles, cut them up into small squares, put them into a saucepan, sprinkle over grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste, pour over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine, and boil for two or three minutes. Put a few table-spoonfuls of rather thick brown sauce into another saucepan, add half the quantity of meat glaze, reduce to half the original bulk, pour in the liquor from the Truffles, and boil for a few minutes; then add the Truffles, stir well, turn the whole into a basin, and let it get cold. Care must be taken that the sauce is thick, so that when cold it will form a compact mass with the Truffles. Roll out some light paste or putt' paste trimmings, put small pieces of the preparation at intervals on it, cover these lover, cut them into shape with a tin cutter, cover them with bread- crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out when done, drain them, place them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Preserved Truffles.—Well wash and scrub the required quantity of Truffles, which should be quite black and freshly gathered, peel them carefully rather thin, pack them closely in bottles, cork them up securely, place them in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of water, and cook gently for one hour. Let the bottles cool before taking them out, put them in a dry place, and the Truffles will remain good for a long time. Puree of Truffles. Well wash and peel £lb. of Truffles, put them into a mortar with loz. of butter, and pound them well; rub them through a fine sieve' into a sauce- pan, with 3 teacupfuls of Spanish sauce and l teacupful of essence of Truffles, and boil for a minute or two ; then stir in another ounce of butter and loz. of chicken glaze, and the puree is ready for use. Stewed Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash seven or eight large green Truffles, cut them up into thin slices, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and add a little beaten mace, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the lid on the pan, set it on the side of the Flu. 839. Stewed Truffles. fire, and simmer slowly for one hour. Add a thickening of butter and flour, stir well until the liquor is thick, remove the saucepan from the fire, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put a crust of fried bread in the centre of a dish, place the Truffles on it (see Fig. 839), take out the bunch of sweet herbs, pour the liquor over the Truffles, and serve. (2) Cut some fresh Truffles into slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the lire fora few minutes. Pour l pint of sherry over the Truffles, add a small piece of glaze, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until tender. When the Truffles are cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toast or small Truffles— continued. croutons of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Truffles on Crust.—Cut some slices of bread about fin. in thickness off a household loaf, and shape the pieces like half hearts, making them round one end and pointed the other, with the point of a knife cutting an incision on one side only of each piece of bread. Fry them in butter till of a light golden colour, then drain and hollow them out, but keep warm. Cut about Jib. of raw peeled Truffles into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, season them with salt and pepper, and fry them over a brisk fire. Pour over the Truffles 1 teacupful of melted glaze and 1 teacupful of Madeira wine, and boil them gently till the liquid has reduced to half its original quantity. Move the Truffles from the lire; thicken their cooking liquor with a little sauce and about 2oz. of butter, and stir it for a few minutes at the side of the fire; then fill the crusts with it. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them. Stuffed Truffles.—(1) Well wash twelve large Truffles in warm water, put them into a saucepan with sufficient white wine to cover them, and cook them. Take them out, drain them, cut them with a cutter, scoop out the insides, fill them with cooked forcemeat, put them into the oven, warm them up, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. (2) Scoop out all the inside from twelve large Truffles cooked in champagne and cut in halves, leaving merely the shells. Chop the insides up with 4oz. of chicken force- meat and a few mushrooms, well seasoned with salt and pepper, fill the Truffle shells with the mixture, brush them over with egg, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped raw Truffle, and put them into a braising-pan with a little rich stock. Set the pan on the fire, cover over the lid with ashes, and cook gently for an hour. Pour a little Truffle sauce in the bottom of a dish, place the halves of Truffles on it, and serve. Timbale of Truffles.—(1) Peel and wash lb), or 2lb. of Truffles, cut them up into slices about Jin. in thickness, put them into a saute-pan with a little warmed butter, season them with salt and grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until they are done, taking care not to break them. In the meantime, rub loz. of butter into Jib. of flour, add a little sugar, and make the whole into a stiffish paste by adding the yolks of three eggs. Roll it out very thin on a floured board, and cut it up into various shapes. Well butter a plain timbale mould, pack it in ice, decorate it with the shapes of paste, and let them set. Prepare a puff paste with lib. of flour to 12oz. of butter, roll it also out thin, and line the mould with it. It should be seven turns puff paste. Fill the mould with the slices of cooked Truffles, cover over with more of the puff paste, make a slight hole in the centre, place the mould on a baking- sheet, in the oven, and bake. Turn the timbale out of the mould when done, make a slight hole in the top, pour in some warmed half-glaze, cover over the hole with a slice of cooked Truffle, and serve hot. (2) Scrub and well wash fifteen Truffles, peel them, cut them up into quarters, put them into a basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, pour over 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, cover over the basin, and put it in a cool place until wanted. Put half of the Truffle trimmings into a mortar, pound them well, mix in lib. of rasped fresh bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and rub the mix- ture lightly through a sieve. Sprinkle the inside of a well-buttered timbale mould with breadcrumbs, line it with short paste, mask it with three quarters of the bacon mixture, put the quarters of the Truffles in the centre, brush them over with a little melted meat glaze, cover over with the remainder of the bacon, and lastly with a round of the paste, fixing it to the sides. Put the mould into a hot oven, and bake for nearly or quite an hour, taking care not to let the paste have too much colour. Put 3 teacupfuls of brown sauce into a saucepan, and reduce them to 1 teacupful, adding gradually l wineglassful of Madeira, 2 or 3 tabic-spoonfuls of melted meat-glaze.