405 CURABILITY OF SYPHILIS. buttock or back, taking the utmost care as to the aseptic condition of the hypodermic syringe (a separate one should be used for each patient). It is much more difficult to graduate the dose successfully bv this method than by oral administration, and sometimes very severe stomatitis and diarrhoea are set up by it. In fact, many deaths have been recorded directly due to the hypodermic administration of mer- cury for syphilis. Nor is there the slightest reason for thinking that, as a rule, either inunction or the subcutaneous method has any advan- tages over the ordinary plan followed in England and France. vVe do not give iodide of potassium for tertiary syphilis, or quinine tor a"ue, by means of the hypodermic syringe or inunction, and why should either method be adopted in treating secondary syphilis by mercury? r i i In certain exceptional oases they may, however, be usetul, and especially is this true with regard to inunction in the treatment of infants with congenital syphilis. __ _ The question of marriage and secondary syphilis.—Dm-mg or at the end of a course of treatment the surgeon is often a,sked how soon it is safe for the patient to marry. It is generally admitted that, even supposing a careful and prolonged mercurial course is carried out, it is advisable to wait for two years at least after any symptoms have appeared. If this rule be followed, there is but little risk to either wife or offspring ; but with regard to the latter it must be admitted that no absolute guarantee can be given. Very much will depend on whether the treatment has been thoroughly persevered with for one or two years, and whether the symptoms have been slight, or have been severe and have resisted treatment. So long as mucous patches exist on the lips, tongue, or throat, the patient should be warned as to the danger of conveying infection from them by kissing, or by the accidental transference through drinking utensils, etc. How syphilis may be conveyed in this manner is well illustrated by the following cases under my notice ;— A glass-blower contracted a chancre of the lip from using the metal bio wing-tube handed on to him by a fellow workman who was suffei’- ing from mucous patches of the mouth. Subsequently, the second patient infected his wife and child by kissing, both of them developing chancres of the lips. Is syphilis curable by mercury ?—To the patient the chief danger of syphilis lies in the tertiary stage, and it is, therefore, of the utmost importance to decide whether prolonged mercurial treatment will prevent the occurrence of any tertiary symptoms. According to some, who take a pessimistic view, syphilis is never really cured ; according to others, out of a hundred cases of secondary syphilis treated early and for a long period (one to two years) not more than five or ten will ever have any further trouble from the disease. The latter view, if perhaps rather too favourable, seems to be the more correct, provided that the patient commences treatment early, and can tolerate mercury well. It is w'ell known that under these con- ditions, and even occasionally when little or no treatment has been