375 8GUBVY BIOKETS. the -urns are spongy and bleed readily, the condition however, afftcSTonly thL parts of the alveolus from ..hich the teeth have Seady°protmded (Lrlow). Bleeding may occur from the nose, rarelv from the rectum, and hsematuria is not uncommon. Tenderness is evidenced by the disposition of the child to keep the limbs so still as sometimes to simulate paralysis, and by signs of ^eat Tin when the limbs are handled. The lower Imbs, and especially the femora, are most frequently affected : but the condition may be more or less general, involving the scapula, upper limbs, and th^ax. Sinking of the sternum en bloc, due to separation of the ribs irom the costal cartilages, is of such comparative frequency in this disease as to be in some degree pathognomonic (Barlow) The swelling ot the limbs usually commences in the neighboui-hood of the epiphyses; it may be limited, but more commonly involves the whole segment corresponding to the affected bone; it is firm and tense, not pitting on pressure. The limb is white, except when ecchymoses are pr^ent, and hot to the touch. Occasionally separation of the epiphyses occurs, or fracture of the shafts, and then soft crepitus is elicited on movement. . . .1 ±. The disease is readily recognised by attention to the symptoms of scurvy. It is accompanied by symptoms of severe illness, great ansemia, and rapid emaciation, and may terminate fatally ; relapses may occur or the course become chronic. When uninfluenced by treatment the average duration is from two to four months (Barlow). Treatmeiit consists in the same attention to diet that is needed in rickets, Hme-juice or fresh orange-juice being added. The limbs affected should be treated with cooling lotions and supported by bandages ] if separation of the epiphyses or fracture occurs, splints are necessary. Eepeebnces. T. Smith: Pathological Society’s Transactions, vol. xxvii. p. 219. Cheadle: lancet, vol. ii., 1878, p. 657, and vol. ii., 1882, p. 48. Barlow: Medico-Chirurgical Society’s Transactions, vol. Ixvi. p. 159, and lancet, voh ii., 1894, p. 1075.