NEUROMA. 699 n false neuroma is composed of soft fibrous tissue, or of fibrous tissue undergoing myxomatous degeneration (Fig. 193). Gliomatous and sarcomatous tumours may also occur, but they are less frequent. The latter tumours differ from the fibrous growths in the greater rapidity of their development, in their tendency to infiltrate rather than simply to push aside the nerve fibres amongst which they grow, in their greater softness, and in the gelatinous or mottled appearance of their cut surface. All these growths are most common in the nerves of the extremities; their size varies from that of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, but most of the growths are about the size of a hazel-nut or a walnut. In shape they are generally oval, tlie long axis of the growth lying parallel with the fibres of the trunk in which it is formed ; their surface is smooth, and in many cases the tumour lies amongst the surrounding nerve bundles, with- out actually involving the latter. In other cases, however, one or more of the nerve bundles may pass quite through the tumour, so that it is not possible to separate the growth from the nerve. Another form of neuroma is sometimes de- scribed : the “ traiiiiiatic neuroma/’ This is identical in structure with the “bulb” on the proximal end of a divided nerve, already described on page 682 ; but if a nerve be only partly cut across, a bulb will form at the seat of injury, and will thus form a swelling on the nerve trunk itself. Symptoms.—The diagnosis of a neuroma de- pends partly on the symptoms caused by its pre- sence, and partly on the physical characters it presents. The most characteristic features of such a tumour are its extreme sensitiveness, and the sharp shooting neuralgic pain caused by touching it. In addition to pain, the pressure on the nerve fibres may give rise to numbness, tingling, or pricking sensations in the parts supplied by the afi’ected nerve, and in a few cases complete anaesthesia results. Muscular twitchings are less common symp- toms, whilst clonic or epileptiform convulsions, although described, are certainly very rare complications. So-called “ trophic ” lesions are also imcommon, but are of more frequent occurrence than muscular spasms. They comprise such changes as have already been described as following sections of a nerve—e.^?. glossy skin, ulcera- tion of finger-tips, painless whitlows, increase or diminution of sweat, etc. On examination, a neuroma is found to be a smooth oval swellino- of variable size, situated in the course of a nerve trunk. It can readily be moved in a lateral direction, but is found to be scarcely, if at all, movable in the long axis of the nerve on which it is placed. E': Fig. 193.—Fibro-neu- roina of Median Nerve.