262 INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS. with little pulses, bad appetites, and weak digestive power, so that they cannot in an emergency be well nourished. “ The old are, much more than others, liable to die of shock, or of mere exhaustion, within a few days after the operation. They bear badly large losses of blood, long exposure to cold, sudden lowering of temperature, loss of food. Large wounds heal in them lazily. Their stomachs, too, are apt to knock-up with what may seem to be no more than necessary food. Many old people are in less peril with a scanty diet than with a full one. Their con- valescence is often prolonged There are some to whom convalescence is more dangerous than disease.” In the aged especial risks attend injuries of the lower limbs, or of the lower part of the trunk, or the back. The necessary long confinement in the recumbent position is very apt to be attended by congestion of the bases of the lungs and a low form of pneumonia. This same position favours the production of jbed-sores. Sex.—Other things being equal, it would appear from statistics that women bear operations and injuries somewhat better than men. This fact may be explained by the circumstance that they are more tolerant of confinement to house and bed, lead less active lives, and adapt themselves more easily to the surroundings of a hospital ward. They are probably more temperate and regular in their lives, and more patient. It is well not to operate, unless compelled, during menstruation. In perhaps the larger number of instances of operations performed during this period, no ill efiects are noticeable; in the minority an unaccountable rise of temperature with often considerable nervous and digestive disturbances are met with. Still more desirable is it that no operation be performed during pregnancy. The special risk incurred in such a case is that attending abortion. Apart from this risk there is little to anticipate, and wounds do well. Ovariotomy and other grave abdominal opera- tions have been performed during the various stages of pregnancy without inducing abortion and without evil results. It appears to be impossible to estimate the risk of miscarriage after a surgical procedure or injury. During lactation, also, operations should be avoided when possible ; the patient is usually in comparatively feeble health, and certainly not in the best condition for a serious call upon the nutritive powers. The robust and the feeble.—Experience shows that the best subject for an opei’ation, or the best result after injury, is not always to be found in the strong lusty man in the prime of life. Such a man has his mode of life suddenly interrupted when he comes under the surgeon’s care. His blood-vessels are full; his viscera have adapted themselves to the exigencies of an active life ; his tissue changes are rapid and extensive, oxygenation is quickly disposing of the gi’eat refuse matter vhich is continually accumu- lating at the very moment when the tide is abruptly checked. The