M* 2 XVII. EICKETS. By GEOEGE HENEY MAELINS, E.E.C.S., Assistant-Surg&m to St. Thomas’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Evelina Hospital for Children. ^Etiology.—Rickets or Rachitis is sometimes called the English disease, in honour of its discoverer, Francis Glisson (1650). Rickets is a general disease, the most striking surgical features of which are seen in the changes occurring in the bony skeleton. It is met with mainly among the children of the poorer classes of large towns, and is essentially a disease of malnutrition, induced by im- proper feeding and exaggerated by imperfect hygienic surroundings. Softness of the bones may be produced experimentally in animals by the exclusion of lime salts from the diet, and well-marked rickets has been observed in lambs where the food of the ewes has been deficient in this element; again, it has been seen in young Hons fed with lean meat without bone, and in young monkeys placed upon a purely vegetable diet (Sutton). In all these instances the disease has been readily cured by the addition of the deficient elements to the food. Heredity plays no part in its occurrence, although it is frequently met with in large families; and here the younger members are the more frequently and severely aflfected. Children suckled by their mothers are rarely attacked; but these may sufier if lactation be unduly prolonged, if the mother be out of health, or become again pregnant while suckHng her child. Hand-feeding is the most prolific source of the disease: patent foods, containing large quantities of starch and flour, and deficient in a proper proportion of animal fat (Cheadle), proteid, and earthy salts, being often employed. Poor milk, skimmed, and thus deprived of its normal fatty element, may produce the disease; again, the develop- ment of an attack is often noticed subsequently to attacks of diarrhoea and vomiting, induced by feeding with undiluted cow’s milk, leading to defective assimilation of the fatty and proteid elements. Syphilis is in no sense a cause of rickets, but as a debilitating disease may perhaps predispose to its occurrence, and also modify in some degree its course. It is almost certain that craniotabes and visceral enlargements occur in both diseases, since the exhibition of