R/EMOBRITAGE. 519 RUCcesHful torsion, but extreme fragility and loss of elasticity of the i-mter coat is a bar, and so also is adhesion of an artery to its sheath, for it prevents the vessel from twisting freely. Veins can be closed by careful torsion as well as arteries. It hflR been sim^ested that torsion should be used for small ai?ei?ranrthe ligature for large vessels, and that the torsion forceps should be twisted off. Both sug- gestions are bad. Torsion is perhaps better adapted for large than for small arteries, because they can be seized more cleanly. INIost certainly the forceps should not be twisted off, for the curled-up knob of the vessel wall is a great security, resembling in its usefulness a firmly adherent external clot. The late changes occurring in a twisted artery are closely like those met with in an aseptic vessel. The thrombus is organised in the way already described, and the vessel converted into a fibrous cord (page 512). The twisted end of the vessel is quickly embedded in “lymph,” and if it is not infective or infected, it is absorbed by the plasma cells, and replaced by cica- tricial tissue over the end of the artery. Exactly similar changes Fig. 145.—Artery closed by Tor- sion, showing the curled-up outer Coat of the Artery forming a twisted Knot over the end of the Artery. A Fig. I'lS.—Au Artery laid open after having been ligatured at a and grasped in Pressure- forceps at n. It shows the division of the inner coats in each place and the similar oifeot produced by the ligature and pressure- forceps. occur in vessels closed by forci- pressure and the cautery. 11. The Hg-atnre of ves- sels is the most important of ail hsemostatic agents. It is employed to occlude arteries in their continuity as well as where wounded. But we shall postpone to a subsequent section the discussion of the special points arising in connection with ligature of arteries in their continuity. (a) The immediate effects.—When a ligature is tied with moderate force, the inner and middle coats of an artery are divided as if cut with a knife, and curl up within the vessel, and the portion of outer coat within the noose is strangled (Fig. 146). In the case of a divided artery tied in a wound, all the vessel beyond the noose is n bloodless, and dies. If the artery be tied with still greater force, the outer coat also is cut through opposite the knot, and if it is a large artery, in all probability hsemorrhage recurs. If the ligature be tied with less force, however, the artery may be occluded without any laceration of its tissue. We shall subsequently see (page 530) that for the permanent obliteration of the artery it is neither necessary nor desirable to divide any of the coats of an artery when ligating it. In the case of a divided artery tied