SAOEO-COGCYGEAL DISEASE. H3o After a longer or shorter interval the cavity becomes septic, and the patient is worn out with hectic fever or cut short by one of the acute wound infections. • v There appears to be a good deal of evidence that this disease is more likely to begin on the borders of the joint than towards its deei)er central portions. And this is fortunate, as regards treatment. The treatment at the present day is far more radical than formerly. We now know that large portions of the articulation, if diseased, may be removed with advantage by operation. In carrying out the latter the incisions should be free, and the aim should be to reach all parts of the diseased area. No definite rules can be laid down for these incisions, but in any case the aim should be to remove by chisel or flushing-gouge every trace of tuberculous material, whether it lie in the bones or soft parts, or in the resulting abscess. The disease should always be thus attacked before any breach of surface and formation of sinuses has taken place, and after removal of the morbid material the wound may be closed without drainage. If by this means union by first intention be secured, the whole process may be arrested without any open sinus. And, even if recurrence take place, a second or even third operation on the same lines may succeed where the first has failed, and the patient be left with a sound bone, and without external opening. At all events, if the latter cannot ultimately be avoided, and a sinus form, it will lead down to a much reduced focus of disease, and, perhaps, only after consolidation has taken place to a large extent, and all extensive abscess formations ha's'e ceased. Working on these lines, I have lately treated a case of exten- sive sacro-iliac disease on both joints combined, with a huge abscess running from side to side in front of the sacrum. This was opened and flushed out, scraped, and at the same time the bone disease was gouged away. Primary union was obtained after the first and second operations; but after the third, sinuses foimed, but led down to a much reduced focus of disease. Ultimately the patient was sent to the country able to walk, but came back with some recurrence. The abscess was again opened, and bone was gouged away, and the whole cavity scraped and flushed. There are still small sinuses, but the patient is daily gaining strength, and there appears every prospect of a favourable teimination before long. When allowed to get up, the pelvis should be supported by a plaster-of-Paris case carefully and closely applied, and carried up as high as the thorax, and as low as the trochanters. Of course, every kind of constitutional treatment suitable to tuberculous disease is carried out by means of tonics and dieting, and prolonged rest for months is enjoined. Disease of the sacro-coccygeal joint.—This may follow on general pysemic infection on injury, or tuberculous infection as a sequel to the latter. There is little or no difficulty in diagnosis in