DISLOCATIONS OF TEE ANKLE. 1021 then seizes the foot and heel, and makes extension, inverting or everting the foot at the same time, as occasion requires (Fig. 423). The flexion of the leg i-elaxes the powerful calf muscles, and it is most important that this position be carefully observed. Anaesthesia is generally advisable, and the parts are wont to I’eturn into position gradually, and not with a distinct snap. The tendo Achillis may be subcutaneously divided in cases of great obstinacy, but this should be avoided if possible. In the dislocation of the foot backwards the surgeon should draw the front of the foot forwai’ds and upwards, while he presses the tibia backwards with the other hand. The leg will then, of course, be thus acutely flexed on the thigh. Great difficulty has been experienced by those surgeons who have had the rare opportunity of treating a dislocation of the foot forwards. The tendo Achillis seems usually to prevent sufficient extension from being exerted to slip the astragalus backwards. The mode of reduction then is to divide this tendon if needful, and make powerful extension from the foot and heel, and when the foot is disengaged, press it backwards. In the dislocation upwards by separation, reductibn has also been found impossible, but a useful limb has ultimately resulted. It is questionable in modern days if this dislocation should be left unreduced. An aseptic excision of the astragalus would probably leave a better foot. In neglected cases of displace- ment at the ankle, excision of the astragalus or amputation may subsequently become needful. So soon as reduction is effected, the parts should be carefully fixed in s^ffints while the leg is still in the flexed position, and the greatest care should be taken that the apparatus is well padded, and that no undue pressure be exercised, so as to cause the damaged skin to slough. The limb should be weU elevated, and cold spirit lotion sedulously employed. Enough prominence has hitherto not been given to the tendency to displacement backwards in many of these cases, when combined with fracture of the malleoH. This is especially apt partially to occur in a dislocation backwards, when, as often happens, a piece of the lower end of the tibia is also broken oflf. As the limb lies on a posterior splint, such a displacement is readily overlooked, and the patient recovers with a disastrous antero-posterior deformity. This backward displacement is largely due to the tension of the tendo Achillis, which structure may need tenotomy; it is best guarded against by the treatment now to be described. I have found the plaster-of-Paris dressing applied with scrupulous care and accuracy better than anything else in the after-treatment of dislocations about the ankle. Only those who have had practical experience of these troublesome injuries know the difficulties encoun- tered in treating tliem with ordinary splints. So soon as the swellino- and extravasation have subsided—say in about ten days—the foot should be held in absolutely correct position by a trustworthy assistant. He sliould see that the foot is at right angles to the leir and that tliere is no “dropping” of the lieel backwards. An anaesthetic will often facilitate and ensure accurate position. A fine