737 COMPLETE FRACTURES. of bleeding, or of bruising at a point which Jias not been directly injured. Fissures of long bones probably heal well. In the skull it is not uncommon to find that sufficient callus has not been thrown out to close the narrow cleft, the edges of which are rounded off and per- haps connected by a delicate bridge here and there. That fissuring of a joint-end renders a contusion of a joint more serious, and opens the way to possible hindrances to complete recovery of movement, is clear. Complete fractures.—In these the bone is completely divided into (a) two or (b) several fragments :—(a) In the first case, the line of fracture may be (1) transverse, (2) oblique, or (3) longitudinal; and into this group fall frac- tures of bony processes. (1) Transverse fractures are those in which the line of fracture is, on the whole, at right angles to the long axis of the bone (Fig. 217); the surfaces are sometimes smooth, more often finely or coarsely toothed. This direction is much commoner than the longitudinal, but not nearly so common as the more or less oblique. Transverse fractures occur chiefly in flat and short bones, in the ribs, in the spongy ends of long bones, and in the shafts of the long bones of children. They are generally due to direct violence bending the bone, but may arise from end to end compression, causing the same result. Displacement of the fragments is less liable to occur than in more oblique fractures, but should it occur in deeply-toothed fractures, it may be impossible to reduce the fragments \vith accu- racy. Close interlocking of the teeth may so limit movement of the fragments as to cause some difficulty in diagnosis. Union occurs readily. (2) Oblique fractures.—The line of fracture crosses the long axis of the bone at an acute angle in any direction. Including, as it does, all fractures between the purely transverse and purely longitudinal, and occurring chiefly in the shafts of long bones, this group is by far the largest. -The best examples are seen in the femur (Fig. 228) and tibia, and are due to bending, produced generally lay indirect violence passing along the length of a bone, or applied at right angles to the shaft, one end being fixed. Y Fig. 207.—A spiral Frac- ture of the right Tibia seen from the Back and outer Side. Two fissures start on the posterior edge some 2 ins. from the malleo- lus ; the spiral winds up across the inner surface (dotted line), then across the outer surface on to the pos- terior aspect; here, some 3 ins. above the starting point, it is joined by the nearly vertical fissure which lies entirely on tlie pos- terior surface. From the point of meeting a fissure 5 ins. long as- cends on the posterior surface and another (dotted line) not quite so long .ascends on the inner surface from tlie spiral fissure. No his- tory. (University Col- lege Sluseum, No. 304.)