973 DISLOG ATI ON S OF THE 8H0ULDEB. the ]umierus; (3) fracture of the surgical neck of the liumerus; (4) fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus; (5) fracture of the neck of the scapula ; and (G) fracture of the great tuberosity. Confusion frequently arises regarding atrophy of the deltoid, especially as this condition may follow a properly reduced dislocation. The mai’ked flattening of the shoulder closely simulates displacement, but the great tuberosity of the humerus will readily be felt beneath the aci’omion projecting in its normal position, and passive motion may be free. Separation of the epiphysis should be susjDected if an apj^arent dislocation of the shoulder be brought to the surgeon in a patient under twenty years of age. The line of separation will be below the great tuberosity, which is part of the upper epiphysis, and m^tains its normal position. There is an abrupt projection in front, below the coracoid process, and on examination and reduction under anesthetics a sort of crepitus is experienced, and the dis- placement is readily reproduced. Such an accident in a young person may be followed by arrest of growth, so the diagnostic distinctions between it and dislocation are of obvious import. In fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus thei’e is crepitus high up in the joint, and if impacted the head will move in the glenoid cavity. In fracture of the neck of the scapula the coracoid process will move with the fragment of scapula. All the symptoms of dislocation will be exactly simulated; but on reduction crepitus will occur, and the coracoid will be observed to move as the scapular fragment is rotated with the humerus. In separation of the greater tuberosity there is _an_ extraordinary appearance of widening aiite- riorly, which is very characteristic. A deep sulcus exists between IheTragments, and erepitus can always be elicited on rubbing the fragments together. The depression below the acromion in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus at first sight simulates disloca- tion, but crepitus is evident, and the depression is not immediately beneath the acromion, but some inches lower. The tuberosity occupies its proper position. Careful examination under ether is absolutely essential in all dubious cases, and this should be done as soon as possible after the accident. {See also page 814.) Treatment of recent dislocation of the shoulder.—If a patient be seen within an hour of the accident, while still, perhaps, pale and collapsed from pain and shock, the surgeon may be able to rejDlace the bone by extension with the heel in the axilla, without autes- thetics. In cases of longer standing and in muscular individuals, deep ether ansesthesia had better be induced. The patient should recline upon a couch with a raised back, or be well propped up with pillows, or placed in an arm-chair. As the subjects of these dis- locations are often muscular and alcoholic individuals, vdth their stomachs full of food, great eare should be exercised in the adminis- tration of an anaesthetic in the sitting posture, and in my iudgment ether should always be selected. The stomaeh may, with advantage be^reviously cleared by an emetic. The muscles should be rendered