719 mono WINQ TOE-NAIL. to a certain extent concealed, by thick unaltered epidermis. If there is any suspicion of such a pigmiented patch, or of the melanotic transformation of a mole, it is by far the wisest plan to resort to the knife. When once the lymphatic glands are involved, or when many secondary nodules have formed in the surrounding tissues, it is too late to expect much benefit from excision. Melanotic tumours, however, vary somewhat in malignancy. Thus I have known a case of melanotic sarcoma-of choroid spread through the sclerotic into the orbit, prove impossible to remove, and six years later (although a black discharge persisted from between the eyelids) there was no sign of secondary growths. As a general rule it may be said that in no form of malignant growth is resort to early and free excision of more importance to the patient than melanotic sarcoma or carcinoma. (See also Art. XXII. page 469.) DiseSiSes of the Hctils.—In the course of severe general eczema or psoriasis the nails are apt to suffer in their nutrition, to become thickened or occasionally to be shed. Less marked dis- turbance in their growth is sometimes met with after severe attacks of fever, such as typhoid. In old. pcoplOj Gspocially if the Ccii'6 of tliG ns^ils bo wholly nG^'lectodj they may grow to an enormous size, becoming curved and of ex- tremely hard consistence. The term onyeho-yrypliosis is then applied and, if much in the way, such hypertrophied nails are best removed. A very troublesome and fairly common affection is iiig'i'O'wiiig* toe~iinii, where the free border of the great toe-nail becomes em- bedded in the soft tissues; this is especially seen at the outer edge of the nail and is usually due to cutting the nail too short, or to lateral boot-pressure. Unhealthy granulation tissue tends to form over the edge of the nail, and there may be ill-smelling purulent discharge. I he condition is, as a rule, exquisitely tender and painful, and may greatly hamper the patient’s movements. Some relief is to be obtained by carefully thinning and scraping down the central part of the nail, by strict cleanliness, and the use of an astringent antiseptic powder to the inflamed part (e.g. equal parts of tannic acid and iodo- torm), and by the frequent insertion under the edge of the nail of a strip of linen or tinfoil. In severe cases which fail to yield to a careful trial of these measures (combined with the wearing of broad shoes oi; boots) an operation is called for. The patient should be ansesthetised (bromide of ethyl or nitrous oxide gas answers admirably), and the affected part of the nail should be cut off right up to the matrix with strong scissors and then pulled out. At the same time the overhanging soft tissues should bo cut away I f rarely necessary to remove more than one- third of the width of the nail. A dry antiseptic dressing should be bandaged on, and the patient should wear a soft slipper until nealmg has occurred. Relapse of the deformity is not very un- mraon and to avoid this it is absolutely necessary for the patient <(0 wear broiMl-toed comfortable boots. parien .