772 INJURIES OF BONES. no reverses being used, and every pains being taken to avoid thick folds and creases—especially over thinly-covered bones, where they are often a source of pain and sores. One bandage at a time is placed upright in the water, and allowed to remain there until all bubbling of air has ceased; it is then turned on to the side, each end is grasped by a hand, and it is lifted out of the water and pressed fairly dry; the end of the bandage is found, and thus it is handed to the surgeon. If the bandage be squeezed by one hand a great deal more plaster escapes. The surgeon applies the bandages lightly from just above the lower to just below the upper edge of the boracic lint, -without reverses, and carefully avoiding the folds which result from the figure-of-8 bandage, as ordinarily used. This lie does by making no endeavour to bandage continuously from below up, but rather allowing the bandage to follow its own bent. So soon as the lint is covered, the tins are placed in position, and caught by the next turns of bandage. Two or three thicknesses are required. j\Iauy now take a little plaster cream, and rub it on the surface; but, with well-prepared bandages it should be unnecessary, and it adds to the weight—a chief objection to plaster. If there be much tendency to displacement, the part should be held in position till the plaster is set j it should be left exposed till dry. Such a sphnt can be cut down fairly easily between two tins with a strong knife, a Key’s saw, or a pair of vine shears. (2) The splints necessary to surround the limb are cut out of house flannel, coarse sackcloth, canvas, or some thick open material, and thoroughly soaked in water; two layers are generally sufficient, tins being placed between. When wet, the sphnts are carefully fitted to the limb. Opposite a convexity they are notched to the necessary depth, and the flaps are fixed in position by a stitch or two j opposite a concavity bits are sewn into the gaps. A thick plaster cream is now prepared by mixing equal parts by measure of plaster and cold water, the plaster being strewn into the water without stirring. In this the sphnts are kneaded, till they have taken up as much as they can hold ; they are then placed in position, pulled qmte smooth, and fixed on with an ordinary or a plaster bandage. This constitutes an immovable sphnt, but division of the bandage along a line of meeting of tlie splints permits their removal and reapplication -with another bandage; the opposite fine of meeting (if there be two) serves as a hinf^e. Another method, which is highly recommended, is to build up first one splint and then the other of long wisps of tow soaked in the cream; other materials may be similarly used. In one or other of the above ways, single shaped splints may be moulded to any part. Some apply plaster of Paris directly over well-greased skin, others soak only the outer layer and rub cream into the outer surface of the inner. In slight fractures of the lower limb treated among out-patients, the patient’s long stocking makes a comfortable covering for the limb, especially if it be woollen. A covering similar to the woollen vest generally used under Sayre’s corset can often be touu for other parts.