9!)6 niSLOGATlONS. primarily downwards. Direct backward dislocations are generally associated with fracture of the rim of the acetabulum ; and that this displacement can take place without fracture is only maintained by scanty pathological proof, and by clinical observation, which, without dissection, may prove erroneous. Primary direct dorsal dislocation above the tendon of the obturator internus cannot occur without fracture, since here the head of the bone encounters the deep rim of the acetabulum, and part of the strongest portion of the capsule. Obstiiclcs to icdHCtioii, cs- l»ccially in backward disloca- tions.—The upper and anterior part of the capsule being of extreme power, is rendered tense on exten- sion, but is relaxed on flexion. The tension of the untorn part of the capsurenS~mne~Dt ;reat~oBstacles Tri drawing theTie^ of the femur back to the acetabulum. A flap of torn capsule frequently becomes in- terposed between the acetabulum and the head of the femur. The head of the bone being thrust through or among the short rotator muscles, is often tightly girt by them and by tendinous fibres. The tendon of the obturator externus, if not ruptured, may bind down the neck of the femur like a cord, and the great sciatic nerve also may be entangled. All such structures as these are tightened iiT direct extension, amdr^ieat force is^needfuFto “overcome their resist- ance,” or, in other words, to tear, and pull the head of the bone from amongst them. Hence the import- ance of free flexion to relax such important resistant structures as those enumerated. Condition of the soft pacts in backward dislocations of the hip.—It has already been pointed out that the rent or tne capsule is inferiorly near the transverse notch. The tear is usually an extensive one, and extends towards the posterior surtace of tlie femoral neck, the capsule being torn from_tl^emw ^ and not from the acetabulum, where' it is comparatTvay strong, ihe short rotator muscles, the obturators, quadratus, the gemelb, and py-rifdrmis are torn or violently stretched. The tendon of the obturator internus usually remains intact, but in marked c^es all these muscles may be completely lacerated. The pectmeus is gen^ rally torn, the psoas and iliacus are greatly stretched. Hie ^ e. sciatic nerve may be contused or even lacerated, and is frequen . y -Dislocation of the Femur backwards.