DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 580 may be used in the same cases as excision and in some where excision cannot be practised. (3) Ligature of the feeding vessels alone has never yet been successful. When combined with division of the soft parts between the ligatured arteries, it has, in a few cases, effected a cure. It generally fails, owing to the presence of arteries entering the aneurysm on its deep surface. It may be employed in cases where digital com- pression of the arteries to be tied entirely arrests the pulsation in the swelling. (4) Ligature of the main artery of the part.—A cirsoid aneurysm of the scalp, too large and diffuse for excision or ligature, may be treated by simultaneous ligature of the two external carotid arteries, combined, if necessary, with ligature of the frontal and supraorbital branches of the ophthalmic artery. The common carotid artery should not be ligatured for such a case. (5) Electrolysis is strongly recommended by some authorities and has been advocated as “the only justifiable method of treatment.” A strong current of from 150 to 200 milliamperes is required. The needles passed into the vessels are attached to the positive pole, and a large surface negative electrode is placed in contact with the back or some other indifferent part of the body. The operation generally has to be repeated. An anaesthetic is required. (6) Injection of perchloride of iron has been practised, especially by Continental surgeons, with considerable success. A temporary ligature is thrown around the tumour while the coagulating fluid is injected and until the clot is firm. (7) Amputation has been called for in cases of haemorrhage from cirsoid aneurysm of a limb. NsevUS.—Naevi are of two kinds, “ simple ” and “ cavernous.” A simple iisevus is a collection of minute vessels bound together by a small amount of connective tissue. If the vessels are arte- rioles, the nsevus is of a bright red colour, and is called “ arterial.” If they are venules, it is of a blue colour, and is called “venous.” Intermediate tints between the two extremes are met with. Simple naevi are sometimes called “ capillary.” A cavernous iiaivus or erectile tumour, sometimes called also a venous ncevus, is formed of a series of intercommunicating spaces lined with endothelium similar to that of veins, embedded in flbrous tissue, and fat. Small arteries open into these spaces, and larger veins carry the blood away. The blood spaces are not surrounded by proper vessel-walls. A thin fibrous capsule often encloses the nsevus. jUtioIogy.—Nothing is definitely known of the cause of naevus. Many naevi are congenital; many others are first noticed ^ shortly after birth. Others appear to originate about puberty and in some instances their development follows iipon an injury. Distribution and varieties.—ncevi are chiefly met with in the superficial layers of the skin, and particulai’ly on the scalp, face, back, and chest. They are also found on mucou.s