763 UNION OF FE AG TURF. formation of callus ; and though it is impossible to demonstrate the multiplication of its cells, or to trace their progeny, yet the view above stated receives support from all observations on repair of tissues since Senftleben’s experiments on the corneal cells, for all tend to show that the cell-elements of a tissue efiect its final and perfect repair. Cohnheim, Maas, and others, on the other hand, regard the process of bone-repair as inflammatory, and the cells in callus as leucocytes. There can be little doubt but that the early infiltration is inflam- matory, and the cells chiefly leucocytes; but where is the evidence that leucocytes can foi’m bone, or even the cartilage met with in callus 1 No scar, away from bone, shows such changes, whereas a scar in bone ossifies with practical constancy. To talk of the “ influence of the mother tissue ” does not render things clearer; there is no reason to tliink that bone can exert an influence save through its cells, which have throughout life the power of selecting lime salts from the nutrient fluid around them, and of laying them down in the form of bone. It is, therefore, ct priori likely that the essential cells of callus are of medullary origin. The formation of callus seems clearly to depend upon irritation ; it develops very sparingly in fissures of the skull, but largely in extensive injuries, with much displacement, much mobility (ribs), and much septic irritation (compound cases). The formation of cartilage in callus has always been connected by English pathologists with mobility; it occurs in the ribs, and occasionally in other simple fractures of man, and in most fractures in animals. The irritation of suppuration does not tend to the formation of cartilage. But v. Winiwarter in the 15 th edition of Billroth’s “ Pathology ” describes the formation of cartilage in simple fractures in man as usual, and so also do Cornil and Ranviei in their “ Pathological Histology.” In the absence of direct state- ments it is always difficult to determine how far Continental views are based upon observations on animals. Cornil and Banvier, however, base their statement as to man upon the fact that they have always found cartilage in the callus of a considerable number of simple fractures due to senile atrophy, which they have examined. Exceptional mobility would very likely have been present in these cases, and, if it was, they would not prove the rule. The time required for union of various bones.—This varies a good deal. The following times may be taken as averages. They will not enable us to dispense with a careful examination before per- mitting use of a limb wliich has been fractured, or with the need for caution in beginning to make use of the part. Phalanges are said to require 2 to 3 weeks; metacarpal, carpal, metatarsal, tarsal bones, and ribs, 3 to 4 weeks; clavicle, fore-arm bones, and fibula, 5 weeks; humerus and tibia, 6 to 7 weeks ; both leg bones, 8 weeks; femur, 10 to 12 weeks. By these times the bones mentioned are generally, after simple uncomplicated fractures, united