145 DIABETIC GANGB.ENE. Ultimately, however, the circulation improves very much, and, as a rule as a final result, only a very small dry slough separates. The whole process is very slow, and takes from the commencement of the o-aimrene to the separation of the slough from twenty days to ten months—on an average, three or four months. This disease is very apt to recur, more especially during the winter season. _ As to treatment, the first essential is to remedy any uterine trouble which may be present, and to improve the general condition of the patient’s health. As regards local treatment, chief dependence is placed on the employment of warmth, keeping the fingers m warm baths for some hours, and afterwards wrapping them up in warm cotton wooL Some say that they also obtain benefit from placing the hand in electric baths. If sloughing be likely to take place, 1)hen the treatment must be carried out on the ordinary lines, and antiseptic dressings must be employed. In no case is amputa- tion necessary. id) Oangi ene due to certain general causes.—Of these, I need only mention three, namely, gangrene in connection with diabetes, gangrene after acute fevers,_ and gangrene _ following the use of ergot, and of these, gangrene in connection with diabetes is much the most important. There are two modes in which diabetes may be related to gan- grene : (1) we may have the death of the part directly dependent on the presence of diabetes, or (2) we may have ga,ngrene from some other cause taking place in a patient who is diabetic. The term diabetic gangrene is limited to the gangrene which is more or less directly dependent on diabetes. In cases where gangrene occurs in diabetic subjects, the course of the disease is generally very markedly modified in that it spreads with greater rapidity, there is more inflammation around the gangrenous part, and the gangrene, though often dry in the first instance, tends to become moist. As to the pathology of gangrene dependent on diabetes, it is found that in these circumstances the vessels have become thickened, owing to the occurrence in them of endarteritis \ and this is explained by the fact of the sugar or its precedent chemical substance circulating in the blood and causing irritation of the lining membrane of the vessels. The second effect of diabetes in the pro- duction of gangrene is that the tissues of the diabetic individual are weak and less able to resist injury than healthy tissues, and are more especially less able to resist the entrance of pyogenic organisms, which appear to grow with special rapidity and virulence in the tissues of such persons. A third point which is stated by some is tliat in diabetics the innervation of the part is interfered with, as the result of central nervous disku’bance. The characteristic of the diabetic gangi’ene is that it is more acute in its progress than other non-specific forms of gangrene not due to immediate obstruction of the circulation, and that it is accompanied by an excessive amount of inflammation, and results in extensive sloughing of the skin. It is practically always a moist