190 TETANUS. draught, or that he is suffering from a slight attack of rheumatism. The muscles of mastication are involved at an early stage. The con- tracted temporals and masseters stand out in bold relief, and the jaws are tightly clenched. This very constant symptom has given rise to the popular name of the disease—“ lockjaw.” The scientific designation of this symptom is trismus. At first the spasm is incomplete, and can be increased voluntarily; but it afterwards increases, and at times the muscular spasms clash the teeth violently together, causing them to fracture, and sometimes lacei’ating the tongue or cheeks. The symptoms may begin with difficulty in swallowing, as in the case of a man who cut the tip of his finger off with a pair of shears. This symptom is due to spasm of the muscles of the fauces and pharynx. When the tetanic spasms affect the muscles of expression, a characteristic feature of the disease, the risus sardonicus, is produced. In this, as Sir Thomas Watson forcibly says, “The forehead is corrugated and the brow knit, the orbicular muscle of the eye rigid, the eyeball motionless and staring, the nostril spread, the corners of the mouth are drawn back, the set-teeth exposed, and all the features fixed in a ghastly grin.” When the tetanic conti-actions seize the muscles of the trunk, those of the abdomen and back suffer most. The powerful extensors of the back may act with such violence that the trunk becomes rigid and is thrown from the bed with the back arched and the abdomen projected into the air, so that the patient is supported upon his head and his heels. This condition is called opisthotonos. The abdominal muscles are nearly always contracted in tetanus, and usually at an early stage. Their rigidity gives a peculiar board-like feeling to the abdomen, which is very characteristic. When violent clonic spasms supervene upon the tonic contraction of the abdominal muscles the trunk may be bent forwards, so that the chin touches the knees. This condition, which is the reverse of opisthotonos, is called emprosthotonos. The diaphragm and the other muscles of ordinary and of extraordinary respiration may all undergo spasmodic contractions, and i-espiration becomes impossible, the chest being held as if in a vice (^V atson). Sometimes the body is bent to one side by the muscular contractions. This is one of the rarer manifestations, and is called pleurosihotonos. Should the muscular .spasms balance one another, so that the body remains stiff and rigid like a statue, the condition is called orthotonos. The muscles of the limbs seldom escape. Their contractions are sometimes so violent that the muscles are torn across, and the thigh bone even has been broken. As a rule, the limbs are extended, with stiffness of the joints, those nearest the trunk being more stiff than the others. Oftentimes the hands and feet are quite unaffected although I have seen the hands tightly clenched. ^Vhen many groups” of muscles ai-e implicated at once the whole body is con- vulsed. These tetanic convulsions precede the fatal ending. In tetanus produced experimentally in animals, the spasms often begin in the groups of muscles nearest the point of inoculation.