822 INJUBJE8 OF BONES. be added that cubitum valgum and varum seem to interfere little with the use of the limb, though they might be a bar to entering the public service. There is probably truth on both sides. The displace- ment in each case must be studied, and the position found in which it will be most perfectly reduced. In doubtful cases flexion to 90® is probably the best position. When a fracture has been compli- cated by a backward dislocation of the fore-arm bones, a position of sufficient flexion to prevent risk of recurrent dislocation must be employed. With a low transverse fracture, full flexion, advocated by some, may produce forward displacement. Flexion is best maintained by a posterior gutter splint of plaster of Paris or tin bracketed at the elbow (Fig. 258), a short anterior being aj)plied to the arm if there is much projection forwards ; the two are bandaged together and weight-extension in the line of the humerus may be added during the early days if tendency to shortening Ls marked. The fore-arm should be in the mid-position, so as to render tense neither the superficial flexors nor the extensors. The mainten- ance of flexion by an internal or external angular wooden splint is likely to cause a lateral displacement. Massage and movements should be practised as soon as possible without causing pain or displacement. In fractures of the epicondyles, and probably of the trochlea or capitellum, it would be possible if the fragment could be got into good position to fix it by means of an aseptic acupressure pin driven through it into the sound bone beyond; the pin to be removed in two to three weeks. In compound cases the treatment is usual. A stiff though strong elbow is less useful than a movable but weaker joint; con- sequently, when the injury seems to threaten ankylosis, the question of primary excision must be considered, and should certainly be undertaken in much comminuted cases: it consists in picking out fragments and smoothing corners. In separations of the epiphysis the end of an irreducible shaft has been removed with good result. Fractures of the bones of the fore-arm.—Either ulna or radius may be broken alone, or both bones may be broken together. Fracture of the olecranon (1 to 2 per cent.) is the most important injury of the ulna, making up about one-third of the fractures of the ulna alone. Fracture of the olecranon is generally due to a fall or blow upon the elbow; as, however, it is unusual to find marks of violence on the skin of the part, it is probable that muscular action plays an important part and breaks the olecranon across the trochlea when the hand comes upon the ground. Frac- tures from pure muscular action are rare, and the fragment tom oft is small. The tip of the process may be detached without opening the joint; but almost always the fragment encroaches on the carti- lage-covered surface, sometimes detaching the whole process above the coronoid. , The fragment is drawn up more or less according as its coverings are more or less torn through, and this is effected chiefly