HEMOPHILIA AFFECTING JOINTS. 1073 When the body or bodies have been removed, the opening should be accurately closed from end to end, all excess of synovium having first been squeezed out. No drainage is required in cases operated on with strict asepsis. The treatment of loose semi-lunar cartilage which has slipped in between the surfaces of tibia and femur is not so easy a matter as in the last case. Sometimes, it is true, we may achieve a practical cure by rest and careful support of the joint for long periods, while at the same time the patient is generally strengthened by tonics and fresh air, and the joint locally by cold douches. For it is a well-known fact that this displacement is usually met with in ansemic individuals of slack fibre. But these means are frequently inadequate to prevent recurrence of the condition, and with each recurrence the tendency to the reproduction of the trouble is greater. Indeed, in some in- stances where one of the semi-lunar cartilages has slipped bodily in between the condyles and lies crumpled up there, as was the case in the joint from which Fig. 420 is drawn, nothing short of opening the joint and readjusting the cartilage would have any chance of success. But even in less marked instances of displacement the fre- quent recurrence of pain and synovitis in spite of supports of various kinds is often felt by the patient to justify liim in running the small risk of having the fibro-cartilage secured in its normal position by operation. When the latter is determined on, of course every pre- caution is taken to secure perfect asepsis round the field of operation. The patient is also kept at rest for some days, especially if traces of synovitis remain from one of the attacks. Indeed, until all trace of the latter has gone, no operation should be undertaken. Then an incision running obliquely across the line of the displaced body is made through all the structures overlying its outer boi'der. When this is exposed it is caught up with three or four stitches, and secured to the capsule of the joint in its normal position. If it be totally displaced, it is necessary to open the joint more freely, then, by alternate flexion and extension, the crumpled cartilage may be brought into its normal position, and be secured as just described. No drainage is required, and the skin wound is completely closed by sutures at once, the limb being put up on a back-splint until healing is complete. H^xMOPHILIA AFFECTING JOINTS. Hsemojihilia, for the detailed description of which the reader is referred to page 376, is, without doubt, at times the cause of serious joint disease. When affecting the joints, it is seen in the form of effusion of a large amount of blood into the synovial sac following injuries to the part, often of a very trifling character. The first effect of this effusion is simple distension of the pouches of the joint with Wood, the symptoms of which have already been considered. (See Hicmarthi-us, page 1034). Certain secondary changes, however, are also observed m some cases, at all events, which may interfere with