SYMPTOMS. 65 1118.1x1 co8^ul8t6(i Gxud8t/ioxi froiu tliG IiIoocI-vgssgISj 81ld in p81 tj 8ls0j lar"G luimbGrs of inflammatory cgIIs. At the margin, on the other hand, the cause of the swelling is the presence of a serous fluid in the tissues, which is readily driven along the interstices of the tissue under pressure by the finger. Lastly, as regards the pain. This varies in character and degree, according to the seat of the inflammation. It is least where the inflammation occurs in loose cellular tissue; it is greatest where fascijB and other dense tissues which do not readily yield to pres- sure are affected. This pain is of a throbbing character, and is much worse when the part is allowed to hang down, that is to say, when the distension of the blood-vessels is increased. It is mainly due to the pressure of the distended blood-vessels on the nerves of the part, these nerves being probably also themselves the seat of inflammatory changes. (6) General syniptonis.—A patient who is suffering from acute inflammation also presents, in most cases, certain constitu- tional symptoms, varying in degree and in character according to the extent of the inflammation, and according to the causes which have set it up. In the most ordinary or sthenic form of inflammatory fever, the patient complains of headache, his eyes are suffused, there is more or less complete loss of appetite, the tongue is furred, white and moist, the bowels are constipated, the urine is scanty and high- coloured, and the skin is dry. The temperature rises rapidly at the commencement of the inflammation, and on an average attains a height of about 103° F., and for three or four days this temperature of between 102° and 103° is maintained in cases where one has to do with a somewhat extensive, but not particularly dangerous, form of inflammation. Where the inflammation has gone on to suppu- ration, the temperatui’e not uncommonly begins to fall or becomes oscillating, and, in any ca.se, this fall takes place when the inflamma- tion subsides. The pulse-rate is also increased, varying usually from 100 to 108, and the pulse is full, not easily compressible, and regular. In some cases where the inflammatory fever is high, or where the inflammation attacks the head, there may be delirium, which is generally of a more or less violent character, the patient shouting and tossing about. This is the ordinary type of fever in cases that are not of a very serious nature, but in certain forms of inflammation the general symptoms assume a much graver character, indicating very grave depression of the patient’s vitality. This form of inflammatory fever, which is spoken of as asthenic fever, or a typhoid state, may be present from the commencement, but most usually is preceded for a day or two by the sthenic type, which I have just described. In this asthenic form the temperature is higher and somewhat oscillating, the pulse, instead of being full and bounding, is soft, thready, easily compressible, and numbers from 120 to 150 the minute. The tongue, instead of being moist and white, is brown and dry. Delirium is almost always present, and is