172 PYMMIA. rare in childhood, and hardly occurs during the first five years of life. It is commonest betwixt the ages of sixteen and thirty. Conditions of occurrence.—Pyemia is met with as a complica^ tion of any wounds and breaches of surface which are exposed to infection, and of any form of sepsis and suppuration. It has occurred during suppuration tollowing fractures, injui’ies to joints and serous sacs, burns, scalds, and frost-bite, during the course of cystitis, pro- statitis, pyelitis, dysentery, gangrene, osteomyelitis, erysipelas, diph- theria, small-pox, scarlatina, and other diseases. Pyaemia is a not infrequent complication of parturition. As a rule, the way by which the bacteria enter is quite obvious. Sometimes, however, the point of inoculation is difficult to find, being situated in the middle ear, in the mouth, pharynx, or oesophagus, in the rectum or alimen- tary tract, or about the gall bladder. In some cases the lesion may have healed before the patient came under observation, or may have been so trivial as to have escaped notice. The name of “ idiopathic pyaemia ” has been applied in the above circumstances. Such a term, however, does not imply that the disease differs from the ordinary type, beyond that the seat of inoculation is obscure or overlooked. The same remark applies to the expression “ spon- taneous pyaemia,” which is sometimes applied to cases in which the mode of infection is not known. The differentiation of pyaemia into acute and chronic rests upon a sound clinical basis. As a rule, pyaemia is fatal in a few days, but cases are met with in which it lasts months or even years, all the clinical symptoms being the same as in acute cases, but less severe and more prolonged. The infecting micro-organisms.—In pure pyaemia it is probable that the infecting micro- organisms are always the pyogenic cocci (page 25). It is not accurately known which kind is the most _ frequent. In Senn's summary of the investigations of Eosenbach, Pa.lowsky, B«ser. and Schuller 69 c^es_ot ar. mentoned Fig. 28.—Streptococcus Pyogenes, growing from a case of cellu- litis. (From a micro- pliotograph by Mr. Oosens.) > «• • A* ••*.* vtfi* • .V! § Fig. 29.—Staphylococcus Fyogenes Aureus, grown from pus upon agar-agar. (From a micro-photograph by Mr. Cosens.) In all of these cases either the blood, pus, or in aii 01 biiose cn&ca ciijiicx ^. 1 1 • were examined, and streptococci were found in 37, , 23 a mixed infection of staphylococci and streptococci in 5, a Staphylococcus aureus alone in 4. The streptococcus is the same ^ tha? ordinarily met with in the diffuse suppurations espgially m cellulitis, and is the Streptococcus pyogenes (^ig- 28). However there is now little doubt but that more than one kind of streptococcus has hitherto been included under this term. The staphylococcus found in pyaemia is usually the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (^ig- -9). and^Lis is occasionally mixed with Staphylococcus pyogenes albus.