-L, ).y A CHRONIC ABSCESS. 95 of the acute attacks, or abscesses may arise on the opposite side or in the loin. As the result of this continued suppuration, the patient rapidly loses o-round, becomes emaciated, and suffers from hectic fever. Hectic feverin fact, is nothing more or less than chronic septicajmia, and it only occurs in cases where sepsis is present. Its symptoms consist in the first place in certain peculiarities of the temperature, the evening temperature being two or three degrees higher than the morning, which is very often normal; at the same time the patient wastes, his face is flushed—especially over the malar bones—there are profuse night sweats, and the appetite becomes impaired. After this condition of hectic fever or chronic septicajmia has lasted for some time, a condition which is termed amyloid degenera- tion occurs in various parts, more especially in the liver, spleen, kid- neys, and intestines. This amyloid degeneration begins in the walls of the smaller arteries, which lose their definite cellular structure and be- come converted into a peculiar structureless substance which pre- sents certain definite reactions to staining reagents. Thus, with Fig. 18.—Section of a amnll Chronic Abscess, showing the central Cavity surrounded by a very ragged and caseating wall (ii). Outside that is the inflamed part and cellular tissue (b). iodine, the parts which are in a state of degeneration become dark brown as compared with the yellow stain- ing of the rest of the tissues. Or again, on staining with ordinary commercial gentian violet, the parts which are the seat of amyloid de- generation come out a pink colour as compared with the bluish violet stain of the rest of the tissues. xVmyloid degeneration, though beginning in the walls of the vessels, seems after a time to extend into and affect the tissues around. The result of this condition is marked enlargement of the organs which are the seat of the degeneration, the liver more especially becoming very much increased in size and also in weight; the spleen becoming also enlarged, and on section presenting the appearance of what is termed the “ sago ” spleen, small, hardish, sago-like granules being scattered throughout the substance of the organ. In the kidneys, the vessels first affected are chiefly those in the glomeruli; and in the intestine, the vessels in the villi. The cause of this degeneration has been variously explained, the majority of pathologists up till recently attributing it to changes in the constitution of the blood from the continued loss of pus, more especially loss of the alkaline and potassium constituents of the