DISEASES OF THE JAWS. 940 it by means of a perforation through the canine fossa before resorting to extirpation. In all cases where there is doubt as to the nature of the tumour, cut into it before proceeding to cut it out. Results.—The effects of treatment in the case of encapsuled tumours are very gratifying, and with care many tumours can be enucleated from within the mouth, and leave no external scar or disfigurement—a matter of especial importance in the case of females. In sarcomata and epithelioma the results of excision are not encouraging. Patients recover, as a rule, easily enough, even after operations of appalling magnitude; but the disease quickly recurs, and may demand repeated operations. Although operation in these cases offers no prospect of permanent cure, it nevertheless frees the patient from pain, relieves him of a foul and disgusting mass, and in many instances not only makes life fairly comfortable, but actually prolongs it. In the case of myeloid sarcomata life may be prolonged many years by operation, and in many instances the benefit is permanent. the TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR joint The diseases of this joint are : acute arthritis, chronic arthrit^, enlargement of the condyle and neck of the mandible, and anchylosis. Acute arthritis.—This is occasionally due to traumatism, but more frequently occurs as a sequel to the exanthemata, especially scarlet fever, and as a sequel of rheumatic fever. It is more common in children than in adults. _ The symptoms are those common to acute innammation oi ioints They are local pain, swelling, and redness. The pain is increased by movement of the joint and by pressure. Febrile symptoms are present. Should the changes proceed to suppuration, the pus may point immediately over the joint, or in children find its way into the external auditory meatus through the foramen in the tympanic plate, and simulate otorrhoea. Exceptionally, the condyle dies, and the necrosis may involve the neck and outer surface of the ramus of the Treatment.—In the early stage rest for the joint by interdicting speech, and supporting the chin by a soft bandage tied around the head. The patient should be kept on liquid diet. Should the condyle necrose, it will require excision. 9 P.brnTiir arthritis.—This is a somewhat unusual disease, and, like iteSritt o?„ther joints, is incidental to advanced life. The disease may be unilateral or bilateral. The inter-articular disc and the articulL cartilage gradually disappear, the condyle, and less frequently the glenoid fossa undergo erosion, and the synovial membrane becomes villous. Occasionally the margins of the fossa become lipped, and processes of bone form around the borders of the condyle, m^^ority cases the patients complain of achmg m