TEE TUBERCULOUS INDIVIDUAL. 355 liberally distributed. The more closely human beings are packed together the more common may the bacillus be expected to be. ^ In spTte of the very general difl’usion of the bacillus in our midst, it is remarkable that tuberculosis, although a comrnon affection enough, is by no means common to all men. Some individuals are more ex- posed to infection than others, it is true ; but that does not explain the distribution of the disease. Were the seed alone the necessary thin", then aU the nurses in hospitals for consumption should become tubercular, and from such institutions tuberculosis should spread as from a centre. Tuberculous disease, however, does not spread in this way, or only in a few very rare accidental instances, which have been already alluded to. It is evident that the soil is of much more importance than the seed—that there must be a large proportion of a population who are practically non-inoculable, while there is a proportion whose bodies form a suitable medium in which the bacillus can grow. The tuberculous individual is the one whose tissues form a suitable soil for the development of the bacillus. The non-tuberculous in- dividual is the one in whose tissues this micro-organism cannot obtain a hold, it being assumed that both are equally exposed to infection. Tuberculous disease may be acquired, but it cannot be inherited; that is to say, the parent cannot hand down to its offspring the tuberculous process in its complete condition with its bacilli, its tubercles, and its caseating districts. What the parent can un- fortunately transmit to its offspring is a body whose tissues form a suitable soil for the development of the bacillus, should that microbe ever reach it in sufficient strength. It is only in this sense that tuberculosis can be said to be inherited. What is inherited as a matter of fact, is not a disease, but a predisposition. In a large number of tuberculous persons this inheritance is marked. One or both parents have died of phthisis, or they are themselves sound, but there is phthisis in other members of the family; or in the same family there is a history of enlarged glands in the neck, of joint disease, or of bone affections. On the other hand, the state of body needed to foi’m a suitable soil for the bacillus may be acquired. This is well seen in what is known as “ penitentiary ” or “ workhouse ” tuberculosis. A number of children find their way to these institutions. Their parents may have been entirely free from tuberculosis, although possibly not perfect in health in other respects. The children are often brought up under imhygienic conditions, with insufficient exercise, insufficient sunlight, insufficient air, and insufficient food. A small proportion of them become tuberculous for no other reason than that their surroundings during the period of growth have been such as to render their tissues a favourable soil for the bacillus of tubercle. Had they been placed in happier circumstances, their bodies would very possibly have remained an unsuitable medium for the growth of this micro-organism, w 2