193 DIAGNOSIS. met with in other infective diseases. Perliaps a more careful record would show that they occur oftener than is suspected. ^ When the sweating is very profuse, the quantity of urine is diminished, and inability to swallow liquids brings about the same result. Owing to spasm of the compressor ui'ethrte and the rigidity of the abdominal muscles, there may be retention of urine. It is important, therefore, that the state of the bladder be always ascertained. Obstinate constipation is constant in tetanus. The tongue is foul and the bowels refuse to act for days together. The constipation cannot be altogether explained by attributing it to the condition of the expiratory muscles or to spasm of the sphincter. It is seen at the beginning of an attack, and long before those muscles are in- volved. Ordinary mild purgatives are powerless to overcome it, and such drugs as croton oil do not always act, unless in full doses. The motions are of a dark colour, and sometimes abominably foetid. Diagnosis of tetanus.—The differential diagnosis of traumatic tetanus ought to offer few difficulties. (1) Trismus, and even opisthotonos, are sometimes simulated by hysterical females. However, the other features of the disease are wanting, and an ansesthetic at once puts any doubt at rest. The im- paction of a wisdom tooth, or inflammatory affection of the jaws, may also cause a spurious kind of trismus. The finger would promptly detect this occurrence. The retraction of the head is much alike both in tetanus and in cerebro-spinal meningitis. The cephalalgia, high temperature, vomiting, optic neuritis, paralysis, stupor and coma which accompany the latter disease suffice for its discrimination. (2) It has been already mentioned that there is a resemblance betwixt tetanus and hydrophobia; but in hydrophobia there is no trismus, and in the intervals between the convulsions there is a complete absence of spasm. (3) In strychnia poisoning the convulsions are tetanic in char- acter, and there may be pronounced opisthotonos, with spasms of the muscles of respiration. The suddenness of the onset of the muscular spasms, the rapidity with which they become general, the absence of muscular rigidity during the intervals, the discovery of strychnia and brucia in the urine, the rapidity with which death or recovery occurs, and spasm of the muscles of the hands (Fagge), may all be adduced as aids to differential diagnosis. (4) Tetany is dealt with on page 200. Prognosis of tetanus.—The prognosis of tetanus is most un- favourable. At Guy’s Hospital 72 cases were treated between 1825 and 1857, inclu.sive, and 60 of them died. At' St. Bartholomevv’s Hospital 31 cases were treated between 1878 and 1893, inclusive, and ot these 20 died. It is also to be noted that nearly all the cases which recover are either chronic or “idiopathic.” The so-called idiopathic tetanus seems less fatal and more chronic than traumatic tetanus. For obvious reasons the first class has hitherto been admitted into the medical wards, and I find that at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, out of eight such cases, five recovered; H