941 CLOSURE OF THE JAWS. the joint, a creaking sensation on movement, and are occasionally annoyed by partial dislocation when the mouth is widely opened. This condition is by no means uncommon in thin delicate women after middle life. _ • Treatment.—Mild counter-irritants to the joints are sometimes beneScial. Internal remedies are of no avail. 3. Enlargement of the condyle and neck of the mandible. This is a somewhat rare condition, but it produces unmistakable distortion of the face. From the few examples which have been examined—post-mortem, or after removal by operation—the changes in the condyle are those characteristic of chronic (osteo-) arthritis. In severe cases it has been found necessary to excise the condyle and its neck. 4. Closure of the jaws. — This condition presents two varieties : (1) Spasmodic and (2) organic. Spasmodic closm’e of the jaws is sometimes induced in consequence of irritation of the mandibular division of the fifth cranial nerve, leading to refiex contraction of the muscles of mastication. This condition is sometimes called trismus, and is occasionally due to the impaction of a wisdom tooth. It is important to bear this in mind, as the discovery and removal of the tooth at once brings about a cessation of the symptoms. Trismus is not infrequently simulated in hysterical women. Organic closure of the jaws is brought about in the following ways: anchylosis of the temporo-mandibular joint, contractions due to cicatrices, and defective development of the mandible. Anchylosis.—This may be due to adhesions the I’esult of acute arthritis. Anchylosis has followed fracture of the base of the skull, the presiimption being that the fracture implicated the glenoid fossa. The condition has not been demonstrated post-mortem. Cicatricial contraction—This may follow sloughing of the buccal mucous membrane due to cancrum oris, or to scars on the cutaneous surface of the cheek, the results of extensive burns, or upon the neck and front of the thorax, in very severe cases of lupus, inflammatory infiltrations of the masseter, and operation on the face for epithelioma, rodent ulcer, gunshot injuries, and the hke. DEFECTIVE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MANDIBLE. Individuals occasionally come under observation, complaining of inability to separate the jaws. On examining them the jaws will be found so firmly closed, that in many cases food can only be introduced into the moutli in a state of fine subdivision, and in severe cases through a gap due to loss of two or more incisor teeth. On examination no disease of the mandible or temporo-mandibular joint can be detected, but what strikes the surgeon most is the stunted character of the mandible. This produces a peculiar appearance, owing to the fact that the face above the level of the mouth corresponds in development to the age and stature of the