FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 817 Tlio special complication of fractures of the sliaft is primary injury to nerves or their later involvement in callus, the musculo- spiral being that which suffers in most cases. Treatmtnt.—Rest in bed on Stromeyer’s or an ordinary cushion, and ice, if the injury have been severe. When swelling is subsiding, or at once in the slighter cases, apply three or four short padded splints of Gooch’s material round the arm, and secure them by a web- bing band buckled around them above and below the frac- ture. If they must be firmly applied, the parts below must be The hand bandaged. is slung. If extension be required, an • out- side or inside angular splint (with a ring pad over the epicondyle) should be substituted for one of the above, fixed to the fore-arm by bandage, and exten- sion should then be made, as shown in Fig. 254, until shortening is removed ; the buckles should then be tightened. Frac- tures so high that no satisfactory hold above the fracture can be obtained by the upper strap are best treated like fractures of the surgical neck. Fig. 254.—Treatment of Fracture of the Shaft of the Hume- rus hy internal angular and short side Splints. The hand and fore-arm are bandaged; the splints are buckled loosely round tlie arm ; extension is being made from the elbow, whilst a towel held by an assistant forms a point of counter-extension ; the sui-geon tests the result with a tape. Pseudarthrosis is commoner in the humerus than in any other long bone, especially in the middle third (Fig. 229). Fractures of the lower end of the humerus. —These injuries are very frequent in the first and second decennia; if Bruns’s statement, based on 4,000 hospital cases, may be trusted, thev are comparatively rare after forty. There are several types de- scribed. (1) The supra-condyloid ; (2) separation of the whole lower epiphysis; (.3) the T-fracture and comminuted fractures ; (4) frac- ture of the capitellum or of the trochlea ; (5) fracture of the internal or external epicondyle or separation of the corresponding epiphysis.