INJURIES OF BONES. 748 the distal portion of a broken limb tends to dangle from the upper when the latter is raised. It is gravity which causes eversion in fractvire of the thigh. (5) External force. Unskilful lifting or handling of the part, or the bearing of weight on a broken limb may produce disastrous results, protrusion of a fragment through the skin being common. Faulty apparatus used in the treatment is another common cause ; thus the tendency of all leg splints, with a vertical foot-piece, is to hold the foot vertical while the upper fragment rotates out. The tendency of Liston’s long splint is to produce angular deformity of the femur outwards, or forwards and outwards (Fig. 286), and rotation of the lower fragment. Displacement due to the fracturing force is often spoken of as primary, wliile that due to all other causes is secondary—a dis- tinction of little value ; for, in point of time, the other causes may act simultaneously with the fracturing force, and muscular contraction may be the sole cause of displacement. The terms early and late displacement are more useful, as distinguishing between displace- ment found soon after the occurrence of the fracture and that which may subsequently occur, gradually or suddenly, owing to unlocking of fragments or yielding of restraining soft parts. THE SIGNS OF FEACTURE. In making an examination for fracture a regular order should be followed, the object being to effect an accurate diagnosis without inflicting more pain upon the patient, or more damage upon the tissues, than is absolutely necessary; consequently, crepitus is not the first sign which should be sought for, and movements of the fragments should be practised only with care and gentleness. The chief points to which attention must be paid are :—The detection of a fracture, its position and direction, the number and relation of the fragments to each other, the condition of the soft parts near the fracture and of the joints in which the injured bone takes part. The best plan is, first, to inquire into the history; then, to expose the injured part and that which corresponds to it, place them as nearly as possible in similar positions, and carefiilly compare them by inspection and measurement; lastly, to palpate the part, and endeavour to move the fragments on each other. Thus we may hope to detect the signs of fracture present in any case. The sig^ns of fracture.—These are :—(1) Pain and tenderness, (2) impairment or loss of function, (3) deforrnity from swelling or displacement of fragments, (4) abnormal mobility, and (5) crepitus. In the history, inquiry should be made as to:—The time and exact mode of occurrence of the accident, to determine the parts likely to be injured, and the cause—whether muscular, indirect, or direct violence j how it acted, and what kind of fracture is likely to have resulted; whether any “crack” was heard by the patient or bystanders (a similar noise may be heard when strong tendons or ligaments are ruptured); the immediate symptoms (pain and loss of