154 SYNCOPE AND SHOOK. in the abdomen as by its exit from the body), but tlie symptoms are distinctly different from those of rapid hsemorrliage. And further, although in some cases it has been found, on post-Tnortem examination, that such accumulation of blood in the abdominal viscera has taken place, in other instances nothing of the kind has been present. The view which seems to me to be most in consonance with the facts, is that which looks on the condition as due to a state of exhaustion of the medulla and the spinal cord, leading to a great reduction in the vital activity generally, and resulting from severe irritation of the peripheral ends of the sensory and sympathetic nerves. Experiments have shown that over-stimulation of sensory nerves will lead to exhaustion and temporary suspension of func- tion of the corresponding centres, and the longer the stimulation is continued, and the greater its severity, the more profound and prolonged is this suspension of function, and the less the probability of recovery. Treatment of shock.—As to the treatment of shock, no operation should be performed on a patient in this condition unless there be actual bleeding endangering life, and even then chloroform should not be administered. I cannot accept the dictum that complete anaesthesia protects against shock. Where an operation is not immediately necessary, it is much better to check the bleed- ing, and wait for recovery from the shock, than to perform primary amputation or other necessary operation without delay. Some have advised irritation of the sensory nerves, by enveloping the ab- domen in mustard poultices, or by applying strong mustard to the extremities ; but if this irritation be severe, it tends rather to in- crease than to diminish the shock. In any case the head should be kept low, and warmth be applied to the body; in fact, rest and warmth are most essential. If the patient can swallow, stimu- lants should be given, or, if he cannot swallow, they should be introduced into the rectum. A more immediate effect is produced by the injection of stimulants under the skin, as, for example, the injection of ether (about 40 minims) or of tincture of musk^ (20 to 30 minims). The latter is very much used in Germany; but it must be either freshly made or the tincture must be disinfected by bou- in<r before use, because bacteria—especially those of mabgnant oedema—seem to grow with particular rapidity in the musk solu- tion, and in a certain number of cases patients have recovered from the shock and have died of malignant oedema. Strychnine is also ot trreat value in these cases, and is, in my opimon, one of the most fmportant means which we possess of treating this condition.^ Gigi- talin, alone or combined with strychnine, is also of service in some LTlstcXTlC0S The chief precautions to be observed to prevent the occurrence of shock are the keeping of the patient thoroughly warm and tlie employment of strychnine before the commencement of the opeia- tion and during its course. Thus, in cases where shocx is lively to occur, the operation should be performed in a warm room, and the