470 TUMOURS. the nail, and often involving the matrix, or even the nail itself; or as a small pigmented nodule arising in the nail-matrix or in the adjacent skin. These nodules quickly ulcerate, and dissemination follows. In some of these nodules the pigment is very scanty— indeed in some cases it is only discovered with the microscope; yet secondary nodules of an intense black colour will arise in the various organs and tissues. The hallux is the digit most prone to be attacked by melanoma, and several examples have been fully recorded, most of the patients being women. Inti'ii-ociilai' mclaiioina. — Pigmented tumours arising within the eyeball belong to two genera, sarcoma and carcinoma. Of these, the melano-sarcoma is very much more frequent than the melano-carcinoma. Melano-sarcoma may arise from any part of the uveal tract— that is, either from the posterior part of the iris, the ciliary body, or the choroid, posterior to the ciliary body. A melano-sarcoma of the iris is excessively rare, and such a tumour is ten times more common in the choroid than in the ciliary body. Intra-ocular melano-sarcomata have been observed as early as the fifteenth year, but the Liability increases with age. By far tha greater number occur between the fiftieth and sixtieth years: they have been met with as late as eighty-four. Intra-ocular melano-sarcomata are very apt to recur after re- moval, and to become disseminated. The most frequent situation in which to find secondary deposits is the liver; but any organ may contain them, even the bones. It is surprising, considering that the eyeball is so near to, and in such close I’elation with the brain, by so large a nerve-trunk as the optic nerve, that it should be so rarely implicated. It is a fact that when the brain is the seat of deposit, it is excessive^ rarely the result of extension along the nerve. The amount of dissemination varies greatly; in some cases secondary knots occur in almost every organin others they will be limited to the liver. The lymph glands adjacent to the orbit are rarely infected. It is curious that in most cases death results more often from the secondary growths involving important organs than from the local effects of the primary tumour, in spite of its proximity to the brain. Sarcomata of secreting glands—The round and spindle- celled species of sarcomata ai’e prone to arise in the parotid and submaxillary glands, the kidney, testis, ovary, and occasionally in the mamma. They have attracted great attention on account of the variety of tissues they sometimes contain. Thus spindle- celled sarcomata of the parotid gland almost invariably contain cartilage, myxomatous and connective tissues, entangling groups of ill-formed glandular acini. Similar tumours occur in the submax- illary gland. Of spindle-celled sarcomata growing in the testis, half contain tracts of hyaline cartilage. In the kidneys of infants sarcomata contain ill-formed glandular tubules, and tissue which in