672 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATIGS. or the size of the swelling appears to bo on the increase, and when it has not acquired very lirm connection with other parts, by far the most satisfactory results are gained by dissecting out the entire gland and its capsule. Often this can be eflected through a very small incision, and at the same time other glands which threaten to follow the same course can be removed through the same wound. Care must be taken to tear the gland from its surroundings, and the free use of any sharp instrument should be avoided, on account of the importance and size of the vessels in the parts where such glands are most fre- quently situated, and the difficulty of restraining hyemorrhage in the deep wound that is left. If possible, the gland should be removed entire, without rupture of its capsule ; but if this be found impossible on account of its close connection with surrounding parts or the fluid nature of its contents, the fibrous capsule must be opened and the cavity freely cleared by means of a sharp spoon, and the interior must be wiped out with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 20 ad ^), and if necessary, a drainage-tube inserted for a day or two. But this should be avoided, if possible, and stitches must not be used unless absolutely necessary, though both may be required when the gland is situated beneath the deep fascia; and horse-hair or silkworm gut is the best material. At the same time, any neighbouring gland.s which can be seen should be punctured, and, if necessary, dealt with in a similar manner. When suppuration is evident, and before the skin becomes involved, it is better to make an incision directly into the gland, and to evacuate its contents thoroughly by means of the spoon, and after swabbing with chloride of zinc solution or iodoform emulsion, to drain for a short period. Others prefer to puncture with the fine point of a thermo-cautery at a bright red heat, which should be passed in several directions into the substance of the gland. After any of these operations, the parts must be kept at absolute rest; and in the case of the neck, this may render necessary the ap- plication of a stock made of guttapercha or ©f poroplastic felt, such as is u.sed in cases of cervical caries. The great object to be kept in view is the avoidance of sinuses and the formation of those ugly cicatrices which are characteristic of long suppuration from this cause, and this is best secured by providing complete immobility of the parts concerned. The constitutional treatment consists in careful dieting and regu- lation of the digestive organs. Cod-liver oil, especially during the winter months, must be given for long periods, and it may be asso- ciated with some preparation of iron or of cinchona, with a mineral acid or strychnia. Sea air, particularly that of the east coast of England, works wonders for the generality of these patients j but it must be continued for long periods and repeated for several years, while at the same time every opportunity for out-door exercise must be given where possible. {See page 359.) Hypertrophy and atrophy of glands.—The lymphatic glands even in health vary greatly in size, being proportionately larger m children and of greater size in adults than in old age. They are: