INFLAMMATION. GO blood-vessels, or most usually into the lymphatic vessels those which have coagulated undergoing, in the first instance, a certain amount of fatty degeneration: the corpuscles either re-enter the blood-vessels or get into the lymphatic vessels, or undergo fatty degeneration, and are absorbed by the lymphatics in the form of debris, and in this way the part recovers its normal condition. In some cases, howevei, this resolution is not quite complete, as, for example, where the m- flammation has attacked the surface of a serous membrane, such as the pleura or the synovial membrane of joints. There, the two seroi^ surfaces are apt to become stuck together by the lymph, which acts as a mould into which plasma cells penetrate, these cells subsequently organising into fibrous tissue, and giving rise to adhesions between the serous surfaces, a well-known result for example in the pleura as pleural adhe- sions, and in the joints as a cause of stiffness (Fig- 10). In the second place, if the inflam- mation be ex- tremely vio- lent, stasis may occur 10. A Piece of Lung sliowing Adhesions passing between the OVer a ve y two Pleural Surfaces. largo avca, o, Parietal pleura; 6,adhesions c.lung. wLcr, inflammation comes to a standstill a portion of that area does not recover, and we have the condition of gangrene. , . „ In the third place, and most commonly, when the inflamniatory changes have gone on to the stage described, they continue, and lead to the second or later series of inflammatory changes, namely, the destruction of the original tissue of the part which is the seat of the disease, and the formation of a new tissue, which is termed tion tissue (Fig. 11). Where this occurs, it will be found, provided that the inflammation has lasted sufficiently long, that the ongina structure of the part has completely disappeared. If the tion be situated in muscular tissue, the muscular elements will be destroyed, and after a time nothing Avill be seen but ^ cells with embryonic blood-vessels. Similarly, if the skui be the of the disease, as, for example, in small-pox pustule, the the skin are destroyed, and their place is taken by this same ,^ianu- WoXue. In b'on4 *o, the solid "V^lXbnTa‘’S and instead of a dense osseous structure, we find nothing ^ of soft granulation tissue. This granulation tissue is, as I just said, composed of a mass of round cells containing vessels (Fig. 12), but when an inflammation has lasted for a y ,