209 impediments to healing. or<ranisms into the body, and possibly into the blood, ^id the poison- in“ of the blood with the products of their growth. Or, again, even after the complete subsidence of the traumatic fever, the patient has fsevere rigo?, accompanied by a rapid rise of temperature and followed by an equally rapid fall, these rigors being repeated ai lesseninc^ intervals, and the condition of pyoemia developing. _ Conditions which interfere with healing by first tion or blood clot.—It is thus evident that wherever it is Possi^e one should strive to obtain healing by first intention or by blood clot, and to avoid healing by granulation and suppuration. _ y doino- so, the patient recovers much more rapidly, without havuig suffered any pain or constitutional disturbance, and without having run the risks which I have mentioned as incidental to the process of healing by granulation, and at the same time the resulting scar is much less eiddent, becoming, in fact, after some months, but slif^htly visible. It is necessary, therefore, to consider more in detail the conditions which interfere with healing by first intention or by ^^°°Intrder to obtain healing by first intention or by blood clot, the essential point is to ]ilace the wound completely at rest whether it be from mechanical disturbance or from the action of chemical sub- stances. Mechanical rest of the wound may in most cases be obtained by bringing the edges accurately together and by placmg the part at absolute rest, if necessary, on a splint, while at the same time care is taken that the dressings shall not irritate either by rubbing over the surface of the wound or by direct contact with it. The most important point, however, is to provide against the irrita- tion of chemical substances, and these chemical substances may be either various applications which are made to the wound, or sub- stances developed in it as the result of the growth of certain bac- teria. The irritation of chemical lotions is, of course, readily avoided, and lotions that are irritating to the wound should not be applied to it during the after-treatment. Above all, where a wound is aseptic there is absolutely no necessity for injecting antiseptic solutions into it j on the contrary, to do so will be to irritate it and prevent the desired result of union by first intention. The essential causes which lead to the failure of healing by first intention or by blood clot, and which expose the patient to the risk of various septic diseases, are the growth of micro-organisms in the material on the surface of the wound, and subsequently in the tissues themselves. The organisms that act in this way are gene- rally the pyogenic oi’ganisms, more especially the various kinds of pyogenic cocci that have been already referred to in speaking of suppm’ation (pages 25 and 81). Where a wound is freely open to the entrance of organisms, however, these are not the only ones