174 PYEMIA. (1) The variation which the virulence of different species of bacteria undergoes is now one of the commonplaces of bacteriology, and in many instances is easily controlled. Cultivated outside the body they become attenuated, whilst passage through an animal restores their potency. Pasteur uses anthrax attenuated by culture without the body for purposes of vaccination. In similar manner the Streptococcus pyogenes soon loses its virulence and dies out when grown in artificial media. The Staphylococcus aureus and albus are more resistant, but even the former after awhile becomes of a paler gold, grows more slowly, and ceases to cause suppuration or general infection. (2) The importance of the dose of bacteria is also exemplified by experimental pathology. Everyone who has studied the infective diseases is aware that it is necessary to introduce a considerable quantity of cocci into the venous system to cause a general pyaemic infection. The healthy organism is able to deal with moderate doses without the occurrence of abscesses in any of the organs. The experiments narrated by Watson Cheyne in his lectures on suppura- tion and septic diseases show the importance of the dose in a definite manner. 1,000,000,000 of Staphylococcus aureus were required to cause the death of an animal, while 250,000,000 only produced a small circumscribed abscess. It seems probable that Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and albus and Streptococcus pyogenes are more virulent for man than for animals. It is hardly necessary to point out that fewer virulent bacteria are required to produce results, and more of those which are attenuated. (3) In pyaemia, as in other diseases, predisposition and immunity are both topics that are shrouded in considerable mystery. • We will consider first the question of general predisposition. It is a matter of common observation that certain races and indi- viduals are more predisposed to some kind of infection than others. These peculiarities have only been ascertained for certain kinds of infection, of which anthrax is one of the best known. Even here immunity seems to be capriciously bestowed. It is notorious that French sheep die of anthrax, whilst the Algerian are immune. But natural immunity is not absolute. Pasteur found that fowls, which are refractory to anthrax, soon died of it, if, before or after inoculation, their temperature was lowered by placing them in cold water. Similarly frogs, which are naturally immune against anthrax, were rendered susceptible by immersion in warm water. Watson Cheyne also ascertained that natural immunity against bacteria could be overcome by phosphorus, a drug which has a well-known deleterious action upon the protoplasm of the body. There is reason to suppose that the toxins and ptomaines manufactured by bacteria may, when absorbed, predispose to the action of the bacteria them- selves (Grawitz and de Bary, Rinne). On the other hand, Behring claims that he has rendered animals immune against virulent Streptococcus longus by injecting into them the blood of animals that had been rendered immune by repeated