343 tubercle. It it well how.™,, Jrof W 'tuberJulosis, it .my be said to be exeeedingly ’’‘"’"Another feature in tuberculosis is the trifling nature of the • 4W O lesion whereby the mischief may be m the hrst place looSd GWen an access of the tubercle bacillus to the body and provided that that body L°1X locate°the disease. nuTlTto md clries i the sjine may follow upon quite slight injuries, tuberculous glands may be set up by some insigniimnt Wmtioi of the surface, and phthisis may follow upon what may nnnp-u- to be but a slight disturbance of the lung., , , , , Finally it is to be observed how readily tuberculous troubles will hea/under suitable treatment, one essential in that treatment bein- the free removal of the tuberculous material. A tuberculous ulce? which has existed for months or years may heal up in a week or so after a vigorous application of Volkmann s spoon. To make a summary of the matter, the tuberculous process has the following general cliaracteristics: (1) It is slow and in- sidious. (2) It is attended with the phenomena of inflammaUon. (3) It has a tendency to extend locally, and to be somewhat difiuse in its outline and indistinct in its limits. (4) The exudation material produced is ill-conditioned. (5) Caseation is very common, and .suppuration is very usual, although by no mea,ns inevitable (6) Repair is often feeble and insecure. (7) A well-localised tubercu lous disease may be the starting-point of a general acute disseminated tuberculosis. (8) The tuberculous process may easily induced, urovided that the soil is suitable and ready, and that the bacillus has access to the part. (9) Tuberculous affections respond readily to treatment when a free eradication of the diseased tissues is possflfl w. u tubercle ” was originally applied to a certain naked-eye appearance—to minute spots of diseased tissue which were conspicuous as nodules or tubercles. The association of a caseous change with these little bodies was early appreciated. A better limitation of the word was arrived at when it set forth that some of these nodules were grey and clear, while others were yellow and opaque. Thus arose a division of tubercle into the gTey and yellow varieties. The yellow, or so-called crude, tubercles were for the most part caseous masses, or, at least, masses ^ advanced in that degeneration. With regard to the grey variety, it was found that these, when met with in the lung, were often made up solely of little masses of alveolar epithelium, the results of a lobular catarrh. All such nodules, therefore, had to be eliminated, and the term was then restricted to such grey semi-transparent bodies as were not merely masses of catarrhal exudation, and which, while retaining the size of a millet-seed, were hard and firm. The name of miliary tubercle was given to them, and in the disease known as