116 SYrEILIS. ulcers are pei'haps most common along the margins. For otlier points in the diagnosis we must refer to the Article On the Tongue (Art. XLV. Vol. II.). Sometimes syphilitic disease of the palate resembles ordinary lupus, but, as a rule, the destruction is much greater, and anything like a gumma does not occur in true lupus. Gummata at the back of the pharynx may have their origin in the deep tissues immediately in front of the vertebrte, and, as they soften and bulge forwards the mucous membrane, may readily be mistaken for post-pharyngeal abscess. It is most important to diagnose them correctly, as treatment with iodides will probably effect their complete absorption, without having recourse to the scalpel. 3. Tertiary syphilis of the larynx.—Although attacked less than half as often as the pharynx, the larynx is not infrequently the seat of tertiary syphilitic disease, manifested in the following chief forms :— (1) Patches of hyperplasic infiltration, occurring mainly in the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottideair folds, usually going on to ulceration. (2) Gummata in the same positions, breaking down early, unless absorbed by treatment, but sometimes attaining the size of a pigeon’s egg before they ulcerate. (3) Perichondritis, which affects the epiglottis, the arytenoid cartilages, or even the cricoid and thyroid. It is a most dangerous form, as it is apt to cause necrosis of part or the whole affected cartilage, which may then cause death by becoming impacted in the rima glottidis. (4) Stenosis or stricture of the laryngeal aperture may follow either of the preceding lesions, and may necessitate laryngotomy or tracheotomy. (51 Paralysis of one or more laryngeal muscles occasionally results from tertiary syphilitic disease of the nerves, or the muscles them- selves. It is, compared with the preceding affections, very rare. The importance of the correct diagnosis of these affections cannot be exaggerated, since early treatment may not only ward off the risk of death from acute cedema glottidis (a danger which constantly threatens the subjects of ulcerative laryngitis), but may prevent the voice from being permanently damaged. The chief points in distin- guishing them from tubercular and epitheliomalous lesions are :— {a) The proneness of the epiglottis and arytenoid folds to be involved, and for comparatively rapid and deep ulceration to occur (in tubercular laiyngitis the ulcers are generally superficial and numerous, and often affect the vocal cords, the surrounding mucous membrane being pale and thickened). (6) The absence of nodules of growth round the ulcer, as in epithelioma, which, moreover, often starts on the back^ of the arytenoid cai-tilage, and hence causes early dysphagia and pain.^ (c) The patient attacked with tertiary laryngitis is often in the prime of life, and shows no sign of disease of the lungs, which so very frequently accompanies, and often precede.^, tubercular laryngitis.