292 ANALST1IETI08. over the area supplied by the nerve. He agrees with Eeclus that a ^ per cent, solution is quite sufficient. (c) Systemic effects of cocaine.-The local application of cocaine IS not mfi^equently attended or followed by symptoms point^ mg to Its absorption into the general circulation. Such symptoms are most likely to arise when the drug has been injected^directly ^ vascular part. There is good ^ ? believe that many of the alarming symptoms which Lve attended the use of cocaine have either been due to unnecessarily large doses, to impurities in the solution employed, to want of proper antiseptic precautions in introducing the cocaine, or to psychical causes unconnected with the action of the amesthetic. Keclus, who collected and analysed seventeen fatal cases of cocaine poisoning, came to the conclusion that in all cases an excessive dose had been used. But it must not be forgotten that patients display very great differences in their behaviour with cocaine, toxic symp- oms having undoubtedly arisen on many occasions from simply painting or spraying a mucous surface with comparatively dilute ^ utions. Amongst the phenomena which have been recorded are; Headache; vertigo; jiallor; a cold, moist skin; a feeble, slow, or rapid pulse, becommg imperceptible in grave cases; incoherence of speech; nausea; vomiting; unconsciousness; trismus and other muscular spasms; epileptiform attacks; dilated or unequal pupils- and disturbances of respirations culminating in dyspiima and asphyxia. ‘ In the treatment of cocaine "poisoning^ the first indication as a rule, is to restore the circulation. The patient, if not already'lyino down, should at once be placed horizontally, and some rapidly actin» stimulant, such as brandy, whisky, or sal volatile, administered” A hypodei-mic injection of ether is an excellent remedial measure. The patient should be kept warm, the respiration watched, and any tendency to failure of breathing met by artificial respiration. Nitrite of amyl, nitro-glycerine, and chloral have each been used with success. 2. Frigoripic Processes. When heat is rapidly abstracted from the skin, mucous mem- branes, or other parts, by one of the following processes, partial or complete congelation of the tissues takes place, and, owing to the sensory nerve-endings becoming jiaralysed, analgesia occurs. Fri- gorific analgesia is of most value v^hen simple cutaneous incisions or punctures have to be made. There are, however, several objections to the employment of cold as an analgesic agent. The natural appearances of the parts are altered; operative procedures upon tlie frozen tissues are difficult of execution ; and the process of thawing is often attended by considerable pain. The ether spray.—A special apparatus, consisting of indiarubber hand bellows, tubing, and an atomiser, is needed. Sir B. W. Bichardson, the originator of the method, prefers equal parts of