1094 DISEASES OP JOINTS. and liave so fav had no fatalities. Of course the statistics of liip ex- cision in the old septic days were far otherwise, and one of the first series published showed 60 per cent, of deaths. And even later in the Listerian days they were set down at 40 to 46 per cent.; but it is not so now. And not only are the immediate results of the opera- tion immeasurably better than before, but the fact of having got rid early of a focus of tuberculous disease, liable at any time to infect the general system, is a great gain. Further, to put a patient soon into a position to move about and get fresh air and exercise has a most im- portant influence upon his future prospects as regards the recurrence of the disease locally or generally. And as a matter of fact, the amount of general tuberculous disease following upon hip disease in my series has so far been comparatively small. I am entirely in accord with those who maintain that it is better not to excise those cases in which there is very extensive caries with putrid sinuses, and that their chances as regards life and limb are better when treated by rest, drainage, and local cleansing. But so long as no sinuses are present, we ought to be able to remove all diseased tissue, without allowing the resulting wound to become septic ; and if this is possible, the latter ought to heal throughout by first intention. But there are cases, of course, in which I’ecurrence wUl take place. These must be treated as was the original disease, by ex- cision of the focus and suture of the clean-cut edges with a -vdew to primary union. The question of early operation.—There are surgeons of un- doubted eminence, however, who hold the opinion that disease of the hip joint ought to be treated at a much earlier stage by operation. Those who adopt this view think that by opening up the joint and removing diseased synovial membrane or bone before the morbid process has attacked the joint generally, that the latter may be spared. This is, however, an opinion which is not largely shared, and which is not generally acted on. The reasons which are given against the practice are briefly these, that inasmuch as the most likely spot for synovial tubercle is around the ligamentum teres, where the synovial tissue is most abundant, the head of the bone would have to be turned out of the acetabulum • in order to reach the diseased material, and this in itself would be a great difficulty ; moreover, when the affection is concentrated upon this spot, it is very likely to have attacked the bones secondarily if they have not been already primarily affected. If this is so, nothing but the sacrifice of a considerable quantity of the latter would have any prospect of eradicating the disease, and to get at the bones thoroughly would necessitate such a wide dissection of the joint as to imperil its functions very considerably. Finally, experience has taught us that such operations do nob, as a rule, secure the patient against recurrence. In my experience of the few cases in which I have attempted thus to resect the hip jomt partially at a very early stage of the disease, little, if anything, has been gained.