ANESTHETICS. 282 such,ca^^es the use of morphine before ether or 01 ofoim should be avoided. In anmsthetising epileptics a mouth- pi op should be placed between the teeth, in case an attack occurs. Henal (^^seose.—Patients with advanced renal disease may be safely anmsthetised by ether, provided that other morbid conditions contra-indicatmg this anaesthetic are absent. Menstritation pregnancy.—W, is as well to withhold anaesthetics during the menstrual _ period. Pregnant women should be anasthe- tised by methods which are not likely to induce convulsive move- ments, struggling, coughing, or vomiting. Operations within or about the nose or The best plan in these cases is first to place the patient well under ether (preceded if desired, by nitrous oxide or the A. C. E. mixture), and then to keep up unconsciousness with chloroform. Many operations (e.g. those tor the removal of adenoids, tonsils, or nasal polypi, as well as those tor the extraction of numerous teeth) may be very conveniently per- tormed after a free administration of ether, no further application of the mhaler bemg necessary. But for long operations on the jaws, tongue, palate, etc., this plan hardly suffices, so that a change to chloroform should be eflfected, the conjunctiva being allowed to re- gam its jeflex to a slight extent before the chloroform vapour is pumped into the mouth or nose by the Junker’s apparatus already de- sciibed (Method 9). The sitting posture is only admissible when ether is employed. When it is necessary to give chloroform, either from the commencement or after ether, the patient should, if con- venient to the surgeon, either be placed upon his side, with his cheek upon the pillow—an excellent posture in many cases—or upon his back, with his head completely extended over the end of the table. Should any other posture be necessary, the anaesthetist must be careful, lest blood accumulate in undesirable quantities above or within the larynx. As a rule, only a moderately deep anaesthesia should be maintained. If the haemorrhage is profuse, either re- peated sponging will be needed or the head must be turned to the side occasionally for drainage. Unattached sponges, so lai’ge that they can be just introduced into the mouth, answer well for sweep- ing round the back of the throat, and several of them should be at hand. Operations in the region of the neck.—Ether produces so much vascular engorgement in this region that many surgeons greatly pre- fer chloroform or the A. 0. E. mixture. Chloroform is certainly the best anaesthetic for tracheotomy, laryngotomy, and operations upon the thyroid gland. Cardiac depression from interference with the vagus may arise in some cases of this class. Operations upon the pleura or lung.—In most cases of empyema a small quantity of the A. C. E. mixture should be first administered on a Skinner’s mask, and then ether should be slowly given from a Rendle’s inhaler. Deej) anaesthesia must be avoided. If ether be badly borne, the mixture or chloroform may be substituted. In recent cases of empyema, with fever and cyanosis, general anaesthesia, even of moderate degree, is very hazardous.