173 MODE OF INFECTION. Clinical conditions which have a close resemblance to those ot pvffiniia are sometimes met with during gonorrhoea and typhoid fever. In these the metastatic suppurations contain the gonococcus, or the typhoid bacillus respectively. There is also the closest affinity betwixt pysemia and acute osteomyelitis (acute suppurative peri- ostitis, acute necrosis, acute panostitis). Indeed, these two diseases are but different manifestations of an infection with the same species of pyogenic cocci. Matters have become simpler since it has been recognised that a single kind of bacterium may produce various results, according to the mode of infection. For instance, the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus rubbed into the skin causes furun- cules (Garrd); injected into the cellular tissue it causes an acute abscess (Bumm, Waterhouse); injected into the joints acute suppu- rative arthritis (Passet); injected beneath the periosteum, acute suppurative periostitis j injected into the serous cavities it causes pleuritis, pericarditis, meningitis, or peritonitis. Conversely, Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus from any of the above affections will, when introduced into the circulation, cause pyaemia. It is prob- able that the Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus pyogenes albus play as extensive a role as the Staphylococcus aureus. There can be no doubt but that clinical differences are to be observed in different cases of pyaemia. This is possibly to some extent accounted for by differences in the bacteria that have caused the attack. For instance, it is beginning to be recognised that in streptococcus poisoning the joints are usually affected, whilst staphy- lococcus poisoning is especially prone to cause suppurative peri- ostitis or osteomyelitis. Wagenmann found streptococci in the emboli which fiUed the vessels of the eye in puerperal pyaemia. The circumstances of the infection.—Pyaemia is not, how» ever, simply a matter of infection, as the foregoing might lead the reader to suppose. The mere presence of appropriate bacteria in a wound is, as a rule, not sufficient to cause pyaemia. A proportion of the wounds treated by the most careful antiseptic surgeons contain pyogenic cocci; and yet pyaemia may be unknown in their practice. Furthermore, the mere presence of Staphylo- coccus aureus or albus, or of Streptococcus pyogenes in the blood is not necessarily followed by pyaemia. Von Eiselsberg and Canon, in cases of ordinary wound fever and of sepsis, found Staphylococcus aureus and albus, and Streptococcus pyogenes in the blood. But as a rule the presence of any of these bacteria in the blood is asso- ciated with abscess-formation in some part of the body. Before the pyogenic cocci can cause pyaemia, certain conditions have to be fulfilled. There are certain kinds of micrococci found in wounds which are, perhaps, capable of causing a local suppuration, but incapable of invading the blood. Many of those which inhabit the skin belong to this class. When the appropriate bacteria are present much depends upon (1) their virulence ; upon (2) the dose of them which enters the blood ; and upon (3) th.Q predisposition of the recipient. [See page 16.)