XXVII. INJUEIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. By AlfTHONY BOWLBY, F.E.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. PART I INJURIES. I. THE SECTION OF A NERVE. The effects of section of a nerve are much greater in pro- portion to the size of the part injured than are the effects of injury to most of the other tissues of the body. Not only do changes ensue in the divided nerve itself, but the various parts to which it is dis- tributed also undergo structural and functional alterations, which, in turn, give rise to the most diverse pathological conditions. It is necessary, therefore, before describing the clinical symptoms and the treatment of nerve injury, to consider in detail the results of section of a mixed nerve. 1. Cliang'es in the nerve itself.—After section, the whole of the peripheral portion undergoes degenerative changes in its entire length and distribution, and it has been experimentally demonstrated that this degeneration is due to the separation of the motor fibres from the large nerve cells in the anterior cornua of the spinal cord, and of the sensory fibres from the similar cells in the ganglion on the posterior root, these ganglion cells constituting the trophic centres for the fibres which originate in connection with them. The first and most evident alteration in the degenerating nerve is seen in the white substance of Schwann, which becomes broken up and forms globules of varying size within its sheath. This change is seen within the first four or five days, and the disintegration thus early commenced continues with such rapidity that in the course of four or five weeks the whole of the myelin has been destroyed. The de- geirerative changes are not, however, limited to the myelin; they affect also the axis cylinders, which split longitudinally into nume- rous fibrils, and completely disintegrate even more rapidly than does the myelin itself. ^ In this way the whole of the axis cylinders and their white myelin sheath are completely destroyed, and the pei-i- pheral end of the severed nerve after a few weeks consists only of