SUltGIOAL BAOTERIOLOGY. 46 been obtained in considerable quantities from pure cultures of the tetanus bacillus, when inoculated into rabbits, guineapigs, or mice, or even into liorses, produces a distinct intoxication setting up all the symptoms of tetanus. It resembles the enzymes in being destroyed at the comparatively low temperature of 65® C. in about 5 minutes, in 20 minutes at 60° 0. and 1| hour at 55° 0. It is not affected by drying at ordinary temperatures, but in consequence of its instability in the presence of chemical agents, it is exceedingly difficult to remove it as a pure substance. Brieger and Kitasato and Weyl, however, have succeeded in obtaining a most virulent poison, in the form of yellow transparent flakes readily soluble in water, which does not give the reaction for allDumens. . It is not destroyed by drying, nor fn the dried state by absolute alcohol, chloroform or anhydrous ether, but is injuriously affected by acids and alkalis, sulphuretted hydrogen and high temperature, thus resembling the tetanus poison in its original solution. This poison is so powerful that its toxicity may be represented as being 500 times as great as that of atropin and 120 to 400 times as great as that of strychnine. The tetanus bacillus has never been found at a distance from the seat of inoculation, whence then the absorption of the poison must go on, but when the extreme virulence of the tetano-toxine is remembered the deadliness of the process can be readily under.stood. The first experiments on the production of immunity against tetanus were futile, but Kitasato was able to produce a temporary immunity in rabbits by inoculating with the filtrate from a culture of the tetanus bacillus, and then injecting at the same point a small quantity—3 cc. of a 1 per cent, solution of terchloride of iodine—at intervals of hours for five clays. He then found that mice, in which he had previously failed to obtain any immunity, were rendered immune by the injection into the abdominal cavity of 0'2 cc. of the blood of the immune rabbit so obtained; this treatment proved efficacious, even after symptoms had become developed in the affected mice, ihe blood of an immune animal was also found to have the power of neutralising the tetanus poison; to such an extent has this been carried that 300 times the lethal dose of a virulent culture, after being mixed with serum from an immunised animal, produced no pathogenic results. Upon this rests the whole method of the pre- paration of immunising serum and the antitoxic treatment of tetanus. {See Art. IX. page 200.) ^ 2 Bacillus oedeinatis maligBii (bacillus of malignant oedema, vibrion septique).—This organism is of importance as being one of those so carefully studied by Pasteur (1877)_and by Koch four yearn later Like the tetanus bacillus it is found in the superficial layei-s of the soil, especially those soils containing a large quantity of organic matter, and in water that has been allowed to stand in ^ such soil It is usually obtained by introducing a small quantitj of garden earth into a pocket beneath the skin of a rabbit or guinea- pig, when there is developed in the coui-se of 14 to 24 to the virulence of the organism, some swelling around the seat of