BACILLUS MALLET. 35 The poisonous material contained in cultures of tubercle bacilli is proteid in nature; it withstands boiling, and appears to be derived directly from the bodies of the bacilli; when these latter are first subjected to boiling for some time, and then injected subcutaneously, they give rise to a circumscribed abscess, or when carried into the circulation, to the formation of giant cells similar to those seen in cases of tuberculosis. They do not, however, undergo caseation, and are strictly localised. These proteins, as they are called, have a marked power of attracting leucocytes. Other poisons which are probably rendered inert by the action of a boiling temperature may be the exciting cause of the caseation which is so characteristic of tubercle. (See Art. XYI. page 351.) Bacillus leprse.—The Bacillus leprm was first desci’ibed by Hansen in 1879, and then by Neisser in the same year. This bacillus is very similar in appearance to the tubercle bacillus; it is, however, more rigid and the ends are pointed. It is usually about 5/i in length and -4p in breadth; otherwise it is like this organism, even as to its staining reactions, except that it is much more readily decolon'sed. As yet, any attempt to cultivate it has been unattended with success, though it is stated that positive results have followed inoculations into the anterior chamber of the eye in animals. This organism is found specially in the lymph channels of the skin, but sometimes evidently embedded in the protoplasm of cells. It has been found in all forms of leprosy at some stage or other of the disease. Bacillus mallei (Plate I. Figs. 1, 2).—This bacillus was, in 1882, proved by Loeffler and Schiitz to be the cause of glanders. It was first examined in the nodules occurring in that disease and then in cases of farcy. The organism is about the same length as the tubercle bacillus, but is considerably broader, being described as from -5yu to 1 A/x broad. It is doubtful whether spores are formed. The bacillus is motile, and grows in gelatine tube cultures, but only luxuriantly at the tempera- ture of the body, when it is seen as a whitish growth composed of chains and threads coiled irregularly and penetrating the gelatine in alcoliol, to which solution 100 parts of a 5 per cent, watery solution of carbolic acid are added ; this is heated until steam rises pretty freely. The cover-glass prepai-a- faons are stained in three or four minutes, or even less ; sections are usuallv sufii- ^ntly deeply stained in seven or eight minutes. In the cold they may be left for twelve or even twenty-four hoins. The superfluous fluid is drained off, and the pre- parations are placed for a second or two in alcohol (90 per cent.), then in a 25 per cent, solution of sulphuric acid, when the pink tinge should be immediately replaced by a yelbwish-hrown. The preparations are then washed in 70 per cent, alcohol and d th^ are sufficiently decolorised, are transferred to a solution of lithium eax’- bonate. They may afteiymrds be staiued, for a liaff to two minutes, with a watery soluhon of methylene blue, cleared up with clove or aniline oil, tui-pentine, and xylol, and mounted m Canada balsam. In place of sulphuric acid, nitric or hvdro- used, and for clinical work, in order to shorten the process, the ^ advantage ho mixed with the acid, the decolorisinn and contrast-staming being earned on in one process. ° . method for staining tubercle bacilli.—Etain for two minutes, without heat- ing, m Ziehl s carbolic f uchsin solution, and after washing in water place for a minute m a solution of 2 grammes of methylene blue in 100 cc. of 26 per cent, sulphuric acid, wMli again m water, dry, and mount in Canada balsam. Tliis is an excellent practical method, being simple, easily carried out, and very certain in its result. 0 J