770 INJURIES OF BONES. Sha'ped splints may Ije moulded for any case in wire, poroplastic, guttapercha, leather, or plaster; and very simple ones may be made of sheet lead. If toire be used, the outline is made in stout telegraph wire, the ends being lashed with fine wii-e or, preferably, soldered (than which nothing is easier) and filed smooth. The interval is filled in with a trelliswork of light wire. If guttapercha, poroplastic, or leather be used, a pattern in stout paper is made, the paper being laid on the part and cut to the required shape, pinched up and cut off where excessive in rounding with by the pressure of a hot iron, continued till the surfaces are smooth; where the material has been stretched, pieces of guttapercha must be stuck onto the outer surface. When firm, numerous holes should be punched through the splint, which is then lined with chamois leather. Such splints are not very rigid, and retain the sweat disagreeably. Poroplastic may be softened in hot water, but rotation on a string in front of a fire, or, if large, heating in an oven, gives better results. It hardens quickly. The lunb should be bandaged with thick fiannel before the splint is moulded on. Before heating, excessive material must be cut out—too little rather than too much being removed. When soft, the edge of the material may be stretched a little, where a concavity has to be passed; but generally non-pro- fessional workers have to cut notches here which greatly weaken the splint. The bandage used to mould the splint must be applied very quickly, uniformly, and firmly. On removal, necessary modifications are made ; intervals where pieces have been cut out are closed by convexities, notched where it must gape in passing concavities. A gap of at least 1 in. should be left be- tween the edges where it grips a limb. From this pattern the splint is cut (Fig. 227), at first in general outline. Fig. 227.—A Shoulder Cap cut from pattern and fitted. Guttapercha is softened in hot water; if made too soft it gets sticky. It remains soft for some time, so there is no need for hurry in handling it. The limb must be thoroughly oiled, the guttapercha laid upon it folded over where it is in excess, carefully stretched where it is insufficient, and bandaged on. When it has acquired some firm- ness the bandage may be cut up, and the splint placed in cold water to hasten rigidity ; or, if possible, the part and splint may be placed in cold water. Angles are now dealt