332 8UEGIGAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. are ^ x -s-sVjy inch. When uncoiled, it is rounded at the anterior extremity and tapers posteriorly, the retained sheath pro- jecting as an empty space behind the minute worm, which does not completely fill it longitudinally. According to Manson, the coiled embryo, which he regards as an abortion, is responsible from its large size, for the lymphatic obstruction. Lodging in the efferent vessels of the glands, it interferes more or less with the passage of lymph, causing dilatation and vari- cosity of the vessels, or complete ob- struction. The uncoiled embryo, on the other hand, which nearly corre- sponds in width with the red blood discs, readily traverses the blood- vessels, and it is this which is found in the general circulation (Fig. 59). The presence of the embryonic filarise in the cutaneous blood- vessels undergoes diurnal varia- tions. While the patient is moving and active during the day, none are found, but they appear between six and eight p.m., increase in number till about midnight, and then they gradually decrease, to disappear entirely about eight or nine a.m. S. Mackenzie observed that the retention of a patient in bed dui-ing the day resulted in a reversal of the order of appearance of the filarise. Manson describes two further distinct forms of filaria embryo, one of which is found during the day only; the other is present both by day and night. The embryonic filarise undergo no further development in the human body ; but according to Manson’s observations, they find an intermediate host in the mosquito. This insect, biting at night, abstracts blood eontaining embryos, and during the four to six days which it lives prior to depositing its own eggs, the embryos acquire a mouth with three or four nipple-like papiUse, an alimentary canal, rudimentary generative organs, and a peculiar three-lobed caudal appendage. After depositing its eggs upon water the mosquito dies, and its body with the contained filarise falls into the water also, ready to be ingested by man. The presence of the adult worms does not appear to cause any of the more serious symptoms of the disease beyond lymphangitis, although its death may occasion the foi’mation of an abscess. Obstruction of the lymph stream by the embryos is followed by dilatation and varicosity of the lymphatics (lymphangiectasis), lymphatic oedema, and sometimes by the development of lymphatic vesicles on the body surface, which may rupture (lymph scrotum, see Art. XXVI.); or conununications may take place by the rupture of dilated lymphatics with the urinary passages (chyluria) or serous cavities (chylous ascites, chylocele, etc.). Lymphatic oedema may be Fig 59,—Embryonic FilarijB in Blood. Tlie red discs are somewbali shrunken, also the sheath, of the embryo.