NERVE LESIONS IN FRACTURE. 689 exquisitely tender and the least touch of it is liable to produce muscular spasm. Occasionally there result spasm and rigidity of many of the muscles of the affected limb. The implication of nerve trunks in scar tissue causes an interference with the function of the nerve pro- portionate to the amount of pressure exercised. Pain is not so prominent a feature as in cases of implication of sensory nerve twigs. The treatment of pressure on a nerve is to remove the cause. Thus, tumours may be removed, crutches given up for a time, and painful scars excised. If a nerve trunk be compressed by scar tissue, it should be dissected from it and then thoroughly stretched. The paralysis and loss of sensation resulting from pressure are best treated, after removal of the cause, by galvanism and massage. V. INJURIES OF NERVES COMPLICATING FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS. In fractures.—Considering the frequency of fractures, nerves are but seldom injured at the time a bone is broken. They may, however, suher in one of two ways. First, they may be torn at the time of the accident; or, secondly, they may be subsequently com- pressed by callus. In the first case the symptoms of loss of power and of sensation supervene at once ; in the second case their onset is gradual. Nerves lying close to bones are those most likely to be in- volved, the musculo-spiral being probably more often injured than any other. In many cases the nerve injury is overlooked in the face of the more evident lesion, and the subsequent splinting and bandag- ing of the limb frequently preveiit a patient from having any clear idea of the condition of his sense of touch and of musculai’pow'er. It is often only when sjdints are removed that the symptoms of nerve injury arc first noticed. (^See Art. XXIX., on Injuries of Bones page 789.) ’ Treatment.—Considering that mere contusion or stretching of a nerve may also cause a complete, though transient, paralysis” it is evidently not advisable to undertake any operation at the time of injury ; and, again, when the symptoms have only slowly developed and are apparently the result of callus pressure, time should be allowed for the provisional callus to be absorbed before concludino- that surgical interference is necessary. When, however, the suro-eon IS convinced that no improvement is to be expected, he should expose the nerve at the seat of fracture and, if he finds it torn, should suture It. In other cases exces.sive callus must be cut away, and occa- sionally displaced fragments of comminuted bone must be excised. Sometimes para ysis of a nerve trunk seems to result from a faulty position of the bones after the fracture has been set; in such cases e-lracture and re-position of the fragments may give good results. +1 —It is only in certain dislocations that iniurics 0 the nerves occur with any frequency, such complications being oc.itions of the elbow. In each case the nerves may be either torn