499 IWPTUliE OF AUTEllIFS. Tliis swelling, as a rule, has no pulsation, but«when very tense a slighb"pulsation may be detected by it; as a rule, too, there is nefther bruit nor thrill; both may, however,^ be present. The swelling rapidly increases, is usually acutely painful, but the local heat is°not increased. The arteries beyond the rupture are pulse- less, and the tissues here become cedematous, livid, and cold, and if the condition be not relieved moist gangrene results. The patient may also show the signs of considerable haemorrhage—pallor, weak- ness, and a rapid, feeble pulse. Treafniciit.—Where, as the immediate or later result of con tusion, an artery is obstructed by a thrombus, the treatment is directed to maintaining the vitality of the parts rendered anaemic. They must be kept at rest, warm, and protected from all constriction, pressure and other injury. If the anastomotic circulation is established, nothing else is required; if, however, it fails—owing to contusion of the collateral vessels, as well as of the main trunk, or to disease of these vessels—and gangrene ensues, amputation at the level of the obstruction in the artery should be performed as soon as the patient’s general condition permits of it. In cases of contusion and obstruction of a large artery such as the common femoral or axillary, when an entire limb is bloodless, there is sometimes considerable shock for some hours after the accident, which may even prove fatal. In the case of contused wounds great care must be taken to render the parts aseptic and to secure rapid healing by first intention. The patient must be closely watched for the first appearance of secondary hsemorrhage, which must be arrested by ligature of the artery above and below its contused area. Where an artery has been severed by crushing or tearing, if its ends are closed it should not be ligatured or twisted; but if any hsemorrhage is occurring from either end, that end should be care- fully tied. Special care should be taken to examine the distal end of such a vessel. Some advise that an obviously contused artery which remains patent should be at once subjected to the double ligature without waiting for bleeding to occur. The cases in which the diagnosis can be made before hsemorrhage occurs are very few. When an artery is rwptured suhoutaneously the principles of treatment are the same. Thus, if there is no subcutaneous hsemorr- hage, the surgeon’s efforts are all directed to maintaining the vitality of the ansemic parts until the anastomotic circulation is established. Should this fail, amputation at the seat of rupture must be per- formed. If blood is escaping from either end of the ruptured artery the surgeon must cut down upon it, turn out all the effused blood, and ligature both ends of the vessel. Supposing that there has been a considerable extravasation of blood from the wounded artery, but the hsemorrhage from it has ceased, an incision to turn out the clots must be made, because these clots form a serious obstruction to the venous return from the parts beyond, and may even impede the establishment of the arterial anastomotic circulation. In either