«11 TREATMENT OF ANE0RT8M. treatment—when not pushed to an extreme barely compatible with ]ife is very valuable in reducing the arterial tension; but that its beneficial effect upon the composition of the blood and upon the disease of the artery is open to doubt. Local treatment.—The simplest local treatment is to raise the part, if a limb, and to bandage it with gentle pressure over the aneurysm. By these means the arteries of the part are made to contract, the tension in the aneurysm is lowered, the sac is sup- ported, and the resiliency of it and of the surrounding tissues is supplemented. Combined with judicious constitutional measures this is all that is required to cure some cases, and unless there are special conditions of urgency, these means may be carefully tried in all appropriate cases before adopting more active local measures. These are many, and we will consider them in the following order :— 1. Treatment by compression. 2. Treatment by ligature. 3. Excision of the aneurysm. 4. The introduction of coagulating agents. 5. Amputation. 1. Treatment by compression— (a) Digital compression. (b) Instrumental compression. (c) Flexion. (d) Esmarch’s bandage. (e) Temporary ligature. By these various forms of compression a temporary diminution or arrest of the circulation through the diseased artery and the aneurysm can be obtained without, it is hoped, any permanent block in the arterial system elsewhere, and (with one exception) without the risks inherent to a cutting operation involving blood-vessels. Before the introduction and perfecting of the aseptic treatment of wounds, compression occupied a much more important place than it does to-day ; asepsis and the ligature of arteries without rupture of their inner tunics have abolished the perils which formerly attended the operation of ligature, and which were avoided by the use of com- pression. We shall see that compression and ligature are closely alike in the processes by which they lead to the cure of an aneurysm, that there is no diSerence in the principle of the two methods, and that the choice between them is determined by secondary considerations. (a) Digital compression is the best means of temporarily con- trolling the flow of blood through an artery. In order that the pressure of the thumb shall be easily efficient, it is necessary for the artery to be placed not too deeply, and to be well supported by bone. This greatly limits the positions in which digital pressure can be successfully employed, and its applicability is further re- duced by the fact that relays of assistants are I’equii’ed to carry it out. It is employed as follows: the part, if hairy, is carefully shaved and well dusted with boric acid powder or French chalk. A spot where the artery to be compressed is most superficial