693 DISEASES OF NERVES. of pain. On account of the frequency with which movements of the mouth cause an attack, all movements of the facial muscles are avoided as much as possible. Thus, in speaking the teeth are kept clenched and the lips are hardly moved ; and in eating or drinking the same precautions are exercised. On account of the sensitiveness of the skin, the face is commonly wrapped up and bright light is avoided. In some cases of epileptiform neuralgia the general health gives way under the strain of constant pain, but in others it is surprisingly little affected. Treatment of neuralgia.—In many cases of neuralgia, where no definite cause can be discovered, much more good is done by paying attention to the general health than by giving drugs to relieve pain. In the neuralgias which are so common in ansemic women, it will often be found that dyspepsia and insufficient nourishing food are at the bottom of the trouble, and attention should in such cases be always directed to the remedying of these conditions. In other cases, insufficient healthy exercise, working in overlieated and ill-ventilated rooms, and bad hygienic surround- ings appear to account for the frequent neuralgic attacks. In those cases where neuralgia supervenes upon malarial fever or influenza, and in many others where it is the sequel of some prolonged illness, temporary residence in a dry bracing climate—such as the moun- tain resorts of Switzerland—will bring about a cure when all other remedies have failed. The treatment of neuralgia by drugs can scarcely be discussed in the present work, but it may be stated that in many cases ai’senic is an excellent remedy, and that in cases where gout appears to be the cause of the malady the usual remedies for this disease may be very useful. But whilst the vast majority of cases of neuralgia may be successfully combated by some such means as have been mentioned above, it must be admitted that where a local cause exists local measures are alone, as a rule, successful. Thus, the removal of carious teeth Avill often suffice to terminate an attack and to prevent others ; and if any tumour or inflammatory swelling is found to exercise pressure on a nerve, the removal of such a cause is evidently indicated. With regard to the extraction of teeth, however, a Avord of warning is necessary, for the pain is often referred to teeth which are quite sound, and the removal of these, hoAvever much the patient may desire it, is to be strenuously resisted. For such treatment, indeed, is of no avail and, on the other hand, is often most harmful, the gums being left tender and sore, and the patient having further trouble from insufficient poAvers of mastication and consequent dys- pepsia. In neuralgias of the extremities there is more often some local cause than in those of the face, and in this class of case, Avhere no local cause can be discovered, reliance must be placed rather upon local treatment than in the use of drugs. Counter-irritation by iodine or by blistering fluids is sometimes very efficacious, Avhilst in others, massage gives very satisfactory results. Gah^anism is also of use in some cases, especially in inveterate sciatica. It should be used for