694 DISEASES OF FTEItVES. (1) The sheath is partly loosened from its attachment to the nerve, and at the same time is narrowed, and so tends to constrict the tubules. (2) The blood-vessels of the sheath are torn, and ecchymoses occur. The vessels in the substance of the nerve become tortuous and dilated immediately after the stretching, and the nerve trunk becomes subsequently more vascular, by reason of the formation of new blood-vessels. (3) Thei’e is an increase of connective tissue cells in consequence of the injury inflicted. (4) The nerve tubules are torn in proportion to the violence used. The axis cylinder breaks less easily than does the myelin sheath and the sheath of Schwann. (5) In proportion to the amount of injury there ensues degenera- tion of some of the nerve fibres, such as has been described as resulting from section of a nerve. (6) In the process of time new nerve fibres are formed and the nerve is completely regenerated. The physiological effects of uevvc-stretchiiig also depend on the amount of force employed and the amount of injury in- flicted. It appears that very slight stretching increases the irrit- ability of the nerve, and results in slight hyperjesthesia, muscular irritability, and flushing of the skin area involved; but it is certain that in all cases where a nerve is voluntarily stretched by the surgeon, the conductivity of the nerve is materially diminished, and that numbness or complete anesthesia, and diminution or loss of muscular power, ensue in most cases. When a great deal of force has been employed, the operation may be followed by wasting of muscle and by trophic changes. The operation.—The operation practically consists of exposing the nerve by a suitable incision, and subsequently isolating and stretching it. If the nerve trunk be a large one, such as the sciatic, the finger, or two or three fingers, should be passed beneath it, and steady traction should be exercised, first in one direction and then in the other. The amount of force employed must vary with the size and strength of the nerve j even for the sciatic it should not exceed thirty or forty pounds. When the nerve is small and the wound narrow, as in operations on the face, the nerve is best lifted up and stretched by passing an aneurysm needle beneath it The stretching should be continued for several minutes. The so-called “bloodless stretching” of a nerve can practically only be performed on the sciatic trunk. In this procedure the thigh is flexed on the abdomen, whilst the leg is kept extended on the thigh, and thus the sciatic nerve—together with all the tissues around it is put on the stretch. The extension should be main- tained for ten or fifteen minutes under an anesthetic, and at the same time vigorous kneading and massage may be employed along the course of the nerve. It must be remembered that if the patient be old and the arteries atheromatous, this treatment is liable to put a dangerous strain on the popliteal artery.