SYPHILIS. 402 3. IVcui-o-i'Ctinitis may occasionally develop during the second- ary stage in one or botli eyes, and attention is directed to it by rapid failure of sight; sometimes amounting to complete loss. The ophthalmoscope shows the optic disc and adjacent retina to be blurred and hazy, and the papilla itself to be swollen, while the retinal veins are engorged, and the arteries tortuous and obscured at various points by lymph. Small hsemorrhages may be present in the retina, radiating from the disc. Opacities are often developed in the vitreous with this foi-m, as with some cases of choroiditis. The visual field is always markedly limited. Treatment of both the preceding lesions of the eye to be eflfectual must be prompt, and in either, if mercury be administered up to producing sponginess of the gums soon after the disease is noticed, the result is often most satisfactory. Complete rest of the eyes should be enjoined for a time, and it is often advisable to give the iodides in addition to mercury. When the choroi- ditis is recent or progressive, treatment should be long con- tinued, and surprising improvement sometimes results. When, however, the changes have long existed, little or no benefit can be looked for. Variations in the secondary symptoms.—The chief symp- toms of the secondary stage have now been briefly discussed, and in reviewing them, attention must be directed to the remarkable differ- ences in severity which we observe. Some patients, fortunately only a small majority, suffer terribly from the first development of secondary symptoms. In them the ecthymatous, or rupial erup- tion, soon follows the roseola; the mucous membrane of throat, li])s, etc., may be deeply ulcerated; very severe bone pains (with actual nodes) may wear out their strength; the glandular en- largement and general prostration may be excessive, and the secondary stage pass without break into the tertiary one. The term precocious malign syphilis has been given to these cases, and although it is most often met with in subjects broken down by drink or bad living, or with marked strumous taint, yet sometimes it is impossible to assign any such reason. In some cases neither mercury nor iodides can be tolerated, even in minute doses; in others injudicious treatment (causing salivation, diarrhcea, etc.) has been responsible for the worst features of the case. Secondary syphilis may cause death by oedema glottidis supervening on ulcers of the throat, or larynx, by early gummatous lesions of the cerebral arteries, or through the profound cachexia it sometimes produces. Its sufferers may be incapacitated by blindness from neglected iritis or retinitis, by obstinate ulcerating eruptions, or by exhausting bone ])ains. On the other hand, if well treated, the majority of cases develop few and comparatively slight symptoms during the secondary stage, and (provided mercurial treatment has been continued for one or two years) it seems probable that about 90 per cent, escape any tertiary manifestations. And even if little or no treatment be