160 ERYSIPELAS. The constitutional symptoms of erysipelas are very decided. Before an attack the health may have been good, hut the rash is usually preceded for some hours by a heightened temperature and feelings of illness. Chilliness is complained of, and rifjors are frequent, but not invariable. In infants and children convulsions usually take the place of rigors, and in adults epileptiform convulsions are occasionally seen. During the rigor the temperature is at its height, but it remains high, 103° to 105° Fahr., throughout the disease. The temperature falls slightly towards morning and rises towards night, as in the other specific fevers—acceleration of the pulse and respiration accompanies the increased temperature. At the beginning of erysipelas the tongue is foul and the appetite bad, and vomiting is common. The bowels are usually confined, but there may be diarrhoea, with black, offensive motions. Occasionally bile is vomited, and there is jaundice. Those subject to malaria are said to suffer from this bilious type of the disease. Headache and pains in the back, joints, and limbs are usually complained of. Epistaxis sometimes complicates facial erysipelas. Delirium is exceedingly frequent during erysipelas. It is worst at night, and may be very noisy, and accompanied by troublesome restlessness and delusions. Drunkards may develop delirium tremens. The urine may contain albumen, and nephritis is not an unusual complication of erysipelas. Those with chronic diseases of the kidney seem predisposed to its attacks. Duration and termination.—The duration of cutaneous ery- sipelas is uncertain. An ordinary attack seldom lasts less than a week or more than a fortnight. Sometimes the eruption wanders from one region to another {erysipelas migrans v. ambulans), and when each new area is attacked, there is an exacerbation of the con- stitutional symptoms. I have seen a case of this severe and dangerous type which lasted nearly three weeks. Although there was profound constitutional disturbance, and the temperature rose to 107° F., the patient, who was young and vigorous, with sound organs, eventually re- covered. In erysipelas ambulans the same area is never affected twice. In erysipelas, a fatal ending is to be apprehended when the strength fails, the respiration becomes quick and shallow, when the pulse is feeble and running, the tongue dry and brown, the mmd obscured, with muttered delirium, or when stupor and coma super- vene with the involuntary passmg of urine or fseces. A scanty flow of urine loaded with albumen would be of grave import, as indicating acute nephritis. Erysipelas often ends abruptly, the temperature falling almost suddenly from a high degree (103° F.) to normal, with a correspond- ing amelioration of the general symptoms. This defervescence is more common in simple cutaneous erysipelas than in the cellulo- cutaneous form, oi’ in cellulitis. It is obvious that no rapid change could occur in the inflamed and pus-containing cellular tissues of the last two diseases. In some subjects erysipelas has an extra- ordinary tendency to relapse after an interval of a few mouths. This