LYMFnADENITIS. 66J) ragged edges and the indolent grey slough wliich characterises the nutml glands nearest to the sore are early affected, and later those throughout the whole body undergo changes which render tlieni hard and prominent, forming what is known as the “ bullet bubo.” They rarely suppurate, except when the sore or its sur- rounding parts are inflamed. They, remain isolated, rounded, and very hat'd, or they may be elongated and moderately firm—the amygdaloid bubo—the change being due to efl’usion of plastic- material confined to the gland, and accurately circumscribed by its capsule, so that the surrounding cellular tissue is not affected. General glandular enlargement is very frequent in the secondary stage of syphilis, but possesses no distinctive histological characters. The capsule and tissue of the hilum are infiltrated with cells, and leucocytes accumulate in the follicles and alveoli. (See pages 388 and 398.) _ _ Chronic lymphadenitis often occur-s in the neck or axilla as a sequela of the specific fevers, and the source from which absorption has taken place may be impossible to detect. Where the glands of the neck are thus affected after scarlet fever, it may be presumed that the throat or tonsils are the site of primary irritation, or, in later stages, the external or internal parts of the auditory apparatus. The glands, once enlarged, become prominent, but are not painful, though they diminish in size or increase in accordance with the general health of the patient. The same condition may be set up by the existence of a carious tooth. The condition is characterised by an increase of bulk, causing the gland or glands to feel firm and dense and to attain a considerable size. It is due to a hyperplasia of the fibrous elements of the capsule and septa, and a consequent diminution and compression of the lymphoid tissue. In the diagnosis of these swellings it must be remembered that the border line between inflammatory hypertrophies and other morbid conditions of the glands is clinically extremely nari'ow. The treatment of adenitis is generally simple and satisfactory. The axilla and groin are the parte in which inflammation of the glands is most frequent, and the source from which absorption has taken place can generally be discovered by searching the regions from which the absorbents converge. The glands of the neck— receiving as they do the lymphatics from so many parts in which irritation may arise—are very frequently the site both of chronic and acute inflammation. The mucous surfaces of the posterior nares, the tonsils, and pharynx are amongst the deeper parts from which absorption of irritant and septic materials ai-e particularly liable to cause enlargement of the glands of this region. In the case of glands in the upper part of the neck, the scalp, the ear, and extei'nal meatus must be carefully searched for any source of irritation. The alveoli of the jaws must be inspected for any carious teeth or periosteal inflammation in the case of glands enlarging beneath the lower jaw and in the lower part of the neck, though the source of