167 CELLULITIS. skin from off the deep fasciae. In a case under my care the whole of tlie skin of the back from neck to nates was separated frotn the underlying fasciae. The skin was saved by numerous timely incisions, and the man recovered. When cellulo-cutaneous ei’ysipelas extends beneath the deep fasciae it may cause extensive destruction of tendons, necrosis of bones, and acute suppurative arthritis. As a rule cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas does not extend beneath the deep fasciae. Sometimes, however, the cellular tissues which surround the muscles, and deep vessels and nerves, are extensively involved. I have treated a case in which the muscles of the thigh and the great sciatic nerve were dissected out by the purulent inflammation, which also extended into the iliac fossa. The scalp is a favourite seat of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas. Here the suppuration invades the loose cellular tissue betwixt the cranial aponeurosis and the pericranium. It is usually confined by the attachments of the aponeurosis, and of the frontalis and occipitalis muscles. The post-mortem appearances in cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas and in cellulitis are very similar to those in simple cutaneous erysipelas. The extensive diffuse inflammation and suppuration in the cellular tissues form the most marked features. III. CELLULITIS. There is the closest clinical relationship betwixt cutaneous ery- sipelas and cellulo-cutaneous, and they are both due to strepto- coccus infection. There is no doubt whatever that streptococci are also the cause of diffuse cellulitis. I have found them in pure culture in pelvic cellulitis, and have seen them filling the lymph- paths in diffuse cellulitis of the neck (cynanche Ludovici). But there is also no doubt that diffuse cellulitis may be caused by other kinds of infection. {See Fig. 28.) One of the worst and most familiar kinds of diffuse cellulitis is caused by the extravasation of putrid urine into the cellular tissues of the perineum, scrotum, penis, and abdomen. Severe and fatal cellulitis also follows upon the bites of venomous reptiles and insects, and upon dissectiop and post-mortem wounds, and poisoned wounds of various kinds (Art. XV.). In many of these there is doubtless infection with streptococci j but at the same time other organisms are present, and are probably equally effectual in the production of the cellulitis. {See also page 91 ) In cellulitis the cellular tissues of any region may be involved. After parturition and gynsecological operations, for example, pelvic cellulitis may occur. When the cellular tissue of tne neck is in- fected from an acute necrosis or osteomyelitis of the jaw, or from an ulceration of the pharynx, tonsils, or larynx, a dangerous and acute cellulitis (cynanche Ludovici) arises. Symptoms.—In cellulitis there is profound constitutional dis- turbance of a type similar to that in cellulo-cutaneous eiysipelas.