417 TERTIARY SYPHILIS. It must be noted tliat these elements in the diagnosis are some- times deceptive, and that nothing but a careful examination of the previous history, and the results of anti-syphilitic ti’eatinent, may decide the matter. Mention has been made of the fact that mucous or erythematous patches are met with in the larynx during tlie secondary stage, but they are of trifling importance compared with the dangers of tertiary ulcers and gummata. Ulcers and stenosis of the trachea, and gummata in the lungs and bronchial glands, have been met with occasionally, but they are extremely rare, in comparison with tuber- cular disease of the same organs. Gummata of the lungs affect rather the lower parts—perhaps round the main bronchi—than the apices. Gummatous disease of the bronchial and mediastinal lym- phatic glands has more than once cau-sed death by pressure on, and obliteration of, the superior vena cava, etc. 4. Tei’tiary disease of the rectum.—The frequency of this is much disputed, especially with regard to the cases of fibrous stricture, which, as is well known, is more common in women than in men; and in the former the history of syphilis may be very difficult to obtain, and the result of giving iodides (when once a tough stricture has been formed) practically nil. Nevertheless, we believe that tertiary syphilis is the most important cause of non-malignant stricture of the rectum, and the lesions which may ultimately produce it are well recognised. In the body of a girl dying in the Lock Hospital (with no rectal symptoms) I have seen a huge gumma almost filling the pelvis and completely siu’- rounding the rectum. The result of such a gumma, had the patient lived, would certainly have been considerable narrowing of the rectum. More commonly the rectal wall (muscular and submucous coats) is infiltrated, with more or less ulceration of the mucous coat. When this infiltration commences outside the anus, and spreads within it, the term ano-rectal syphiloma is given to the condition, which may come on during the late secondary or the tertiary stage. In any case syphilitic stricture of the rectum is practically always low down, within easy reach of the finger. It is often com])licated with haemorrhoids, sometimes with ischio-rectal abscess and fistuhe. In its treatment, besides the use of “ specifics ” internally, the frequent application of some mercurial ointment, or of iodoform locally whilst ulceration exists, is of value; and when fibrous narrow- ing has occurred, the daily passage of a well-oiled flexible rectal bougie may obviate the necessity of an operation. Should the latter, howevei-, be required, linear proctotomy (a thorough division in the posterior direction—i.e. towards the coccyx) is worthy of trial. Inguinal or lumbar colotomy is the final resort of the surgeon in very bad cases. 5. Tertiary disease of the external g^enitals.—In the male sex the penis and adjoining parts may be attacked with gumma- tous ulceration, which is especially liable to start in the glans penis, and to destroy this and the pi-epuce. In the female, the labia and o