1002 DISLOCATIONS. uiox’e probable is the occurrence of what is, after all, an exceptional accident. Eversion of the foot is observed in these accidents, with, of course, free mobility under antesthesia, and any shortening can be removed by drawing down the limb. On relaxing traction, the shortening and deformity are reproduced. The line of separa- tion lies wholly within the capsule. Old hip disease, or congenital displacement, can hardly^ be mistaken for traumatic hip dislocation. Errors in these directions usually occur when a person, the subject, let us say, of an old dis- placement of the hip from pysemic inflanunation, gets a heavy fall on the part, and is afterwards incoherent from alcoholLsm or con- comitant head injury. It may then be hastily ass^ed that the displacement is recent. A warmng of this error is sufficient to wuard the reader against committing it. , • i ° In rheumatoid arthritis, the history of long-continued pain and lameness and the peculiar crepitus will serve as useful guides. Such cases are far more likely to be mistaken for fractures than dislocations. ^ e Anomalous backward dislocations.—The head of the femur may lie just below the anterior superior spine and above the anterior inferior spine, the trochanter being turned backwards and sunk into a hollow. This is termed the suprarspinous dislocation. The head of the bone has also been found just above the acetabulum, and has passed back- wards and downwards to the tuber ischii. In all these cases the head of the bone can be felt by manipu- lation under ansestlietics. There is considerable shortening, and in the dislocation downwards and back- wards, much flexion of the thigh across the middle of the thigh of the sound side. In the supra- spinous, and even in some appa- rently ordinary dorsal dislocations, eversion sometimes occurs, and the case thus much resembles a fracture. Eversion has been attributed to a continuation of the force violently rotating the limb outwards after the head of the bone has reached the dorsum some of the fibres of the ilio-femoral ligament, upon the ^ensio of which inversion depends. These cases are to be diagnos^ from fracture by tlie absence of crepitus, the sunken position of the trochanter, the impossibihty of bringing the to ite nroner length by traction, and the detection of the head of the feinur in an abnormal position. In the treatment, the Iiead of tlie