ULGEBATION. 106 not conform to the definition of true ulcer ; they must, however, be referred to in describing ulcerative processes. They may be classed under the heading of ulcerating tumours. I. THE CHRONIC NON-INFECTIVE ULCER. Causes. The causes which lead to the development of these ulcers are partly and, indeed, mainly local, partly also general. Local causes.—The chief local causes that lead to ulceration are those which intei'fere with the circulation of blood in the pax’t. 1. Anything which prevents the venous return, or which dimin- ishes the arterial supply, interferes with the nutrition of the part, and if the part so affected be already the seat of a sore, that sore is very apt to break down and ulcerate instead of healing. The most common obstacle to venous return leading to the formation of an ulcer is the presence of varicose veins. Where the veins are much dilated, the valves become incompetent, and when the patient walks about, the weight of the column of blood interferes with the onward fiow of blood from the part. Varicose veins are more especi- ally likely to lead to the formation of an ulcer if the small veins in the skin be affected. Persons may walk about for a long time with enormously enlarged varicose veins, so long as the cutaneous veins are healthy, without developing a varicose ulcer. 3. Then, again, the presence of an atheromatous condition of the arteries will act similarly, in that a smaller quantity of blood is brought to the part and the nutrition of the part is thus impaired ; and ff we have the combination of atheromatous arteries with vari- cose veins, the probability is very great that ulceration will take place, more especially if a sore be actually present. Indeed, where the circulation is feeble or imperfect, the mere dependent position of the limb is sufficient to keep up or lead to the ulcerative process, quite apart from the presence of varicosity of the veins. 3. Apart from the presence of atheromatous vessels, anything which tends to press on the vessels from without will also tend to lead to ulceration. If, for example, a sore have formed, say as the resifft of an accident, in skin over loose connective tissue, and the part be allowed to hang down, or a more or less acute attack of inflammation supervene, the exudation which is poured out into the loose con- nective tissue presses on the vessels and interferes to such an extent with the circulation in the part as to lead to the formation of an ulcer, and, as we shall see presently, this is the chief cause of exten- sion of the ulceration and the chief obstacle to healing in callous ulcGI*S 4. Further, a naturally weak condition of the^ tissues also favours the occurrence of ulceration, and hence it is that ulcers are much more frequent in old people than in young. .5. A similar condition is brought about by exposure to coW, espe- cially in persons whose nutrition is imperfect, more parRcularly ;is the result of bad food and bad hygienic conditions. One of the