78G imUBIES OF BONES. diagnosis of haemorrhage into the limb from a considerable vessel is made. Enlargement of the existing wound will serve for more thorough disinfection, examination, and suturing of the fragments as well as for the securing of the vessel. If it become evident that the vessel can be better reached through another incision, this will scarcely add to the danger of sepsis. In such cases the circulation should be arrested, all clot should be removed from the wound by rubbing with sponges and scraping with a spoon, and as much fluid as possible should be expressed from the opened areolar planes to relieve collateral vessels from pressure. In the case of a simple fracture with free hcemorrhage going on into the tissues, unwillingness to render the injury compound is natural, yet, as we ca.!! with great probability of success guard against sepsis in a wound inflicted by ourselves, and as this wound will very likely enable us to confer some advantage upon the patient besides that of securing the vessel, it is wise when the diagnosis of progressive hsemorrhage from a main artery can be made, to operate so soon as we can con- vince ourselves that the bleeding is not becoming limited in a natural way. To wait till gangrene is imminent, and till the limb is tensely filled with blood and clot, is to render the discovery of the vessel at fault and the restoration of the circulation most unlikely. When a case is first seen in this condition the surgeon may feel inclined to attempt to save the limb. He will probably fad, gangrene super- vening even should he secure the bleeding vessel; very likely he will not find it if the fi’acture is in a part like the upper third of the leg, where either of three or four vessels may have yielded the extravasation. Early and accurate observations on the point of appearance of swelling and the pulse beyond in the difierent vessels may be of much help in determining which vessel is injured —hence the rule to feel the pulses beyond a fracture in all cases. Whilst observing a case in which deep bleeding is feared, the limb should be elevated; some have recommended digital compression of the main artery for half to one hour in the hope that the bleeding vessel may be closed by clotting. When tension in the tissues is not already great, moderate uniform pressure by bandage over thick cotton wool, leaving the fingers or toes exposed, might limit the extrasavation; but there is an element of risk in it, and where tension is already great, no outside pressure must be used. The condition of the circulation in distal parts, and frequent com- parative girth measurements of the limb are the points to which attention should be paid. When absence of distal pulse is noted without excessive swelling about the seat of fracture, exact setting of the fracture must first be seen to, to eliminate (as far as possible) compression. Compressing splints and bandages should, if possible, be avoided for a time. The limb should be wrapped in cotton wool and kept slightly elevated, to facilitate venous return; this may be aided by occasional massage in the upward direction. Should gangrene result from simple closure of an artery it appears early. A circumscribed arterial hoimatoma may seriously inq^air the