378 HEMOPHILIA. dentition and at puberty. It is very rare for bleeding to be noticed at birth. The manifestations decline in advancing years, so that the disease is more marked in youth than in middle life; 70 per cent, of the first outbreaks fall -within the first five years of life. Often in spontaneous bleeding there -will be prodromata in the forms of flushings, a sense of heat, beating of the arteries, and restlessness. One peculiarity remains to be noted. There is a marked association between haemophilia and rheumatism. Bleeders are very liable to painful swelling of the joints and to muscular pains. The nature of this association remains unexplained. The swelling of the joints is very commonly, but not always, due to extravasation of blood within them. The knee is the articulation most commonly affected. This joint complication is quite uncommon in female patients. Mortality.—The disease, when marked, is very fatal. Most of the patients die young, and it is stated that more than 50 per cent, never reach the age of seven years. The first bleeding may prove fatal, or a great number of haemorrhages may occur before death. On the other hand, a patient may bleed once, recover, and never bleed to excess again. A few bleeders have attained old age. Treatment.—In the matter of treatment nothing, so far as is kno-wn, can be done to prevent bleeding in a known bleeder, apai-t from keeping him from risks of injury. In cases of spontaneous internal haemorrhage the patient should be kept at rest in the recumbent posture, the bowels may be made to act vigorously if the haemorrhage be not from the intestine; all stimulants must be avoided, and the patient treated with acetate of lead, in full doses, or with ergotin or sclerotic acid. Transfusion has proved of little avail, and indeed, when it has been performed, the bleeding from the operation wound has some- times added to the patient’s danger. In cases of traumatic haemorrhage the oozing may be best checked by a tampon soaked in perchloride of iron and applied so as to exercise pressure on the part. This is certainly the most efficient local measure. The actual cauteiy is seldom of much avail, and acupressure and the use of ligatures are apt to add fresh risks to the case by increasing the wound. Ice may have a good effect for a while, but on its removal the hypersemia that follows the use of cold may lead to worse bleeding than ever.^ In any case acetate of lead, ergot.jn* sclerotic acid should be administered. V^ry often these drugs—and many others that have been advised—have no effect. In the general treatment of the patient, calcium chloride has been recommended, on the supposition that it may render the blood more coagulable ; and also camphor and turpentine, from theii sup- posed power of increasmg the number of the white coi’puscles of the blood.