DISEAFIJUS OF JOINTS. 1092 abscesses. When this has been clone thorouglily, the whole cavity of the joint is scraped and flushed clean, and filled with a sponge. Stitches are then inserted in the skin wound at short intervals, but not yet tied. When all is ready for the final closure of the wound, the sponge is removed and the cavity of the joint is filled with iodoform emulsion, and then the latter is squeezed out as far as possible. The stitches are then tied, and the whole wound is accu- rately closed without any drain. It is then dressed with diy sali- cylic wool, put on in large quantity, so that, when bandaged, even elastic pressure may be brought to bear on all parts of the cavity. At the same time, the remains of the neck are forced into the socket by strong abduction, and retained in this position by the bandage which passes round the pelvis, and by the Thomas’s splint, which is at once applied. Over this dressing it is well to apply a covering of some waterproof material, to protect it from accidental wetting with urine, etc. After treatment.—Almost all the cases thus treated may be thus left undisturbed for nine or ten days, and when the first dressing is removed, it will usually be found that the wound is healed -per'primam. The stitches are then taken out, and a strip of wool is secured over the scar by means of collodion. In some cases, where a iittle of the tuber- culous matter has been left behind, or where the edges of the incision have been inoculated by the tuberculous debris passing over them, there will be evidence of the formation of tubercles in the scar at about the end of the third week. If this is the case, and nodules form in the scar, the whole of the latter should be included between two elliptical incisions, and excised; and if there is any of the abscess remaining, it should at the same time be scraped and flushed clean, as jjefore. Then the wound is carefully sutured once more without drainage. The same procedure may in rare cases require to be repeated at the end of another three weeks, but in every case where recurrence is evident the method employed should be that just described, until, finally, sound healing is the result. On no account should a recurrence be allowed to burst through the skin and form a sums in any case. All this time the patient may be carried about in the open air on the double iron splint, and, as there is no fever, the recovery of general health is usually rapid. At the end of three months or so he may be allowed to walk without the splint, but the latter should be worn always at night to counteract the tendency to flexion, which lasts for a long time. This method achieves the most thorough eradication of the disease with a minimum of removal of bone or interference with the capsular structures of the joint, and when the union has taken place satisfactorily in the wound, the limb is firm and useful. It is, of course, shorter than its fellow, but this not necessarily because much bone has been taken away, but because of the atrophic changes due to its not being used so much as its fellow. Indeed, if compaied with many cases treated without excision that have recovered well and without even sinuses, the amount of shortening and deformity is much less.