HEALING BY GRANULATION. 203 tissue cells. The function of the white corpuscles seems to be to remove the coagulated blood and lymph which previously glued the ed"es to<^ether, while the plasma cells very soon become spindle- shaped, acquire connections with the cells on either^ side of the cut surfaces, and, developing into fibrous tissue, thus unite the cut edges by a layer of young fibrous tissue. Very soon this fibrous tissue becomes more fully developed, and the union is, in the course of a few days, comparatively firm. In addition to the development of this fibrous tissue, young blood-vessels are also formed, though in the case of union by first intention this does not go on to any very great extent. As the fibrous tissue becomes older and more perfect, Fig. 36.—Granulating Wound of tlie Arm after Loss of a largo Portion of Skin. these new blood-vessels again disappear. At the same time that these processes are occurring between the cut surfaces, the epithelium at the margins of the wound spreads over the intervening gap on the surface of this cellular mass and com- pletes the union. This process of healing by first intention varies in rapidity chiefly according to the age of the patient, and also according to his general condition, the union being fairly firm in the case of young children after three or four days, and in older people within a week. The process is the same in the various tissues of the body, and the fibrous tissue which is developed tends to approximate in character to the normal fibrous tissue of the part. Thus in the dermis, the fibrous tissue becomes firm, resembling that of the skin; in the subcutaneous tissue it becomes loose, and fat cells develop in it; in the case of tendon again, it resembles tendon, and so on. 2. Healing by granulation.—In this process the edges of the wound are not brought together in the first instance, or, if they are, further causes of inflammation coming into play prevent the occurrence of union by first intention, and they subsequently become separated. Perhaps the simplest way of studying healing by granu- lation is to suppose that a portion of the skin and subcutaneous