381 NEUROMIMESIS. complete The mimicry is no doubt unconscious, if instances of de- liberate maUngering be excluded, and it is usually founded upon some triflin" local disturbance. Di’. Weir Mitchell reports the case of a hystencal "irl in whom was reproduced a mimic cerebro-spinal nmninmtis, after she had been fatigued by nursing two patients with the actual disease. Probably her head ached a,nd her back ached because she was tired out, and upon the foundation of these natural symptoms was soon built up the phantom malady. ^ It is to be noticed that in these mimicked diseases the patient has often a knowledge of the real disease in the person of some I’elative or friend. Hysterical joint.—The symptoms of acute joint disease are mimicked; the parts most commonly involved are the hip and the knee, and'the manifestations are often preceded by some trifling injury to the limb. The joint, to take the knee as an example, is very painful, is stiff, is becoming flexed, and cannot be moved. Ex- amination will show that the symptoms complained of are quite out of proportion to the physical evidences of disease. The pain is “excruciating” or “agonising,” yet there is no effusion into the joint and no swelling of the bones. The pain also varies, and is evi- dently in the main due to an exceedingly sensitive condition of the skin. It is a surface pain and not a deep-seated one. The painful spot is commonly between the femur and tibia, and if it be cautiously approached while the patient’s attention is diverted, it may often be pressed vigorously upon without producing any outcry, There is an absence of the familiar “ starting pains.” Inter-articular pressure causes no inconvenience. If the patient’s attention be absorbed, the joint may often be moved to a considerable extent, both actively and passively. Under chloroform all the stiffness at once disappears. In the case of the hip the position assumed by the limb is often quite incongnious, and the deformed attitude is lost when the patient is asleep or believes she is not observed. In time some swelling may appear about the joint, but it will always be in the subcutaneous tissue, and not in the articulation. The skin will probably be cooler than normal, but fluctuations in the surface heat are often noticed, and depend upon local vaso- motor disturbances. Thus Dr. Mitchell reports a case where the surface temperature of a hysterical knee was normal in the morning, but rose in the evening to 99,100, or 101 degrees. The temperature of the other or sound knee was always normal. After long-continued disuse the muscles of the limb will waste, and the features of the actual disease be even more closely imitated. The appearance of real disease is often encouraged by the treatment, as by continued blistering and frequent painting with iodine. Hysterical spine.—In this condition spinal caries may be mimicked. There may be a history of some slight injury to the spine, or the back may be painful from muscular weakness, or there may be a trifling degree of lateral curvature. The mimic disease is common at the I’oot of the neck in the region of the vertebra