TEBOMBOSIS. 561 trunks and different portions of these vessels may be the seat of atheroma and of primary calcification. It can be reco^ised by the rigidity of the Ltery under the finger, and sometimes by the irregularity that c^xn be felt when the finger is passed along the vessel. By lessening, and then destroying, the elasticity of the arteries, it impedes the circulation through the capillaries, and when the def^eneration is advanced, it also narrows the lumen of the aflectecl vessel* The part, therefore, is cold and slowly wastes, and sometimes it is tlie seat of ill-defined pain. This degeneration has great surgical importance, from three special effects that may follow it:—(1) -tbe intima is liable to become detached, owing to the interference with its nutrition by the rigid barrier between it and the vasa vasorum in the adventitia; thrombosis is then very liable to occur, and as a result of this, gangrene. (2) Under the influence of strain or slight injury, it is believe*d that the calcified middle coat may snap, and that an aneurysm may form in the thus weakened artery. (3) When from any cause—thrombosis, embolism, pressure, or ligature—a main artery is occluded, if the channels by which the anastomotic circulation have to be carried on are calcified, they are unable to enlarge in i espouse to the call made upon them, and gangrene may result. This affec- tion, therefore, plays a very important part in the causation of senile gangrene and gangrene after wound or ligature of an artery. Portions of hone have occasionally been found in arteries ; they are said to be formed in the outer coat adjacent to areas of calcification. Primary fatty tlegeiieration of arteries is a disease of very little, if any, surgical importance. It is met with principally in the aorta and the large arteries, and occurs even in young people—in them, it is said, from amemia. It appears in the form of bright yellow spots and streaks in the intima, which, under the microscope, are found to be caused by fatty degeneration of the flat subendothelial cells. If very advanced, the fatty degeneration may cause a little softened spot, which may give way into the vessel and form a very superficial erosion, known as fatty erosion. It has been suggested that such an erosion may be the starting-point of a dissecting aneurysm. II. DISEASES OF VEINS. Thrombosis and phlebitis.—Inflammation of the coats of a vein is called phlebitis; when it affects the intima it always causes coagulation of the blood in the vessel, and this is called thrombosis. It was at one time held that the presence of a clot in a vein was evidence of previous inflammation of its coats, and every case of venous thrombosis was spoken of as phlebitis. But it has been shown that a thrombus may form in a vein quite independently of phlebitis, although it subsequently excites inflammation of the vein. The two conditions—thrombosis and phlebitis—are therefore very closely associated, but they must be considered separately. Venous thrombosis.—A blood-clot formed within a vessel during life is known as a thrombus, and the process of its formation