ItEPEATET) FRAGTURE. EXUBERANT CALLUS. 797 fracture causing softening of the uniting material: in Tliiersch’s case, four small sequestra were found between the granulating ends of the tibia and were regarded as splinters which had died and caused irritation. Repeated fracture,—Violence will, of course, refracture a bone; but when soundly united, the second fracture generally occurs at a spot other than that at which the first took place. But cases are not very rare in which, from slight strain, bending or refracture has resulted at the seat of a previous fracture. Often the patient has got about too soon, has been too rash, or has had another fall—espe- cially likely when learning to use crutches; or he has occasionally made a strong effort to save himself from falling, and muscular action has been responsible. The accident is the more hkely, the more recent the callus and the less perfect the contact between the fragments — displacement necessarily leading to weak union. The great majority of the cases have occurred in the lower limb, and generally soon after removal of the splints; but a few have been recorded as late as one to three years. In a few cases also a bone has yielded at the same spot several' (6 or 7) times in the course of a couple of years. Callus is not always equally strong after the period given as the average for union. An over-average time should be given in patients in feeble health, also in severe injuries—com- minuted fractures, compound fractures, even though the course has been aseptic, fractures complicated by difficulties in vascular supply and those in which vicious union occurs. Care- ful examination and testing of the bone should be made before permitting use of the limb; caution should be enjoined in beginning its use, crutches should always have rubber shoes, and assistance should be given till their use is learnt. -those occurring 230.—Radius re- paired after Fracture about its Middle; cal- lus lias formed in large amount, has bridged across the interosseous space, and has formed a false joint with the shaft of the ulna. (Uni- versity Coll. Museum, No. 210 a.) Refractures seem to unite well early in less than the usual time; the frequently recurring unite tii'mly after a prolonged rest. Exuberant callus.—The free formation of callus about a com- minuted fracture, or one uniting with much displacement, is not ex- cessive ; it is necessary to bind the fragments together (Fig. 218). But sometimes callus forms out of proportion to the needs of the case or to the obvious irritation, forming irregular, sharp or rounded masses, extending more or less widely into the surrounding tissues, and perhaps causing symptoms by pressing on nerves, etc. It does