SUliOIGAL BAOTl'JltlOLOGY. 12 that sputum exercises a certain deleterious influence on many of the pyogenic organisms. Those found in the nose arc specially the pus- forming organisms and the bacillus of Fiiedlander, whilst under special conditions the bacillus of rhinoscleroina, the Bacillus foetidus oziensB and the bacillus of glanders have been met with, in addition to a considerable number of unimportant non-pathogenic organisms. The organisms found in the mouth may bo said to include almost every one that can be carried in dust, and in addition to those specially described by dental surgeons, the various forms of pneumonia bacilli, pyogenic cocci, the Streptococcus articulorum, the bacillus of tuberculosis, and the bacillus of haemorrhagic septicaemia have all been found. It is interesting to notice that the mucous membrane of the bladder, the uterus, the Fallopian tubes, and the urethra are in healthy individuals entirely free from micro-organisms, although dis- charges, when they have reached the vagina, may be found to contain pus-forming organisms. In cases of puerperal septicaemia, these pus-forming organisms are comparatively frequently found in the discharge within the uterus. 9. Methods of invasion.—The method of invasion of the body by micro-organisms, and the conditions that are favourable and unfavourable to the development of pathogenic micro-organ- isms may be briefly indicated. It was first pointed out by Lister that even in the case of wounds that were apparently aseptic, small points of suppuration often made their appearance around the stitches of the suture, and it was for some time supposed that these small points of suppuration were due entirely to the tension set up by the presence of the tight sutures. Although this tension, by acting mechanically on the tissues, may, undoubtedly, have some- thing to do with the production of pus, or rather with niaintaiuing the conditions under which pus is formed, it has been demonstrated that the actual pyogenic factors are bacteria, which, present in the skin, are only able to develop and manifest their presence under certain conditions. The presence of the tight suture interferes areatly with the vitaUty of the tissues; the cells which normally keep the micro-organisms in check are no longer able to exert then inhibitory action, and the great obstacle to the growth of micro- organisms is removed. Beyond this, however, in the slight serous eflbsion which for some time contains comparatively few cells, tUe pyogenic micro-organisms are enabled to develop much more ux- uriantly than in the less favourable excretory products found in the skin. The spaces between the strands^ of _ the suture absorbmg nutrient fluids, are also favourable cultivation areas for bacteria, which, enaliled to develop rapidly and along with then products to get a start of the tissue cells, acting on these ce Is, set iq> localised suppuration, the surrounding comparatively healthy tissues ensuring localisation by keeping the bacteria in chec s Wounds of the skin, unless protected, arc ® invaded by saprophytic orgaiiisiiis, but it may be laid do