921 TUMOURS OF BONE. invaded the soft parts of the fore-arm. In the upper tliird amputa- tion through the middle of the humerus would probably be necessary, so as to be quite clear of the muscles arising from the condyles. Central sarcomata of both radius and ulna should be treated by re-section. The writer has successfully removed both the upper and lower end of the radius for myeloid sarcomata, leaving in each case a useful hand and fore-arm.* llumei'us.—Disarticulation at the shoulder-joint or amputation through the surgical neck will probably be required for a sub- |)eriosteal sarcoma of the middle and lower thirds of the humerus. For the same disease in the upper third of the bone, the removal of the upper limb, with the scapula and a portion of the clavicle, may be the only effectual way of relieving the patient. An endosteal sarcoma of the humerus should, if possible, be treated by re-section, for even if no union can be obtained after operation, some mechanical contrivance will render the hand ser- viceable. Clavicle.—The circumstances in which this bone may be suc- cessfully removed for periosteal sarcomata are very rare. Bland Sutton t has removed the acromial end for a giant-celled sarcoma with success. {See Fig. 115.) Of the flat bones, the scapula has been frequently removed in whole or in part for sarcoma. The lower segment especially can be successfully excised; but the removal of the whole bone, and with it the arm and outer half of clavicle, which would generally be necessary, is a formidable operation, almost comparable in its results with disarticulation at the hip. The new growth is also nearly certain to reappear in the lungs. Portions of pelvis may at times, in quite the eaiiy stages of th(^ disease, be capable of removal, but the possibility of doing this will always be exceptionally rare. If either the skull, sternum, or pelvic bones are invaded by sarcomatous new growth, it will generally be found, on careful examination, that there is more than one tumour : a condition whicli would quite preclude any operative interference. This is especially the case in the subperiosteal sarcomata of these bones. And mon^ than one bone is then often simultaneously affected, when a wide and rapid dissemination may generally be expected. The prognosis of sarcomata of bone may be gathered from what has been previously said as to their malignancy. But after the tumour has been removed and examined, a much safer opinion can be given as to the probable result. It would be wise, therefoi’e, to withhold a decided opinion till the necessary operation has been performed. Carcinoma of bone.—As a primary disease, it is almost un- known ; in fact, it is believed by many to be impossible, as there are no epithelial tissues from which it could arise. Secotidary growths are • Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. xxra., 1894. t Clin. Soc. Trans., vol. xxiv., 1891.