38 SURGICAL UAOTEIilOLOQY. solution.* The tubercle bacillus and leprosy bacillus stain in mucli the same way, and it has been suggested that this organism is the leprosy bacillus which appears in syphilitic cases as the result of a mixed infection. Bacillus of rhinoscleroma.—Another organism of interest to the surgeon is the bacillus of rhinoscleroma, first observed by Von Frisch in 1882, in the newly-formed tubercular thickenings of tlie skin and nasal mucous membranes, sometimes followed by ulcera- tion, occurring in rhinoscleroma. It is found in the large hyaline cells characteristic of this disease, and also in the lymphatic vessels, especially near the surface of the tumour. The bacillus may be seen in the juice expressed from one of the tubercles. It is short, two or three times as long as broad, and has rounded ends. It may grow as a coccus, singly or in pairs, and appears to develop into bacilli or long threads. It may be cultivated on gelatine plates, giving rise to whitish- yellow round colonies which, under the microscope, have a distinctly granular appearance. In a gelatine tube the organisms form a peculiar nail-culture-like growth, like that described for Friedlander s pneumonia bacillus, which is white and porcellanous-looking, and is very viscid and sticky. There is on potatoes a slightly yellowish mass, which grows rapidly and develops gas. It is readily stained with the aniline colours, and is seen to be suiTOunded by a kind of capsule. Although this organism has been separated from the tissues of rhinoscleroma, it is so like the Friedlander’s bacillus, which has been described in the nasal secretions of healthy persons, and also of those suffei’ing from chronic nasal catarrh, that it is by no means certain that this organism has any special relation to rhinoscleroma. The main diflerences are that it retabis its capsule, even when cultivated on artificial media, and that it resists the decolorising action of Gram s iodine solution (page 51). Bacillus septicsemise hsemorrhagicse. — An organism or croup of organisms, important to the surgeon is the Bacillus septicsemise hsemorrhagicse, described under different names by different observers—the bacillus of fowl cholera of Pasteur, the bacillus of rabbit septicsemia of Koch, the bacillus of swine plague of Loeffler and Schiitz and of Salmon and Smith, and the bacillus of game or deer plague described by Hueppe. The bacillus of septicsemia described by Davaine in 1872, and separated from putri blood, was also probably identical with this organism. The organism found in the blood and cedematous fluid of animals aflected, is invariably a short bacillus with rounded ends, about l'4/i m length * Place in the solution (page 51) for fronitvvelve to twenty-four hours at the room temneratnre and two hours in the incubating oven at 40° C. The sectaons aM then washed in alcohol and placed for ten seconds in a 1-5 per cent, alcohohc soluUon of permanganate of potash, afterwards washed in a dilute aqueous Kiiltilnirip acid and then in water. It may he necessary to repeat thw opeiation ul, returning the sections to the permanganate) three or “coveS decolorisation takes place. The sections are momited m the usual nay. Cover glass preparations ai'e washed in water instead of m alcoliol.