617 treatment of aneurysm. that historic date tlie Hunterian operation for aneurysm has been attended with greater suc- cess than any othei’j and its details must therefore be carefully considered. As compared with Anel’s method, Hunter’s operation claimed three conspicuous advantages (1) It was sasier to cut down upon and tie a normal artery than to expose a vessel close to the sac of an aneurysm which might have seriously displaced parts, and even overlapped the part of the vessel sought; (2) it was free from the danger of injury to the sac, either by the surgeon’s knife or from inllammation around it. In pre-antisejitic days, when nearly every wound suppurated, this was a very grave danger. An incision which exposed the sac was very liable to be followed by sup- puration around the sac, which then sloughed. With our present knowledge and means of preventing infection of wounds this danger ]iertaining to Anel’s method has disappeared. (3) The third advantage claimed was that the artery at a distance from the aneurysm was more likely to be healthy and safely tied than at a spot close to the sac. There is no anatomical proof of this statement. Arteries close above aneurysms are not found to be more diseased than at some spot nearer the heart chosen at random. Further, with the use of aseptic animal ligatures, especially if so tied as not to sever the inner coats, even diseased arteries may be safely ligatured. To-day, there- fore, the advantages that a Hunterian operation presents over Anel’s are reduced to this—that in many cases it is easier of performance, and that it does not expose the .sac to the risk of injury. (See also page 519.) The Hunterian operation. (1) Effects. —As a rule, branches come off from the artery between the seat of operation and the aneurysm, and when the ligature is tied, the anastomosing vessels enlarge, and pour blood through these branches into the main arteiy below the obstruction. This blood flows on in a gentle, usually pulseless, stream past the mouth of the sac, and into it, if still patent. This flow be- comes more and more free as the anastomosing ..f T I r 1"!'.—Showing the Kesulfc or Ligature of the External Iliac Artery, for Aneurysm of the lower end of the yommon Eenmral Artery. A considerable length of the iliac artery is obliterated, tiiaiiance and Edmunds.) u *