DISEASES OF THE JAWS. 930 manner in which it deforms the skull, is fortunately rare. Its effects are confined almost entirely to the bones of the skull. It may attack the cranial bones, or be limited to a few bones—such as the maxillae, the frontal, and ethmoid. When the disease attacks the skull generally, the bones thicken, and encroach upon the cranial cavities; and in the case of the orbits, nasal fossae, ethmoidal cells, sphenoidal sinuses, and the antra, obliterates them. The nerve foramina of the skull are narrowed, and the nerves traversing them compressed. Of all the skull bones leontiasis ossea seems especially prone to affect the maxillae, and the leading features of the disease are dis- played in Figs. 361, 362. All parts of the bone are thick and dense, the antrum is obliterated, and the body of the bone, transformed into a solid nodular boss of dense bone, blocking up the nasal fossae and encroaching on the orbits, displace the eyeballs. Sir Astley Cooper stated that this woman (Fig. 362) presented a hideous appearance, even for Billingsgate, where she obtained her living as a hshwoman. The disease begins during childhood and, as a rule, progresses with extreme slowness, and rarely attracts attention until the protuberant bosses form in the maxillae. Gradually the nerves of special sense are nipped and their functions destroyed. The complete history of six patients is known. In one (Forcade’s) the disease was noticed at the age of twelve years, and the patient died at forty-five. The best known British case is that reported by Bickersteth. (^S'ee page 905.) From observations on a recent case, and a study of the available records of known specimens, especially the famous Jadelot cranium and similar specimens from mammals (monkeys, bears, and lions), the disease appears to be a manifestation of rickets. Treatment.—Nothing is of any avail in staying the course of the disease. When the bosses on the maxUlse are large enough to distort the cheeks, they may be easily removed with a chisel. Acromegaly.—The jaws, especially the mandible, are con- spicuously affected in this extraordinary disease, and produce the profound alteration in the physiognomy which gives such a marked character to this affection. {See page 904.) Actinomycosis.—This disease may attack any part of the alimentaiy tract, and has been on several occasions observed m the jaws, to which it gains access by means of carious teeth. The fungus (actinomyces) has been detected in the cavities of carious teeth, which seem to offer favourable conditions for its development. There is reason to believe that the fungus may be present and cause no harm. Occasionally, however, it gives rise to inflammatoiy troubles, which in their beginning simulate an alveolar abscess or a sarcoma. The swelling rapidly iircreases, involves surrounding tissues, and implicates the skin. Sinuses form and discharge serous or purulent fluid containing small yellow grains, wliich contain cluster of actinomyces, and lead to the identification of the disease, »e