655 INGUINAL ANEURISM. Inguinal aneurysm.—Aneurysms of the external iliac and common femoral artery are most conveniently discussed togetlier, for they are most common at Poupart’s ligament, and tlien often grow both up into the abdomen and down into the thigli, the sac presenting two lobes with a constriction opposite the fold of the groin. Syiiiptonis.—Inguinal aneurysm is commonly of slow growth and may be. long unobserved, but it may form a very large tumour in the iliac fossa; the part in the thigh expands less rapidly than that in the belly, owing to the support it receives from the strong fascia lata. By pressure on the femoral and internal saphena veins, the tumour causes cedema and lividity of the lower limb, and pain along the front of the thigh, or down to the inner side of the knee and instep, may be caused by irritation of the genito-crural or anterior crural nerve. The nakiral termination of inguinal aneu- rysm is external rupture and death from haemorrhage. I>ia.g:nosis.—Great care is often required in deciding the nature of a tumour in the groin; and when any special difficulty is met with, an examination should be made under an anaesthetic, so that the abdominal muscles may be completely relaxed. The conditions which simulate aneurysm are abscess, pulsating tumours, and enlarged glands ; in several instances, inguinal aneurysms have been opened in mistake for abscesses. The directions already given will enable the surgeon to make a correct diagnosis. An aneurysm of the aorta, even in its thoracic part, may extend down to Pou]3art’s ligament, and then form an external swelling, at first sight like that of an inguinal aneurysm. Treatment.—Constitutional treatment should always be care- fully tried before resorting to surgical measures. Where it fails, proximal compression or ligature, or galvano-puncture may be resorted to. Proximal compression of the lower end of the aorta by Lister’s compressor, the patient being under an ansesthetic, has been successful, and should be tried in all cases where there is no special bar to it, such as great size of the aneurysm or obesity of the patient. Distal compression of the common femoral artery and gentle direct compression of the sac may be combined with it. AVhere the aneurysm is low down in the gi’oin, ligature of the external or common iliac artery—by preference the former—has been very successful. But if the aneurysm is too high for this operation, the case presents great difficulties; ligature of the aorta has never been recovered from, and distal ligature has never been successful in leading to the cure of an inguinal aneurysm. In these cases galvano- puncture or acupuncture may be employed. Excision of the sac can only be practised in special circumstances, where the aneurysm is low in position, small in size, or is the seat of recurrent pulsation ; in other cases it is difficult of execution, and very dangerous from haemorrhage. The sudden consolidation of an inguinal aneurysm is liable to be followed by suppuration around the sac, owing to the looseness of the cellular tissue in which it lies. Wounds of the iliac