556 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. of strain in its causation. It is most frequent in the aorta— especially its arch—and the large arteries. It is less common in the smaller arteries, excepting those at the base of the brain. It is more common in the arteries of the lower limb than of the upper, because the pressure in them is greater ; and of all the visceral arteries the coronary of the heart and the splenic are the most liable to the disease. Atheroma is rare in the pulmonary artery, and is only met with when the pressure in the vessel is increased, owing to obstruction in the circulation in the lungs or at the mitral valve, with compensatory hypertrophy of the right ventricle. The disease attacks especially the curved parts of arteries and the parts around the mouths of lateral branches, and where the vessel is in contact with bone, as along the back of the descending aorta, at the back of the femoral artery where it passes over the pelvis, and at the front of the popliteal artery. IVaJied-eye appearances.—The disease occurs in the form of circumscribed raised patches on the inner surface of the artery. These may be in the form of circles around the mouths of branches, or in linear streaks, but are often oval in form ; they grow at their margins, and so tend to coalesce. When these patches are numerous and much raised they justify the term sometimes applied to the disease—arteritis nodosa vel deformans. The patches are firm in consistence, a dull white or yellow in colour, and they make the vessel less elastic and resilient. In the later stages flat calcareous plates are seen, and the edge or surface of a plate may be bared of endothelium, and then is liable to have fragments of clot adhering to it. In other cases, the atheromatous patches are softened down, and when cut into a thick grumous fluid escapes—an atheromatous abscess—or such an abscess having burst, a depressed pit is left in the arterial wall—an atheromatous ulcer. Pathological changes.—The disease begins in the deeper layers of the tunica intima, in a proliferation of the small flattened cells lying between the layers of fibrous tissue; this tissue also increases in amount, and in all but the more acute forms of the disease—called sometimes acute endarteritis—the diseased patches are formed in c^reater part of thickened layers of fibrous tissue with a few oval, flat, or stellate cells between them. Over this diseased area the supei^ ficial layers of the intima, with the endothelium, are continued unafiected. No vessels are deA^’eloped in the new tissue, and after a time which varies much in different cases, degeneration sets in. This* assumes two forms: most often it is a fatty degeneration of the tissue, but calcareous degeneration is quite common, and it may follow upon the fatty change, or occur independently, ihe fatty degeneration may be attended with softening of the tissue, even to complete liquefaction and the formation of the so-called “ atheromatous abscess,” the contents of which are not pus, but fatty granules, oil-drops, and crystals of margarine and cholesterine. it die liquefaction is less, a soft yellow patch is produced and it may be so entirely absent that the yellow area is dry and firm. Lastly.