352 TUBEBGUL0SI8. The evidences of transmission may be very briefly arranged into such as are furnished by experiments on animals and such as are derived from clinical experience. (a) ICxpcrinients upon animals. (1) Transmission by in- oculation.—Ihe fact that the disease could be communicated by inoculation was known for some time before the discovery of the bacillus. In the production of tuberculosis in animals by inoculation, the materials used in the experiments have been cultivated bacteria, or the products of tuberculous disease, such as sputum and the de- generate tissue of disordered glands, lungs, or joints. The infecting material produces at first only a local tuberculosis, which may be followed by a more general dissemination of the disease. That is to say, the first eruption of tubercle takes place at the point of inoculation, whether it be the skin, the peritoneum, the interior of a joint, or the anterior chamber of the eye. If the infective matter be introduced, with suitable precautions, into the blood stream, a more or less general dissemination of tubercle results. In the spreading of the tuberculous process from the original seat of inoculation, it is very noticeable that the lymphatics play a con- spicuous part in the propagation or extension of the disease. (Gomnare Fig. 62.) In the general dissemination of the disease throughout the body, the bacillus appears to show an undoubted preference for the tissue of the lung. The disposition of the blood stream will also serve to explain the frequency with which the lung is found to be involved in cases where the infection of the body is becoming general. The capacity or virulence of the material of infection shows, as may be imagined, pronounced difiei’ences. Inoculations with material from caseous glands will not produce so rapidly fatal a tuberculosis as will inoculations with the tissue of miliary tubercle. A fragment of caseous bone from the finger of a tuberculous child introduced into the peritoneal cavity of a guineapig was followed by an out- break of tubercles in the mesentery and mesenteric glands, and later in the kidney and lungs. The scabs of eczema from the same child, introduced in the same way, produced no result in the animal experimented upon. (2) Transmission by respiration. — Animals made to inspire tuberculous matter introduced into the atmosphere of a chamber by means of a spray have developed tubercles in the air-passages and lungs. These experiments are much modified in their results by the manner of their performance. If the infecting material used be fresh sputum from a phthisical patient, very freely divided by being intro- duced into a spray apparatus, the results will be as above described; but if such sputum be dried and converted into dust, and then made to circulate in the an- of a closed chamber, the animals contained in that chamber will not become tuberculous.