INJUTIIE8 OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 52G IV. THE CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. In a case of severe haemorrhage constitutional treatment becomes of great importance, and it is directed to three special ends : (1) the prevention of a recurrence of the bleeding; (2) the compensation, as far as possible, of the immediate effects of the haemorrliage; and (3) the speedy repair of the loss of blood. In every case of haemorrhage care should be taken to avoid everything liable to renew the bleeding; but it is only when the loss of blood has been serious that it is important to try to compensate for its immediate effects, and to secure its speedy repair. What follows applies to cases in which a sei'ious loss of blood has occurred. Indications.—(1) The first great indication is to secure for the patient the most conij>!cte rest, in the horizontal position if possible. This protects injured vessels from the local effects of move- ment, which may displace ligatures and coagula, but it is especially valuable as quieting the heart’s action, lessening arterial tension, and diminishing nervous, muscular, and cardiac exhaustion. The quiet and the lessened heart’s action produced by the “shock” of every severe injury and operation are most beneficent in their influence in arresting and preventing the recurrence of limmorrhage, and care should be taken not to hurry on “ reaction,” lest it lead to renewed bleeding. After a great loss of blood, I’estlessness is often a mai’ked effect, but it must be checked as far as possible by gentle, quiet restraint. (2) The next indication is to iiiaiiitaiii aJie temperature of the patient by covering him with warm blankets, and by placing hot bottles to the feet, between the thighs, and on each side of the trunk. The clothing must not be heavy nor tucked in tightly, especially over the chest and abdomen, lest the respiratory movements be in any way hindered. After severe haemorrhage there is great difficulty in supplying the tissues with sufficient oxygen, owing to the loss of the oxygen-carrying red corpuscles j the movements of respiration, therefore, must not be in any Avay impeded by clothing or pressure, especially as the respiratoiy muscles, in common with others, are weakened by the loss of blood. For the same reason, the ajrartment in which the patient lies should be thoroughly ventilated, no un- necessary screens or other hindrances to the free movement of air should be tolei'ated, and as few people and lights as possible should be allowed in the room. . (3) The third great point to attend to is the prevciUioii oI syncope, by favouring the blood-supply to the brain. The patient must be kept flat on his back, and all attempts to raise the head must be checked; in very bad cases the head may be allowed to be a little lower than the chest, and in extreme cases the hmos may be firmly bandaged and raised, to drive the blood out of them, and secure a more liberal supply to the brain.