2G8 INFLUENCE OF CONSTFIUTIONAL CONDITIONS. It is most important to avoid, when possible, any operation upon iniiamed parts. This applies as well to so small an operation as the removal of a pile as to the excision of a large tumour. With operations in the present sense are not classed such surgical measures as are employed for the relief of inflammation. Affections of the nervous system.—The mental state of a healthy patient as expressed by the terms “nervous,” “neurotic,” “ excitable,” “ apathetic,” has little definite effect upon the result of an operation or injury. The least favourable frame of mind is that marked by gloom and utter apathy, and by a morbid, stoical indifference, difficult to dispose of. Operations and injuries in hysterical or epileptic patients are apt to be complicated in their after-treatment by outbreaks of the nerve affection. While attacks of both hysteria and epilepsy are clearly often induced by an operation or injury, on the other hand a precisely opposite effect may follow the surgical measure. The insane bear operation unusually well, provided that they are in sound health and amenable to treatment, and of cleanly habits. In many subjects of chronic mania, of melancholia, and dementia, the general health is quite broken down, and as a consequence they become unfit subjects for any operative treatment. In those of the insane, also, who are violent, restless, mischievous, or of very dirty habits, the success of any surgical measures may be frustrated by the patient. In not a few instances insanity appears to have been induced by operation. The patients are mostly women, and the operation for the most part one concerning the breast or pelvic organs. The occurrence of this unfortunate circumstance is neither frequent enough nor sufficiently well defined to influence a surgeon in the performance of a necessary operation. It is needless to point out that injuries affecting paralysed Hmbs or the lower extremities of the subjects of locomotor ataxia can scarcely be expected to turn out well. The gloomiest forebodings are, however, often not realised. Diabetes offers a serious bar to any kind of operation, and injuries involving open wounds, hemorrhage or damage to blood- vessels are exceedingly grave in the subjects of this disease. A wound in a diabetic patient will probably not heal, while the tissues appear to ofi'er the most favourable soil for the development of putre- factive and pyogenic bacteria. The wound gapes, suppurates, and sloughs. Gangrene very readily follows an injury in diabetics, and such patients show a terrible proneness to a low form of erysipelas and of spreading cellulitis. Diabetic gangrene of a limb is determined by many causes, among which especial attention must be given to inflammatory con- ditions, atheroma of vessels and peripheral neuritis, Ihere was a time when amputation for diabetic gangrene was considered to be absolutely hopeless. Of recent years, however, this operation has