treatment of ANEUnySM. G23 the best to employ. The second method, which is the “old” operation, may be one of the most formidable operations m surgery, and up to tlie days of Hunter, many bold surgeons prefei red to Amputate the limb rather than expose their patient to the enormom prilnary and secondary risks from Inemorrhage, diffuse cellulitis, and Eam-rene Percivall Pott spoke of the event of the operation as “ always fatal,” and Hunter had not a single successful case. The experience of a century ago is not a sure guide to us in any operation. With amesthesia to secure perfect stillness of the patient, and to free the surgeon from all need to liuiy ; with improved means of hiemostasis, enabling us to operate without loss of blood, where formerly continuous bleeding not only exhausted the patient, but obscured the field of operation ; and with asepsis, ^ abolishes inflammation, suppuration, blood-poisoning, and secondary hiemorrhage, it follows that we must try to form a new estimate of this operation. Viewed from our present standpoint, then, the operation has two defects : {a) it may be, and often is, very difficult of execu- tion ; and (6) it exposes the patient to danger from injury of important structures. The risks from wound infection and fioni hiemorrhage can generally be avoided; it has the merit v hich belongs to no other treatment of aneurysm—that it the operation is successfully carried out it certainly “cures the aneurysm. Laigely owing to the great success of other treatment, this operation is rarely employed, but where proximal ligature fails to cure, it should always be chosen in preference to amputation. Unfortunately it is just in those cases in which the ligature is least applicable and least successful that excision cannot be employed. Several successful cases of excision of aneurysms have recently been recorded, and it is probable that this mode of treatment will be employed moi’e frequently in the future than in the century following Hunter’s memorable operation. 4. TBie introduction ot coagulating agents.—Manipula- tion of the sac ; acupuncture ; galvano-puncture ; injection of coagu- lants ; introduction of foreign bodies. Manipulation was suggested by Sir W, Fergusson. His object was to displace the clot lining the sac into the mouth of the artery. To employ it properly the artery should be compressed on the cardiac side of the aneurysm ; the sac is then inverted by the thumbs until its contents are felt to be displaced; it is hoped that the artery may be occluded, and the tumour cured by this means. The treatment has been occasionally successful, but it has been attended with such grave accidents that now it is abandoned. Employed in aneurysms at the root of the neck, there is great danger from fatal or very serious embolism ; in any situation it may lead to rupture of the sac or to inflammation around it. The manipulation of an aneurysm involved in its surgical examination has not unfrequently led to its rapid solidification, and such an “ accident ” is always welcome; but, as an intentional mode of treatment, manipulation is not now re- sorted to.