mSLOGATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 1023 Dislocations of the astragalus (Fig. 424). Causation and classilicatiou. — The fact that a bone deeply placed and strongly fixed, like the asti-agalus, can be forced out of its bed by injuries, is a striking instance of the curious results that may follow- extreme and composite violence applied to joints. A typical injury to cause dislocation of the astragalus would be the entanglement of the foot in powerful revolving machinery. It may also be brought about by very extreme and violent extension, in which movement the head of the astragalus tends to start forwards, and by similar accidents to those which produce disloca- tiojis at the ankle: namely, heavy falls on the extended feet, which are twisted and wrenched severely at the same moment. Oblique dislocations forwards are the more common, and in order of frequency we may tabulate dislocations of the astragalus as follows: (1) Forwards and outwards ; (2) forwards and inwards; (3) directly for- wards (rare); (4) backwards and outwards or inwards ; (5) directly backwards (very rare). In any of these disijlacements, rotation of the astragalus on its antero-posterior axis may also occur, and cases are related where the bone has been turned almost upside down. A curious displacement is also described, when the astragalus is ro- tated transversely across the joint. Such accidents are exceptional, and their symp- toms are suificiently obscure to render accu- rate diagnosis impossible. The forward displacements are assumed to occur when the foot is extended, and the astragalus advances forwards from under the tibio- fibular mortice. The dislocation backwards may take place in like manner when tlie foot is flexed forwards upon the leg, and the rotatoi-y displacements in the horizontal or vertical axis are sup- posed to occur when the foot is at right angles to the leg. Dis- location directly outwards and inwards is also described, even -without fracture of the malleoli, though this may well seem im- possible (Fig. 42.5). A large number of dislocations of the astra- galus are compound, the diagnosis being thus quite obvious, and the bone lias even been thrown clean out of the foot, and found lying on the ground. The literature of dislocations of the astragalus makes it clear tliat contusion has often arisen between this accident and the sub- astragaloid dislocation. The main distinction is the position of the head of the astragalus with regard to the malleoli, which is unaltered in tlic suli-astragaloid disloccation. Fig. 425.—Comiiound Disloca- tion of the Astragalus.