DISEASES OF NEBVEE. 698 may be easily exposed where it can be felt rolling over the subjacent bone, and at the wrist may be reached by an incision on the radial side of the flexor carpi uliiaris. The musculo-spiral nerve.—This may be exposed either in the middle or lower third of the arm. It is most easily reached in the former situation, and should be exposed by an incision in the long axis of the arm, in the middle of a line drawn from the front of the external condyle to the insertion of the deltoid. After the skin and fascia have been divided, the nerve can generally be felt rolling over the smooth surface of the humerus. It should be cleared by separating the triceps from the supinator longas and the brachialis anticus. Nerves <>f the lower extremities. The great sciatic nerve.— The course of this nerve is in a line drawn from a point between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter—but one-thii'd nearer to the tuber ischii—to another point in the middle of the popliteal space. In the upper part of this course the nerve may be exposed by an incision below the gluteal fold, the gluteus maximus being drawn upwards and outwards, and the biceps muscle inwards. If the operation be performed in the middle of the thigh, the biceps muscle must be drawn to the outer side, as in this situation the nerve lies to its inner side. Tlie internal popliteal nerve.—This may be found beneath the deep fascia in the middle of the popliteal space. The external popliteal nerve.—This can readily be exposed by an incision on the inner side of the biceps tendon, about an inch above its insertion into the head of the fibula. The anterior and posterior tibial nerves may be exposed by operations similar to those for the ligature of the vessels which accompany them. II. NEUROMA. Varieties.—Neuroma is a term which is usually applied to any tumour growing on a nerve trunk, whatever its structure may be. Neuromata are commonly divided into two classes : (a) true neuromata ; (6) false neuromata. (^See page 461.) (a) A li’ue iieuroHia is one which is composed of nervous tissue, and is a very rare fonn of growth. It may contain medul- lated or non-medullated nerve fibres, or else may be in part composed of cranglionic cells, with a surrounding network of fibres, but the latter variety of growth is only met with in tumours connected with the brain or spinal cord. True neuromata form rounded or oval swellings of small size. The nerve tubes of which they are comiiosed are usually not continuous with those of the nerve tiunk to which they are attached, but form an irregular network, mixed with a varying amount of loose connective tissue. (h) A false neuroma is a tumour situated on a nerve, and not itself containing any nerve elements. The most coniinon fonn o.