769 MOVABLE SPLINTS. V (2) The application of splints.—While the setting of a fracture fulfils the first indication of treatment, the application of some kind of apparatus is often necessary to fulfil the second ; a,nd in the o'l’eat majority of cases this apparatus is some foim of splint. Movable splints are those which, being applied with ordinary bandages, are easily removed and reapplied; they permit examina- tion of the fracture, and can be tightened or loosened as swelling subsides or increases. They probably do not limit muscular action and blood supply so much as the immovable varieties. On the other hand, they must be tightened up every few days, as the bandages loosen and get untidy; the disadvantage of this is much reduced by the use of webbing straps and buckles round the splints instead of or beneath the bandage. Movable splints are made of wood, iron, tin, perforated zinc, sheet lead, wire, poroplastic, guttapercha, sole leather, plaster of Paris. Wood is the material most commonly used, and there are few fractures which cannot be treated with fair result by anyone possessing a knife and a deal plank 4 in. wide by | in. thick. Another 3 in. by \ in. is convenient for children. Gooch’s “ kettle-holder " splinting (Pig. 226) is often very useful for certain frac- tures Special - shaped 2‘-6-—Gooch's “Kettlo-liolder Splint" Materuil splints — such as Carr’s, Cline’s, Hodgen’s, MacIntyre’s—are used with more or less advant- age. They are made in three sizes as a rule, and the aphorism that “ shaped splints never fit anyone ” is somewhat pessimistic. Most of the above forms of splints require padding. Pads are made of tow (vrhich is cooler than wool and less liable to become lumpy), covered with linen; but cotton is often used. The tow should be pulled into long wisps placed together, till the required dimensions are reached; the edges of the covering are then turned in and oversewn. The pad should be a little larger than the splint it is to cover; it is fixed to the splint by a zig-zag of stout thread passing from edge to edge across the back of the splint. A linen towel makes a capital pad; so, too, does folded boracic lint. In addition to the principal pads, minor ones are often required, especially to prevent pressure upon prominent points. Wool or lint is often used for this purpose, and it should never be placed between the prominence and the splint, where it will only increase the pressui’e on the point it is desired to protect. To protect a bony prominence—e.g. the internal epicondyle—make a “ring pad,” i.e. a thick strand of wool twisted into the form of a ring, the small central hole of which is to receive the epicondyle, wliile the ring of wool projects beyond it all round, like a corn plaster, and receives the pressure. A little extra padding round about may be necessary to distribute the pressure.