75 UHBONIG INFLAMAUTION. thickening, the application of the blister directly over the part may be of greater value than if used at some little distance away, from the very fact that it increases the activity of the vascular and lymphatic circulation through the thickened tissues, and thus aids the rapidity of absorption of the deposited materials. For example: in the treatment of callous ulcers a blister applied over the thickened tissues around the ulcer is one of the most rapid methods by which the disappearance of the exuded materials can be brought about. Where a blister is applied to a part, it should as a rule be left on for about ten hours; and if at the end of that time it does not seem to have produced sufficient effect, its-action may be increased by placing a poultice over the part. This may also be effected by rubbing a drop or two of croton oil over the surface of the blister before its apjjlication ; ot, again, where the effect is very slight, blistering fluid may be painted over the region where the blister had been previously applied. As a rule, however, where the blister is applied over the skin of the limbs or of the trunk—that is to say, over parts where the” skin is thin—ten hours ai’e sufficient to produce a satisfactory result. It is mainly in cases where blisters are ajrplied over thickened skin—as over the knee, where there has been much kneeling, or about the hands or feet—that there is trouble in obtaining the necessary irritation. After the blister has risen, it is not, as a rule, necessary to puncture it. A piece of thin muslin on which boracic ointment has been spread may be applied over the blister, and outside that a mass of salicylic wool. If, however, the tension of the blister be causing much pain to the patient, there is no real harm done in puncturing it before applying the ointment and wool as just mentioned, unless in very weakly persons. In most cases where blister’s are employed in chronic inflammation, a single blister does not suffice. The blisters must be repeated at least three or four times before one can feel satisfied that no good is to be done by this method of treatment; and therefore the directions usually given are that as soon as the first blister is healed—say, within a week—a second blister should be applied, which, it may be remembered, will probably rise more quickly and more effectually; and after the second blister has healed, a third may be used. In children, of course, where the skin is very thin, the blister should not be kept on so long; otherwise, it is apt to produce actual sloughing of the skin. Still more effectual than blisters in cases where the chi’onic inflammation is deeply-seated, more especially in deeply-seated in- flammation of bone, is the use of the actual cautery. The value of the actual cautery has been variously estimated by different sui’geons, some, indeed, stating that it is of no value whatever; but certainly, in my own experience, it has proved in many cases to be of the greatest benefit, and probably the inefficient results obtained by others may be in part due to imperfect application of the method. In employing the actual cautery for chronic inflammations, two methods are used—in the one the cautery iron is small and round (this is termed a button cautery) and a number of small burns are D* 2