230 WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS a completely satisfactory result, and probably the best method is to cut away the whole of the weak part of the scar and then to turn a flap over it from some convenient part in the neighbourhood. Thus where the scar is on the side of the chest, one may fasten the arm to the side and turn a flap of skin from the arm on to the cen- tre of the scar. In such a case a long flap would be required, and if it were detached at once at one side it would very probably slough, hence the method which has been advocated, more especially by Mr. Croft, is to be recom- mended. He marks out a flap of the proper length and makes lateral incisions of the necessary breadth, undermines the flap of skin, and then introduces be- tween this flap and the deeper tissues a piece of protective to prevent adhesion, and leaves the flap attached at each end till the mider surface has completely arranulated. He then detaches one end and turns the flap on to the granulating surface of the and after ten days sore, or a Fig. 41.—Arm bound to Side by Contraction of a Sore after extensive Bum. fortnight, when adhesion has thoroughly occurred, the other end is also divided and the flap remains in situ. Where the weakness of the scar is due to adhe- sion to the bones, one may also attempt to sepai’ate the scar from the bone, or even to excise the scar and turn in the flap from the side. In very bad cases, well, it may be nece.'^- the bone in order to especially where contraction is present as sary to remove the subjacent portion of permit the scar to contract soundly. For example, where we have such a condition over the elbow joint, cure will be obtained by ex- cising the elbow; and by such a method of treatment two advantage.s will be gained, not merely that a sound scar will result with the possi- bility of contraction, but that a movable elbow will be obtained. In the case of the leg it has been found necessary to remove an inch or two of the tibia and fibia, and thus shorten the leg in order to obtain healing of the wound; but as I have previously said, these troubles can usually be entirely avoided if during the course of the