WOUNDS OF SPECIAL VESSELS. 549 lumen of the vessel by endothelial overgrowth. In some cases the amputation substitutes an aseptic for a septic wound. The constitutional treatment of ha3inorrhage already described must be carefully carried out. The patient must be kept at rest, and a nurse must be in constant attendance both to attend to all his wants and to observe immediately any recurrence of the bleeding, and to arrest it by a tourniquet. V. WOUNDS OF SPECIAL VESSELS. Of the head and neck.—Wounds of the common carotid artery, if not immediately fatal, must be treated by a double liga- ture of the vessel, and if secondary Inemorrhage occurs, the artery may be re-ligatured above and below the first ligature; and if that fails to arrest the bleeding, the wound must be carefully plugged. Wounds of the internal carotid artery must, if possible, be dealt with by a double ligature at the seat of injury; if secondary Inemorrhage occurs, the common carotid artery and the orifice of the external carotid artery should be tied. When the vessel is wounded close to the skull it is quite impossible to ligature it there, and the surgeon must then trust to tying the artery lower down in the neck or the common trunk. Wounds of the external carotid ai’tery and its branches.— Wherever possible the divided ends of the artery should be picked up and tied, and care must be taken to tie the distal end, as the anasto- moses of the branches of this artery are so free. In the case of hsemori’hage from the deep branches of the external carotid, such as the internal maxillaiy, where the local ligature cannot be ap- plied, the external carotid trunk should be tied just beyond the origin of its thyroid branch; and if this fails to arrest the bleeding, the external carotid artery of the opposite side should be tied, as in such a case the continuance of the hsemorrhage will be due to blood reaching the wounded vessels across the middle line through the anastomoses from the other side. In no case should the com- mon trunk be tied for wound of the external carotid or its branches. In the case of the lingual artery wounded in the mouth, when tlie bleeding point cannot be seized the vessel may be tied in the neck where it lies above the hyoid bone. Wounds of the palatine arteries often bleed very freely : in the soft palate the vessel can be seized in pressure forceps; in the hard palate, if this be impracticable, a ligature may be passed by means of a fine curved needle, and tied ; and if other means fail, a peg of ivory or wood may be forced up the posterior palatine canal. The arteries in the face and scalp are often most conveni- ently occluded by a suture, which serves the double purpose of clos- ing the wound and arresting the bleeding; harelip-pins or silk sutures may be employed, care being taken to pass the suture beneath each end of the vessel. For the scalp, pressure by pad and bandage may be safely employed, as the underlying bone forms a firm surface for