BURNS AND SCALDS. The vesicles and bullae of the second degree usually break and dry up after their contents have become turbid. In the third, fourth faith, and sixth degrees suppuration and granulation follow, should the victim survive. In the third degree the suppurating surface is speedily covered with new epithelium by proliferation of that which remains undestroyed between the papillae. In the fourth degree, the parts killed by the heat, or by the subsequent acute inflammation, are separated by suppuration and granulation. The granulation tissue fills and repairs the gap left by the separa- tion of dead tissues. Inasmuch as the whole depth of the skin is destroyed in the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees, the epithelium which grows over the new material has to extend from that which surrounds the edge of the wound, usually a slow and uncertain process. The destruction of tissue caused by burns and scalds is likewise complicated by con- traction and cicatrisation of the reparative material, causing the most distressing de- formity. Joints become immovably flexed, the chin drawn against the sternum, the eyelids dragged from the eye (ectropium), and the nose, mouth, or ear distorted. (Figs 41 and 46.) Cheloid is prone to develop in the scar.® of burns (page 231). Effects on the body generally.— The general effects of burns and scalds are grave and often fatal. This we should expect when we recall that the skin is not only an organ abundantly supplied with nerves and blood-vessels, but is also a most important excretory and respiratory apparatus. When excessive heat is applied to any extent of the body, it is followed by (1) shock and collapse, (2) reaction and inflammation, and (3) by various local and general diseases due to bacterial invasions. (1) Sliock uiid collapse cause about half the deaths which result from burns and scalds (A. E. Durham). The amount of shock depends upon the age and sex of the patient, the situation of the burn or scald, its extent and degree. In infants and little children the effects of shock and collapse are usually excessive. The face and surface of the body, especially the extremities, are pale and cold, and covered vdth a clammy sweat; the lips are white and tremulous; the pupils a:-e dilated ; the pulse is rapid and almost imperceptible; the respirations are quick and shallow, and the contents of the stomach, bladder, and rectum are evacuated spontaneously. Children often have convul- sions; adults, shiverings and rigors. The temperature of the body is lowered; there is extreme mental depression and apprehension; delirium is not rare; the tongue and mouth are dry, with distressing thirst ; and restlessness, coma, and stupor are usual towards the end. Fig. 46. — ContraGtion of Wrist after Burn of the Fourth Degree.