790 INJUIilES OF BONES. passed, twisted, cut short, and hammered down. Some prefer pegs of ivory or hard bone driven through both fragments, silvered or nickeled screws, or an ivory rod fixed in the medullary canal of each fragment. The limb being now most carefully held, the periosteum is sutured round the junction, and the wound closed or drained for a short time. The further treatment is that of a compound fracture. Occasionally circumstances will suggest a special treatment of the bones : thus, an atrophied distal fragment has been thrust into the medullary canal of the proximal fragment; in one case, where a gap of 8^ cm. existed in the tibia, Hahn divided the fibula and thrust the lower fragment into the medullary canal of the upper tibial fragment, obtaining in nine months solid union and a useful limb. But a gap in one of two parallel bones has generally been ob- viated, either by cutting out a section of the other and shortening the limb, or by grafting bone into the gap. Thus, Nussbaum split off from the larger fragment, previously irritated by nails driven into it, a piece covered with periosteum and hinged towards the gap, long enough when twisted down to more than fill the interval. He suc- ceeded in two ulnar defects. Macewen’s case of building up 11 cm. of the shaft of a humerus, lost by total necrosis, with fragments of bone and periosteum crit out of rickety limbs is well-known. Volk- mann cured a pseudarthrosis in a child’s thigh by thrusting into the medullary canal of each fragment a splinter of bone which he had just chipped from the sheath of new bone in a case of sequestrotomy; a bit of dead bone or ivory might have done as well. Even after this treatment the number of cures amounts only to 50 or 60 per cent., and there is reason to fear that the cures were slightly more frequent in septic than in aseptic cases ; but the deaths and amputations in the septic cases have been by far the more numerous. Most of the deaths have occurred in thigh cases. It is probable that much better results would be shown by some surgeons than by others, for the skill and deter mination necessary to treat well a pseudarthrosis of the femur are. of no mean order; it can be foretold of many cases as they leave the table, that they are not at all likely to unite. CHANGES AFTER UNION AND YICIOUS UNION. Softening and absorption of callus may occur under the influence of depressing diseases during the healing of fractures (page 792). Rarely, under similar influences, softening and more or less complete absorption have occurred weeks, months, or even a year after Arm union has taken place. Scurvy appears to have been the commonest cause of this, then the acute exanthemata. Inflammatory processes in the limb, especially severe erysipelas, have also induced softening (probably inflammatory) of recent callus. These have almost always occurred in compound fractures with seqiiestra, bullets, or other foreign bodies retained. \ ery rarely an inflammatory process has arisen about a united simple