972 DISLOG ATI0N8. Difficulties in the diagnosis of shoulder dislocations —In thin or muscular subjects, when seen immediately after the accident, the diagnosis of dislocation can readily be made at a glance. In the very fat, whose muscles are large and dabby, a subcoracoid dislocation is overlooked with ease, and professional reputations are wrecked upon this shoal with unhappy frequency. I would make it a rule to examine the shoulders of any aged and obese person who has had a fall upon the hand or elbow, or point of the shoulder; for such individuals, especially when alco- holic, are often quite unaware of dislocation having occurred. When these cases are treated as bruises or sprains, the swelling subsides in some weeks, the muscles atrophy, and the familiar outlines of an unreduced dislocation are revealed with painful dis- tinctness. I would draw forcible at- tention to an ana- tomical point of extreme value, to which my notice was first directed by Sir George Humphry. The great tuberosity of the humerus is prominent beneath the acromion, and projects somewhat externally to it, and is there readily to be seen and felt on raising the arm from the side. If the great tuberosity be in its proper position, and this can be detected even in fat shoulders, the head of the humerus must be in the must be made when the great ruoerosiuy is the dislocated head, and the con- verse does not necessarily hold true that when the tuberosity has sunk inwards dislocation must have taken place; for m fractuie of the anatomical neck of the humerus, with displacement this may occur, the head still remaining in the glenoid fossa The latter con- dition is so rare, however, as hardly to need mention and I do not hesitate to look upon the position of the tuberosity of the humeiu with regard to the acromion, as the key to the question of disloca- tion^of^the shoul^^^^ most closely simulate dislocations are as follows-—(1) Atrophy of the deltoid muscle from injuries to Che circumflex nerve, or too long fixation after accident or m disease of the articulation ; (2) separation of the upper epiphysis of Fig. 3S6.—Attitude of the Arm in Sub spinous Dislocation. glenoid cavity. Exceptions tuberosity is separated from