4 8UR0I0AL BAGTERIOLOGY. erowtliR, tlie club forms being merely involution forms, the clubbed extremity being the result of an extraordinary development of the membranous sheath which, though marked when cattle are affected, is comparatively I’are in the human subject. 3. Methods of reproduction. Fission.—Micro-orgamsms divide very rapidly, the cholera vibrio, for example, under favour- able conditions divides into two, once in every twenty minutes ; others divide as slowly as once in an hour. Were conditions ideally favourable for the continuance of this growth, all otlmr organic life would therefore soon be crowded out of existence. This vegetative multiplication, however, only takes place when all the conditions tor the nutrition of the micro-organism are extremely favourable. Snores.—If nutrition or the removal of excretory products is retarded, or if there is an excess of oxygen—any of which may interfere with vegetative multiplication or fission —well-maiked changes take place in certain bacteria. The protoplasm in the antimax bacillul (Plate I. Fig. 4), or the Bacillus subtilis (m both of which spore formation is a very marked f^ranular, and a small bright point appears in each bacterium, t point gradually increases in size until its diameter may greatei than that of the original organism. It is then large, strongly refractile, round or ovoid, and is known as a spore enefospore or (see Mbller’s method of staining spores, page 51), which usually con- £ts Ttwo distinct portions-a dark limiting membrane called the exosporium, and the colourless highly retractile speck of proto- ^ircTued the eiidosporium. It was at one supposed^^^^^ the eiidosporium did not take on staining material readily, but it fs now Sd that the spore does not stain, simply because of the resistance offered by the outer limiting membrane to the pas_sa„ rXiU matte/; so deeply may the endosponum be stamed that it is now supposed that it contams a considei-able quantity o that It IS , a t is usually surrounded by a that ot the bacterium, it Sff. or pr„du1u3”p?d"X^^^^ are b- Lr-Lltit to uiihlroumble