428 SYPHILIS. producing a “ ground glass” opacity ; in other cases, the vascularity is the chief feature, when the so-called “ salmon patch ” is produced, a deep pink colour due to the minute blood-vessels. Leucoma, or a white haze, often persists for long after the latter has disappeared (though traces of the vessels can generally be detected as fine black lines by direct magnified ophthalmoscopic examination). Ulcers of the corneal surface, though not unknown, are an extremely rare complication of interstitial keratitis. The onset of the disease usually occurs between the ages of six and nineteen, though it has been met with as early as two and as late as forty years. Both eyes are commonly affected—often with an interval between the attacks—and the duration of the attack varies from a few months to two years. At its height the patient may be for the time nearly blind; but almost complete recovery is the rule, though faint opacities, or a certain amount of myopia (short sight), are frequent sequelae. During the attack there is always more or less conjunctival congestion, with a varying amount of photophobia ; slight increase of eyeball-tension is not unconunon. Interstitial keratitis is of great importance, not only from the serious loss of vision which it produces for a long period, but also for the valuable aid it gives to the surgeon in the diagnosis of inherited syphilis. Although granular lids may produce vascularity of the surface of the cornea, and the nebulae left by multiple ulcers may simulate the remains of the syphilitic affections, yet true interstitial keratitis is always due to syphilis, and practically always to the inherited disease. It should be mentioned that occasionally relapses occur, even with an interval of many years. , j i Iritis and choroiditis.—li^ammation of the ms has already been noted to develop occasionally in infants, but it is more common as a complication of interstitial keratitis; and since the latter may obscure the symptoms and diagnosis of the iritis, it is a wise rule to keep the pupils dilated by the occasional use of atropine during the attack of the keratitis. Choroiditis or retino-choroidit^ ^ occurs in the form of disseminated pigmentary or atrophic (white) patches, situated in the periphery, i.e. away from the optic disc and yellow-spot region. Vision in these cases is but little or not at all defective, though occasionally the changes simulate those of retmitis pio-mentosa, and may cause narrowing of the visual field, etc. Should the yellow-spot region or the central part of the retina be involved, the sight is liable to be markedly impaired. ^ Ovtic neuritis with sometimes consecutive atrophy is a ratlier rare condition in inherited syphilis, and is probably due, as a ru e, to an intracranial gumma or meningeal inflammation . 3 Diseases of the hones.—It has been noted that in infantile syphilis the long bones are not infrequently inflamed and thickened toLrds the joint ends. A similar condition, only its nature is met with at a later period, often coincident with the ffjk "ristitial keratitis. The lower ends of the Inunerus and