488 tUMOtlRb. liable to three defects directly associated -with dermoids. They may fail to close j tlieu such faults as hare-lip, cleft-palate, macro- stoma, cleft-sternum, and spina biiida are the consequences, according to the seat of failure. The clefts may close imperfectly and leave complete or incomplete hstulse, which receive such names as post- anal or coccygeal dimples, sternal dimples, mandibular fistulse, and the like. A fissure may to superficial appear- ances close perfectly, but a tract of epithe- lium lies buried be- tween the opposed and coalescing surfaces; this buried skin or epithelium may grow and form a dermoid. Sequestration der- moids usually assume a cystic form; that is, the skin forms the wall of a central caAuty, which gradually en- larges as the individual grows, and becomes occupied and distended by the shed epithebum, hair, and products of the glands occupying the skin lining the cyst. Hair, sebaceous and sweat glands are usually present. Teeth are ex- Fig. 129.—Dermoid simulating Spiua Bifida in an Adult. cessively rare in this genus of dermoids. Exceptionally, dermoids take the form of solid tumours, the skin clothing the exterior; still more rarely they are pedunculated. Dermoids arising in fissures are very common near the angles of the orbits, especially the outer angle (Fig. 128), and are not un- common in the pinna or auricle; they are fairly common over the lumbo-sacral vertebrse, where they are apt to be mistaken for spina bifida (Fig. 129). Some have been reported in relation with the anterior and posterior aspect of the sternum (Fig. 130). They also occur in relation with the middle line of the scrotum, and are often reported as testicular dermoids. ... An important species of sequestration dermoid arises in connec- tion with the scalp. In the embryo the scalp and the dura mater are in contact; later the cranial bones interpose and separate them. Pieces of the scalp may be retained in connection with the dura mater, and, acting as tumour-germs, may grow into dermoids.