59 ENDING8 OF INFLAMMATION. surrounding the blood-vessels (Fig. 9). Not only do the white cor- puscles migrate through the walls of the blood-vessels, but a certain number of red corpuscles also pass out, in some cases in considerable numbers. This migration of white corpuscles seems to go on most actively through the smaller veins, but it also occurs through the capillaries, and perhaps also through the small arteries. The exudation of the red corpuscles apparently occurs mainly through the walls of the capillaries. As to the explanation of the migration of these corpuscles, it is most usually assumed that the white corpuscles pass out by virtue of their amoeboid movement, being to some extent helped by the blood pressure, and that the red corpuscles pass out solely as the result of that pressure. It may be remarked that this migration ceases when complete stasis takes place. At the same time that this migration of blood corpuscles is going on, certain of the fluid elements of the blood pass out—sometimes in large quantities—giving rise to marked swelling of the tissues. This blood plasma coagulates outside the vessels, and consequently the resulting swelling is of a firm, hard character at the focus of the inflammation. Where the vessels are dilated reflexly at the margin of the inflammation, there is also a certain amount of exudation, more especially of fluid, from the blood-vessels, but this fluid does not coagulate, and consequently the parts around, instead of being hard and brawny, are cedematous, and pit on pressure. The essential feature of this stage, therefore, is exudation, but the character and the amount of the exuded material vary much in difierent cases, and in some instances give a definite type to the disease. As I have said, the exudation in typical cases coagulates in the part, but in certain forms of inflammation this coagulation is only imperfect, and there is what is spoken of as a sevo-fibrinous exudation; while in some cases coagula tion does not take place at all, and we have a serous exudation. Where the inflammation affects a mucous surface, the exudation contains not only fibrin, but mucin and some dead epithelial cells (superficial layer), and is spoken of as a croupous exudation. In other cases, again, there is a large admixture of red blood corpuscles with the exudation, for example, where the inflammation is very intense, as in some forms of bacteric disease, or where the walls of the blood-vessels are very friable, as in cancerous pleurisy and so on, these exudations beino- spoken of as hcemorrhagic. The terminations of inflammation. — So far, I have ex- plamed the phenomena of the early stage of inflammation, and when this stage has been completed, several things may happen. In the first place, the inflammation may come to a standstill, and, at once, changes leading to restoration of the part to a state of health take place, in other words, resolution occura. By resolution, we^ mean the complete restoration of the iiart to its normal condition; the walls of the blood-vessels gradually recover the stasis passes off, and the circulation becomes re-established! e exuded materials become re-absorbed, passing either into the