ANEUHYSM. 596 distinguished from the sac or wall of any other tumour by the exist- ence of many spaces between the layers of fibres composing it; these spaces are filled with loose connective tissue, and their occurrence is said to be due to the pulsation in the aneurysm. In a small aneurysm, therefore, the sac consists in part or in whole of the coats of the artery. In a medium-sized aneurysm the sac is formed practically entirely by a new growth of fibrous tissue firmly incorporated with the remains of the outer arterial coat; the new tissue is the product of chronic ]>eri-arteritis, and is some- times supplemented by the organisation of adherent clot. In very large aneurysms another condition is introduced. As the tumour grows, it presses upon and displaces the surrounding parts ; some of these are atrophied, some are flat- tened out, but it often hai^pens that some of them become em- bedded in the constantly-forming new fibrous tissue, so that in the sac of a large aneurysm, tendons, fascirn, ligaments, nerves, vessels, cartilages, and bones may be found matted together by fibrous tissue. The typical sac, therefore, is a new formation of fibrous tissue, and it is this fact which explains the special features of the life-history of sacculated aneurysms. The outline of the sac de- pends chiefly upon three circum- stances. The primary tendency is for the aneurysm to assume a globular form, owing to the equality of fluid pressure in all directions. This is modified by the unequal resistance offered by the surrounding structures, as well as by the effect of the direct impact of the blood-stream upon that part of the sac opposite its mouth. But if a clot adheres to part of the sac and becomes organised, it strengthens the sac at this spot, and the chief growth then takes place where the sac is thinner and weaker. The contents of every uncured sacculated aneurysm consist in part at*least of ordinary arterial blood, which after death appears as a soft black blood-clot. In nearly all cases, more or less clotting of the blood occurs during life, and these clots play a most important part in the history of an aneurysm. The clots vary greatly in amount, in arrangement and in appearance. They ,'ai'e usually found in concentric layers pressed firmly against the sac, many of the layers being firm and almost colourless, others being softer and more granular, and coloured wdth varying shades of red and brown. The coagulation results from the adhesion of the ferment-containing corpuscles to the iirterior of the sac, and their subsequent disinte- Fig. 171.—Sacculated Aneurysm of Com- mon Carotid Artery. a, Common carotid artery; 6, ext. carotid artery j c. int. carotid artery; d. sac of aneu- rysm ; e, laminated clot partly filling sac.