620 INJUHIE8 OF BLOOD-VESSELS. in a wound, the force of the blood tends not only to open it, but to push off the ligature, and the movement of the part, the twitchings of muscles, the adaptation of flaps, etc., may have the same tendency. To guard against this, it is customary to tie with such an amount of force as will certainly sever the two inner coats j but it should be clearly appi’eciated that this is merely to get a sufiiciently firm hold upon the vessel—to prevent the ligature from being pu.slied or dragged ofi"— and not at all for any advantage accruing from division of the.se coats. Happily, the disadvantage of the partial division of the vessel is reduced to a minimum in cases of amputation or of the removal of parts, for the blood pressure in .the ligated arteries falls, as a result of the removal of the pai'ts supplied by them. The closure of the artery at once stops all bleeding from it, and quickly the blood within it coagulates upon the ends of the divided coats. This clot gradually extends, until, in about three days, it fills the vessel, more or less exactly, as far as the lateral branch nearest to the ligature. It is conical in shape, and adheres first and most firmly to the divided vessel wall (Fig. 147); when the wound and the ligature are aseptic, the clot may be very limited in extent, and not re-ach so far as the nearest branch. It may, later, dis- integrate and disappear. (b) The repair of a ligatured artery.—^When an artery has been divided and its ends tied, its repair is modified in two or three important ways. In the fir.st place, its uiner coats are severed by the ligature, and the end of the vessel is closed in by the thin outer coat only, surrounded and sup- ported by the ligature. This wound in the coats forms a large surface for the attachment of the in- ternal clot, and the leucocytes and plasma cells enter the clot freely and easily at the same spot. In the next place, the constricted ring of the outer coat and the end of the vessel beyond it die, as the result of their total anaemia, and are absorbed by the myiiads of leucocytes which are poured out around them, and quickly pass into them. Thirdly, the liga- ture itself is either absorbed, encapsuled, or cast oflf. In an aseptic wound, a readily absorbable ligature, such as catgut, is rapidly absorbed ; a more resistant structure, such as silk oi unspun silk, may be slowly absorbed, or it may lie at the side of the \essel encapsuled in firm cicatricial tissue. In a septic wound, catgut may be quickly liquefied, and only the kno-t come away in the discharge j but sometimes the ligature comes away entire, having “ ulcerated ” through the tied end of the artery. Silk, tendon, and wire ligatures are always thus separated in septic wounds. The ligature of a divided artery, therefore, complicates the process I'ig. 147.—Ligatured Artery laid open, sliowing the inter- nal Clot adherent to the Artery below, free and tapering above where it reaches up to a branch.