276 anaesthetics. most recent modification of this apparatus. From 2 to 4 drachms of the purest ether sdiould be poured upon the previously moistened sponge, and the face-piece gradually applied. Swallowing, tem- porarily suspended breathing, and coughing are not uncommon even with care. Excitement and struggling are more frequently met with than when using Clover’s apparatus. Gradually, how- ever, the breathing becomes more regular and stertorous, and the usual signs ot ether anaesthesia appear. Fresh air should be allowed by removing the inhaler, about as' often as with Clover’s inhaler! This method is inferior to Clover’s for inducing anaesthesia • but when consciousness has been destroyed by nitrous oxide or A. 0. E. mixture, Ormsby’s inhaler is particularly useful maintaining amesthesia with ether. 6. By ether. “Open” nictliod.—A towel folded into uuc shape of a cone, at the apex of which a sponge wrung out of tepid water is placed, may be employed ; but a Rendle’s mask (Fig. 50) of leather or celluloid, partly covered with domett, is more convenient. The ether should be gradually given at first; but when excitement commences the anaesthetic should be freely pushed, and the usual signs of anaesthesia will be produced, though often rather tardily. The method is wasteful and inferior to others for general use. It may be advantageously chosen, however, in cases in which air limitation would be open to objection, and in those in which very little anaesthetic indeed is needed. the for the Fig. 50.—Rendle’s Mask, made fi-om Celluloid. 7. By nitrous oxide, followed by ether.— These anaes- thetics may be thus given in succession. An ordinary nitrous oxide apparatus (Fig. 47) and an Ormsby’s ether inhaler (Fig. 49) are employed. Nitrous oxide is administered in the usual way till jerky respiration and clonus occur. One inspiration of air is then allowed, and the ether inhaler, previously charged with ether, is applied during the following expiration. The next few inspirations are usually cut short or prevented by the strong ether vapour, and con- siderable cyanosis is occasioned for a few moments. Respiration soon becomes more regular, howevei’, and at this juncture fresh air may be allowed in sufficient quantity to re-establish the colour. When ansesthetising children, feeble subjects, and old persons, some- what more air should be allowed during the transition from “ gas ” to ether than is generally advisable. This particular method is Avell adapted for anajsthetising children, adolescents, and very ner^mus women. Nitrous oxide and ether may also be given together by employing the stopcock and gas-bag of Fig. 47 fitted to a Clover’s inhaler (Fig. 48). The bag, filled with “gas,” is attached to the charged ether chamber, and the face-piece is applied. Air is at first breathed; nitrous oxide is then turned on, and half the “ gas ” breathed out through valves; the remaining half is then breathed to