WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 208 much blood has been lost, we may have during the first twenty- four hours the condition spoken of as aseptic fever. In the first instance in such cases the temperature generally falls below normal, as the result of the shock and loss of blood. Following this fall there is a reactionary rise of temperature, so that within twenty- four or thirty-six hours after the operation the temperature may have reached 100" or even 101°. Where the wound is aseptic the temperature does not remain at this point, but immediately after- wards falls again to normal, and during this period of slight elevation of the temperature the patient does not suffer from any other symptoms of fever. This is what is spoken of as the aseptic temperature, and the aseptic course of the wound is where there is no inflammation in it. Whether the wound be united throughout its whole extent or be left open, where there is no general disturbance and no elevation of temperature beyond that mentioned just now, it will be found that after the effects of the anesthetic have passed off the patient is to all intents and purposes quite well, unless where the operation has been so extensive, and where the blood lost has been so great as to cause excessive weakness.* On the other hand, where the wound is not aseptic—for example, in wounds where the healing takes place by granulation—there will be more or less constitutional disturbance. In the first instance the temperature rises very soon after the operation, and reaches its highest point within twenty-four to forty-eight hours—usually 103° or 104°. It remains at about this height for three or four days, and then pretty rapidly falls to normal. During this period the wound is painful, the edges are red and swollen, and there is a considerable amount of discharge from it, while the patient suffers from the various symptoms of fever—namely, quick pulse, loss of appetite, arrest or diminution of the excretions, and the various symptoms described in speaking of acute inflammation. This is the condition known as traumatic or inflammatory fever, and is due to absorption from the wound of septic products which have been developed by the bacteria growing in it, more especially by the pyogenic bacteria. Where the wounds are very lai’ge and contain a quantity of decom- posing blood, a large amount of the chemical substances may be rapidly absorbed, producing the condition known as septic intoxication or saprcemia. In this condition there is usually a rapid rise of tem- perature with a very rapid, feeble pulse, and great exhaustion of the patient ; indeed, in very bad cases, after the preliminary rise of temperature, it again falls, and the patient passes into a state of collapse and may die. Formerly, this condition was not recognised as being due to septic absorption, and was spoken of as secondary shock; but we now know that the great majority of the cases of so- called secondary shock are in reality cases of acute septic poisoning. Further, during the early period of these septic wounds the initial temperature of traumatic fever may not fall when the wound