INFLAMMA TION. 76 made. In the otlier, which is much more effectual, the flat cautery, which is large and flat, is used, and with it one, or at most two, large sores are produced. In applying the cautery, the skin should in the first instance be shaved for a considerable distance around, otherwise the hairs are very apt to prove a source of annoyance after the eschar has separated. The cautery itself should be at a white heat, and in the case of the flat cautery the iron is passed twice or three times over the region to be treated. If the cautery be not at a white heat, one has no Tuide as to the degree of burning that will be produced. We know that with a white-hot cautery a sufficient effect wiU be produced by passin" it over the part two or three times ; but where it is only red- Lt, one is very apt to do either too much or too little. The same rule applies to the button cautery, which, however, -is not rubbed over the part, but is simply pressed on it. After the application ^he cautery, poultices—which had better be aseptic poultices are applied for a few days till the slough separates, and the best effect is pr^ duced where only about half the thickness of the skin is destroyed. Less "ood is done where the whole thickness of the skin sloughs. On the other hand, where only half the thickness of the skm is destroyed, the sore is, no doubt, a more painful one, because many delicate nerve terminations are exposed; but, as I have said, the effect is also greater. , ,, , After the eschar has separated, the sore should be prevented from healing for from four to six weeks, and this is usually done by . the employment of savin ointment. The omtment is spread thickly on muslin, and changed once or twice a day. Many patients, however, complain greatly of the pain of th^ application, and ^ is more especially the case where only a superficial portion of ^be skm has been destroyed; and in these cases the ordinary savm omtment should be diluted with two or three parts of vaselme. In some cases indeed, the pain is so severe that this ointment cannot be employed at all • and m these instances all that one can do in the way of pre- ve.Sng healing is every day or two to touch the surface of the sore with nitrate of silver wherever epithelial formation is CTideirt, ami where this is not sufficient, and healing occurs in spite of it the soie maTbe opened up by the use of potassa fusa. At the end of about six weeks the sore is allowed to heal. . . 4. + .af Another method which is of great value m the treatment of chronic inflammations is the employment inflamed part. Where these inflammations are not dependent o lome specific disease, such as tubercle or syphilis, simple mcision some specmc secreting fluid, ?*^*^nl^e ^of tlm sac will usually suffice to arrest the inflammation. Srfmole pSl7 >e cone whore the teat of the inaa.nmat.on rS.rner.oeSum or the hone. In cases of chrome per.osUt.s and osteitis^by far the most efficient treatment is to cut down very fret, y osteitis, y riicpase divide the thickened periosteum, and, in on the seat of the ^ ^ ^ ^ trough in the thickened fact, dissect away most of it, ana tnen °