5 List of OUnical Maaiuals (continued). Syphilis. By Jonathan Hutchinson, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the London Hospital and to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. With 8 Chromo Plates. Seventh Thousand. 9s. “The student, no matter what may be his age, will find in this compact treatise a valuable presentation of a vastly important subject. We know of no better or more comprehen^ve treatise on Medical News^ Philadtlphia, Surgical Diseases of the Kxdney. By Henry Morris, M.B., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, Middlesex Hospital. With 6 Chromo Plates and numerous Engrav ings. 9S. “ It would be difficult to find these subjects treated more carefully and thoroughly."— British Medical Journal, Insanity and Allied Neuroses. By George H. Savage, M.D., Medical Superintendent and Resident Physician to Bethlem Royal Hospital, and Lecturer on Mental Diseases at Guy’s Hospital. With numerous Illustrations. Seventh Thousand. 9s. " Dr. Savage's grouping of Insanity Is practical and convenient, and the observations in each group are acute, extensive, and well arranged."—The Lancet, Diseases of the Tongue. By H. T. Bdtlin, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. With 8 Chromo Plates. 9s. “ Mr. Butlln may be congratulated upon having written an excellent manual, scientific in tone, practical in aim, and elegant in literary form. The coloured plates rival, If not excel, some of the most careful specimens of art to be found In the pages of European medical publications.”—Medical youmal* Food in Dealth and Disease. By I. Burney Yeo, M.D., F.R.C.P., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in King’s College. New and Enlarged Edition, 10s. 6d. “We think that Dr. Yeo is to be congratulated on having accomplished his desire; we became more and more favourably Impressed with the work as we went through the various chapters, and we have no doubt that It will attain, as it deserves, a great success,'—TAe Lancet, Clinical Papers on Surgical Subjects. By Herbert W. Page, M.A., M.C. Cantab., F.R.C.S. Eng., Surgpn to St. Mary’s Hospital and Lecturer on Surgery at its Medical School; Member of the Court of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons ; late Examiner in Surgery, University of Cambridge; Consulting Surgeon to the Cumberland Infirmary. 6s. Cassell it Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London.