225 WOUNDS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. exudes pus. In such circumstances it is not usually necessary to do more than wash away the pus that accumulates on the surface, and continue the same sort of antiseptic dressings, the wound being skin-grafted, if large, after granulation is complete, in exactly the same manner as has been described in speaking of ulcers. Some surgeons use iodoform very largely, both in recent and iu septic wounds; but it seems to be now clearly established that iodoform as an antiseptic is quite untrustworthy, in tact, it has almost no antiseptic power. Consequently, to depend on this substance as a method of keeping bacteria out of wounds in the hrst instance, or of interfering with their growth in the wound should they enter, is quite an untrustworthy plan. Indeed, it has been shown in a certain number of cases that sepsis has actually been conveyed to the wound by the iodoform itself, when the vessel in which it has been contained has become contaminated with septic material, which has dried up and mixed with the iodoform, and been subsequently powdered over the surface of the wound. As an application, however, in wounds that have already become septic, iodoform is apparently of some value, and it seems from experiments that it acts more especially by breaking up the poisonous products which have been already formed by the bacteria, and that while doing so it is decomposed, and free iodine liberated, which may possibly exercise a certain inhibitory effect on the bacteric growth. Hence the use of iodoform in these cases may be of some advantage, and, provided it has been properly sterilised and has not been used in too large quantity, it can do no harm. The too free use of this drug may lead to the phenomena of iodoform poisoning, such as an erythematous eruption, fever, rapid pulse, vomiting, and excitement or delirium. As regards the lotions for washing out these open wounds, I should strongly dissuade from the use of carbolic acid or of strong sublimate solutions, because these can only irritate and injure the granulation layer, and thus enable bacteria to penetrate into it. If the wound must be washed out, it should be done either with some weak sublimate solution (I to 4,000 or 1 to 6,000 is what I always use) or with boracic lotion, or sanitas, or some other non- irritating antiseptic. Where the wound has become entirely covered with granulations, the use of various antiseptic ointments sometimes answers very well, more especially boracic ointment of half the pharmacopoeial strength, or eucalyptus ointment, and outside the muslin which has been spread with the ointment some antiseptic dressing such as boracic lint should be applied. (d) Wounds of mucous membvane.—In cases where the wounds involve the mucous membrane, or have been made entirely on mucous surfaces, strict antiseptic treatment is, of course, out of the question, and here the aim must be to place obstacles in the way of the growth of the bacteria, more especially to strengthen the resistance of the body. Hence, before doing operations in these situations where there is no immediate hurry, steps should be taken