624 ANEURYSM. Acujmncture.—By simply passing needles into the sac and leav- ing tliein for some days, coagulation has been set up in aneurysms which had resisted other means of cure. Dr. Macewen, of Glasgow, has employed the method in a more precise ’manner, and has un- questionably obtained admirable results. He passes his needles in such a way that by the throbbing of the aneurysm its sac is scratched against their ends. He asserts that by this scratching of the sac a white clot is produced, and he lays great stress upon the importance of this “ white clot,” which he says resembles the clot which can be watched to form in the capillaries of a frog’s web when it is injured. It is evident that to pass needles in the way directed must be an ex- ceedingly delicate operation, for if done carelessly the sac might be torn quite through. It is open to doubt whether a white clot, com- posed of fibrin and disintegrated corpuscles only, is formed, or that if it were, its presence would be of greater value than ordinary blood clot. The treatment should only be employed when compression, ligature, and excision are alike impracticable. Galvano-puncttive is employed as follows : two or more fine steel needles, carefully insulated to within one-third of an inch of their jioints, are inti’oduced into the aneurysm about an inch apart, having the whole of their bare points within the sac. One needle is con- nected with the negative pole, and the other or others with the positive pole of a constant current battery 3 or all the needles may be connected with the positive pole, and the negative pole placed in contact with the skin close by. A current of low intensity, but high tension, such as is obtained from several small cells—a battery of ten or twelve Leclanche cells will do—is used, and should be con- tinued until a decided effect is produced, such as diminished pulsa- tion or hardening 3 the needles are then withdrawn and the punc- tures sealed with collodion. When successful, a firm clot is formed around the positive pole or poles, consisting of fibrin and coagulated albumen precipitated by the dissolved iron of the needle 3 this clot is acid in reaction and oxygen gas is given off at this pole. A soft, frothy, spumous, alkaline clot is formed at the negative pole. The operation usually requires to be repeated. The evolution of gas may be so abundant as even to give a resonant percussion note. Galvano-puncture has, up to the present, had the gz’eatest amount of success among the methods now under consideration. Injection of coagulants, such as perchloride of iron, has been practised. It is necessary that the artery should be compressed above and below the aneurysm during, and for some time after, the injection, lest the fluid pass into the general circulation and serious thrombosis and embolism result. The best of all coagulants is Wooldridge’s ferment. Owing to the difficulty of guarding against the coagulant escaping from the aneuryf5in, the scope of this method is very limited. Dangenbeck suggested the injection of a solution of ergotin around the sac, with aView of exciting contraction of the muscular fibres in its wall 3 but this treatment lacks both theoretical and practical sanction.