ANEURYSM. 588 pressure ; it is one that acts continuously, and it is usually asso- ciated with other conditions producing the same result. Its in- fluence is best appreciated by noticing that the opposite condition— antemia and cachexia—is a great protection against aneurysm, which only occurs under those conditions when an artery has been greatly weakened, as by an infective embolus. The influence of bleeding in arresting the rapid growth of an aneurysm is another proof of°the important part plethora may play. The increased resistance in live arterioles and capillaries, met with in gout and chronic renal disease is an important cause of atheroma, by raising the blood-tension in the larger arteries. Like plethora it acts continuously; it also acts intermittently when due to muscular effort, and is one of the factors by which strain leads to aneurysm. Associated with marked weakening of the arteries from disease, the-normal blood-pressure is quite sufficient to produce aneurysm, as we see in aneurysm from embolism; but as a great cause of atheroma is increased blood- pressure, this condition, both directly and indirectly, plays a great part in inducing aneurysm. The greater frequency of aneurysm in the aorta than in any other artery is due to the high blood-pressure in, and the great strain thrown upon, this artery. The secondary causes of aneurysm must be specially noticed. (1) Age.—Aneurysm is most common between the ages of thirty and fifty, at the period when degenerative changes occur in the arteries, when the force of the heart is unimpaired, and when persons are still exposed to strains and injuries. It is very rare in children and adolescents, and in them is probably always due to embolic arteritis. Old age, although associated with advanced arterial dis- ease, is protected from aneurysm by the low blood-pressure due to the feeble action of the heart and the absence of special strain and effort. (2) Sex.—Aneurysm is much more frequent in men than women, the occupations and mode of living of the latter protecting them from the chief causes of the disease. Statistics show that aneu- rysms generally are thirteen times as common in men as in women ; but there are two remarkable exceptions to this rule, for carotid aneurysm is as frequent in women as in men, and dissecting aneurysm is more common in the female sex. No satisfactory explanation of these exceptions has been given. It is worthy of note that the strain of parturition—often very severe and prolonged —does not appear to lead to aneurysm. (3) Occupation.—All occupations which expose to sudden and severe effbrt, such as those of soldiers and sailors, dispose to aneurysm by the sudden rise of blood-pressure. Laborious occupations as of miners, navvies, and engineers, which throw a constant strain upon the circulation, lead to atheroma and to aneurysm. Those who habitually lead sedentary lives, but occasionally indulge in violent effbrt such as mountaineering and other forms of active exercise, are prone to aneurysm by the unwonted rise in the blood-pressure sitch an eflfort causes. The influence of occupation is well shown by the special frequency of aneurysm in cold and temperate climates,