139 SENILE GANGRENE. the influence of asepsis, very much in the same manner as the rules with regard to the treatment of senile gangrene. 2. Indirect gangrene.—The forms of gangrene which are due to indirect causes are several, and for the sake of clearness we may subdivide them into four groups (o) Gangrene due to gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels, (6) gangrene due to some sudden obstruction of the blood-vessels, (c) gangrene due to im- perfect innervation, and (d) gangi’ene brought about by certain general causes, such as diabetes, acute fevers, the use of ergot, etc. {a) Gangi’ene due to gradual diminution in the calihre of the hlood-vessels.—The typical form of gangrene due to this cause is that known as senile gangrene. This form rarely occurs before the age of forty, and is most usual in persons of sixty and upwards. The patients are men much more often than women; in fact, the proportion is something like twenty men to one woman, and this is probably due to the fact that atheromatous disease of the arteries is much more common in men than in women. Senile gangrene is in the first instance unilateral, and more especially attacks the feet and the toes, and only very rarely the fingers or the ears. The causes of senile gangrene are various diseases which produce gradual diminution in the calibre of the blood-vessels leading to the part, more especially conditions which lead to endarteritis, for example, alcoholism. A patient who is always drinking is very apt to suffer from chronic endarteritis, because the alcohol circulating through the blood irritates the lining membrane of the vessels, and is said in the first instance to cause endarteritis and blocking of the vasa vasorum, and then later to lead to atheroma in the main arteries, the thickening of the wall of the vessel in the case of alcohohsm being usually uniform all round. A second cause leading to the production of senile gangrene is syphiHs, which leads especially to endarteritis of the smaller vessels; in fact, this is one of the chief occurrences even in the very earliest stage of syphiHs. A third great cause of senile gangrene is atheroma of the artery, which is, in fact, a chronic inflammation of the deeper parts of the internal coat, and which is again due to syphiHs and to a variety of causes that seem to arise in old age. In the typical athero- matous vessels the thickening of the lining coat is irregular, and very often aflfects only one side or part of the side; and in connection with the atheromatous change in the smaller vessels not only is the calibi-e of the vessel diminished by the projection into it of the thickened patches of atheromatous material, but the disease is apt to extend to the muscular coat, leading to calcification of this coat, and thus to permanent rigidity of the vessel. Hence the smaller arteries are converted into calcareous tubes, which cannot dilate or contract in accordance with the needs of the tissues below, and the calibre of which is veiy much diminished from the irregular thickening of the internal coat; and a further efiect of this condition of atheroma or of endarteritis is that coagulation of the blood is apt to occur in these F* 2