Y. GANGRENE. By W. WATSON CHEYNE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to King's College Hospital; Professor of Surgery at King's College. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. Inflammation and gangrene.—In dealing with the final results of acute inflammation at the stage of stasis and exudation, it is mentioned that resolution might take place, that it might go on to granulation, or that it might end in gangrene (page 60). In discussing the subject of gangrene, however, we shall find that only a very few cases result in this way, and that there are many other causes which lead to the occurrence of death in a part. Nevertheless, it is convenient to discuss the whole subject here, because inflammation has to do with gangrene in a variety of ways. In the first place, as I have said, it may be the direct factor in its production as the result of extensive stasis in the blood-vessels. In the second place, inflammation may be concerned in the extension of the gangrene, more especially in the form of gangrene occurring in old people and known as senile gangrene, where the inflammation that occurs at the margin of the gangrenous part may of itself lead to further extension of the process; and in the third place inflammation is associated with gangrene, and it is by means of the inflammatory process that separation of the dead part takes place. Dofinition.—By gangrene is meant death of visible portions of the tissue, and this may result from many causes. The term is generally only employed where the death of the tissue is extensive, more especially where it affects part or the whole of an extremity. Where the death of the tissue is limited to a small portion, say of the skin, the process is spoken of as sloughing, and the dead piece as a slough. In considering the subject of gangrene, we have in the first place, and as the most important point, to discuss its mode of pro- duction and the various causes which lead to it. In the second place we have to speak of the mode in which the gangrene extends ; and in the third place of the mode in which the dead part is separated. Classiflcation.—The various forms of gangrene may be classified either according to their clinical characters or according to their