350 TUBEEGULOSIS. Caseation begins in that part of the infected district which is the most remote from the blood supply. The drier the part, the more characteristic is the degenerative change. Caseation is rarely observed in such a tissue as an oedematous lung, or in a part which has remained long engorged with blood. Where bacilli are nume- rous, and where the infiltration by leucocytes is considerable, casea- tion is rapid and well marked. When the opposite conditions obtain, the degeneration is less quickly moving. In the most acute cases there is no time for this leisurely form of decay, and the diseased part may assume at once the phenomena of necrosis or sloughing, or of acute softening. Caseous matter—as it appears to the naked eye—takes the form of deposits or patches of a bright pale yellow or buff colour. These patches are homogeneous, well circumscribed, and firm, and as dis- played in a section are very aptly to be compared to cheese. In the lymphatic glands the caseous districts stand out with remarkable clearness from the surrounding tissues : not as oases in a desert, but as minute deserts in a vast oasis. Caseous matter may remain for a long time unaltered. It may accumulate, and so produce large masses, as is sometimes seen in the brain, and in a minor degree in much enlarged lymphatic glands. It may in due course undergo the purely physical and chemical process of liquefaction, and appear when exposed as a collection of creamy matter. Such collections have been inaccurately described as purulent, and the degenerated tissue has been spoken of as sup- purating. Not infrequently the centre of a caseous area is found to have become softened, while the periphery remains firm. Cheesy foci may act as foreign bodies, and may encourage sup- puration in the living tissues which surround them. In certain conditions it would appear that caseous products are capable of being to a certain extent absorbed; but there is no evidence to show that this method of elimination is ever extensively in progress, or that it can be regarded as a common means of ridding the body of this degenerate material. A caseous patch may become the seat of some degree of calcareous infiltration and so be rendered still more inert. Suppuration may, however, be aroused around a calcareous nodule which has been for many years in a state of perfect peace, and from the resultmg abscess considerable calcareous fragments may be discharged. Finally, caseous material may become in due time encapsuled. The capsule in such a case is formed of fibrous tissue developed from the more or less uncontaminated structures which surround the tuberculous area. This process of capsule formation is distinctly of a reparative character. It allows the caseous mass to be enclosed, to be shut off from the rest of the body, and indeed to be isolated, as one would isolate an infected person. (2) Fibrous transformation.—It has been already said that cas-ea- tion represents the usual mode of ending of the tubercular process.