1079 TUP JOINT DISEASE. surfaces in the course of such diseases as scarlatina, measles, typhoid fever, etc. Symptoms.—In such a case the affection usually runs a rapid course with all the symptoms mentioned above shown out in a very marked degree. The distension of the joint is here so quickly produced that the capsule is apt to be soon burst and the inflammatory matter to be extravasated into the soft parts around. If at the same time the limb have been left to itself, the position of flexion becomes ex- treme, and the head thus thrown upon the posterior part of the capsule, which is softened by the inflammation, is ready to slip out upon the dorsum ilii, especially as the softening soon extends to the inner and outer aspect of the capsule, and abduction is thus con- verted into adduction and eversion into inversion. Such a case ^curred some years ago in my practice at University College Hospital. A patient had severe typhoid fever, and at the end of some weeks the hip joint assumed the characteristic appearance of acute inflammation with rapid distension. This was follow'ed by fle^don, adduction, and inversion, and then by dislocation of the bone during movement in bed. This dislocation “ by distension” of V olckmann was followed by rapid subsidence of the inflammation, and when the boy was admitted into the ho.spital nothing but the dislocation remained. This I reduced with the greatest ease bv Bigelow s method, a,nd then found that the surfaces were compara- ively intact as mdicated by the smooth movements of the head of he femur in the acetabulum. The limb was kept straight, and the head reniamed in position, the boy making an excellent recovery without any shorteiung. I saw him many months after with a stiff but otherwise healthy joint. It IS a remarkable fact that in these cases of acute septic syno- vitis in pymmia, early evacuation of the inflammatory contents of sbL d“ld followed by rapid recovery, as in this case, and should always be provided for either by aspiration or free incision and flushing out before the surfaces of the cartilages and synovial membrane have become extensively altered by ulceration. incision and, if necessary, wasliino- out stenhsed water or with some strong antiseptic pre- ferably the former. At the same time the limb must be kept in a weight extension or splint. Tor, if ^eft to Itself it wdl rapidly assume the position which lends itself to dislo mier ZTl' ^Wly replaced asTn tSe case Iff tW? ™ fo'’^ of disease of but httle use, except in relieving pain. But those remedies which main tain the general strength and help the system to combat the poion joint surfaces are of the utmost value The subacute and chronic form of septic synovitis differs