TUMOURS. 494 obstruction to the main duct, and, as in the case of pancreatic ranulai, observation supports the view that there is a pathological cause apart from mere obstruction concerned in their production. Parotid ranulse are very rare. Dacryops, cystic dilatation of the ducts of the lachrymal gland, are exceedingly rare. Cystic dilatation of the duct of the pancreas—-pancreatic ranula —is a common condition, and is rarely a source of trouble; but it must not be confounded with those large extravasations of pancreatic fluid and blood behind the peritoneum or in the lesser sac of the peritoneum which so frequently follow severe injuries to the belly. Pseudo-Cysts There are conditions often classed as cysts which may, Avith greater propriety, be arranged in a sub group under the title pseudo- cysts. This sub-group contains four genera:—1, Diverticula; 2, bursse; 3, neural cysts; 4, parasitic cysts. 1. Diverticula.—The name diverticulum is used to denote hernia or protrusion of the lining membrane of a cavity through a defective spot in its walls. Such protrusions occur in the phai-ynx, oesophagus, intestines, bladder, larynx, and trachea. When such protrusions occur in connection with joints, they are termed synovial cysts and, in the case of tendon sheaths, ganglia. Localised projections of the meninges of the brain or spinal cord beyond their bony coverings are referred to as meningoceles. 2. BurS80.—Where muscles and tendons glide over osseous surfaces, or in situations where skin lies in contact with bony prominences, membranous sacs filled with glairy fluid occur; these are bursse. Many of them are constant structures, e.g. the pre- patellar and olecranon bursse. Others are due to pressui-e resulting from habit or particular occupations, and may arise in any situation where the skin is subjected to intermittent pressure combined with friction. Most subcutaneous and many subtendinous bursse arise after birth. When a subcutaneous bursa attains an abnormal size, it is invariably due to unusual pressure associated with particular occu- pations. For instance, too much kneeling on hard material, whether in housemaids, devout persons, or carpet-layers, produces the familiar prepatellar bursa; repeated blows on the elbow produce the miner’s bursa; from carrying weights on the shoulder porters are liable to acquire a bursa over the acromial end of the clavicle; tailors from their cross-legged habit of sitting are sometimes troubled with one over the external malleolus; whilst weavers and lightermen, from pro- lono-ed sitting on hard seats, suffer from enlargement of the bursa over their ischial tuberosities; soldiers, when sleeping too frequently on the hard floor of the guard-room, irritate those over their greater trochanters; the pressure of ill-fitting boots develops a bursa over the enlarged head of the metatarsal bone of the hallux. When