IL/EMOBItBAGE. 513 identical. But in the case of a lateral wound in a vein, the scar is formed without obliteration of the lumen, and owing to the low blood pressure in the veins this process is a sate one. 1 ndeed, there is much less tendency to obliterate the vessel in the healing of a wound in a vein than is the case in an artery. The most striking evidence of this used to be afforded by phlebotomy. Patients were often bled every spring and autumn for years, and from the same vein; re- nented division of the vein failed to obliterate it. For the same reason, the operation of “pinning” a vein often fails to obliterate it. 3. The surgical means of arresting hsemorrhage.—The sur"ikl methods of arresting hsemorrliage are designed to produce the” immediate closure of the wounded vessel in ways closely re- sembling those of Nature. The means employed cause either con- traction of the cut artery, or contusion or laceration of its coats, diminution of the force of the blood stream in the wounded vessel, coagulation of the blood, or closure of the opening in the vessel by external pressure. A knowledge of the mode in which they effect their purpose is essential to the proper employment of these means, and we must therefore study each of them separately. 1. PrcssiBS’c is the most widely applicable and readily available of all hmmostatics; at the same time, it may be the most misleading and most mischievous. It is exceedingly important, therefore, to understand clearly its limits of usefulness and the elements of success and of failure. It can be employed as a temjyorar'i/ exioedient, either to close the wound in a vessel until it can be more securely dealt with, or to arrest the circulation in the wounded part, and prevent blood from reaching and escaping from the open vessel. In operating, if an artery or vein is divided and bleeds, the surgeon or his assistant at once puts his finger over the vessel until it can be seized in a forceps and tied. The largest vessels can be thus compressed, and the most furious hsemorrhage at once stayed ; it is only when pads and plugs are substituted for the surgeon’s finger that difficulties and dangers arise. By compression of the main artery supplying a part, or circular compression of a limb fii’m enough to arrest all circulation in it, hsemorrhage can be prevented or temporarily arrested. For the prevention or for the temporary arrest of bleeding, pressure is the best of all the means known to the surgeon. When used as the sole expedient for arresting hagmorrhage, pressure must close the mouth of a bleeding vessel until a clot has formed within it and is so firmly adherent that the force of the circulation will not detach it. The force required will, therefore, vai-y with the blood pressure in the wounded vessel, and also with the directness with which it can be applied. More force is needed to stop bleeding from an artery than from a vein, and a little more from a large artery than from a small one. Where the compression can be brought to bear directly upon the vessel, and this is supported by a resisting structure, such as a bone, quite moderate force only is It