INJUniES 0/<’ BONER. 726 bones, so that they break under the application of slight force. Fractures thus occurring are often spoken of as “ spontaneous fractures”—a contradiction in terms; for “fracture” implies that some force—e.g. the weight of the limb—^has acted ; a bone eaten right through is not “fractured.” Fractures of this kind are .complications arising in the course of certain morbid processes, of which, sometimes, they are the first noticed symptom. (1) Atrophy o/* ftoree owns many causes. It would be best to name tlie varieties from their causes ; but in some the setiology is unknown, in others it is complex. The latter seems to be the case in senile atrophy. In old age the vitality of the cells of the body becomes exhausted, with impaired functional activity and proneness to degeneration as consequences; the general feebleness and mal- nutrition of old age result. As muscular strength fails, the bones are subjected to less and less severe strains, and absorption of material no longer required occurs. Possibly degeneration and imperfect performance of function by the bone-ceUs increase the weakening. The size of a bone remains unchanged, but it becomes progressively lighter and more porous, owing to increase of all medullary spaces at the expense of the solid bone. Senile atrophy affects the long bones chiefiy. It is more marked in women than in men, probably on account of their more sedentary lives. Its changes may appear early or late, in accordance with the health and habits of the individual; in some degree they may be regarded as physiological, though old bones are not uncommon which have escaped them entirely. But when they appear early in life, or advance out of proportion to the age of the individual, they must be viewed as pathological. The great frequency of fracture of the narrow part of the neck of the femur in old people, especially women, and from slight violence, is due to weakening of the cancellous tissue of the femoral neck by senile atrophy. Atropliy from disuse is common. When, for months or years, a limb is kept at rest by paralysis, or disease of bone or joint, all the tissues waste and become fatty; the bones may do so to an ex- treme degree, being easily cut with a knife. Here the first element in the setiology is impaired blood supply, due to non-performance of function by the muscles, each contraction of which causes an affluxus shared by the bones. When, as is commonly the case, disuse begins in childhood, impaired growth adds greatly to the effect of atrophy. It is possible that in these cases there may be some trophic influence at work also. Thinning of a bone by the constant pressure of an aneurysm or simple growth may end in fracture. Nerve influence, or the absence of it, is almost certainly con- cerned in producing the atrophy associated with tabes, perhaps, also, in that of chronic brain disease, especially general paralysis. Tlie frequent occurrence of fractures, commonly multiple—36 in one case—in general paralytics has long been known. Formerly attri- buted to violence on the part of attendants, it is now recognised