615 treatment of aneurysm. IS to be preferred in all cases where the patient can bear it, and tlie requisite arrangements can be made. Opium may be given to allay pain and restlessness, and to secure sleep ; and when consideiable pressure has to be employed, especially in controlling the abdominal irteries, the patient may be kept under the influence of an anaistlietic Avhile the compression is applied. In any case in which compression is employed, care should be taken to choose the most suitable form, and to try it thoroughly; if it fails, it should not be frequently re- peated, nor continued long. If it succeeds in procuring a clot, great kre must be taken to guard this from disintegration, by keeping the part at rest with moderate compression of the artery for two or three days When compression fails, ligature may often be successiully practised, but it influences the result of the operation in several ways. The ligature should never be placed, if possible, exactly where an artery has been long compressed, as the parts may be found matted together, and the risk of injury to the vein is thereby increased. The enlargement of the collaterals diminishes the risk of gangrene after ligature, but, as we have seen, it lessens the prospect of cure of the aneurysm. (c) Flexion.—Aneurysms in the ham or at the bend of the elbow may often be rapidly cured by fully flexing the joint for several hours. By this means the sac is compressed, and the artery is occluded partly by the pressure of the sac, partly by the bend in its course. In these circumstances the blood may coagulate en masse. If the flexion is less acute, the flow of blood through the aneurysm may be so moderated that successive acts of coagulation occur, and the sac is gradually tilled with laminated clot. This treatment has the merits of simplicity, safety, and rapidity, and it is attended with a minimum of discomfort. It is especially adapted for small slowly-growing aneurysms, and should never be employed when the tumour is of large size, rapidly-growing, or threatening to become diffused. The limb should be evenly bandaged up to the joint, and then fully flexed, and fixed either by a bandage, a strap and buckle, or heavy sand-bags. Frequent examination of the part should be made, and as soon as the sac is found to be consolidated, it is to be protected from the full force of the blood, either by moderate flexion, or by some form of compression of the artery higher up. (c?) Esmarch's elastic bandage (Reid’s treatment) may be used to secure stasis of the blood in the aneurysm and adjacent artery, in the hope that the stagnant blood may coagulate, and the thrombus sub- sequently organise. It is only applicable to aneurysms below the groin and axilla. The elastic bandage should be carried firmly from the fingers or toes, nearly up to the tumour, and then, missing the tumour altogether, continued firmly round the limb above for a short distance. Sometimes the bandage is carried lightly over the aneu- rysm, so as slightly to compress the sac, and perhaps also empty the companion vein. The bandage should be left on for an hour and a-half—not more—and the pain subdued by morphia or chloroform ; and if, on its removal, the blood is found to have coagulated within