1065 ACUTE EPIPHYSITIS. and of Charcot’s disease are, as has already been pointed out (page 1051), followed in some cases by hyperplastic processes in those areas of the bone bordering on the part actually breaking down. These manifest themselves in the first place usually as a rarefying osteitis, which softens the osseous tissue about the joint to such an extent that it is capable of moulding itself into various altered shapes, depending upon the movements of the bone resting against it. In other cases the hyperplasia assumes the bone-forming type, and masses of new osseous tissue are thrown out, especially round the borders of the articulation, until its movements are seriously interfered with. (See page 701.) Again, there may be in either of these diseases a certain amount of sclerosing osteitis at one or other of the limits of the degenerative process, by which the breaking down of the end of the bone is arrested. Thus we may have the three well-known forms of bone inflammation in different stages of the same affection, that is the “rarefying,” “bone-forming,” and “sclerosing” osteitis. This simply means that these processes are only due to varieties in the amount and quality of the hypersemia present. Acute epiphysitis.—There is a group of acute affections of the ends of the bones in very young children, which, as they may simulate or actually lead to joint disease, require a few words of notice here, although properly coming under the heading of diseases of the bones. (See page 883.) Mr. Thomas Smith in a series of twenty-two cases shows that eight occurred in the first month of life, nineteen within the first six months, and three more within the first year. The aetiology of these cases is still obscure, but there seems to be a considerable amount of evidence in favour of the view that in the majority of cases, at all events, the affection is due to septic in- fection through the sloughing remains of the umbilical cord. As a determining cause it is possible that injury plays a part by lower- ing the vitality of the epiphysial tissues. Such an injury may be received in utero or during labour, either from the natural efforts of the uterus or from instrumental delivery. But be this as it may, the disease in all its features is one of septic infection. Symptoms.—The disease is characteiised by the rapid develop- ment of inflammation at the lines of growth of the diaphysis and epiphysis, often within a few days of birth. This has a great ten- dency to run on rapidly to suppuration, the pus making its way either directly through the end of the bone into the joint, or more frequently extending across the whole plane of the epiphysis, and separating the latter from the diaphysis, finally bursting the peri- osteum laterally. Again, it may run up the shaft more or less. When it escapes laterally under the periosteum, it depends, of course, upon the relation of the epiphysis to the capsule, wliether the pus shall make its way into the latter or not. In the liip, for instance, the joint is inevitably involved, while in the case of the knee the pus may escape without entering the articulation. When the joint is invaded, rapid solution of all the cartilages is T T * ®