178 PYEMIA. the smaller arterioles near the edge of the lung, or at the bifurca- tion of arteries. When once arrested, they excite two kinds of changes in the wedge of lung supplied by the vessel which they ])lug. The first change is more or less mechanical, and has to do with the interruption in the circulation. It ends in the wedge of lung supplied by the artery becoming filled with blood clot. The exact way in which this occurs is not well understood, but is supposed to be due to regurgitation of blood from the veins. The result is called an infarct,” and the process '■‘■infarction.” Thus, whilst the clot is in a vein it is called a venous thrombus, when detached an embolus, and when lodged in a vessel and accompanied with vascular changes it helps to form a haemorrhagic infarct. Wedge-shaped infarcts are found in the spleen and kidneys as well as in the lungs. The second set of changes which the septic emboli excite are dependent upon the bacteria that they carry with them. These changes are the same as those which the bacteria cause elsewhere, and are an acute septic inflammation ending in suppuration. It is this final stage which constitutes the pycemic abscess. Not in- frequently the suppuration obscures the preceding haemorrhagic infarction, and doubtless the latter often does not occur at all (Hamilton). In this embolic process the blood clot itself acts a mere nassive part in the causation of the pyaemic abscesses, and is by no means essential for their formation. Since the work of Recklinghausen, Klebs, Hueter, and others the origin of the abscesses in the liver, kidneys, and elsewhere has been clearly understood. The pyogenic cocci circulating in the blood become arrested in the smaller capillaries and vessels and form bacterial emboli, and excite inflammatory changes that end in suppuration. The changes following the arrest of the cocci are, as Weigert and Cheyne have shown, somewhat as follows :—The tissues around the cocci undergo coagulation necrosis, and refuse to stain with ordinary aniline dyes. Beyond this ring of coagulation necrosis is a dense accumulation of leucocytes, which are the begmning of the abscess; beyond these there is acutely ii^amed or engorged tissues. The minute micrococci, which are circulating -with the blood in pyemia, find no obstacle to their passage through such relatively coarse capillaries as those of the lungs. Thus we tod that bacterial emboli and pysemic abscesses may occur in any region of the body to which the blood penetrates. They are commonest in organs and tissues that have the largest supply of blood and the most entensive capillaries, as, for instance, the lungs, liver, kidneys spleen bmn, muscles serous and synovial membranes, in the heart, thyroid body, ZtS’^n^testis. Li eye. (&e page 181.) Until the bactenal orit^in of pyjemia was understood pathologists found it hard to con- ceive how emboli, originating in a systemic vein, could elude the capillaries of the lungs, and cause an abscess in an instance, as the liver. The perp exity was mcveased by the occasional presence of clots in the neighbourhood of the pjaemic