920 DISEASES OF BONES. tibia, but great care must be taken that the soft parts are really free from infiltration. If the clisoa.se be situated in the upper third of tibia, the amputation must be done through the lower third or middle of thigh, according to the extent of growth. An endosteal sarcoma of tibia may be removed by amputation, just above the disease. A re-section would leave a useless limb. Fibula.—A periosteal sarcoma should be removed by amputation on the same lines as for the tibia. An endosteal sarcoma of the fibula may fairly be submitted to re-section, and the case carefully watched. Femur.—In the lower third of the femur a subperiosteal sarcoma would require amputation as high up towards the hip-joint as safety to the patient from shock would dictate. Skin-flaps and sawing through the neck of femur or trochanters would probably be as rence four years afterwards. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 2589.) serviceable, so far as local recurrence is concerned, as disarticulation at the hip-joint. See Fig. 357, where success was obtained by a much lower amputation. In the middle of the thigh nothing less than amputation at the hip-joint, with short skin-flaps, would be of any avail. And even this can only be successful quite early in the disease, or where it appears not to have spread rapidly along the shaft. A subperiosteal sarcoma in the upper end of the femur must be regarded as hopeless from an operator’s point of view. An endosteal sarcoma of the femur would require amputation immediately above the disease. In the head and neck of femur— where, however, it is exceptionally rare—^re-section might be thought of on account of the dangers of amputation through the hip-joint. If there be a doubt—as there well might be—as to the nature of the tumour on account of its distance from the surface, an exploration might first be made. If found to be an endosteal growth, re-section would, perhaps, be the best treatment, especially if there were reasons to think that the case was one of giant-celled sarcoma. Radius and ulna.—Periosteal sai’comata o^ the lower thirds of these bones must be treated by amputation just below or just above the elbow-joint, according to the extent to which the growth has