AOBTIG ANEURYSM. 639 that an aortic anemysm may be present without giving rise to any symptoms by wliich a diagnosis can be arrived at, and may even run its course to fatal rupture without its presence having been suspected. The tumour reveals its presence by its pressure eflects m the cliest by an abnormal area of dulness to percussion, and by localised swelliii" The swelling is found most often on the right side of the sternum, at first displacing forwards the structures of the chest wall, but often absorbing the bone, and forming a tumour superb cial to the sternum. In connection with the transverse part of the arch the tumour may rise up into the neck at the suprasternal notch. _ Aneu- rysm of the descending aorta projects—if at all posteriorly in the thoracic region, on the left of the spine. Pulsation may be felt over an aneurysm in the chest before any bulging of the wall has occurred, and is a very important sign. Briixts of various kinds are heard over aortic aneurysms. They may be systolic, diastolic, or both, soft or harsh, blowing, musical or rasping, and there may be an entire absence of all bruit. In some cases the heart-sounds are heard with marked intensity all over the aneu- rysm ; and in the absence of the more definite signs, this may be an important sign of aneurysmal dilatation of the first part of the arch. In aneurysms of the descending aorta the bruits are heard at the back, especially on the left side of the spine. In some cases a marked thrill is present in the tumour. The indse may afford valuable indi- cations, or none at all. It may be lost in certain arteries as either carotid or subclavian—from the aneurysm compressing the origin of these vessels. In other cases there is a marked difference in the fulness and force of the pulse in the arteries on the proximal and distal side of the aneurysm, and the sphygmograph may make this effect very plain. The pressure effects of aortic aneurysm vaiy with the position, size, and rapidity of growth of the tumour. The most constant is pam, which may be of at least three kinds : a sense of weight or constriction, or a dull aching pain at the seat of the aneurysm ; a deep boring or burning pain when the aneurysm is pressing upon bone and causing its absorption ; and intercostal neuralgia, a lanc- inating pain referred to the area of distribution of compressed spinal nerves. Displacement of the heart is a very common effect of a thoracic aneurysm : usually the heart is pushed downwards, and to the left; but an aneurysm of the descending aorta may push it forwards. Pressure on the pulmonary artery may lead to serious dyspnoea and cyanosis from imperfect aeration of the blood, and to di’opsy and the other results of obstruction to the emptying of the right heart. Pressure on the great systemic veins—the vena cava or either innomi- nate vein—causes cyanosis, venous distension and oedema of the areas drained by them. Pressure on the pulmonary veins causes general cyanosis, dyspnoea and the signs of pulmonary congestion. The trachea, either bronchus or the lung, may be compressed and cause grave dyspnoea and interference with the function of one or both lungs. Pressure on the oesophagus causes dysphagia, more