NJEVUS. 581 membranes—the conjunctiva, lip, tongue, and labium. They are SZ irciated ^vith a cavernous na3vus in the deeper tissues It •t r>f the skin it is commonly called a 2)ort w%ne sta%n and these r. ninl> Sten S4r a large aiJ of .skin, even to the extent of one 1 If of the entire body. Occurring in the form of stellate groups of dilated venules, they are called phleUecMses; and these are most commonly met with in the skin of the thigh or leg, and particulaily in adults^ They occur, however, on the face and other parts, and^are sometimes seen in the skin close to a nsevus either simple or '^^'Camous ncevi develop chiefly in and beneath the skin dnd mucous membranes, and occur most commonly ni the scalp, lips, cheeks, on the trunk, and the female genitals. They are also met with in the breast, tongue, liver, rectum, and oesophagus. In the livei thev are believed to develop late in life. Clinical cliaractevs—Nsevi are often multiple and, as already stated, the two forms are often associated. , . Simple ncevi appear as minute bnght red or darker specks in the skin, or as large growths, which project slightly from the surface of the healthy skin, and may be a little uneven on the surface. If or large size the surface may be felt to be hotter than that of the suiiound- in<r’skin. The colour may be lessened by pressure, but returns very quickly. “ Port wine stains ” are of varying hue. Some are only slightly purple ; others of a deep purple colour. CctveTuous ncevi form; soft, easily compressible tumouis, often of irregularly lobulated or tortuous outline, which become full and tense under the influence of crying, coughing, or straining. When of large size they may show a tendency to become pedunculated. Beneath mucous membrane or thin skin they show a purple colour, which is intense when the growth implicates the skin itself. Large veins may often be seen coursing from the tumour and the skin over it may be the seat of a “simple nsevus.” In some cases the blood spaces or enlarged veins are separated by a considerable amount of healthy skin or other tissue, and these cases pass by insensible degrees into a condition of merely enlarged veins indistinguishable from ordinary varices. Beyond the fact of disfigurement, ntevi rarely occasion any ill effects. If, cut they bleed freely, but the hemorrhage is easily arrested by pressure. They may remain stationary throughout life, or may steadily increase, or, having remained stationary for a time, may suddenly take on an active growth, perhaps from the effects of injury or the stimulus of puberty. Nevi may become moi’e promi- nent at the menses and they have been known to be the seat of vicarious menstruation ; puberty sometimes arrests their growth. On the other hand, they may undergo regressive changes ; the centre becomes gradually paler and this change extending, may remove the entire disease; in other cases the tumour ulcerates and leaves a white cicatrix; this process is attended with danger from haemorrhage. Or thrombi may form spontaneously aiid becoming