SUItGIOAL BAOTEEIOLOGY. 26 in the presence of air—it still continues to grow when air is excluded. It liquefies gelatine moi’e ra[)idly near the surface than away from the air ; after a time, when the pigment is fully formed, the organisms fall to the bottom, and accumulate in a beautiful orange-coloured mass, exceedingly characteristic of the growth. On nutrient agar-agar and potato there appears a moist growth—white at first, or pale yellow, with somewhat wavy outlines; as it becomes thicker the growth assumes an orange or ochre-yellow colour. On plates it occurs as small white dots, which gradually become yellower. When grown in milk, it forms lactic and butyric acids, and coagula- tion occurs. It may be kept alive on agar-agar or in gelatine for a whole year without re-inoculation. When kept moist, it is killed in about ten minutes at a temperature of from 56° to 58° 0. Injected in considerable quantities under the skin of one of the small rodents, it sets up an abscess at the seat of inoculation. These abscesses are usually not fatal, unless very large, though sometimes a general infection may follow. When injected into the circulation, small capillary emboli, multiple abscesses of the kidney, and even abscesses in the joints and other organs result. _ Garrd, who rubbed cultures of this organism freely on the skin of his own arm, obtained a regular crop of cutaneous furuncular abscesses. This staphylococcus is found in many of the more acute skin diseases, especially in those which are accompanied by suppuration, in acute abscesses in acute osteomyelitis, and in ulcerative endocarditis. There can be little doubt that in cases of heai-t disease accompanied by a deposition of fibrin, or where there is a rupture of the valves, the introduction of these micrococci into the blood-stream is followed by a specific infective process, the micrococci becoming attached to the roughened surfaces, where they multiply, and are then distri- buted as small emboli, which, impacted, form the foci around which abscesses are formed. 2. Staphylococcus pyogenes albus.—The second species (Staphylococcus pyogenes albus) is [identical with the first, except that it produces no colouring matter, and is supposed to be not quite so \urulent—and is frequently found in the same positions. Welch describes an almost exactly similar organism, the Staphylococcus epidermidis albus. It is only slightly pyogenic, but is the organism most frequently met with on and in the skim Its action in lique- fyin<- gelatine, in bringing about the coagulation of milk, and m producing pus when injected subcutaneously, or setting up certain Lions when mjected into the circulation, is considerably inferior to that of the Staphylococcus aureus; but this organism is y Welch to be the most usual cause of the small abscesses t a around tense stitches. 3. Staphylococcus pyogenes citreiis and Miciococci s nvosrenes temiis.-The Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus is ideii- tiLl^in appearance with those already described,^ except that it assumes a dLcate lemon-yellow colour and that it still more slowly than either of the other forms. It is sometimes