ANl^UBYSM. 640 or less complete, and compression of the thoracic duct leads to rapid euiaciation and chylous ascites. Pressure upon the left inferior laryngeal ne7‘ve as it courses round the aorta quickly causes abductor paralysis, the vocal cord is drawn into the position of phonation by the unopposed adductors and the voice is unaffected. With increased pressure the adductor muscles are paralysed, the cord is motionless in the cadaveric position, and the voice is hoarse. Pressure on the vagus nerve may cause reflex spasm of the opposite vocal cord, grave disturbance of the heart’s action, or even its ar- rest in diastole, and dyspnoea. Pressure upon the phrenic nerve paralyses the diaphragm on the same side. An an- eurysm eroding the spine and compressing thesjjinalcord or c nerws causes pain, anesthesia, and paralysis. In the case of aneurysm of the transverse part of the arch, if the patient throws his head back and the surgeon seizes his larynx and gently draws it up, he will be conscious of a sensation of pulling downwards of the trachea with each beat of the heart. This has been called the tracheal tug: it indicates that the body pressing upon the trachea in the chest is moved with each beat of the heart. Course and terminations. —Aortic aneurysm may run a rapid course and be quickly fatal, or its course may be slow and insidious and extend over years. The progi’ess depends first upon the nature of the aneurysm —sacculated being much more rapid and dangerous than fusi- form ; then upon its position and direction of growth—aneuiysms within the pericardium and those on the concavity of the arch are the most serious; upon the size and disposition of the mouth of the aneurysm, the force of the heart, and upon the habits, occupation, and temperament of the patient. Patients have been known to live for some years with aneurysms projecting through their chest walls. An aortic aneurysm never becomes truly cured : but great and lasting improvement may take place either spontaneously or as the result of treatment, from the deoosit of clot within the sac and Fig. 184.—Aneurysm of tlie Arcli of the Aorta communicating with the Pulmo- nary Artery. (Prom a specimen in the Brompton Hospital Museum.) A, Aneurysm; n, pulmonary artery laid open: o, communication between aneurysm and pulmonary artery.