so SUPPURATION. materials, giving it special characteristics. For example, the pus tliat conies from the liver in cases of liver abscess is of a reddish- yehow instead of a yellowish-white colour, and not unfrequently contains bacilli or amoebae, and the knowledge of this character of liver pus may be of considerable importance in cases of difficult diagnosis. Then, again, pus wdiich comes from bone generally contains large quantities of fat globules, and in other cases of bone abscess the fluid evacuated at first may be comparatively clear, and then towards the end a quantity of turbid fluid is pressed out. In the latter case the pus is strongly acid, from the presence of lactic acid, and it is the action of this acid on the pus corpuscles which pro- duces the eflect described. Again, the pus on the surface of a wound may be of a bright blue colour, the so-called blue pus, due to the grow'th in it of a particular micro-organism called the bacillus pyocyaneus (page 3). Or in other cases the pus from an abscess, even when freshly evacuated, may be found to have a very foul smell: as, for example, in abscesses in the neighbourhood of the intestinal tract, abscesses in the brain in connection with ear disease, etc., or abscesses connected with the gums or in the neighbourhood of the mouth. It is now generally accepted that these pus cells are in the main leucocytes that have emigrated from the blood-vessels, and which have lost their vitality more or less completely. It is, however, possible that a small number of the pus corpuscles may be derived from the tissue cells falling into the abscess cavity, as the result of the lique- faction of the tissues by the peptonising action of the bacteria ; and it is also possible that the leucocytes may multiply after their exit from the blood-vessels. The liquor puris is essentially the fluid which has passed out of the blood-vessels during the inflammatory stage, and which has been prevented from coagulating by the peptones resulting from the growth of the bacteria. Formation of acute abscess.—The following is the method in which an acute abscess is formed. The stage of granulation, which has been previously described (page 60), having been reached, the inflammation continues, and the next thing which happens is that towards the centre of this mass of granulation tissue, liquefaction takes place, and a cavity is formed containing a fluid with corpuscles; that is to say, pus. Around this cavity active inflammatory processes go on, a wall of granulation tissue is present, and active emigration of corpuscles takes place from^ the vessels. The abscess so formed enlarges by the extension of the inflammatory process in the tissues around, and by the liquefaction and disappe<y- ance of the layer of granulation tissue which lies next the interior of the abscess. When an acute abscess has formed, there is little probability of a cessation of the process. In practically all cases inflammation extends at the periphery, while the liquefaction gop on in the interior, and thus the abscess gradually increases in size. The inflammation at the periphery naturally extends most readily, and leads to the stage of complete granulation most quickly