109 NON-INFEOTIVE ULGEB. diabetes, ulcei’ation occurs with marked rapidity, and is very apt to pass into gangrene. In scurvy, again, ulceration is not unlikely to take place over [parts where hremorrhage has occurred subcutan- eously, more particularly towards the upper part of the leg, these ulcers being especially liable to bleed. Neurotic women are also apt to become afiected with ulceration, one form of which is known under the name of the ii’ritable ulcer, and this is chiefly associated with disorder of the uterine functions. Results followingf the non-infective ulcer. — It is very important to recognise the cause of the ulcerative process, and to carry out proper treatment for its arrest, because, if it be allowed to go on, it may lead to very serious local disturbance. For example, where an ulcer occurs over muscles, inflammation of the muscle beneath takes place, resulting in exudation among the muscular fibres and permanent interference with its proper action. This is equally the case where the ulcer is situated over tendons, where the inflammation spreads to the tendon sheaths, leading to adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths and imperfect movement of the parts. Another disadvantage of the continuance of ulceration is that the circulation in the part below is interfered with, and in this way the foot, for example, may be rendered useless. This is most marked where the ulcer surrounds the leg more or less com- pletely, in which case the contraction of the sore tends to constrict the leg and to press on the blood-vessels, and thus leads to imperfect venous and lymphatic return and imperfect supply of blood to the part, and hence to permanent loss of function of the foot; and this contraction is also objectionable, even when the ulcer can heal fairly readily, if the sore be situated over a joint, it which case marked contraction of the joint may take place; or if it be situated, say, in the neck, where the features may become dis- torted, from the skin being pulled on during the healing process; or about the axilla, where the arm may become bound to the side. {See Fig. 41.) Apart from these objectionable local results, the presence of an ulcer implies a certain amount of danger to the patient. Thus, the veins in the vicinity of the ulcer may become inflamed, and extensive phlebitis and thrombosis result, and, of course, if this inflammation be of a septic character, very serious or even fatal consequences may ensue. In addition, the presence of an open sore presents a point of entrance for various infective diseases, more especially for the erysipelas virus; and lastly, I may mention that in certain cases where sores have existed for a long time, epithelioma may develop at tlieir margins, and may lead to the death of the patient as the result of this cancerous growth. Varieties of the non-infective ulcer.—Chronic non-infective ulcers are divided into several classes, according to their appearance and tendencies. The following are the chief groups. 1. Simple ulcer.—The simple ulcer is a sore whicli does not heal on account of various local troubles, such as pressure, friction of