718 ms EASES OF THE SKIN. The treatment of lupus erythematosus is not very satisfactory. Perhaps the best results are obtained from cauterisation and scraping, but in many cases the patient prefers less heroic measures; then a trial should be given to a fairly strong tar ointment (half-a- drachm of liquor bituminis to the ounce of vaseline) or tp the unguentum metallorum (B.P.). Melanosis.—This term is applied to new growths—either sarcoma or carcinoma—in which dark pigment is present in the cells. It may commence in any part of the skin, not infrequently at the site of a congenital pigmented mole, or in the choroid layer of the eye. Occasionally it is met with in mucous membranes, e.g. that of the hard palate. It is a rare disease, but of great im- portance from its tendency to rapid dissemination in the viscera, especially the liver. The extent of these secondary deposits and the apparent rapidity of their formation bear no relation to the size of the primary growth. Occasionally one sees the liver increased to twice its normal size and coal-black from melanosis, resulting from an insignificant bttle mole, or what seems to be merely a small dark stain of the skin. In these cases, however, there is always a certain amount of growth, consisting of rounded or spindle cells, at the site of pigmentation. Sometimes this growth is not of sarcoma tissue, but of cancerous structure, starting from the deeper layers of the cutaneous epithelium and with a distinctly alveolar arrangement. Besides causing secondary deposits in the large viscera, a melanotic skin-growth is very apt to affect secondarily'’ the nearest lymphatic glands, which enlarge considerably, and on section are found to be dark brown or black in hue. Finally, multiple subcutaneous tumours may form in the neighbourhood of the primary growth, also pigmented, and no doubt due to deposits through the cutaneous lymphatic system. Melanotic growths occur with equal frequency in the skin aTid the choroid coat of the eye (page 470). Allusion has been made to their occasional development in and around a congenital mole, and the same fact is said to have been observed with regard to najvi (this is certainly very rare). When a mole becomes the seat of melanosis, besides the marked increase of pigmentation there is often an area of congestion, and, perhaps, of perceptible infilti’ation of the adjacent skin. Micro- scopically the pigment is found in the cells of the growth, sometim^ as dark granules of “ melanin,” as well as free. Primary melanotic growths have been met with in all parts of the skin, for instan^ on the abdominal or chest wall, the nose, cheeks, and eyelids. Ihey sometimes commence around and under the nails of either fangei-s or toes, and in this situation may readily escape diagnosis for some little time. It is stated that in a few cases the firet growth occurs in the lymphatic glands. i. The diagnosis of commencing melanosis is most important, since the only chance for the patient is an early and free excision, it must be remembered that the actual growth may be small, and indeed there may be ai)parently merely a dark stam covered, an