120 ULCERATION. aseptic, this callous condition will quickly subsiae, so that in the course of two or three weeks the sore will present a healthy appear- ance, and healing will commence. Where it is desirable to expedite matters, or where the thickening of the tissues does not yield to these measures, perhaps the best method is to apply one or more blisters. These blisters should be applied over the callous area around the sore, but it is not advisable to place them over the actual surface of the sore, otherwise the cantharides is very apt to become absorbed and produce congestion of the kidneys, and as in these cases it is not uncommon to find that Bright’s disease is present, this congestion might lead to very serious results. The efiect of the blister is to set up inflammation of the skin, and consequently more rapid circulation through the part and more rapid absorption by the lymphatics, and in a few days after the application of a blister it is usually found that the thickening has very markedly diminished or even disappeared. Another method which is employed to get rid of the callous condition is the use of pressure, either in the form of strapping—the strips of strapping beginning behind the leg, and the ends crossing over the surface of the ulcer, a hole being cut in the strapping to permit of the escape of discharge—or in the form of Martin’s elastic bandage, which is of considerable advantage. Massage, also, is a rapid method of getting rid of the effused material, the parts first subjected to the treatment being those above the ulcei’, and sub- sequently the parts below. The callous condition having been got rid of, and the sore having become healthy, skin grafting should be employed, and if, when the wound has healed, varicose veins are found, they should be treated by operation. Callous ulcers occur more especially in the very poor, who are unable to give the necessary time for the thorough and sound healing of the sore, and who must therefore often be treated as out-patients. In that case one hardly hopes for a cure, but rather for alleviation of the pain and discomfort, and arrest of the ulcerative process. If the patient is to be allowed to walk about with a callous ulcer, the first essential, after having rendered the sore aseptic, is to give the part adequate support, so as to aid the return circulation ■, and for this purpose the use of Martin’s bandage is the plan which has met with the greatest favour. Originally it was applied to the leg, beginning at the foot, and passing upwards without any dressing being placed between it and the sore; and it was taken oft at night, washed, and thoroughly dried, no bandage being employed while the patient was in bed. The objection to this is, however, that the bandage becomes very foul, and thus great irritation of the sore is produced ; and further, as the perspiration is confined beneath the bandage, an eczematous condition is very apt to form. With the view of avoid- ing the latter objection, Martin’s bandages are now for the most part perforated with holes, so as to allow the evaporation of the sweat; but I believe it is also advisable in all cases to apply a suitable anti- septic dressing to the sore before putting on a Martin s bandage, bo long