577 angeiomata. (3) Excision.—Tliis is the operation wliicli gives the best re- sults and is to be employed in the majority of cases. An incision is made along the varix to be removed, the vein is carefully exposed, and a double ligature is tied at each end, and the vein divided between. The vessel is then raised from its bed, and each branch tied or seized in forceps before it is divided. The skin incision is carefully closed with a fine suture. This operation is rendered at times a little troublesome from the great length of the tortuous veins and the number of branches opening into them, but it gives the most satisfactory results. It has been modified by exposing the varix through an inch-long incision, freeing a short length of it, and then seizing this in torsion forceps, and slowly twisting the vein, so as to draw out a considerable length of the vein. Some- times this answers admirably, but at other times the divided ends of the veins bleed, and some trouble is given to find and secure the bleeding points. Of course all operations upon veins should be performed only with thorough aseptic precautions. It is a fact of great interest that excision of varicose veins in well-selected cases is followed by most satisfactory results—by cure. The patient’s pain and inability to stand long, to undergo fatigue, or to bear exposure to heat, are entirely removed. But not only so, in most cases there is no fresh development of varicose veins nor any sign of injury from obstruction to the venous return; this shows not only how abun- dantly free the provision for the return of blood is, but also that varix is not simply the effect of over-distension of veins. In some cases new varices do develop after operation; but this is to be considered as the natural progress of the particular case, for it is often observed without any operative or other treatment. If a case has long been stationary without any new varices appearing, operation will not be followed by such event; but where new varices have recently appeared, the removal of those visible may be followed by the development of others : not, however, as the consequence of the operation. IV. ANGEIOMATA. Varieties.—An angeioma is a tumour composed mainly or ex- clusively of blood-vessels; some of these vessels are newly formed, others are pre-existing ones more or less greatly dilated. The vessels may be arteries, veins, or capillaries, and scattered among them may be enlarged lymphatics. Arterial angeioma is more often called cirsoid aneurysm; capillary and venous angeiomata are commonly called ncevi, or “ mother s marks.” It is common to find two or more of these varieties associated together, and such cases are then classified in accordance with the predominant chai'acter of the tumour. {See also Article XXXVII., on Diseases of the Head, Vol. II.) Arterial varix; cirsoid aneurysm; plexiform angeioma.— These names are applied to various conditions of dilated and elongated arteries. When a single large artery is lengthened, T