VIII. PYtEMIA. By C. B. LOCKWOOD, F.E.C.S., Assistant-Surgeon to St. Bartholomeio's Hospital; Surgeon to the Cheat Northern Hospital. Definition.—The word pyaemia, which we owe to Piorry, is derived from the Greek nvov (pus) and cufxa (blood). It originated in the belief that the disease was due to the entrance of pus into the blood. Although this assumption contains an element of truth, it now requires to be modified. Other names have been given to pyaemia to mark its close connection with suppuration. One of the commonest is •purulent infection, or pus infection. The word septicaemia was applied to those whose blood was supposed to have been poisoned with putrid material. Since the labours of Ogston, Koch, Klebs, Krause, Rosenbach, and others, it has been understood that pyaemia is caused by the entrance of certain bacteria into the blood, where they live and multiply, and whence they pass into the tissues, joints, or serous cavities, causing purulent deposits. {See page 25.) Thus pyaemia may be defined as a general infection of the blood with pyogenic organisms, leading to the formation of multiple abscesses, and accompanied with intermittent fever and other mani- festations of septic disease. More briefly, pyaemia may be defiuied as septicaemia, with, in addition, the formation of metastatic abscesses. Mortality.—Pyaemia is becoming a comparatively rare disease. But when it occurs, it is exceedingly fatal. Of 94 cases which were treated in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in sixteen years, 66 died. Sex and age.—The proportion of the two sexes is almost equal. Among the 94 cases just quoted, 48 were males and 46 females. Males usually die of pyaemia after injuries and operations, or after acute infective osteomyelitis. In females the smaller liability to injury and osteomyelitis is compensated for by the dangers of par- turition and of sepsis connected with the reproductive organs. The statistics given by Gussenbauer show that out of 50 cases of pyaemia 44 died. There were 24 men with 1 case of recovery, and 26 women with 5 recoveries. The tables of Gussenbauer show also that pyaemia is extremely G* 2