IUI<lMORliI[A(U<L r,Of) coats as a long film. An ai-tery as lai'ge as the brachial may be torn in this way without any blood escaping from it; of all the accessories to the one essential factor in the natural arrest of hajmorrhage—the formation of a clot in the wound in the vessel none are so potent as contusion and laceration of the vessel. 3. Diiiiinislictl arterial tension.—It is evident that with less pressure in the wounded artery the blood will escape more slowly, and will, therefore, coagulate more readily. A rapid forcible stream of blood tends to wash away the forming clot, while the slower gentler stream of blood does not displace the clot, and itself readily coagulates. This diminished tension may be suddenly induced by the physical shock of the injury, or by the sight of the blood escaping from the wound. Or it may be more slowly induced by the loss of blood weakening the heart and emptying the arteries. 4. Increased coaffnlability of the blood.—We shall have to notice (page 52.5) that one result of an abundant haemorrhage is the absorption of' serous fluid from the soft tissues, rendering the blood more watery. It is well known that the addition of a moderate amount of water to normal blood outside the body, increases the rapidity with which it coagulates ; and it is believed that the same result may be produced in the late stages of a severe haemorrhage. It is in the case of complete division of the largest vessels only that unaided Nature fails to effect the arrest of the Inemorrhage; for the longer the bleeding continues, and the more blood is lost, the greater becomes her powei’, until when life is almost extinct, and the force of the circulation barely sufficient to carry it on at all, the most favourable condition for the formation of a clot exists, and the haemorrhage may be arrested. Thus it is that patients recover even when completely blanched, pulseless at the wrist, and unconscious, and death from haemori hage alone is rare, except in the case of a wound of a very large vessel, causing a great rush of blood and rapid syncope. The natural (temporary) arrest of hsemorrhage is retarded by the following conditions :— (а) Partial tlivision of the artery.— This altogether pre- vents longitudinal retraction, and the contraction of the muscular coat opens out instead of closing transverse and oblique wounds of the vessel. {See Fig. 137.) The stream of blood coursing along the artery also tends to displace any clot that forms in the wound, and prevents the formation of an “ internal clot ” to protect the “ central clot.” Further reference is made to this point in the section on punctured wounds of arteries. {See page 500.) The complete division of an artery thus wounded and bleedim- will sometimes be followed by an immediate arrest of the hasmorrhao-a (б) Adhesion to Its sheath is another frequent mode *of preventing the contraction and retraction of a cut artery. In certain situations this occurs normally—e.g. the scalp and the penis—and it is met with in disease* as the result of chronic periarteritis and .edema. Wounds in such parts and cases bleed