850 INJURIES OF JWNES. are laid upon a couple of wooden “knife-edges” raised above the level of the clothes by two stout cross bars, to the upper surface of which the knife edges are screwed (Fig. 293); or the limb may be laid on a padded board (cradle) running by means of four castors on another board (tray) with raised edges (Fig. 294). The lower castors should raise the foot-end a little, and the limb is kept on the cradle by a few wooden pegs in lateral holes, to which the foot is fixed in Fig. 29G.—Liston’s long Splint. proper position. A comparatively light weight becomes effective when one or other of these appliances is used. Counter-extension is made by raising the foot of the bed. When there is no shortening, extension may be used as a comfortable means of fixing the limb : in addition, a sheet may be thrown over the limb, and in it, upon each side, a long heavy sand-bag is rolled up till it lies close to the limb placed as may be desired; pins through the sheet now fix the bags so that they keep the sheet tense. A limb may thus be very securely held ; but fiiction is so great that there is no real “exten- sion ” acting. Extension plus a broad well-padded band buckled firmly round the trochanters is a good way of treating fractures of the neck. Extension plus short side splints (Fig. 295) is an excellent method of treating many fractures of the middle portion of the shaft. Exten- sion and counter-extension are made to reduce the shortening, and maintained while four short kettleholder splints padded with a layer of boric lint are laid round the limb, and fixed by two or three webbing straps and Imckles drawn firmly round them, The upper and lower fragments should now rotate together, but a little extra support is given to the outer side of the foot by the stirrup. (2) Liston's long splint maintains horizontal extension, and fixes the fragments and all the joints concerned. The splint is J to ^ in. deal, 3 to 4f in. wide, and long enough to reach from below the axilla to 5 or 6 in. beyond the foot; it has two notches at its lower, two holes through its upper end (Fig. 296). The limb below the fracture is firmly attached to the splint by four figure-of-8 turns round the splint and dorsum of the foot, and through the terminal notches,