DISEASES OF BONES. 890 or the joint invaded. Thus caries fungosa and necrotica are com- bined in the same tuberculous area, for small particles of bone may be isolated by the invasion and irregular growth of tubercle, and be cut off from their vascular connections. The tuberculous deposit may, on the other hand, be walled in by a healthy vascular growth in the surrounding rarefied bone, and slowly undergo partial absorp- tion and calcification, whilst the surrounding inflammatory infiltra- tion ossifies, and becomes sclerosed. This is the condition spoken of as caries sicca. If this occurs at the epiphysial line of a long bone, it may cause premature ossification and a shortened bone ; or, on the other hand, in rare instances it may fall short of sclerosis, and merely irritate the growing bone to greater activity, and result in elongation. (See also Art. XXXIII.) Chronic abscess of bone is a variety only of the tuberculous osteomyelitis, occurring in the cancellous tissue at the end of a long bone. Its pathological history is the same as the above, but its clinical features will require a separate description, which will be given later. Caries, which is essentially a tuberculous process, has usually been described as ulceration of bone. It will be admitted that we do occasionally meet with tuberculous disease of the surface or cortex of bone, but it is certainly rare; the term cg.rics, if em- ployed at all, should be used in this sense only. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Tuberculous diseases of bone are insidious in origin, slow in progress, and very tedious in recovery. Pain or lameness is often the first indication of the disease, and the foinner is more severe at night than at other times. But some complication may be the first sign pointing to the nature of the case. Enlargement of bone and tenderness on pressure must be looked for in the situations already mentioned, namely, the ends of long bones, the phalanges, and the tarsus or carpus. The signs of the disease in the vertebrae ai’e considered in a separate article. In time the super- ficial tissues are involved, and oedema, redness, and a small area of fluctuation become evident. Or without any signs of inflammation, a collection of fluid may be felt some distance from the surface or beneath the skin. The latter is generally called a “ chronic abscess,” and may remain indefinitely of the same size, or slowly increase till the skin becomes thin, and the fluid is evacuated spontaneously or by the surgeon’s knife. If the cavity has been opened, a certain definite line of treatment is followed, which will be described presently. If it open spontaneously, a sinus is left which is of itself an indication of the nature of the case. The fluid is thin and watery, con- taining often gritty j^a^'tides of bone, unless infection by pyogenic organisms has taken place, when true pus may be present. The granulations are cedematous and “ pouting,” instead of being florid and vascular, as in the true suppuration of necrosis from pyogenic infection. On the introduction of a probe, it will pass through soft and friable bone, meeting with irregularities of surface, but no hard and ringing sequestrum so characteristic of ordinary necrosis. Tho