798 INJURIES OF BONES. not, like the ultimately unnecessary portions of healthy callus, become absorbed. This calhts luxurians, like spurious cheloid in superficial scars, may occur in any bone, but is most common about the joint- ends of long bones, and especially the upper end of the femur. The bony masses thrown out interfere with the movements of the joints, and may absolutely fix them by extending from bone to bone—e.g. the masses on the femur irritating the hip-bone till new bone is formed upon its surface with which they blend. No true ankylosis occurs. Again, exuberant callus occasionally joins together two parallel bones (Fig. 315), even when only one is fractured. This is of importance only in the fore-arm, where it may destroy pronation and supination; but some mobility may be preserved by the for- mation of a false joint between the callus and the second bone (Fig. 230). Treatment.—Removal of the mass causing trouble, or excision of the joint in suitable cases. Tumours of callus.—New growths occurring at seats of fracture, either recent or old, are very rare. To get a very moderate number together, statisticians have been forced to include cases of tumour appearing years after the injury. Two points of interest have prompted the inquiry—(1) a fracture induces the formation of a mass of embryonic tissue (callus) in place of the relatively quiescent cells of the bone and periosteum : is it not likely that this mass will sometimes grow uncontrollably and develop into a tumour 1 Such a question can arise only in connection with recent callus. (2) Irritation is often given as a cause of tumour : may not the irritation of a fracture lead to the formation of a new growth 1 From this point of view, old callus might possibly be regarded as scar tissue; but the chief interest lies again in cases of tumour developing in close time- relation with a fracture. But in no case does the close relationship of time and place between the tumour and the fracture prove anything ; the cases are so rare that the occurrence of an ordinary fracture at or close to a point of bone in which a tumour in its earliest stage was present may equally well be assumed. In the later cases there must always be room for doubt as to the exact point of origin of a growth—from callus or adjacent bone—and as to the existence of any causal connection between the old injury and the tumour. Varieties.—B. Pollard reported the case of a girl of five whose leg was amputated by Marcus Beck for supposed sarcoma of the tibia. At one year she had fallen, and was unable to use the leg for two weeks (fracture 1); at two-and-a-half years the leg began to swell and curve. On section a large mass, having the structure of callus, occupied the central portion of the tibia, and a smaller similar tumour, quite distinct, lay on the fibula. Pollard regarded the case as probably one of hypertrophy of callus, but several points are doubtful. A few enchondromata developing six months to several years after a fracture, apparently at its seat, are on record ; some reached an enormous size. Some which became generalised