CIRSOID ANEURYSM. but as a rule, the arteries feeding the “ aneurysm ’’ are so numerous that di"ital compression of those felt does not entirely arres the pulsation. Tlie skin over the swelling is hotter than natural and has a dull bluish colour; it may be thin, or thickened and nimnented, or with an abundant growth of hair. ^ ° The tumour may remain stationary and cause little or no incon- venience ; in very rare instances it has been known to undergo spontaneous cure. More often it steadily, and even rapidly, enlarges, involving more and more vessels. If the skin over it ulcerates, the bleedin"s which occur gradually exhaust the patient. The°«liasnosis is usually very easy. From common aneurysm it is distinguished by its position, irregular outline, compressibility, and by the enlargement of the vessels feeding it. The character of the bruit, and the effects of compressing the mam artery of the jiart, differ in the two cases. Cirsoid aneurysm following upon an injury mif'ht be mistaken for a varicose aneurysm, as the bruit and thrill, and the enlargement of many vessels, are somewhat alike in the two cases ; but the tumour formed by a cirsoid aneurysm is less well-defined and its pulsation is not arrested by the compression of a single arterial From aneurysmal varix a cirsoid aneurysm is distinguished by noting that the tumour is arterial, not venous, that it is connected with several arteries, and that its pulsation is not controlled by com- pression of a single arterial trunk. Xreatineiit.—Owing to the ill-defined character of the tumour, its tendency to spread and involve new vessels, and still more to the fact that the aneurysm is fed by many arteries, so that cutting off the supply of blood from one, or even several, sources does not starve it, the treatment of cirsoid aneurysm is beset with special diflaculty and often fails altogether. In some cases, after temporary improvement —mistaken for “cure”—the tumour has developed again. There- fore if the aneurysm is not increasing in size, is not ulcerating, and is not causing grave distress to the patient, the surgeon should be content to protect it with a metal or leather covering, if in a part exposed to injury, and should not undertake any operation for it. If, however, the tumour is growing, or the skin over it is ulcerating and threatens to open a vessel, or if haemorrhage has already occurred, an attempt to cure the disease must be made, and the surgeon must choose one of the following methods, according to the nature of the particular case. (1) Excision of the angeioma.—The operator must be very careful to cut wide of the diseased vessels, and to tie each artery as it is divided. Neglect of either of these precautions may lead to frightful haemorrhage. This method is applicable to cases of limited extent and fairly circumscribed in character. (2) Ligaktre of the angeioma is preferred by some to its excision. It is unattended with the risk of haemorrhage, if the ligatures are care- fully passed beyond the tumour. It may be followed by recurrence of the growth and in this respect is less reliable than excision. It T 2