309 GLANDERS. nroduces hi^ily characteristic brown masses. It is not coloured by Km sSns used for bacillus tuberculosis, and is readdy decolorised fw nitric acid The organism is most readily shown in sections by tTth methylene blue, and decolorising with weak acetic Stamm and LblEer); it is usually most abundantly found m smll Mdules of recent 'formation. Recently mallein. a aubatance s?maa. to the tuberculin of Koch, hat been employed hypodermically as a diat^nostic and curative agent. It produces a chai acteristic re action in glandered animals, but up to the present the results have not proved altogether satisfactory, as reaction sometimes occurs in animKils in whom no trace of glanders is discoverable after death. Tt has been used in human glanders (Bonome). , , c Mode of infection.—Glanders may result from the bite of an infected animal, or a pre-existing wound or abrasion may become inoculated. It appears also that the contagion may be inhaled oi arrested on the mucous membrane of the eye, nose, or mouth of persons standing near when a glandered animal sneezes. The disease may pass from man to man ; but recorded instances of this are rare. Fatal cases have been observed from the accidental inoculation of workers with experimental cultures of the bacillus. Period of incubation.—This may vary from one to fifteen days, but is occasionally much prolonged (Bristowe). Morbid anatomy.—Glanders is characterised by the formation of nodules in the nasal mucous membrane, the respiratory passages, and internal organs; also by the development of nodules and abscesses in and beneath the skin, and in the muscles In the chronic form, indolent sweUings of the lymphatic glands are common; but in the acute, the glands often remain unaffected. When affected, the nasal mucous membrane is dotted with numerous miliary papules, grey or yellowish-grey in colour, many of which may have broken down, leaving deep ragged ulcers, with bare or necrosed bone at their bases, the condition sometimes extending to the various accessory sinuses. Similar nodules are found in the larynx, trachea, and lungs. In the latter organs they are scattered through- out, and vary in size from that of a miliary tubercle to masses measuring an inch in diameter. The pulmonary deposits usually lie near the pleural surface, are whitish, and more or less arborescent in appearance, and may be unsurrounded by any marked inflam- matory area; hence, pleuritic changes may be absent. Nodules may be found on the conjunctiva and in the skin generally; tlie^ latter corresponding to the cutaneous eruption. The abscesses in^ the limbs are deep and irregular, containing pus and abundant tissue debris. In acute glanders the secondary abscesses are indistinguish- able from ordinary pysemic deposits ; in the chronic form there is a tendency to caseation. In the horse, the deposits of acute glanders when internal are usually limited to the respiratory passages; in farcy, numerous subcutaneous nodules connected by long indurated cords, corresponding to the lymphatic trunks, are met with. Symptoms.—These may be either acute or chronic, wliile, as in