INJURIES OF RIjOOD-VESSEUS. 506 solution ; then if a vein be cut this fluid, and not air, is drawn into the heart, and no ill-effect follows. If, while operating, the peculiar sucking sound of air entering a vein is heard, or frothy blood is seen in the wound, the finger should be instantly placed over the vein until it can be secured with a forceps or ligature. This is to prevent the further entrance of air and the loss of blood. If the vein cannot be thus instantly secured, the wound should be immediately flooded with fluid, which will, at least, prevent all further suction of air. Having done this, the surgeon’s aim is to maintain the heart’s action until the obstruction in the pulmonary vessels is overcome by the gradual solution of the air or its escape into the air cells, and to furnish a sufficient supply of blood to the brain to prevent fatal syncope. The patient should be placed flat on his back with his head hanging over the end of the table, and the axillaiy and common femoral arteries should be compressed, so as to increase the proportion of arterial blood going to the brain. Stimulants should be administered freely—ammonia to the nostrils, ether subcutaneously, brandy by enema, and a sinapism over the prsecordia. Attempts to suck the air out of the right side of the heart are useless; in children firm compression of the chest may succeed in expelling air from the wounded vein—not from the heart—but it embarrasses respiration, and, if at all, should only be practised once very rapidly. Artificial respiration, with a view of aiding the circulation through the pulmonary capillaries, has been recommended, but Treves considers this a dangerous measure to adopt. II. HEMORRHAGE. The natural arrest of haemorrhage and the repair of injured vessels.—Haemorrhage, or the escape of blood from the heart and blood-vessels, is the most constant eifect of injury, a frequent result of disease, and the invariable accompaniment of a surgical operation. Any loss of blood may be serious, and to the untutored eye it is always alarming. When furious and uncon- trolled it is quickly fatal, and in some circumstances its arrest taxes the courage and resource of the boldest and most experienced surgeon. In certain positions, as within the skull and spinal canal, and in the mouth, air-passages, and thorax, the escaped blood causes the most serious indirect effects. For no other condition is surgical treatment so entirely eflicient, and there is none for the relief of which patients are so dependent upon skilled assistance. All these circumstances combine to render the study of hsemorrhage and its treatment of supreme importance. In studying the repair of injured vessels, we have to notice two distinct processes—the arrest of hcsmorrhage and the formation of a cicatrix in the wounded vessel. These processes are of great scientific interest, but they are also of vital practical im- portance. It is true that Nature unaided can, in a large proportion of cases, arrest hiemorrhage before a fatal loss of blood is sustained ;