DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 560 where present, the blood-clot—organises into fibrous tissue, new vessels passing down into it from the vasa vasorum. The arteries are felt first of all to be firmer than natural with feeble pulsation, and then they become hard, enlarged, and tender pulseless cords, and finally these cords shrink and lose their sensitiveness. The disease is a chronic one, often extending over years; but in some cases, at any rate, it is arrested spontaneously. The parts supplied by the affected arteries are pale and cold, livid on exposure, wasted, and the seat of pain, which may be intense. Dry gangrene of the extremities may occur. When the disease is very severe, the pain is excessive, and slight pyrexia may be produced. It has been met with in both the upper and the lower limb, more often the latter. No special treatment has been found of any avail. While the disease is in progress the part affected should be kept at rest and warmly swathed; anodynes may be required. Afterwards great care must be taken to preserve the ansemic parts from exposure to cold. Amputation has been practised when gangrene has occurred. This disease stands in need of a distinctive name, for other forms of arteritis are equally “ obliterating,” “ proliferating,” and “hyperplastic”; for this we must wait, until its cause has been ascertained. Other affections of arteries.—Periarteritis is an inflammation of the tunica adventitia and sheath of an artery. As an independent affection it is rare. It is stated to occur in the cerebral vessels, and cause such weakening of their walls as to lead to rupture, and Charcot stated that it is a frequent cause of senile apoplexy. Occurring in the limbs, it Fig. 161.—Tubu- occasions swelling in the course of an artery with tion of an Ax- pam and tenderness, but owing to the disease not ^spitS affecting the inner coats, no thrombosis occurs ; the Museum.) pulse is not lost, nor is the nutrition of the parts supplied by the artery interfered with. Calcification of arteries.—Calcification is, as we have seen, a frequent termination of atheroma, large flat plates often being found in the aorta and other large arteries. This form is known as laminar or secondary calcification (Fig. 159). Calcareous degeneration is also met with as a primary change afi'ecting the middle coat of arteries. The lime-salts are deposited in the muscular fibre cells, and as these run circularly round the arteries, calcareous rings are formed, and this variety is therefore known as annular or primary calcification; when, by the extension of the degeneration, adjacent rings are welded together, it is known as tubular calcification (Fig. 161). This disease is a senile change, it occurs symmetrically, and is often associated with atheroma. Its chief seat is in the small—not the smallest— arteries, but it is common in the brachial, popliteal and femoral