WRIST JOINT DISEASE. 1131 to escape the effect of those forces in a way that in a more unyielding part would not be possible. The syiiiptoiiis of acute synovitis of the wrist, however produced, are similar to those observed in other joints. At first there is stiff- ness, then pain of a dull acliing character follows, and before long swelling most marked on the dorsal aspect. If the affection be very acute, and especially if septic, there will be oedema of the subcutan- eous tissue. Fluctuation of fluid in the joint can rarely be felt, the capsule being comparatively small and covered on both aspects by tendons. In uncomplicated cases the latter move freely and without pain in their sheaths, and the fingers can be flexed and extended without difficulty. But in many cases the inflammatory irritation has extended from the joint to the tendon sheaths, and all movements of the tendons within the latter are painful, as is also pressure over the joint. The treatment of simple traumatic cases is easily carried out. It consists in absolute rest on a splint, such as that depicted in Fig. Fig. 463.—Leather SpKut for the Wrist. 463 and in the elevated position. General rest in bed will also be desirable at first, to quiet the circulation, and saline aperients will also help in relieving vascular tension. Locally, ice or evaporating lotions may be applied at the outset, and, later, hot fomentations with belladonna. If seen very early leeches ought to be applied in cases where there is much ten-si on. Under these remedies, simple acute synovitis, as a rule, subsides rapidly in robust individuals, and nothing but stiffness and some swelling is _ left behind. These effects will often give much trouble, owing to the painful neuralgic conditions left, as the consequence of the bygone inflammation and the consequent dis- inclination of the patient to use the part. They are best met by rubefacients and massage, followed by regular passive motion. Sometimes it will be necessary to break down adhesions under an ancesthetic, but this must be resorted to with much caution. When all traces of active inflammation have passed off, the patient should be encouraged to use the hand freely in every way. When this acute inflammation is due to sepsis, early incisions should be made into the.joint behind at either side of the extensor tendons, followed by free flushing of the sac, either with sterilised hot water or some mild germicide. The cavity is also to be carefully K K * 2