OSTEOMALACIA. 899 Reports (vol. x.), began to suffer between tlie ages of twenty-five and thirty-five. It would be out of place liere to discuss the theories that have been advanced to explain the reason why the bones should be so extensively diseased whilst the rest of the tissues remain to all appearances unaltered. {See also page 729.) Patlioiog-ical anatomy.—The disease consists essentially in a softening of the bony tissue. The earthy matter is in the first place absorbed, leaving the organic matrix with a faint indication of its lacunfB and canabculi, producing an appearance somewhat similar to a microscopical specimen of bone which has been treated with liydrochloric acid. The parts decalcified are gradually transformed into a soft gelatinous tissue, without any osseous trabeculse. The process goes on till the whole of the interior of the bone is converted into a substance like jeUy, leaving, however, a thin layer of cortex beneath the periosteum. The vessels, no longer contained in rigid walls, allow their blood to escape, so that the semi-fluid pulp-like substance previously described is always more or less blood-stained. Symptoms—Nothing definite is complained of except pains like rheumatism, till some very obvious defonnity points out the nature of the case. Most frequently the discovery is made by the family doctor from an examination of the pelvis durmg partu- rition. The pelvic .bones may at first be alone affected. The pro- montory of the sacrum is thrust forward by the weight of the body, whdst the sides of the pelvis are made to approximate by pressure acting through the two femora. The pelvis thus assumes the beaked form so characteristic of this disease, as distinguished from the rachitic pelvis. {See Fig. 75, page 369.) The bones in osteomalacia, being soft, may be bent and altered in shape by the hands of the medical attendant: a change which cannot possibly be accomplished in the deformity produced by rickets. The spine may also be very seriously deformed, and chiefly by a very great increase of its natural curvatures. The thorax may be distorted by the bending or fracture of ribs from the action ot the respiratory muscles. The bones of the extremities may be bent and broken in many places, allowing the feet to touch the head, or the limbs to assume the most fantastic shapes. The resulting deformity is the most exaggerated and most extreme condition of which the human skeleton is capable. At the same time it should be remembered that the changes may be confined o the bones of the pelvis and lower part of spine, and never progress beyond this portion of the body. The urine has almost always, when examined, contained an excess of lime salts, pointing to the conclusion that the inorganic constituents of bone are eliminated through the kidneys. The disease does not of itself appear to be fatal, but a laro-e proportion of recorded cases have died from mechanical difficulty ■ parturition. Apart from this cause of death, the patients may live a very long time in a crippled and bedridden