DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1050 in as some years ago. Again, the application of an elastic bandage for several consecutive hours daily, followed by massage, has been recommended as a means of reducing the passive engorgement of the synovial membrane. This method is of much benefit in early cases, and ought to be more widely employed than is at present the case. , . , Another mode of treatment has of late come much into use, especially in Germany ; and at a recent meeting of the Surgical Society in Berlin I had the opportunity of hearing the opinions as to its value expressed by many prominent surgeons. Almost all were agreed that it had made the treatment of tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane far more satisfactory than formeily was the case, and had rendered operative interference far less necessary than hitherto. This method is the injection of iodoform powder suspended in glycerine, into the affected tissues. The influence of this drug in checking the growth of the bacillus tuberculosis In^ been much disputed by many bacteriologists and patholo^sts, but I have been always struck with the always unanimous verdict in its tavour of those surgeons who have had the largest practical experience of its use in clinical work. It is used in these cases as follows: ien per cent, of finely powdered iodoform is suspended in pure glycerine, with 20 per cent, of sterilised water ; and of this flmd about a drachm is injected into various parts of the diseased synovial mem- brane with a coarse hypodermic needle, until about one ounce has been used. This injection may be repeated at intervals ot about two weeks. In some cases symptoms of iodoform intoxication have been observed, but this is rare. This treatment is usually com bined with immobilisation of the part and massage. j • j Another mode also of dealing with these cases has been devised and practised by Dr. Bier of Kiel. This is known as the method of “Hyperiemic Engorgement,” and consists in applying an elastic bandage over the extremity as far as the affected joint, leaving the latter "bare, and again applying a bandage above the joint in sue a way as to produce an engorgement of all the vessels m and around the joint for some hours daily. This, it is stated, is followed by arrest of the tubercular process and death of any tubercular toci already present in the part. Those who have tried this hio-hly of it, but I gather from others who have employed it and the iodoform treatment, that the latter has satisfied them better. It is not to be supposed, however, that either of these two method will supersede the opening of tuberculous abscesses when they hai e formed, nor the removal of diseased bone in certain cases TlnsjMi always be proper in any case. But where the disease is fairly early in development, both methods deserve a further trial. 4. Gouty and chronic rheumatic joint affections. There naturally follow upon the syphilitic and tuberculous group of synovial affections another set which exhibit their P^^ liarities in degenerative changes, although cell-proliferation is also present as a secondary process. These affections are, lioweAe , y