370 RIOKETS. Pelvis.—The downward pressure of the spine gives rise to increase of the sacro-vertebral angle, while the Lateral pressure exerted by the femora or the acetabula flattens the lateral wall of the pelvis. The weight of the abdominal contents expands the ilia, while the ischial tubero- sities are inverted. In this way the triangular or heart-shaped pelvis is produced; when ex- treme, one of the most serious bony deformities in women, as affecting parturition (Fig. 75). £.ong- bones.—The notable changes are enlargement of the epiphyses, exaggeration of the normal curves, the development of pressure curves, and of mus- cular apophyses in certain posi- tions ; and later, deficiency in proportional length. In the upper extremity the lower epiphysis of the radius and those about the elbow usually exhibit the most marked enlargement: perhaps because most readily investigated by palpation. The curves of the clavicle may be exaggerated, and an abnormal outward curva- ture of the humerus, the greatest convexity of which corresponds to the insertion of the deltoid muscle is not uncommon. In children who, from inability to walk, have crawled freely, the bones of the fore-arm are often strongly curved outwards, espe- cially in the lower third. The production of this deformity is readily explained by bearing in mind the direction of the pres- sure brought to bear on the spreading pronated fore - arm and hand in this form of progression. In the lower limb epiphysial enlargements are readily detected at the anlde and about the knee, but in slight cases they are less marked than in the upper extremity. The degree of deformity varies greatly. In children who have been unable to walk during the most active part of the disease, little defomity or varying slight exaggerations of the normal curvatures are met with- When, Fig. 76.—Adult Femur and Tibia in a case of cured Eictets. Note angle of femur, gluteal troebonter, overgrowth at inner section of lower epiphysis of femur, curves of both bones, and buttress to curve of femur.