85G INJUBIJjJS OF BONFS. is moved. The sound leg is fixed by a clove-hitch round the ankle to the bed-frame and generally the shoulders are fixed by a web- bing band which leaves the arms free. A long back splint and short side splints of Gooch’s material give additional security, but are not always necessary. Fractures of the neck in old people which are not expected to heal may be treated by the pelvic band and either horizontal extension, the double inclined plane and extension in the line of the thigh, or Hodgen’s splint. If all goes well, they may lie thus for three to four weeks, having the hip massaged till tenderness and pain on movement have gone. Then, with a leather hip-splint (Fig. 304), a starch spica getting a good grip upon the thigh, or a special splint with a joint that can be locked straight opposite the hip, with a high heel on the sound side and a pair of crutches, the patient will begin to get about. After two to three months some weight can be borne on the broken limb; the high heel should be removed and the heel on the injured side raised. Gradually a stick will replace the crutches. If circumstances require it, the move out of bed must be made at an earher date. All these splints except the last render sitting impossible; so, too, does a single Thomas’s hip-splint, which can be apphed with a water-glass bandage, and enables a patient to move about early. This seems to be the chief point — some exercise to ward ofl hypostasis. Fractures of the neck in which hony union is expected are prefer- ably treated with a pelvic band and Hodgen’s splint, or with simple extension j eight to twelve weeks must be allowed foi union, but generally after six weeks the patient may get up with the hip fixed by a Thomas’s splint or starched bandage. l7Tip(iGi6d fTQjCtiiTBS of t1i6 Thcck sh.ould bo Cctrcfully handled and comfortably placed till union has had time to occur. Great deformity might lead one, in fractures apparently of the base, to break down the impaction and treat as usual. Southam has recently carried out this treatment with good result. ^ Fractures of the shaft in adults are best treated with a Thomas s knee-splint, a Hodgen’s splint, or with short splmts and hoi’izontal extension. In young children vertical suspension, in older children Thomas’s splint, are preferable. Union takes five to six weeks in cliildreii, seven to ten in adults. Supra-condyloid fractures.—If there be no angular displace- ment a Thomas’s splint or horizontal extension between sandbags will give a o-ood result. When the characteristic flexion of the lower fragment is present, the double inclined plane with extension in the line of the thigh occurs as suitable j some have apparently found it so, but the grip on tlie lower fragment may be insuflicient to prevent marked shortening, and the lower fragment tends to drop bade from the upper. Hodgen’s splint is more likely to succeed. Should these methods fail, we must, on Bryants suggestion, dmclc the tendo Achillis, and then treat by horizontal extension, or a