TETANUS. 198 animals experimentally inoculated are infectious, except the pus and, for a time, the recently inoculated tissues. However, it may be found that this assertion needs modification. Buedinger discovered that very small bits of the lymphatic glands in connection with the wound would cause tetanus when transplanted into rodents. Schnitzler has confirmed this observation, and found sporeless tetanus bacilli in the substance of the lymphatic glands. Shakespeax’e induced tetanus in rabbits by subdural inoculation with an emulsion of the spinal cord or medulla of horses and mules that have died of that disease. I myself grew an impure culture of tetanus bacilli from the spinal cord of a man who had died of tetanus, and caused tetanus in mice by inoculating these impure cultures. Moreover, I was of opinion that tetanus bacilli could be seen upon the pia mater and arachnoid of the man’s spinal cord. If it could be shown that the tetanus bacillus has its habitat within the body upon the pia mater and arachnoid, this would go far to explain the clinical features of the disease. After its passage through a series of animals such as guineapigs the tetanic poison becomes attenuated as was shown by Bossano. This is one of the facts which bears upon the question of the varying severity of the disease. Animals that have recovered from an attack of tetanus are for a long period protected against further inoculation, and it is pro- bable thlit this immunity is produced in human beings. Tizzoni and Cattani have made the curious observation that in animals the immunity is transmissible from the mother to her ofifspring; possibly through her milk, which contains antitoxin, Up to the present it has been thought that when the tetanus bacillus has been inoculated, it multiplies for a time at the point of inoculation. Here it manufactures that most potent toxin which Brieger has isolated and called tetanin, and which Faber is of opinion is of the nature of a diastase, as it is destroyed by a heat of 65“ C. This toxin, whatever its exact nature may be, is supposed to become absorbed from the wound, and by its action upon the nervous system to produce the symptoms which have been described. Fermi and Celli say that this poison has no action when introduced by mouth or rectum, and is not acted upon by bile, pancreatic juice, .■saliva, or by bacteria of various kinds, but is destroyed by the gastric juice. .11 1 Treatment of tetanus.—The treatment of tetanus IS local and general. With regard to the local treatment, the wound may contain infective pieces of wood, or glass, and therefore it ought always to be carefully searched. This procedure may require an anaesthetic. If small, the whole of the wound may be excised, although I have never seen any actual benefit result from this measure. In any case it should be thoroughly exposed and disinfected, and any damaged tissues removed. In addition to the ordinary disinfectants, such as have just been mentioned, a ten per cent, solution of peroxide of hydrogen may be used. When the wound is upon an extremity, amputation