1026 DISLOCATIONS. with useful limbs have been recorded than in any other. The follow- ing rules are of general application only, and the results of modem aseptic surgery may serve as an apology for differing from such authorities as Broca, Morris, and Bryant:— ^ (1) In all complete compound dislocations of the astragalus excise the displaced bone at once, if reduction is impossible. (2) In all irreducible complete simple dislocations excise the bone, as the injury generally becomes secondarily compound, with sloughing, fever, and severe constitutional disturbance. (3) In backward irreducible dislocations or rotatory displace- ments, with abolition of the functions of the ankle joint, excise the bone in the young and healthy j leave it alone in the aged, diseased, or intemperate. . . When performing excision of the astragalus in these cases, it is the greatest error to gouge out the bone piecemeal through a small opening, as is too usually the practice. Bearing in mind the extreme violence that has been at work, and the probable extensive laceration of tissues, a free anterior incision should be made, the whole bone removed, and no fragments of it left to necrose and cause irritation. Effused blood should be flushed away with the hot douche, and fragments of torn ligaments, muscles, and tendons trimmed with a sharp scissors. All cut tendons should be united by catgut, and most free and efficient drainage provided in a_ dependent position. In the dislocation backwards an appropriate incision should be made posteriorly, if the bone is to be removed. The foot after excision of the astragalus is surprisingly useful; and the above practice, if carefully carried out, will give good results. ? rpr After-treatment of reduced dislocations of the astragalus, inc foot should be kept at right angles on a well-padded splint, and .spirit lotion constantly applied. The ice-bag should be used with caution, as the integrity of the skin is probably already severely tried. So soon as reduction of swelling will allow, the plaster dress- ing should always be employed, and in about six weeks passive motion may be commenced. Subastragaloid dislocation of the foot. Causaiioit and classification.—The confusion that has arisen between tins dis- placement and dislocation of the astragalus renders their compiira- tive frequency difficult to compute accurately. I would yentme to question the statement usually laid down as to the great ran y of subastragaloid dislocations of the foot, and belies that these accidents are at least as common as dislocations of the astraga u. pure and simple. The distinction is obvious and important, in Lbastragaloid dislocation the astragalus remains fixed in its ^ox,^ head of the bone maintaining its proper relation to the IFiw 427) This dislocation is caused by the same class “ mentioned, and it seeme a matter of trial o ^ ^ groups of ligaments, as to Avhetlier the astragalus shall be t Sf the ankle, or the oe calcia displaced from under the aj In order of frequency, the.se displacements may be (1) outN^uds o