1 1128 DISEASES OF JOINTS dissected away completely. The olecranon is then wired in its old position, and the wounds are closed. Any secondary foci found in the bone must at the same time be removed with gouge or chisel. When such an operation has been done with perfect asepsis, the result is frequently complete arrest of the disease, and a limb’ but little impaired in usefulness. But, in very young children, it is better, perhaps, to deal with the foci of softening as they occur, by opening and scraping them out, the limb being kept at a right angle the whole time. This is a joint which lends itself par excellence to Bier’s treatment together with the injection of iodoform in suspension (page i050). When the bones are the seat of the primary tuberculous disease in children, or are deeply involved in disease se- condaiy to the synovial affection, the same rule of waiting and dealing with the foci as they soften may be followed, but with adults the case is different. In these the joint must be opened as just described, and all tuberculous osseous tissue be removed. In many cases it may be possible to do this without sacrificing the ends of the bones completely, by dividing the olecranon and using the gouge freely, but often it will be necessary to adopt the old classical excision in one or other of its forms. It is very hard to lay down rules for guidance in these cases, but this much may be said, that surgery is becoming every day more conservative in dealing with them. It will be remembered that the osseous form of tuberculous disease in the elbow may start fi’om either of the three bones primarily, either at the epiphysial lines or under the encrusting cartilage, or it may be secondary to disease commencing primarily in the synovial membrane as in Fig. 461. In Fig. 462 the disease is seen distinctly in three situations—(a) under the encrust- ing cartilage; (6) in the epiphysis of the olecranon; (c) in the synovial pouches. Position after excision.—When partial or complete excision of the elbow has been performed, the question arises : What position is best for the joint during the process of healing? Formerly, that of flexion to a right angle and semi-pronation was always recom- mended in view of possible, or, indeed, probable anchylosis. But now, with aseptic wounds, we need not fear the latter so much, and may put up the limb at first quite straight or semi-flexed, with slight pronation; in fact, in the position of greatest ease to the patient. Fig. 461.—Tuberculous Disease of the Elho'v, starting in the synovial membrane and ex- tending to the cartilages.