618 ANEURYSM. vessels enlarge, and by it the limb below the ligature is nourished. The force of the circulation being thus removed, the blood in the aneurysm coagulates, and the clot extends into the artery, and causes a second block in the main blood channel. This thrombus organises, and so leads to the cure of the aneurysm. What we have seen above in considering the effects of compression (page 613) as to the gradual or sudden occurrence of this complete coagulation is equally true when the artery is tied. In some cases—the majority—all the blood in aneurysm at once clots, and often that in the artery, too ; but in other cases the coagulation is partial, and repeated until the cure is completed. This second block in the main artery may necessi- tate the enlargement of a second set of anastomos- ing channels, to carry the blood from the patent part of the artery between the ligature and the aneurysm into the vessels below. The vitality of the parts below the aneurysm thus comes to depend upon the sufficiency, of a double set of anastomosing arteries, and it is exposed to great peril. It is for this reason that gangrene is more likely to occur when an artery is ligatured for aneurysm than for any other cause. In some cases—as, for example, in ligature of the lower part of the common carotid artery for an aneurysm at the bifurcation of this trunk —no branches intervene between the ligature and the sac. Then, when the thread is tied, the onward flow of blood into the artery and aneurysm is entirely arrested, and only a regurgitant flow from the vessels beyond the aneurysm occurs. The cure is brought about in the same way as before, l)y the clotting of the blood in the sac of the aneurysm now that it is freed from the force of the circulation. In these cases the clot fills the whole length of the artery from the ligature to the aneurysm, and all this part of ^the vessel is permanently obliterated. There is no reason to think that this clot results from a gradual growth of that formed on the distal side of the ligature. Rather it is that the whole mass of stagnant blood coagulates. Only one set of anastomoses are enlarged, from the vessels on the cardiac side of the ligature to those on the distal side of the aneurysm. Even when there are branches between the ligature and the aneurysm, clotting and permanent occlusion of the main vessel sometimes occur in the whole length of the vessel. Thus, in a case of Hunter’s, in which lie ligatured the superficial femoral artery for a popliteal aneurysm, the artery was found to be permanently obliterated from the origin of the profunda femoris to just above the bifurcation of the jxipliteal tiunk , but this result is the exception, for Savory has shown that of seven- teen cases cf ligature of the femoral for popliteal aneurysm the Fig. 180.—An Artery that had been tied in its Con- tinuity, showing Obliteration of the Vessel for half an inch only.