47 AN AERO BIO BAOTEETA. inoculation, in wliich a peculiar crackling associated with a condition of emphysema may be felt. On the death of the animal, which usually takes place within 24 or 48 hours, bloody serum is found infiltrating the subcutaneous and intei’muscular tissue. In this serum the bacillus is found, but so frequently mixed with other oi’ganisms that the best method of obtaining a pure culture is to remove a drop of blood from the heart, iinder strict antiseptic precautions, and incubate it in a sealed tube for 24 hours, at the end of which time the blood has gone much darker in colour, bubbles of gas have developed at points along the tube, and when the tip of the tube is bi-oken, drops of blood are forced out violently, in- dicating that owing to the formation of gas the pressure within the tube is very considerable. These bacilli taken from the tissues are from 3/u to 3'5yu long and Ifi to 1-1 fx broad, occurring either as single rods, in chains of two or three, or in long filaments containing twelve to fifteen of these rods or segments, the transverse divisions not being well marked. The bacilli differ from those of anthrax, in that they are not quite so broad, the segmentation in the longer chains is not nearly so distinct, and the ends of the rods are invariably convex. These organisms are not stained by Gram’s method. The short segments often contain spores, which are oval and sometimes of greater diameter than the bacillus itself, so that they cause swelling*^either at the end or in the middle, according to the position°of the spore. These spores may be stained in the same way as those of the tetanus bacillus. Flagella may also be demonstrated. This organism cannot gi’ow in the presence of oxygen, and is therefore an obligate anaerobe; it grows best and forms spores most abundantly at a temperature of 37° 0. Like the anthrax bacillus it does not forni spores in the body of the living animal in which it is deve- loped, but multiplies rapidly and forms spores readily after the death of the host, if the body is kept warm. This organism is best grown in nutrient gelatine, to which has been added 2 per cent, of grape sugar. Like the tetanus bacillus It does not grow near the surface, but fairly luxuriantly near the bottom of the tube As a result of this growth, the deeper part of the platme first becomes liquefied and cloudy in appearance, and gas bubbles form in considerable numbers, liquefaction being most marked where most gas is formed; ultimately the whole of the gelatine may become liquefied. When the gelatine is liquefied fliquefying points are formed in U e course of two or three days in the lower portion of the gelatine, wbe^ I’esemble the liquefied gelatine already descriLd, and when examined with a magnifying glass they are found to have wbTlf network, whilst the periphery has some- in the deSfor^'^'f The organism also grows n the depth of nutrient agar-agar and in blood serum, the latter med urn being rapidly liquefied. This organism may also be groi n in meat, to which a small quantity of water has been added, in a ffask