DISEASES OF CARTILAGE. 1057 of the injury. There would probably be some ccchymosis, localised swelling, tenderness, and pain, aggravated by particular movements. There would also, in all probability, be some effusion into the joint, due to the hypenemia having reached the synovial membrane, or the latter might have been injured at the same time. The treatment of inflammation of the ligaments of joints in the early stages does not differ from that described as suitable for synovitis (page 1035), and need not detain us. But in these cases the structures will require to be supported by strapping and bandages for longer periods than if the synovial membrane was alone affected. Inflammation of ligaments, once established, is very prone to become chronic, and to leave much weakness in the part affected. New growths.—Ligaments are not likely to be the seat of new growths, and are very rarely so affected j but they are occasionally the seat of cartilaginous or bony deposits, which may require operative treatment, on account of their interfering with the movements of the articulation. These are met with usually close to the insertion of the ligaments, so that it is difficult to say whether they have started in the latter or in the subjacent bone. {See page 907.) Unless these are actually interfering with the joint, it is well to abstain from operation upon them, inasmuch as they are not prone to grow to any magnitude, and usually, after a short period of activity, appear to remain stationary. In this they resemble the small ossifying chon dromata, which are so frequently found growing about the ends of the bones, close to the joints, and their pathology is probably the same. Secondary diseases of the ligaments are common, and are con- sidered with the affections with which they are associated. DISEASES OF THE CAETILAGES. Here, again, we find that primary disease is rare. Cartila"e plays but a subordinate part in the economy, its functions beinw almost passive, and it is a highly differentiated tissue, and ther^ fore exempted from fluctuations of circulation, which affect the more embryonic connective tissues. When it is diseased the affection is usually either the result of degenerative changes, or is secondary to inflammation in adjacent structures. New growths, again, startiim- from articular cartilage are almost unknown. ° Degenerative changes.—Degenerative changes in cartilage j osteo-arthritis and in Charcot’s disease, or°in the debility of extreme old age, commence usually as a fatty degenerit- tion of the protoplasm of the cells, which ultimately involves the whole °®’’Puscles. The latter, having in this way lost all their vitality, or having conversely undergone the change in consequence ot the loss o vital energy, break up. The cells having thus been destroyed, the matrix or less vital part soon follows, breakino' up first into columns and bands, and finally liquefying and exfoliatiim into the joint, until the surface of the bone is left bare. * Sometimes there are seen in the matrix itself rows of fatty