SIGNS OF aneurysm. mb , u to irie"ularity in the disposition of but"0 Ion.’as thi aneurysm has any cavity into which the systole, the pulsation is o£ an expamtle ri’r If the li nb is depressed, the force of the pulsation and rS^Sn S: aneurp£ay be noticed t^^ ^r/atstrand' limbs respec^ _ compressed above the ^ i as to arrest the flow of blood through it, the pulsation aneuiysm, Cf ceases, and the tumour shrinks and becomes • bv o-entle pressure the surgeon may then be able to empty dtill more If now the pressure is taken off the artery above, tiie Turnour mpidly fills out again, and in two or three beats resumes its former size^and^ tension. This shrinking of the tumour when the circulation is arrested is due to the elastic recoil of the stretched sac and adiacent tissues, and the degree to which the tumour can be emptied is a measure of the amount of fluid blood it contains. _ Hits ZTis the most distimctwe feature of aneurysm. Compression of the main artery just beyond the tumour is said to cause the tumoui 'xn^Mm-W^all, but not all, cases uhruitis, heard over an aneurysm; it is produced by the blood rushing into or out of the aneurysm, and is varied by the position, size, and shape of the mouth,^ and the dis- position of the sac and clot within it. The bruit is most often systolic in time and blowing in character ; it is heaicl equally we all over the tumour, and is not increased by moderate pressure of the stethoscope ; occasionally it is diastohc as well as systolic, and i may be harsh or musical in character. The rush of blood into the aneurysm may also cause a thrill in the sac with each heart-beat, this thrill is only felt over the tumour. The pulse in the artery beyond, when compared with that on the opposite side of the body, is delayed in time and usually is lessened in force ; sometimes it is absent, owing to obliteration of the artery. The sphygmogram may be characteristic (Fig. 174). The heart is usually hypertrophied, and the arteries are often found to be atheromatous. Various pressure-signs may be met with, j the veins below^ the aneurysm may be distended and varicose, and the subcutaneous tissue cedematous. Muscular weakness and wasting are frequently noticed, owing to defective nutrition, and paralysis may occur from pressure on nerves ; this increases the wasting. Striking examples of the effects of nerve pressure are the dilated pupil, and unilateral abductor palsy of the larynx from pressure on the cervical sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves respectively. The jmin of aneurysm may be slight or very severe. It is of two kinds : a constant deep aching, boring, or burning pain in and around the tumour, caused by the peri-aneurysmal inflammation, by the tension of the parts, and especially by absorption of bone; and a sharp lancinating pain referred to the areas of distribution of sensory