981 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. leave the soft parts in such a condition that a surgeon would be satisfied with simple reduction. Primary resection of the head of the bone, with free flushing and draina,ge, would be likely to give good results. Congenital dislocations of the humerus.—Care must be taken not to confound these cases with traumatic luxations or separations of the epiphysis, which may occur during the manipula- tions of obstetricians in complicated labours. The dislocations are commonly symmetrical, and may occur in any direction, but the subcoracoid seems the most frequent. The muscles round the joint are usually paralysed, the capsule weak and elongated, the head of the humerus altered in shape and size, and the bone much stunted in growth. The glenoid cavity is absent or ill-formed, and another cavity is found continuous with, or contiguous to it, where the deformed head of the humerus imperfectly articulates. Hitherto all treatment of these cases has been unsatisfactory. Dislocations of the elbow joint. Clasdfication.—It is possible to imagine a considerable number of dislocations at this joint, owing to the different direc- tions in which the bones may be thrown, and the fact that two bones may be separately or conjointly implicated. Only the more common and important dislocations will here receive notice. The radius and ulna may be dislo- —Dislocation of both Bones cated together, backwards, inwards, out- of ti'e Fore-arm backwards, wards, or forwards. They may be dis- placed in different directions, or either bone may be dislocated separately. All these displacements vary in degree of completeness. The various dislocations of elbow may be arranged in order of frequency as follows :—(1) Dislocation of the i-adius and ulna back- wards, (2) outwards, (3) inwards, (4) or forwards, (5) displacement of the ulna alone, (6) displacement of the radius alone, (7) displace- ment of both bones in different directions. 1. Dislocation of the laclius and nBna hachwaids. Causation and morbid anatomy.—This accident is commonly caused by falls upon the palm of the outstretched hand. It is frequent in early life, and this is probably due to the comparatively small size of the cartilaginous coronoid process, which is an outgrowth from tlie shaft of the ulna. The weakness of the anterior and posterior ligaments, the absence of muscular aid, and the want of mutual support between the bones of the fore-arm and humerus, in the flexed or extended position, are all reasons for the frequency of anterioi'- posterior displacements (Fig. 391). Pathology.—The anterior ligament is completely torn, and the lateral ligaments generally lacerated. The biceps tendon is tense, the brachialis anticus excessively tense or torn. The triceps tendon,