742 INJURIES OF BONES. but no certain cases of separation seem to have been recorded after 21, at which age all important epiphyses have usually united. _ As the violence necessary to separate an epiphysis is con- siderable, and as young children are more carefully looked after than older ones, these accidents are commoner after than before the age of 10, being most frequent between 16 and 17 (Bruns); but in one case compound separation of the lower tibial epiphysis was produced iir a five months’ foetus by the mother’s falling from a height on to the abdomen; and there is a considerable group of cases, chiefly affecting the upper epiphysis of the Immerus, due to manipulations during delivery. Seat. As to the frequency with which difierent epiphyses are affected, the best criterion is probably afforded by the statements of the number of cases which have come under the notice of Mr. J. Hutcliinson, junr., at the London Hospital. Mr. Hutchinson durino' some years saw 17 cases of separation of the lower radial epiphysis, U or 15 of the lower humeral, 13 of the upper humeral, and 10 of the lower femoral. All are agreed that these are the epiphyses most commonly separated ; but as to the exact order of frequency, authors, basing their statements on collections of recorded cases, differ. Thus Mr. Hutchinson’s collection of over 350 cases gives the following results:—Lower femoral epiphysis, 75; upper humeral, 66 • lower radial, 54; lower humeral, 52; internal epicondyle, 38; lower tibial, 27 ; upper femoral, 26 (?); great trochanter, 11; upper tibial, 10 ; tibial tubercle alone, 6 ; lower ulnar, 6; upper fibular, 4; clavicular, 3; upper radial, upper ulnar, and lower fibular, 2 each; small trochanter, 1. . , . i ^ Condition of tlie parts.—The force required completely to detach an epiphysis is considerable, though no doubt slighter violence often produces incomplete detachment or separation without displace- ment—the real nature of the injury being missed. The periosteum is the main obstacle to separation, the force required to tear off epiphysis after careful division of the periosteum being about one-httli "of that required when this membrane is intact. The periosteum of a growing bone is specially thick near, and has a close attachment tor an epiphysis. When the latter is detached from the shaft, the periosteum may be merely loosened round the latter; but if the epiphysis be much displaced, the end of the shaft tears a hole for itself in the periosteal tube on the side towards which it is moving, and, after this, the epiphysis carries tlie periosteum with it stripping it off the shaft (Figs. 213 and 268). This extensive denuLtion is peculiar to the injury, and is due to the toughness o the periosteum and the looseness of its attachment to the shaft Still more important is the exact plane in which the separation takes place. The main part of the epiphysial disc almost always adheres to the epiphysis. Bruns collected 61 cases in ments were made on this point. In 5, all occurring m i years, the cleft traversed the disc about midway betu een tke shaft and the epiphysis, the surface of each being smooth and caitiln^e