DISEASES OF BONES. 876 layer of the periosteum than in the case of the diffuse form of pei’iostitis. The cavity may heal as soon as the pus is evacuated, or a small portion of the compact tissue of the bone may die and be removed by exfoliation. Symptoms.—The patient complains of pain, which is worse at night than during the day ; and on examination of the painful part, an acutely tender swelling is found over one of the more superficial bones, such as the tibia. It will be fixed to one aspect of the bone, which will be free from any general enlargement, except at this spot. The temperature may be raised, but not to any great extent, and the general constitutional disturbance is of a mild type. Treatment.—If syphilis be the cause, iodide of potassium will probably give immediate relief. In other cases rest in the recum- bent position is the first and most essential point in the treatment of the inflammation. Hot fomentations should be applied, and fre- quently changed. Leeches are undoubtedly of service, but are objectionable if an incision has subsequently to be made, for they are liable to produce wound infection. A spare diet and a brisk purge complete the treatment for the early stage in a healthy person. If the swelling steadily increases and the pain continues, an aseptic incision should be made down to the bone before sup- puration has taken place. Careful aseptic or antiseptic dressing should then be employed, to lessen the risk of a subsequent necrosis. If typhoid fever or any other exhausting illness be the cause of the trouble, a generous diet, stimulants, and tonics will be required, provided, of course, the original fever has passed away. 2. Acute diffuse (infective) periostitis, or acute necrosis.— The latter name is more generally used, as necrosis invariably follows, and there is, as a rule, osteomyelitis as well as periostitis. This is a most dangerous disease, and requires prompt and energetic treatment if limb and life are to be saved. Pathological anatomy.—The long bones of the extremities are more frequently affected than any other parts of the skeleton, whilst the flat bones are very rarely attacked. It is also far more common in the lower than in the upper extremity. Commencing at the epiphysial line at either end of a long bone, such as the tibia, by an inflammatory effusion beneath the periosteum, it rapidly tei- minates in suppuration. The pus thus formed spreads far and wide between the periosteum and the bone, and unless a timely incision be made, may stretch from one epiphysis to the other, and completely encircle the circumference of the bone. Coincidentally with this formation of pus beneath the periosteum, an extensive suppurative osteomyelitis may take place, the inflamma- tion within and without the bone being directly continuous at the epiphysial line. The process thus begun stops at the next epiphysis, but it will result, if the suppuration be as extensive as described above in the total necrosis of the shaft. Intermediate stages between this and the mere exfoliation of a portion of the cortex need not now be described, as the subject will be again considered under iSecrosis