421 INHERITED SYPHILIS. infant with impunity. Colles, of Dublin (who, in 1837, first called attention to this immunity of the mother), wrote “ I have never seen or heard of a single instance in which a syphilitic infant (although its mouth be ulcerated) suckled by its own mother had produced ulceration of her breast; whereas, very few instances have occurred where a syphilitic infant had not infected a strange or hired wet- nurse who had been previously in good health.” The supposed exceptions to “ Colles’s law” are so few and so dubious that an absolute rule of i)ractice may be laid down that a syphilitic infant should be reared at its mother’s breast, and that no danger to the mother is to be feared. The explanation probably lies in the fact that through the placental circulation the mother is really infected, it may be, with a very mild type of syphilis ; for a considerable number of these cases do show ultimately some symptoms—such as bone-])ains or nodes. In those who remain healthy throughout we can only assume that an immunity has been conferred without obvious infection. Supposing that there are strong reasons against the mother suckling her syphilitic infant, the latter should then be brought up by hand, and on no account should a wet-nurse be employed. The most disastrous results have followed the neglect of this precaution, as syphilitic children suffer so often from stomatitis or mucous patches of the mouth, that contagion through suckling may occur with the greatest ease. Syphilitic disease of the placenta is a well-established and frequent occuiTence, and may lead to abortion, to death of the foetus in utero, or to premature birth. In this way congenital syphilis is responsible for an enormous mortality, as exemplified by the following statistics :— Out of 330 pregnancies (one or both parents showing signs of recent syphilis) 191, or 58 per cent., resulted in abortion, still-birth, or death of the child within six months. Examination of these cases generally reveals extensive disease of the viscera, bones, etc. Diffuse infiltra- tion of the liver, lungs, or spleen with small cells, and the formation of lowly organised fibrous tissue, which may go on to produce cirrhosis of the organ, are the chief lesions met with. In foetuses born dead of syphilitic parents, the liver and spleen are often enlarged and almost diffluent. In the long bones the epiphyses may be detached by inflam- mation about the epiphysial discs, or there may be marked signs of periostitis in these bones or those of the skull-vault. A bullous eruption is occasionally present on the skin ; but, as a rule, the latter is only affected if the child lives, and after an interval of from one to three months from birth. It seems that some infants escape any symptoms during the first year, and yet in after-life develop inter- stitial keratitis or other undoubted evidence of inherited s}'philis, though in most of these cases probably the early lesions have been overloolced. At any rate, it is an important rule that the syphilitic child, during the first few months, nearly always shows signs of the taint, the most common being the following :— 1. I^i'iiptions on the shin.—A roseolar or a papular ernption (especially on the buttock, genitals, and lower limbs), sometimes an