MILITARY SURGERY. 242 in a case occurring in the Afghan War, where the bullet remained without symptoms in the upper maxilla; or suppuration and necrosis may occur, or an acute osteomyelitis may carry off the patient. Lastly, the bone may be (/) jismred. Longmore here describes “ the indirect fissured fracture,” where the fissure occurs at some distance from the point struck, an interval of sound bone existing between the seat of known fracture and this indirect fissure. ° Complete fractures are either transverse or oblique, and accom- panied or not by splinters. In the latter case the bullet has struck the bone when spent, and may be found lying against the bone, or may have fallen out. Fractures with splinters are much more common. The main characteristics of tliese bullet fractures are shown to lie in the greater comminution of bone, the more numerous splinters, and the greater loss of bone substance. With regard to the short bones, with which may be included the spongy ends of the long bones, we find the cases divided into two main classes, according as the neighbouring joint is opened or not. Where the joint is not opened, the bone may be (1) simply contused, the bullet striking it with feeble velocity. This is less likely to happen with the modern bullet. Accompanying it is efiusion of blood either subperiosteal or into the cancellous tissue. Healing occurs after absorption of this blood, or after a subsequent osteitis. (2) Furrowed wounds may occur in all degrees, suppuration being especially likely to complicate the case. (3) Penetrating wounds. The romid bullet, with its velocity expended, frequently caused this form of injury, the bullet being partly or wholly embedded, numerous fissures extending up to the articular cartilage. ‘ The bone may be (4) perforated. This commonly occurs with the conoidal bullet. The aperture of entrance is depressed and surrounded by fissures, which also extend from the sides of the channel; the orifice may be embedded in splinters. (5) Lastly, osseous eminences may be broken off, as in the case of the great trochanter. Lesions involving the opening of the joint are far more serious, from the danger of subsequent purulent arthritis. The ends of the bones entering into the formation of the joint may be shattered into fragments, the synovial cavity filled with blood, or in a less severe case fissures may extend into the joint from the point struck. If strict antiseptic healing can be ensured, a useful joint may result. Formerly the usual termination was in suppurative arthritis, the joint becoming disorganised, and death resulting from pyaemia. Between these favourable and unfavourable terminations, healing occurs with various degrees of ankylosis, or after long months associated with exfoliation of bone. In contrasting the effects of bullet injury on the diaphysis and epiphysis, we find, as a rule, the nearer the latter the bone is struck the less is the shattering effect. Lastly, as regards the flat bones. Here the more brittle the bone the greater is the injury, whilst the greater the velocity and the