728 INJUBIJUS OF BONES. thigli, all from slight violence; the last preceded by severe pain in the limb. Her brother, before he was thirteen, had broken one femur nine times, the other twice, his arm once, and he is said to have “ dislocated his hip ” once. {See also page 898.) (3) Inflammation of hone, leading to necrosis, abscess, or caries, may so weaken it as to lead to fracture from slight violence. Necrosis is the commonest of these predisponents. Almost all the patients are young—under 21—and give a history of acute infective osteomyelitis and periostitis, ending in the formation of a sequestrum, which, whatever its length, embraces the whole, or nearly the whole circumference of the shaft. The femur is in these cases by far the commonest seat of fracture, which usually occurs during the second month, when the connection between the living and dead bone is eaten through. If now the sheath, together with any living portion of the shaft which may remain bridging across the gap, is not strong enough to support the weight of the limb, a frac- ture may occur, even whilst the limb is supported by a splint; and is much more likely during a dressing, a passive movement (Fig. 201), or a sequestrotomy. Fracture of a fixed total seques- trum is very rare; as also is fracture of the sheath, so long as the sequestrum lies within it. But after the removal of the sequestrum, bending and fracture of imperfect sheaths are more common. Osteomyelitis ending in abscess without the formation of any, or any considerable sequestrum, rarely leads to a spontaneous fracture. The femur has most often been the seat of the injury owing to an abscess in the shaft, close to, but not involving the epiphysial line. Tubercular caries rarely leads to fracture of the shafts of long bones, into which it seldom penetrates deeply; but Billroth saw the tibia thus eaten i.'i.r 201 —A loiigitiulinal Section of tlie lower '’End of a Boy's Feitmr. He was admitted for necrosis of the femur and suppuration of the knee joint, and the tibia appeared to be dislocated backwards ; but after amputa- tion it was found that the femur had been broken, probably by passive movement about 1 in. above the epiphysial line, and that the fragments had been united with angular deformity forwards. A considerable se- ciuestrum of the popliteal surlace, still ad- herent, is shown in section, its lower end Ivino’ in a cavity in the lower fragment. Tlie'bone is excessively porous, and deposit of new bone is wide-spread. (University College Mnseiiiii, No. 277.) through. The ribs, the verte- bral bodies, and the odontoid process suffer more commonly. Syphilitic caries, the result of gummatous periostitis and osteomyelitis, is another cause of spontaneous fracture, which is, however, very rare in pro- portion to the w'ide distribution of syphilis. The bones of the