INFLAMMATION. 56 certaiuly is not due to any action of the irritant on the blood contained in the vessels, because stasis does not necessarily occur immediately after the lesion, and the blood, which was acted on by the irritant, has passed through the vessels of tlie part long before the occurrence of the stasis. Besides, substances such as chloroform, which interfere with the coagulation of the blood, nevertheless produce stasis when applied to the surface of the tissues. Further, it will be seen, on watching the inflamed area, that the corpuscles flow freely in the vessels up to the focus of the inflammation, and it is only when they arrive at that part that they acquire this tendency to stick to each other and to the walls ot the vessels ; and further, if one watches the vessels leading from flie in- flamed area, it will be seen that as the corpuscles escape from that part they lose their adhesive tendency, and flow on perfectly freely in the circulating blood. Hence the cause which leads to the stasis is something which is permanently present in the part and this stasis has been looked on by Sir Joseph Lister as another mani- festation of the paralysis of the functions of the vessel wa ; that is to say, blood when in contact with the walls of healt ly vessels does not coagulate, either because the vessel wall has the power of actively preventing coagulation, or because it is absolutely neutral in the matter ’as compared with dead material, whereas m inflammation the walls of the blood-vessels being in a state ot suspended function coagulation tends to take place within them. ^ It matters not which of these explanations is the correct one , the fact remains that when injured the vessel wall loses nonnal characteristics, and comes to resemble dead material m so th the blood tends to coagulate when it comes m contact . this loss of its function being due to the direct action of tlm irritant on the vessel wall, and not merely to the dilatation of the blood-vessels. As we can readily see, there is no ^^endmicy to stasis in those blood-vessels which ^ of the inflammation in which the cause of the dilata.1011 is not c direct paralysis of the vessel wall, but a reflex phenomenon. ■ the otlier hand, the stasis and the dilatation in the ^ inflammation are probably due to the same action on the vessel wall, this action not lesulting, stance at any rate, in the death of the tissues, but simply in a futjension motion, whioh is recoverable again .£ the n-ntant do not act too long or too severely. _ . lation of the blood, another set of changes are also taking place which have reference to the contents of the vessels, n&me\y, ^eita l:ir. tl.tetitially the white, and certain elements contamed