SUPPURATION. 94 disturbance till it is opened. These abscesses may originate in the soft parts ; but perhaps most of them originate as the result of tuberculous disease in glands, joints, or bones (Fig. 17). The chronic abscess is, in fact, a tuberculous tumour with a softened centre, and when it begins—for example, in the subcutaneous tissues —it appears in the first instance as a hard nodule, which consists of tubercles with some inflammatory thickening around. As this nodule enlarges, the older tubercles in the centre undergo caseation and break down, and lead to the formation of a fluid (the so-called pus), which is sur- rounded by a wall containing numerous tubercles (Fig. 18). The abscess so formed will, in most cases, gradually extend, sometimes, however, taking several months before reaching any large size. The tuberculous new growth steadily invading the surrounding tis- sues and breaking down at the centre, the abscess by-and-by reaches the skin, which becomes thin, and ultimately gives way, and the contents are evacuated. Symptoms of chronic abscess. —So long as the abscess is unopened it seldom gives rise to any noticeable constitutional symptoms beyond, pos- sibly, slight elevation of temperature, but after an opening forms, septic organisms enter j and where the cavity is large, as in the case of psoas ab- scess, it is not uncommon for more or less violent suppuration, -with all its local and constitutional symptoms, to ensue. In some cases, indeed, the im- mediate effect of opening a psoas abscess without any precautions a<^ainst the admission of micro-organisms is violent febrile disturbance, quickly followed by a condition of collapse, and the death of the patient within two or three days. In this case the cause of the trouble is septic intoxication, from rapid decomposition of the contents of the abscess, as the result of the growth in them of saprophytic organisms (page 40). Most usually, however, the effect of sepsis in a large chronic abscess is, as I have just said, the occur- rence of suppuration and acute local and general inflammatory dis- turbance. This may be followed by acute septicsemia or pysemia (Art VIII-), but most commonly the acuteness of the symptoms Lbsides, and a profusely suppurating sinus is left. This suppura- tion from the sinus goes on indeflnitely, and very often, it the exit of pus be imperfect, fresh accumulations form, with recurrence Fig. 17.—Lumhar Abscess in connec- tion with Spinal Disease.