377 SYMPTOMS. but this feature is by no means constant. If not suffering from the effects of h£emorrhage, they may appear to be in robust health. The actual cause of the disease is entirely unknown and is merely a matter of speculation. Its pathological anatomy is no more precise. In many fatal cases of hemophilia there has been no evidence of a primary disease and no abnormality has been detected in the vascular system. In other instances the heart, and especially the left ventricle, have been found hypertrophied, and the arteries to be abnormally thin, the atrophy involving especially the intima. No peculiarity has been detected in the blood. Symptoms.—The haemorrhages are usually due to injury. Fatal bleeding has followed scratches with pins, the removal of teeth, leech bites, the rupture of the hymen, circumcision, and the most trifling wounds, as well as lesions of greater magnitude. It is remarkable that serious bleeding very rarely follows the wounds made in vaccination. Continuous and even quite slight pressure may cause very extensive subcutaneous haemorrhages. Some of these extravasations may attain great size. Some may occur spontaneously and are then most often met with on the scalp or about the genitals. Spontaneous haemorrhage is usually from a mucous surface, most commonly from the nose, and then in order of frequency from the gums, the alimentary canal, and the genito-urinary passages. Fatal htematuria is exceedingly rare. Haemorrhage is rare from serous surfaces, although bleeding into joints is not at all uncommon. Traumatic bleeding increases the tendency to spontaneous bleeding. If the bleeding part can be examined the blood will be found to ooze from numerous points, and not spout from one or two v^essels. The blood poured out presents no peculiarity of any kind. The haemorrhage is never furious, but it may continue for many days and even for weeks. Bleeders will bear great losses of blood remarkably well and will recover very rapidly when the haemorrhage has ceased. The symptoms differ in no way from the ordinary phenomena of prolonged bleeding as observed in the otherwise healthy. The bleeding is nearly always capillary. The quantity lost may be enormous and the resulting anaemia is marked and of long duration. The tendency to bleed is more pronounced at some periods than at others, so that at certain times wounds in bleeders may be attended with only the normal amount of haemorrhage. The precise nature of these periods is quite unknown. Some patients exhibit every kind of bleeding, spontaneous irnd traumatic, superficial and intei’stitial. These are mostly men. Women seldom exhibit this excessive form of the diseaise. Other patients are subject only to haemorrhages from mucous surfaces. A third series appear to be only liable to spontaneous ecchymoses. The affection usually shows itself at the beginning of the first