C52 ANEURYSM. open and the artery closed by very careful and firm plugging, or electrolysis may be employed. Aneurysm of the axillary artery.—Aneurysm may arise from any part of the axillary artery; it is more common in men than women, and on the right than the left side. Traumatic aneurysm from stabs and wounds, or from injury attending dislocation of the shoulder and its reduction, is not infrequent. Injury also plays an important part in the production of spontaneous axillary aneurysm, owing to the very free movement of the arm at the shoulder joint, and the frequency of injuries to the shoulder. Symptoms.—Owing to the laxity of the surrounding tissues, an axillary aneurysm grows rapidly and may attain a large size. Most often it projects forwards between the clavicle and the pectoralis major muscle; it may grow up under the clavicle into the clavicular triangle; the strong axillary aponeurosis retards its downward progress. The tumour, if large, interferes with the free movement of the arm, especially with abduction; the head may be held inclined to the same side and the outer end of the clavicle may be pushed up. By pi’essure upon the axillary vein it causes blueness and oedema of the hand, fore-arm, and arm, and afterwards of the chest-wall; there is often severe lancinating pain down the inner side of the arm to the elbow, and weakness, numbness, or even paralysis may result from the pressure on the brachial plexus. The aneurysm may burst into the shoulder joint or erode the humerus, or extend in between the ribs and displace the lung. Brom the obstruction of the artery, the brachial or radial pulse may be lost. Owing to the "reat size of the sac and the looseness of its surroundings, it rs peculiarly liable to inflammation; when the venous obstruction is very great, gangrene may ensue. Varicose aneurysm has been met with in the axiila, but only rarely. Treatment.—Cases of spontaneous cure are extremely rare. The surgeon should first of all treat the disease by digital com- pression of the subclavian artery just above the clavicle, where it lies upon the first rib; and, if necessary, the patient may be F^ced under an amesthetic while continuous pressure is maintained. At the same time, gentle direct compression of the sac to compensate tor the absence of the tense tissue which usually surrounds an aneurj'sm may be of service. Where the aneurysm has so spread up into t le neck or has so raised the clavicle that digital compression of the subclavian artery is impracticable, Esmarch’s bandage may _ le applied to the limb up to the sac for one to two hours, with a vie^« to leading to coagulation of the blood. Should these means fail, the subclavian artery should be tied in the third part of its corns , or in the second part if the vessel is encroached upon by the tunmui, or is found very diseased. This operation may be difficult by the proximity of the sac or the clavicle. Secondary luemorrhage may occur after opmat > and should be treated by a carefully-applied_ compress , S^^'b^ene i rare owing to the freedom of the anastomotic circulation. But t