DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 570 Symptovis.—When a superficial vein is attacked, it is felt as a solid cord with knots opposite the valves; the vein is tender, and its outline is quickly lost by inflammatory swelling around it, the skin over it becomes reddened, and later, fluctuation and all the signs of acute abscess or abscesses are recognised. The first onset is accompanied with a sense of stiffness in the part, and this inciease.s to smarting and throbbing pain. The disease may be limited in area, or it may rajiidly creep along the vein. The parts drained by the vein may be cedematous. With these local symptoms there is fever, often of high grade with rapid soft pulse, diy tongue, fetid diarrhoea, and low delirium j or a succession of rigors may mark the development of pyaemia. In some cases the septic poisoning is slight, and the fever is less intense, and subsides when the abscess bursts or is opened. When attacking a small deep vein, the only signs of the disease may be those of the septicaemia or pyaemia,, to which it gives rise. Abscesses occurring in the course of septic^ inflammations are in many cases the result of suppurative phlebitis, and some of the secondary abscesses of pvsemia are of this nature. Prognosis.—The prognosis of this disease is very grave. It varies to some extent with the position of the vein attacked, and with the virulence of the infection and the power of resistance in the patient’s tissues. It largely depends upon the practicability of thorough removal or destruction of the infective material before it has infected the mass of the blood. Treatment.—Hie prevention of this disease by perfect asepsis is one of the great advances of modern surgery. As soon as the disease is recognised, the inflamed vein should be freely laid open, all the infected thrombus removed, the whole cavity thoroughly cleansed, as by swabbing it well with pure carbolic acid, and the vein stufled with an antiseptic gauze. Abscesses occurring in the course of the disease should be opened early, and the cavities thoroughly cleansed. To prevent blood-poisoning the vein has been divided and tied on the cardiac side of the clot. In some cases amputation may be the only means of preventing or arresting general infection. The constitutional treatment is that of septicremia. (III. VARICOSE VEINS. A permanent pathological dilatation of a vein is called a varix, and a vein so affected is said to be varicose, this name being given to the disease because of the tortuosity of such veins. A varicose vein must be distinguished from a merely engorged vein, and the difler- ence is twofold, for the vein is enlarged beyond any mere physiological distension, and the enlargement is permanent. It is, in fact, an overgrown vein. Patholog’y,—As to situation, the disease is most common in the veins of the lower extremity, but it is also frequently met with in the spermatic cord (varicocele), in the labia, and around the anus