OPERATIONS ON NERVES. 697 along the anterior border of the ramua of tlie lower jaw, extending from the last upper molar to the corresponding tooth in the upper jaw. After the division of the raucous raenibrane, the internal pteiygoid must be separated from the jaw with the hnger, and the sharp spike of bone which marks the orifice of the inferior dental canal must be felt. An aneurysm needle is then passed forwards from the inner aspect of the jaw-bone, and the nerve is hooked up on this and drawn forwai’ds. In dividing the nerve, care must be taken to avoid the inferior dental artery, the injury of which in this opera- tion has caused serious hemorrhage. The facial nerve.—The facial nerve may be exposed at the point of emergence from the stylo-mastoid foramen by an incision commenced behind the ear at the level of the external auditory meatus, and carried downwards and forwards to about the level of the angle of the jaw. After dividing the skin and fascia the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid is exposed and retracted, and the posterior belly of the digastric muscle is then defined and similarly dealt with. A blunt hook or aneurysm needle should then be slipped down, so as to pick up the nerve, and the latter should then be separated from tlie tissues around it by the use of a probe-pointed director. The parotid gland must be drawn forwards before any attempt is made to pick up the nerve. The operation is a difficult one, especially in thick-necked and muscular subjects. The spinal accessory nerve.—This may be exposed either before it enters the sterno-mastoid muscle or else at its point of emer- gence therefrom. To reach it in the former situation an incision is made parallel to the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and the latter is strongly retracted. The centre of this incision should be opposite the hyoid bone, and at this level the nerve should be sought for, crossing the carotids and the internal jugular vein, and entering the muscle on its under surface. At the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid the nerve is reached by an incision carried parallel with this margin, and having its centre opposite the middle of the line drawn from the clavicle to the mastoid process. Care must be taken not to mistake the superficial cervical nerve for the spinal acce.ssory—the former curves forwards round the sterno-mastoid, the latter mns obliquely backwards. The spinal accessory nerve is not infrequently wounded in operations for the removal of cervical glands. I\ewes of the ti]»|)er extremities. The brachial plexus.— This may be exposed in the neck by an operation very similar’ to that for ligature of the subclavian artery, and in the axilla by one ^ similar to that for ligature of the axillary in the tliird part of its course. The median nerve.—In the upper arm this nerve may be exposed by an incision similar to that for ligature of the bi’achial artery, and m the fore-ai-m may be reached by an incision above the wi'ist on the outer side of the tendon of the jialmaris longus. The ulnar nerve.—Behind the internal condyle the ulnar nerve