INJURIES OF BONES. 776 be made to render the wound dry. Unless most thoroughly washed, fingers should not be introduced into the wound, for they are great collectors of pyogenic organisms. If water can be boiled, and clothing can be sterilised by moist, or even by dry heat, the cleansing of the wound and the preparation of a clean dry dressing becomes simpler. It is certain that no thought or care expended upon the first treatment of a wound can be regai'ded as excessive. Deliberate treatment.—In the deliberate treatment of com- pound fractures, the first question to decide is whether the case is one for primary amputation, for conservative treatment, or simply for care until death arrives. Tlie question of auipiitatioii Experience affords the only ground for forming an opinion as to whether a patient will or will not bear an amputation; and even the most experienced are often wrong. When in doubt, the treatment is that of shock, coupled with measures to prevent loss of blood and infec- tion of any tissues which it is desired to save. If the patient rallies, amputation is done aseptically, infusion of saline solution being generally indicated. Statistics show that, in spite of “ last chances ” being given freely, primary amputation has become more and more successful. For example, Erichsen, some years ago, stated that he would never again, in an adult, amputate at tlie hip for injury. Of late years many successful cases have been reported. The great cause of death in these cases is shock. When life is not threatened by shock, the question is, “ Can the patient recover with a useful limb?” No doubt will exist when a limb, at or below a certain point, is crushed so that circulation in the distal part is impossible. A similar difficulty may arise from rupture of the main artery, a difficulty greatly increased by sub- cutaneous bleeding, compressing all the tissues through which collateral supply might be established, or by simultaneous injury of the main vein. In each case, gangrene is more probable in the lower than in the upper limb. The surgeon must consider each case on its merits, and decide whether or no something must be done; if he think that by incision and ligature of the wounded vessel, with removal of the main mass of extravasation, he can reduce the conditions to something approaching those prevailing after simple ligature of the same vessel, he will carry out this operation, but in such a way that amputation, should it become necessary, may be conveniently performed. But if the patient be old or feeble, the artei’ies I'igid, the heai’t unsound, the extravasation when seen widespread, or the probability of deep-seated infection great, primary amputation at the seat of fracture will be the wisest course. Extensive comminu- tion of a bone and fissures extending into joints necessitate amputation only when sepsis is added; in old days it was a frequent indication—especially in gunshot injuries,—experience showing that primary amputation gave the best results j but antiseptics, even in warfare, have changed this. Under these conditions careful disin- fection will be given a trial. Great loss of soft parts, muscle and