857 FRAOTURE OF THE PATELLA. Hodgen, allowing the foot to drop. Treve.s speaks highly of this practice, but he uses the long splint after the tenotomy with heavy extension from it—sometimes as much as 40 lbs. Fractures of the condyles and other fractures within the knee are best treated with a Thomas’s knee-splint. Fracture of the patella. — Fractures of the patella form 1-4 per cent, of all fractures. They are very rare under twenty, commonest up to fifty, but occur even in old age. They are far more frequent in men than in women (13 to 1). These fr’actures may be due to direct violence, when the bone may be comminuted, or “starred” (Fig. 305), or split longitudinally down the middle (rare), or a bit may be chipped from a lateral border (Fig. 306); the skin may be damaged even to laceration by the fall or blow, ren- dering the injury compound. Far more often they are caused by muscular action, bending and finally cracking the bone across the convex femoral condyles. When a person misses a step, or stumbles and makes a strong efibrt to pull himself up, the knee being already bent in the fall, the patella rests on the condyles by a comparatively narrow transverse surface; and the piece above this surface is a longer or shorter lever upon wliich the quadriceps acts. The resulting fracture is generally transverse, but may be markedly oblique. The fragments vary much in size, being sometimes equal, again very unequal; now the upper, now the lower is the smaller. In cases from direct violence the surrounding fibrous tissue (periosteum, fascia, and aponeuroses of the vasti muscles) are not much torn, the fragments do not separate much, and union by bone, though not very strong, is usual (Fig. 305). But muscular action tears the fibrous coverings of the bone, and the Fig. 305. Fig. 300. Fig. 305.—A Patella repaii ed after a “ starred ’’ Frac- ture which broke it into tour pieces; all have united by bone after slight displacement, but union is weak everywhere, and at one spot, absent (Uni- versity College Museum, No. 290.) Fig. 300.—A Patella from the outer edge of which a Fragment has been broken by a longitudinal Cleft. Bony union has occurred. (University College Museum, No. 291.)