121 TREATMENT. as no greasy application is employed, which would destroy the india- rubber, there is really no objection to proper and efficient dressing of the sore beneath the bandage. In applying the Martin’s bandage, it should be put on before the patient gets out of bed, and it should be placed on the limb quite loosely and smoothly, the bandage being simply unrolled around the limb, reverses, of course, being made wherever necessary. If the bandage be put on tightly, the accumu- lative action of the turns leads to the upper part becoming too tight when the patient has walked about for a short time. Unna has introduced, in preference to the Martin’s bandage, an arrangement by which the ordinary bandages are stiffened, so that they maintain their position and keep up the support. In the first place he thoroughly disinfects the skin, washing it with soap and water, and subsequently with antiseptic lotions, and then powders it and the sore with iodoform. He then takes a double-headed bandage and applies it to the limb, commencing from the middle of the sore. This bandage is porous, and over it he rubs a mixture of gelatine and glycerine—10 parts of gelatine, 40 parts of water, 40 parts of glycerine—with some oxide of zinc. This is melted and rubbed into the bandage, and before it is set another bandage is dipped in hot water and applied. The dressing solidifies, and forms a firm support to the leg ; while it does not have the weight of plaster of Paris, and the pressure is more evenly distributed than with Martin’s bandage. This dressing is renewed, according to the amount of discharge, usually at first every other day, but as the discharge diminishes, at less frequent intervals. It is readily removed by putting the patient’s leg in a pail of warm water, which melts the gelatine, and allows one to unwind the bandage quite easily. When an ulcer has healed, whether by skin grafting or naturally, it is well in all cases to support the part for some time with a light bandage, and, best of all, with Unna’s bandage. In the case of 'paralytic ulcers stimulant applications should be used, in addition to the ordinary methods of treatment, more espe- cially the application of spirits of wine to the parts around. As a dressing, balsam of Peru sometimes acts very well. In dealing with perforating ulcer of the foot very radical mea- sures are necessary in order to obtain healing. One may place such a sore at rest, and in an elevated position, for a long period of time without the slightest attempt at healing taking place, because, as I have already pointed out, the epithelium has spread down the sides of the funnel. Hence, in order to obtain healing, it is necessary to cut away the edges and sides of the ulcer, and this must be done very freely. The bottom of the ulcer should then be scraped, and tiie whole cavity stuffed with cyanide gauze, sprinkled with iodo- form, the patient, of course, being kept in bed. In the case of the pressure ulcer, also, it is necessary to remove the callosity on each side of the ulcer. The phagedcBnic ulcer requires energetic destruction of the gan- grenous tissue, and this is best carried out by means of the actual