lO-iO DISEASES OF JOINTS. The long list, then, given above may now be reduced to (1) the si/novitis of sej)tic infection^ (2) o/" syphilis, (3) of tubercle, and (4) of gout. Another point strikes the observer at once in looking over the above list of synovial diseases, namely, that they naturally arrange themselves into three groups, according to the processes which underlie the grosser changes present. One group, including the above acute and subacute septic affections, is generally characterised by the presence of active hyperemia, rapid effusion, and cell-proli- feration ; the next, made up of the tuberculous and syphilitic, by a more 2^assive hypersemia and more sluggish cell-proliferation; the last, hicluding the gouty and so-called chronic rheumatic inflammar tions, rather by degenerative changes, accompanied or followed by passive congestions of usually moderate intensity, and not marked primarily by either excessive effusion or cell-proliferation. The varieties of disease in each of these groups display a close parallelism in their natural history. Tor instance, it requires minute scrutiny to detect difierences between chronic pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane due to tubercle, and the analogous changes of structure in the synovial membrane brought about by syphilis. The same may be said of the other affections belonging to the acute and subacute pysemic class, while between the primary degenerative changes of gout and chronic rheumatic arthritis there often seems to be a close relation. _ . It is not intended to imply here that in chronic rheumatic arthritis the synovial membrane is often primarily affected. Trobably this is rare, the changes in the synovial membrane being in most c^es secondary to degenerative disease starting in the cartilages and liga- ments. This disease appears to hold an intermediate position be- tween gout, in which the cause of the lowered vitahty is the presence of a definite chemical compound in the tissues, and Charcots disease, in which, be the original cause what it may, the proximal cause appears to be a profound affection of the nervous centres manifesting itself in the osseous system by degenerative changes due to defective innervation. , These varieties of synovitis, due to causes operating through the blood, may now be considered. 1. Acute septic synovitis. Patliology—This form of synovitis, as already stated (page 1039), is met with in the course of many local and constitutional diseases, hitherto regarded as quite distinct. But it is almost certain that the poison which produces the joint trouble is analogous if not identical in all, and is due to the presence in t e blood of one or other of the well-known forms of staphylococci, which have actually been found in the joint effusions in such cases, it is easy to understand the mode of entrance of these into the system when we remember the foul suppurative surfaces present in different parts of the body in the diseases in question—in the urethra m "onorrhteal synovitis, in the throat and ear in scarlet fe\er, in the intestine in typhoid, in the uterus in puerperal fever, and so on.