1032 DISEASES OF JOINTS. among the structures which enter into tlie formation of all the articulations. (2) Their special clinical features as seen in particular joints, together with their diagnosis, symptoms, treatment, and prognosis as local affections. GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OF JOINT DISEASES. Classification.—The morbid changes found here are, in the vast majority of cases, but the expression of one or other form of local inflammation. But there are, besides, several diseased conditions due to general degenerative changes, either in the tissues of the joints themselves, or of more remote parts of the system, such as the nervous centres and vascular system. Finally, the tissues of joints are occasionally the seat of neofllasms in the usual acceptation of the term. Besides these morbid changes there are, of course, others the direct result of violence, such as dislocations, lacerations, gunshot wounds, and the like, but these are treated of in the article on Injuries of Joints, and will only be alluded to here so far as they give rise to the remote effects coming more naturally under the name of disease. We have then before us three great groups of joint diseases— (a) the inflammcUory; (b) the degenerative; (c) the neojAastic. But, though practically convenient for the present, such a classification will probably require modification in the future, at all events as regards the diseases included in each group. For it is open to question under which of these headings some of the commonest joint affections ought to be placed, which have hitherto had their definite positions assigned to them. For instance, tuber- culous disease has hitherto been placed among the inflammatory affections, but it might just as well be included among the neoplasms, to which it bears in many respects a very close resemblance, and there would be some practical advantages from such a nomenclature. And if it be proved, as appears likely to be the case before long, that what we now call new growths are masses of hyperplastic or heteroplastic tissue, produced under the irritation of living parasites, just as so-called tubercles are, and in the same way, the distinction between neoplasms and inflammatoiy products will be hard to draw. Adopting, howei’er, this classification for the present, we may proceed to consider the inflammatory affections of^ joints, first as they affect the synovial membrane, and then the ligaments, carti- lages, and bones. This anatomical arrangement is necessary, inasmuch as the various morbid processes behave, as has been already said, in a somewhat different manner in each of the different structures which enter into the formation of joints. Taking all the primary affections of joints as a whole, it may be