336 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. blood is either passed unmixed at the end of micturition, or is more abundant then if the urine is generally tinged. It may be passed in clots, containing large numbers of ova, pain beino' experienced during their expulsion; or when the blood origiiT- ates in the ureters, the passage of clots may simulate ordinary renal colic. The hsematuria may be intermittent, or the blood at times be so sparse as to be discoverable only by tests or microscopic examination. Pain due to subacute cystitis and frequent mictuii- tion, accompanied by a burning sensation, perhaps due to the passage of ova, are the signs which commonly bring natives to the surgeon, as they often think little of the hsematuria. When dependent on the passage of clots or calculi, it closely resembles that observed in ordinary cases of stone. Symptoms of pyelitis or surgical kidney may develop later. The urine is strongly acid, of high specific gravity, contains blood, albumen, crystals of uric acid or oxalate of lime, epithelial cells, tissue debris, and numerous ova in the early stages. Later, the acidity and high specific gravity are less marked and tissue debris is more abundant. Ova are frequently to be found when the patient considers himself quite free from the disease. General symptoms are slight until the loss of blood is sufficient to tell on the system, when extreme anaemia, or pyrexia, dependent on inflammatory changes, may be met with. It is, however, remark- able how little the majority of the patients sufier from the loss of blood. When the rectum is affected, dysenteric symptoms occur. Diag’nosis.—This is to be made by inquiries as to the district in which the disease was incurred, and by detection of the ova in the urine or faeces. It may be necessary repeatedly to examine the excretions for the ova, as they are often sparse in number. The drops of blood which follow the flow of urine should be examined separately, or, if this be impracticable, the deposit at the bottom of the vessel should be examined after the contents have stood for some time. Prognosis.—The disease has a tendency to wear itself out, if constant re-infection be not incurred, and is only immediately dan- gerous from the loss of blood. It may, however, continue for years, and the patient may suffer from secondary renal or vesical disease at a very late date. Death most commonly results from asthenia, the patient becoming worn out by his bladder trouble, occasionally aggravated by rectal tenesmus, or dysenteric diarrhcEa may some- times prove fatal. Treatment.—No specific treatment is known. The use of iron and arsenic is indicated to combat the anaemia, while the bladder symptoms and tendency to the formation of calculus are to be treated with the ordinary remedies for those conditions from other causes. V'iolent exercise must be forbidden, and complete rest enjoined during attacks of hoematuria. Liquid extract of male fern in doses of 20 to 25 minims thrice daily does temporary good by relieving the burning sensation attendant on micturition and the constant desire to pass water; moreover, during its exliibition, tlie