567 PHLEBITIS. attended with effusion of plastic lymph, and terminating in resolution or in obliteration of the lumen of the vessel.^ Causes. The causes of plastic phlebitis are in the first place injuries of'all kinds, and this variety is called traumatic phlebitis. The formation in a vein of a non-infective thrombus is a common cause of phlebitis—thrombophlebitis. Inflammation may extend to a vein from the tissues ai-ound it—phlebitis by extension. Certain other cases are due to gout—youty phlebitis / and othei cases in which no definite cause can be determined are spoken of as idio- pathic phlebitis. Heightened blood pressure in the veins produces a chronic inflammatory thickening of their walls, to wliich the name phlebo-sclerosis has been given. Pathology.—The coats of the vein are affected in various degrees. When the disease is lit up by the presence of a thrombus the change is mainly seen in the inner coat, which is the seat of active proliferation of the endothelial cells, many of which pass into the clot. The middle coat shows but little change • the outer coat is swelled, its vessels are enlarged, and the number of nuclei and cells in it is increased. In traumatic phlebitis, or phlebitis by extension, the swelling and softening of the outer coat are more marked, owing to a more abundant cell-infiltration ; the middle coat is also invaded by the “ plastic lymph,” and the proliferation of the endothelium is a marked feature. In all cases, a thi’ombus forms on the altered intima. Generally the vessel undergoes the same changes as occur in the permanent closure of a wounded artery (page 512), but in some cases the inflammation subsides, and the vein is restored to its former state. We have already mentioned that lateral wounds of veins are far less often followed by occlusion of the vessel than are similar injuries to arteries. In some cases this is due to the small extent of clot formed, but more often to the dilatation and coalescence of the spaces in the clot. (/Seepage 511.) Traumatic phlebitis is limited in extent to the injured part of the vein, and has no tendency to spread. Thrombo-phlebitis also corresponds in extent with the clot within the vessel. We have seen that thrombi grow, and may some- times extend far up a vein, until an active stream of blood is encoun- tered, and so it happens that while thrombo-phlebitis is usually limited in extent, in some cases it spreads for some distance along a vein. Gouty phlebitis is usually symmetrical, often subsides in one vein to light up in another, and has a tendency to recur and to attack the same vein more than once. A very chronic form of plastic phlebitis, which slowly spreads along a vein in the direction of its current, converting it into a hard impervious cord, is sometimes met with. Phlebitis may attack any vein, but it is most common in those of the lower limb, and particularly in the saphena vein. ^ Symptoms.—The symptoms are primarily those of thrombosis— a firm knotted cord is felt in the position of a vein, with oedema of the tissues drained by it. The inflamed vein is tender and ])ainful; it is swelled, with an indistinct outline, owing to the inflammatory exudation in its sheath, and if the vein is superficial the skin over it