TREATMENT OF DEFECTIVE UNION. 795 Here the choice lies between resection of the pseudarthrosis and the application of some apparatus to stiffen and support the damaged part. Remarkably good results may be obtained with the aid of an instrument maker. Thus assisted I have seen a man with fibrous union of a fracture about the middle of the femur doing duty as a carter on a farm; and in the Transactions of the Literary Society of Bombay for 1820 (vol. ii. p. 167) is recorded the case of an Arab with an ununited fracture of the right humerus who, provided with a silver tube which was clasped round the upper arm, pursued the calling of a pirate, boarded ships, and used a sword Avith much success. As, however, antiseptics have robbed the operation of resection of most of its dangers, it is certainly desirable to endeavour to obtain for the patient a sound limb. The operation is never easy, and may be most difficult. An incision is made of such length as freely to expose the fracture, the position and direction of which have been carefully determined by examination under the anaes- thetic. The wound is so placed as to reach the fragments with least injury to soft parts, and it is a great advantage when a skin-flap can be raised—with its base at right angles to or parallel to the long axis of the limb in different positions—and laid down at the end of the operation as a complete cover to the deep wound. By carrying the distal portion of the limb in a suitable direction, one of the fragments is caused to project in or from the Avound, any uniting flbrous tissue being divided or cut away, and any mass of intervening muscle, etc., being suitably dealt with. It must now be decided how the ends shall be freshened—what form will enable them to be most accurately fitted together. It is desirable to bring into contact considerable surfaces of raAv, bleeding bone—from Avhich all trace of fibrous tissue has been removed—and to raise and preserve all periosteum from such portions of the ends as may be cut away. The ends may be cut at right angles to the shaft; one may be given a wedge-form and the other be grooved to match; both may be freshened and left oblique; but if there be any tendency to shortening, it is wise to cut them in “ step-form,” i.e. to cut into each fragment at right angles to the axis for a sufficient depth, where the broken surface joins the normal shaft, and to remove the broken surface by another cut starting on the end of the frag- ment and joining this. The end of each fragment must be cut square so as to fit into the “ step” thus formed upon the other, and the fit must be accurate Avhen all deformity is corrected. Fresh, Avide, well-fitting surfaces of bone haAung been pre- pared, the ends are drilled at suitable spots Avith a long bradawl of suitable size, or with a dental engine, Avhich enables the Avork to be done more easily and Avith less disturbance. Stout silver wire is then passed through the holes, and Thomas’ holloAv needle, or a cannula large enough to take the end of the Avire, is often useful in draAving it through from the deep surface. Tavo stitches are generally enough; they are drawn tight Avhen both are