XVIII. HJ3M0PHILIA. By FEEDEEICK TEEVES, F.E.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, the London Hospital, Haemophilia, or tlie “bleeder disease,” is defined as a congenital and habitual haemorrhagic diathesis. The subjects of it are liable to severe and obstinate haemorrhages, which may occur spontaneously, or may follow injuries, often of the slightest kind. General phenomena.—The disease is noticed in the patient from the commencement of life; it may be said to exist so long as he exists, and does not appear (except in some rare and imperfectly understood instances) to be ever acquired. The malady is in nearly every case heredita/ry. Grandidiei speaks of it as “ the most hereditary of all hereditary diseases,” and the subjects of it will generally be found to belong to definite “ bleeder families.” It attacks the individual members of a family extensively, and it is estimated that there will be three bleeders to every family affected. Hsemophilia is nearly twelve times more common in males than in females. The disease assumes a much less typical form in women. The disease is transmitted in a remarkable way. It is handed down, not by the bleeders themselves, but in nearly every instance by the non-bleeder members of the family, and almost exclusively by the females. Thus, if there be six children in a bleeder family (three boys and three girls) the boys will be bleeders but the girls most probably wHl not be affected. If they aU marry and have children, the children of the bleeder males will most probably be non-bleeders, whereas the children of the females will almost certainly present the disease. _ ... ^ . Hsemophilia has a peculiar geographical distribution. It is common in Germany, and many cases have been recorded in Great Britain, in North America, in Norway and Sweden, and in Fi-ance. The disease does not appear to be met with in Italy, Greece, Turkey, Spain, or Portugal. It is said to be very common among the Jews. Bleeders, apart from their special diathesis, present no distmctive constitutional condition. There is nothing peculiar in their physique, their complexion, their pathological tendencies, or their general health. They frequently possess a very fine and transparent skin.