582 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. organised, obliterate tlie blood-spaces in which they occur ; in some instances repeated limited thrombosis occurs. In some instances of cavernous na3vus a blood cyst develops, owing to the shutting off of a blood-space and its subsequent distension; in other cases a pigmented warty growth has replaced a nsevus. A combination of cavernous ntevus with lipoma—ncevo-lipoma—is met Avith as a congenital tumour. A simple nisvus cannot be mistaken for any other affection. A cavernous ntevus, when, covered by healthy skin or mucous mem- brane, is easily recognised by its spongy feel, compressibility, distension under effort, purple colour, and the absence of pulsation. Treatment.—Ntevi undergoing natural cure, and superficial nsevi of wide extent, such as “ port wine stains,” should not be sub- jected to any treatment. Nmvi on parts of the body which are covered by clothing, and which are stationary, may be left for a time and Avatched; but even if they show no tendency to groAv, it is better to remoA’e or destroy them than to leave them to be a possible source of trouble hereafter. There are many Avays of dealing with nievi : they may be excised, strangled with a ligature, burnt with caustics, obliterated by inflammation, or the blood within them coagulated by electroly.sis, or the injection of coagulants. Each method has its advantages, and is to be chosen in particular circumstances, and it is a mis- take to regard any one treatment as universally adapted for a con- dition which presents such striking variations as nseAms does. The objects to be aimed at are, in the first place, complete cure, for if only a minute portion of the ntevus is unobliterated, the disease is apt to grow again, and often Avith considerable vigour; secondly, the removal or destruction of diseased parts only, all healthy struc- tures being preserved if possible; thirdly the minimum of scar, particularly on exposed parts of the body; and fourthly, rapidity, painlessness, and absence of suppuration. The methods commonly employed are as folloAvs :— (1) Excision.—The surgeon must be careful to cut out thensevus, and not cut into it, and each bleeding vessel must be seized in forceps, or tied at once, as hsemorrhage is Amry serious in infants, who are the usual subjects of this operation. Owing to the deep colour of the tumour, and the presence in cases of cavernous naevus of a thin capsule, the operation is not attended Avith any special difficulty. The edges of the Avound are carefully approximated Avith sutures, and primary healing with a linear scar is obtained. This treatment is rapid, practically painless, and by it it is easy to ensure the removal of the entire growth ; in a large proportion of cases it is wholly satisfactory, but it is unsuited to very superficial n£EAu, as it involves then a sacrifice of healthy tissue, and to deep uiBAi of important parts, such as the eyelid, cheek, and lip, the removal of which would cause serious deformity. (2) Ligature.—Almost any nsevus can be strangled by a ligature, and Avhen the sphacelus separates, the AVOund quickly heals, but