398 SYPHILIS. rise to the supposition of typhoid. As a rule, the increase of tem- perature is but slight, or wholly absent, and these exceptional cases are to be remembered chiefly from the errors of diagnosis and treatment that they may cause. General gland enlargement.—This important symptom is of very frequent, though not constant, occurrence. The lymphatic glands of the sub-occipital region, those along the sterno-mastoid muscle in both triangles of the neck, the epitrochlear glands in the arms, and the inguinal ones are most easily noticed to be swollen during the early secondary stage; but there is good reason for believing that the deep lymphatic glands in the abdomen, etc., are similarly affected. The enlargement is hardly ever painful, rarely of high degree, and may occur quite independently of any cutaneous eruption in the part supplying the glands concerned. Congestion and slight swelling of the liver and spleen are probably not very infrequent, and now and then a sharp attack of jaundice is met with during the secondary stage. If the gland enlargement be very marked, the anaemia or, at any rate, increase of the white corpuscles in the blood, will also be pronounced. It is probable that congestion of the bone marrow and periosteum accounts for the dull aching pain in the legs, head, etc., which has been mentioned as of frequent occurrence. Affections of the skin appendages.—Thinning of the hair ot the scalp is a notorious symptom of secondary syphilis, and may be met with in all degrees up to the production of temporary baldness. Usually, it only amounts to the hair coming away more freely than normal all over the head when combed, though sometimes the alopecia is patchy in distribution. As a rule, the hair grows again freely after a time, especially under good mercurial treatment. The eyebrows and eyelashes may occasionally be shed or thinned in a similar way to the hair of the scalp. The nails are less commonly aflfected; but in severe cases they are liable to become brittle, roughened irregularly at their free edo-es, or in some cases longitudinally striated. The whole nail may be shed through inflammation of the matrix, and occasionally syphilis produces a peri-onychia or troublesome ulceration around the nail-margin. In most cases, if the nails are affected at all, many of them, both on the hands and feet, show evidence of the disease, which is nearly always severe also as regards the skin-eruption and other secondary lesions. Secondary lesions of the mouth and throat.—These are almost as frequent and important as those of the skin, and from the pain or discomfort they produce, are perhaps even more likely to attract the patient’s attention. The occurrence of mucous patches on the lips, inner side of the cheeks, and the tongue has already been noticed (Fig. 81). Another very frequent symptom of syphilis is an ulcerated patch or fissure on the commissures of the lips, which encroaches on the skin surface, and from its position is often slow to heal. Superficial ulcers are also common on the tongue, espe- cially along its margin (though often on the dorsum), and similar