183 SYMPTOMS. shoulder, ankle, wrist, hip, and sterno-clavicular are those usually involved , the knee the most often, and then the others in the order "^h^climcaTphe^ of pyaemia.—The clinical history of acute pyiemia accords with the account given of its pathology. _ _ When the infective material which causes an acute pyaemia is introduced into a fresh wound an interval, which is in reality a period of incubation, elapses before the general symptoms be- gin. During this interval the shock of the injury dis- appears, reac- tion is esta- blished, and the bacteria multiply in the wound. The teinpe , 33 _Acute Suppurative Nephritis in Pysemia. Glomerular vessels reaction, now- micrococci, mth surrounding infiltration of leucocytes, ever, seldom (After Ziegler.) falls to normal, but maintains the rise which marks traumatic fever. At the same time the pulse and respiration are accelerated. After this interval the symptoms, which are pathognomonic of pysemia, may be expected to begin. A violent rigor, which shakes the bed, occurs, and whilst it is at its height the temperature rapidly increases, and may reach some unusual degree—say 106° to 107° F. The rigor is followed by profuse sweating, which makes the bedclothes wringing wet, and the temperature falls as rapidly as it rose, but seldom falls to normal. During the rigor the pulse and respiration are accelerated, and the patient is greatly distressed. In pysemia the rigors recur at irregular intervals. The irregular and rapid alterations in the temperature, with the accompanying rigors, are typical of pysemia, and help to distinguish it from ague, malaria, acute rheumatism, typhoid fever, and septicsemia. In the last there is usually a single rigor at the commencement, and it is not repeated. In pysemia a continuance of the rigors renders the prognosis hopeless. A single rigor soon after an operation has no particular import. It may merely be due to cold and exposure, or to the severity of the operation, and will not recur after reaction is established. Rigors, too, are comparatively common after operations