DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. loin (2) oblique fracture of a portion of the outer tuberosity of tlie til)ia, the fragment being drawn upwards and backwards, carrying tlie fibula with it. Symptoms.—The leg is partially flexed, and flexion and exten- sion are much impaired, while severe pain may be felt from pressure on the popliteal nerve. There is a depression over the normal site of articulation, and the head of the bone will be felt in its new position. The tendon of the biceps is excessively prominent. Ti*c5i.tmciit*—l^y flexion of the leg and thigh, and pressure on the head of the displaced fibula, reduction can usually be eflected. It is difiicult to keep the head of the bone in proper position; should it remain displaced, some permanent lameness may be apprehended. The plaster-of-Paris bandage accurately applied, the bmb being kept extended for some six weeks, would seem to be the best treatment. Afterwards a supporting apparatus must be constructed and worn. To present the dislocations of the fibula for consideration in a tabiUar form—(1) the upper end of the fibula may be dislocated from the tibia forwards, backwards, or upwards in certain dislocations of the ankle; (2) the lower end of the fibula may be displaced from the tibia in dislocations of the astragalus or ankle. It is also torn away from the tibia in “ Dupuytren’s fracture.” Direct backward dis- placement of the lower end of the fibula has been related. Dislocations of the knee-joint. Causation ami classi- fication.—The tibia is not displaced from the femur, except by extreme violence, since the ligaments are powerful, and the articular surfaces broad. Dislocations of the knee are found, therefore, in such accidents as those caused by powerful machineiy, with violent wrenchings and twistings of the lower limb. Dislocations of this joint may be congenital, and are found in various diseases of the articu- lation, especially in severe cases of locomotor ataxy (Charcot’s joint). The tibia may be thrown outwards, inwards, backwards, or forwards. The lateral dislocations are generally incomplete, the antero-posterior complete. The tibia is often also a little I’otated on its longitudinal axis, and the head of the bone may be displaced forwards and out- wards, or backwards and inwards, displacements compounded of the four first-named dislocations. These dislocations may be thus tabidated in order of frequency: —(1) Outwards, inwards, usually partial; (2) forwards, backwards, usually complete; (3) oblique partial displacements, as forwai'ds and outwards, or backwards and inwards. Condition of tlic soft parts.—In the complete dislocations forwards or backwards, the capsule, lateral, and crucial ligaments are extensively lacerated. The hamstring muscles may be torn across, the popliteal vessels and nerves pressed upon or even ruptured. Gangrene of the foot and leg has consequently followed severe antero-posterior dislocations of the knee. In the side dis- placements the lateral ligaments are torn to a variable degree. The more complete the displacement, the more extensive the laceration of the ligaments, and also of the muscles and tendons about the joint.