284 ANJlSTHETICS. to which it necessarily leads must be carefully watched when usin<^ chloroform. Patients with enlarged tonsils should be ansesthetLsed with caution, as the stertor induced sometimes passes into complete obstructiOT. Among the adventitious substances which may impede or arrest breathing may be mentioned vomited matters, blood, mucus pus, portions of morbid growth, extracted teeth, previously loose teeth or tartar, and dental mouth “props.” The treatment which should be adopted for the relief of obstructed breathmg is simple. An attempt should first be made to reinove the cause. Putting aside the presence of foreign bodies, obstructed breathing may in nine cases out of ten be immediately re leved by pushing the lower jaw forward from behind, care being taken to see that the teeth are not “ locked.” This manoeuvre not only brinp the tongue away from the pharynx, but the epiglottis rom the larynx. It may advantageously be combined with exten- sion of the head and neck. Should it not succeed, the mouth must be opened by means of a wedge or gag, and the finger passed to the base of the tongue, which should be hooked forwards. Should this not answer, the tongue must be pulled forwards vigorously with the tongue forceps. If this produces no good effects, the chest should be forcibly compressed from the front and sides. Lastly, should breath- ing still remain obstructed, laryngotomy must be performed. Should any of the foreign bodies above enumerated be the cause of the obstruction, steps must, of course, be immediately taken for their removal, or for the admission of air by laryngotomy. If, after a free air-way to the lungs has been established, respiration still remains in abeyance, artificial respiration should be performed. {Vide infra.) {b) Xlireatened or complete failure of respiration occurring' independently of any mechanical obstruction. Respiratory failure of this kind may arise (1) from paralysis of the respiratory centres, or (2) from spasm of the respiratory muscles. (1) Paralytic cessation of respiration is most commonly due to an over-dose of the anaesthetic; but it may be connected with inter- current asphyxia, syncope, or morbid states of the respiratory system. When chloroform is given in toxic quantities, the paralysis of breath- ing which occurs is almost invariably associated with an extremely feeble pulse and pallor ; whereas with ether the circulation is not dangerously depressed at the moment when respiration ceases, save in the case of patients in a very feeble state of health before the administration. The treatment which should be immediately adopted in paralytic respiratory failure is artificial respiration. In minor cases, and when the chest walls are sufliciently elastic, rhythmic compres- sion of the thoracic parietes will suffice j but in ordinary cases Silvester’s method should be systematically applied. The patient should be placed horizontally, with his head over the end of the table or side of the bed. His tongue should be drawn out, to avoid obstruction. The anaesthetist, standing behind his patient, should