OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. 903 alone somewhat reducing the length of a bone. The left humerus is also, notwithstanding its curvature, fiom an inch and a half to three-quarters of an inch longer than the right humerus, ^the measurement being taken along the arc of this curve (Figs. 346, 347). , . Symptoms.—After middle life or in old age the farst symptoms of the disease are generally noticed. The loss of height, _ stooping posture, and low position of the hands in the erect position are, perhaps, the most remarkable features. The curved lower limbs held apart, with the knees slightly bent and overhanging the ankles, are still more characteristic on careful examination of the nude figure. The vault of the cranium is com- paratively large for the face, and on in- quiry it will often be foimd that larger and larger hats have of late years been or- dered by the patient. The upper part of the spine will be seen to be quite fixed in its bowed position, whilst the ribs are crowded together and immovable. The breathing is, in such circumstances, entirely diaphragm- atic, in a manner exactly similar to that of spondylitis deformans. In the latter dis- ease, however, the immobility of the spine and ribs is alone observed, combined possibly with general osteo-arthritis. But there is no enlargement or curvature of the long bones, and the skull is entirely unaffected. On careful examination of the lower limbs in a case of osteitis deformans, the long bones will be found very much enlarged, and unifonnly curved outwards and forwards from one end to the other. Other bones may also be affected, and generally in a sym- metrical fashion; the case previously described (Figs. 345, 346, 347) being quite exceptional. The patients often complain of pain in the lower limbs and spine, but it is not severe, and is generally described as rheumatism. The general health may remain entirely unaffected, except fi’om sucli indisposition as may arise from want of exercise. Life is not materially shortened, except possibly from the onset of such an intercurrent malady as broncliitis, when the fixity of tlie chest would materially impair the patient’s powers of breathing. Treatment.—Iodide of potassium has not been found of much Fig. 346.—The upper Extremities of the Case shown in Fig. 345.