DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 5G2 and the disease it characterises is called thrombosis. As we have already seen, thrombi form in arteries as a result of injury and disease, and play an important part in the repair of injured vessels. But they are of very common occurrence in veins, and especially frequent as primary diseased conditions, and for this reason, and from the fact that the disease in veins plays an important part in pyiemia and septicaemia, thrombosis is discussed under the heading of diseases of veins. ° Causes. -Fibrin is formed by the union of the fibrinogen of the liquor sanguinis with the fibrino-plastin or paraglobulin of the white corpuscles, under the influence of a fibrin ferment, contained either in the same white blood cells or in. certain special small colourless corpuscles, called blood platelets. The setting free of this ferment is an act of death; it occurs when the corpuscles are brought into contact with dead or imperfectly vitalised material, or when, from any other circumstance, the corpuscles lose their vitality. The pathological causes of venous thrombosis may be ranged under two heads as followsc— (ffl) Conditions nftoctiiig' the pliysiologica.1 integrity oi the wnlls of veins.—These are injuries, such as incisions, con- tusions, lacerations, exposure in a wound, burns, and the action of caustics j injlammation of the vein, whether spreading to it from without, or lit up by an irritating thrombus or embolus ', degenera- tions, which are much less common in veins than arteries, and are chiefly met with in varices; and the eflTects upon the veins of blood stasis and exhaustion. It is believed that the integrity of the endothelium of a vessel depends upon the rapid and uninterrupted flow of_ blood through the vessel, and upon the activity of the circulation in the vasa vasorum. In stasis both of these conditions are wanting. {b) Conditions affecting directly the physiological in- tegrity of the blood, particularly of its white corpuscles. These are less clearly determined. The experimental introduction of a sufiicient quantity of “ fibrin-ferment ” into the circulation has been shown to cause widespread intravascular coagulation ; and a smaller quantity of the “ferment” causes febrile disturbances without thrombosis. It is believed that in septicaemia and pyaemia a liberation of the “ fibrin-ferment ” occurs, causing fever and the multiple thromboses met with in these diseases. Other blood con- ditions, such as gout and the result of exhaustion, may have the same effect, and one way in which stasis leads to thrombosis may be by the white corpuscles being deprived of their proper supply of oxygen. Foreign bodies in the blood stream, such as a needle or a thread transfixing a vein, emboli, existing thrombi, and micrococci, cause coagulation of the blood by destroying its physiological integrity. While these may be regarded as the pathological causes of throm- bosis, certain clinical causes must be separately considered. Of these, the most important is interference with the circulation of the