954 IHSLOOATiONB. The time taken for these changes to occur can liarclly be approxi- mately stated. Dislocations have been reduced after almost incredible periods. Whether it is best to attempt this treatment is another matter. As a general rule, if a dislocation of a large joint has remained unreduced as long as it would take a fracture of the corresponding long bone firmly to unite, great, and often insuperable, difficulties will be found in reduction. I believe this statement will be found reliable in practice. Cfenerai patliolog^y ol cong^enital tlisiocation.—Tlie various .pathological factors which, separately or combined, are found in congenital dislocations are well summed up by Hamilton as follows :— (1) Physiological causes, arrest of development, or an original defect m Die germ. (2) Pathological causes—as nerve lesions, contraction and paralysis of musetesTTaxity of ligaments, hydrarthrosis, or other articular disease. (3) Mechanical causes—as intra-uterine violence applied to the foetus or"^ injuries during delivery. Considering the latter cases, it may be remarked that some of them are really true traumatic displacements that may be rectified. Others are separations of the epiphyses, followed by arrest of growth. Some of the more pronounced forms of congenital dislocations are common in idiots ; and such congenital deformities as hare-lip, webbed digits, or extroversion of the viscera may also co-exist. The bone ends are usually ill-shaped or stunted, and the normal articular surfaces altered in shape, shallow, or actually absent. General pathology of spontaneous or pathological (}j§|)]nceinents.—It has been already pointed out, that in cases where ligaments have been severely stretched or ruptured by sprains or previous dislocation, displacements may take place from the slightest muscular exertion, and that some contortionists can produce certain dislocations apparently at will. Verneuil well sums up the causes of pathological displacements under the terms, dislocation by distension, by destruction, or by defornidtion. The majority of spontaneous dis- placements met with in jjractice^are really examples of destruction from disease of joints, with implication of the bone ends and liga- mentous attachments. Good clinical examples of dislocation from destruction are seen in tuberculous affections, when, the ligaments being gradually disintegrated, the bone surfaces become displaced. This is occasionally experienced in the knee. In certain cases of pyaemia, and especially as a sequel to bad cases of the specific feveis —typhoid, scarlet fever, and the so-called “puerperal state”— distension of the joint may occur, the ligaments are softened, and dislocations take place most unexpectedly, and often 'without obAdous suppuration. In actual practice, dislocation from distension ^ is generally seen in the hip, and in the joint affections associated with the acute fevers (such as typhoid). The head of the femur is generally displaced backwards. r • j In these cases the patient is usually too ill to allow of rigid