369 SPECIAL DEFORMITIES. abnormaJly tilted upwards. At a later date—from one-and-a.half to four years—lateral curvature may develop; in the earlier period this is oftL an extensive curve, with the concavity to the ngit, due to the child leaning to the right to rest the head on the nurses shoulder, when held in the habitual position on the left arm of the bearer. This curve may be accompanied by slight or no rotation ot the vertebral bodies. When developed subsequently to the assump- tion of the erect position, typical scoUosis may be met with; the deficient resistance offered by the softened bones and ligaments being especially favourable to the influences usually producing an habitual scoliosis. nij.ii Tliorax.—Changes in the thorax occur early—usuaUy about tlie sixth month—closely foUoiving those observed in the head. When well marked, the shape of the chest is approximated somewhat to the quadrupedal type. Beading of the epiphyses, involving both rib and cartilage, especially on the pleural aspect, occurs, producmg the^ so- called rosary (Fig. 74). The ribs, by reason of their deficient Pig. 75.—Eickety Pelvis. (Prom Sfc. Thomas’s Hospital JHuseum.) The great prominence of the sacro-vertehral angle is not well shown in this position of the pelvis. power of resistance, fall in just beyond the line of junction -with the cartilages, partly from the effect of - the atmospheric pressure during inspiration, partly from the lateral pressure exerted upon them by the hanging upper extremities. The ribs, from the second to the eighth, are the most aflected, failing to attain a proper length, while the angles become less obtuse than normal. The sternum at the same time projects or, in rare cases, sinks bodily. The outline of the lower part of the thoracic wall is influenced by the pressure of the solid viscera underlying it; thus the heart, liver, and spleen all support the ribs, and tend to produce irregularity of contour, especially the liver and spleen when they are much enlarged. The de- fective growth of the ribs causes serious permanent diminution in the vital capacity: a serious matter when pulmynary affections supervene.