dangers of ANjESTHESIA. 285 armq iust above the elbows and press them forcibly and rhoulT"IkeS^belp be at hand, expiration may be assmted by “‘^TspiTcid^o ?e5r“atey failure is apparently most common durto- theTtoi immediately preceding complete narcosis, and m nrobablv more liable to arise in muscular and m emphysematous rabLts^ than in othera It has proved fatal on several ““““'mj ow4v to the impossibility of overcoming the rigid fixity of the ohMh It may co-exist with obstruction to breathing. Minor cases may yie to SaLter's artificial respiration or in tte rhpst from below the costal margin or from the sides, liut in t graver forms of spasm, direct lung inflation by bellows through the mouth or through the opened larynx appears to hold out the best chances of success. 2. Circulatory. There is one fact which stands out prominently in connection with circulatory failure during anaesthesia : namely, that except when this failure occurs as the result of the surgical procedure, it is in the great majority of cases connected with or dependent upon em- barrassed or suspended breathing, and must, therefore, be treated by measures directed towards the re-establishment of respiration. Medical literature abounds with instances of misdirected treatmen . Whilst the exhibition of such cardiac stimulants as ether, brandy, digitalis, and ammonia may be strongly called for when the circula- tion has been depressed from haemorrhage, shock, or prolonged exposure, they are, generally speaking, useless in other circum- stances ; as, for example, when the patient has become asphyxiated during the stage of excitement and struggling, or when the circulation has suffered from the toxic effects of chloroform. The predisposing causes of circulatory failure during^ anaesthesia are : (1) Extreme exhaustion or shock prior to the administration ; (2) cardiac and respiratory affections, attended by impaired cardiac action ; and possibly (3) apprehension and fear. Instances of (1) and (2) may be found in such cases as amputation at the hip joint in a hectic and feeble subject, primary amputations for railway injuries, and operations upon patients with advanced heart affections, or with pleuro-pneumonia attended by empyema and pyrexia. Whether apprehension and fear ever really lead to syncope during anaesthesia is very uncertain. The so-called “ deaths from fright at the beginning of inhalation have hitherto been met with under chloro- form, not under other anaesthetics. Of the exciting causes of circulatory failure may be mentioned:- (1) The surgical procedure itself; (2) any pronounced asphyxial conditions ; (3) the administration of toxic doses of the anaesthetic ; and (4) the act of vomiting.