IT. INFLAMMATIOISr. By W. WATSON CHEYJSTE, F.R.S., F.R.O.S., Surgeon to King’s College Hospital; Professor of Surgery at King’s College. Definition.—Inflammation may be deflned as the immediate series of changes which occur in the tissues as the result of an injury, provided always that the injury is not of sufficient violence to destroy the tissues at once. That is to say, whenever an injury is done to a part, whether the noxious agent be a chemical or a mechanical one, a certain series of changes commences in that part, and that series of changes, up to a certain point (so long as they are of an exudative or destructive character), forms what we know as the inflammatory process. The degree of the inflammatory change and destruction of the tissue will depend on the length of time that the inflammation goes on, and its severity and after-eflects on the duration of the action of the irritant, and on the intensity with which it acts. I have especially said that it is the early series of changes occurring after an injury which are inflammatory, and if the mjury be slight, or if the irritant only act for a very short time, the changes which deserve the name of inflammation soon cease, and the further processes which occur are those of repair. Inflammation precedes repair; but repair is not inflammation, and must not be confounded with it. Inflam- mation is essentially a destructive process, and when it ceases repair commences. The phenomena of inflammation.—We see very well what happens in the early stage of inflammation if we watch the effect of a mustard poultice applied to the skin. If the poultice be removed after, say, ten minutes, the skin will be seen to be reddened over the whole area to which the irritant was applied; but if the finger be placed on any part of the red area, the redness at once disappears beneath it. If, on the other hand, instead of removing the mustard poultice in ten minutes it be left on, say for an hour, it will again be found that the skin has become reddened ) but it will also be seen that on passing the finger over the reddened area there are points here and there from which the redness cannot be pressed away. Thirdly, if the poultice be left on for a longer time, it will be found that not only is the redness of the skin a redness which cannot be dispelled by pressure, but that blisters have formed on the surface. In this observation we seethe wlioloscries of changes which occur