337 MADURA FOOT. flip mine are temporarily diminished in number. Methylene wl ^iven “rs-gram doses as a wafer, repeated every tov days, also lioLfmaUy givSs marked relief, when pain is severe. Morphia may j j fn ollnv nain In very severe cases preprostatic puncture St%"r: by dailylrrigation of Je bidder, has proved Riiccessful as a palliative measure (Mackie). , i , , -i.u In districts infected with the parasite care must be taken either to sterilise drinking water thoroughly by boiling, or to ensure efficient filtration. Bathing should be forbidden or discouraged, special warn- ing being given of the danger incurred in swallowing water. Keferknces. G. Sandison Brock : of Pathology and vol. ii. p. 52, 1894. Bilhaiz; Wiener medicmiscke Wochenscliriit, Nos. 4, 6, 1856. Grriesineer: Archiv fur Seilkimde, 18o6, vx)!. xu. P-o6L J HmiIv Transactions of the Medioo-Chirurgic^ Society, 1864. MaS^on I Davidson’s “ Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Chmates, 1893, p. 905. XYI. MADURA FOOT, MYCETOMA. iEtioloffy This is a chronic disease of the foot, and less com- monly of the hands, due to the entrance of a vegetable organism, with consequent development of granulation tissue and suppuration, all tissues of the limb being invaded indifferently. Madura foot is met with throughout India, but most commonly in the district of Madras, from which it has received its name. A case has been observed in Italy (Bassini), but otherwise it has not been seen in Europe. It attacks especially adult male natives, particularly those who work barefoot in the fields. Originally confounded with tubercle, Carter, after careful in- vestigation of the disease, ascribed its origin to the entrance of a vefyetable parasite, and the discovery and investigation of the actinomyces led him to infer the presence of a similar organism in madura foot. Striking differences, however, exist between the two diseases, madura foot affecting external surfaces alone, while actino- mycosis is common in the alimentary and respiratory tracts, and the organs and tissues in close relation with them ; and again, actino- mycosis occasionally spreads by embolic metastasis to distant organs : an occurrence not observed in madura foot, and one which is, per- haps, tbe more striking, since the hyphse of the organism have been observed within the blood-vessels by Boyce. Recent observers have studied the organism in preserved specimens in the light of present knowledge, but cultivation and inoculation experiments are still needed to clear up its actual nature. Kanthack regards the fish-roe bodies as a form of actinomyces, and the black masses in their most perfect shape as also of this nature, the relation between the two forms being established by the occasional occurrence of a degenerated form of the yellow variety, not wholly unlike the black masses. Boyce and Smweyor, on the other hand, regard the yellow masses as consisting lai’gely of caseous material, with the remains of a lowly-organised fungus, presenting