XXIX. INJUEIES OF BONES. By Stanley Boyd, M.B. Bond., F.E.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at. Charing Cross Hospital, CONTUSIONS OF BONE. The result of simple contusions is more or less swelling of the periosteum—immediate from extravasation, which may occur also in the marrow and Haversian canals ; later, from inflammatory exuda- tion. As a rule, this traumatic periostitis soon subsides. Occasion- ally, tubercular or pyogenic organisms reach the injured spot, leading to tubercular osteitis in the one case, to acute suppuration, perliap.s accompanied with symptoms of pyjemia, in the other. But between a blunt object and a bone the soft parts are often lacerated, as wlien a pistol ball strikes a bone obliquely : the injury is then compound. Treatment.—Simple contusions are best treated by rest, eleva^ tion, and uniform compression, or by an ice-bag, until swelling has ceased ; then moist warmth and, later, elastic pressure and massage will promote absorption. In compound contusions, seen early, careful disinfection and, if possible, closure of the wound must be practised ; a reliable antiseptic dressing being used in any case. If the wound is, or can be rendered aseptic and closed, the probability of trouble is no greater than in a simple, injuiy. If the wound cannot be closed, some separation of the injured bone is likely to result. If the wound suppurate, the clots in the veins leading from the dead ai-ea become infected with pyogenic cocci, a skate of matters which formerly led only too frequently to embolic pyjemia. A suppurating wound with bone bare in its floor may be treated with iodoform and fomentations wrung out of 1 in 2,000 perchloridc of mercury lotion. Symptoms of osteomyelitis or of general septic poisoning will necessitate removal either of the part, or of all the bone bare in the wound, until apparently healthy bleeding bone is reached in all directions. WOUNDS OF BONE. Incised wounds of bones are usually inflicted by sabres, axes, and the like; sometimes they are shallow or deep notches with cracked margins and a more or less widely comminuted floor; some- times a. flap of bone and of soft ]^arts is raised, especially by sword