diseases of 0I0ATBICE8. 231 grafts healing of the wound skin grafting according to Thiersch’s method is employed (page^l^^^^^^^ we have to do with painful oicaSices t“ is generally the implication of the ->esvee .n the contracting fibrous tissue and the consequent occurrence of a certain amount of neuritis; and the best remedy is to dissect away the scar altogether and employ immediate skin graftmg._ 3. Contracting cicatrix. Where we have contracting cicatrices, the cicatrix should be divided and the gap either closed by plastic operation, or much better by Thiersch’s skin (Figs. 41 and 42). 4. Cheloid.—A che- loid condition of a scar is one in which the scar begins to thicken, the thickening commencing at the point where it joins the skin. After a time these scars form irregular and unsightly hard pro- jections, which often show dilated veins on the sur- face which are not very vascular and which creak under the scalpel. The surface is smooth and glistening and raised, and from the major mass no- dules or claw-like pro- cesses may extend over the adjacent integument. The skin around be- comes pulled on, and in this way great deformity results. This condition of cheloid seems to be dependent on some constitutional state, and is supposed to be more especially associated with tuberculous disease. It is often noticed in wounds which have been irritated unduly. Certain it is that in some persons every scar, even the minutest, tends to thicken and become cheloid this way. These scars do not, as a rule, cause any pain, but Pig. 42.—Same Case as Fig. 41, after the Arm had beeu separated from the Side and the raw Surfaces made to heal at once hy Skin-grafting. they are heavy and unsightly, and are very apt to ulcerate and bleed. They are often the seat of great itching and there may be neuralgic pains in them. On examining the structure micro- scopically, there is found to be marked proliferation of the fibrous tissue, and in the growing parts there are numerous cells. They