POST-MORTEM WOUNDS. £'95 +1,0 pnviv advent o£ general symptoms of septic acute 5“** yit which the local process spreads, the Ec/W often of an incomplete nature, and thesloughing^of tom acute or chronic; while the acnfe’^sKfst be again subdivided into those in which general or ‘%nc“eU^^ form-happily, the rarestbresemhles closely the similar condition “XToetaf s‘X“rc" -d L rapid f the g t^femperatire, followed by unconsciousness and death probably on the second day. The local signs are often slight Sably by reason of the abrogation of the general nutritive funLons. The wounded spot may become slightly oedematous and a small vesicle not infrequently marks the seat of primary inocula- tion ; but otherwise, no marked local changes occy. ^ (2) Acute cellulitis, accompanied by symptoms general septic absorption.-The local symptoms here take the foremost place. The upper extremity is almost ^i^^l^out the part affected, punctures of the fingers or scratches on the backs of the hands from the ends of the ribs being common starting-pomts. The first symptoms are malaise and local pain of a racter at the point of inoculation. These are followed by lapid swelling and the formation of pus often during the first twelve hours ; gIneSrise of temperature to 103^ or 105° F„ often heralded by rigor and sickness, and acceleration of the pulse-rate. The further progress of the case varies considerably, either as result of the nature of the poison inoculated, or of the peculiar sus- ceptibility of the individual affected, In some cases gangrenous boils or pustules only develop, these being, however, often very chronic in their coui-se. In other slighter cases a red line marks the spread of infection by the lymphatic vessels, and the glands in the axilla become swollen and tender. The process inay then rapidly subside, with or without the development of a glandular abscess. The lymphatic glands here act as an effectual safeguard against (general infection, probably seconded by a normal resistance on the part of the individual constitution. In the course of a week such an infection may leave little behind it beyond a certain amount ot weakness, consequent on the general febrile disturbance. Such is t le variety usually observed in the dissecting-room. In the more serious cases, which are far from uncommon, bot i the local process and general symptoms take on a graver aspect. ^ A severe cellulitis rapidly spreads from the seat of infection, involving the fore-arm, the arm, and in the most grave cases the trunk also. . . The local signs, however, again differ ; the cellulitis may be of