511 nmrojiUHAGE. plays an all-important part in the temporary closure of the vessel, it takes no direct active share in its permanent closure or healing. It affords a certain amount of pabulum for the cells from which the cicatrix is developed; it protects the formative tissue from the impact of the blood when it is soft and unable to withstand it; it may form to some extent a mould in which the cicatrix is developed; but eventually the wliole of the clot—fibrin and blood corpuscles—disappears. The “external clot” is sometimes partly washed away with the abundant serous exudation from the wound; into what remains leucocytes wander from the vessels of the sheath and surrounding tissues, and they are quickly followed by the true plasma cells, derived from the hyperplasia of the cells of the sheath and other divided tissues. These plasma cells are found at first in the minute spaces or channels which are formed in the clot, probably by its contraction (Fig. 138). They rapidly multiply, and absorb and re- place the clot. They then organise into vascular con- nective tissue, at first richly cellular and very vascular, gradually becoming more fibrous and less vascular. This external cicatrix is continuous with that of the neighbouring severed tissues, which it re- sembles in its origin and de- velopmental changes. The artery itself contracts upon the tapering internal clot, and as the clot fills out its divided end a bulbous Fig. 138.—A Portion of Clot in an Artery fom-- teeu Days after Ligature, sliowing cracks and fissures, x 90. This part of the clot was not adlierent to the artery, and had not heen as yet invaded by leucocyies or plasma - corpuscles. (Ballance and Ed- munds.) form is sometimes g bulbous enlargement of 1 to the vessel. This appearance of a the end of the vessel is not the result of yielding of the artery, but of contraction of its upper part. The internal clot at first is adherent to the artery at its divided end only, and here a change of colour from black-red to grey is early noticed. The grey colour gradually extends through the clot, and at the same time it is found to adhere to the lining of the vessel more and more extensively. Gradually now the line of demarcation between the arterial wall and the altered clot becomes less distinct, and the clot is found to be vascular; the whole vessel as far as the clot naiTOWs more and more, until at last a vascular cord of cicatricial tissue is all that exists to mark the site of the former vessel, and this scar is continuous with that of the surface of the wound. The obliteration of the lumen of the artery extends as far as the internal clot, and thus the length of tliis clot is of real moment.