GONGENITAJj BIS LOCATIONS OF THE HIF. 1009 (1) The joint is opened by a straight posterior incision, and the capsule is divided at its femoral attachment. (2) The muscles attached to the ti’ochanter major are divided as close to their pei-iosteal attachments as possible. In children under five it is generally possible by flexion of the thigh, and direct pressure upon the head of the bone, to bring the latter into the situation of the old acetabulum. The hip and knee now remain flexed. (4) The head of the bone being held firmly in its new position, an assistant gradually extends the thigh, so as to extend and stretch the biceps, semi-membranous, aird semi-tendinous. (5) A new acetabulum is formed, if needful, by the free use of Volkmann’s spoon. In children of over six years the hamstring muscles are divided near the tuber-ischii. The limb is next abducted, and the adductors divided subcutaneously. The limb is hyper-extended, and the fascia lata divided freely near the anterior superior spme. The head of the femur is now cut down upon by the posterior incision, the short muscles attached to the trochanter are divided, and the head of the femur is thrust out of the wound. The capsule must be very freely divided, especially the anterior part of it, and any liga- mentum teres present cut away. Should the acetabulum be shallow or insufficient, a new cavity is formed by the free use of a sharp Volkmann’s spoon. The cavity must be broad and deep. The head of the bone, by traction and manipulation, is fixed in this. The limb is placed in a fixed apparatus, with the thigh abducted, and careful asepsis must be aimed at. After four weeks, massage and cautious passive movements are carried out. Then an apparatus is constructed, which is worn for weeks or months. Cases of bilateral displacement wear a corset. Lorenz modifies Hoffa’s operation by making an anterior incision. He divides the adductors and ham- strings subcutaneously. He lays stress on division of the anterior part of the capsule. Hofia claims by his operation to minimise the waddling gait, and overcome the lordosis. He does not promise complete cure. Anchylosis only occurs if there is suppuration. Paci recommends forcible manipulation of the limb as in a traumatic dislocation. Afterwards the limb is fixed in extension in a plaster-of-Paris splmt for two months. On the removal of this an extension apparatus is ap]fiied. Koenig’s plan of raising a portion of bone and periosteum from the ilium has received little support. Hofia has lost some of his cases from shock and he- morrhage, and fatal peritonitis has occurred from attempts to form a new acetabulum with gouge and mallet, for the bone is thin and weak, and easily perforated. The position of the wounds renders perfect asepsis very difficult to maintain, and the occui’rence of suppuration and necrosis would be disastrous. I can testify that the oj)eration may be very difiicult, and attended with trouble- some bleeding. In England the conditions obtained by Hofla’s operation liave been generally disappointing, and far inferior to the