INJUEIlilS OF BONES. 818 1. Su|>i-a-con«lyIoid frsictm-c, in wliicli a transverse or oblique fracture crosses the bone above the epicondyles; the lower fragment, with the fore-arm bones in tlieir normal relation to it, is usually- drawn backwards by the triceps, moving on the lower end of the upper fragment as upon a hinge, or displaced wholly backwards behind the upper. Signs.—Seen from the side, with the fore-arm flexed or hanging, the eibow projects markedly backwards, but its point is not very acute; there is bony swelling in front, immediately above the flexor fold, and an obtuse angle opening backwards and upwards at the same level behind. The arm, from acromion to epicondyle, is a little shortened, but the fore-arm, from epicondyle to styloid pi’ocess, is noinnal. The relations between the olecranon and the two epi- condyles are normal, and neither the greater sigmoid notch of the ulna, nor the pit on the head of the radius, can be felt. The upper fragment has not the shape of the lower end of the humerus. Defor- mity is easily reduced with crepitus, and easily recurs. In exceptional cases, and especially when the transverse fracture ig low—perhaps even crossing the cartilage-covered surface—the lower fragment is displaced forwards. Side to side obliquity of the line of fracture will tend to cause the lower fragments to glide in or out. The joint may.be opened in any ordinary case ; various nerves and vessels are liable to injury from it. When compound the upper fragment generally protrudes in front. 2. Sepai'atioii of tlie lower epiphysis.—This epiphysis is so shallow that it forms little of the olecranon fossa, but it mounts on each side to the epicondyle ; the lower end of the shaft becomes with growth increasingly convex, especially from side to side. Centres appear in the capitellum at 2 to 3 years, in the trochlea at 11 to 12, in the external epicondyle at 13, and in the internal epicondyle at 5. ’ The first three soon blend and unite with the shaft at 16 to 17, whilst the internal epicondyle unites at 18. After 10 the epiphysis adds only about 1 cm. to the length of the bone. IJp to 5 or 6 a pure separation of the whole cartilaginous end is probable; later, a mixed separation and fracture are more likely. The fracture may be incomplete, the epiphysis being “bent” inwards or outwards, in one case (age 12) examined anatomically, the epicondyles did not accompany the capitellum and trochlea. In over fifty cases (between U to 14 years) J. Hutchinson, junr., found no instance of suppura- tion in a simple case. Callus in front of the joint tends to be exuberant and to limit flexion, especially if reduction be imperfect. Signs.—As in supra-condyloid fractures in complete cases. There may be no displacement, only an antero-posterior “give just above the elbow (J. Hutchinson, junr.). _ 3 The T-fi’actmre (Fig. 255) consists of a moi’e or less tians- verse fissure, crossing the bone at a varying height above the articular surface, and of another, vertical, which descends from the former and generally through the trochlea. It is not very coinmon, and usually occurs in adults, being almost always the result of direct