133 niBEGT GANGRENE. great sloughing, no extension of the gangrene, no inflammation around, and no constitutional symptoms. Thus, as regards the treatment of these cases, it is evident that the first and by far the most important thing to do is to render the injured part and the skin around aseptic, in the manner which is described in the article on Wounds (page 214). The best dressings to employ are the cyanide gauze dressings. It is well here, as in all cases of gangrene, to avoid the use of ointments, so as to allow the evaporation of the fluid and the drying up of the slough. In cases where a very large portion of skin has been destroyed as the result of the injury—as, for example, in the case of severe lacerated wounds, where the skin may be torn ofi" from the greater part of an extremity—the question of immediate amputation will have to be considered, and the old rule was that in these extensive cases amputation was the best practice. Since the introduction of skin grafting, however, this rule is not so imperative, and many cases wliich would formerly have been amputated may now be treated conservatively with satisfactory results. The chief reason for re- commending amputation in former days was the great extent of the sore which was left, and, apart from the septic risks, the difficulty in getting healing of this sore; further, if healing occurred the great contraction which followed often rendered the parts beneath absolutely useless, both from contraction of the joints and from con- striction of the limb, leading to great oedema and deformity of the parts below. With skin grafting, however, employed as soon as possible, these difficulties, which essentially depend on the contrac- tion of the granulations, may be to a very great extent avoided. In cases where the injury has been such as to destroy the main vessels or nerves leading to the distant parts, or to fracture the bones badly, the question of primary amputation will have to be con- sidered ; and formerly most cases of this kind were regarded as demanding immediate removal of the Hmb. This rule also has been much altered lately, on account of the possibility of avoiding decomposition and septic risks, and the rule which we may now follow is that we do not amputate at once unless we are certain that the parts beneath must die as the result of the absence of the circulating blood, or that they must become absolutely useless from tlie loss of the nervous supply. In cases where these points are doubtful, or where, although the local injury is very extensive, yet the blood and nervous supply to the parts beloAv is satisfactory, one should delay amputation, and after thoroughly disinfecting the region which has been injured, and placing the distal parts in the best condition for recovery, by keeping them warm and elevating them slightly, one may wait and see whether they are likely to recover and be of use to the patient. If that be not the case—and it will become evident in twenty-four or forty-eight hours after the injury—then am- putation may be done, and there is this further advantage in dela}dng the amputation, that the patient has time to recover from the shock of the accident, for it not uncommonly happens that when primary