DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1096 have been cases in the past in which this measure was proper, and has saved life at the expense of the limb. But such cases are becoming raier and rarer. My own opinion is that in instances of very extensive hip joint disease the patient usually stands as good a chance of his life by waiting and careful evacuation of morbid products as he does from amputation at the joint. In my own experience, which has been large both of cases treated with- out and with excision, it has never been necessary to sacrifice the limb, and I have never had occasion to regret not having done this operation. In one case it was proposed because the patient, a boy of about ten, had run down with chronic suppuration, and was extensively affected with amyloid disease; but the parents decided against removal of the limb. This boy ultimately recovered wonder- fully, and years after had a sound and useful limb and healthy body. Indeed, so much is now accomplished by early constitutional treat- ment and immobilisation in preventing destructive change in the hip joint—and, when this latter has begun, in arresting it by timely limited operation—that the need for amputation at the hip joint has almost disappeai-ed, and ought before long to be quite a thing of the past. I have quite lately had under my care a boy of about ten, whose limb had been thus removed for tubercle of the hip by some other surgeon, and who came to me for tuberculous disease of the remaining knee, but though he was alive, the result was anything bxit encouraging. Chronic osteo arthritis of the hip.—This is a very common affection in patients past middle life in both sexes. Its general pathology has already been described (page 1052), and Ave are here only concerned in its clinical features. The syiiiptoiiis ai’e at first usually stiffness and a certain amount of “ tearing ” pain on rising in the morning, and especially in bad heavy weather, or when the patient is run down and debilitated. This is followed by a sensation of grating in the joint on use, and more and more limitation of movement, even to complete fixation. Sometimes there is effusion into the capsule in this stage, especially after over-use ; and if this condition is present, it will indicate an inflammatory process gi’afted on the degenerative, as the result of the friction of the roughened surfaces. But as the altered head of the femur becomes further and further buried in the osteophytes of the acetabulum, the liability to this inflammation Avill groAV less. The treatment consists in improvement of the poAvers of assimi- lation and elimination by attention to diet, and the moderate use of the more digestible stimulants and the alkaline mineral Avaters. The clothing must also be abundant, and the patient should take i*e- gular exercise. The Avarm baths of Wildbad appear to exercise a most favourable influence upon this disease, and if combined Avith regular massage even to arrest its progress in the early stages. When locking of the bones has taken place, as the result of tlie groAvth of osteophytes and the alteration in the shape of the liead of the femur and acetabulum, nothing further can be done. All