909 TUMOURS OF BONE. contact with the thorax. A patient may thus really require i-eliei from a growth, large or small, which would otherwise be considered ([uite unimportant. Treatment.—The ivory or compact osteoma may, if small and situated in a place where it cannot intei’fere by pressure on im- portant parts, be left alone. On the otlier hand, it may, from its proximity to a nerve, cause such pain as to necessitate its removal; or, from its growth into the cavity of the orbit, so displace the eye as to render an operation highly desirable. There is no reason at the present day why its removal should not be attempted. Formerly the chisel and saw were the instruments emplo}’'ed, and they were generally unsuccessful. But with the “ dental engine,” a earefully conducted operation may succeed in removing the whole of the offending part without too great \dolence to the surrounding tissues. It must, however, be remembered that in the skull the growth may extend into the cranial cavity in the same way as it projeets upon the surface. The operation must, therefore, only be undertaken when something more than the mere symmetry of the part or improved personal appearance is desired. The cancellous osteoma can be very easily removed with the chisel, but when there are a large number the surgeon would naturally hesitate before he recommended the removal of them all. He would select only those which were causing incon- venience or much deformity. Most of them are capped with cartilage, and cease to grow with the ossifica- tion of this cartilaginous cap. Moreover, those which appear in the adolescent period of life generally undergo this change, with the complete ossification of tlie skeleton. It is, therefore, undesirable to operate with the belief that moi'e trouble will ensue than at present exists. It must be borne in mind that sueh osteomata are generally placed about epiphysial lines, and, therefore, in elose proximity to joints. Their removal will also necessarily open up the cancellous tissue of bone. For these reasons it is essential that the best anti- septic or aseptic methods of wound treatment be employed. Of other special outgrowths of bone, the auditory osteomata or exostoses will be considered in Art. XLI., Vol. II., and the ossi- fication of tendons in Art. XXXIV., Vol. II. {See also page 455 and Fig. 102.) The subungual osteoma (exostosis) is capped with cartilage, from which it continues to grow like the other cancellous Pig. 350.—SnTjungual Osteoma in wliicli tlie Nail lias disapiieared. (From a east in St. Thomas's Hospital Museum.) osteomata, projects It is attached to the ungual phalanx of the big toe, and the matrix of the nail at the tip of the toe through