treatment of secondary HNiMORRTIAGE. S-i-S of an artery, and the breach in its ^valls is at first minute, and allows only a tiny stream of blood to escape. In and around this tiny apeU-eaclotform^ stops the loss; but as the disintegration proceeds, tliis clot is detached, and fresh hiemorrhage results. This Iho may be arrested by a clot, and again a further disintegiation taHn<^ place the lueraorrhage is renewed. This recurrent cliaractei, will a increase in the amount of blood lost, until it escapes in a full stream, is peculiar to secondary hemorrhage, and is exceedino-ly important to bear in mind, for serious secondary hemo- rrhage is°always preceded by a slight loss, which should warn the sunjeoii of what is about to occui. „ - , ri.ii The earliest sign, therefore, is the escape of a few drops of blood, merely staining the pus or other discharge, and this may be mistaken for oozincr from granulations. The blood, however, will be noticed to come from the depth of the wound, and to be unconnected with any- thim^ that could injure granulations, such as probing. This oozing stops, and in a few hours, or longer, is followed by another oozing —more free this time—and again the bleeding stops. But after a short interval another bleeding occurs, and this time, perhaps, the loss is so rapid that unless quickly arrested by the surgeon it proves fatal. Too much importance, therefore, cannot be attached to the occurrence of a slight oozing of blood from the deep part of a wound in which an artery has been tied or exposed, or from an abscess cavity near a large artery. It is the herald of the dreaded secondary bleeding, and the surgeon who observes it should at once make his preparations to deal with the yielding artery, and the patient should be continuously watched by a skilled attendant. In some cases the haemorrhage is preceded by a rise of tempera- ture and by pain and deep swelling in the part, due to escape of blood around the artery. Principles of treatment of secondary IiaBmorrIiage.— As soon as ever it is clear that secondary liaemorrhage has occurred, active measures should be taken to deal with it. The fact that the bleeding has ceased when the surgeon reaches his patient in no way modifies this injunction. In the case of primary haemorrhage, when the bleeding has ceased the surgeon should not interfere; but in a case of secondary haemorrhage no such rule must be followed, for Nature is unable to deal permanently with a yielding and ulcerating vessel, and the cessation of bleeding is but temporary, and will surely be followed by a more profuse haemorrhage. Bor the same reason, the amount of blood lost must not be allowed to decide the course to be pursued. The slight haemorrhage is but the prelude to the more profuse, and if the surgeon waits to interfere until the bleeding is serious in intensity, he exposes his patient to grave danger, and will cei’tainly be called upon to act in less favourable circum- stances. It is necessary to insist upon this point, because in its early stages secondary haimorrhage is very deceptive, and the surgeon may easily be thi-own off his guard ; and the means to be adopted may appear to the unthinking out of proportion to the obvious s