DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1114 circulation and sensation in the toes being our guide. As long as these are natural we may be satisfied ; but if impaired, the limb must be placed in a flexed position again at once, and a second operation removing more bone be done. Of course, in such a case firm, bony anchylosis is the aim we have in view. But even in cases where the bone is freely removed, and there is no strain put \ipon the arteries from the straightening of the limb, the old cicatricial tissue dating from the original disease may press upon the vessels in the new position, and prevent the circulation. Such a case has recently occurred in my own practice, and resulted in gangrene of the toes. The limb was ultimately amputated above the knee, and the vessels were found on dissection to be normal, but had probably been pressed upon by the old cicatricial tissue when the limb was put in a straight line. Haemophilia affecting the knee.—This joint is probably more frequently the seat of haemorrhage among “bleeders” than any other. It is so slightly covered by soft parts, and so frequently afiected by blows and strains, that this is not to be wondered at. The symptoms and treatment have already been considered (page 376). Neuralgia of the knee is frequently met with after inflam- matory affections of the knee. The symptoms and general treatment have been already alluded to (page 1074). Neoplasms about the knee belong almost exclusively to the chondroma and sarcoma groups. As a rule, once a diagnosis of such an affection has been made nothing is left but amputation well above the growth through the thigh. If there be any doubt as to diagnosis, the tumour may be explored easily by an aseptic incision, and in some few cases perhaps it is safe to remove chondromata which do not too widely involve the joint surfaces. Cystic swelliiig^s about tUe knee.—These are not infre- quently met with in the course of Charcot’s disease, and of tuberculous synovitis in adults. In either case they only represent expansion of the true capsule of the joint distended with the fluid produced by the original disease, or they may be dilatations of the various bursae round the joint, witli or without a communication with the latter. When due to Charcot’s disease, but little can be done for them; but when the result of either tuberculous or other chronic irritation, I have frequently dissected them out in whole or in part with the best results. Lioose bodies are commoner in the knee than in any other joint. Their pathology, symptoms, and treatment have already been discussed (page 1070). AFFECTIONS OF THE ANKLE JOINT. Simple acute synovitis of the ankle joint.—This is, on the whole, a comparatively rare condition. And when one considers the exposed position of the ankle, and the consequent blows, twists, and strains to which it is subjected, this is a matter of some wonder,