451 fJPOMATA. are often mistaken for ruptures; they are known as “ fatty hermse. Occasionally a fatty hernia forms a swelling as large as a bantam s e<^S in the scrotum or labium, and when exposed is not unlike omentum. Subserous lipomata associated with sma,ll peritoneal pouches are not uncommon in the linea alba in the vicinity of the umbilicus. {See Art. XLVIII., on Hernia, Vol. II.) _ Pedunculated subserous lipomata are usually associated with the colon; they are for the most part very large arborescent epiploic appendages. 3. Subsynovial lipomata.—Many synovial membranes have fat in the deeper layers. This fat may increase in quantity and cause the serous membrane to bulge into the joint until the mass becomes distinctly pedunculated—a subsynovial lipoma. This occurs most frequently in association with the alar ligaments of the knee- joint. The unusual variety to which J. Muller gave the name “ lipoma arborescens ” consists of a number of small pedunculated fatty fringes projecting into the synovial cavity. This condition is often associated with chronic joint disease. The processes have the same relation to the synovial membrane that epiploic appendages bear to the peritoneum. 4. Submucous lipomata.—This species rarely attains a large size. Submucous fatty tumours have been met with in the stomach, jejunum, and rectum; beneath the mucous membrane of the bps, the larynx, and the conjunctiva. Many of the cases in the larynx are pedunculated ; in the intestine they may possess stalks, and have caused intussusception. 5. Intermuscular lipomata.—The connective tissue between muscles is often provided with fat, and is the source of lipomata, not only in the trunk but also in the limbs. The sucking-cushions in emaciated children sometimes become enlarged and simulate lipo- mata; they also occasionally enlarge in adults wlien the parotid duct is obstructed by a salivary calculus. Intermuscular lipomata in the limbs are occasionally connected with the sheaths of nerves— neuro-bpomata. 6. Intramuscular lipomata.—Many examples of fatty tumours occuning within muscles have been recorded. They are of interest from the trouble they cause in diagnosis. They have been observed in the deltoid, biceps (of the arm), complexus and rectus (of the abdomen); in the wabs of the cardiac ventricles, and in the centre of pedunculated myomata of the uterus. 7. Periosteal lipomata.—This species arises from the perios- teum of bone. They are usually congenital, and nearly always contain tracts of striated muscle fibre. Periosteal lipomata are com- monest on the scapula and innominate bones; they have been observed on the clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia, fibula, cervical vertebrie, and frontal bone. Periosteal, as well as the sub- cutaneous species, ai-e sometimes so vascular that they resemble nacvi; occasionally they are termed nsevo-bpomata. 8. Meningeal lipomata.—Patty tumours occur within as p 2