490 fUMOURS. conjunctival epithelium and eyelashes carried in and transplanted on the vascular iris may grow into tumours. 2. Tubulo-dermoids.—There exist in the human embryo certain canals and passages, many of which normally disappear before birth. Three of these obsolete canals—the thyro-glossal duct, the branchial clefts, and the post-anal gut—are occasionally the source of dermoids. Lingual dermoids, especially those situated between the genio- hyo-glossi muscles and attached to the hyoid bone, doubtless arise in persistent portions of the buccal extremity of the thyro-glossal duct. Dermoids situated deeply in the substance of the tongue have been frequently mistaken for sebaceous cysts. They sometimes attain very large proportions, and bulge from the mouth. Occasionally, dermoids arising in the lingual segment of the thyro-glossal duct are structurally identical with the thyroid gland; they are known as thyroid-dermoids. Rectal dei'moids.—It must be borne in mind that dermoids are occasionally found hanging by pedicles from the mucous mem- brane of the rectum; others, sometimes of large size, grow between the rectum and the anterior face of the sacrum; these are known as post-rectal dermoids. There is a third species, which occurs as a large massive tumour projecting from the sacro-coccygeal region, and in structure closely resembling thyroid gland tissue. There are good reasons for the belief that post-rectal dermoids, and those congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours situated anterior to the coccyx and sacrum, arise in the post-anal gut of the embryo. Branchial dermoids.—These arise in persistent portions of the branchial clefts. These tumours are always congenital and are usually situated beneath the deep cervical fascia. Like congenital (lateral) cervical fistula, they always project in front of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Those arising in connection with the deep parts of the second cleft may bulge in the mouth between the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossi muscles. They must not be confounded with dermoids arising in persistent remnants of the glossal portion of the thyro-glossal duct. Tubulo-dermoids, apart from their mode of origin, differ from the sequestration genus in the following points (a) They often attain very large proportions ; (b) exhibit a more complex structure; (c) and not infrequently contain teeth. 3. Ovarian dermoids.—These tumours differ from other genera of dermoids on account of their mode of origin and the greater variety of dermal structures they contain. It is from the epithelium lining the ovarian follicles that the mucous membrane, skin and dermal structures are derived, which constitute such an extraordinary feature in the majority of ovarian dermoids. Ovarian dermoids not only differ from the sequestration and tubulo-dermoids in their complexity, but also in the greater develop- ment of the dermal structures they contain. Thus, in ovarian dermoids hair is longer and more abundant; and has been known to