881 OSTEOMYELITIS. Patliological aiialoiny au«l sctiolo^^y.—After ami>utation, compound fractures, and gunsliot injuries, it was in former times of fairly frequent occurrence. It lias now become comparatively rare; and this improvement must be undoubtedly attributed to the antiseptic treatment of wounds. Tlie open medullary canal lying exposed in a suppurating wound be- comes infected with the same or- ganisms : namely, the pyogenic bac- teria, which have given origin to the suppuration of the wound or stump. Decomposition of pent-up discharges in an irregular and lacerated wound undoubtedly facilitates' the growth of these organisms. The ptomaines of the putrefactive bacteria, if these be present, injure the vitality of the surrounding tissues, and so lessen the resistance to the pyogenic or- ganisms. {See page 25.) The disease thus started in the medullary canal may spread throughout its whole length, and the products of this in- flammation finding no outlet, and confined Avithin bony walls, may so arrest the circulation as to cause necrosis (Fig. 334). (See page 885.) This condition is also specially prone to give rise to embolic pyaemia, for the veins within the medullary canal are unable to collapse and assist in the formation of an adherent and healthy thrombosis. Symptoms.—Deep-seated SAvell- ing of the soft parts covering the bone affected, whilst the skin remains almost in its natural condition, severe dull aching pain, and much tender- ness on pressure are the chief local signs. An increase of the discharge from tho wound or stump, which has become offensive, is also likely exposed and capable of examination, the periosteum will be found swollen and ^ easily separated from its attachment. The bone itself when visible, as in the case of the skull, will be dry, yellow, and dead. If a probe can be introduced into the medulla it will encounter no resistance, and no bleeding will be produced till healthy constitutional symptoms of an infective Fig. 334.—^Necrosis of Stump from infec- tive Osteomyelitis. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 677.) to occur. If the bone is marrow be reached.