782 INJURIES OF BONES. value of creolin powder, but we do know that living germs may exist in numbers in either dry or wet iodoform. It seems likely, therefore, that dryness is the chief factor in the success achieved, as it was when Neudorfer similarly used plaster of Paris, and the surgeons of the Strasburg Hospital used sachets of castor sugar. Simplicity, absence of disturbance, and ease of examination are important advantages. Treatment of septic cases.—If a compound fracture “ goes wrong,” treatment must be in accordance with the general principles of surgery. The most perfect fixation, the most complete rest, the best position to facilitate drainage, secure ease and diminish the blood supply to the part must be arranged for. If the skin-wound be small, the extravasation wide, and the infection severe, no time should be lost in cutting freely down to the fracture, and widely into the area of extravasation; large tubes or iodoform gauze plugs should be inserted, and, after bleeding has quite ceased, the inflamed part should be surrounded by a thick fomentation, wrung out of boiling 1 in 2,000 perchloride of mercury lotion, changed every three hours. The objects of this are (1) to ensure that there shall be no retention of infected fluids in the tissues; to provide that it shall be easier for such fluids and the germs present in them to run out into the dressing than to pass by lymphatics and veins into the circulation, causing ofeneral poisoning, or into adjacent connective tissue planes, there to excite suppuration—to obviate which evils drainage can hardly be too free; (2) to prevent further change in the discharge whilst in contact with the wound ; (3) to dilate the superficial vessels over a large area, and thus reduce pressure in the inflamed area; and (4) to encourage granulation. Continuous irrigation where it be established with a free flow—at least a pint a minute can treating of water at about 60° F. is another excellent plan of septic cases. It acts by washing away decoruposable discharges, preventing the settlement of germs, and keeping down the tem- ^ The temperature chart will be anxiously watched, and the limb be frequently examined for any indication of abscess or spreading oedema; sometimes suppuration goes on most insidiously, and con- siderable abscesses are unexpectedly discovered. With immovable .splints it is difficult to make these frequent examinations; with movable ones, it may be hard to control the parts. The more widely our incisions are distributed, the more difficult is it to apply efficient dressings and splints. But, whilst the inflammation is spreading, our first object must be to control it, and deal with its results. , i Ultimately, in bad cases, prolonged spreading suppuration, hectic fever, frequent incisions, and anesthetics have so worn out the patient’s strength and courage, and the limb has been so damaged, that both patient and surgeon are glad to end the case by a secondary amputation. In the course of such a case an uninjured joint may siipVrate; but, generally, when a joint suppurates it has been