315 actinomycosis. • with some modifications, the most important of which £s mXd tendency to localisation by the abundant for- IriTtisL and to calcification. The typical course of “f mnvLis in man is chronic, patients dying as the result of ^ rHC of ii^ortant organs, of exhaustion from prolonged implication ot mp , ^ust be borne in mind, suppuration, or^^fio^_^^^^y^_^d^^ correspondence with individual ^°TsTncracy and constitutional conditions, and in some persons a ifpfpctive resistance on the part of the tissues aUows a rapid in- ^ ^ ei and course in this disease. The morbid process spreads by tot conti^W invading all tissues indifferently 3 secondary em^ bolic dSs may, however, occur, the most common examples of which^are those Observed in the Hver in primary actinomycosis of^the intestinal canal. Cases of so-caUed acute generabsation have been described, but these are probably partly pytemic in natuie. The actinomyces itself is not pyogemc in the same sense as the various suppuration organisms, since it may exist for long Cretans suc^h as the brain (Bollinger) without inducing „ When developing actively, however, it produces local necrosis of the tissue in whidi it is embedded and of the small-ceUed inflammatory infiltration surrounding it, and in this way a fluid more or less resembling true pus is furnished. Deposits in the alimentary and respiratory tracts are necessardy exposed also to nation, and in these cases abundant suppuration, mduced by the ordinary pyogenic organisms, often occurs. The disease does no extend by the lymphatic system 3 and although the glands have been occasionally noted to be enlarged, no growth of actinomyces has ever been observed in them. Mode of infection.—No evidence exists of the direct transfer- ence of this disease from animals to man, or from man to man. Both men and animals appear to be infected from the same source and m the same manner. The most common seat of infection is the mouth, the alimentary tract, some of its dependences, or the respiratory passages. Cases of external infection are rare, but a small number has been placed on record. The discovery of a grain of barley in an abscess of the back secondary to a primary deposit in the oeso- phagus (Soltmann) led to the inference that the carrier of infecuion might exist in grains of corn or barley, or in particles of straw of a like nature. In five carefully examined cases in man, bodies of this nature were discovered by Bostrom in primary actinomycotic deposits, and the extension of the process was shown to follow the line in Avhich the grain had travelled. Bostrom strengthens the theory of thi.s mode of infection by the following arguments: In thirty-two cases of bovine actinomycosis, particles of straw and grain were found embedded in the mucous membrane between the teeth and gums and in the tongue 3 and further examination of the records of eighty-four published cases of actinomycosis in man showed that the disease commenced in 77 per cent, during the months August to January inclusive : in fact, during the months in