GAUSms OF FRAG TURFS. 72r. parts, is far more liable to injury than a trunk bone ; the trunk, again, is more difficult to protect, and is loss sedulously protected than the head. A limb bone in the line along which force travels towards the centre is more liable to fracture than one not so placed—the radius is more often broken than the ulna, and the tibia than the fibula j though it is true that, in the latter instance, after the tibia has yielded, the fibula also often breaks, and that a twist of the foot, by diverting the line of force, may lead to a fracture of the fibula alone. The bones of the fore-arm and hand, leg and foot are more exposed to direct injury than are the proximal portions of limbs. (2) Form.—A straight column resists crushing more strongly than a cuiwed one, and all long bones are curved. Their structure becomes specially weak when an angle is developed, as between the neck and shaft of the femur. The longer and more horizontal the neck, the more easily does it break under longitudinal strain. (3) Strength and elasticity.—Bones vary greatly in those properties which enable them to resist violence. The ribs, fibula, and clavicle are the most elastic, i.e. they maybe bent farthest without breaking, and with subsequent perfect recovery of their form. The humerus among long bones and the cancellous bones are least elastic. The percentage composition of fully-formed bone, compact or can- cellous, seems to be practically the same at different ages, and in the two sexes. Given the same form and size, greater weight means greater strength. Increase in length without proportionate increase in girth and weight, implies relative weakness. We see this in the great frequency of fractures between two and four years, when falls are common, and the length of the limb bones is greater in proportion to their girth than at any other period of life. So long as a bone is growing actively, it is relatively more vascular and, therefore, more porous and weaker than siibsequently. On the other hand, in old age the bones undergo eccentric atrophy as the strain upon them lessens. Between the periods of growth and degeneration, when their strength is most needed, the bones are at their strongest. In spite of this, accoi’ding to Bruns, 43-8 per cent, of all fractures occur between 30 and 60, while 26‘1 per cent, occur between 1 and 30, and 29-8 per cent, between 60 and 90. When the bones of a limb are arranged to form a single rod, this naturally breaks at its weakest point, e.g. the clavicle ; but in many falls on the hand the limb is bent so that the brunt of the violence is borne by the more distal bones, especially the radius. Although we have now many careful measurements of the resisting power of the different bones at various ages to force applied in the long axis of the bone (crushing or tearing), at right angles to it (bending), and at the end of a short lever fixed at right angles to the long axis (torsion), our knowledge of the physics of the skeleton is far too imperfect to enable us to calculate the result of violence transmitted along a more or less bent limb, with all its muscles tense and acting like springs to ward off violence from the centre. Pathological conditions. — These weaken all or certain