sex Hospital Museum.) fusiform aneurysm. 59.T o* r—d%i“: ftiLra":: t danUrs oE Uio sacculated form of tlie disease, although it may happen h,t the ‘"“to™ “"“■■y™ torms by tar the ‘"rger part S tU tumour The special features o£ each of these forms of the disease must now be separately considered. 1. Fusiform Aneurysm. Fusiform aneurysm is a dilatation in all directions of the entire circumference of an artery j the vessel is elongated as well as enlarged laterally ; the_ enlarge- ment may be uniform or irregular. This form of the disease is espe- cially met with in the arch of the aorta, but it also occurs in the descending aorta, the iliac, fe- moral, and, rarely, in the popliteal arteries, and in the innominate, common carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries—in the largest arteries in fact. Two or more such dilatations may be met with on the same trunk. The sac of such an aneurysm is formed of all three coats of the artery, and is, as a rule, thicker than the arterial wall; this fact constitutes the important patho- logical distinction of fusiform aneurysm, and explains its slow course and its general benign character as compared with sac- _ culated aneurysm. The outer coat of the vessel is ^ thickened, often considerably, with new fibrous tissue j the middle coat is stretched, and the bundles of muscular fibres are thinned and separated, and ultimately undergo fatty degeneration and di.s- appear. The inner coat is always thickened, uneven, and shows well-marked signs of atheroma, calcareous plates are often found in the wall of the aneurysm (Fig. 168). As a rule, the contents of a fusiform aneurysm are solely fluid blood, with, at most, shreds of clot adhering to rough portions of the interior ; but extensive clots may be found, and spontaneous Oure has been brought about by the total occlusion of the vessel (Fig. 169). The most important change that takes place in a fusilorm aneurysm is when some especially diseased part of its wall yields and forms a sacculated aneurysm, for such a sac has a tendency to rapid growth, to exert serious pressure on surrounding pai’ts, and to rupture (Fig. 172), If the disease involves the part of the aorta nearest to the heart, Fig. 168.—Fusiform or Tubu- lar Aneurysm of the as- cending part of the Arch of the Aorta, with Cal- careous Plates in the Wall of the Aneurysm. (Middle-