904 DISEASES OF BONES. value in osteitis deformans, either for the relief of pain or to check the progress of the disease. There is no particular line of treatment to recommend other than what common sense would dictate for each special case. ACROMEGALY. This is a name given by M. Marie* to a disease which is now recognised as having special characteristic features, but for svhich no definite pathological cause has as yet been discovered. Symptoms.—Acromegaly may make its appearance at almost any period of life, but is perhaps most frequent in the young adult. It commences so insidiously that the patient is unable to give any exact account of its origin, his friends often being the first to notice the change in his appearance. Enlargement of the hands and feet, which is chiefly due to hyper- trophy of the soft parts, is the most characteristic symptom of this curious afiection. The face is elongated and de- formed, from the increased size of the facial bones, especially the upper and lower jaw, the latter being the most ob- vious, from its projection forwards and increased vertical depth at the chin. The superciliary ridges are also more promi- nent, producing a frowning aspect; the soft parts are more bulky, especially in the lower lip; but the nose, ears, and eyelids are all noticeably thick and heavy- looking. The general effect of the ap- pearance is that of a dull, heavy, coarse- leatured person. The muscular develop- ment is good, and in some cases seems to be above the average till quite late in the disease, so that the patient is able to con- tinue his or her occupation, unless the deformity of hands or feet is in any way a, hindrance in the work they may have to do. The mental functions are, as a rule, unimpaired, afthough persistent headache and gradually mcreasing blindness have been noticed in some of the cases. The progress of the disease is very slow, and is shown by a gradual loss ot muscular power, so tliat the body is no longer held erect, the spine becoming kyphotic or scoliotic. The bones of the extremities trom the peripliery towards the trunk gradually increase in size, tlie * Beuw do Med., April, 1886. Fig. 847. —Osteitis Deformans. Bones of right fore-arm, from (tase shown in Figs. 345, 346. The radius is increased in length and enlarged.