HEP AIR OF FRACTURE. 759 but most think that proliferating connective tissue corpuscles take their share. The vessels running through the cell-mass beneath the raised periosteum, though freely intercommunicating, natui’ally run more or less vertical to the bone (Fig. 222). The granulation tissue becomes more densely cellular and firmer, fluid being absox’bed. Blood-clot is infiltrated and decolorised by removal of its pigment; except as a framework into which cells can wander, clot takes no part in the repair, and soon disappears. In the angle between the raised periosteum and the bone—the point of least irritation—there early become visible, both in longi- tudinal and transverse sections, slight, faintly-granular opacities, due to deposit of Lime salts; they include cells ir^ their substance, and are usually of needle-like form; from their bases on the bone their points rise more or less vertically, and between each pair is a vessel surrounded by cells. Evidently the deposit of lime salts occurs midway between two vessels, and the needles are sections of the walls of calcareous tubes which lengthen, branch- ing as the vessels branch, and form- ing a very open trelliswork (Fig. 223). Bundles of osteogenic fibres develop, either in a ground substance, secreted by the cells which cluster round the calcareous needles, or in portions of the bodies of the cells themselves, and seem to serve as guides for the further deposit of salts. On the wall of each tube the peripheral cells, which have become large and angular, like osteoblasts, arrange themselves in a layer, and the cen- tral vessel is covered with an epithelioid layer. The osteoblasts at once begin to lay down lamellm of true bone, some osteoblasts being included between them as bone-cells. Haversian systems are thus developed, the callus becomes truly bony, and as the space round the central vessel becomes constricted, the bone becomes more and more dense. The dark granular calcified portions are soon absorbed and replaced by bone. Meanwhile the Haversian canals of the frag- ments have been enlarged to a considerable extent by the ordinary process of erosion; when this ceases, osteoblasts deposit layers of bone here also, continuous with those in the callus, and thus absolute continuity is established. This is direct ossification of callus, and it seems to be the only mode followed in the union of compound fractures in man. But in simple fractures, according to some observers, the callus becomes cartilaginous. Judging from specimens derived from Fig. 222.—A longitudinal Section of Injected external Callus from a Rabbit’s Tibia in the vicinity of a Fractm-e five days old. x 20. a. Callus with vessels running more or leas vertically to those in the bone, 6. (Billroth.)