XX. SYPHILIS. By JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, Jii., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the London Hospital; Surgeon to the Lock Hospital. Syphilis is a disease confined to the human subject^but met with in all pai’ts of the globe, due to the entrance of a virus (the nature of which is not yet conclusively proved) into the system, either by direct inoculation or by inheritance—i.e. transmission from either father or mother to their child. In some points it resembles a specific or exanthem fever, but the stages are comparatively very protracted, and its remote effects far more persistent and important. There is a certain amount of evidence to point to the virus of syphilis being a very small bacillus, but we cannot at present go beyond this vague statement, and even on this point the results of various investigators have been either negative or very doubtful. {See page 37.) ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. The stages of syphilis. — We will first consider acquired syphiHs, leaving till later any notice of the symptoms of the con- genital or inherited disease. After inoculation (generally by venereal contact, but also in a host of other ways) a variable period of incubation occurs before the primary sore or chancre appears. By the end of two, three, or four weaks the characters of the chancre are usually such as to suggest the strongest suspicion of syphilitic infection to a skilled observer : at this date the nearest lymphatic glands become enlarged. The so-called primary stage dates from inoculation up to the appear- ance of various symmetrical affections, which indicate that the poison is pervading the whole system. Chief of these are eruptions on the skin and mucous membrane of the throat, bone and joint pains, general enlargement of lymphatic glands, and thinning of the hair. With the earliest of these symptoms (usually at the end of six to eight weeks from the date of contagion) begins the second- ary stage, which may roughly be said to last for two years. During N Fig. 78.—Chancre o£ Penis, with Herpes of Glands.