DIAGNOSIS. 163 of the head and extremities were the commonest modes of infection in these cases. Tlie prognosis of erysipelas depends, therefore, to some extent, upon its degree. The age of the patient is also an important con- sideration in this as in otlier diseases of similar kind. Infants and aged people are very apt to succumb. In the aged even simple cutaneous erysipelas is dangerous. Amongst infants a variety of erysipelas, called erysipelas neonatorum, sometimes attacks the skin of the abdomen during the separation of the remains of the umbilical cord. Suppuration and gangrene of the skin often occur. Ex'y- sipelas neonatorum is sometimes complicated by phlebitis of the umbilical vein. It is met with where puerperal fever, puerperal pyremia, and puerperal septicaemia are prevalent. Erysipelas is an occasional sequela of vaccination. The stx’epto- coccus of erysipelas has been found in impure vaccination lymph (Copeman). Defects of the kidneys, heart, or lungs, add to the gravity of an attack, as do also habits of intemperance. It is obvious, therefore, that the condition of the great organs should always be investigated, and the habits of the patient inquired into. Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis of cutaneous erysipelas is sometimes exceedingly difficult. From simple erythema it depends upon both the constitutional symptoms and ujxon the local appear- ances. In simple erythema there is no rigor or high temperature, nor acceleration of the pulse and respirations, vomiting is infrequent, and the redness has no board-like margin; vesicles and bulhe are wanting, and the lymphatic glands or vessels are not affected. An acute attack of herpes is sometimes hard to tell from erysipelas. Both may be accompanied by constitutional symptoms, and in both there is redness and vesication of the skin, with enlargement of lymphatic glands. However, in herpes both the local and general symptoms are less severe, and the eruption is usually confined to the distribution of certain nerves, and does not cross the middle line of the body. Erysipelas might also be confused with acute eczema or with acute dermatitis. The latter are sometimes caused by the chemicals used for the disinfection of the skin before operations, or by those contained in dressings. Here, again, the slightness of the constitutional symptoms and the local characters, especially the presence of eczematous papules, crusts, and vesicles, ought to make the diagnosis easy. The eaily stages of inflammatory wound gan- grene are not unlike erysipelas. In acute spreading traumatic gangrene there is also redness and swelling of the skin, with the formation of bullai. But in this most fatal disease there is more profound constitutional disturbance; the bullm contain blood-stained serum, and there is emphysematous crackling in the subcutaneous tissues. Pathology.—After death from erysipelas the post-mortem appear- ances are similar to those in other infective diseases. The redness of the skin disappears after death, but the desquamation, vesicles, or bulliE remain. There is also some swelling and oedema of the cutis G 2 ’