626 ANEURYSM. principles that should guide the surgeon in choosing the course to follow. (1) In external aneurysm, rest with elevation of the part and moderate pressure with a bandage should first be tried. If not quickly successful, the most suitable form of compression for the particular case should be given a careful trial ; if success is not attained, the attempt should not be prolonged, but proximal ligature should be performed. The line of conduct to be pursued, when liga- ture fails or is attended with accident, has already been stated (page 621). This may be taken as the general routine plan to be followed, which may have to be modified under certain special conditions, some of which are stated below in the comparison between com- pression and ligature, and others are as follow :— (a) If the aneurysm is rapidly enlarging, or if blood is leaking from the sac into the tissues, as shown by enlargement of the tumour with diminution of the pulsation in it, the proximal ligature should be practised without any delay. (b) If the sac of the aneurysm has given way, but the blood is not widely extravasated, being still bound in by a spurious sac, the patient should be subjected to operation at once. The vessels having been emptied, and controlled by Esmarch’s bandage and tourniquet, an attempt may be made to excise the aneurysm, turning out all extravasated blood, and, of course, ligaturing every divided artery. Failing this, amputation must be performed above the aneurysm. (c) In cases of subcutaneous rupture of the aneurysm immediate amputation above the aneurysm is the only possible resource. (d) Where inflammation around the sac has occurred, the artery should be at once tied on the proximal side. This relieves the tension, and lessens the blood supply to the inflamed part. If this does not check the inflammation, a free incision should be made down to the outer surface of the sac to set free the inflammatory and infective products. The patient must then be watched continuously, and at the first sign of haemorrhage the artery controlled by a tour- niquet. An attempt should then be made to excise the sac. If this fails, the limb must be amputated above the tumour. (e) Where suppui'ation has already occurred, the pus must be liberated at once by a free incision and thorough antiseptic irriga- tion of the inflamed tissues practised. The patient must be watched, and haemorrhage dealt with as in the last case. (y) In varicose aneurysm the arteries and veins communicating with the sac must all be tied close to the sac. ((/) In aneurysm close to the trunk, where the proximal ligature cannot be employed, the choice lies between distal ligature, excision of the sac, and amputation, and they should be chosen in that order. The complete distal ligature should be preferred to the partial. It should be performed as near the disease as is compatible with the integrity of the sac, and if it fail, excision may be practised if the other circumstances are very favoiirable. Galvano-puncture or.