DISEASES OF JOINTS. nos Til the first instance an oval flap is formed, tlie lower curved end of which crosses the middle of the patellar ligament, the two lateral incisions being placed well back, and running to a variable height upwards. But in those cases in which only a moderate amount of synovial disease is present, two curved incisions reaching from the edge of the patellar ligament on either side upwards on the sides of the joint will give very free access to the synovial pouches, without dividing the ligamentum patellae or the lateral ligaments. And should it prove possible in some cases thus to remove all the diseased synovial mem- brane through these lateral openings, there is nothing to prevent the joint being as strong as before. Only the capsule has been divided. Again, it may be found necessary in some cases to secure very free access to all parts of the articulation, while aiming at the preservation of all its movements. Perhaps the best way of achieving this object is to make a transverse incision through the soft parts across the centre of the patella, and then saw through the latter in the same line. If the knee is now flexed it is very widely exposed, but if there is any difficulty in seeing its deeper parts, the single transverse cut may be combined with two vertical lateral ones, forming an H-shaped opening. In this way two quadrilateral flaps are formed, one of which can be turned up, and the other down, thus exposing the whole joint in the fullest manner. When the removal of the diseased tissue is complete, the two flaps are replaced, and the surfaces of the divided patella are brought into accurate apposition and sutured firmly with wire. In this case, if the whole operation has been perfectly aseptic, and the wound heals by first in- tention, the strength and movements of the joint are left unimpaired. By any of these means access to the joint sufficiently free for the removal of any or all diseased tissue can be secured. The general measures adopted by the author in carrying out such operations are practically the same as those described in dealing with the hip. From the time the joint is opened until all diseased material is removed, and it is closed again, a stream of sterilised hot water is kept playing over the field of action at high pressure. This carries away all infective debris, checks oozing, and enables the sur- geon to see clearly what is diseased tissue and what is sound. When all morbid material—whether synovial or osseous—has been removed by careful dissection with the knife, assisted by the scissors and flushing gouge (Fig. 453), the cavity is filled with small sponges, the stitches are inserted in the skin and soft parts with the greatest care as to accuracy of adjustment. Then, before they are tied the sponges are removed, and the joint receives a final washing out with hot water, all clots being thus cleared out. The surfaces are then dried carefully and covered with iodoform emulsion, and then the stitches are secured without leaving any room for drainage. An antiseptic wool dressing put on very thick, and firmly bandaged to prevent oozing inteimally, completes the ojieration. Tlie limb should then be secured upon a straight splint, and be kept in an elevated