TUMOURS OF BONE. 91T tlie surgeon directs his attention. As a rule, tlie more malignant a tumour^the more rapidly it grows. The increase in size in the more innocent tumours may be measured by years ; whereas m the malignant cases a few weeks or months may suffice to see a tumour double its original size. The rate of growth ainongst the sarcomata of bone varies considerably. The subperiosteal increase more rapidly than the endosteal, and these again vary amongst themselves according to their different degrees of malignancy. Some opinion to prognosis after operation may therefore be formed from this as rate of growth before removal. 'I'o distinguish between the central and iwriflieral sarcomata of bone is the next most important point in the diagnosis and conse- quent treatment. The central tumours are spherical in outline, wliilst the periosteal are long and fusiform in the shaft and pyriform at the extremities of a bone, with the base or broader part directed towards the articulation. This gradual diffusion along the shaft of a long bone, with infiltration of the surrounding tissues, is very cha- racteristic of a periosteal sarcoma, which may be at first localised on one side only of a bone. The central or endosteal sarcoma has a distinct bony capsule or plates of bone on its surface, and if the parts beneatli are soft and yielding, will often give on pressure a curious I'ustling sensation or egg-shell crackling. The periosteal tumour, on the other hand, will be smooth or tuberous on the surface, with no bony plates, but a hard and unyielding centre. Pulsation is of frequent occurrence in the central tumours of the long bones, especially in the articular extremities. It is also found in some of the multiple periosteal sarcomata of the flat bones. Pul- sation over a .small area of the upper end of the tibia was in one instance under the writer’s observation the only symptom present of an endosteal sarcoma. There was no swelling and no expansion of bone. When submitted to operation, the interior of the head of the tibia was found to be replaced by a soft, almost diffluent, marrow- coloured growth, which on microscopical examination proved to be a "iant-celled sarcoma. O Spontaneous fracture may occur in either the central or peri- pheral sarcomata; in the latter it depends upon the occurrence of an extension of the growth through the Haversian canals to the medulla. Occasionally it has been the first indication of the disease, when the tumour has their grown with very great rapidity. Pain is almost always a prominent symptom, and is often the means by which the patient’s attention is drawn to the presence of a local swelling. It is sometimes so severe as to induce the patient to submit to what might on other grounds be considered as an operation of doubtful utility. On the other hand, it may bo entirely absent in a central myeloid sarcoma. The size to which a sarcoma of bone may grow varies enormouslv, and no opinion as to its nature can be formed from this circum- stance alone. In one case, whilst still quite small, general systemic infection may have already taken place, whilst in another the