810 INJURIES OF BONES. of the bone falls aiicl is drawn inwards. Through a thin covering a groove may bo felt between the process and its former site, and crepitus will be detected on pressing upon the fragment, while ab- ducting and rotating the shaft; voluntary abduction (deltoid) is pos- sible, but rotation out (infra-spinatus and teres minor) is impossible. Treatment.—The best result will be given by keeping the arm abducted on a Middledorpf’s triangle or a large cushion; or by pinning the process in position. Union, if it occurs, is bony. (3)" The aiiatoniicaJ nech.—A fracture separating the head from the tuberosities is rare, and appears to be always due to direct violence, e.g. heavy falls upon the shoulder, generally in people beyond mid-life. The separated head may remain loose within the caj)sule, displaced in an}' direction with regard to the shaft: it may even be rotated so that its cartilage- covered surface rests against the broken surface of the shaft. The head may be im- pacted into the upper end of the shaft, split- ting it and separating from it one or both tuberosities—though all are generally held together by capsule and tendons. Lastly, the head may be dis- Fig. 246 —Fracture of the great Tuterosity of the Humerus rom direct violence; the supra- and infra-spinatus and teres ninor are attached to the fragment. The capsule of the dionlder is sound below. (University College Museum, STo. 192.) located downwards, or downwards and in- wards, through a rent in the capsule into tlie o-v-illfi. • lifire it mav be found in front of the axillary edge of the scapula, as low as the third rib, or near the coracoid process, free or, in old cases, fixed by bone to neighbouring bone ; perhaps it may be eroded even to dis- If "swelling does not obscure it, there will probably be some flattening, posteriorly and externally, with proportionate prominence of the acromion and tension of the deltoid (these signs are best marked when the head is dislocated); tlie Jiumerus hangs vertical, and the elbow is close to the side. It is said that there may be slight lengthening from failure of injured muscles to hold up the bone; otherwise, displacement upwards (i in. or less) and mTv be expected from the action of the longitudinal muscles and o the^rotators and adductors, aided by the original violence. I\Io^ ement all directions is free, but very painful, and is often accompanied in