BJSLOGATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 965 is next to impossible to keep the clavicle in permanent position. The extreme upward movements of the arm will be subsequently- impeded ; otherwise, a very useful joint will result, should the dis- location remain unreduced. The main indications are to keep the scapula rniRsd and ^le clavicle" depressed^ Several kinds of apparatus have been advised (Fig. 378). I have seen good results in this dislocation by setting the shoulder in a firm plaster-of- Paris spica, a sponge-pad being fixed over the outer third of~Ehe clavicle. Should great inconvenience arise from an unreduced dis- location of this nature, there could be no serious objection_to refresh- ing the joint surfaces and wiring them together. Division of the trapezius, which pulls the bone upwards, is a severe measure; and bandaging the head towards the affected side to relax this muscle cannot long be tolerated. Fig. 378.—Tracy’s Apparatus for displaced Acromial End of Clavicle. Dislocation oj t/ie acromial end of the clavicle downwards.— The acromion process projects markedly, and on tracing the clavicle outwards, a marked hollow will be detected where its acromial end normally lies. The patient cannot raise the arm, but the surgeon can move it backwards and forwards. The displacement is reduced by drawing the shoulders ba^ikwards. and then bandaging the arm and scapula to the side. Simultaneous dislocation of tlie clavicle at both cuds—This accident is one of the curiosities of this part of surgical literature, and is generally produced by extreme violence. The sternal end is thrown forwards, the acromial backwards. Hulke treated a case of this nature by dra-wing the shoulders well back- wards, and moulding a guttapercha splint on the parts, to prevent re-displacement. Displacement of the scapula.—In weakly individuals the low§r_angle and vertebral border of the scapula not infrequently projfifit_uliduIy. A.t the same time, the movements of the arm are well performed, and there is no sign of muscular paralysis. In the special displacement we are considering, the lower angle of the scapula projects in a very unsightly manner from the back of the