HEALING BY GRANULATION. 205 on till. by-and-by the wound is completely healed, and we have a scar which is considerably smaller in area than the original wound. While healing is going on, one can easily distinguish two or three layers around the central gran\dations, the outer layer being a white riiiw, where there are considerable masses of epithelium which have become macerated by the discharge ; inside this a bluish layer, where there is a moderate thickness of epithelium ; and the innermost layer of all being a pink layer, where there are only one or two strata of epithelial cells through which the red granulations show (Fig. 38). This pink layer generally indicates that healing has occurred^ within quite a recent period, usually within 24 or 48 hours, and it is of Fig. 38. — Healing Edge of a "Wound, showing the Epi- thelium spread- ing over the sur- face. The thin layer of epithe- lium of the re- cently healed part is well seen. great import- ance as indi- cating whether the process is actively going on or not. When the scar is first formed it is red on account of the large num- ber of new vessels which have been formed in the granulation tis- sue, but as time goes on it be- comes paler, and ultimately is whiter than the surrounding skin, because the new vessels have become compressed and disappear as the result of the contraction of the fibrous tissue (Fig. 39). 3. Healing by union of granulations.—About the beginning of the century it was very much the fashion in some quarters not to attempt in any circumstances to obtain union by first intention, on account of the very serious consequences that so commonly followed the occurrence of suppuration in the deeper parts of wounds, the skin edges of which had been brought together. Hence the treatment often adopted was to introduce charpie or other dressing between the edges of the wound till granulation had completely occurred, and then, after washing the pus away, the two surfaces were allowed to come into contact, and immediate union often occurred over a large area. In this case the two granulating sur- faces protect one another from further irritation, a slight amount of lymph is poured out after the washing of the wound, and then union occurs between the granulating surfaces at once, the cells present