621 treatment of aneurysm. develop. If th’J gangrene ensues, the bloodless part remains cold and insensible, shrivels, dries, and mummifies. (5) Treatment after ligature of the artery.—Immediately after li-i-ature the limb, covered up with a thick layer of cotton wool, should be slightly raised and supported evenly on pillows. liot bottles may be placed in the bed, but not in contact with the limb; the aneurysm should not be examined or disturbed. When the re- establishment of the circulation and the cure of the aneurysm are accomplished, these precautions may be gradually and carefully dispensed with. Should pulsation be noticed after a short time, the .surgeon must have patience, as in great probability it will pass of! But if it persists, or even increases, and it is evident that the operation has failed to cure the aneurysm, compression of the main artery with gentle pressure upon the tumour should be tried, and if the aneurysm is in the ham, flexion is very likely to succeed. If this fails, the artery should be tied nearer the sac, if possible, in such a place that no large branch shall intervene between the second ligature and the sac j should this fail or be impracticable, the aneu- rysm should be excised. If the sac remains full of fluid blood, but pulseless, it should be excised. If moist gangrene supervenes amputation above the aneurysm should be performed at once; but if the gangrene be “dry ” a line of demarcation should be awaited, and time given for the full re- establishment of the circulation before any operation is done, and then the surgeon should content himself with either removing the dead part, or only so much more as will permit of the formation of a good stump. If the ligature fails by slipping or premature softening and absorption, the wound should be opened up, and a second one applied immediately above the position of the first. If secondary haemorrhage occurs, religature of the artery should be practised if simple pressure fails to arrest it, and if that does not succeed, amputation above the aneurysm at the level of the ligature must be performed. (See also page 548.) When the sac suppurates, the best treatment to pui’sue is open to question. When suppuration is only threatening, free antiseptic incision may succeed in cutting short the inflammation. When the mischief is more advanced, the choice lies between excision of the sac and amputation ; where haemorrhage has already occurred, where the aneurysm is large or deeply-placed, or the inflammation widely- extending, amputation is certainly indicated. Fig. ISl.—Diagram illustrating the Mode of appljing Distal Ligature for Aneu- rysms at the Hoot of the Neck. The ligature on left common carotid artery. A, is Brasdor's operation; ligature of right carotid and subclavian arteries, nando, for innomi- nate aneurysm is Wardrop’s operation.