1103 KNEE JOINT DISEASE. active 1 movement must be begun, and should not bo put off too affected, inasmuch as the growth of the_ bones is less active as time woes on, while the functions of the synovial membrane remain during life. But starting in any of the situations mentioned, the disease may spread to any of the other structures. When the tubercle is primary in the synovial membrane it shows itself first m the subendothelial structures, as a rule (Fig. 431), and from this spreads either towards the surface of the joint or towards the external parts. Commencing in the bones, it is found either under the encrusting cartilage or at the junction of epiphysis and diaphysis, where growth is most active. From this it may spread to any or all the surfaces of the joint, or work its way to the skin, without in any way involving the articulation. This latter point should never be lost sight of, for it is a grave mistake to conclude that because there are extensive tuberculous abscesses round the knee, with perhaps several sinuses, the surfaces of the joint are necessarily involved. If this conclusion be come to in any given case, the joint will pro- bably be opened freely as though for excision, and if it then be found that the abscesses could have been cleaned out and the foci of disease removed without interfering with any of the surfaces or functions of the part, it will be seen tliat an unnecessary and possibly injurious operation has been done. ImlicatioMS.—In all cases, then, it is a matter of the greatest importance to determine at what spot the tuberculous disease has started, and in what direction it is extending. The question is, can this be done 1 In some measure it can, but only to a limited extent at present. In the first place it must be remembered that disease commenc- mg in the growing parts of the bones is an affection of early life. The older the patient the less probable is it that the tuberculous infection has begun in the bones. Again, disease of the synovial membrane is more likely to be found among the more mature patients, though by no means limited to them. Bearing these points in mind, we may study the symptoms of