XXXI. DISEASES OF THE JAWS. By J. bland SUTTON, F.K.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital; Examiner in Surgery, Univei'sity of Durham. In this section it will be convenient not only to consider diseases of the jaws, but also the affections of those structures so closely associated with them, namely, the gums and teeth. Diseases of the gums.—The muco-periosteum in immediate relation with the alveolar borders of the jaws is liable to a variety of diseases. Overgrowth.—This affection, often spoken of as “ hyper- ti’ophy,” consists of a general increase in thickness of the gums, which in some cases is so marked as almost to obscure the teeth. The mucous membrane, in severe examples, forms a vascular fold on the lingual and labial aspects of the teeth, especially the incisors and canines. It occurs in children, but the extreme cases are met with in young adults. The cause is quite obscure. Treatment.—Scarification with a scalpel or Paquelin’s cautery after the parts have been cocainised. When the gum hangs in pendulous flaps, the redundant tissue may be excised. I.ead staining—In chronic pliunbism a blue line exists at the dental margins of the gums, due to a deposit of sulphide of lead. The metal, contained in the blood as a soluble salt, combines with the sulphur of the sulphuretted hydrogen set free by decomposition of food particles in the mouth. Treatment.—The general treatment is to determine the cause of the plurabism, and administer iodide of potassium with the object of dissolving the lead deposited in the tissues. Quinine and iron are useful. Local treatment, such as the removal or stopping of carious teeth and the regular use of the toothbrush, is indicated. Spongj’' gums.—The gums are liable to become swollen and engorged from a variety of causes, general as well as local. Among the more imjDortant general causes must be included scurvy, svphilis, and chronic mercurialism. Local causes are stomatitis and alveolar abscess. Spongy gums are often very tender, mastication being a distress- ing process ; they bleed freely and exhale a foetid odour. Treatment.—Remove the cause; improve the general health by