916 DISEASES OF BONES. On the other l)and, the myeloid sarcomata so seldom return after removal that they may almost be looked upon as benign growths. But it is necessary here to state that such a tumour for so favourable a prognosis must not only have a few giant cells, but must be mainlv composed of such cells to the exclusion of others. The periosteal spindle-celled sarcoma is pi’obably the most malignant, and, speaking in general terms, the periosteal are all rather more malignant than the central sarco- mata. The favourite seat of both central and peripheral sarcomata, if we exclude the jaws, which are con- sidered in a separate article (see pages 932 and 938), is the articular extremities of the long bones; and some bones and some epiphyses are more likely to be attacked than others. For example: the bones of the lower extremities are more frequently attacked than those of the upper, probably on account of their greater liability to injury j and the lower end of the femur and upper end of the tibia are more commonly affected than the other ex- tremities of these same bones, probably for the same i-eason that the knees are moi’e often exjiosed to trivial injuries than any other parts of the lower limbs. The age at which the sarcomata of bone most commonly arise is that of the young adult, but no age can be said to be exempt The central tumours are more frequent in mid-life, and the subperiosteal in young children, if any distinction be made between Fig. 857.—Subperiosteal epindle-celled Sarcoma of tbe lower End of Femur. Posteriorly, tbe growth has exceeded sub- periosteal limits. It has also invaded the medullary canal, and pro.jected into the joint. From a gii'l under the writer’s care iu 1886, aged 17, who was alive and well eight years after amputation. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 637.) the two as to this point of age. Local signiis aii€l diagnosis.—The duration of the disease before coming under observation, and the rapidity with which tlie tumour has increased, are the first and most important points to whicli