833 FBACTUR1C8 OF TEE PELVIS. are by far the more serious, and are almost always due to forcible compression, as when a heavy weight falls upon a man or his pelvis is driven over or crushed between buffers. The results are very various. A fracture of the horizontal pubic ramus and of the pubic arch below it is common on one or both sides (Fig. 272), and this is often accompanied by a fracture through the lateral mass of the sacrum, or through the ilium on the same side (double vertical fracture) more or less parallel and close to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. This articulation may be torn open; so, too, may the symphysis—by direct violence, forcible abduction of the thighs, and even by the wedge action of the foetal head. The pubic symphysis maybe driven back; the sacrum is very rarely displaced forwards ; one hip-bone may fall back and out, or be drawn upwards; the head of the femur is very rarely driven against the acetabulum with such violence as to split the hip-bone into pieces ; it may project into the pelvic cavity. The less serious class is made up of fractures of the ilium above the ilio-pubic line, of the crest, the anterior spine, the mai’gin of the acetabulum, of the tuber ischii; of transverse fractures of the sacrum and coccyx, and of luxation of the coccyx—all due almost invariably to direct violence. The epiphysis of the crest is said to have been torn off by the abdominal mirscles. These fractures are rarely corn- found through the skin, the force that causes them acting over a wide area. Injuries to internal organs and parts by the fragments consti- tute the chief dangers of these injuries. Rupture of the bladder from the violence causing the fracture, rather than wound by a fragment, occurs occasionally. But the special danger is partial or complete laceration of the subpubic (membranous, sometimes bulbous) urethra by displacement of the fragments of the pubic arch in the I’elatively common anterior vertical fracture. Fixed as this poi’tion of the urethra is, it may be simply kinked; but this is rare. Laceration of the rectum has not infrequently accom- panied fractures and luxations of the sacrum and coccyx. Injuries of the great vessels and nerves are very rare; tlie gluteal artery has generally been the vessel to suffer. An injury of such severity is frequently accompanied by other internal lesions, n B Fig. 272.—A left Hip Bone. The ilium above tlie acetabulum has been aplit off and broken into two pieces by a T-fracture ; the fragments have united with displace- ment. There has been a vertical fracture also of the horizontal ramus of tlie pubis and of the pubic arch. (St. George’s Museum, Scries I., No. 122.) (I’ick.)