11 nABIT AT OF BAGTFBIA. micro-organisms ; all the conditions for the deposition of bacteria on and in these surfaces and cavities are of the most favourable char- acter. The moist skin is exposed to the action of currents of air which cany micro-organisms; the hands are constantly coming in con- tact with all kinds of objects on which bacteria accumulate, whence they may be readily distributed over the surface of the body. The ducts and glands of the skin are all filled with secretions in which bacteria may thrive. The nose and the mouth, with their moist walls and filtering surfaces, keep back an enormous number of micro- organisms taken in with the air-borne dust which we are constantly inhaling; whilst the alimentary canal is frequently, though more intermittently, invaded by numerous species of bacteria, many of which are ingested with our uncooked food. It thus comes about that so many of the organisms at present known have at one time or other been described as present in the mouth. More than one hundred distinct species have been found on the surface of the skin by Welch, who has made a special study of the subject; he says “ all sorts of bacteria are brought . . . into contact with the skin and exposed mucous surfaces, but most of them are en- tirely harmless, and are sooner or later removed. There are, however, certain bacteria which are found so constantly or with such frequency in these situations that we can properly speak of a definite bacterial flora of the skin, of the mouth, of the nose, of the intestine, and of the vagina. Thus, in the epidermis and the glandular appendages of the skin we find regularly a Staphylococcus epidermidis albus ; in the mouth, leptothrix and spirillar forms which will not grow on our ordinary culture media; in the intestine, the Bacillus lactis aerogenes and the Bacillus coli communis ; and in the normal acid secretion of the vagina, the Bacillus vaginalis. Other species are usually mingled with these regular inhabitants, among the most common and im- portant intruders being the pyogenic cocci, and in the mouth also the Micrococcus lanceolatus. When the vagina contains pyogenic cocci, its secretion is generally altered in reaction and appearance. These ordinary surface bacteria cannot in health, when in contact with the skin and mucous membrane, penetrate into the circulation and the internal organs, or, if now and then they do happen to make theii- way into the circulation, they are in health quickly destroyed. The internal organs and fluids are normally entirely free from micro- organisms.” Some of these bacteria, though usually harmless, may under certam conditions give rise to serious lesions, whilst others, pathogenic in every sense, may be said to be lying in wait to eflect ance throu^^ h an abrasion or wound intentionally made. It must be borne in mind that the skin and mucous membrane moist rough surfaces—are not only good collecting grounds, but are also surfaces on which many micro-organisms can develop very readily. In fact, we find, in addition to ordinary non-pathogenic organisms, a considerable number of the pus-forming organisms constantly present on the surface of the skin, whilst in the oral and nasal cavities certain organisms seem to flourish, in spite of tlie fact n’ 2