1066 DISEASES OF JOINTS. usually the result, the bone, too, in many cases, suffering severely. In other cases the capsule ruptures early, and the pus discharges through the skin for a time, and finally the whole process subsides. And from the fact that the movements of the part are restored, we are forced 'to the conclusion that the surfaces have not become extensively diseased. The rapidity with which the pus forms in such instances is remarkable, but the possibilities of repair after it has been evacuated are even more so. Thus in some cases where the affection has run a x’apid course, and the pus has been drained off early, the patient may recover with an excellent joint, with all its movements free, or even with increased .mobility in others, though usually with shortening of the limb from interference with the growth of the epiphysis. As in the syphilitic and tuberculous form of epiphysial disease, this affection will be found most often in those bones in which growth is most rapid. Thus in the series just alluded to, in those which proved fatal, out of twenty-two joints affected in thirteen infants, the hip was the seat of the disease in ten, the knee five times, the shoulder four, the elbow, ankle and sacro-iliac joints each once. Of those nine cases which recovered, out of twelve joints affected there were five knees, three hips, two elbows, one shoulder, and one ankle. This rough estimate in a limited number of cases is probably nearly what would be found to be correct in a larger number. Subacute epijjhysitis is, as a rule, either of tuberculous or syphili- tic origin, and as far as the first variety is concerned, requires no further description here after what has been already said upon the subject above (page 1062). But as regards the syphilitic forms of the affection, a few words may be added to what has been prefaced. This affection has re- cently been studied very closely. The disease may be the result of either hereditary syphibs or that acquired within the first few years of childhood. It consists in an inflammation of the epiphysial lines, chiefly of the long bones, producing separation in many cases of the end from the shaft, demonstrable either before or after death. This may be accompanied by the formation of abscesses with ex- ternal sinuses, or may run its whole course even to great swelling of the ends of the bones and separation with abscess, and yet be re- covered from in a short time. The inflammation is regarded by Wegner as secondary to the calcification, to a large extent, of the epiphysial cartilage, due to the irritation of the syphilitic poison, such calcification going on faster than the usual vascularisation, the earthy matter acting as a foreign body and thus leading to inflam- mation. Ranvier, on the other hand, regards the inflammation as primaiy in the growing line, and produced by the irritant of the sypliilitic poison upon the growing vascular tissue. But one cannot avoid the thought that in these cases, although the pa,tients are undoubtedly infected with syphilis, perhaps the affection of the epiphysis may after all be independent of the specific poison of that disease, and be due simply to one or other of the ordinary septic