SIGNS OF FRACTURE. 749 power), endeavours to use tlie pai’t, details of immediate treatment and mode of transport. If muscular violence seems to have been the cause, and in any case in which the cause seems to have been inadequate, or the pain unusually slight, questions should be put to detect the presence of any cause of spontaneous fracture. It is always worth while asking if the limb or part was normal up to the time of the accident. (1) Pain and tenderness at a point which has been directly injured are of no diagnostic value; but when only indirect violence can have acted upon the part, the presence of sharply-localised pain and tenderness may be of much importance—sometimes, especially in fractures of ribs and fibula, they are the only symptoms which render the existence of a fracture probable. Pain is complained of ; tenderness may be discovered by palpation, by percussion, or by moving the fragments on one another, direct pressure on the painful area being avoided. If, after a wrench of the ankle, the patient complains of pain three inches above the external malleolus, and it is found that pressing the two leg bones together at the middle of the leg increases pain at the suspected point, there is good reason to fear that a fracture has been sustained. Similarly, pain elicited at one point in a rib by pressure on another sufficiently removed is often of value. Pain and tenderness may be astonishingly slight, or even absent, without evident reason. Their absence is character- istic of tabetic fractures. (2) L.OSS of power, more or less complete, naturally results when a part is deprived of its rigid support. The impairment of function is least marked when the fracture does not destroy the con- tinuity of the weight-bearing portion of the bone, when a certain continuity is re-established by impaction, when only one—and that the least important—of two parallel bones is broken, and when a strong ligament serves as a point (Rappui for the lower fragment, as in certain intracapsular fractures of the femur, or. when the fragments are held together by untorn periosteal and fibrous coverings (patella, olecranon). In some of the above cases loss of power is very slight; on the other hand, a severe contusion or other painful injury of a part, without fracture, may produce absolute helplessness— so impairment of function is not a sign of first importance. (3) Dcfoviiiity may be due to swelling from extravasation, inflammatory or reparative changes, or to displacement of the fragments. It is detected by inspection, measurement, and palpation. Deformity from early swelling may be localised or diftuse, super- ficial or deep. This is of no diagnostic value as a sign of fracture if the part have been directly injured; it is of much value in opposite circumstances, coupled with circumscribed pain and tenderness. The detection of a “callus tumour” {deformity from late swelling) is most important when an examination is made some time after an accident to determine whether a bone has been fractured. Deformity from displacement may at once strike the eye, or careful and repeated measurement and palpation may be required.