522 INJUBJE8 OF BLOOD-VESSELS. which a catgut ligature conveyed the infection of antlirax. In its dry state it is too rigid to knot securely, while if soaked in warm water or the serum of a wound it swells up, becomes soft, pulpy, and useless For surgical pur[)oses, therefore, it must be specially pre- pared with a view of making it first aseptic, and then sufficiently supple to tie easily and securely without, at the same time, becoming too readily absorbable. The following methods of preparing catgut for surgeons’ use have been recommended;— (1) Lister’s original method was to soak loose hanks of catgut for at least two months—the longer the better—in an emulsion of one part of crystallised carbolic acid deliquesced by water, in five parts of olive oil. The catgut thus prepared may be kept in the same emulsion, from which the water gradually separates, or in simple carbolic oil 20 per cent., or in corrosive sublimate and glycerine 1 in 500. (2) Catgut wound on a reel of some kind is soaked for forty- eight hours in a 5 per cent, watery solution of pure carbolic acid, to which chromic acid is added in the proportion of 1 in 4,000; the weight of catgut must equal that of the carbolic acid in the solution. The catgut may be kept dried, and must then be soaked in carbolic solution 5 per cent, for half-an-hour before being used; or after it has been carefully dried, it may be kept in carbolic oil 20 per cent, or corrosive sublimate and glycerine 1 m 1,000. (3) A third plan is as follows:—Five parts of catgut on the stretch is immersed for twelve hours in a solution of 1 part of chromic acid in 100 parts of distilled water. It is then partly dried by wiping it with a clean cloth, and placed for twelve hours in 100 parts of sulphurous acid. The catgut is now dried and kept dry. Before being used, it is placed for fifteen minutes in carbolic acid solution 5 per cent. This “sulpho-chromic catgut” is also called “ green catgut,” from its colour. (4) Catgut may be sterilised by exposure for two hours to a dry heat of 284° F., and then preserved in carbolic oil or sublimate glycerine. It has been shown that much of the so-called “ antiseptic catgut ” that is supplied to surgeons is not aseptic, and the difficulty of obtaining a certainly aseptic catgut has led many surgeons to agree with Kocher in discarding it altogether. When prepared by the fii'st of the methods above described, the catgut is liable to soften prematurely and slip, and allow the vessel to become patent. Catgut in an aseptic wound is gradually absorbed by the leu- cocytes, which invade it from the outside and pass in between its constituent fibres. In a septic wound the ligature may be thrown off' unaltered, or it may be rapidly softened by the peptic action of the micrococci. Catgut is largely used as a ligature for vessels divided in a wound ; it should not be used for ligaturing vessels in their continuity. Its faulty preparation and the great difficulty in making it at once certainly asej)tic, sufficiently supple, and neither too