132 GANGRENE. We may now pass on to the consideration of the different classes of gangrene, as founded on the aetiology- THE VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 1. Direct gangrene.—Under this head will be described (a) gangrene due to crushing; (6) gangrene due to pressure j (c) gan- grene due to acute inflammation; and (cZ) gangrene due to heat or cold. (a) Gaiigrene due to criisSiing'.—The most common cause of direct gangrene is a severe contusion or crush of the part, as, for example, where a limb has been run over. In such a case the parts which are directly subjected to the injury may be deprived of their vitality at once, the vessels which supply them with blood being entirely ruptured, and the whole tissue killed; in such a case death of this tissue is immediate. Injuries of this kind may, however, not only lead to direct gangrene of the part which is subjected to the injury, but may also lead to indirect gangrene of more distant parts. For example, where the wheel of a heavy cart passes over a leg it may not only destroy the tissues over which it passes, but may rupture the blood-vessels leading to the lower part of the limb, with the result that there is, in addition to the direct gangrene, death of the foot and other parts. This form of direct gangrene is moist, because the death of the part is immediate, taking place before evaporation has occurred; but the constitutional symptoms and local appearances after the death of the part will depend on whether one has been able to render it aseptic or not immediately after the injury. If one has failed to render it aseptic, or has not seen the case till some time after the injury, there supervene the typical appearances of moist gangrene already described. The part becomes black, foul-smeUing, with buUte on the surface and peeling of the epidermis, while, at the same time, the patient is suffering from constitutional disturbance, due to the absorption of the poisons which are being formed there. If, on the other hand, the case be seen at once, and efficient measures be taken to render - it aseptic, the typical local and constitutional signs of moist gangrene do not occur. Although a considerable portion of the tissues may have died, no putrefaction takes place in them, and consequently we have_ no bullse no foul smell, no liquefaction of the dead part, no crepitatioi^ no inflammation around, and no constitutional symptoms. _ The de^ part remains as a non-irritating body, and does not give rise to the formation of a line of demarcation around. It becomes mixed up with the blood clot which is effused from the torn vessels, and bv-and-by infiltrated with cells, which gradually destroy it, take its place, and develop into fresh tissue. In fact, the progress of the wound is the same as that which is described under heahng by blood clot (page 206). It may be that after a time a small portion of the dead tissue comes away; but there is, as I have said, no