SYFHILI8. 406 pursued, a man may have two distinct attacks of primary and secondary syphilis. As a, rule, several years must elapse before a patient who has had syphilis can contract the disease again. THE INTEEMEDIATE STAGE OF SYPHILIS. After all the symmetrical lesions of the secondaiy stage have disappeared, we see not infrequently “ reminders,” which take the form of peeling patches on the palms and soles of the feet, of chronic orchitis, of superficial leucomata or ulcers of the tongue or throat, and occasionally of lesions of the nervous system or eye. These are sometimes referred to as forming the intermediate stage, but it is very hard to separate them from the tertiary one, and im- possible to give a time-limit for their occurrence. It must be clearly understood that the division of syphilis into stages, though very convenient, is an arbitrary one. In some severe cases there is no break between the stages, and characteristic tertiary symptoms may develop within a year or two of contagion. (For Treatment, see 23age 419.) TERTIARY SYPHILIS. Phenomena of tertiary syphilis. — The tertiary stage is escaped by a large proportion of syphilitic patients, especially those who have been thoroughly treated with mercury. In those who develop tertiary symptoms, they may supervene at any time from one or two years after contagion to thirty years or more. Apart from their late occurrence, their characteristics are :— 1. Aggressive tendency ; tertiary lesions will probably spread and certainly persist for very long unless treated. 2. Resolution under treatment with iodides, if commenced early. 3. Asymmetry. This, however, is not always the case, and in inherited syphilis some very remarkable exceptions are met with. 4. In the majority of cases, the tertiary symptoms depend upon the production of so-called gummata, which we will now briefly study. A syphilitic gumma commences as a collection of round cells grouped in especial profusion around the vessels of the structure in which it is placed. This is usually connective tissue, e.g. of skin or periosteum, or in some viscera such as the liver, testis, or brain. But m the latter cases it begins probably in the fibrous capsule or supporting tissue of the organ, and spreads to the adjoining l)arts; thus in the brain, gummata especially aflfect the dura and pia mater at first, adhering to and infiltrating the subjacent nervous structures. By the pressure of the cells upon the blood-vessels and against each other (often by a concurrent inflammation of the true vessel-wall), their nutrition is damaged and they undergo fatty or granular degeneration. This will be most marked in the centre of the cellular exudation, whereas towards the periphery organisation into fibrous tissue is the rule. Thus is produced a tough yellowish mass, firm and leathery on section, with few or no patent blood-vessels except