435 tee acute stage. Those cases which present an unusually long incubation stage—a fortnio-ht for instance—are not infrequently examples of a mild urethritis, in the production of which the gonococcus is probably not always to blame. _ r uj. i 2, The stage of aeiite inflammation.—The slight stipky discharge which glues the margins of the meatus together rapidly becomes thick yellow pus, the glans and prepuce swell, micturition is more or less painful, heat and pain are felt along the urethra as the inflammation travels backwards, and an exceedingly common symptom is pain referred to the groins or perineum. Microscopically the discharge is found to consist chiefly of pus cells, vvith a considerable admixture of epithelial cells, which show by their swollen nuclei, etc., evidence of their proliferation.* Inflammatory abrasions of the glans penis are often met with, and are certainly not uncommon ^thin the meatus. The surrounding corpus spongiosum participates in the congestion of the urethral mucous membrane, and becomes swollen and very tender. In a small percentage of cases reten- tion of urine due to the urethral swelling, or to spasm of the muscle in its wall, may be present. Should this retention not yield to a sedative or a warm bath, and relief by instruments be required, the surgeon should use a good-sized very flexible catheter, after in- jecting the urethra with a 2 per cent, cocaine solution. Painful erections at night are not infrequent, and are to be relieved by bathing the part with cold water; when the penis is bent down- wards during the erection by the plastic exudation into the corpus spongiosum, the term chordee is applied. To avoid these complications the patient should be put on a .spare diet, and should sleep lightly clothed while bromides of potassium and ammonium (fifteen grains of each), given in a draught an hour before retiring to bed, are very useful in preventing erections at night. 3. The stage of decline of the inflammation.—In a fair proportion of cases, at the end of two to three weeks from contagion, the discharge tends to become thinner and more white, the painful symptoms already noticed gradually disappearing; but it is just at this stage that another complication—inflammation of the vas deferens and epididymis—is especially prone to develop. The gono- cocci have in these cases reached the prostatic openings of the deferential ducts, and so travelled up their canal, usually lodging in the lower part of the epididymis—the globus minor. A further account of epididymitis and the other complications of gonorrhosa will be found later. As the discharge becomes more scanty and thinner, the symptoms discharges on the day of birth. Almost invariably the lids are glued together by purulent matter on the third or fourth day after delivery. ♦The gonococci can be demonstrated in the pus and epithelial cells in the following manner :—A thin film of the discharge is carefully dried on a cover-glass, then stained with a freshly-prepared watery solution of methyl violet or blue, and after again drying, it is mounted in xylol balsam. A magnifying power of 700 to 1,000 diameters with Abbe’s condenser is needed for the satisfactory demonstration of the gonococci.