2 MANUALS FOE Students of Medicine Published by CASSELL <& COMPANY, Consisting of compact and authoritative Manuals embodying the most recent discoveries, and containing all the informa- tion required for the Medical Examinations of the various Colleges, Halls, and Universities in the United Kingdom and the Colonies. A Manual of Chemistry: Inorganic and Organic, with an Introduction to the Study of Chemistry. For the Use of Students of Medicine. By Arthur P. Luff, M.D., B.Sc, Lond., M.R.C.P.; Fellow of the Institute of Chemistry, &c. &c. With numerous Engravings. Third Thousand, 7s* Od, “The author is evidently a master of his subject, and the work is one which may be confidently recommended to the student of chemistry,’*—Hospital Gazette, First Lines in Midwifery. A Guide to Attendance on Natural Labour. By G. E, Herman, M.B, Lond., F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Obstetric Physician and Lecturer on Midwifery, London Hospital. Sixth Thousand. Gs, “ This manual is of considerable merit, and is likely to prove highly popular In London schools and lying-in hospitals.'*—British Medical yournal. Hygiene and Public Health. By B. Arthur Whitk- LEGGE, M.D., B.Sc. Lond., D.P.H. Camb., Medical OflScer of Health to the West Riding County Council. With 23 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. 7s. Gd, “ It is In every way perfectly reliable, and in accordance with the most recently acquired knowledge.”—British Medical journal. Elements of Histology. By E. Klein, M.D., F.R.S., Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology in the Medical School of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London. Enlarged Edition. 7s. Gd. " A work which must of necessity command a universal success. It is just exactly what has long been a desideratum among students.”—jWrrftcof Press and Circular. Surgical Pathology. By A. J. Pepper, M.S., M.B., F.R.C.S., Surgeon and Teacher of Practical Surgery at St. Mary's Hospital. Illustrated with 99 Engravings. Fourth Edition^ re- written and enlarged. Ss* Gd, ** A student engaged in surgical work will find Mr. Pepper’s * Surgical Pathology ’ to be an invaluable guide, leading him on to that correct comprehension of the duties of a practical and scientific surgeon which is the groundwork of the highest type of British surgery."- British Medical Journal.