INJURIES OF NERVES. 682 the perineurium and the endoneurium, with the sheath of Schwann. structures which are chiefly libi’ous and incapable of conducting nervous impulses. A nerve which has undergone these changes is shrunk to about half its natural size, and is not so white and trans- lucent in appearance as is a healthy nerve. The changes which occur in the part of the nerve above the seat of section are of much less extent, being pi’actically limited to the part immediately above it. Here there is formed, within three or four weeks, an oval swell- ing about twice the size of the nerve itself, and commonly spoken of as the “ bulb.” It is much harder than the nerve above it and, on section, looks dense and fibrous. Under the microscope it is seen to consist of numerous small nerve-fibres, which are probably of new formation, embedded in fibrous tissue. No other alteration occurs in that part of the nerve which is between the bulb and the spinal cord, with the exception of some slow atrophic change, which causes, after some years, a general shrinkage of the whole trunk, and only ensues when from some cause union of the severed nerve has not taken place. 2. Ti’opliic aiKl degenerative lesions.—It has been al- ready mentioned that the parts which are cut off from their nerve supply undergo certain changes, and it is necessary to describe these in some detail, as a proper appreciation of them not only explains many of the symptoms of nerve injuries, but also supplies informar tion as to their proper treatment. The muscles supplied by the severed nerve are at once paralysed, and within a few days begin to show evidence of atrophy and of degeneration. The atrophy is much more than can be accounted for by simple want of use and is infinitely more rapid and complete. It is accomuanied by degenerative changes in the muscle fibres them- selves, which result in the development of fat ^anules in the sarco- lemma and the disappearance of the muscular fibres. Within a few months the muscular tissue is practically destroyed; and not only does the affected muscle diminish in bulk, it also becomes shrunken in length and may, by its shrinking, cause interference ^yith the movements of neiglhoming joints. A muscle so altered is much paler than natural and much more fibrous in appearance. The shin is liable to be altered in various ways. ^ It usually becomes smoother thaix is natural and occasionally, in addition, shiny and glistening, the papdlse appearuig to be smoothed out. Eruptions of eczema, herpes, or acne may result and occasionally ulcers appear in the anmsthetic area. These are frequently due to injury of some kind or another, which, on account of its painlessness, has passed unnoticed by the patient. Thus, an anmsthetic finger may be burnt or cut without the knowledge of the patient, and the result- ing sore is slow to heal, partly because of the deficient nerve supply, and partly also because, on account of its painlessness, the part is often insufficiently protected. More rarely nerve injuries are follovved by gangrene of the pulps of the fingers or toes and occasionally ot a whole digit. Painless whitlows, with superficial collections of pus.