566 DISEASES OF BLOOD- VESSELS. and caused immediate death. These cases are mentioned merely to indicate the extreme ease with which an embolus may be detached. In many cases, fortunately, the embolus is smaller, and lodges in a branch of the pulmonary artery, and after causing more or less intense dyspnoea with slight haemoptysis, and perhaps a small area of pneumonia, the patient recovers. ^ Site of tlu’oinbi.—Thrombosis occurs most often in varicose veins of the lower extremity (see page 575) and in the pelvic veins. The thrombosis of marasmus is very prone to affect the superior longi- tudinal sinus. The lateral sinus is often thrombosed as the result of infection from chronic disease of the middle ear, and the pro- funda femoris vein from septic osteitis of the femur. No vein is exempt. Effects of tlu-ombosis—The first effect is obstruction to the venous return of blood, and the result of this varies with the situation of the thrombus. There may be no appreciable result j the channels of the venous circulation are so large and so numerous, that in many situations the blocking up of one of them leads to no serious consequence. In other cases slight and temporary oedema occurs, which passes off as the anastomosing veins enlarge in response to the special need. If a main vein is blocked the oedema is more extensive, involving the whole thickness of the limb, and it is more persistent. In these cases it is very liable to lead to a condition of “ solid oedema.” Blocking of a deep vein may cause considerable swelling of a limb without any superficial oedema. The presence of a thrombus in a vein sets up inflammation of the vein—phlebitis. If the thrombus is infective, this inflammation is suppurative and terminates in abscess; if it is non-infective, the inflammation is of a low grade of intensity, and does not end in suppuration. The occurrence of embolism and pysemia have been already sufficiently referred to. Lastly, thrombosis often plays an important part in bringing about gangrene. Symptoms.—The symptoms of thrombosis are the presence of a firm cord-like sweUmg in the course of a vein, and local oedema. The cylindrical swelling caused by the distended vein is enlarged opposite each valve, but the exact outline of the vein may become more or less obscured by inflammatory swelling around it. The patient ex- periences a sense of stiffness or tightness in the part, or even acute pain, and it is tender to the touch, particularly when septic suppura- tion is occurring; occasionally superficial veins are dilated. The temperature at the outset is a little raised; in septic thrombosis it becomes of the septicsemic or pysemic type. When suppuration occurs there are the usual signs .of abscess. Ti’catment.—As in phlebitis. Phlebitis.—The various forms of inflammation of veins are sharply divided into two great classes; the non-suppurative or plastic, and the suppurative or septic. 1. Plastic phlebitis is an inflammation of the coats of a vein,