505 Alli IN VEINS. womided vein-or, as it has been well called, its canalisation — may be caused by thickening and rigidity of the vein itself, by inhltration of the sheath of the vein and surrounding tissues, by adhesion of the vein to some unyielding fascia, or to the wound bein" held agape by the surgeon. This may arise in two ways. A vein^’is sometimes partially divided in the angle of a wound, and then, when the edges are held apart, the wound of the vein is held open; or, in removing a tumour, if it is lifted up, and the parts held on the stretch as they are divided, any partially-divided vein is “canalised.” As this accident is especially liable to occur in wounds and operations about the root of the neck, this region is called “ the dangerous area.” It may follow wounds of veins so far away from the heart as the facial and subscapular, and even the common femoral and uterine. E fleets. The sudden entrance of a large quantity of air into the heart may cause its instant paralysis and sudden death of the patient. More commonly when air is drawn to the heart in quantity the right auricle and ventricle and the pulmonary artery are found full of frothy blood, and the left side of the heart empty. The right ventricle is unable to force the mixture of blood and air through the pulmonary capillaries, and the left ventricle, not being filled, is unable to send sulficient blood to the brain, and the patient dies from syncope. When only a small quantity of air is introduced into the circulation, it gradually becomes dissolved in the blood, and possibly some of it escapes thi’ough the lungs. Symptoms.—These may be described as local and general. The sucking of air into a wounded vein is attended with a peculiar hissing or sucking sound, and frothy blood is then seen to issue from the vessel. The general symptoms vary much in intensity. There may be instant death from syncope. More commonly the patient suddenly becomes pale, the pupils dilate, the pulse is flickering or imperceptible, and the movements of respiration are exaggerated, the heart’s action is powerful and turbulent, and on listening over the prsecordia a churning sound is heard. These alarming symptoms may gradually subside, and the patient recover; or the heart’s action may become feebler, and death occur, often preceded by a convulsion. When the accident is fatal, death usually occurs in a few minutes; but if successive quantities of air are sucked in, the fatal issue may be longer delayed. If the patient escapes the immediate danger, he may subsequently die from bronchitis or pnemnonia. Treatment.—In operating in the “dangerous area,” particularly in the removal of tumours, care should be taken not to divide a vein incompletely at either end of the wound, and not to hold the parts on the sti’etch while dividing them. Veins when stretched collapse, and emptied of blood are pale in colour, and then are easily mistaken for bands of fascia. Another way of preventing the entrance of air during such operations is to flood the wound with a harmless and colourless fluid, such as boiled water, saline solution, or boric acid