XXIV. DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. By a. PEAECE GOULD, M.S. Lond., P.R.C.S., Senior Assistant Surgeon, Middlesex Hospital, I. ARTERITIS. Several varieties of arteritis, or inflammation of arteries, have been described. These varieties are distinguished by their cause as traumatic, embolic, and spontaneous; by their intensity and course as acute and chronic, and by the coat of vessel most markedly or earliesl afiected, as endarteritis, mesarteritis, and periarteritis. As a rule, it is the inner coat which is the special seat of inflammatory change. The older surgeons described a diffuse acute or erysipelatous arteritis as a common disease. It is now known not to exist, the post-mortem staining of the tunica intima having been mistaken for the redness of inflammatory hypersemia. Very occasionally, in acute rheumatism, the pai’t of the aorta immediately adjacent to the heart may be the seat of changes exactly resembling acute endocarditis. Rarely, also, atheroma may develop acutely, run a rapid course, and lead to the production of scattered patches of swelling in the tunica intima of the aorta. These, however, are pathological curiosities of little or no importance in surgery. The following vai-ieties of arteritis are of great practical moment:— The acute varieties include plastic or traumatic a/rteritis, sitp- purative arteritis, and embolic arteritis. Several forms of chronic arteritis have been recognised. Of these the most important are atheroma, syphilitic arteritis, tuberculous arteritis, and obliterating arteritis. In each form the changes are most max’ked in the inner coat of the artery. 1. Plastic or traumatic arteritis.—By this is meant the sum of the processes which lead to the healing of a wounded artery. It is characterised by the effusion of plastic lymph and its subsequent organisation. According to circumstances, this lymph either seals a wound in an artery, closes the end of a divided vessel, or infiltrates a thrombus and occludes some extent of the lumen of the tube. It is associated with similar changes in the sheath of the artery, for the mjuries which it repairs always involve the sheath as well as the vessel. It is a strictly local process, with no tendency to spread far beyond the iniured area. It is also a conservative constructive