578 DISL'ASES OF BLOOB-VESSELS. tortuous, and pouched like a varicose vein, it is known as an arterial varix. When this condition atlects several arteries, forming a tumour composed of a congeries of enlarged arteries, it is called a cirsoid aneurysm. When the condition of vascular dilatation has spread from the arteries to the capillaries and veins, it is known as aneurysm by anastomosis or 'plexiform angeioma. In different cases the exact condition of the vessels varies considerably. Seat ami causes.—The disease, in any of its varieties, is a rare one. It may be met with in any part of the body, but its most frequent seat is in the scalp, affecting the superficial temporal, pos- terior auricular, or occipital arteries. It occurs also in the orbit, on the face, on. the trunk and limbs, and even in internal organs, such as the liver. Sutton has seen a large one in the perineum j “ the corpus spongiosum was surrounded by a number of arteries as large as the coronary branches of the facial, and veins as big as the cephalic.” Erichsen observed cases on the side of the chest, nates, and foot, and others involving the hand or the upper limb extensively are recorded. Such cases, however, are very rare, and the disease has been chiefly met with in the scalp. In some cases it follows an injury, such as a cut, bruise, or burn, and, on this account, has been considered inflammatory in nature. In other cases it has supervened upon a congenital erectile tumour, or venous nsevus, developing spontaneously—sometimes at puberty— or as a result of injury. Like venous varix the disease most often commences between puberty and thirty years of age. Pa.tholog'ical cliaiig^es.—The arteries are considerably dilated, pouched, and greatly convoluted. Their walls are very thin, chiefly owing to the atrophy of the middle coat. They may lie in parallel convolutions or be arranged most irregularly, and connected with them there may be enlarged and varicose veins. The arteries leading to a cirsoid aneurysm are varicose, and the disease tends to spread, both centrally along the arteries feeding it, and towards the capillaries. The skin covering the angeioma and the other soft tissues may be pigmented, thickened, and spongy, or thinned and the seat of ulcers, which, by extending into the arteries, occasion very dangerous haemorrhages. Subjacerrt bone may be grooved, or even perforated, by the enlarged vessels. Symptoms and course.—Arterial varix occurs as a single enlarged tortuous artery, which can be traced in the scalp or other part; the vessel is compressible and the seat of strong pulsation. Cirsoid aneurysm occurs as an ill-defined pulsating swelling, in which tortuous vessels carr sometimes be distinguished. The swelling is soft and compressible j its pulsation is forcible aird a distinct thrill is often felt ; usually there is a very loud bruit of a rasping, cooing, or musical character, and the patient is sometimes conscious of the bruit. Dilated and tortuous arteries can generally be traced leading to the tumour and giving it an indistinct outline; very enlarged veins may also be traced passing from it. By compiression of these arteries the pulsation is lessened, and the thrill may be lost,