INJURIES OF BONES. 814 with the limb comfortably placed on a firm pillow, ice packed round the joint, and weight-extension maintained from the arm. When oozing has ceased massage should be begun, and fomentation may quicken absorption. Splints may be applied when the swelling is subsiding. When there is firm impaction a sling may be sufficient; but it would probably always be safer to apply a shoulder cap lightly. When there is deformity the shoulder cap (Fig. 249) or Erichsen’s splint (Pig. 250) must be used if the patient is to get up ; and if, with either, much extension has to be made to prevent shortening, the fingers and the limb below the splint must be bandaged as firmly as it is necessary to bandage the splint to the arm. The hand only is then supported in a sling, so that the weight of the limb to which further weight may be attached, may aid the extension. But, unless hypostasis is feared, the patient is better in bed under weight-extension so long as there is any strong tendency to shortening; for both the above splints are poor ones. When the head is dislocated, an attempt should at once be made to reduce it under an anaesthetic. Failing this, the choice lies between (a) wait- ing eight to twelve weeks till union has occurred, and then attempting re- duction with the chance of a second failure and a bad result or of refrac- ture ; (6) leaving the head alone and pushing the shaft towards the glenoid fossa ; and (c) cutting down on the head and replacing it, or, if this seem un- likely to give a good result, removing it and placing the shaft in the glenoid fossa. In favourable circumstances the latter plan would now be chosen. Since the above was written, Glutton has shown an excellent result in a boy in whom, through an anterior incision, he fixed the head and surgical neck on to the shaft by means of an ivory peg driven vertically through the former into the latter; he then reduced the head, and the boy recovered with a practically perfect joint. Diagnosis of injmies of the shouldci .-For purposes of diagnosis it is well to bring together several of the foregoing injuries to the shoulder which resemble one another in some respects, an to draw attention to the main points of difiference which we should endeavour to establish. Accurate diagnosis may be impossib e v hen the broken-off fragment is small, the coverings thick, or extravasa- tion extensive. Fi". 250.—Treatineut of Fracture of ° the Surgical Neck nf the Humerus hy Erichsen’s Splint, a piece of leather or poroplastic of the form shown. The rounded hend at the upper end acts as an axillary pad, and some extension may be made. A bandage should fix the elbow to the side.