875 PERIOSTITIS. and tender; but it is scarcely likely to be of exactly the same size, nor is the enlargement likely to be in exactly the same part of the shaft. Otlier bones may also be afiected. Except in the case of wounds and compound fractures, the soft parts are not involved in the inflammation. On the inner surface of the tibia, where the bone is quite superficial, there may be some slight oedema and “ pitting ” on careful pressure. In the diagnosis of osteitis from tumours of bone, it may be observed that the endosteal growths are generally more globular in outline, whilst the periosteal scarcely ever completely surrounds the shaft. In both forms of tumour the ends of the long bones are the parts most frequently affected, and more than one bone is not likely to be involved. {^See page 907 et seq.) Treatment.—Iodide of potassium in gradually increasing doses, five, ten, or even fifteen grains, three times a day, should always be at once tried. In most cases this drug gives instant relief to pain in the early stages of chronic or subacute osteitis. The more nearly the inflammation approaches the acute type the less likely is it to give relief. In these cases especially, if accompanied by any febrile symptoms, an incision should be made through the periosteum over the centre of the swelling, and the trephine applied. If the swelling be long and fusiform, without any definite spot of acute tenderness on pressure, a groove may be made in the bone with a gouge, and deepened till the medulla is reached. Even if no pus is found, relief may be obtained, and the bone subsequently return to its normal condition. Suppuration and necrosis may sometimes in this way be avoided. In the more chronic cases, and especially where syphilis is likely to be the cause, iodide of potassium must be pushed and jiersevered with for some weeks or months, and mercury in some form should be added if the former drug fails to reduce the swelling and relieve the pain. PERIOSTITIS. Three varieties will be described, namely: (1) Simple acute periostitis; (2) acute diffuse, or infective, periostitis; and (3) chronic periostitis. 1. Simple acute periostitis.—This trouble may arise from an iiy ury) such as a blow. Syphilis also gives rise to periosteal nodes, whicli. are sometimes quite acute. Tubercle may also, in rare instances, be responsible for some softening nodes on the shafts of long bones, but is generally then an accompaniment of a tubercular osteo- myelitis. Acute articular rheumatism, typhoid fever, measles, and scarlet fever are also sometimes followed by an acute periostitis. Palliolop^cal anatomy.—The periosteum is swollen and vascular, easily separable from bone beneath, and infiltrated with inflammatoi’y products. In favourable circumstances the parts involved may return to their normal condition; but, on the other hand, suppuration may take place. The abscess which forms has less tendency to burrow far before making its way through the fibrous