CYSTS ABOUT JOINTS. 1069 non-nialignant and call for no more detailed consideration in this place. Carcinoma is, even as a secondary affection of joints, one of the rarest of diseases. Of course, when an articulation is secondarily involved in the growth of either a sarcoma or carcinoma, the interest in the joint is merged in the more general question regarding the neoplasm, and becomes altogether subordinate to the latter. In these cases it is a question of saving life, and this can only be done in almost every instance of the kind by the sacrifice of the joint. Cysts in and about joints.—These are few in number, and are almost invariably connected with the synovial sacs in or about the articulation. At the same time, we must recognise the fact that no part of the body appears to have immunity from invasion by the cysticercus but this; the true hydatid must be very rare as a disease of joints. I^cat.—The commonest forms of synovial cysts of the kind in question are those consisting of simple dilatation of normal bursae from excessive secretion. Such bursae exist in abundance in the neighbour- hood of many joints, and are affected by the same causes of disease as the latter. The commonest seat, as we find them, is in the front of the hip joint, where the bursa under the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus tendons may be enlarged, the back of the knee, where the bursa between the semi-membranosus tendon and the head of the gastrocnemius is distended, or the inner aspect of the same joint, in which case the synovial sacs connected with the inner hamstring tendons are affected. Again, the bursa just above the insertion of the ligamentum patellae may become enlarged. Finally, the proper bursae patellae may be affected in various ways. The ankle, shoulder, elbow, and wrist are also surrounded with bursae and tendon sheaths, any of which may become distended. .(Etiology.—The cause of enlargement may be of at least three kmds. It may be due to hyper-secretion, the result of hyperaemia, resulting from simple local mechanical irritation, as, for instance, the pressure of kneeling on the bursae patellae ; or it may be due to hyper- plasia and hyper-secretion, resulting from tuberculous irritation ; or it may be due to increased secretion, depending upon the presence in tlie blood of deleterious matters of various kinds. This is as much as to say that the commonest forms of bursal enlargement are all due to one or other species of synovitis. It must not be forgotten, too, that occasionally pouches of the normal synovial membrane of joints are formed, which protinide through the capsular structures, and show themselves as cystic structures on one or other aspects of the articulatioit. These are not infrequently mistaken for independent cysts, and are only recognised as connected with the joint when they have been opened. This error is not so serious now as in the days before complete aseptic operation was understood. But even now it is at times a grave one to make. Syiiii»toHis.—Most of these cysts offer, as a rule, but little