330 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. with a central opening surrounded by six small eminences. An enormous number of embryos are contained in the body, which, when set free, live and move actively for several days in water. Having attained full development in the human body, the female worm discharges numerous embryos, and is expelled. The embryos set free in water enter an intermediate host in the form of a small crustacean of the genus Cyclops. After a stay of 35 to 36 days in the intermediate host, the embryos, having attained full larval development, may be conveyed in drinking water with the host into the stomach of man. Sexual maturity is accomplished here ; the male worm probably perishes and is discharged with the faeces, and the female worm migrates into the tissues (F^dschenko). In the vast majority of cases the worm escapes from some point in the lower extremities. Thus, in 1,000 cases collected by Tilbury Fox, this occurred in 98 per cent.; and among 300 cases observed by Horton, in 206 instances the feet and ankles formed the seat of emergence. It has been, however, observed to come to tlie surface at the chin, in the floor of the mouth, at the orbit, nose, head, hand, scrotum, and over the chest wall. The worm has not been met with in internal organs. It is usually single, but has been met with in large numbers. The period of incubation varies perhaps from twelve to fifteen months. Symptoms.—When the adult woim reaches the subcutaneous tissue, an elongated swelling, somewhat resembling a thrombosed vari- cose vein, is developed. The worm may still continue to travel, but eventually considerable local pruritus precedes the development of a small vesicle or boil. When this ruptures, a serous fluid—clear if the worm is entire, turbid if embryos are already free— escapes, and the head of the worm appears at the bottom of a small cavity. The worm may now be expelled or removed, or sometimes the opening may heal, and a fresh swelling forms in the neighbour- hood. In other cases considerable inflammation and the formation of an abscess have been observed, the inflammation and suppuration being sometimes severe enough to cause serious general symptoms. Diagnosis.—The character of the swelling and vesicle, together with the locality in which they are met with, are usually suflicient for the formation of a correct opinion. Difliculty may occur in special regions ; thus in a case reported by Duncan, in which the scrotum formed the seat of the tumour, orchitis was simulated. Prognosis.—The disease aflfords no danger to life except in the cases where severe inflammation gives rise to complications. Severe subsequent contractions have been observed (Horton). Treatmont.—If undisturbed the worm is eventually expelled from the opening by which the embryos have been discharged in an average period of from fifteen to twenty days (Forbes). Manson recommends that this process should be allowed to complete itself spontaneously, unless the conditions are such as to allow the radical extirpation of the entire parasite at one sitting by excision. In