475 EPITHELIAL T UMO Jill8. cortex of tlie kidney. On superficial examination they resemble small fatty tumours, and have often been described as renal lipomata. When thin sections of those bodies are prepared for the microscope and deprived of fat, they exhibit the peculiar structure of the zona fasciculata of the adrenal. These accessory adrenals are probably the source of certain renal tumours usually described as sarcomata, but resembling the adrenal in structure. The subject is of practical importance, inas- much as renal tumours of this character are far less malignant than are other species of renal sarcomata. Deciduoma.—This name is applied t.o an excessively malignant tumour characterised histologically by cells identical with the large decidual cells of the placenta. This tumour probably arises in frag- ments of placental tissue left in the uterus, as they have only been observed in women after recent delivery or abortion. The tumour grows rapidly, and is usually lobulated; on section the lobules resemble in colour and consistence the pulp of a pomegranate. Secondary deposits occur in the viscera and bones. GROUP II. EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. In the group of tumours now to be considered, epithelium is not only present, but is the essential and distinguishing feature. Epithelium is so disposed in the bodies of complex animals as to serve many functions. In some situations it acts as a protective— e.ff. the epidermis, where it becomes modified into hair, nail, horn, or into the hardest of aU animal tissues—enamel. In other parts, pro- cesses of epithelial cells dip into the underlying connective tissue to form secreting glands; some are very simple—e.ff. the tubular glands of the intestine; others are very complex—e.ff. the bver, mamma, and kidney. Whether a gland is simple or complex, the principle of construction is identical—namely, narrow channels lined with epithelium, resting upon a connective-tissue base, in which blood-vessels, lymphatics and nerves ramify. Each epithelial recess of a gland is known as the acinus, and each acinus is in communication with a free surface, either directly by its own duct, as in the case of sebaceous and mucous glands, or indirectly by means of a number of main ducts, as in the case of the mamma; or by a common duct, as in the pancreas. To this rule there are thi'ee notable exceptions: the thyroid gland, the pituitary body, and the ovary. Classification.—Tlie differences in the disposition of epithe- lium enable epithelial tumours to be arranged in four genera: 1, Papilloma; 2, epithelioma; 3, adenoma; 4, carcinoma. 1. Papilloma (Wahts). A papilloma consists of an axis of fibrous tissue containing blood- vessels, surmounted by epithelium, projecting from an epithelial