Published by Cassell Company. 6 Medical Handbook of Life Assurance. For the use of Medical and other Officers of Companies. By James Edward Pollock, M.D., F.R.C.P., and James Chisholm (Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, London, and of the Faculty of Actuaries, Scotland). New and Revised Edition. 7s. 6d. A Guide to the Instruments and Appliances Required in Various Operations. By A. w. Mavo Robson, F.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Surgery in the Yorkshire College of the Victoria University, &c. &c. Is. 6d. The Uric Acid Diathesis. By Dr. F. Levison. Translated_ from the German and Edited by Lindley Scott, M.A., M.D. Being a Compendium of Recent Investigations on the Pathology and Treatment of Gout, Sand, and Gravel. 3s. 6d. Vaccination Vindicated; Being an Answer to the Leading Anti-Vaccinators. By John C. McVail, M.D., D.P.H. Camb.; President of the Sanitary Association of Scotland, &c. 5s. The Natural History of Cow-Pox and Vaccinal Syphilis. By Charles Creighton, M.D. 3s. A uthoritative Work on Health by Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. The Book of Health: A Systematic Treatise for the Professional and General Reader upon the Science and the Preservation of Health. 21s. Roxburgh, 25s. “ Is what it aims to be—authoritative, and must become a standard work of reference not only with those who are responsible for the health of schools, workshops, and other establishments where there is a large concourse of individuals, but to every tnember of the community.”— Lancet. Advice to Women on the Care of their Health, Before, During, and After Confinement. By Florence Stacpoole, Diplom^e of the London Obstetrical Society, &c. &c. Paper covers, Is.; or cloth. Is. 6d. Our Sick, and How to Take Care of Them; or, Plain Teaching on Sick Nursing at Home. By Florence Stacpoole. Paper covers. Is.; or cloth. Is. 6d. A Handbook of Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital. By Catherine J. Wood, Lady Superintendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. Tenth and Cheap Edition. Is. 6d.; cloth, 2s. A Handbook for the Nursing of Sick Children By Catherine J. Wood. 2s. 6d. Diet and Cookery for Common Ailments. By A Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, and Phyllis Browne. Cheap Edition. 2s. 6d. School Hygiene, An Address in. By Clement Dukes, M.D. Is. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London.