INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS. 270 disturbance of parts produced by coughing, and the imperfect oxygenation of the blood. Operations and injuries in such individuals Ccin iiardly be expected to follow a quite even course. (^) ^iffections of the alimentary canal.—In the matter of affec- tions of the alimentary canal there is little to be said. The efiect that any disease of the stomach or intestines may have upon an operation is to be measured by the effect it has on the general health Ihe subject of chrome dyspepsia can hardly be well nourished, and the subject of habitual constipation is burdened with a trouble which an operation serves to complicate. It is unnecessary to state that an operation should be avoided, if possible, during the course of diarrhoea or dysentery. _ (4) Diseases of the Ziuer.—Affections of the liver have a very injurious influence upon operations and injuries. Even the slifrhter forms of hepatic trouble serve to compromise the future of an opera- tion, and the more defined diseases of the liver have a definite ill- effect upon surgical wounds. Such are cirrhosis of the liver and the conditions of fatty or amyloid degeneration. Advanced forms of these affections offer a serious bar to operation. Operations per- formed in the eailier stages of the former disease will certainly be injuriously affected. The subject of cirrhosis is probably a drunkard ; the subject of amyloid degeneration the victim of long-continued suppuration. ° The risks these patients run are numerous. Some succumb to shock, others die of exhaustion. In all there is a probability that the wound will not heal, but that it will slough and suppurate, and become the seat of spreading inflammation of a low type. Eysemia was unduly common in these patients. No question is more difficult to decide than that which concerns the period in the progress of lardaceous disease of the liver, be^mnd which it is practically unjustifiable to operate. In the quite ad- vanced stages of the disease a serious operation is certainly not justifiable. In the earlier and middle periods an operation such as an amputation may be performed with ultimate admirable success, for it not only rids the patient of his trouble—probably a suppurating joint—but it removes the cause of the visceral complication. (5) Kidney disease.—It may be safely said that the results of operations and injuries are more powerfully influenced by diseases of the kidneys than by a corresponding disease of any other organ. An operation upon the subject of advanced Blight’s disease or of surgical kidney is a desperate matter. A patient may look fairly healthy, may appear well nourished, may be temperate and living a most regular life, and the operation may be but a trifling one; yet the complication of albuminuria renders the surgical procedure most serious and hazardous. Many an elderly man has died almost suddenly from the effects of rough catheterisation, and it has been found after death that he was the subject of an unsuspected pyelitis. Quite slight operations of no urgency—such as that for the relief