287 dangers of ANJESTEESIA. pressure rapidly falls; and the heart ceases to beat. It is an nterSn<^ and significant fact that vigorous patients do not die u^Srether during the struggling stage, although respiration is just as or even more, liable to become arrested, the stimulant effect of Sis anresthetic apparently sufficing to keep the circulation going till resniration becomes re-established. Extremely feeble and exhausted patients may, however, fall victims to asphyxial syncope even under Pther This agent protects, as far as any anaesthetic can protect, against cardiac failure ; but the heart may be so feeble that a comparatively slight impediment to free respiration may arrest it. In cases of stmncmlated hernia, for example, the temporarily arrested breathing incidLtal to vomiting may be sufficient to lead to syncope ; and a similar sequence of events sometimes occurs in cases of empyema, the determining cause of the symptoms being respiratory embarrassment, arisinf^ either before the patient is fully anaesthetised, or subsequently when” the operation is proceeding. The all-important point in connection with cases of this group is the uselessness of devoting time and attention to the re-establishment of the circulation without first restoring respiration. 7 • . i (3) Circulatory failure from an over-dose of the ancesthetic takes place after complete anaesthesia has become established. When mtrous oxide or ether is given in toxic quantities to moderately healthy patients, respiratory paralysis ensues, cyanosis becomes marked, and the pulse, after a considerable interval, ceases to beat. The administration of an over-dose of chloroform, however, has a somewhat different effect, for the reduction of blood pressure and cardiac action becomes so conspicuous a feature of the case that, when respiration ceases, an ashy pallor rather than cyanosis is present, and there is little or no interval between the cessation of breathing and the disappearance of the pulse. Moreover, in some cases the circulatory phenomena of chloroform poisoning may over- shadow the respiratory, pallor and heart failure being evident whilst respiration is still proceeding. But whilst we have in nitrous oxide and ether agents which, when given in toxic doses, do not depress the circulation of healthy patients to the extent which is observed with chloroform, it must be borne in mind that in exhausted subjects the use of nitrous oxide or ether in toxic quantities may be followed by rapid circulatory failure, similar in its main features to that met with when an over-dose of chloroform is given to a patient in good health. The treatment of all cases in this class is the same : namely, to pro- ceed at once to artificial respiration, with the object of restoring the pulmonary circulation and of ridding the blood as quickly as possible of the poison which it has absorbed. Partial or complete inversion (Ndlaton) may advantageously be combined with artificial respiration in some cases. Direct compression of the heart from below the thoracic margin is said to have been successful in a few instances; but any procedure of this kind should only be undei’taken as an adjunct to artificial respiration. (4) Circulatory depression connected with vomiting is more