]046 DISEASES OF JOINTS. vitality lies at the root of the advance of tlie disease, so we must improve the patient’s general health in every way in our power by nourishing food, fresh air, cod-liver oil, and tonics. In some cases where the disease is not far advanced the use of tlie joint in modera- tion need not be prohibited, and limited movement will probably bo beneficial. Among the more aged and cacliectic, iodide of potassium or ammonium and iron will take the place of mercury. In both massage and douches will be of the greatest use, as tending to improve the vitality of the tissues and promote absorption. Where resolution takes place the surface of the joint will be marked by pits and contractions, corresponding to the foci of granulation tissue, which have shrunken and organised or degenerated. 3 Tuberculous synovial disease. Patiioiogy.—The next pathological condition on our list is the tuberculous affection of the synovial membrane. And in considering this disease it will be necessary to assume that the general pathology of tubercle is understood. {See page 340.) It is essentially a disease of the two extremes of life. In other words, it is met with at a time when the general vitality of the body is feeble, and when the tissues are particularly vulnerable to injurious influences, operating either from within the body or from without. Again, it is essentially a disease of the poorer classes, who live' under the depressing influences of mal-hygiene, although it may lie met with among those who live in the midst of luxury, and are consequently debilitated in other ways, or perhaps, strongly pre- disposed by heredity. But wherever and whenever met with, it is always due to the presence of a specific poison generated by an organism, to which the name of bacillus tuberculosis has been given. Tuberculous synovitis is simply an inflammation set up in the synovial membrane by the presence of this particular organism. This is brought to the part in the vast majority of cases with the blood, although in some exceptional cases the joint is directly in- fected from without. But for a general tuberculous infection of the syno'vial membrane, something else is usually necessary in addi- tion to the mere presence of the organism. There is reason to believe that in many individuals who are tuberculous the bacilli or their spores circulate freely in the body with the blood, and yet these patients do not necessarily get tuberculous joint affections. As a rule, some local influence which lowers the vitality of the par- ticular structure affected is necessary in order to render it vulner- able to the attacks of the bacillus. Such influences are met with in injuries such as blows or strains, and in cold and wet. These may act in three ways, at least, in favouring the growth of the parasite. In the first place, an injury may directly lower the vital power of the part, and in the next it may secondarily injure its nutrition by inducing active or passive hypersemia. Finally, with the increase of blood in the part we can imagine a greater amount of the tuber- culous poison to be carried to the region involved, ready to settle u])on the most damaged spot.