NERVE-8TBETC1IINQ. 693 fifteen to twenty minutes daily and should be persevered in for several weeks. Operations on the nerves for the cure of neuralgia are only very exceptionally indicated. Where a nerve twig is caught in a scar, or where a trunk is compressed by inflammatory effusion, it is evident that an operation should be undertaken to free the nerve from its suri’oundings. But such cases form only a very small percentage of the total and cannot really be compared with the more common neuralgias which own no such exciting cause. There are, however, a certain number of cases of intractable facial neuralgia, where operations on the affected nerve trunks may be undertaken with much temporary benefit •, and in no class is operation more called for than in the so-called epileptiform neuralgia. It has already been said that in many of these cases any slight peripheral irritation may excite an attack, and the object of an operation is to prevent the transmission of any stimuli along the trunk or branches of the afllicted nerve. It is not to be supposed that any operation on nerve tranks for the cure of neuralgia is based uj)on the supposition that the nerves are the seat of disease. There is no reason to believe that this is the case, but it appears probable that when relief is obtained it is really due to the rest secured to an over-stimulated nerve centre, and the operation may be considered to act by procuring physiological rest to the sensorium. It will, therefore, be evident that such operative treatment does not aim at eradicating the disease by the removal of any diseased structure j and this should clearly be kept in mind in considering the advisability of operative interference, and in the choice of the operation itself. It must further be explained to the patient that operations of neurotomy, or nerve-stretching, cannot be relied upon to bring about a cure, but that, while they do in some cases apparently bring permanent relief, in many others the freedom from pain is merely temporary. Nerve-Str6tching.—Before considering the operation of nerve- stretching, it is necessary to consider very briefly the strength and elasticity of the nerves. It has been estimated, as a I'esult of expeiiment, that a nerve is capable of being stretched about one- twentieth of its whole length, and in general terms it may be stated that the elasticity of different nerves is, for all practical purposes, equal. The strength of a nerve depends necessarily on its size, and the larger trunks are capable of resisting very considerable force. The breaking strain of the sciatic nerve varies from about one hundred to one hundred and sixty pounds, while such nerves as the median, musculo-spiral, and ulnar will support from about fiftv to eighty pounds’ weight. The small nerves, such as the branches of the fifth, of course ofier but little resistance, and break with a strain of from five to ten pounds. Aimtomic»l cliaiigcs.—The anatomical changes which follow nerve-stretching are the result of laceration of the various structures included in the nerve sheath, and may be briefly summarised.