ERYSIPELAS. ]68 The absorption of septic materials is, perhaps, greater, and deatli from sapnemia, septicaemia, and collapse is more frequent. Tlie local characters of cellulitis are extensive, hard, deep-seated and brawny swelling, with heat and burning pain. The skin over the swelling is tense, cedematous, and dusky red. The lymphatic glands are inflamed and enlarged, and the veins are often filled with septic clots. Gangrene of the skin is a complication of cellulitis. It is more common in some regions than in others, and in cellulitis caused by extravasation of urine the skin of the penis and scrotum are destroyed, unless saved by incisions. The cutaneous gangrene of cellulitis is sometimes mistaken for that rare affection called spontaneous gangrene of the penis and scrotum. Cellulitis does not necessarily begin at the point of inoculation, but may burst out in cellular tissues at some distance. For instance, in dissection wounds of the fingers, the axilla and chest wall are often affected, whilst the arm is but slightly swollen with some lymphangitis. The changes in the cellular tissues are the same as in cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas. The purulent fluid is diffused along the cellular planes, and seldom forms collections sufficient to afford fluctuation. Extensive gangrene of the cellular tissues ensues. The characters of the purulent fluid vary according to the causation. In cellulitis due to extravasation of urine, and in cellulitis of the neck, it is often horribly foetid, because putrefactive bacilli are mixed with streptococci and other bacteria. Treatment of erysipelas.—The preventive treatment ot ery- sipelas requires a proper knowledge of the properties and habitat of the streptococcus of erysipelas, and of the measures required for its destruction. It is destroyed in ten minutes by a heat of 52° to 54° 0. (Sternbeig), and is* killed almost instantly by boiling water or steam. Chemicals kill it in course of time, provided that the conditions are favourable for their action. The streptococcus was dead after two hours’ exposure to a solution of mercuric chloride 1 part in 2500 parts of water, or to a solution of carbolic acid 1 part in 300 parts of water. Of course, stronger chemicals act in a shoi*t6I* tlTGG * In regions of the body where disinfection is difficult or impossible, erysipelas is more liable to follow operations. W^ith care, the trans- mission of erysipelas is rare. The sister in charge of the erysipelas ward at St. Bartholomew’s tells me that only one nurse has acquired the disease during a period of nine years. Scrupulous care is token in washing and disinfecting the hands and instruments. \\ hen erysijielas occurs in a general ward, the case ought to bo at once isolated. i , j Care in the use of antiseptics has practically^ banished ery- sipelas. I have no*- yet had a case after an operation in which no septic focus pre existed, and can only recall two slight attacks in septic cases. In these the disease was undoubtedly carried by