1091 BIP JOINT DISEASE. superior spine of the ilium, and runs downwards and slightly inwards for two or three inches. The knife, in making it, ought to pass between the borders of the tensor vaginae femoris externally and the sartoi’ius internally, and as it penetrates deeper, between the gluteus minimus externally and the rectus internally. In this incision the capsule of the joint is reached, in many cases, without the necessity of attending to' a single artery, unless the cut be made too far downwards, when the circumflex or its branches may be divided. In any case, these small vessels give no trouble, and, if secured for a minute or two in catch-forceps, wiU cease to bleed. When the abscess is opened, either before the capsule is divided or after, it is most carefully flushed out with a stream of warm boiled water at high pressure, and scraped clean before going any farther. This flush- ing is best carried out through a hollow gouge, designed some years ago by the author, by means of which aU loose material can be washed away by a powerful voluminous stream as fast as it is loosened or cut by the gouging action of the edge (Fig. 453). When aU broken-down matter is scraped and washed away, the capsule is opened by a blunt-pointed bistoury, and the condition of the interior is ascertained with the Anger. In the class of cases upon which I am accustomed to operate, the head of the bone will be found to be eroded or completely destroyed, or, on the other hand, it may lie loose within the capsule in the form of one, two, or more sequestra. In either case, it is well to saw the neck across at about its middle with a narrow-bladed saw, so as to obtain a clean surface, unaffected with tuberculous caries. Then the broken-down debris of the head is scooped out with the gouge, while the sterilised water is rushing into the cavity and carrying ofi" every trace of dead tissue which is movable. The finger will now feel whether the acetabulum is diseased or not. and if it is the gouge can be used thorouglily to clear out all broken-down cartilage and carious bone, and also to loosen any sequestra which may be present. If it should happen, as is often the case, that the carious process has extended through the centre of the acetabulum into the pelvis, the disease must be followed up wth the gouge, until the acetabulum is perforated, and the abscess, which usually in such cases lies on the internal aspect of the bone, is opened up and scraped and flushed clean. I liave been able over and over again in this way to remove relatively lar<ve sequestra from this situation, and to evacuate large iiitiipelvic Fig 453.—Fiushiug Gouge oonuected with sterilised water tank by flexible rubber tube.