DI8EASJSS OF BONE8. 91-i Sarcoma.—A primary malignant tumour of bone is always one of the varieties of sarcoma, and must necessarily require amputation or very serious mutilation of the part involved. (8e>‘ page 466.) As regards the structure, little need be added to what has been said elsewhere (page 466), except that a large proportion of sarcomata of bone are attributed by the patients to some definite injury. The most important distinction has to be drawn at tire very out- set between the central and peripheral sarcomata. Ceiiti’al and pci’ipliei’al sarcomata.—The former start, as the name indicates, from the medullary tissue of the bone, and may be called endosteal. The latter arise, as a rule, in the osteogenetic layer on the surface of bone, and are generally described as suh- feriosteal. There is another and rarer variety of peripheral sarcomata, usually designated as jyarosteal. These arise in the tissue immedi- ately outside the periosteum, and only se- condarily invade bone. But, inasmuch as the treatment is almost the same as for the sub- periosteal sarcomata, it is desirable to mention them in reference to this subject. Pathological anatomy.—Both central and peripheral sarcomata may be round-celled, spindle-celled, or a combination of both. In the central alone, if we except an epulis, is a true myeloid sarcoma ever found. Secondary changes may ensue in them all, the periosteal having an especial tendency to chondrify, ossify, or calcify, whilst the central are more liable to degenerative softening, and may become cystic, fatty, or myxomatous. The central are also often exceedingly vascular: a condition which may at one time lead to hjemorrhages in its sub- stance, and ha another to distinct pulsation. With regard to the coarse anatomy of these sarcomata, the sub- periosteal growth shows in most cases a distinct radiation outwards from the bone to which it is fixed. Bound these columns or hues ossification or calcification takes place, so that the central portion is often composed of fan-hke radiating bone. As the growth in- creases, the periosteum is farther removed from the bone, so that the area in which the radiation may occur becomes larger and occupies a greater part of the tumour. But bone is never found in the peripheral part of such a sarcoma, being confined to the central portion, if found at all. Soft new growth may also be found outside the periosteum and within the medullary canal. All these points are well shown in Fig. 357. The central sarcoma starts in the medullary canal, and gradually 354.—Man, aged 35, from whom the Speci- men shown in Fig. 355 was removed by Anipu. t.ation.