DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1132 drained, as long as efTusion is abundant. Many such cases recover with wonderfully little permanent injury if this treatment be care- fully carried out, but some are left with much stiffness. The subacute and chronic forms of these affections differ only in degree, and requh’e the same treatment in less vigorous shape. Tuberculous disease of the wrist may be primary either in its synovial membrane or its bones, or may be secondary to tuberculous teno-synovitis starting in any of the tendon sheaths round the joint. In any case it is a very grave affection, and most intractable. When synovial at the outset, it as a rule soon attacks the bones, and spreads to the whole carpus in mairy cases. The syiiiptonis are stiffness, followed by uneasiness and a little pain. As a rule, the latter in the earlier stages of the affection is very moderate, and the tendons may move freely over the joint with- out suffering or limitation. Presently the swelling becomes very marked, and the swollen, doughy wrist presents a characteristic appearance. The softness and doughiness are most marked behind at either side of the extensor tendons. Then as the bones become more deeply engaged and lose their encrustmg cartilage, the pain becomes very severe and continuous, aggravated by the slightest movement. The suffermg often tells very much upon the patient’s sleep and general health, and he becomes thin and weak. Treatment.—The general treatment is that for tuberculosis in any part of the body. {^See page 1049.) The local treatment consists in perfect rest on a splint, such as that already figured. Blisters may be applied in the early stages or other counter-irritants,, and Bier’s method (page 1050), with or without the injection of iodoform in suspension, should be given a fair trial. Some of the results of the latter which I have seen have been quite surprising, especially in this joint. But where these means fail, and the tuberculous material either in the bones or synovial membrane is undergoing caseation and soften- ing, as indicated by thinning of the soft parts and fluctuation, nothing is left but a more or less formal excision of the diseased tissue. In such cases I am in favour of as limited operative interference as possible, incisions being made wherever there is e^ddence of softened tissue, and through these the removal of the morbid matter, with free gouging and flushing and immediate closure of the wound. These measures will, in my opinion, accomplish all that can be achieved bv the most radical excision, and with less risk. But these cases are not very satisfactory, as a rule, and where recurrence is obvious, and any further interference would leave a very much impaired articulation, amputation is required in but too many instances. The great hope for the future lies here in very early diagnosis and energetic treatment. Osteo-arthritis of the wrist.—This is a common and most intractable affection. The rules already given for its treatment in other joints apply here, and need not be repeated.