WOUNBS AND CONTUSIONS. 212 interfere with the growth of the organisms, although they may still remain alive; and if the growth be prevented, they cannot pene- trate into the tissues, or if they do come in contact with living cells, they are quickly destroyed. It is also an important point to remember that the tissues themselves have a very great power of resisting the entrance of bacteria, and hence it is only under certain special conditions, which have been in part referred to in speaking of suppuration, that they can really obtain a foothold in the body. How it is that the tissues act as destructive agents of bacteria is still a matter of dispute. It is supposed that the products of certain bacteria have an attractive power on white blood corpuscles, what is termed chemiotaxis, and that it is in consequence of this attractive action on the white blood corpuscles that the enormous migration of cells which takes place in inflammation is brought about. The products of other bacteria, on the other hand, have the opposite efiect, so that with them, instead of an active migration of leucocytes, their field of action remains compax’atively free from cells. Whether there is such an eft'ect on the white corpuscles by the products of the bacteria or not, it is certain that in cases where death is not occurring with ex- traordinary rapidity, that is to say, where the bacteria are not extremely virulent, there is enormous heaping-up of leucocytes in their neighbourhood, and it is held on the phagocytic theory that these leucocytes or other free cells seize on the bacteria by means of their amoeboid action, take them into their own protoplasm, and there cause their destruction. {See also page 23.) On the other hand, a large amount of evidence has been brought forward to show that there is present in the serum of the blood in certain animals and in certain circumstances sub- stances that have a destructive action on the bacteria, and hence some hold the view that the first thing which occurs is a weakening or destruction of the vitality of the bacteria by means of these chemical substances, and that it is only when the organ- isms are so injured that the cells are able to take them up and destroy them. It is most likely that the truth lies between these two theories, if indeed these are the only possible explanations. However that may be, we have the broad fact perfectly clearly established as the result of clinical evidence that the tissues when in a healthy condition have a great power of resisting the entrance of bacteria, and even of destroying them when present under cer- tain conditions, such as where the number of the orgamsnis is not too great, where their products are not too concentrated, where thei^virulence has been diminished, and so on. THE TREATMENT AND VARIETIES OF WOUNDS. The treatment of wounds must vary in difierent circum- stances, and we shall have to consider the following classes of wounds from the point of view of treatment, namely