injuries of nerves in frag tube. 789 As a rule, there are no premonitory signs other than, P^haps, rnrlPTua of the limb The patient may be suddenly seized with fatal ±ope Moroommonl/there is a short period of intense alarm ; cries L uttered, “Pm dying,” I can’t breathe face is pale and expresses terror, air is entering the lungs “eely, the heart is^palpitating violently; the patient struggles for a minute oi two—then all is over. In the minor cases the symptoms are similai but less severe, and they pass off. Trom such patients we may leara that they felt something move from their leg and pass up into their chest. The attack may be followed by brick-red expectoration and si"ns of a patch of consolidation. Injuries of nerves in fracture.—These appear to be more common in connection with fractures than injuries of vessels, i ey are far more common in the upper than in the lower limb, because in it the musculo-spiral (injured in more than one-third of all cases), brachial plexus, and ulnar nerves (Fig. 253) lie close to bones at spots where fractures are common, and more frequent in simple than in compound injuries, probably because the latter are unusual m the arm In the lower limb the peroneal nerve is most frequently involved where it lies on the neck of the fibula; then comes the anterior tibial Injury of a nerve may be due to direct violence or to a displaced fragment; usually it occurs with the fracture (primary lesion), but occasionally compression is due to late displacement of fragments or spHnters (secondary lesion), or to involvement in callus or scar tissue. _ . . By far the commonest primary lesion is a contusion, ivhich^ niay, however, amount to a crush, destroying physiological continuity more or less completely. In rare instances a nerve may be more or less completely torn through, or pierced by a splinter driven into its substance, or jammed between the fragments, or drawn tight and kinked over the end of one which is displaced. (See also page 689.) Syinptonis.—The symptoms of these lesions must be :—impair- ment of function of the injured nerve, varying from slight interfer- ence with, to complete loss of, conducting power of sense and motion; and pain from the injury, which is rarely, if ever, of the nature of a clean cut, and which consequently is likely to cause somewhat pro- longed aching. In cases in which a nerve is partly torn through, transfixed by a splinter, caught between the two fragments, stretched over the edge of a displaced fragment, or contained in a rough-walled canal, pain may be constant and agonising (in several cases of old date it gave rise to amputation), or it may occur in violent shock.' with certain movements. But these irritant lesions have worse con- sequences : symptoms like those of tetanus, and resulting in death, have occurred even in simple fractures ; an ascending neuritis reaching even to the cord and ending in tabes has been traced lately to lesions of peripheral nerves; and prolonged neuralgia, paralysis, wasting, con- traction, glossy skin and other trophic lesions have not uncommonly resulted. Division of a nerve, actual or physiological, is followed by its degeneration, and, in case of a motor nerve, by rapid atrophy of