8EG0NDABY SYPHILIS. 401 Secondary syphilitic lesions of the eyes.—Of these the chief are: 1, Iritis; 2, Choroiditis; 3, Neuro-retmitis; the first- named being by far the most frequent. 1. Syphilitic iritis is practically confined to the secondary sta^e when the disease has been acquired; whilst in the inherited form it may occur within a few months of birth or many years afterwards (as a complication of interstitial keratitis). We are now dealin"' only with the iritis of acquired syphilis, which is commonly met with from three to eight months after infection, and forms up- wards of 50 per cent, of all the cases of iritis. It is, however, when compared with syphilitic affections of the throat or skin, present in only a small proportion of cases. It varies greatly in severity, may attack both eyes, or only one; and in the former case there is often an interval of a few weeks or more between the onset of the disease on the two sides. The chief symptoms are (1) ciliary congestion with a certain amount of pain referred to the forehead or temple, photophobia, and lachrymation; (2) discoloured iris, sluggish action of the pupil, which dilates irregularly under atropine; (3) adhesions to the lens, deposit of uveal pigment, nodules of lymph in or on the iris. The congestion, pain, and photophobia are less marked in syphilitic than in rheumatic iritis; there is little tendency to re- lapse in the former, and if definite lymph nodules or small gummata are present, they are conclusive as to the cause being syphilis. The treatment consists in the vigorous use of atropine until the pupil is widely dilated, and in pushing mercury to the verge of producing salivation or sponginess of the gums. The affected eye should be protected from light during the acute stage, and if the pain be severe, blistering the temple, or the use of opium or antipyrin internally, may be required. If only proper treatment be adopted early enough, there are few diseases so satisfactory to treat as syphilitic iritis, perfect vision being probably regained; but if neglected, complete loss of sight, owing to blocking of the pupil, secondary cataract, etc., is liable to occur. 2. Choroiditis may come on independently of iritis, or as a later complication of the latter, and may give rise to no subjective symptoms, especially as it is essentially peripheral, i.e. confined to that part of the choroid coat farthest away from the optic disc. The importance of careful ophthalmoscopic examination in any doubtful case of old syphilis, as well as search for iritic adhesions, cannot be overrated. Small patches of inflammatory cell-exudation in the capil- laiy layer of the choroid, which atrophy, leaving white or grey areas, surrounded often by deep black pigment, the patches being scattered about the periphery, and at a deeper level than the retinal vessels —such are the characteristic features of syphilitic choroiditis. Some- times, however, the disease occurs in large or small patches towards the central or yellow spot region, and may then produce grave defect of vision, since the retina overlying the affected choroid is nearly always much damaged.