331 filabia sanguinis iiominis. regions where the disease is endemic, the operation of removal is often oerformed by the local barber, the worm being gradually extracted by windin" it around a stick for several days. The mam precaution necessary is care against rupturing the worm, and embrvos in the subcutaneous tissue: an accident readily occuiring, and usually followed by the development of severe inflammation and suppuration. Plorton recommends the internal administration of tincture of asafcetida in 5j to 5ij doses, which, he says, kills the worm and contained embryos, and allows of their safe extraction. XIV. FILARIA SANGUINIS HOMINIS. JEtiolOgy.—This is a nematode worm {Filaria Bancrofti), which, ffainin" entrance to the body, migrates into the lymphatic vessel^ and produces numerous embryos. The latter pass into the Ij-mph stream and thence into the general circulation. In certain cir- cumstances the embryos give rise to lymphatic obstruction, and the consequent development of lymph scrotum, elephantiasis, chyluria, or chylous serous effusions. _ • ht • • TliG parasite is met with, in China, Japan, India, Mauiitius, Bermuda, West Indies, Guiana, Brazil, Queensland, Malay Penin- sula, Egypt, Zanzibar, West Coast of Africa, United States, Tahiti, New Caledonia, Madagascar, and South of England (Manson). The young worm is probably ingested with drinking water, bores its way from the stomach, and eventually selects a spot—most commonly in the distal lymphatics of the extremities—as a per- manent resting-place. Thence the embryos are discharged, the parent worm living an almost indefinite time j thus, cases are on record in which symptoms persisted twenty-eight, thirty-two, and even fifty years (Roberts; Manson). One pair of worms appears sufficient to produce all the symptoms of the presence of the parasite, but a number may be present; thus, in a case re- ported by Maitland, three male and five female worms were dis- covered coiled up in a mass, apparently within a lymphatic channel. Circumstances have not up to the present allowed an exact descrip- tion of the male worm, which long remained undiscovered. The female is about three and a half inches in length, of an inch in breadth, uniform in calibre. The head is provided with a circular mouth and is destitute of papillaj. A narrow alimentary canal runs from the simple club-like head to within a short distance of the blunt-pointed tad, the remainder of the body being entirely occupied by the reproductive organs packed with numerous em- bryonic filarite. The reproductive outlet is close to the head. (Cobbold; Man.son). The embryo when born is enclosed in a shell or sheath, within which it may be either coiled up or extended, and which it retains pennanently while within the human body. This variation in form at birth is of extreme importance, the coiled embryo of oval shape mea- suring yiy X of an inch, while when uncoiled its measurements I* 2