INFLAMMATION. 68 cup IS leapplied, care being taken that the scarifications should not go thiough the whole thickness of the skin, otherwise retraction of ^e vessels will take place, and satisfactory bleeding will not occur. Haemorrhage can be subsequently promoted, if desired, by the use of warm fomentations. ^ The most useful method of local blood-letting in cases of super- ficial inflammation is the employment of incisions, which are of value not only in removing the congestion of the part by the bleeding, but also in permitting the exuded materials to escape, and thus diminish- ing the pressure on the blood-vessels and the consequent interference with the cii’culation of the blood. This method is of especial import- ance where the inflammation attacks dense tissues, and where the pressure of the exudation may completely arrest the circulation and lead to the occurrence of gangrene. For example, in cases of in- flammation of the periosteum, it is of extreme importance to make early and very free incisions through the inflamed tissues, otherwise necrosis of the superficial layers of the bone is very apt to occur. The congestion of the part may also be relieved by the employ- ment of cold. Cold applied to a part causes contraction of the blood- vessels, and over an inflamed area it will lead reflexly to the con- traction of the vessels going to that area. Cold, however, has a deleterious action in two ways. In the first place, it depresses the vitality of the part if too long applied and too intense, thus favouring the occurrence of gangrene ; while, secondly, it leads to slowing of the circulation through the part, as shown by the blueness of the fingers where the hands have been long exposed to cold. While it is desirable to diminish the quantity of blood coming to an inflamed part, it is not desirable to slow the circulation; on the contrary, it is of advantage that the circulation should be active in the part in order that the deletei’ious materials may be quickly carried away and diluted in the blood, either by means of the blood- vessels themselves, or by means of the lymphatic system. Hence, cold must be very judiciously applied in acute inflammations, and as a matter of fact, its use should be mainly limited to the early stage of the aflfection ; in the later stages it is very apt to precipitate gangrene. There are various methods in which cold may be employed. Where the degree of cold required is not great, some of the evapo- rating lotions are quite sufficient. For example, an evaporating lotion composed of chloride of ammonium (half an ounce), rectified spirits of wine (an ounce), to eight ounces of water, acts extremely well, a piece of rag being placed over the inflamed area and kept constantly wet with this lotion. Another very good lotion is the lead and opium lotion, consisting of the dilute liquor plumbi sub- acetatis, with ten to twenty minims of tincture of opium to the ounce. Where more efficient cold is required, dry cold must be employed, because it is less apt to lead to gangrene. This dry cold may be applied by means of ice contained in an indiarubber ice-bag, a piece of lint being placed between the bag and the skin in order to absorb