512 INJUME8 OF BL00D-VF88Eh8. These are the changes which can be observed witli the naked eye. The minute processes appear to be as follows :—The vessels in the outer coats of the artery dilate, and an exudation of serum and leucocytes occurs from them which infiltrates the coats of the artery and the contained clot. Following this exudation, and apparently resulting from it, the connective tissue-cells of the artery rapidly proliferate, and the plasma cells thus formed pass into the clot, first of all at its attachment to the end of the vessel—the central clot— and later at other points of its circumference, the cells passing through the'coats of the artery in more or less vertical columns. At the same time the endothelium lining the tunica intima undei'goes rapid hyperplasia until it forms a layer many cells deep. This liyperplasia extends as far as the internal clot; the cells resulting from it seal over the outer surface and fine end of the clot, and, together with those coming from the outer coats of the vessel, wander into the clot, passing along the intercommunicating fissures and spaces in the clot which result from the contraction of the clot, and which appear to have some relation with the nodal points around which the fibrin forms. Concurrently with this infiltration of the clot with these plasma cells, the red coi’puscles are found to be dis- integrated, and they are ultimately absorbed, and the clot is replaced by “lymph.” This plastic lymph organises into a vascular connec- tive tissue, which gradually becomes more fibrous and less vascular, and shrinks and blends with the surrounding cicatrix. Concurrently with these changes, the muscular tissue of the artery slowly dis- appears, and at length there is little left to mark the site of the artery but a vascular fibrous cord. The vascularisation of the clot is brought about in a very interesting way. As mentioned above, a series of intercommunicating fissures appear in the clot, and those on the surface open into the lumen of the vessel. Through these communications blood is forced from the artery; the spaces receive a lining from the endothelial cells, and later new capillaries con- nect them with the vasa-vasorum of the vessel wall. The cicatricial tissue which replaces the wounded artery receives its blood supply, therefore, partly from the blood in the artery itself and partly from the vasa-vasorum. In an artery the stream is from the vessel ■, in a vein it is probable that the stream is towards the vessel. This fact is important. The organising clot is traversed by blood channels rather than distinct vessels, in which the blood pressure is equal to that in the artery, and this is why the healing process in an artery may be interrupted, and secondary haemorrhage occur, even apart from septic infection and inflammatory disintegration. In the healing of a lateral wound or puncture in an artery, the scar is formed in the same way; but being exposed to the full force of the blood stream, it is exceedingly liable to be torn through befoie development has advanced, or subsequently to yield, and to form an The healing of a wounded vein diffei’s Imt vei’y little from the •same process in an arfceiy. When a vein is severed the process is