ATHEEOMA. 555 arteritis, ending in permanent obliteration of the vessel, ensue. But if the embolus is infective—e.g. a portion of fibrin containing mici’o cocci washed from an aortic valve in a case of ulcerative endocarditis— an acute infiammation of the artery ensues, which often ends in suppuration, and this is the explanation of the abscesses which occur in the course of ulcerative endocarditis and pyaemia. The arteritis may, however, stop short of suppuration, and merely cause softening of the arterial wall. Then, under the pressure of the blood, the artery yields, forming an aneurysm, or it may burst and occasion haemorrhage. Idiopathic aneurysm in children and young people is probably always due to the softening eflect of an irritant embolus; and some aneurysms in older patients are caused in the same way. Tliis form of arteritis occasionally occurs in the course of acute rheumatism. 4. Atheroma, arteritis deformans, chronic endarteritis.— These names denote a chronic sub-infiammatory disease of the arteries, which is so common in old persons as to have been regarded as a constant effect of old age. The inflammatory products always undergo fatty or calcareous degeneration, and it has sometimes been considered a degeneration of arteries rather than an inflammation. But the disease is distinctly inflammatory in nature, and in its most intense form has been described by Cornil and Eanvier as acute endarteritis. All grades of intensity between this form of the disease and the least intense, which most nearly resembles a de- generation, are met with. Causes.—Old age is the predisposing cause of atheroma, by lessening the power in the arteries to withstand the strain of the circu- lation and the the pressure of the blood within them. The exciting cause of the disease is mechanical strain, and we therefore find that all conditions which increase this strain tend to induce atheroma. The disease is more frequent in men than women, and in those whose occupation or habits expose them to sudden and severe or prolonged effort. Plethora acts in a similar way, and on the other hand, wasting disease protects from atheroma. The obstruction to the flow of blood through the arterioles from arterio-capillary fibrosis, or from spasm of the arterioles, which occurs in chronic renal disease with contracted kidney, by raising the blood pressure in the arteries excites this disease. Gout leads to atheroma, chiefly by causing renal disease and arterio-capillary change, but possibly also in this dyscrasia the blood itself acts as an irritant. Alcoholic excess is an important cause of chronic endarteritis, partly from the direct irritant influence of the alcohol, partly from the chronic renal disease it sets up, and partly from the cardiac excitement it induces. Syphilis has been asserted to cause atheroma, but this is doubtful: if, however, there is widespread syphilitic endarteritis of the smaller vessels, the obstruction to the circulation thus induced may lead to atheroma. at syphilis has any more direct influence in exciting the disease has not been proved. The distrihxhtion of the disease is strong evidence of the influence S 2i