883 EPIPHYSITIS. changes as in osteosclerosis. (^See page 873 and Fig.^ 342.) Pliere is a tuberculous variety of osteomyelitis which Is, as a rule, chronic or sub-acute in its progress, and often terminates in the so-called “ chronic abscess of bone.” This will be described under Tuberculous Disease of Bone (page 889). EPIPHYSITIS. Acute epiphysitis is an infective disease of the same nature as that already described under acute necrosis and acute osteo- myelitis, occurring in the epiphysial end of a long bone frequently opening into the adjacent joint, but rarely extending along the shaft. Many of the cases recorded by T. Smith as “ acute arthritis of infants ” were cases of this disease. {See also Article XXXIII., on Diseases OF Joints.) Patliology anti aetiology. — In most instances it is impossible to trace the origin of the infection. In babies a few weeks old it might possibly arise as a pysemic process during the separation of the umbilical cord. In older children the ulcerated throat of scarlet fever or diphtheria may in a similar manner give rise to this affection. It must be re- membered that in acute necrosis and osteomyelitis we are often unable to trace the source from which infection has arisen. There does not seem to be any clear reason why this disease should be separated from those just named, except that its occurrence is almost confined to infants and young children. The acute inflammatory infiltration may involve the whole epiphysis and cause its necrosis. It may spread across the axis of the bone, along the epiphysial line, and cause the separation of the epiphysis from the shaft. Pus may open laterally through the periosteum, with- out involving the joint; but in certain joints, e.g. the hip, it must necessarily also in doing so make its way into the articulation. The pus may open through the articular cartilage directly into the joint (Fig. 335), or extend some distance into the medullary canal of the shaft. On the other hand, it occasionally works its way along the surface of the shaft away from the joint. Symptoms.—The mother first notices that the child keeps one limb absolutely at rest, whilst the others are thrown about in a normal manner. On examination an extremely tender swelling is found close to one or other joint of that limb. In the first instance, the joint is itself not involved, but may rapidly become so in the course of a few days. The centre of the swelling is over the epiphysial line of one of the bones forming the articulation, and i.s, Fig. 335.—Acute Epiphysitis of Femur opening into Knee Joint. Prom an infant one month old. (Prom St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 442.)