iNJumS OP BL00D-V]^881<JLB. sl-t sufficient. But in many of the cases where pressure is or may be applied, the conditions are just the reverse of tliis. Tlie wounded vessel—probably an artery—is surrounded by a thiclc mass of soft elastic tissue, and the pressure to act efficiently through this has to be very great, and must of necessity render anaemic all the tissue between the compress and the artery; and as the compress is usually fixed in place by a circular bandage, this involves the entire arrest of the circulation in the limb. The dangers incident to the use of pressure are two—the conver- sion of an open into a concealed haemorrhage, and the production of gangrene. When a pad is placed over a wound from which arterial blood is flowing, and it does not entirely close the bleeding vessel, the blood continues to escape, and collects around the artery until the resistance of the tissues equals the pressure of the blood ; in this way the concealed haemorrhage has produced a traumatic aneurysm. It must also be remembered that the pressure in such a collection of blood is very great—as many times greater than the pressure -with which the blood escapes from the artery as the area of the blood tumour exceeds the area of the artery opening into it. This pressure often becomes so great that it displaces the pad, and then renewed external hsemorrhage occurs. For example: in a case of lisemorrhage from the socket of an extracted tooth, pressure to be effectual must be applied to the bleedmg artery by a plug passed quite to the bottom of the socket. If the plug be merely fitted over the top of the alveolus, this quickly fills with blood and becomes a miniature Bramah press, the plug is displaced, and the hsemorrhage continues. The gangrene may be local, due to the pressure of a firm pad; where a graduated compress is used for the treatment of wound of the palmar arch, sloughing of the palm is liable to occur. But the gangrene may be total if a tight constricting bandage is placed around a limb so firmly as to arrest all circulation for many hours. It follows, therefore, that pressure should only he used as a per- manent haemostatic in the following circumstances :— . (а) In cases of capillary oozing and parenchymatous hsemorrhage, where the pressure required does not imperil the vitality of the tissues : e.g. a cut finger or the oozing from cutaneous flaps. (б) In cases of hsemoi-rhage from a superficial vein, where, again, only slight pressure is needed to close the vessel and resist the force of the blood : e.g. a burst varicose vein, or after plilebotomy. (c) In cases of arterial hsem&rrhage from a bony cavity, in which the pressure, if applied to the vessel itself, easily controls it, and does not act injuriously upon the bone : e.g. hasmorrhage from the socket of a tooth, or after removal of carious or necrosed bone. Ul) In cases of htemorrhage from the walls of cysts or hollow organ^ which cannot be otherwise controlled; here the compress must be applied directly to the bleeding vessel, and the whole cyst ti"htly filled: e.g. bleeding from an opened cystic bronchocele, some cases of ovarian cyst; plugging the uterus for hsemorrhage comes under this head. The end of a long strip of lint or gauze must be carried