162 ERYSIPELAS. due to extension along Stenson’s duct. Erysipelas of the penis may spread to the urethra and bladder. Erysipelas of the female genitals (ei’ysipelas puerperale) may spread to the uterus, Fallopian tubes, and peritoneum. From wounds of the abdominal walls erysipelas may spread by extension to the peritoneum, or, after injuries to the head, from the scalp to the meninges. The streptococcus of erysipelas may enter the blood in such quantities as to cause fatal septiciemia. In a case of this kind I found the streptococcus in the blood of the right auricle (Fig. 26). Pymmia is a frequent cause of death in erysipelas. It is more frequent in the cellulo-cutaneous and cellular varieties. It is due to the entrance of pyogenic organisms, especially of streptococci, into the circulation, and their subsequent passage from the circula- tion into the tissues. In a case of T olkmann’s it was thought that a clot in the crural vein had become infected from an erysipelatous wound (Gussenbauer). Acute nephritis is a common complication of erysipelas. As a rule, it is transient and leaves no ill-effects. It is revealed by the occurrence of a cloud of albumen in the urine. In drunkards it is to be remembered that there may be chronic parenchymatous nephritis. The acute nephritis may occasionally end in fatal uraemia. Con- gestion of the other abdominal organs may occur in erysipelas, and there may be enlargement of the spleen and of the liver. Bronchial catarrh, pneumonia, and pleurisy are possible compli- cations of erysipelas. Pleurisy is said to be commonest in erysipelas of the chest wall. Pneumonia is a dangerous complication, and may attack one or both lungs. It may establish itself without cough or pain, and may therefore be overlooked. The pneumonia is of the croupous variety. As in other diseases of the same^ type, hypo- static congestion and mdema of the lungs are met with in erysipelas. Inflammations of the other serous membranes, of the pericardium, peritoneum, or arachnoid, are occasional complications of erysipelas. The frequency of delirium in erysipelas probably led to the belief that meningitis is commoner than it really is. As a rule, meningitis is due to the inflammation spreading directly through a fracture of the skull, or through the orbit. Prognosis.—The prognosis of simple cutaneous erysipelas is favourable. Out of 875 cases treated in St. Bartholomew s Hospital, 31 died (3-5 per cent, nearly). The mortality was rather less amongst females than amongst males; 10 out of 391 females ^ed (..-57 pei cent.), whilst 21 out of 484 males died (4-3 per cent.), ^le mortality from phlegmonous erysipelas and cellulitis is far greater than that fiom simple cutaneous erysipelas. Out of 889 cases of pWegmonous ep- sipelas and cellulitis treated in St. Bartholomew s Hospital, 99 die (11-1 per cent, about). Out of 685 males, 80 died (11'6 per cent, about) ; and out of 204 females, 19 died (about 9-0 per cent.). _ihe preponderance of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas m males is explauied by their greater liability to injury. Neglected and lacerated ivoiinds