DISEASES OF NERVES. 702 Tlie changes in the bones are of more importance, and are also more characteristic. In typical cases they are worn down to an extent never seen in osteo-arthritis, and are, moreover,^ often simply worn down without any new bone being produced, as is common in the latter disease. In typical cases, the whole head of the femur or humerus, the condyles of the femur, or the head of the tibia are ground down and destroyed, as if they had been rubbed away by a grindstone or a file (Fig. 195). It is this extensive destruction of bone even more than the wearing away of the ligaments which must be held accountable for the dislocations and undue mobility above mentioned. But whilst the above changes may rightly be considered as typical of cer- tain cases of tabetic arthropathy, it must be allowed that in some examples of this affec- tion the destruction of bone is not so rapid or so complete as here described j and whilst no new bone at all is formed in some cases, in many others very large masses of bone are formed in the substance of the synovial mem- brane, and may attain a much greater size than those seen more commonly in osteo- arthritic joints. ^ Sysnptoms—The diagnosis of Charcots disease rests mainly on the existence of disease of the spinal cord, associated with painless swelling and loss of power in the affected joint. As regards the former, the symptoms of tabes may be briefly enumerated, and may be divided into those noticed by the patient and those perceived on examination by the surgeon. Pains in the limbs of a shooting character- so-called “ lightning pains ”—and other pains. or ■Pig.196.—Charcot’s Disease of the liuee. variously described as boring, cutting, shooting, are of frequent occurrence. “ Girdle pains and the sensation of constriction round the waist are less frequent. Numbness or partial loss of sensation in the feet is less common. Sudden and uncontrollable desire to evacuate the contents of the bladder or to empty the rectum is of occasional occurrence, and attacks of vonnting without cause “o-astric crises’’—may also occur. Inco-ordinations of the lower extremities-“locomotor ataxy ”—is a very characteristic feature ot the disease, but in many patients it does not conie on in a markert form until late, though the patient may have noticed that m bad li„li his footing was insecure. V arious symptoms may have been notmert about the eyes. Thus, there may have been occasmnally a squint, or vision may be impaired, or actual blindness maj have resulted.