hU INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. wliich lias severed the inner and middle coats of an artery, by leaving the thin outer coat unsupported at a time when the healing process is not sufficiently advanced to withstand the blood pressure, is another occasional cause of secondary hsernorrhage. Idiopathic secondary Inemorrhage occurs in all cases from dis- integration of the arterial wall by septic arteritis. It is met with in abscesses, ulcers, and infected wounds opening into a neighbouring artery. Thus we may enumerate the causes of secondary haemorrhage as follows :—(1) Septic infection or sloughing of the artery, due to infection of the wound, of the ligature, or of the blood clot; (2) yielding of an arterial cicatrix ; (3) division of the inner coats of an artery, weakening its walls; (4) advanced disease of the arterial wall; (5) cachexia, haemophilia, chronic renal disease, diabetes; (6) plethora; (7) increased force of the ventricular contractions ; (S) punctured wound or incomplete division of an artery ; (9) proximity to the ligature of a large branch; (10) special thinness of the outer coat of an artery; (11) wound of a branch arising just below a ligature in continuity ; (12) faulty ligature. As the cause of secondary hsernorrhage is in all cases a change in the wall of an ai'tery, causing it to yield to the internal blood pressure, it often happens that the bleeding is preceded by an aneurysmal dilatation of the end of the vessel. This is well seen in the case of hsernorrhage from phthisical lung cavities, where arteritis ■ is the cause of the bleeding, and is usually attended with marked aneurysmal dilatation of the vessel before the bleeding occurs. This occurrence of aneury-sm must not be confused with the bulbous form of a tied artery, which is due to the contraction of the artery above the tied end from lessening of its function; the actual tied part cannot at once contract, because it is fiUed with clot. Secondary hsernorrhage very often occurs from the distal side of an artery ligated in its continuity. Various reasons have been given for this. It has been stated that the application of a ligature must necessarily intei'fere with the vasa vasorum supplying the vessel wall immediately below it, while it need not affect at all those supplying the vessel above it. Again, the internal clot is smaller and later in being formed on the distal than the proximal side of a ligature. Another and probably more important explanation lies in the fact that the obstruction offered by the capillaries of a part is greater than that offered by the anastomosing channels through which the blood flows when a main artery is tied. The blood pressure in the artery above the ligature is determined by the obstruction offered by the channels of anastonrosis; but the blood pressure in the artery below the ligature is determined by the obstruction offered by the capillaries of the part it supplies. The pressure may, therefore, be greater in the artery on the distal than on the proximal side ot a of sccoiidaiy Biaiiuorihasre.—Secondary haimorrhage is always caused by progressive molecular disintegration