VARICOSE VEINS. 573 important factor., This increased pressure may be brought about by several causes. It may be due to (jeneral venous obstruction fiom chronic heart or lung disease, or to local obstruction from the pressure of a tumour, as the pregnant uterus, or ot an 11-fatting truss, oi ol a ti"ht "arter It is believed that defect in the valves of a vein may have the same result. The valves are of use in breaking up the veins into segments, each of which is to some extent relieved from the weight of the column of blood above it. When a valve is absent or useless by over-distension of the vein, or rupture of the valve, the segment below loses the relief it would otherwise obtain and it may yield under the extra strain thrown upon it. The increased supply ot blood to a part, which occurs in inflammation, chronic ulceration, or proloimed muscular action, also raises the intravenous pressure. Gravity, too, may play an important part, for although the column of blood in the veins of the lower limb is supported by that in the arteries, yet the pressure of the blood upon the vessels is increased by gravity and is greatest at the lower end of the column. Occupa- tions that entail prolonged standing or walking are believed to predispose to varix. This is attributed partly to the influence of gravity, partly to the compression of the deep veins by the con- tracted muscles forcing more blood into the superficial vessels, and partly to the additional blood supply attending prolonged muscular action. Aye and sex.—Varicose veins are rare in children. They most often develop between the ages of puberty and full manhood, but many cases are not noticed until after thirty years of age. The disease is probably more common in men than women; but, owing to the fre- quency with which pregnancy increases the fulness of, and the pain in, the v'eins, women apply for treatment more frequently than men. The influence of heredity is marked. In some cases every member of a family is afiected and it is seen in two or three successive genera- tions ; and not only so, but the aflection will sometimes present the same local characters in several members of a family, the same vein or the same part of a vein being attacked. The disease occurs in the robust and well-developed more often than in the puny and weakly, in those who lead a sedentary occupation, as well as in the active. It attacks all classes and, as we have seen, it comes on most often during the later stages of growth, when the organism is reaching maturity, and not when the vessels are becoming worn out by the strain of life. These facts render it exceedingly probable that tlie real cause of varix is an inherited tendency to over-development of veins, or perhaps to some defect in the veins. The upright position of man appears to be an important factor, for the disease is vastly more common in the lower limbs than elsewhere ; and we may therefore regard varix as the result of the special strain thrown upon the veins of the lower limbs by the upright position of men influencing and transmitted through countless generations. Constipation has been thought to lead to varix by the loaded colon pressing upon the iliac veins. There is no sufiicient evidence