866 DISLOCATIONS. thorax (scapula alata). This was formerly atti-ibuted to the bone slipping from under the latissimus dorsi muscle, but is now known to be generally due to paralysis of the serratus magnus or rhom- boids, from “ infantile paralysis ” or nerve injuries. When the serratus contracts it draws forwards the vertebral border of the scapula; and as the inferior digitations are far the stronger, the lower angle of the scapula is especially rotated forwards, thus raising the superior angle and aiding the functions of the levator anguli scapulae and trapezius. The most important action of the serratus is to bind the scapula firmly to the ribs, and thus to fix that bone while the deltoid raises the arm. When the serratus is paralysed, the arm cannot be elevated. Efforts on the part of the patient to do so, only cause increased projection of the vertebral border and inferior angle of the scapula, which assumes a very peculiar and characteristic appearance. No treatment beyond a padded belt, fitting over the scapula round the thorax, and supported by shoulder-straps, is of any great use. The nerve conditions should, of course, receive consideration and treatment. Dislocations of the shoulder. Causation.—The exposed position of the shoulder-joint, the shallowness of its articular sur- face, the laxity of the capsule, and the powerful leverage exerted through the long humerus, cause displacements of this articulation to be more common than those of any other joint in the body. The majority of these dislocations are caused by indirect violence, as falls on the elbow or hand, whnn the^.limb is abducted, and the position of the long axis of the humerus at the moment of displace- ment largely determines the course and position of the head of the bone. Direct violence, as heavy falls or blows on the shoulder, is asserted to cause dislocation, though it is difficult to understand how this can occur; and muscular action, as striking out at and missing an adversary, swimming, the convulsive efforts of epilepsy, or even such slight efibrts as the act of sneezing, have been known to produce displacement. Exceptional causes of dislocation are dragging upon the limb by the pulling of a runaway horse, or the twisting of an entangled upper limb by revolving machinery. Congenital dis- placements are sometimes met with, and pathological displacements also, in chronic rheumatism or pyremic disease. Classification.—Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the comparative frequency of these displacements. The majority of surgeons in England will endorse the following classification, which is similar to that founded on an extensive inspection of museum specimens by Holmes and Hulke : (1) Dislocation forwards and a little downwards—SMbcoracord. (2) Dislocation downwards and a little forwards— (3) Dislocation forwards and inwards—subclavicular. (4) Backwards—subspinous. (5) Upwards and forwai’ds—srr^rr-acoracord.