FYAiMIA. 186 Treatment.—The treatment of pyo3mia is preventive and cura- tive. The preventive treatment of pyaemia mainly consists in the correct practice of antiseptic surgery. The only case of pyaemia which I have had was after an amputation for an acute osteomyelitis of the femur. In this it had undoubtedly arisen before the opera- tion. Cases of suppuration of any kind are to be isolated as I'ar aa possible, and all who are in contact with them taught the dangers of the conveyance of infection from them. These remarks apply with greater force to cases of pyaemia. Some of the dangers of infarction and embolism may be obviated by keeping the patient absolutely at rest. I have seen a fatality which seemed directly caused by neglect of this precaution. The curative treatment of pyaemia is exceedingly unsatisfactory— drugs are of no avail Full doses of quinine help to diminish the severity of the rigors. Every effort should be made to sustain the strength with concentrated and peptonised foods, and with alcohol. The latter may be administered in considerable quantities in the form of brandy, port, burgundy, or champagne. If pain be severe, ano- dynes may be given to relieve it and induce sleep. Abscesses should be opened early whenever they occur in accessible places. A pyaemic abscess is a new focus from which a fresh invasion of micrococci and of ptomaines may enter the blood. The most rigorous attempts should be made to open up and disinfect the focus of infection. When this is in the tympanum or mastoid antrum the internal jugular vein should also be exposed in the neck and ligature if there be evidence that there is a septic clot in the lateral sinus. Mr. Glutton has published a case of this kind which recovered, although abscesses had formed in some of the joints. When the pyaemia is due to acute infective osteomyelitis, amputation ought, in some cases, to be performed, especially if there be no evidence of abscesses or infarcts in internal organs. The suppurating joints ought to be incised and drained. This is usually followed by relief, and does not necessarily end in anky- losis should the patient eventually recover. Should the suppurative arthritis have damaged the joint irretrievably it would be better to amputate the limb than to run the risks of prolonged suppuration. To prevent pathological dislocations and displacements of the joints, the limbs ought to be put in suitable splints and apparatus. Whatever incisions or operations are performed in pyaemia, should be done under the usual antiseptic precautions. Although the abscesses contain pyogenic cocci, yet they are capable of being infected with other bacteria. In chronic pyaemia similar principles are to be followed. Abscesses should be opened, but there is less need of haste in performing amputation or incision. The further danger of dam^e to the kidneys, as evidenced by albuminuria, and of amyloid de- generation of them and other organs, has also to be reckoned with. In chronic pyaemia sea-air sometimes works wonders.