TREATMENT OF COMFOOND FBAOTUBES. 781 after amputation; more than 90 per cent, would regain a sound limb. It is worth noting also that of the 36 cases in which joints were implicated, 7 were treated by primary amputation, and of these 3 (knee cases) died; 2 needed secondary amputation, and 3 were excised. These, and all othei’ cases treated conservatiiely, recovered* Lastly, it is interesting to examine the complications wliich arose in the 228 cases treated conservath'ely. Pytemia, septicaemia, and tetanus each proved fatal once; the septicsemic case had also delirium tremens. Erysipelas occurred 11 times (4'82 per cent.), with no death; cellulitis, 1; suppuration of a knee joint, 1 (fatal); secondary haemorrhage happened 4 times; necrosis, 13 (5 /0 per cent.); and gangrene of skin, 1. Every one of these complications is due to failure in the antiseptics; unfortunately it is not stated how often suppuration occurred. Non-union probably occurred in four cases, and an arterial haematoma in one. Treves has recently recommended a very simple method of treat- ment, which has yielded surprisingly good results. The points in it are the following :—The limb is cleansed, the fracture reduced, and splints applied as soon as possible. The splints are wooden, well padded, and fixed with webbing bands and buckles, without bandages. The limb is always kept exposed to the air, to avoid contact with the hot, moist and foul air of the bed. The wound is dressed w^ith a little heap of diy antiseptic powder—iodoform or creolin, the latter being preferable; more is dusted on as the powder becomes soaked, but the original crust is not disturbed for a week or more. In six years (1886-1892) Treves thus treated 61 cases—being aU which did not die within twenty-four hours, which were not amputated at once, or which were not irrigated. Mr. Treves tells me that only cases in which he should otherwise have amputated at once were irrigated. Among the above 61, bone was sawn off in three cases, and in four instances delirium tremens developed. Of the 61 cases, 49 (80'32 per cent.) recovered without suppuration; 12 (19'67 per cent.) sup- purated, 5 (8-2 per cent.) so badly that secondary amputation was done, without a death. All cases which suppurated wei’e due to direct violence. One patient, a man of 69, died on the 2Sth day apparently of some chronic septic poisoning, his wound having healed per prvmam. Erysipelas occurred twice (3’27 per cent.); necrosis three times (4‘91 per cent.). The numbers are small; but of every 100 cases thus treated, 1‘64 per cent, would die, 80-35 per cent, would recover without suppuration, 19'67 per cent, after sup- puration, and of the latter 8‘2 per cent, would have undergone secondary amputation. The method appears to depend for its efficiency upon—(1) the drying up of discharge into a scab or paste too thick to serve as a soil for bacteria; (2) upon the antiseptic power of the powder used; (3) upon the immobility secured, and the drainage—more or less free, according to the si-ze of the wound—which is permitted. With regard to (2), we know of no reliable examination of the antiseptic