223 treatment. nncl a lai-e drainage-tube inserted. In these circumstances, I do not think°it advisable to wash out the wound with any antiseptic because by that means there is no chance of getting nd of septic ooLution^ and the injury *o the surface of the wound may actually enable the organisms to penetrate rise to braver local and general phenomena. It is only in cases where wounds are large, and where the symptoms are due to septic intoxication, that I think washing out the wounds is good Facti^ There, of course, it is essential that the putrefying rnaterial in the wound should be got rid of as soon and as completely as possible, and in such cases the washing out of the wound is U to remove these poisonous substances mechanically ; and, theretore, it may be carried out with plain water or bor- acic lotion quite as effect- ually, and with much less dis- advantage to the patient, than by the use of strong antiseptic solu- tions. As to the subsequent dressing of a wound which has become septic, I think, unless there be . i . r much pain and swelling, that it is well to continue the sort oi dressings already described ; but where there is much swelling and pain relief will be obtained by employing dressings which partake of the character of fomentations. The antiseptic material whether it be cyanide gauze or boracic lint, or other substance is wrung out of warm lotions, and outside this a layer of mackintosh over- lapping it in all directions is applied, with a layer of wool outside. I think it is well in most cases to employ antiseptic material for the purpose of these fomentations, or for the dressings, because, although bacteria have already entered, it is possible that the kind which has got in is not so virulent as others which might get in, and while by continuing the antiseptic dressings we do not influence those which have already entered, we may possibly prevent the Fig. 40.—Section through a small Sore which had i emaped un- healed for many months. It will be seen that epithehum has spread in along one side of the sore. On dissecting away the invested part and uniting the edges the sore healed at once. entrance of worse forms. It is of importance to remember, where the edges of the wound are not at the same level, that one side may be drawn in, or that epithelium may spread down one side, and when this occurs the raw