JDANGERS OF ANESTHESIA. •283 Abdominal operations.—In most cases ether may be employed. When once the ^patient is fully amesthetised, Ormsby s inhaler pio- Ice" better resulte tha.. Clover's. Jerky breathmg and venous engorgement may be due to (1) too great a restriction of aii, (2) too much°ether, or (3) some easily remedied obstruction about the mouth or pharynx. Should any delay arise in securing tranquil respiiatmn or Lmplete relaxation, chloroform should be substituted, care being taken to administer this amesthetic in small quantities so long as respiration remains quick and forcible. Generally speaking, a deep anesthesia should be maintained throughout, in to avmd ric^idity, retching, and coughing. In most cases of intestinal obstruc- tion however, a deep anaesthesia is usually contra-indicated, owiii to the patient’s exhausted condition. In such cases it is important that the head should be kept on its side throughout, for vomiting may occur very quietly ; and if the head be in the mid-lme, asphyxial symptoms of a grave character may arise. Operations upon the genito-urinary organs and rectum. Very deep anesthesia is needed in these cases. For lithotrity and supra- pubic cystotomy in fat or elderly subjects, the A.C.E. mixture usually answers well. Am? Operations upon the brain and %ts membranes.—Ihe A.U.ii. mixtui-e or chloroform should be chosen, owing to the turgid state of the vessels under ether. {See Method 12, page 280.) 4. The difficulties, accidents, and dangers of general anaesthesia. 1. Eespieatory. {a) Difficulties in or failure of respiration, due to the presence of some mechanical obstruction to the fl'CG cuti*y oi’ exit of —lM6cli£tTiicH(lly“ol3stjriic't6d. DiG3.tliiiig during anaesthesia is more common than is generally supposed. As examples the following conditions may be cited. The lips of eden- tulous subjects may become approximated, thereby preventing inspii-ation. The tongue may obstruct respiration in three ways ; it may become greatly enlarged from vascular engorgement; it may be drawn backwards by muscular spasm (as in deglutition) during the stage of rigidity preceding deep anaesthesia ; or it may gravitate towards the pharyngeal wall when the head is in the mid-line and the muscular system relaxed. Pre-existing inadequacy of the nasal passages greatly favours the supervention of embarrassed breathing, especially in muscular subjects with good teeth. One of the com- monest causes of temporarily suspended breathing is partially per- formed deglutition, the larynx remaining pushed up against the epiglottis. Laryngeal spasm, known by inspiratory stridor of high pitch, is common in moderately deep ansesthesia. It is often con- nected with the presence of a plug of mucus within the larynx or with a small quantity of blood, and subsides after a few coughs. The spasm may, however, be reflex—due to the operation. The condition is not dangerous ■under ether ; but the impeded respiration