III. SUPPUEATION. By W. WATSON CHEYNE, F.R.S., P.R.O.S., Surgeon to King’s College Hospital; Professor of Surgery at King's College. In the previous article the subject of acute inflammation up to the point of granulation was considered. The present chapter is connected with the study of what happens when the inflammation continues after this stage: namely, with the consideration of suppuration. By acute suppuration we mean an inflammatory process which goes on to the production of a fluid, which is termed pus. This process of suppuration may occur either on a free surface or in the depths of the tissues; and it is with the latter that we shall deal in the first instance. Where acute suppuration occurs in the substance of the tissues, it may assume two aspects: in the one the pus is found in a closed, fairly well-defined cavity, the circumscribed acute abscess; in the other the pus mfilti’ates the cellular tissues with- out any proper circumscription—the condition known as diffuse cellulitis. I. CIRCUMSCRIBED ACUTE ABSCESS. Pus.—A circumscribed abscess is a cavity containing a fluid which is called pus, the surrounding wall being composed of embryonic granulation tissue. Pus is an albuminous fluid, which is full of innumerable small corpuscles resembling in size and character the white corpuscles of the blood, these corpuscles being termed the pus corpuscles. Under the microscope these ptis corpuscles gene- rally contain lobate or tripartite nuclei, and in addition to these corpuscles some gi’anular matter may be noticed in the fluid. To the naked eye, normal pus presents the appearance of a creamy or yellowish-white fluid with an animal smell, a specific gravity of about 1030, and, some say, with a musty or sweet taste. Pus pre- senting these characteristics was formerly spoken of as laudable pus ; but we meet with several varieties of pus in varying circumstances. For instance, where it is mixed with blood, and especially where it is thin, due to the smaller number of corpuscles which it contains, it is spoken of as sanious pus. Again, it may contain various other