TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURE. 7G7 TREATMENT OF SIMPLE’ FRACTURES. First help.—-When a patient is knocked down and sustains a fracture of the lower limb, it happens only too often that the injury is rendered compound or complicated by an endeavour to rise and bear weight on the limb, or by improperly-managed lifting—the portion of the limb beyond the fracture being allowed to hang un- supported. In the case of the upper limb this danger is much less. Theoretically, then, a person whose lower extremity has been injured should be prevented from rising until it has been ascertained that at least the tibia and' femur are sound. Should there not be time for this, the patient should be lifted to a place of safety—one person taking charge of the inj^ired limb only. If the leg be injured it is best lifted by a person standing on its outer side, grasping it firmly above and below the point of injury, and raising it in one piece, at the same time maintaining shght “ extension” ; his elbows, bent at suitable angles, should, if possible, rest against the body; the lifting should be done by straightening the hips and back, and the extension by endeavouring to separate the hands grasping the limb. Should a fracture of the femur be found, one person should support the whole of the limb beyond the fracture, raising it pari passu with the body to prevent angular deformity, and maintaining some extension by traction from the body. Upper limb fractures are more easily dealt with, the limb being smaller and lighter; exactly the same rules apply when lifting is necessary. Shortly, the form of the limb should, as far as possible, be steadily preserved. Means of transport must often be found. Most patients after fractures of the upper limb can walk, supporting the limb with the other hand, or having more or less of the fore-arm supported by a pocket-handkerchief shng, or, in cases of fractured humerus, having the injured arm fixed closely to the side by the coat buttoned over it or laced up with string, the hand being brought out and supported between the buttons. But those with fractures of the lower limb should be carried. If anything like a stretcher can be arranged, it will be sufficient, even when the femur or tibia is broken, to fasten the broken limb to the sound with handkerchiefs, above and below the fracture, to prevent movement of the fragments. Should a tem- porary splint be thought desirable, something efficient can generally be found by one who knows what is required to be done. Stout newspapers folded, corrugated paper, trelliswork flower-pot holders (Fig. 225), an umbrella frame, straw bottle-cases, and bundles of straight slender branches are some of the many things which may temporarily I’eplace more orthodox splints. They must be applied firmly or they will be useless ; some will require padding with any available soft stuff. Cold must be specially guarded against during transport after an accident. Deliberate treatment.—The indications for treatment are :—