SYPHILIS. 404 articles of food prone to cause diarrhoea carefully avoided. Stimulants should be taken very sparingly, if at all, for there is no question that the free use of alcohol directly interferes with the action of mercury. Smoking must be forbidden if there are any sores on the throat, tongue, or lips. Should such ulcers develop, they should be painted once a day with chromic acid solution (10 to 20 grains to the ounce), or a similar solution of nitrate of silver. Gargles containin'^ bichloride of mercury to ^ grain to the ounce), chlorate of potash (10 grams to the ounce), or alum, may be useful in different con- ditions of the throat during the secondary stage. If the eruption be copious, or accompanied by infiltration of the skin, an ointment of the oleate of mercury (5 per cent.) should be rubbed in, avoiding its use over hairy parts or where the skin is delicate, as it may there cause pustules. Condylomata, wherever situated, are as a rule easily cured by cleanliness and the use of a powder of calomel one part, oxide of zinc three parts. Before applying this the surface of the condyloma must be thoroughly dried, and it is advisable to keep some absorbent wool between the adjacent skin folds, since moisture is an essential to the persistence and extension of this form of secondary eruption. Ulcers or fissures on the skin may be treated locally with an ointment containing one drachm of calomel or red oxide of mercury to the ounce, though not infrequently it will be found better to avoid ^■^7 gi’®^sy application, and to use either weak calomel powder, iodoform, or iodol (protecting the sores from irritation by absorbent wool and a light bandage). It is needless to say that the internal administration of mercury should be carried out in every case of condylomata, etc., as well as the local treatment. The hypodermic and inunction methods of treat- ment.—Especially on the Continent these are largely resorted to in preference to giving mercury by the mouth, for not very obvious reasons. At Aix-la-Chapelle, which is much visited by syphilitic patients, the chief treatment consists in systematic inunction of mer- curial ointment by experienced rubbers, combined with warm baths, and, in many cases, the administration of iodide of potassium. This plan can equally well be carried out by the patient at home if he will take the trouble. Half to one drachm or more of the ointment (B.P.) should be rubbed daily into pai’ts of the skin surface which will readily absorb it—e.g. the inner sides of arms or thighs, the abdomen. It is advisable to change the site of inunction frequently, for fear of causing dermatitis, and to avoid the hairy parts. A few days’ vigorous inunction will render the gums spongy, pro\dng the efficacy of the treatment; but it is a dirty and tiresome method, which often depresses the patient extremely. All kinds of mercurial preparations have been advocated for hypodermic injection. One of the best is a simple solution of the bichloride in distilled water. From one-tenth up to one-fourth of a grain of the bichloride, dissolved in thirty minims to a draclim of water, may be injected at intervals of a few days deeply into the