FROST-BITE. 137 the part become white; and if the cold have been continued for any considerable length of tunOj and the patient be then exposed to warmth, the vessels become greatly dilated, and stasis and thrombosis occur both in the parts affected, and sometimes also in the internal organs. Apart from the effects on the vessels, the vitality of the tissues themselves is very much diminished, and they are thus still more predisposed to the occurrence of gangrene. Various other changes have been described as the result of the action of cold, which may also have to do with some of its after effects. For example, it is stated that rupture of the vasa vasorum occurs, leading to imperfect nutrition of the blood-vessels and interstitial haemorrhage. Changes have also been described in the neiwes in the form of neuritis of an ascending character, and of degeneration of the nerve tubules, and these changes may to some extent explain the atrophy of the muscles, and, which is a striking after effect of exposure to cold, the formation of trophic ulcers, etc. As to the symptoms of excessive cold, we have both general and local effects. The general symptoms when a patient is exposed to cold air are, in the first place, increase in the rapidity of the circulation, increase in the pulse-beat, and a slight rise of temperature ; but as the exposure to cold continues, the temperature falls, an irresistible drowsiness comes on, the gait becomes staggering, respiration difiBcult, pulse slow, the patient lies down and soon passes into a state of coma and dies. As regards the local effects of cold, there are three degrees of frost-bite, the fii’st two being the same as the first two degrees of burns; and the third including the other forms or stages of burns. {See page 252.) In the first degree the part after exposure to cold becomes of a bright or dark red wine colour. This redness can be pressed away with the finger and is slow in returning, in fact the circulation through the part is much slower, and in addition the vessels of the part are dilated. The skin in this region swells and becomes cede- matous, and if exposed to heat there is intolerable itching. This effect will pass off in a few days if there be no further exposure to cold, but if it be repeated, the condition becomes chronic and we have the production of chilblains, which will be described in the article on Diseases of the Skin. In the second degree of frost-bite we have, in addition to this con- dition of erythema, the formation of blisters upon the surface of the skin, which contain bloody fluid and which are frequently followed by rapid idceration, and thus as a second result of cold we may have an acute spreading ulcer which is atonic and very slow in healing. In other cases, where the affection is more chronic, we have the condition of ulcerating chilblains, where the swollen cedematous skin cracks and forms shallow fissures covered with crusts. These fissures go on enlarging, forming obstinate ulcers, especially in strumous children and in those who wear tight boots.