TUBERCULOSIS. ;W2 bacillus. The tissues exhibit a characteristic inflammatory reaction in consequence. Caseation results ; then may follow suppuration. The object of the pus formation is evidently to rid the body of the dead or necrosed matter represented by the caseous substance. The pus finds a vent and the caseous matter is discharged, and then the sinus heals up and the trouble is—so far as that part is concerned— at an end. It is desirable to note that caseation precedes suppuration. The caseous material met with in tuberculosis is not inspissated pus. The tubercle bacillus is capable of inducing suppuration (pages 25 and 35). In large tuberculous abscesses it has been the only micro-organism found, and there has been an absence of the usual pyogenic cocci. Repair after the apparent healing of a tuberculous lesion is usually feeble and often insecure. The disease is over, the once-infected area is no longer infected, all progress in the way of destruction has ceased, but the restoration of parts is of the flimsiest. The healing in tuberculosis contrasts forcibly with the firm, soiind, solid cicatrix which follows after injury, and with the extensive and complete repair which commonly follows upon the removal of parts by operation. At the site of the tuberculous lesion there is no more done in the way of regeneration than is absolutely necessary. It thus happens that trouble is apt to recur at the site of an apparently healed tuberculous disease. A child has had hip disease, with ab- scesses. The sinuses have all closed, and the child is about again. Years go by, and then, after some little disturbance in health, the hip gives trouble again, sinuses re-open and discharge pus once more, and even after healing again there may be a second “breaking down.” Of this nature is the so-called “ residual abscess ”—the abscess which crops up again after months or years of apparent cure. It is called residual, because it probably has its starting-point in the residuum or remains of the original trouble. An example of the residual abscess is afforded by the abocess about a disabled hip, as already mentioned. It may also be illustrated by such a case as this : A child of twelve had caries of the spine and a psoas abscess. The abscess formed an opening in the thigh, and after discharging for many months, closed. The child was apparently sound. She grew up a vigorous and active woman, and ultimately married. Three months after the birth of her first child, and when she was twenty-five years of age, the psoas abscess appeared again in the same place, opened and discharged, and led to the patient’s death. The history of tuberculous disease is associated with frequent relapses and with many disappointments. From a well-localised tuberculous focus the whole body may become infected, the tuberculous virus may be carried to almost every part of the organism, and the condition of acute general tuber- culosis then results. The dissemination of the trouble is exactly comparable with the diffusion of septic matter in pyemia, and the outbreaks of tubercle in distant parts are precisely to be compared with the secondary or metastatic abscesses in pytemia.