FRACTURES OF THE RONES OF THE FOOT. 871 Fractures of the bones of the foot—Fractures of bones of the foot constitute 2-66 per cent, of all fractures. Almost all ai-i.se from direct violence (run over, falling objects, caught between spokes), or great indirect violence (falls and jumps from a height); rarely one of these bones is broken by force which appears quite inadequate. By crushing force any or all the bones may be pulverised ; but the os calcis and the astragalus suffer much more frequently than the other tarsal bones, and often alone; of the metatarsal bone the fifth and first seem to be broken more frequently than the central three; commonly two or more are broken. Os calcis.—This bone is more often broken than any other tarsal bone, usually by falls and jumps on the heels (Fig. 209). Fracture from this cause occurs not uncommonly on both sides, and more or less comminution often res-alts, especially of the inner side upon which the astragalus chiefly rests. Some- tunes the result of the accident is a transverse verti- cal fracture between the tuberosity and the posterior astragaloid surface. In this case the fragment is more or less dra^vn up by the calf muscles, and if the fragment is a long one the arch of the foot falls. In the first case—of extensive comminution— flattening of the antero-posterior arch and more or less eversion of the foot are common; the malleoli are nearer to the ground, and the os calcis feels widened; the heel may appear lengthened or shortened, if a piece is displaced upwards. Swelling soon comes on, more or less limited to the region of the os calcis. Crepitus is sometimes very obscure. ■n *1 1 • • • 1 1 forcible inversion occasionally causes the tense tren’s Splint, middle band of the external lateral ligament of the ankle to tear off a scale of bone which can be felt at the tender, painful, and swollen spot. Very rarely the same movement forces off the sustentaculum tali, and then, the middle band of the in- ternal lateral ligament being detached, the os calcis rotates out and the foot becomes everted. A good many cases are on record of avulsion of the tuberosity (ossifying in the tenth, and joining in the sixteenth year) before or after union, chiefly after; dis- placement may be slight or great, 4^ in. in one case, in which it persisted, yet the patient is said to have recovered with perfect use of the limb. Treatment.—If there be no displacement, elevation and ice and then a plaster shoe. If there be displacement, flex the knee fully, place the foot carefully at 90° to the leg, with the sole so that it will touch the ground all along its outer border; endeavour to restore a flattened arch. Plaster over wool, if there be much swell- ing, makes the best splint. Avulsion of the tuberosity necessitates flexion of the knee and extension of the ankle, a position which can be maintained by putting a slipper on the foot and attaching the lieel by a cord to a broad band round the lowei’ end of the thigh j