188 TETANUS. It has not been shown that females enjoy any especial immunity, nor is the mortality of the disease less high in that sex. Constitutional condition.—This has little to do with the liability to tetanus, except that those who are young and debilitated are more easily affected by a given dose of the poison than those who are mature and strong. But not only the quantity of the dose, but also its quality, and the manner of its introduction, have to be taken into consideration. Injury.—When accompanying a wound, tetanus is called “ trau- matic.” In the absence of any obvious wound or puncture, it is called “ idiopathic,” but since the infective nature of the disease has been better known, and the point of inoculation has been more dili- gently sought for, idiopathic tetanus has become a rapidly-decreasing disease. It may follow the most trivial injuries. Tlie prick of a thorn or of a hypodermic needle, the bite of an insect, the impaction of a fish-bone in the fauces, a slight graze upon the pinna, the piercing the ears for ear-rings, circumcision, and a slight wound of the tongue, have all sufficed to inoculate the disease. Anomalous cases have been described by competent observers. In these tetanus has fol- lowed subcutaneous injuries, such as a contusion of the back (Mor- gagni), a dislocation of the finger (Bichelot), the effort to prevent a fall (Verneuil), or the blow of a whip-lash upon the face, the skin being unbroken (W^atson). The minute wound by which the inocu- lation may have occurred is often healed long before the symptoms of tetanus commence, and thus may easily have been overlooked. The records of cases prior to our knowledge of the infective nature of tetanus are not very trustworthy. As a rule, the word “idiopathic” merely means that a lesion has not been looked for or has not been found. In traumatic tetanus the starting-point is most often a wound ot one of the extremities. This is merely because wounds of the extremities are by far the most frequent. Tetanus may follow any kind of wound, but is commonest after those which are punctured, lacerated, or septic. As actual examples may be mentioned three consecutive cases that were caused respectively by a stick driven into the face, a splinter ot wood driven into the finger, and a rusty nail driven into the foot. In each instance the implement had been in the earth. Wounds and compound fractures caused by the wheels of vehicles are also apt to be followed by tetanus; also gunshot wounds, especially tliose which occur in war, and w'hich do not have immediate and proper attention. Tetanus has occurred after wounds inflicted by the surgeon, and has been met with after all kinds of amputations, excisions, herniotomies, ligature of arteries, and even after trivial operations—such as tenotomy, ligature of hiemorrhoids, hpture ot varicocele, or evulsion of toe-nails. All these accidents betoken want of care in antiseptic precautions. One surgeon is said to have lost ten major operations from tetanus before he discovered that his