185 PROGNOSIS. bacteria do not escape until the kidneys have been injured by their presence; or, in otlier words, that normal kidneys do not excrete Lcteria. I have always found acute disseminated nephritis and often abscesses when the pyrnmic urine has contained cocci. During pytemia various skin eruptions occur. These in the order of their frequency are erythema migrans, purpura, papules, pustules, vesico-pustules, urti- caria, milium, and sudamina. The ery- thema may resemble erythema nodosum or be like German measles. Recently I have seen a case in which it was mis- taken for scarlatina. Makins and Abbott mention a case of the same nature. The rashes of pysemia are similar to those of septicaemia, of which Aulas mentions the following varieties: zona purpura, simple erythema, Fie. 31.—streptococci in vesico-pus- ^ ^photogi-ai tular, and miliary eruptions. Some of these are very rare, but in neither pysemia nor in septicsemia are mistakes likely to occur if a thorough examina- tion of the local and general symptoms be made. Prognosis.—Death from pysemia is seldom delayed beyond the fortnight. The average duration of forty-one cases complicating acute infective osteomyelitis was twelve days. In a hundred and thirty-three cases of ordinary pysemia it was 10T5 days (Makins and Abbott). Recovery from pysemia is a slow and anxious process, liable at any time to be complicated with rigors, which portend recrudescence of the disease. Recovery only ensues when the pysemia, which has had an acute beginning, has been chronic for a long period. The prognosis, therefore, is more favourable as time elapses. The average duration of four cases which recovered was one hundred and thirteen days, and in four others the duration was thirty-one days, one hundred and forty-three days, one hundred and ninety-three days, and eighty-six days respectively (Makins and Abbott). The pro- gnosis is more favourable when the pysemic abscesses attack the limbs, or are confined to the areolar planes. The prognosis is most unfavour- able when the abdominal and thoi’acic viscera are affected. The only difference betwixt acute and chronic pysemia consists in their duration and in the severity of the symptoms. or papular urticaria.