905 AGllOMEGALY. fore-arms before the arms, and the legs before the thighs, but this change is unaccompanied b}' any curvature of the long bones.* The patient gradually becomes exhausted from general debility, or dies from some intercurrent disease. Pathology.—As regards the pathology of acromegaly, it must still remain in obscurity. Enlargement of the pituitary body, which has been frequently observed, may be a symptom rather than the cause of acromegaly, inasmuch as it is not always enlai’ged. Atrophy of the optic discs, which is pi’esent in so many of these cases, is undoubtedly caused by the pressure of this body. The thyroid gland has also been found altered, some- times enlarged, sometimes atrophied, and in others normal. Per- sistence of the thymus has also been held responsible for this disease; but no one of these three organs can be said to be the cause, for in some instances none of them were affected. Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis has to be made from myxcedema, osteitis deformans, leontiasis ossea, and arthritis defor- mans. From myxcedema the enlargement of bone, if it can be detected in the early stage of acromegaly, would be sufficiently distinctive. The skin in acromegaly shows no alteration, and the h)»pertrophy of the soft parts is confined to the hands, feet, and face. The hair also is unaffected. In osteitis deformans the long bones invariably become curved, there is no special tendency to enlargement of the distal ends of the extremities, and the face is small, whilst the skull is enlarged. Leontiasis ossea is an affection only of the facial bones and skull, which may become excessively and irregularly enlarged, much more so than in any case of acromegaly, but the soft parts are normal, and the distal extremities are unaffected. Virchow has pointed out that in acromegaly, as in arthritis deformans (or osteo-arthritis), there are osteophytic outgrowths at the articular ends of the long and short bones, and also along the margms of the vertebrae and the large flat bones, such as the ilium. “ But there is here also a striking difference, for in acromegaly the joint as such is not affected.” “ The changes are extra-articulai*, and have their seat outside the ligamentous and capsular constituents of the joint.” LEONTIASIS OSSEA. Virchow, in his work on Tumours, applied this term to a rare group of cases which vaiy much in their extent, but are similar in their pathological anatomy. Hyperostosis of the facial and cranial bones is the distinguishing feature of this disease. Large bosses of bone, often symmetrical, are developed from the bones of the face * Tor description of skeleton, see Broca : Archives Generates de Med.. Dec. 1888 • \iv(Axo\v: BeHiner klinisehe Wochensehrift, Feb., 1889: Henry Alexis Thomson- Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxiv., 1890. For numerous cases, se^ vol *cxxx^? Acromegaly and Bibliography,” with cases. Now Sydenham Society, D D *