INJVliJEti OF BLOOD-[VESSELS. 5I5G The utmost caro must be taken to jirevent gangrene by carrying out the treatment already specified for ansemic parts. {See page 534.) Treatment.—In the case of dry gangrene involving only a limited area of the anaemic part, the surgeon should do his utmost to “ nurse up ” the neighbouring parts by local warmth and by judicious feeding of the patient, and, if necessary, the exhibition of appro- priate cardiac tonics and stimulants, or narcotics and anodynes. It must be remembered that the parts adjacent to the gangrenous tissues are in a condition of “suspended animation;” their life is hanging in the balance, and no operation should be performed upon them. Gradually, if all goes well, the circulation becomes more vigorous, and the increased vitality of these parts is shown by the separation of the sphacelated portion When this evidence of the activity and vigour of the living parts exists, the surgeon should, with the least disturbance and injury, divide the bones and tendons—the most resistant structures—and so hasten what would otherwise be a tedious process ; a little “trimming” of a stump may also be required. This waiting for the “line of demarcation” is unattended with danger, as absorption of poisonous material does not take place from the dry gangrenous parts. Where the entire member up to the level of the arterial ob- struction is in a condition of dry gangrene, amputation should be performed as soon as the patient’s general condition renders it wise. Delay is not dangerous, as we have seen, but there is no local reason for delay, as the parts above the gangrene are not affected and “ half killed ” by the same injurious influence that has produced the gangrene. But if the patient is suffering from a severe loss of blood or any grave general disturbance, delay in operating is, of course, wise. In moist gangrene the conditions are entirely different; the dead tissues are a source of continuous toxic infection of the patient, and there may be also a progressive local infection and spread of the gan- grene. The extent of the gangrene, also, is known—up to the ligature. For these reasons, as soon as its existence is certain, the surgeon should amputate at the level of the obstruction; that will usually necessitate the division of the bone at a higher level, as the flaps must be fashioned from unquestionably healthy tissue. V. SUKGICAL HEMORRHAGE ; ITS VARIETIES AND PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT. The varieties of hmmorrhage, or bleeding, are classified, ac- cording to their cause, into pathological and traumatic ; according to their seat, into cerebral, pulmonary, uterine, cutaneous, etc.; and these are grouped into external and internal, according as the blood flows from the surface or collects in some cavity or tissue of the body. External haemorrhage is of chief interest to the surgeon; it is spoken of as arterial, venous, or capillary, according