239 SYMPTOMS OF BULLET WOUNDS. Condition of tlie tissues.—With regard to tlie soft parts, the skin may be (1) contused. It is livid, relaxed, and often colder than the surrounding parts. The surgeon should in these cases ahvavs be on the look-out for extensive damage in the deeper paits. After the preliminary stage of pallor and coldness, redness, heat, and swelling supervene. The pain increases, and there is much sub- cutaneous effusion. Eventually the skin may slough. _ The wound may be (2) of a lacerated character, superficial or deep The sides md bottom of the wound are formed of the debris of the contused tissues. The pain is often severe and paroxysmal. (3) Canal-shaped wounds.—Wit\i spent balls there may be only an aperture of entrance. Portions of the dress may be earried into the wound, or the wound may be of the “ seton ” character. ^ With the old round bullet -the aperture of exit was sharply distinguishable from that of entrance, but with the conoidal the differences have in a threat measure disappeared, and with the magazine bullet are practically non-existent. With the round bullet in its entirety, striking the body at right angles, the aperture^ of entrance was rounded, inverted, ecchymosed, and of smaller diameter than that of the missile. Generally, also, there was a slight loss of substance in the integument. The aperture of exit ’*as larger, more irre- f^ular, everted, and with greater loss of substance. The wound of exit,’as a rule, heals first. With the magazine bullet both the apertures are much more cleanly cut. As regards the track of the bullets, the conoidal causes one with more eleanly-cut walls than th® round, and is often so small as to be closed by the coming together of its sides, whilst that of the round bullet remains patent. The wound in tix&fascice may be either a mere slit, or there may be loss of substance. Fasciae resist the onward passage of the bullet; and where its velocity is not great, can turn it aside, or even arrest it. The sides of the wound may so completely fall together that its channel cannot be made out. The great importance of wounds of the fasciae lies in the influence exerted by them in cases where infective inflammation has supervened. Conoidal bullets separate merely the crossing fibres of the strong fasciae, so that the fascial openings have a smaller diameter than the general track, and thus any discharge of pus, should it form, will be interfered with. Tendons are most frequently pushed aside during the passage oi the ball, returning to their normal place afterwards, or they may be tom from their insertion. Large tendons, such as the tendo Achillis, have been perforated, or their edges may be notched. Dr. Chenu, in the war of 1870, described cases of arrest, and even of splitting of small bullets by tendons. The muscles may be lacerated and contused, and the seat of much extvavasated blood. The destruction caused by the missile is ordinarily limited to the neighbourhood of impact. AVhere a ball has channelled through several muscles, the track will often not be continuous. It is larger in . diameter than the ball, irregular in outline, and contains a sanguineous lacerated pulp ] or the canal