832 INJURIES OF BONES. the arm (Fig. 271). As soon as spasm has subsided the fingers and thumb are left free and movements of extension, abduction and adduction and of flexion (grasping the bar) should be fre- quently practised. If Carr’s splint be not at hand, anterior and posterior splints (Fig. 262) may be used. The hand is left hanging to the ulnar side, lightly restrained by a bandage across the palm, or, if there be much spasm, a strip of strapping may be used to adduct it and fix it firmly against the splint. The posterior splint is thickly padded up to the level of the wrist, the anterior down to the level of the fracture ; the splints are buckled firmly together. Again, freedom to the hand and fingers should be allowed as soon as possible. Massage should be practised before putting the fracture up, and should be repeated as soon as spasm has subsided. With less tendency to deformity, cases may be treated with a sling, over the edge of which the hand hangs adducted by its weight, or, to prevent accidents, a light wooden back-splint may be worn. Massage is practised daily and all movements, voluntary and passive, are begun as early as possible, the surgeon giving proper support. By this treatment the long-lasting stiflhess and painfulness of fingers and wrist, which used to form the chief seriousness of this accident, may generally be avoided. In separation of the epiphysis extrava- sation may be very great; splints must not be too tightly applied at first, circular compression must not be practised, aud the fingers should be carefully watched. The carpal bones.—These are generally fractured by severe crushes, often doing much damage to soft parts, which constitutes the most serious part of the injury. There is little or no displace- ment, as a rule, but a fragment may be forced quite out of position. So far as the fracture is concerned, short immobilisation and elastic QQ^pi'gsgion to limit extravasation are necessary at first. The metacarpal bones and phalanges.—These bones are generally broken by direct violence ; the phalanges are liable to have pieces torn off their bases by twists to the side, and they then, when not supported, drop over from the injured side. The flexor muscles often cause projection backwards of the metacarpal and larger phalanges when broken near the centre. The usual signs of fracture are easily obtained. The treatment of simple cases is best carried out by a gauntlet moulded in the case of a metacarpal, and by a palmar trough of guttapercha, carried into the palm, if neces- sary for the phalanges. In compound injuries and crushes, treat- ment should be most conservative: nothing should be amputated because we think it will not live-render the parts aseptic and wait Crushes of the last phalanx rarely require amputation at the last joint; if a flap can be obtained for this, the part can probably be saved. The dressing is usually a splint also. Fractures of the pelvis.—These fractures constitute onlj 0-3 per cent, of the whole list of fractures. They are best classed according as they do or do not break the pelvic ring. The former