INJU1UE8 OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 500 case the clots may lead to gangrene, and it is to prevent this tliat they should be removed at once. When gangrene has occurred, A amputation is the only course open. (For the treatment of traumatic aneurysm see page 632.) 2. Laceration of arteries.—It is well known that lacerated wounds are attended with very little, if any, hfemorrhage, and for this reason an ccraseur is used in certain operations upon vascular tissues. When an artery is torn across, the brittle inner and middle coats quickly snap and curl up within the artery, and on them a clot forms. The outer coat is drawn out and stretched beyond tire degi-ee of its elasticity, and then breaks, leaving a frayed end to fall over the end of the artery (Fig. 135). Such vessels often Fig. 135.—An Artery severed by Tearing, A, The unopened vessel, showing pi’otrude bevoud the general the frayed-out ;outer coat over r j o the end of the divided inner wound, and then they Can 06 surface of the seen pulsating coats; B, the artery laid open, . , ■, showing tlie clean-cut inner almOSt tO their extremity. Avulsion of the entire upper limb Avith the scapula has occurred more than once from the hand getting caught in revolv- ing machinery; even in such an extensive wound as this there may be no bleeding. The only direct treatment for a lacerated artery which has ceased to bleed is to keep the part at rest and secure aseptic repair. If the artery is bleeding, it must be tied. Watch must be kept upon the patient that, if secondary haemorrhage occur, it may be arrested and treated at once. 3. Punctured wounds of arteries.—Punc- tiu’ed wounds of arteries form an extremely im- portant class of injuries, for while of apparently trivial nature, their consequences are often very grave. They are generally produced by stabs and punctured wounds of various kinds, occasionally by the surgeon in operating. Pins and fish-bones have been known to transfix the oesophagus and pierce the thoracic aorta, and cause fatal hsemorr- hage. In fractures, sharp fragments of bone may pierce a neighbouring artery, and in removing a sequestrum from the femur its sharp point has been known to puncture the popliteal artery. A fine clean needle may be passed through an artery without any ill-eflect. Effects.—The disastrous consequences of a ' , f punctured wound of an arteiy are due in tlie first place to the fact that the clot in the puncture does not project into the artery and Fij 136. — Diagram of a Punctured Wound of an Artery, showing the hloo6-olot (a) occupying the puncture, overlap- ping it in the sheath of the artery and pro.iect- into hutjiot obliter- ating the lumen of the artery.