634 ANEURYSM. are adherent together, and the blood passes directly from tlie artery into the vein, the forcible impact of the blood distends the vein, and the pulsation in this varix makes it resemble an aneurysm, and so it is called an aneurysmal varix. But if an aneurysmal sac is developed between the two vessels, opening on the one side into the artery, and on the other into the vein, the condition is known as a varicose This difference is a very important one, and is well expressed by these aneurysm. Fig. 1S2.—Mr. Pemberton’e case of Aneurysmal Varix ol the Common Femoral Vein. (From Med. Clin. Soc. Trans.) I. The Varix seen from the outside. IX The V.arix laid open, showing the rounded opening into the artery. A. Common fonioral artery; n. common femoral vein; c, the varix laid open; n, the commuDic.ition between artery and vein. names, the one condition Vieing in essence a varix with only a re- semblance to an aneurysm, while the other is, in all important particu- lars, a sacculated aneurysm with all the damjers and therapeutic indi- cations of aneu- rysm, to which a peculiar kind and degree of varix is superadded. While most often traumatic in origin, arterio- venous aneurysm is sometimes idio- pathic, and there- fore it is dealt with in a separate section of this article. Aneurysmal varix. Causes.—A direct communication be- tween an artery and a vein is nearly always traumatic in origin; very occasionally it is idiopathic or congenital. The common cause is a simultaneous punctured wound of an artery and vein, as in careless phlebotomy, stabs, or gunshot wounds. The edges of the ad- jacent wounds in the vessels adhere, and then when the pressure with which these injuries are treated is removed, the blood passes freely from the artery into the vein. In a stab it may happen that there is a single wound in each vessel from the knife passing, as it were, between them; more commonly, however, it is a lancet which transfixes the vein and punctures the artery beneath it, the super- ficial vein-wound heals, and the deep one adheres to that in the artery. A remarkable case is on record in which the median-basilic vein one of the humeral veins, and the brachial artery were