103 FISTULA. communicates between the intestinal canal and the surface of the skin, this resulting most usually as the consequence of disease or mjurj, such as after strangulated hernia with gangrene of the bowel, after operations in the abdomen where the bowel has been opened, alter the operation of colotomy, etc. ; or it may brf congenital whep the intestine communicates with the surface, this being generally situated at the umbilicus. {See Art. XLVII., on Injuries and Diseases of THE Abdomen, Vol. II.) The most common fistulse are the anal listulie, following abscess under the mucous membrane of the bowel, the pus afterwards making its way into the ischio-rectal fossa, and opening both internally into the rectum and externally through the skin. (See Art. XLIX., on Diseases of the Rectum, Vol. II.) The chief reason why these fistulse do not heal is the constant passage through them of substances from the mucous canal. For example, in the case of salivary fistula there is constant discharge of saliva, which prevents the healing of the wound; in the case of intestinal fistula there is constant passage of the bowel contents, and similarly in the case of the anal fistulse. In the case of the con- genital fistulse, especially in the neck, the cause of the non-closuie^ is due to the fact that the whole track of the canal is lined with epithelium, and consequently no healing is possible. TrScbtniGllt of fistulSi.—The treatment of the various fistulse is considered in the accounts of the surgery of the various regions, and I need not therefore go into it in detail. It essentially consists either in laying the canal between the skin and the mucous membrane completely open, and causing healing to occur from the bottom, or in diverting the fluid which is passing over the canal and preventing the healing of the fistula, or in remov- ing the epithelial lining of the canal. Thus, in the case of the salivary fistula, operations are carried out by which the saliva shall find a direct opening into the mouth j and when that is done, the opening in the skin may be refreshed and stitched up. Similarly, in the case of intestinal fistulse, means are taken to make it more easy for the fsecal matter to pass along the intestinal ti’act, than to make its way out through the fistulous opening. Thus, where the fsecal fistula has resulted from gangi-ene after strangulated hernia, the contents of the bowel cannot find their way into the lower part of the bowel, on account of a spur of mucous membrane which acts as a valve over the orifice and the lower part of the canal; and steps must be taken to remove this spur of mucous membrane, either as was formerly done by the use of Dupuytren’s enterotome or, if necessary, by freeing the two ends of the bowel and subsequently uniting them. In the case of anal fistula the only satisfactory treatment is to lay it freel}’’ open, scrape away, or even cut away the wall of the fistula, especially if it be in a tuberculous condition; and then stuff the wound for some days, and make it heal from the bottom. In the case of perineal fistuke, which are almost always due to the presence of stricture, the first act in the treatment must consist in the removal of that stricture, either