FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 847 This would very probably bo missed until the blood was absorbed from the joint and use of it had begun. Ti’Oi&tmciit of fracliiB'es of llte feiiiiii-.—In feeble old people the effects of an accident to the lower limb, espe- cially about the hip, and the consequent confinement to bed, must always be borne in mind. In a fractui-e of the narrow part of the oieclc. in which bony union cannot be looked for, there will not be much hesita- tion, except on the score of pain, in get- ting the patient up early should this seem desirable; but it may be necessary to do so in other cases—to sacrifice the ideal treat- ment of the fracture to saving the life of the patient. Whilst in bed a good diet should be allowed, and frequent small doses of some stimulant are probably useful. Any change of position that can be permitted should be arranged for. The greatest care must be taken in these cases to avoid moistui’e, and either mechanical or chemical irritation of the back. Although a rubber layer beneath the drawsheet is undesirable, in many cases. Fig. 291.—A mixed Sejiaration and Fracture of the lower Epiphysis of the Femur starting within. The fissure runs more than half-way across the hone in the jilane of the epiphysial disc, then mounts rapidly and ob- liquely to the outer surface. Acute suppuration resulted, and the parts shoivn were excised. (Charing Cross Mu- seum, No. 391.) Pig. 292.—A right Femur, of which rather more tlian the whole tibial Surface of the external Condyle has been separated by fracture. (Univei-- sity College Museum, No. 2S3a.) it cannot be avoided if an air or water pillow be used, and one is often desirable in these cases; then a sufficient layer of porous ma- terial—e.g. tow—should cover it to absorb all moisture, and allow of some ventilation and evaporation. A slipper bed-pan should be used. Washing and rubbing of the back must be regularly performed, the patient being raised by a sufficient number of assistants to do it easily, or being rolled on to the .sound side by one nurse taking the pelvis and shoulder whilst another sees that the limb turns comfortably in a circle, having the opposite trochanter as centre. A dusting powder containing boric acid ^ij to 33 is helpful. Frac- ture boards should always be laid across the bed-frame beneath a thin mattress, to reduce to a minimum the sinking of the heavy pelvis carry- ing the upper fragment with it. All