1022 J1ISLOOATION8. flannel or domette bandage is carried from the toes to the centre of the leg, and over this the ordinary plaster dressing is firmly, not tiglitly, applied with narrow muslin bandages. In ten minutes the bandage will be “ set,” and if the assistant has main- tained the foot in proper position, it will there remain, and healing will take place of the broken malleoli and ruptured ligaments, under the most favourable conditions. There is no objection to the appli- cation of plaster-of-Paris immediately on reduction, if the surgeon be careful to divide it anteriorly, to allow of swelling. Great care and caution must be exercised, however, as the swelling is very con- siderable, and gangrene may readily ensue from undue external pressure. In six weeks cautious passive motion and massage may be carried out. In elderly and heavy people, of the gouty or rheumatic taint, a dislocation at the ankle, combined with fracture, will leave a joint that for many months will be (Edematous and insecure, entail- ing long, and perhaps permanent, lameness, and the prognosis of such injuries should always be very guarded. Compouml dislocations of tiic aiiUIc-joint. — These very serious injuries are comparatively common, especially in the lateral dislocation outwards, where the sharp edge of the broken inner malleolus tears through the skin, and projects several inches, tightly girt by the blackened integument. If the soft parts are much crushed, and especially if the patient be aged, bloated, or intemperate, and the wounds full of dirt and grit, or such substances as ma- chinery oil, I would strongly advise primary amputation of tlie leg In some favourable circumstances, especially in the young, and in healthy country persons, an attempt may be made to save the foot. Prom a careful perusal of the recorded cases of this accident, and from personal notes of five instances of it, I think that it is always better to remove obliquely the projecting inner fragmen with a fine saw, preserving the periosteum as much as possible. is aff’ords free drainage, and a counter-opening maybe made poster loily if needful In compound dislocations of the ankle, continuous irrigation with warm water is of striking utility. Great practical dififculty will be encountered in the proper disinfection of these compliited wouncts, and the surgeon will ’'O such septic disorders as spreading gangrene, abscess, celluWis, ai d SnS As soon as practicable, the plaster-of-Pans dressing, with “ openiiigi cut at the site of injury, is an advantageous application. Fie 424 —Partial Dislocation of the Astra- galus forwards. (After Pick.)