4-18 TUM0UB8. common, perfectly iirnocent, and in nearly all cases encapsuled; there is, however, one species of lipoma (fatty tumour) which has no capsule, and is called in consequence “diffuse lipoma” (Fig. 98, page 450). Though this tumour is diffuse and, in the ‘ example selected, the fat extends without any defined limits beneath the skin of the neck and on each aspect of the platysma muscle, it does not burrow beneath the deep cervical fascia and implicate the muscles and vessels of the neck like a cancer, epithelioma, or sarcoma. Other examples of diffuse but non-infiltrating tumours will be mentioned in the genera fibromata, gliomata, and neuromata. The infiltrating propensities of malignant tumours explain, in part, the phenomenon of recurrence, for in the process of removal the surgeon, unable to define its limits, leaves portions of the tumour undestroyed, and as the life of these fragments is in no way influenced by the removal of the main mass, they continue to grow and e\"en attain greater proportions than the original tumour. A very common feature among malignant tumours is lymph gland infection. This is most marked among epitheliomata and carcinomata (cancers). It is fairly constant in the melano-sarcomata, which arise in the skin. When simple tumours involve the skin and ulcerate, the adjacent lymph glands may enlarge; this is apt to complicate the diagnosis. There is, however, this great differ- ence : after the removal of a malignant tumour, the infected glands continue to grow ; whereas, after the removal of a simple tumour, any enlarged glands associated with it quickly resume their natural size. The most remarkable feature of malignant tumours is their tendency to reproduce themselves in distant organs—a phenomenon known as dissemination. The products of this process, termed “ secondary deposits,” are histologically reproductions of the pi-imary tumour. Dissemination occurs widely in carcinomata. It is very frequent in sarcomata, but is unusual in epitheliomata. Peculiarities in the distribution of secondary nodules wiU be discussed in connec- tion with the sarcomata and carcinomata. Tumours of all kinds are prone to degenerate. Many ai-e liable to fatty, mucoid and hyaline changes; others become infiltrated with calcareous material. These are often referred to as secondary changes. Tumours which grow rapidly are liable to ulcerate, bleed, and necrose. Pseiido-maligiiancy.—When carcinoma arises in the mucous membrane of the gall bladder, intestine, or body of the uterus, small bud-like processes of the tumour are liable to make their way through the walls of the affected viscera, and project into the peritoneal cavity. Under such conditions the growing cells are apt to be de- tached and scattered overtire belly. Many of these cells become engrafted upon the serous membrane and grow, forming secondary knots. In some cases, especially with gall-bladder tumours, these little nodules are present in great numbers. A similar condition is occasionally met with when papillo-