DISEASES OF BONES. 878 malaise, headache, loss of appetite, and even vomiting and diarrhoea, may also be pi’esent. For a time the patient often makes no complaint of any local trouble, and is thought to be sickening for some acute specific fever. In a day or two, however, the doctor’s attention is drawn to an acutely tender and swollen part. A difficulty now arises as to Avhether this is due to acute rheumatism, cellulitis, or acute diffuse periostitis. Cellulitis may, as a rule, be excluded if there be no wound of the surface for the entrance of infective organisms ; and if there be such a wound, the inflammation rapidly spreads in all directions, beyond the next joint and over the adjoin- ing bone. The tender swelling in the disease now under considera- tion is likely to be situated over the end of one of the long bones, such as the tibia, and therefore near a joint. In acute rheumatism the joint will probably be in the centre of the swelling, and more than one joint is likely to be involved. In acute diffuse periostitis the centre of the swelling—in the early stage, at any rate—will be either above or below the joint. More than one bone is also rarely attacked at the same time. If there be any doubt, an anaesthetic should be given, and deep fluctuation sought for iir the usual manner. An exploratory incision may also be made if proper antiseptic precautions be taken, and is far safer treatment than leaving the case in doubt, and possibly finding at the next visit that the swelling has extended some distance up the shaft. Occa- sionally, too, under the ansesthetic, it 'jvill be found on handling the limb that separation has taken place between the epiphysis and the shaft. Treatment.—As already suggested, early and free incisions are here imperatively needed to save the patient from necrosis of the whole shaft. It is far better to have made an unnecessary explora- tory incision than to be a day too late in giving relief to pus pent up beneath the periosteum. From the severity of the constitutional symptoms and the presence of a local swelling, coupled with the absence of any other explanation to ‘account for the patient’s con- dition, it would be criminal not to give him the chance even in a doubtful case of arresting the progress of this acute infective disease. An incision having been made and pus found, the opening should be enlarged so as to permit a complete and thorough examination with the operator’s Anger. The extent to which the bone is already denuded of its periosteum can thus be accurately estimated, and the opportunity taken of makino- openings in the best possible position. The incisions should be lon° and in the axis of the limb. Wide gaping of the wound takes j^ace, which makes the introduction of a drainage-tube unneces- sary, except where muscles have had to be divided, and tend to over- lap or fill up the deeper part of the wound. ^ After the cavity has been thoroughly washed out, a copious antiseptic dressing and a convenient splint are applied. The patient is at once relievedfrom pain, and the temperature falls. Frequent dressings and fresh incisions mav from time to time be necessary, according to the