324 8UBGI0AL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. reaches the portal circulation. Cysts may be single or multiple ; the latter condition is far less common, and is most often seen in the peri- toneal cavity. In cases of multiple hydatids the liver rarely escapes. Symptoms.—The symptoms of hydatid tumours depend entirely on the region or organ affected, the early ones being the result of pressui’e on the surroundings of the cyst, the later ones on the supervention of inflammation, or possibly on rupture of the cyst. Spontaneous cure of the hydatid, with consequent contraction of its bulk, may lead to the cessation of all symptoms, or this may occasionally result from rupture of the cyst, with discharge of its contents, either into a hollow viscus or externally. The signs of a hydatid cyst are those common to collections of fluid, the special characteristics being high tension and the occasional existence of a peculiar vibratory thrill, obtained by placing the fingers of the left hand on the tumour, and tapping the middle finger with one of the right hand. Eupture or puncture of a cyst Ls sometimes followed by the development of an urticaria-like or difluse erythematous rash, accompanied by much itching. It must be borne in mind that shrunken cysts often persist as firm solid tumours, occasionally pedunculated and very movable. Diai^nosis.—The diagnosis is usually made by exclusion ; in some cases it°is self-evident if daughter cysts be discharged. In cases of doubt, puncture may clear up all difficulty, but in cases of visceral hydatids this should never be undertaken wfllingly without consent having been obtained for the surgeon to proceed to a radical opera- tion, and in some cases is strictly contra-indicated as a dangerous ^' Prognosis —The disease may give rise to little trouble, and all symptoms may subside spontaneously; it is remarkable how often old hydatids are met with in the autopsies of persons dymg from other causes. Beyond this, the prognosis depends on the organ affected, and if this is one to be readily reached and operated on, the prognosis is decidedly a good one. Spontaneous^ ope^g ot the cyst may, either in the case of the lung or of the intestinal canal, be followed by recovery. , t • Treatni6Ilt. The surgical treatment of hydatid disease consists in either incision and drainage, or complete removal of the cyst at one In the subcutaneous tissue the cysts are readily extirpated entire. When within a serous cavity, the mode of procedure diflei-s as to whether inflammation has occurred or not. If occurred, a free incision may be carried into the sac, if adhesions have shut off the general serous cavity. The sac should then ^ irric^ated, and the membrane as freely evacuated as possible by gentle manipulation ; drainage will, in these cases, be necessary for ^ ^°w£^no ^inflammatory changes have occurred, Volkmann s operrtion in two stages is the safest. In the first stage, the cyst is laid bare by an incision, the wound is packed to ensuie gaping.