564 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. in a vein, or a thread transfixing it, the white corpuscles adhere together, and then break up and lose their outline, and form a greyish granular mass of fibrin, in which an occasional white corpuscle may be recognised; this is a white thrombus. As such a clot extends, some of the red corpuscles may be entangled in it, and impart to it a deeper colour, and thus all grades between the white and the red thrombus may be met with. Sometimes a white thrombus grows until it occludes a vein and causes stasis above and below it, and then a red thrombus is formed on each side of the original white thrombus; such a clot is called a mixed thrombus. The colour of a recent clot in a vein, therefore, enables us to judge how it has been formed. The term hyaline thrombus has been sug- gested for a white thrombus, in which the fibrin is in the form of structureless hyaline material. 'Jf'Ue gi’owth ©t a tlii'oiiibiis*—An uninfected traumatic thrombus is usually limited to the portion of the vessel that is injured, but it is liable to extend upwards and downwards as far as the next branch, where the rapid flow of blood appears to stop the coagulation. In cases of exhaustion a thrombus, once formed, often extends for a considerable distance along the vein. Where the thrombus is infected there is also a special tendency to its extension, until it is closed in by a layer of uninfected clot. The chaiig:es which occur in a thromhus vary in different cases, and upon them the importance of the condition (1) Organisation.—The process of organisation of a clot in a vein is similar to that already described in an artery. l^See page 512.) It may convert the vein into a fibrous cord, or the spaces which form in the contracting clot and open into the vein beyond may enlarge and coalesce, and eventually form a continuous channel and restore the patency of the vein. This channel may be placed centrally, the remains of the clot appearing as a circular thickening of the vein, or it may be excentric, the vein appearing greatly thickened on one side. (2) Calcification: the product being known as a phlebolith.— Phleboliths are usually small, and are formed most often in clots lying behind the valves of varicose veins, and in the branches of the pelvic plexuses of veins. They may lie free in the channel of a vein, being attached to its wall by a narrow pedicle, or they may mark the site of an occluded vessel. They are composed chiefly of phosphate of lime, with a small quantity of the sulphates of lime and potash, together with about 20 per cent, of proteid mattei*. (3) Red softening, disintegration, absorption.—A blood-clot may be changed into a greyish-red pulp, the softening commencing Fig. 162.—Thrombosis ot Vena Cava and Iliac Veias. very largely depends.