mi SEPTIC SYNOVITIS. Once introduced into the circulation, the capacity of these fungi to increase within the system is well known, until the whole organism may be overpowered by the poison generated by them. The first evidence of a dangerous general intoxication with the latter is usually a sudden rise of temperature, followed by a rigor, and then abrupt defervescence. It is after this that we usually meet with the septic joint affections in the form of simple synovial, serous, or purulent effusion into the cavity of the articulations. This synovitis is brought about by the irritating effect of the organisms or their products upon the capillaries of the membrane, in which colonies of staphylococci may be entangled. Hypermmia follows, and, as^ consequence of this, increased secretion takes place from the surface of the sac, and the joint is distended. In the milder cases the fluid poured out may be but slightly altered synovium, and may be soon absorbed again. This, however, is rare, the effusion in clearly septic cases being usually either turbid serum or actual pus. The reason for this is not far to seek. Simple hyper- secretion from a synovial membrane invaded by septic irritants would naturally carry a certain number of the organisms into the joint. As there is no means of escape from the latter for the fluid except by the absorbents (probably also damaged in their functions by the same inflammation, and, at all events, inadequate to the extra work thrown upon them), an accumulation of septic matter takes place in the joint, and this re-acting upon the surfaces around, intensifies the hypersemia, and soon leads to suppuration in most cases. It would seem, too, as if the organisms in the vitiated synovium in such cases had the power of directly attacking the tissues, and also of preventing any of that organisation of fibrin which is so frequently seen to be present in the neighbourhood of non-septic inflammations. This is indicated by the peculiar ap- pearance of the synovial membrane and the cartilages in such cases. These seem to the naked eye as though they had been subjected to some digesting process, which has liquefled them, and at the same time left them clean and smooth, and without a trace of lymph upon them. In many cases the injection of the synovial membrane appears after death to be but slight, and out of all proportion to the large amount of pus in the joint. A microscopical examination of the membrane, however, will show exudation of small round cells in its most superficial layers, which are thus softened and sodden on the surface, and perfectly destitute of any trace of plastic material. The cartilage, too, is seen under the microscope to be altered, in its superficial layers at all events. Here the tissue is softened and rapidly liquefying, as though under the action of a chemical solvent, but, as a rule, so evenly and uniformly, that only close scrutiny detects the thinning of any particular part. The capsules near the surface are packed with small round cells, but those in the deeper part of the cartilaginous crust are normal. Indeed, the whole appear- ance of the tissue gives the impression that so rapid and universal