507 lUEMUliliUAGJil. but often, if life is saved, it is only at the expense of great or even profound aiuemia, which may never be recovered from, and in certain cases the blood flowing from the wounded vessels becomes a source of new danger to the patient by collecting in the body, compressing and obstructing important parts, such as veins, arteries, brain, spinal cord, bronchi, and lungs. By surgical means we are able to arrest luemorrhage instantly and certainly where Nature ean do so tardily and doubtfully, if at all, and so to save life and health and preserve intact the other parts of the body. Indeed, there is no sino-le result of injury or disease for which treatment is so immedi- ately and widely beneficial as in the arrest of haemorrhage. But as the surgical means employed are all modelled on Nature’s pattern, it is extremely important to understand her ways thoroughly and to appreciate the manner in which her efibrts may be supplemented and aided. The cicatrisation of a wounded blood-vessel, however, Uke that of any other tissue, is effected by Nature alone) the surgeon cannot make a scar, nor can he do much to further the natural pro- cesses, although he may do much to hinder or impair them, and it becomes of the highest importance for him while aiding Nature to arrest haemorrhage to use only those means which do not impede the process of repair of the wounded vessel. It is for this reason that we speak of the treatment of haemorrhage rather than of the treatment of wounded vessels. We shall consider, in the first place (1) how unaided Nature arrests haemorrhage; this is sometimes spoken of as the temporary ari’est of haemorrhage. We shall then describe (2) the cicatrisation or true repair of wounded blood-vessels; this is sometimes called the permanent arrest of haemorrhage; and in the next section (3) deal with the surgical means of arresting haemorrhage. 1. The natural (or temporary) arrest of haemorrhage.— When an artery is cut across, its muscular coat contracts and narrows or even closes the orifice ; the instant closure of a cut artery is often seen when small arteries are divided in an operation. This contraction results from the direct stimulus to the muscular fibres of the injury, and is a vital effect; its influence is greatest in those arteries in which the muscular coat is best developed. At the same time, the elasticity of the artery causes it to retract within its sheath. This retraction is both longitudinal and circular. The circular retraction narrows the orifice of the cut artei'y and the lumen of the vessel for some distance above. The longitudinal retraction withdraws the artery from the surface of the wound within its cellular sheath. This is a physical phenomenon, and can be demonstrated on the dead body. These changes in the cut vessel—contraction and retraction —are immediate, and they are quickly followed by coagulation of the blood. As the blood flows through the narrowed mouth of the artery and over the inner surface of its cellular sheath, the blood platelets are entangled, disintegrate, set free their ferment, and fibrin is formed. The clot thus arising forms first