ANEURYSM. 610 effect of the diet is counteracted by the evil influence of fretfulness and worry. When the patient is pletlioric, and the arterial tension very high, repeated saline purges and venesection are useful. This treatment has sometimes been pushed to an extreme point, and the patient has been so reduced by purgings and repeated bleedings, that he fainted if raised in bed, and the tension of the circulation has been at the minimum consistent with life. Such a course would only be pursued in cases of internal aneurysm, in which no local measures could be adopted; and even in them physicians refuse nowadays to carry their treatment to the point sanctioned by Valsalva and others. But while this extreme measure is to be depre- cated, the wise employment of constitutional means to reduce arterial tension should never be omitted or neglected. To increase tlie plasticity of the blood has been the second aim of constitutional treatment. It has been thought that by a dry restricted diet, such as that just mentioned, or by a very richly nitrogenous diet, the proportion of fibrin in the blood can be increased, and the natural cure of an aneurysm thereby promoted. Apart from the consideration that so little is as yet definitely known of Inemopoiesis and the means of influencing it, that much uncertainty must be felt on the efficacy of treatment to attain this end,- it is important to bear in mind that cure of an aneurysm is never hindered by lack of fibrin in the blood, and that the essential condition for coagulation of the blood is a setting free of the fibrin-ferment from within the corpuscles in which it normally lies. Even supposing that by constitutional means we could cause a breaking-up of these “ferment corpuscles,” we should still do more harm than good unless we could ensure that it should only occur in the aneurysm and the artery adjacent—a condition impossible to secure by constitutional means alone. Iodide of ijotassium in full physiological doses (5ij diem) has been much vaunted, but there is great divei’gence of opinion as to its value. If syphilitic arteritis is the cause of the aneurysm, the iodide is said to exert a beneficial influence upon this disease, aiTesting its progress and even leading to absorption of some of the inflamma- tory deposit. But inasmuch as syphilitic arteritis is attended with great thickening of the intima, and only leads to aneurysm when absorption of this new tissue has weakened the artery, it is difficult to appreciate how iodide of potassium can do good by causing the absorption of the syphilitic products. Indeed, when an arteryhas been so softened that an aneurysm has developed, it is open to question whether any effective repair of the vessel wall can occur. The beneficial effects that have followed the use of iodides in full doses have been probably due to their depressing action on the heart and their power of reducing arterial tension rather than any more direct actioii upon the diseased vessel. Other drugs, especially acetate of lead, and perchloride of iron, have been employed in aneurysm ; but nothing definite is known of their value. In conclusion, then, we may sum up by saying that constitutional