942 DII^EASIHS OF THE JAWS. iudividual, but the mandible, chin, and associated structures are in degree of development similar to those of a child of six or seven years of ago. These characters lead to ready recognition of the condition (Fig. 371). Of the cause of this affection nothing is known. Treatment.—Spasmodic closure of the jaw due to trouble connected with the wisdom tooth usually responds to appropriate measures. In fact, many cases of trismus terminate with the eruption of the wisdom tooth. In some cases, when there is doubt as to the position of his tooth, the second molar has been ex- tracted ; this has afforded space, relieved the nerve from pres- sure, and the tooth has subse- qxiently erupted. At the time of extracting the second molar, a careful search should be made for the errant third molar. When the closure is due to anchylosis, whether it be fibrous or osseous, the best treatment is excision of the condyles; in the most successful cases it has been necessar}' to excise both. Some good re- sults have fol- lowed division of the neck of the condyle. When the closure results from the con- Fig. 371.—Closure of the Jaw due to defective Developmeut ol the traction of a Mandible. (Humphry.) orcvouxyir “ cicatrix, the surgeon has to face one of the most trying cases in surgery. Attempts are at first made by the use of lever gags and spring gags to limit the amount of contraction, usually with little avail. Then efforts are made to establish a false joint after the method introduced by Esmarch. This consists in removing a wedge-shaped piece from the mandible at a spot anterior to the cicatrix, the apex of the wedge being at the alveolar border. In less severe cases it may not be necessary to remove a wedge- shaped piece of bone; then Rizzoli’s operation may be practised. This consists in dividing the jaw from within the mouth by means of cutting forceps. Esmarch’s procedure, however, is the operation usually adopted, and it certainly gives the best results.