INGOMPLETE FUA0TUPES. 7Fo . there be uo displaceiueut. Before an epiphysis lias united, violence may detach it completely or incompletely, thus constituting the important group of traumatic separations of epiphyses. liicoiii|>l<itc fractiii’cs are much rarer tlian complete j the greenstick fi’acture is the most important va- riety. It is seen typi- cally in the shafts of long bones, as the result of bending. A partial transverse fracture starts on the convex side and traverses the compact layers, whilst the corresponding layers in the concavity are bent; longitudinal fis- sures often run up and down from the trans- verse fissures between the broken compact layers (Figs. 204, 20-5, and 237). Sometimes two oblique fissures start close together on the convexity, and diverge as they pass towai’ds the concavity (Fig. 203, a) ; rarely the fractures start in the concavity. The periosteum is generally intact. Infraction is probably most common in the clavicle, then in the fore-arm bones; it is rare in all others. The great majority of cases occur between 3 and 10 years, especially in the seventh and eighth years. Indirect violence is the usual cause, but direct vio- Pig. 204.—A Greenstick Pi aeture of the Radius of a Cliild. The fore- arm was bent towards the radial side; atriuis- verse fissure divides the inner half of the bone about its centre, wliilst the outer half is bent. The uijper fragment is split longi- tudiuaUy for nearly half its length, start- ing from tlie fracture. (King’s Coll. Museum.) lence sometimes results in infraction, formity is the chief point upon which diarjnosis of greenstick fracture rests; bone is seen and felt to be bent, and re.sults of the bending upon the evident. Movement is not free De- the the the Pig. 205.—A Greenstick Fracture of the lower Bud of tlie right Ulna of a Boy, aged 14 years, due to a machinery ac- cident. The shaft has beau bent inwards li in. above its lower end ; a transverse frac- ture extends through the outer three-fourths of the bone, whilst the inner fourth is bent. The mode of formation ofalongitudinal tissure is clear. The lower epiphysis was partly, and the lower epiphysis of the railius was completely, separated. (Charing Cross Mu- seum, No. 855.) shoulder or other part are in all dii’fictions, and may be