INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 550 counter-pressure. Bleeding from a punctured scalp artery may sometimes be arrested by completely severing the vessel; this method used to be employed after arteriotomy of the temporal artery. Wound of ineniMseal artei-y must be closed by a fine double ligature ; it is often impossible to seize the artery in forceps and tie it, and then the ligature must be carried round the artery by a needle passed under it. If wounded in a bony canal, it must be plugged by gauze or an ivory peg. Wounds of the subcJaviaai artery appear to be invariably fatal: wounds of the su'prascajjular or transverse cervical arteries must be treated by double ligature in the wound. Wounds of the vertebral artery present a .special difficulty both in diagnosis and treatment; for as compression of the common carotid artery against the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra may occlude the vertebral trunk also, it is easy to see that the arrest of the bleeding from this pressure may be wrongly taken to indicate that the wounded vessel is the carotid or one of its derivatives when it is really the vertebral trunk. The only way to make sure of the source of the bleeding is to enlarge the wound until the finger can be introduced and feel the bleeding point. If the wound involves the vessel below its enti'ance mto the cervical spine, the artery should be tied above and below the punctui’e ; but where it is punctured between two trans- verse processes, there is no room to place a double ligatui’e; the best plan in such a case appears to be to plug the wound very care- fully, taking great pains to have the deepest part of the plug accu- rately fitted iir between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. Ligature of the artery below the sixth vertebra and above the atlas has been suggested : the operation is attended with difficulty and some degree of danger. Small wounds of the internal jug'Mlar vein should be closed by a lateral ligature or-suture of the vein ; extensive wounds of the vein require a double ligature. Wounds of a cranial sinus must be dealt with by careful plugging with a strip of aseptic gauze. Htemorrhage from the socltet ot a tootli may be long con- tinued and serious in amount. It is to be arrested by removing all clots from the socket, and passing a narrow strip of lint firmly down to the very bottom of the socket from which the blood is coming, and then filling in the cavity lately occupied by the tooth with lint, until the little pad rises just above the level of the adjacent teeth. This pad is held in position by firmly clo.sing the patient’s mouth. Of the trunk.—Wounds of the internal niaiiiinary and intercostal arteries are best treated by double ligature in situ. This subject is more fully discussed in Article XLIV., on The Surgery of the Chest, Vol. IL Wounds of the epigastric and Imnbar arteries must be closed by double ligature, and it is often necessary to enlarge the wound considerably to expose the severed vessel ; the ends of the epigastric artery, in particular, may be found considerably retracted.