DISLOCATIONS. 964 , JZp-uvC of the bone, or restoration to its place, and fixing it there by a wire suture, can scarcely ever be justifiable. I have obtained favourable results also by moulding a large piece of guttapercha round the elbow, shoulder, and root of the neck, over a soft flannel bandage and flat sponge pad on the displaced articu- lation. When the guttapercha has become hard it is pierced by a bradawl, to allow of transudation of perspiration, and is supported externally by a sling and bandages. 2. Dislocations of the acromial end ol the clavicle from the scaimla.—It is right to state that many authors consider this dislocation as a displacement of the scapula from the clavicle, the former being the more movable bone. Causation and classification.—Dislocations of the outer end of the clavicle are stated to be more common than dislocations of the inner end. The main obstacles to displacement are the strong conoid and trapezoid ligaments. The shape of the articular surfaces would lcaa~oneTo'‘ej^^ dislocation upwards would be the more frequent; and this is the case. Dislocation downwards, the clavicle being driven below the acromion, is also met with, though it is exceedino-ly rare. The violence which produces this accident almost always ^ts upon the scapula, and usually from behind. Thus, a man may be pitched from a horse, and falling heavily on the back of his shoulder produces this dislocation. Sub-acromial dislocations can only be produced by very heavy blows on the shaft of the clavicle, driving the acromial end of the bone downwards, i have never seen an instance of this dislocation. Morbid anatomy.—The capsular ligament is ruptured, and the clavicle is displaced on the acromion for about half an inch. trapezius is very tense, and tends to reproduce the displaceme^y iti"constairTteaSim. The conoid and trapezoid ligaments remain intact in the incomplete displacements; but when the clavicle is thrown for an inch or more on the acromion, the trapezoid ligament, at all events, must be torn. In the displacement downwards the conoid and trapezoid Hgaments have been found torn, and the coraco- acromial ligament also (Hamilton). The head of the clavicle hes on the capsule of the shoulder. It has been stated that the acromial end of the cla\icle may even be thrown under the coracoid process ; bu the reputed cases of this strange accident are not universaUy accepted of dislocation of the acromial end of the cla,vicle up- wafl-The dm appears lengthened and hangs by the s.de, wh e the shoul^r is depressed and nearer the median line than on the opposite side. The prominence formed by the displaced outer end o Z Sroiial end the clavicle is apparent, and *e clav^u^ portion of the trapezius is exceedingly prominent. The patient unable to raise his arm over his head. Treatment of dislocation of the acromxal end of wards -This dislocation is readily reduced by cb^ig the outwards, and making digital pressure upon the^isplaced bone. I