TUBERCULOSIS. 351 hei* mastei’, wlio was dying of phthisis, and in whose sputum bacilli were found. An indurated ulcer formed on the finger, the tendon sheath became involved, and the axillary glands enlarged. The finger was amputated and the glands were excised. The morbid changes were found to be tuberculous and the bacillus was discovered in the parts removed. The girl made a sound recovery. The case is recorded by Tscherning. Leloir details a case of lupus of the nose in a young girl who lived with a sister, the subject of phthisis, and often used her handkerchief. A girl tatooed on the arm by her lover, who was dying of phthisis, developed lupus at the inoculated spot. Unna describes lupus of the lobule of the ear in a girl of thirteen, who wore the earrings of a friend who had died of phthisis. Several examples of the communication of tuberculosis by the Jewish operation of circumcision have been recorded. Jeanselme gives the case of a woman who developed tuberculous ulcers of her fingers after long attention upon her husband, who had a fistula (which she dressed), and who died of phthisis. (2) By respiration and (3) hy cohabitation.—A certain number of instances have been recorded in which it is more or less apparent that tuberculosis in the form of phthisis was communicated to a sound individual. These examples have been mainly noticed in the persons of husbands and wives, or intimate friends, or nurses and patients. The cases, however, are quite uncommon, consider- ing the wide prevalence of the disease. Jousset would place them as low as 2 per cent. This method of communicating tuberculosis is practically unknown in hospitals for consumption. It is obvious, however, that tuberculous diseases are more common in crowded communities; and one can imagine that a wife in poor circumstances, who is in constant attendance, in a close ill-ventilated room, upon a husband who is dying of phthisis, is in a most favourable posi- tion for acquiring the disease. A confined atmosphere, the lack of fresh air and of sunshine, are favouring elements in the spread of tubercle. (4) By feeding.—This method of communicating tubercle is in the human subject exceedingly rare, and is doubted by many. Jousset aflSirms (writing in 1893) that no case has been demon- strated. It would appear that the bacilli of tubercle cannot live in the healthy stomach, and cannot survive the heat involved in the cooking of meat. The communication of the disease to a child by means of milk from a tuberculous cow has not been estab- lished beyond doubt. Niepve gives the case of an infant born of healthy parents who was suckled by a tuberculous nurse who had bacilli in her milk; the child soon died of tuberculous meningitis. The tuberculous individual.—Two things are needed to set in action the tuberculous process. There must be the seed, and there must be a suitable soil. The seed is provided by the tubercle bacillus, and among the haunts of men this bacillus must be fairly