1074 DISEASES OF JOINTS. the functions of the articulation permanently. These are suloacute in- flammations of tlie synovial membrane and cartilage, leading to their degeneration. The synovial membrane, in other words, becomes thickened and roughened by exudation under the irritation of the clotted blood, part of which becomes apparently organised. ^ The cartilage, too, becomes fibrillated and roughened, and is thus thinned until, in some cases, the underlying bone is exposed. If, in these circumstances, the clot and exudation become organised, adhesions are formed which seriously interfere with the movements of the articulation. The symptoms of the condition are common to those of effusion into the joint of blood from any cause (see Hsemarthrus, page 1034), and the sequelae are the same. The treatment consists iii cold applications in the first place, and subseqiiently of strapping or elastic support of the whole joint with elastic bandages. Combined with this, massage may do much good in helping to remove the clot. On no account ought any operation— )iot even aspiration—be done for the removal of the latter. The prognosis in ordinary cases, as far as the joint is concerned, is good, but as to the general condition, we know of no treatment that cures it. NEURALGIA OF JOINTS. Like other highly-sensitive parts of the body, joints are occar sionally, though on the whole rarely, the seat of real pain that does not appear to be associated with any tangible structural lesion. The exact pathology of the phenomenon is still unknown. Whether it be due to some alteration in the peripheral portion of the nerves of the part themselves, or to morbid conditions in the central nervnus system, will probably for a long time be a moot point. But without attempting to settle this .question, we may now consider the clinical facts relating to these neuralgias, and contrast them mth those recognised as factors in true structural change. ^ Symptoms.—These pains are usually noticed in joints which at one time or another have received some injury, such as a strain or a blow but which have recovered aU their functions completely, ihey are mostly of a keen, sharp character, or are described as “burning. They are not associated with any throbbing or sense of heat actually in the part, nor is the local temperature found to be altered. Occasionally the pain is lancinating, being intermittent; sometimes it is continuous. It is generally met with in those who for one reason or another have run down and become anemic, and is most felt towards evening after, the work of the day has used up the patient’s surplus energy. Again, the pain durin'T bad weather, which depresses the vital eneigy. Patients aflfected by these pains are often hereditarily been lately through the same experiences which lead up to the ne vous mimicry of joint disease. (See page 381.) They differ, however.