353 transmission of tuberolf (3) Transmission by cohabitation.—This has been weU demon- strated in the case of rabbits and guineapip Animals affected with tuberculosis have been put to live with healthy animals and been surrounded by healthy conditions. In process of time, the sound rabbits and guineapigs have developed tuberculous disease uTTransmission by feeding.—Certain animals fed upon tuber- culous material have developed tubercle m the intestine and mesen- teric glands. In some of the instances, tuberculous matter, such as sputum or disintegrated tissue containing tubercle, has been mixed ^^ith the animal’s usual food. In other instances the food substance has been composed of the desh of tuberculous animals or the milk ot cows suffering from tuberculosis. . , • Speaking in general terms of these experiments on animals, ^ is to be noted that the susceptibility of different animals to the tuber- culous virus differs very considerably. Rabbits, gumeapigs, apes, and ruminants are peculiarly prone to tuberculosis, and readilj develop the manifestations of the disease after inoculation, ihe carnivora, on the other hand, may be said to exhibit but a compara- tively slight susceptibility to the disease. _ It is needless to say that the results of inoculation experiments are much influenced by the concentration of the virus, its amount, and the site and method of its introduction. _ _ (b) Clinical experience.—A study of the transmission oi tuberculosis in the human subject, as gained by clinical experience, soon makes it evident that data derived from laboratory researches and experiments upon animals must be accepted with considerable modification when it is sought to apply them to the disease in man. The animal man, viewed as a corpus vile, does not respond very readily to the tuberculous virus when it is introduced into the body by an unintended experiment. (1) Transmission by inoculation.—Considering the wide distribu- tion of tuberculous disease, and the fact that in many forms of it a discharge exists in which tubercle bacilli are more or less numerous, it is remarkable how very rare are examples in man of inoculation with tuberculosis through the medium of the skin or mucous mem- brane. It is evident that to effect much inoculation the circumstances must in one way or another be most exceptional. The pathologist at a large hospital for consumption must have his hands soaked for hours at a time with tuberculous pus. His knuckles cannot always be free from abrasions and scratches j and yet how very rarely does any development of tubercle occur at the undoubtedly inoculated spot. It is true that a certain form of “ anatomist’s tubercle ” has been shown to be, in actual fact, tuber- culous ; but the comparative rarity of even that readily-cured affection is noteworthy. As examples of the communication of the disease by inoculation, the following may be given. A sei’vant-maid wounded her finger in cleaning the spittoon of M