SYPHILIS. 424 develop, and one of the commonest signs of congenital sy[)liilis in later life is a flattened or sunken nose. From a similar cause the nasal septum fails to develop normally and the palate is consequently often high and arched (though this condition is by no means con- clusive of syphilis). A peculiar form of sujyeriicial glossitis must be alluded to here ; it consists of bald patches with well- defined circinate mar- gins, the area in- volved changing from day to day, so that the term “ wandering rash ” is applied to it. This curious lesion (it can hardly be called a disease) was claimed by M. Parrot as occurring only in congenital syphilitic infants and children, but this is certainly untrue, and it may be doubted whether it has any direct con- nection with syphilis. 3. Affec- tions of file toones.—The Note its occurrence at the angles of the mouth, where there were several fissures. The individual patches ^\ere soft, raised, reddish-brown in colour, and some were covered with scab. ■ efiect of the syphilitic poi- son upon the nutrition of the comparatively soft developing bones of young children leads to changes in the secondary stage—i.e. during the first two years—which have no parallel in the acquired disease of adult life. Craniotabes.—By this term is understood a thinning of the flat bones of the cranial vault, particularly the parietals and occipital, which occurs in somewhat circular patches, which may coalesce. No necrosis ever occurs, but the place of the bone may be %vholly taken by fibrous tissue, and the affection is obviously a defect of nutrition of the bone, aided by pressure of the child’s head as it lies in bed or on the nurse’s arm, since craniotabes is almost confined to the posterior regions of the skull-vault. It may be detected by the surgeon pressing his finger over this part whilst holding the head steady, a characteristic sensation of denting will be felt as the soft patch is depressed, which is compared to that of a thin tin box.