753 REPAIR OF FRACTURES. enable us to feel quite sure of our diagnosis. It is absent in incomplete fractures, in which there is no gliding of one fragment upon the other; in cases of firm impaction and interlocking, thougli it is often obtained when mobility cannot be discovered ; in cases of intervention of soft parts, of diastasis of fragments, and of their separation by overlapping. In the two latter instances it will be obtained on pressing the fragments together, or on extending them until they are drawn to the same level, and then moving them upon each other. Crepitus is obtained most easily between irregular freely movable ends of compact tissue placed superficially; comminution is favourable. Crepitus is less distinct with surfaces of cancellous bone, diagnosis in fractures of joint ends and of short bones being decidedly more difficult than in the case of shafts. It is least distinct, and is spoken of as “ soft crepitus ” in separations of epiphyses. Crepitus is the sig-n of fracture the ehciting of wliich causes most pain, and is often unnecessary to the diagnosis ; yet it is the most satisfactory evidence that the fragments are actually in contact, and should it be absent in circumstances which would seem favourable to its production, it is wise to seek for the explanation, lest delayed or non-union should result from some remediable cause. Narcosis greatly facilitates the obtaining of mobility and crepitus; but the patient’s struggles and the necessary endeavours to control them may be productive of much harm. In the case of a rib, crepitus may be heard by the ear applied to the chest when it cannot be otherwise detected. It is necessary to learn by experience to distinguish between crepitus and the crepitations produced by tenosynovitis, emphysema of connective tissue, and blood-clot; and to be on guard against mistaking grating in a rheumatoid joint for crepitus of bony frag- ments. Wlien there is reason to fear a fracture, but its existence can be neither proved nor disproved, one must be assumed to exist, and proper treatment adopted. REPAIR OF FRACTURES. Naked-eye changes.—On examining a recent fracture we find the sharp fragments, more or less displaced, lying in the midst of a collection of fluid blood, which clots slowly and varies much in amount and in the extent to which it infiltrates the medulla and the sur- rounding connective tissue. The periosteum is generally torn through all round, often very irregularly, and it is sometimes widely stripped from the fragments. The soft parts round about, especially the muscles, are torn and bi’uised in varying degree. At the end of the Ji7'si loeek they are covered with clot; the fluid portion of the extravasation is becoming absorbed or is already gone; the clot is becoming peripherally decolox’ised. The injured soft parts to which it adlieres are swollen, and their special structure is obscured ; they present the homogeneous, translucent, pinkish grey