238 MILITARY SURGERY. Shock in some degree almost always accompanies gunshot wounds. It may be general or local. General shock is especially present in wounds from massive projectiles, in abdominal wounds, or where a limb of the body has been carried away. The severity of the shock and its long continuance indicate that some important organ has been wounded. It occurs less frequently where the soft parts only have been wounded. The usual symptoms are present. A pale cold skin, sunken eye, cold sweats, great flaccidity of the integument, fre- quent, small and scarcely perceptible pulse, with quickened supei’ficial breathing. There is marked apathy, but consciousness is retained. Should death not supervene, the above state passes into that of reaction. ^ The eyes lose their sunken state, the face flushes, the tem- perature rises, the pulse becomes stronger, and often delirium sets in. In local shock the wounded part only is affected. The part in question is cold and pallid, without sensation or motion, or possibly abnormal sensations such as formication may be felt. This local shock may either become general or gradually disappear. As regards prognosis, the loss of temperature is the most im- portant feature. R^dard, with reference to this, states that every wounded man brought to hospital with a temperature of 96° P. will die, according to his experience. Again, if reaction does not come on by the end of the fourth hour, and in direct ratio to the previous fall, the condition is one of jeoj^ardy. Syncope, resulting immediately on receipt of a wound, occurs especially where the large nervous trunks are implicated. Psychical effects may also cause fainting. Thirst is nearly always intensely felt, being produced by the excitement undergone, by fatigue, dust and heat. Lastly, a condition sometimes observed after instantaneous death from gunshot wounds is that of instantaneous rigor mortis. The rationale of this occurrence is not yet determined. It is said to occur especially after wounds of the cerebro-spinal axis, and after death from haemorrhage. In this condition the attitude of the soldier at the moment of death is preserved even against the force of gravity. It cannot be due to cold, as it has occurred when the temperature has been high. Local symptoms.—Primary hcemorrhage arises from one of the large vessels being cut across, or it may be capillary. It has been comparatively rarely met with as a dangerous factor on the field of battle, the wounds hitherto inflicted having been seldom clean cut, but being generally contused or lacerated. Death, however, from primary hsemorrhage is likely to happen more frequently in the future from the magazine bullet, as a cleaner and more incised wound is made. Wounds of the main vessels may be fatal immediately, but are not necessarily so, for the haemorrhage may be temporarily arrested by the retraction and curling-up of the inner coats of the artery. Thus a ■tvound cutting completely across a vessel is less dangerous than a partial wound of the vessel wall. Where the haemorrhage is capillary, it will ooze slowly, staining the surrounding tissues, and can usually be arrested by slight pressure.