aneurysmal VAEIX. siiniiltaneously wounded; the result was that a communication formed between the artery and its companion vein, and anotlier between the two wounded veins, so that blood passed from the artery first into the humeral vein, and then on into the median- basilic vein. i.- 1 xi • In the days when bleeding was very commonly practised, tins condition was much more frequent than it is now. A remarkable instance of the idiopathic origin of aneurysmal varix has been recorded by Pemberton, in which a communication formed between the common femoral artery and vein some time after prolonged compression of the artery for aneurysm (Fig. 182). Aneurysmal varix, whilst most common at the elbow, has been met with in the skull, the neck, the axilla, the abdomen, and the thi"h. A few years ago a patient with aneurysmal varix in Hunter’s canal, resulting from a stab wound in tlie thigh, was in Middlesex Hospital under Mr. Lawson. Pathological changes.—Whatever the original shape of the aperture between the two vessels, it soon becomes rounded, smooth, and thickened. The artery for some distance above is dilated and its walls are thinned; below the communication it is sometimes narrowed, sometimes dilated ; the dilatation is said not to affect the branches of the artery in any case. The vein opposite the communi-' cation is dilated into a globular or fusiform pouch with thickened walls. The venous dilatation—varix—extends along the vein in both directions and into its branches; below the communication the enlarged veins are tortuous and pouched, but above it they are simply enlarged. The interior of the vein may show atheromatous changes. The pressure in the artery being much greater than in the vein, artei’ial blood is forced per saltum into the vein and this causes three effects : (1) The vein opposite the aperture becomes dilated and thickened; (2) the increased quantity of blood returned to the heart from the vein causes the enlargement of the vein on the cardiac side; (3) the return of blood entering the vein below the aperture is obstructed by the forcible flow passing from the artery, and this leads to the dilatation of the veins below the communica- tion. Signs and diagnosis.—The varix forms a soft, compressible, often ill-defined tumour in the course of a vein, into which dilated veins can be traced, both from above and below. This varix is the seat of a forcible expansile pulsation, a continuous very marked vibra- tory thrill, and a very loud bruit. The bruit is a continuous rasping, purring, hissing, or rushing sound, sometimes compared to the noise of distant machinery in motion, or to the sound of a fly in a paper box. It is usually of great intensity and may be audible even to the patient and to bystanders. The pulsation, bruit, and thrill are all conducted for some distance along the distended veins, but with gradually diminishing intensity, and the bruit and thrill lose their continuous character at a little distance from the abnormal commu-