INJURIES Ob' ROE EE. 731 that the liumerus was the seat in 57, the femur in 25, the legs and fore-arm bones in 8 and 5 instances respectively. The humerus has usually been broken either in lifting a weight or in an action like that of throwing a stone or striking a blow which misses its object. In the latter case the shoulder muscles stop the upper end of the bone, whilst the rest of the limb moves on, a fracture resulting, which has been compared to that of a swinging stick just beyond tlie grasp of the hand. The fore-arm bones have rarely been broken by forcible pronation and supination, as in wringing clothes. In many of the fractures of the femur attributed to muscular action, the momentum of the body turning upon the limb has intro- duced the question of torsion ; and it seems likely that the same may be said of the much rarer fractures of the tibia. Strong action of the biceps has occasionally torn off the upper fibular epiphysis. All fractures such as the above should be carefully examined for some pathological predisposing cause; only such cases are classed as fractures from muscular action in which no such predisponent is found. VAIUETIES OF FRACTURE. Classification.—The most important divisions of fracture.s— simple, compound, and complicated—are based upon the condition of tlie soft parts ; less important \ arieties rest upon the condition of the bone. A fracture is simple when there is no wound of the soft parts admitting air to the fracture. The presence of a wound not com- municating with the fracture does not render the latter compound, but practically it is impossible to draw-the line when a wound exists over a fracture. A fracture is 'primarily compound when a wound, rendering direct infection possible, is inflicted at the same tune as the fracture; it is secondarily compound when such a wound is formed later, as the result of late perforation of the skin by a frag- ment, of an incision, or of the separation of a slough. The later a fracture becomes com])ound—the more freely the injured tissues are granulating—the less dangerous is sepsis. Either a simple or a com- pound fracture may be complicated by great bruising and extensive stripping up of skin from the fascia, by unusual laceration of muscles, by wounds of many or important arteries or veins, by^ injury to nerve trunks, by tearing of ligaments, and by dislocation of the fractured bone. No description of the naked-eye appearances due to the above lesions is necessary. Blood-stained fluid soaks far and wide, and, clotting on torn surfaces soon conceals tlieir structure; but round about the broken bones the blood generally remains fluid for days. The conditions of the bone, upon which varieties are based, deserve careful study. , , , i ^ i Condition of the bone.—The bone may be broken completely through into two or more distiirct pieces {complete fracture), or the solution of continuity may be incomplete {incomplete fracture). A fracture is complete, even though the periosteum be untorn, and