11‘26 DISilASES OF JOINTS. The ti'CiUmciit is the same for all acute joint effusions. (See page 1034.) In all cases absolute rest for the part above all. This is best carried out on an angular splint placed on the inner aspect of the linibj and adapted to its position of semi-flexion and semi- pronation. Having secured the joint upon this, leeches may be applied in sthenic cases, and when they have done their work and Jiave withdrawn a considerable quantity of blood, hot fomentations should follow. By these means the vascular tension will usually be soon relieved, and the absorption of the effusion within the joint will follow. If there is much delay in the latter, an aspirator may be cautiously used through one of the distended pouches behind, and the fluid may be drawn off. After this, if the joint refill, it may be again aspirated, or, by a succession of blisters applied over the lateral aspects, the fluid may be made to disappear. Later, massage and gentle passive movement may be begun, until all stiffness ha« passed off, and active movements will follow as soon as the pain subsides. In the suppurative forms of the disease, whether traumatic or pysemic, the general symptoms will be the same as in the last aflection, with the addition of deep redness and oedema round the joint, and high fever. Here no time should be lost in relieving the cavity by free incisions. These should be jflaced at either side of the olecranon behind, and ought to lay the synovial sac freely open, so that evei’y part of the joint can be washed out thoroughly with one of the antiseptic solutions. Drainage should be provided for in these cases until the inflammatory process has quieted down, and then the drains must be at once removed, and the incisions encouraged to close. During all this time the joint must be kept upon a suitable splint at right angles, or at a somewhat acute angle, so that if anchylosis be the sequel the limb may be in the position of greatest usefulness. But the po.sition should be altered occasionally to the straight line, and then returned to the right angle, so that adhesions forming may be stretched. The older practice of subjecting the joint to constant passive movement during the process of repair is now almost entirely abandoned, as tending to keep up the inflam- mation and increase the plastic exudation. Only when the separa- tive process is nearly completed should movement be begun. In other words, as soon as the patient begins to feel that the joint can be gently flexed and extended without pain. Massage and passive movement, as soon as all inflammatory action has subsided, will be necessary for long periods, to restore these movements of the joint. The simple subacute and clirouic focnis of sji»ovilis of the elbow have the same general pathology as in the case of other joints (see page 1036), and need no special description. The treatment of the subacute form consists in rest in the position of greatest ease, with blisters and rubefacients. In those cases where much efl'usion remains, aspiration is proper, followed by stra))ping or elastic bandaging and massage. In the chronic form the treatment is practically the same, but