‘ SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. 6 been obooi'ved, not only as to their structure and functions, but also as to their growth en masse. The functions may vary very greatly even in the case of micro-organisms which are apparently morpho- logically identical, whilst similar functions are sometimes observed in organisms which under the microscope present very marked and characteristic differences. The most prominent of all the naked-eye features is colour ; the Bacillus prodigiosus produces the well-known blood-red appear- ance which gives rise to what is known as “ bloody sweat ”; the red bacillus from the harbour water of Kiel has also a characteristic colour; whilst the magenta micrococcus, the Bacillus violaceus, the Bacillus pyocyaneus, the bacillus of blue pus, and the blue milk bacillus, may be instanced as bacteria in which colour formation is a most characteristic feature, often enabling us to distinguish one micro-organism from others which have very similar or even identical microscopic appearances. Some of these colour-producing organisms, and a number of others, have an additional function, that of digesting, peptonising, and liquefying a gelatine medium i^ig. l)in which they are growing; others, however, do not develop this power of digestion, so that here attain is a diagnostic feature which facilitates the classification of certain groups of micro-organisms. This power of peptonisation is a feature of very great importance in the series of pathogenic germs, as it is found that a large number of the parasitic infective bactei’ia possess it in a most remarkable degree; in fact, in some cases the degree of peptonisation appears to run concurrently with the patho- genic activity of the micro-organism, though there are undoubtedly exceptions to this rule. Two very prominent examples, the anthrax bacillus and the Staphylococcus aureus, may be taken. The virulent anthrax bacillus sets up a rapid liquefaction of the gelatine; this begins at the snrface (Fig. 2) and becomes less and less as the surface is left. The Staphylococcus aureus, or, as it was first described by Becker, the staphylococcus of osteomyelitis, when active, also (sets up extreme liquefaction, the gelatine becommg slightly turbid and the organism falling down through the lique- fied gelatine to form, an orange-coloured mass at the bottom of a kind of funnel. Other examples will be found in the descriptions that follow. , £ 4.- £ Much information may be gathered as to the functions ot bacteria, by growing them on milk. The proteids in the milk may be simply precipitated as the result of an acid fermenmtion, the casein being thrown down in larger or smaller flakes in different cases. Again, the casein may be first precipitated and then digested or peptonised by the action of enzymes, or the enzyme may come into play at once and bring about peptonisation of the ca^in, witti- out tlie intervention of any preliminary coagulation. Then, to(^ the physical characters of the milk—its appearance taste, and smell, and its chemical reactions—may indicate the formation of different colouring matters, various acids, alcohols, ethei*s, and