361 TEE TUBERCULOUS ULCER. Certain tuberculous affections.- certain tuberculous troubles which are not -It >vill be convenient to describe in this place readily included in other Articles. ^ j. •+! Tiie tiiberciilOHS ulcer.—This ulcer, when met with on the skin is usually dependent upon the bursting of a tuberculous abscess, or is found about tuberculous sinuses, or has followed the breaking down of a “ strumous node.” {Seepage 122.) They are common, therefore, on the neck in connection with suppurating gland disease, about diseased joints and bones in association with discharging sinuses, about chronic abscesses—such as the ischio-rectal which have found a vent through the skin, and in other parts in which there has been infection of the skin. They may be primary, and due to inoculation {see page 353); but, as will be already evident, the tubercular ulcer of the skin is usually secondary (Fig. 70). The ulcer, when fuUy developed, has these characters. It is of irregular outline j the edge is neither raised nor indurated, but is flat and thin. The skin around the ulcer is a purple colour, and the margin of the ulcer is undermined so far as this discoloured in- tegument extends. The degree of the undermining is often considerable, and can be estimated by a bent probe (Fig. 19). The base of the ulcer is commonly irregular and dirty, exhibiting no disposition to healthy healing, or is covered over with pale and cedematous gianulations. These granulations may project above the surface of the surrounding skin. The under- mined skin around the ulcer is apt to give way in places, and in this way holes and irregular breaches in the skin in the vicinity of the main ulcer may be produced. It is the insidious under- mining of the integument, and the absence of a protecting barrier of sound lymph, wliich give the main features to the tuberculous idcer. The scars that result from this form of ulceration vary, and are most commonly drawn attention to when situated in the neck. In some instances the resulting cicatrix is surprisingly soft, simple, and pliant. In other instances the scar left is irregular, hard, bossy, raised, and unsightly, by reason of its purple colour. Now and then, as the result of the undermining and irregular destruction of the integirments, the scar may be marked by tags of skin or bridges, or bars of skin not unlike the columnse carnese of the heart. Often the scar shows—when there has been deep suppuration—a severe degree of contraction, whereby unsightly depressions are produced on the surface. In many instances I have made microscopical sections of exuberant scars from tuberculous subjects, and have found that they Fig. 70.—Tuberculous Ulcer (with Gland Disease) ina Patient dying of Phthisis.