WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 206 in the gi-anulations developing into fibrous tissue and joining the cells on the opposite surface of the wound. This is not a method of healing to be aimed at at the present time, because, apart from the fact that we can obtain healing more rapidly in other ways, pus is apt to accumulate at some part where the granulations have not been actually in contact, or where the suppurative process is going on more actively, and consequently the wound may have to be opened up. It is, however, well to bear in mind that granulating surfaces will adhere in this way under suitable conditions, and if proper provision be made for the escape of discharge from parts of the wound where the surfaces do not come properly in contact, it is a plan which may be employed in certain instances. 4. Healing by blood clot.—This is a method of healing which only occurs in aseptic wounds, and which was, there- fore, undescribed and but seldom ob- served before the Listerian era. In this case the edges of the wounds are not brought together in the first instance. Fig. 39.—Cicatrix, showing the great Decrease of Vascularity, and the fact that there is no Regeneration of any of the complex Structures of the Skin such as Hair and Glands. A cavity is left into which bleeding goes on, this blood accumulating and filling it up with clot. As the result of the operation itself, lymph is poured out as usual on the surface of the wound be- tween it and the clot, and no septic organisms coming into play, and the wound being kept at rest, the clot re- mains in it, and no further exudation takes place on the cut surfaces. Hence, in the course of a few hours, leu- cocytes which have passed out of the blood-vessels begin to penetrate into the clot, and, as shown by the researches of Ballance and Sherrington, collect around the nodal points of the fibrine, and proceed to destroy the red corpuscles in the clot. Following them, there is an emigration into the clot of the laro-er plasma cells derived from the connective tissue corpuscles, which in their turn prey upon and remove the white corpuscles, and at the same time become elongated and spindle-shaped, and develop into fibrous tissue. Hence, after a few days, those portions of the clot in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound are infiltrated with cells which are developing into fibrous tissue, and very soon the whole thickness of the clot becomes similarly attacked. During this process the clot itself is absolutely inert, and simply acts as a mould into which the cells penetrate, and as a pabulum, more especially for the white corpuscles. After a time, when this process has crone on to a considerable extent, and reached to or near the surface of the clot, epitlielium begins to spread from the divided edcres of the skin over this organising material, usually under a thin