TETANUS. 192 in St. Bartliolomow’s Ho-spital with a septic and lacerated wound of the buttock. Fever is not a necessary accompaniment of tetanus. The tem- perature is sometimes normal throughout an attack. As a rule, however, a moderate rise of temperature is met with, the ther- mometer registering 100® F. to 102® F. Just before death, as Wunderlich pointed out, hyperpyrexia is common. Thus a tempera- ture of 110® F. has been seen before death, and immediately after has risen to 112° F. As a rule, profuse perspiration accompanies the tetanic convul- sions. The exudation may be sufficient to soak the garments of the patient and the bed-clothes. It has been supposed by some that this free secretion of sweat has a favourable influence upon the course of the disease, and, therefore, it has been promoted by vapour baths, and by the subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine. Both of these I’emedies have enjoyed some repute. In tetanus i\i& pulse only undergoes such alterations as might be expected to be caused by the violent exertions of the muscles. At first it is natural, and merely increases in frequency during the con- vulsions. When exhaustion supervenes, it beats feebly, and with uncountable rapidity. By some this last symptom has had import- ance attached to it, and it has been considered a sign of paralysis of the vagus. Many patients die from sudden cessation of the heart’s beat. It is much disputed whether this is due to cardiac paralysis or to cardiac spasm. Respiration is unembarrassed so long as its muscles are unaffected. It merely becomes deeper and quicker during the convulsions. ^ But when the abdominal muscles become rigid, they cease to act in ex- piration, and as the muscles attached to the thorax become tetanic, the chest is held “as if in a vice,” and dyspnoea becomes an urgent symptom. The diaphragm, without doubt, participates in the tetanic spasm, and its forcible contractions help to account both for the dyspnoea and for the pain which is so often complained of in the sternum and pit of the stomach. The fear of impending suffocation is one of the most painful features of this horrible disease. The spasm of the respiratory muscles may be so extreme as to cause sudden death, and sometimes this occurs at a very early stage. It is also probable that the muscles of the glottis may be involved in the spasm, the patient becoming deeply cyanosed during the closure of that aperture. In the case of a man aged 27, who was inoculated through an ulcer caused by a plaster case, tracheotomy was per- formed without any relief of the dyspnoea and cyanosis.* But accord- ing to Bauer, the danger of dyspnoea is always obviated by the muscular relaxation spontaneously caused by the carbonic-acid ^ The wriwe is usually normal in tetanus, although albumiiivma and hiematuria are said to have been observed. Both of these conditions are * .St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, 1S84.