WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 226 as far as possible to place the patient in a good state of health. Foi example, in operating for cleft palate, one should see that the patient has had a good holiday, and that his general health is good ; secondly, one must perform the operation as neatly as possible, and more especially avoid any bruising of the surface of the wound, or any application of antiseptic substances to it; then thirdly, the wound must be accurately united throughout the whole extent, and not merely at its mucous surfaces, and care should be taken that blood, saliva, or any septic material is thoroughly removed from the surface of the wound before the stitches are fastened. Further, as regards the stitches themselves, they should be of some soft material which will not cause irritation, which will yield to the movements of the part, and which is not porous, such as horsehair or fine cat- gut. Finally, the part should be kept as much at rest as possible, and great attention paid to the strength and general condition of the patient. Where union by first intention fails in such cases, the use of iodoform is very good, the part, of course, being placed as completely at rest as may be. 2. Accidental wounds.—Finally, we must consider now the treatment in cases where wounds which have been recently infiicted have not been made by the surgeon. Examples are afforded by suicidal wounds, wounds caused by the wheel of a vehicle, etc. In such cases we usually have not to deal with a clean-cut wound, but with a contused or lacerated one; and I shall presently speak of the charac- teristics and treatment of these wounds. But the great point with regard to the treatment in these cases is that dirt has almost cer- tainly entered the wounds, and, if it be not neutralised, will give rise to sepsis ; hence, the first factor in the treatment is thorough disinfection, and this is more especially imperative where the wound has been caused by the wheel of a vehicle, and where, therefore, a large amount of dirt and earth has been ground into the part. In such circumstances it is often necessary to anaes- thetise the patient, to lay the wound freely open and thoroughly scrub it with a nail brush and the strong mixture (page 214) till the dirt and grease have been as completely removed as possible. In badly soiled cases I think it is best to sponge the whole surface of the wound with undiluted carbolic acid. Although this produces a minute layer of slough, still it more eflectually destroys the organisms than any other method. In these wmunds, also, no attempt should be made to secure union by first intention along their whole extent. Apart from the fact that the edges are contused, and will not in all probability properly unite, it would not do to stitch the wound closely together, because in spite of the most careful attempts at disinfection, one sometirnes fails in attaining the object, and one must therefore always provide for free exit of discharge by means of drainage-tubes if necessaiy. The utmost that one should do in the way of stitches in the first instance, till the asepticity of the wound is clear, is to put in one or two so as to hold the flaps in position. This is an essential element