754 INJURIES OF BONES. Fig. 216.—A lon^tu- dinal Section of the Tibia of a young Dog killed ten days after a tean averse Frac- ture without Dis- placement. The line of fracture is clear; no tissue can be distinguished be- tween the fragments. These are held toge- ther by an oval mass of external callus, most freely deve- loped on the poste- rior, muscle-covered surface; and by a plug of internal cal- lus in the medullary canal which does not extend so far as the external up and down from the fis- sure. The external callus consists of finely porous bone which has evidently appeared first in the angles between the bone and the raised appearance of soft parts infiltrated by an inflam- matory exudation; and all—periosteum, muscles, fat, connective tissue—are welded into an ir- regular mass. By the end of the second week (tenth to four- teenth day) clot has disappeared or remains only here and there, especially near the fissure ; but there is a widespread staining. The mass of swollen soft parts is now more regular in out- line, and in it can be detected a spindle-shaped swelling about the fragments, limited by a mem- brane, which is continuous with the periosteum above and below, and which separates the em- bryonic tissue for the repair of soft parts from that for the repair of the bone. The bruised yellow marrow above and below the fracture has been replaced by vascular granulation tissue, which has blended across the cleft, and a similar tissue is creeping from without between the broken ends. The ends of the fragments are now united by this new tissue, much as if they had been pressed into a mass of hot sealing wax (Billroth). The new tissue is called “callus” —“provisional” or “ temporary,” because more or less of it is destined ultimately to disappear. That which lies between the periosteum and the bone is called “external” or “periosteal”; that in the medullary canal “internal,” “endosteal,” or “myeloid”; that between the fragments “in- termediary” (Fig. 221). The periosteal callus is the most freely developed, though it rarely, if ever, forms so complete a sheath around the frag- ments in man as it does in animals (Fig. 216). It is most strongly marked in angles due to dis- placement of the fragments and accompanied by stripping up of the periosteum (Fig. 217), and it extends for some distance upon the fi’agments, ending gradually. -A.t first the whole callus is soft, translucent, red and vascular in the living, and pinkish-grey in the dead state; but it gradu- ally becomes firmer. It now ossifies either di- rectly or after becoming fibrous or cartilaginous. In animals more or less cartilage usually appears particularly in the neighbourhood of the cleft (Fig. 216); but in man it is only occasionally seen. lieiiosteum, and has spread thence in ^ n — libro-cartllage towards the fissure—most rapidly in actual contact with the shaft. Between the two wedge-shaped masses of hone on each side, a triangular area of flbro-cartilage re- mains at the level of the fissure. In the internal callus at this level only a few flecks of flbro-cartilage remain. The periosteum is thickened over the callus tumour. The produc- tion of bony callus is much earlier and fi’eer than in the following specimens from man.