705 PEUFORATINO ULOEJi. associated witli foul sweating of the foot. Tlie passage of a prol:>e will often demonstrate the presence of rough bare bone, and movement of the subjacent joint may result in grating of the carious surfaces. Pain is, as a rule, not severe. Treatnient.—These ulcers are usually most amenable to treatment, and it is quite eiToneous to suppose tliat they do not heal. Tlieir situa- tion suggests at once that pressure may act as an e.Kciting cause, and the first indioation, therefore, is to keep the patient oflf the affected foot. Unless this is done other treatment is useless. In addition to this precaution, but little is re- quired beyond ordinai-y cleanliness and care. After the surroundina: unhealthy skin has been cut away, the use of a foot bath for some hours daily and boracic fomentations are generally necessary when cases first come under treatment; and at a later stage iodoform powder or some stimulating application—such as ungueiitum resinte, or a solution of sulphate of zinc—is indicated. In many cases where the joint sur- faces are carious, good results may be obtained without operation, but sometimes it becomes necessary to gouge away the diseased bone in order to promote a cure. When tlie ulcer has healed, it must be pro- tected from pressure by a suitable felt pad with a central hole, inserted in the boot, or else applied in tlie form of a corn-plaister. These ulcers are very liable to break out again and again, as the result of renewed Fig. 108.—Bones from a Case of Perforat- ing TJlcer, showing caries and also destruction of the terminal phalanges. pressure in walking, and constant care is necessary to keep tlie foot sound. In a very few cases wiiicli resist treatment, as above, there is extensive sloughing of the soft tissues of the sole of the foot. Anipu tation rmj be performed : but amputation, as a routine treatment, is uncalled for and most unsatisfactory in its results, as the ulcer often recurs in the stump. It is best to reserve such treatment for those cases where there is not merely an ulcer, but sloughing or gangrene aiicl in these also the results are usually disappointing.