304 SUEGIOAL DISEASES DUE TO MICROBIO INFECTION. into two stages—that of invasion and that of excitement. The typical paralytic stage occurring in dogs is replaced in man, as a rule, by exhaustion. The stag-c of invasion is insidious, and may be absent or pass unnoticed. It is characterised by mental depression, irrita- bility, with an ill-defined feeling of apprehension, and malaise. The patient looks pale and anxious and is restless. He may talk freely, the sentences being sometimes interrupted by sighing inspiration, but usually shows great unwillingne.ss to speak about the possible cause of his illness. Sleep is broken often by dreams ; the mouth is dry, the patient complains of thirst, but is disinclined to swallow. Loss of appetite, a feeling of nausea, with epigastric uneasiness, follow ; the pulse is quickened, sometimes becoming very rapid ; and the respirations are proportionately hurried and shallow. There is general hyperaesthesia and often increase in sexual desire. The stage of excitement.—In two to three days these symptoms undergo further development. Mental agitation increases •, ill-defined terror takes hold of the patient. He speaks excitedly in abrupt sentences and may suffer from hallucinations. The facial expression corresponds with the mental state, the brows are con- tracted and the face is pale, while the eyes are bright and wander constantly over the patient’s surroundings. The mouth and fauces become congested and the patient ejects thick tenacious mucus with difficulty and much noise, and without any regard for those attending upon him. Solids can often still be swallowed; but while thirst is commonly severe, the dread of all liquids increases rapidly. When asked to drink, the patient takes the vessel with much precaution, often closing his eyes, and, feeling that he is making a crucial experiment, raises it with slow precision to his lips. The whole attention is devoted to the effort, which results usually in the violent ejection of the small quantity of fluid in- troduced. Intense agitation follows, the vessel being frequently thrown away, and a convulsive attack is often induced. The patient shudders, spasmodic movements of deglutition and respiration follow, the nares dilate, the commissures of the lips tighten, the scalenes, sterno-mastoids, respiratory and abdominal muscles contract successively, and then the entire muscular system, respiration being entirely suspended for some moments. These convulsive attacks may occur consecutively, like those of sobbing or weeping, continuing even for thirty to forty minutes; and during one of them the patient occasionally dies from syncope even as early as the second day. The general hypersesthesia heightens, and increasingly severe convulsive attacks may be induced by the weight of the bed-clothes, draughts of air, bright light, and loud or unfamiliar sounds, the sound of running water being especially irritative. The mental condition is highly characteristic. The patient looks around with suspicion, often com- plains that his medical attendant does nothing for him, shows a great aversion to onlookers, and is surly and morose. This state may alternate with one of maniacal excitement, the patient throwing