2*8 MILITARY SURGERY. it is completely cut across. Arrived at the dressing station, the artery should be ligatured above and below the site of wound ; the peripheral end must be found, notwithstanding the difficulty often experienced in so doing. Esmarch strongly recommends that the vessel should be tied above and below at the seat of the lesion, under rigid antisepsis. To effect this, the large size of the necessary incision need not now be a counter-indication. The surgeon should tui n out the clots, and then tie the vessel. He should also isolate and separately ligature any branches given off from the impaired part of the trunk. Secondary lijemorrhage is due either to septic processes breaking down the thrombus in the vessel, or to its puncture by splinters. In the latter case the surgeon should remove the splinters, and tie the vessel above and below the lesion. But when due to septic processes, it is necessary either to ligature at a distance or to amputate. Mosetig-Moorhof, however, relates a case of secondary hsemorrhage in the clavicular region, which was treated successfully by an iodoform gauze tampon, and other cases similarly treated, affecting the vertebral and posterior tibial arteries. (2) Ve^ious.—If a small vein be wounded, use an antiseptic compress. If a large, tie above and below. Kiister recommends compression of the vein by small clamps for twelve to twenty-four hours. Where secondary haemorrhage occurs from a lai'ge vein, the prognosis is bad. (3) Parenchymatous.—When primary, raise the limb; apply ice; employ local pressure with an antiseptic tampon, or use styptics, the best of which is iodoform. Neudoifer recommends a tampon impregnated with a 5 per cent, solution of peroxide of hydrogen. When secondary, the thermo-cautery or zinc chloride may be used. In cases of general sepsis, amputation has often been rendered necessary. Lastly, how should those cases be treated where the haemorrhage is suspended when the case comes before the surgeon? Fischer, Legouest, and Delorme advise that the vessel be sought for and tied; whereas Guthrie and Dupuytren and others hold that the parts be immobilised, a compress applied, and that the surgeon wait for events. The best practice would appear to be to cut down and tie above and below if the wounded artery be important and easily accessible, otherwise to follow out the second alternative. The sequelae following ligature of the principal vessels are (especially where the tissues are much infiltrated with blood) gan- grene of the extremities, and extensive oedema of the distal parts. The treatment of fracture.—The course of gunshot injuries of bone is chiefly influenced by the accompanying condition of the soft parts, the state of the splinters, and especially by the treatment first employed. Where the continuity of the bone is entire, as in “gutter” fractures, contusions, simple penetration, and fissured fractures, the surgeon should freely bathe the parts with an antiseptic lotion, and then immobilise them under an antiseptic dressing in