784 INJURIES OF BONES. between the bones; and to the greater number of arteries in the leg of size sufficient to give rise to symptoms. Whilst the leg vessels suffer more often than the femoral (about 1 to 1'5), and the femoral is rarely injured above the lower third of the thigh, the axillary is involved as. often as the brachial, and the fore-arm arteries very exceptionally. The conditions met with are complete division, wound, rupture of the inner coats and consequent thrombosis, and simple com- pression, leading to thrombosis, by or between dislocated fragments or splinters. Each may be brought about by either direct or indirect violence, though rupture of the internal and middle coats is usually caused by direct violence crushing a vessel against a bone. The wounds present sharp or torn edges, according to the nature of the violence and of the fragments; in complete lacerations the ends may be sealed by the pulled-out external coat, just as when parts are torn off. Complete division and wound are about equally frequent—the chance that bleeding will be arrested being less in the latter case. Rupture of the inner coats from contusion and compression is relatively rare. The popliteal and the anterior tibial are almost the only vessels compression of which has been noted. The anterior tibial has occasionally been torn by stretching where it passes through the interosseous membrane. {See also p. 500.) Few cases of compression or wound of veins only are recorded as complicating fractures; venous anastomoses are too free as a rule, the blood pressure too low to cause serious symptoms. But the addition of an injury of a main vein to an injury of the main artery may be veiy serious. The results of the above injuries to vessels are :—(1) extensive extravasation into the tissue, with (2) more or less external haemorrhage in compound cases; (3) the formation of an arterial or venous haematoma; (4) gangrene; (5) venous thrombosis and embolism. When an artery has been wounded or divided, and the wound remains open, blood is pumped into the tissues, and forced to a greater or less distance up and down the limb—the distance varying with the blood pressure, the laxity of the areolar planes, the size of the wound, and the tendency of the blood to coagulate and form a wall to the extravasation. Under unfavourable conditions the limb becomes more and more swollen, especially in the neigh- bourhood of the fracture, its surface cold and pale or bluish, mottled by vessels containing stagnant blood, or by actual extravasation ; if there was a pulse beyond the fracture at first, it disappears as the tension of the limb increases; colour beneath the nails disappears slowly under pressure, and returns even more slowlythe early tensive pain dies away, and is replaced by increasing insmisitive- ness. Moist gangrene is imminent. Under opposite conditions the swelling spreads and increases slowly, and is ultimately brought to a standstill; the circulation in the distal parts, though much impeded continues sufficiently to assure the surgeon that recovery