DISLOGATIONS. 1016 inilammatory outgrowths found in chronic arthritis may also be detached, and (3) that these conditions may closely simulate in their symptoms a true displacement of the main body of the cartilage. Syiiiptoiiis.—After a sudden external twist of the knee, as in alighting from a vehicle, or turning rapidly while playing football, a sudden severe pain is felt in the joint, followed shortly by some effusion. This limb is usually held in the slightly flexed position, and complete flexion and extension cannot be performed. The patient can walk, but he keeps the knee slightly flexed and stiff, and is con- scious that “ all is not right ” with the articulation. Passive flexion and extension can be performed, but not to the full degree. There are great differ- ences in these cases in the severity of the symptoms com- plained of. A projection may be felt on the inner side of the joint, and pain is usually experienced here on pressure. In the case of vertical dis- placements, a depression may be detected. The reader will see that the group of symp- toms above related closely simulate those of “ loose carti- lage ” within the knee-joint, especially when a pre-existing inflammatory, pedunculated outgrowth is detached by a wrench or twist. Lateral movement of the tibia upon the femur may be detected Fig. 420.—Vertical Di.spiacemont of part of tiie on firmly grasping the leg External Semi-lunar Cartilage. (After Gocllee.) thigh, and making appro- priate manipulations (Treves). Ti'calmciif.—Should any projection be felt at the inner side of the joint, the thumb should be firmly pressed upon it, and the leg flexed. The leg is now brought up suddenly in full ex- tension, rotating inwards and outwards at the same time. _ This process’is often agonisingly painful, and full anmsthesia with nitrous oxide gas is very advantageous. Afterwards, in recent cases, the joint should be fixed in plaster of Paris for at least five weeks, to allow the torn or displaced cartilage to unite. An apparatus must be worn for three months, or longer, should lateral movement of the tibia on the femur be obvious on manipulation (Fig. 421). Kecurrence of the symptoms is very frequent from any slight twist or muscular exertion beyond the common ; and soiimtimes- this happens so frequently that the aflfection becomes cliromc, and the