ANKIjPj joint mSPASP. J119 ankle, or by Syine’s method if possible, should not be too long postponed. Neuralgia of the ankle.—This is very prone to follow the ordinary iiillaminatory diseases of the part, and is often a source of much trouble to the patient. Indeed, the ankle like the wrist re- quires frequently a long time to recover from the pamful efl'ects of disease. The diagnosis will be based upon those general considera- tions already alluded to (page 1074), and upon the absence of any objective evidence of mischief. The fi’catment is that for neuralgia, as it occurs any- where in the body; the local will consist in blistering, repeated in different spots along the painful area. In addition, passive move- ment and massage are necessary in many cases to lead up to active movement. This must be encouraged as much as possible, both on account of the local condition and of the general health. Patients are only too prone to spare the painful joint, and in doing so injure their general health by want of exercise, while at the same time the nutrition of the parts round the ankle remains defective, and the morbid change inducing the neui-algia is not shaken off. These patients, therefore, should be encouraged to walk and run about in the fresh air, to an extent sufficient to secure abundant bodily exer- cise without over-fatigue. Then when in the house the ankle should be rested on a chair. Good rubbing before going to bed at night, and the wearing of thick woollen stockings in bed if the foot is in- clmed to be cold, will also materially assist the cure. Neoplasms about the ankle.—These cannot be said to be com- mon, but are occasionally met with starting from the bones of the leg or tarsus, or under the periosteum. They are usually either of the chondroma type, or belong to the varieties of sarcoma. They are likely to be mistaken in their early stages for tuberculous swellings connected with the joint or tendon sheaths. An exploration will very easily settle the question of their existence or not. When present nothing can be done but amputation well above the growth. Cysts of the ankle.—These are occasionally met with in the form of distended synovial bursae or tendon sheaths, or offshoots of either. Kemerabering that the pathological changes of synovial bursae and tendon coverings are the same as those of the joints practically, we need not describe them more minutely here, as they have been already dealt with. {See page 1069.) The treatment is also, on the whole, the same, except that these synovial cysts can be very easily dissected out from the parts round the ankle, and this should be done fairly early, before the effects of their pressure have gone too far. Loose bodies in the ankle.-These are very uncommon, and are rarely the cause of inconvenience. Their pathology and treatment is the same as that suitable when they appear In the knee (page 1070). Osteo-arthritis of the ankle. —This is not as coimnon an affection as that of the hip and knee, but may be met with from