836 iNJUltlES OF BONES. neck, shaft, and lower extrennty in the adult, and the narrow portion of the neck in the aged. The fractures are grouped into those of the upper end, of the shaft, and of the lower end. Fractures of the upper end of the femur include; (1) separation of the upper epiphysis; (2) fractures of the neck ; (3) fracture of the great trochanter, or separation of its epiphysis. 1. Separation of the upper epiphysis Up to eighteen months the femur is capped with cartilage representing the head and great trochanter; this is not known to have been torn off. Then the neck ossifies from the shaft, and separates a centre which appeared in the head in the first year from another in the great trochanter appearing in the fourth. These epiphyses join at eighteen to nineteen, and up to this age either may be detached. There is only one known case (M. 15, run over) in which sepai’ation of the epiphysis of the head was proved by post-mortem examination to have occurred (Fig. 273). Hutclrinson col- lected over twenty cases, and Battle gives four more, in which i to 1|- in. shortening, eversion, elevation of the trochanter and more or less crepitus were found in patients under twenty; but, as fracture of the neck of the femur occurs, though rarely, in children, clinical evidence cannot be accepted. Bony union seems to have occurred in all but one, in which pseudarthrosis resulted. 2. Fractures of tlie neck are rare in the first and second decennia, then increase rapidly until, from 50 to 90, they form an increasing majority of all fractures of the tlngli. Up to 50 they are said to be six times more common in men than in women ; after 50 they are 2J times more common in women. The fractures in earlier life and in male adults are generally situate at the base of the neck, whilst those in later life and in women occur genei'ally near the head. . The anatomy of the neck has such important bearings on t le injuries of the part, that a few words of reminder as to its structure will not be out of place. The neck ]uojects inwards from the shaft at an average angle of 125° in the adult—the extremes being 110 and 140°. The shorter the stature the lower the angle : hence it is less open in women than in men. ! here is no reason to suppose Fig. 273.—M. Bousaeaus c.oso of Separation of ° the Upper Epipliysis of the Femur; from a hoy of 15, who was run over by a cart. h. Head; n, neck; p, periosteum ; c, capsule.