INFLAMMATION. 66 of a low muttering character, the patient lying in bed in a semi- conscious condition. This type of fever \isually occurs in cases where the inflammation is very extensive, more especially whei’e we have the form spoken of as difi’use cellulitis; where it rapidly ends in gangrene; where certain serous membranes, such as the peritoneum, are the seat of the disease; or in certain cases of acute inflammation of the periosteum and bone. The cause of this inflammatory fever is no doubt due to the absorption of poisonous materials from the area of inflammation, and as in almost all cases where these general symptoms are present, the inflammation ends in suppuration or gangrene, these poisonous materials are most usually the products of the bacteria which are the exciting causes of the inflammation (page 18). Tr63itni61lt.—The treatment of acute inflammation resolves itself into local and general treatment. (a) Liocal treatment.—In treating a case of acute inflamma- tion, the first thing to be done is to ascertain, and if possible remove, the causes that are at work. If this can be done, the inflammatory process will at once come to an end, and very little further treatment will be required. I have already referred to the removable causes of inflammation, such as the presence of foreign bodies, the action of chemical substances, etc., and if these are known to be present and are accessible, they ought at once to be taken away. Practically, however, in almost all cases where we have the symptoms of acute inflammation which I have described, the active cause at work is the growth of micro-organisms in the tissues, and is, therefore, according to our present knowledge, irremovable, and all that we can do in the first instance in the way of treatment, is to attempt to render the growth of these organisms difficult, to minimise the effects they produce, and to modify any symptoms which are sources of danger or discomfort. The most obvious symptom to treat is the congestion of the part, and if we succeed in diminishing the congestion, we succeed also in diminishing the pain and the amount of exudation. The congestion of the part may be diminished in a variety of ways. In the first place, an essential in the treatment of an inflamed part is to elevate it so as to favour the return of blood to the heart and diminish the venous engorgement. The advantage of elevation of the part is at once evident from the patient’s sensations. If an inflamed part be allowed to hang down, the throbbing becomes very severe and the tissues feel as if they would burst; while if it be placed on a higher level than the heart, a sensation of relief is at once experienced. Another way of diminishing the congestion of the part is to reduce the rapidity of the heart’s action by giving aconite, one or two minims in two or three doses with about an hour’s interval between each, the patient being carefully watched ; the result is that With the dimin- ished frequency of the heart’s beat a diminished amount of blood is sent to the inflamed part in a given time. Again, by blood-letting one can diminish the local congestion.