741 SEFABATION OF EPIPEYSES. most commonly due to direct, of the epiphyses and spine to indirect The Y- and T-shaped fractures of the lower ends of the /Fi". 211) and humerus (Fig. 255) appear to arise from both direct and indirect Auolence; in some cases it is thought that the slaaft is driven downwards as a wedge, and splits the joint end into two pieces (indirect violence); in others (direct violence) that the patella or olecranon acts as a wedge, and starts the fracture by a fissure from the joint surface. _ ‘ Double fractures of bones—i.e. two distinct fractures, sepa- rated by a considerable piece of unbroken bone (Fig. 212) are rare ; they occur chiefly in the lower jaw, ribs, and long bones, and almost always from direct violence. Naturally, the difiiculty of keeping the fragments in position is exceptional. The passage from a comminuted fracture to a double fracture is ob- viously gradual. More than two distinct fractures in the length of one bone are very rare. §iinuitaiicoiis fractures of many bones in the same or different parts are com- mon. Espe- cially is this the case with bones of the same part, which are fre- quently ex- posed to the same idolence. In these in- juries the diagnosis is generally rendered easier ; the prognosis, as regards function of the part, and, in the case of the ribs, as regards life, more serious. Simultaneous fracture of several bones in different parts of the body results only from the most severe injuries, is often associated with lesion of important organs, and a very distinct mortality arises directly from shock. Should these dangers be escaped, the various fractures usually heal well. Traumatic separation of epiphyses.—Though not strictly fractures, the two injuries are closely allied, being due to similar violence, presenting similar signs, and requiring similar treatment; often, indeed, they are combined. Yet, as separations of epiphyses present certain clinical peculiarities, they must be specially treated of. They are no longer regarded as very I’are accidents ; but, owing to difficulties in diagnosis, we are unable to say more than that they are much less common than fractures. Epiphysial discs have been found in long bones as late as 30, Fig. 212.—A double Fracture of the Ulna. The upper fracture runs down and back from near the ceufa'e of the greater sigmoid notch, detaching the olecranon and subcutaneous surface. The second fracture, an inch lower, was comminuted. The upper fragment was fully extended by the triceps ; the middle fragment was drawn to the front of the humerus by the brachialis anticus, and the head of the radius accompanied it. (University College Museum, No. 205.)