575 VARICOSE VEINS. eKperieiices a sense of fulness, or an aching pam in the part, on standing or after long walking; this pain is quickly relieved by raisin" the limb. Deep varix may cause cramp-like pains as well as a sense of fulness and tension. The superficial enlarged veins are readily recognised; often their blue colour is visible, and their tortuous ouSine is plainly seen. By raising the part the large veins are emptied and are hardly visible or palpable; by depress- ing the part they become fuller. In large varices there is often an in^ulse on coughing felt as far down the limb as below the knee. In the skin the dilated veins show as blue lines arranged in a stellate manner and these may exist alone, or in combination with, and over, deeper varices. The great dilatations of veins forming venous cysts are recognised by occurring in the course of a vein, by their rounded outline, Lftness, and compressibility, and by their emptying and filling under the influence of position ; they are usually met with at the upper end of the internal saphena vein and have a distinct impulse on coughing, which sometimes leads to their being mistaken for hernia. Complications. 1. HsEB«oiTliage.—Varices may be wounded, may burst under the influence of strain or long-continued pressure, or may be opened by ulceration; in the majority of cases of so- called “ bursting of a vein,” the hasmorrhage is due to an ulcer having opened into it. When from any of these causes a varicose vein is opened, the loss of blood is very rapid; not only because the vein is enlarged and does not collapse, but chiefly because the valves being lost the blood flows both from above and below. If the patient con- tinues standing or sitting with the leg hanging down, many pints of blood may be lost, and death ensue in a short time. Happily, this serious haemorrhage is most easily controlled; the patient should imme- diately lie flat down and have the affected leg well raised : this will at once arrest the bleeding; a pad should then be Jflxed over the wounded vein by a bandage carried from the root of the toes to the knee. From ignorance of this simple treatment many a life has been lost, and many patients have been permanently crippled by incur- able antemia. 2. Thrombosis is a frequent and a serious complication of varices, much more often met with in the leg, thigh, and anus than in the spermatic veins. The coagulation of the blood may be due to its slow flow over the altered inner coat, or to mjury—and the mere prominence of varicose veins exposes them to injury; at the anus the enlarged veins are liable to be bruised by the passage of a large hard motion, or ovei’-distended by straining efforts. 3. Chronic eczema, is a frequent complication of varicose veins and, as already stated, it and (4) chronic induration and (5) chronic ulcer of the leg have been commonly regarded as resulting fi'om varix, and the terra varicose ulcer has been given to an ulcer in the middle of a patch of thickened adherent skin with varionse veins leading from it. The only way in which a varix certain^}' leads to an ulcer is when it “ bursts,” and primary healing of the wound is not obtained. The benefit to a chronic ulcer, often followina: