54 INFLAMMATION. in the early stage of inflammation. The first effect, the redness, shows that there is an increased amount of blood in the part, and that the blood-vessels are dilated; and the fact that the redness can be dis- pelled implies that this blood is circulating freely. The second effect, where the blood cannot be entirely dispelled by pressure, shows that in these parts the circulation is no longer going on, but has been arrested, this condition being known as inflammatory stasis. The third stage, where blisters have formed, implies that certain constituents of the blood have passed out and accumulated under the epidermis, thus forming a blister. Hence we see that in the early stages of inflammation changes take place, some of which have reference to the vessel walls and some to the vessel contents. By studying the changes which follow irritation in a transparent living membrane, such as the frog’s foot, one can see exactly what takes place. In the first instance, on the application of the irritant, one usually finds that the arteries commence to dilate, till, by-and-by, they may be as large, or even larger, than their ac- companying veins. It must be remarked, however, that in some cases, especially after the application of cer- tain chemical irritants, a preliminary period of con- traction precedes this dila- tation. In addition to this dilatation of the arteries— which affects more especi- ally the small arteries—it will be seen that the capillaries, and also to some extent the veins, become distended, while at the same time the blood is ciiculating through the part with increased rapidity. If, however, the condition be watched, it will be found that presently the circulation in these distended vessels becomes slower and slower, so that after a time one can see the individual corpuscles pa.ssing along the channels; and ultimately, at the part where the irritant has acted most severe!}^, the flow of blood becomes entirely arrested, and we have the condi- tion spoken of as inflavimatory stasis (Fig. 7)- p • i j The cxplanalioBB of liiesc i>hciioiaciia has been furnished by Sir Joseph Lister as the result of observations made a long tune ago on the behaviour of the pigment cells in a frog’s foot under the action of an irritant. On looking at the frog’s web, one sees not only blood-vessels, but also pigment cells, which are numerous m the skin, and are present also in the deeper tissues, more especially 7.—Section of Skin from Acute Traumatic “ Gangrene, sliowing stasis in all the blood- Ycssels wMch were gorged with, hlood, and in some places ruptured. There has also been a quantity of fluid poured out raising the epidermis (hullie), which has at this part been lost. There has been no time for cellular in- filtration of the tissues.