774 INJURIES OF BONES. by means of hooks, pins, sutures, or screws. This mode of treatment is most valuable, and should never be forgotten in cases of difficulty —cases of displacement, which cannot be dealt with by position and the use of apparatus, but which, if unrelieved, would perhaps become secondarily compound, or would recover with markedly im- paired function or even with disfigurement. There must be good reason for converting a simple into a compound fracture, for it cannot be done without risk; the risk may be very slight in the hands of those who rarely have a failure from sepsis—it is incal- culable in opposite circumstances, for not only the limb, but the life may be lost. The direct method of dealing with the fragments is adopted chiefly in fractures of bones which do not, as a rule, unite by bone; in cases in which a fragment is so displaced that it cannot be replaced, and will become a source of trouble; and in cases of very oblique fracture or comminuted fractures, in which other treatment has failed. It is a great advantage of this method that, once the wound has healed—sometimes even earlier—fixation can be abandoned in many cases, and the patient is able to use his muscles and joints. The results are often admirable, but sometimes, without failure of antiseptics, a joint which has been irritated by surgical manipulations becomes the seat of very troublesome adhesions. Treatment by massage.—It is a fact that, after treatment by prolonged immobilisation, patients recover with wasted and oedema- tous limbs, often with adhesions in joints and tendon sheaths which have been injured, and which have been the seat of extravasation; also, that the early swelling is the cause of a good deal of tensive pain. It is stated by Lucas-Championnifere and others that aU these ills may be avoided by the proper use of massage, which has been widely adopted in England for sprains, but does not seem to have been much employed for fractures until after they have united, when the above-mentioned results must be dealt with. According to the above authorities, splints are an evil and are to be used only when displacement would result from their omission; in many fractures less restrictive methods may with advantage be adopted. The teaching with us has always been that perfect fixation is necessary to perfect union—that mobility is the great cause of non-union. As we have seen, in fissures of the skull, perfect fixation leads to the formation of very little callus and possibly to imperfect union; whereas callus always forms richly about a fractured rib, and non- union of a rib is practically unknown. But there is a difference in degree between the mobility in this case and in that of an untr^ted fracture of a limb, which sometimes results in non-union. Again, it is undoubted that massage will widely diffuse extravasations and effusions, and promote their absorption, and that it increases the circulation and nutrition of the tissues of a part; in these circum- stances, callus production is asserted to be rapid and free. But, can massage be carried out without causing pain, excessive mobility, or displacement, which it is the object of splints to prevent 1 As to pain— the first point is to ascertain the seat of the strictly-localised fracture