MILITARY SURGERY. 246 rubbing of the limbs is of service. No operation should be undertaken, unless quite unavoidable, till the symptoms of shock have passed away. If, however, operation be inevitable, most surgeons advise that narcosis be avoided. The ti-cniUiicnt of the wound next claims our attention. As to the immediate duty of surgeons on the battle-field, everything that can ensure an aseptic course to the wound must be adopted. Nusr- baum has laid down that the fate of the wounded man lies in the hands of the surgeon who first attends him. AV^ounds accordingly should never be examined at the front either with fingers oi’ instruments, except in the case of wounds of the blood-vessels, or “in cases where the projectile has passed through one of the large cavities of the body, and, without wounding its contents, has remained in the wall of the cavity, then the removal of the ball is at once advisable, for fear that, if left, it might fall back into the cavity implicated. For surgeons at the front there is only one line of treatment—to occlude the wound provisionally, to lay the wounded part in a suit- able position on the litter, and to render it practically immovable ” (Feyher). Various forms of first field-dressing are therefore supplied to the men going into action. That used in the army in India consists of two pads of carbolised tow, enclosed in carbolised gauze with a few accessories. Sir Joseph Lister recommends dusting the wound with iodoform. The first field-dressing being applied, and the limb immobilised, the wounded man is then brought to the field hospital, where a thorough examination can be made. For an anti- septic solution wherewith to wash the wound Lister recommends one of corrosive sublimate. This substance being soluble in one-and-a-half times its weight of glycerine, one-fluid drachm of this solution will prepare a watery solution of corrosive sublimate (1 to 1,000) if added to four pints of water. Or a like solution may be made by adding ten grains of corrosive sublimate and fifty grains of tartaric acid to one pint of water. The first point to be determined now is the lodgment or otherwise of the bullet. Where there are wounds of aperture or exit, this is, of course, readily settled. Should only one wound be present, the bullet need not necessarily have lodged, for it may have rebounded after striking, as in skull wounds, or have been drawn out of the wound by the portion of clothing it had propelled before it. To determine the route the patient should, if possible, be placed in the position he was in when wounded. There is, however, a certain amount of dis- advantage attending this, for the bullet may become displaced by the necessary movement. In judging of the route it must be remem- bered that fascise, tendons, and bones can divert the missile. AA^ith regard to multiple wounds, instances are on record where one buUet has passed through both thighs, or where one projectile has divided on striking a bone. In certain cases immediate digital examination is superfluous, as in the simple “ seton ” wound of the soft parts, the lesion of an epi- physis without fracture, or where the small bones of the hands oi