INJURIES OF RONES. 738 >//' Oblique fractures of joint ends—especially of the lower ends of liumerus and femur—arise from indirect violence, driving the articular ends together, so that its maximum effect falls on one edge or half, which is thus split off (Fig. 292). The more oblique the fracture and the smoother its edges, the greater the tendency to displacement. The direction of the fracture largely controls the displacement, one surface serving as an inclined plane upon which the other naturally glides. A com- mon result of an oblique fracture is the formation of two fragments, each of which looks like the mouthpiece of a clarionet—this is the fracture en hec de Ji'iUe, and is specially fre- quent in the tibia (Fig. 314) and femur. The spiral fracture is a much rarer variety, and is seen chiefly in the lower half of the tibia (Fig. 207) and upper half of the femur (Fig. 208). A fissure winds round the shaft more or less obliquely, sometimes including six or eight inches between the point of starting and the point in the fissure which is vertically above it j these two points are connected by a practically ver- tical fissure. From one angle or the other, either the vertical or the spiral fissure is usually continued, often into a neighbouring joint. The long sharp points which result are very hable to pierce the skin and to cause serious injury to deeper parts. Bruns .states that a number of the recorded cases, though simple, have been brought to light by the occurrence of suppura- tion, gangrene, or other accident. Koch and Filehne, by applying torsion to fresh bones, showed that a spiral fracture could thus be produced with great con- stancy, the fissure ascending to the right or left according as the forceps holding the free end were carried to the right or left. (3) Longitudinal fractures are very rare in long bones, if the term be used to include only cases in which a bone ^ end to end by a fissure in or parallel to its median plane T e ^ are many instances in which the patella, and Kronlein tebral body and the sternum have been thus could find recorded only one case in which a long bone-—the was split from end to end by the kick of a horse. In h« after subsidence of early swelling, a longitudinal groove could be felt, and. Fig. 208.—A Spiral Fracture of tlie upper End of tUe right Femur. The spiral fissure runs from the point of the upper fragment (in the linea aspera) upwards and in- wards, winds up and out across the front of the hone (dotted line), and finally ascends al- most vertically to the middle of the upper edge of the great trochanter (not shown). The vertical fissure is shown, starting and ending at the same points. Se- condary fissures in its upper part cause comminu- tion; consequently the point of the lower fragment is where the dotted line ends. (University Museum, No. 263, a.) 1)1' College