538 IN.TUBTMS OF BL00B-VFS8ELR. Tlie force aiid rapidity with which blood flows from a wounded vessel depend upon the size of the vessel and its nearness to the heart, the size and direction of the wound in tlie vessel, and the force of the heart’s contractions. The complete division of a vessel tends to close it and arrest the haemorrhage: in the case of an artery by allowing its retraction and contraction, and in the case of a vein by its collapse. Internal hsemorrhage is of great importance, not only from the loss of blood from the circulation, and in many cases the great difficulty of arresting it, but also from the disastrous local etfects of the effusion of blood, pai’ticularly in the brain. This subject, so far as it is surgical, is dealt with in other chapters of this work, and here we need only refer to subcutaneous Itannorrhages, or hsemori-hages into the connective tissues of the body. When the infiltrated blood is in small quantity, filling out the potential cavities of the connective tissue, and not forming a distinct tumour, it is known as an extravasation or suggillation ; when it is massed into a distinct tumour, but without communication with an artery, it is a luematoma; and when the communication between the artery and the blood tumour persists, it is a traumatic aneurysm. {See page 629.) Primary hSBmorrhage is that which occurs as the direct and immediate result of a wound of a vessel. The term is employed exclusively in reference to bleeding from injury; Avhere disease, such as ulceration, opens up a vessel, the conditions from the first are those of secondary hsemorrhage. TSie principles of treatment of primary lisemorrliag^e. (a) Arterial.—If the hseraorrhage has been arrested by natural pro- cesses, the surgeon should not interfere, and should be careful not to displace any of the clots in the wounded vessels by careless handling of the wound—especially rubbing. There are two exceptions to this i-ule :—In the case of an artery divided in a wound, the distal end may not bleed at first; but yet it is desirable to seek for it, and secure it in a liirature or by torsion, lest it bleed when the anasto- motic circulation is established in full vigour. In a punctured wound of an artery, even when a clot has formed and stayed the jsemorrhage, the artery should be tied above and beloAv the puncture, ind the vessel divided between the two ligatures, to avoid the dangers specially connected with punctured wounds, viz. recun-ent and secondary haemorrhage and traumatic aneurysm. The second great principle of treatment of wounded arteries is to secure wounded vessels in situ; for this purpose the wound should be enlarged, if necessary, even when this involves much greater difficulty than would ligature of the main artery of the part on the cardiac side of the wound. This principle rests upon the following facts:—Until the bleeding point is actually exposed, it is often impossible to determine from what artery a given haemoirhage is occui’ring, and, therefore, if the main artery is tied on the cardiac eide of the wound, the bleeding may not be wasted, or the operntior)