vm MSIjOOATIONS. JTIorl>id uiiJitoiiiy*—Dislocations of the astragalus may be complete or incomplete, and are sometimes combined with fracture of the malleoli. Tlie neck of the bone may be broken, the head still retaining its position with the scaphoid (Fig. 426). The lateral, and strong calcaneo-astragaloid ligaments are more or less extensively torn, according to the completeness of the dislocation; and the tendons, vessels, and nerves are stretched, or even lacerated, ihe tendo Achillis and tibials draw up the calcaneum against the tibia in the complete dislocations, and the posterior tibial tendon may be partially hitched round the neck of the astragalus. The tension of these structures form the principal obstacles to reduction, ihe astragalo-scaphoid ligaments are always ruptured, unless fracture ot the neck of the bone occurs, which complication is common in the backward displacement. „ , ,. c «ivmntonis The possible varieties of dislocations of the astra^ .Talus being so numerous, many pages of the described concomitan symptoms might easily be compiled from the records of reported ^^^^The following rules for diagnosis will be found useful_ (11 In complete and compound dislocations the diagnops is iisu^y obvious, the contour and shape of the bone bemg distmctly felt or seen.^compiete dislocations the position of the bead of the astrao4lus is the main guide to a correct diagnosis, as its distance and rdation to the malleoU are altered, as compared to the soimd side. The head of the astragalus is always to be detected when disnlaced from the scaphoid forwards and outwards, or inwards. ^(3) In rotatory displacements pure and simple the diagnosis wiU be infLential and is only to be approximately made by the possibility of feeling the displaced articular surfaces in deep mampulation under anSetics. Thif is usually iinpossible, from he rapid -el^S- I" thp disnlacements forwards and outwards, or forwards and inwaras projection in front of the tibia the artio^ar end „f the lattS bone being sunk behind it, the malleoh nearly re^t in- the sole In the dislocation outwards and forwar(t the foot is the inner malleolus buried, wh^ galus and external malleolus project externally. Ihe reverse in tli6 forward and inward displacement. nmirmp 4) In dislocation backwards the displacement as btUards and out«aris. and the Hi i?S)T SHn te“wl ofae othef he ^*"^3 -t; Thf of tL astragahts - Tifel^