PHLEBITIS. 569 2. Siippui-ative pliicbilis—This form of the disease is some- times called “ spreading phlebitis,” but it is not a good name for it, as it does not always spread, and ■ spreading phlebitis, as we have seen, may be adhesive or plastic in nature. It has also been called thrombo- phlebitis, but this is too narrow a use of the term, for thrombosis and phlebitis are associated in other conditions. Causes. The cause of suppurative phlebitis is infection of the wall of a vein with pyogenic organisms, chiefly micrococci. The infective material may be in the circulating blood, as in cases of puerperal phlebitis remote from the uterus, or may reach the vein in the blood returning from a focus of suppuration, as a wound, “ acute necrosis,” “facial carbuncle,” or middle-ear disease. Infective in- flammation may spread co a vein from the surrounding tissues, or a portion of a broken-down infective thrombus may lodge in another vein and set up inflammation—embolism. The poison, theiefore, in some cases acts primarily upon the vein, setting up phlebitis, which excites thrombosis; and in others the poisoned blood coagulates within the vein—thrombosis—and the infection spreads thence to the vein, setting up inflammation. The disease occurs most often in connection with septic wounds, diffuse cellulitis, and “ acute necrosis,” and it plays an important part in most cases of septiciemia and pyiemia, as the poison of these disea.«es generally enters through the veins. In the secondary phlebitis of septiciemia, some local condition may be at work to determine the part attacked. A patient lately under the writer’s care illustrates this : a woman, who liad been confined a month before, w'as admitted to the hospital with suppurating phlebitis over the right shin, at the back of the right thigh, and in the two saphena veins in the right leg. The question arose, why the septic poison had attacked these particular veins only ? We learned that the inflammation immediately followed the patient’s going about after her confinement, and it appeared pro- bable that the slight venous engorgement caused by the change of posture, or varicosity of the veins, or possibly some long-standing de- generation of the veins, had been the predisposing or localising cause. Pathology.—The changes in the coats of the vein are those common to suppurative inflammation. The thrombus undergoes “ yellow softening,” and the products eventually blend with those of the disintegrated vessel itself. Septic micro-organisms are always found, both in the softened thrombus and in the inflamed vein. The infection spreads to the tissues around the vein, and in some cases large abscesses are thus formed. Very commonly, septic emboli pass into the blood stream from the softened thrombus, and each one becomes the starting-point of a “ secondary abscess.” Toxic products of the micro-organisms are also poured into the blood, or absorbed from the inflamed tissues ; and so septic plilebitis leads to septicemia and pyemia. The infective nature of this form of phlebitis imparts to it a tendency to spread along the vein in the direction of the current of blood, a tendency so marked that it gave rise to the name “spreading phlebitis.”