TUMOURS. 486 to merit the name of knots, but form occasionally tumours of some magnitude, and they may even excel in size the primary tumour. The characters, clinical and pathological, of particular species of carcinoma are considered in connection with the organs in which they ax’ise. Varieties.—It is necessary to mention here that the method of dividing cancer into three varieties — scirrhous, encephaloid (medullary), and colloid—is not only misleading, but has no structural basis. It is also important to bear in mind that many misconceptions have arisen from the circumstance that pathologists have been in the habit of interpreting the structure of cancers from plane sections, without in the least taking into consideration the relation of a given section to the entire tumour. Hence a scirrhous cancer was said to be composed of an alveolar meshwork of fibrous tissue, the alveoli enclosing epithelial cells. If, instead of drawing conclusions from one or two sections selected haphazard, a number of consecutive sections be taken, and a composite figure framed from them, it will at once become clear that the alveoli are sections of glandular ducts and acini filled with cells. This fact is admirably illustrated in the case of rectal cancer: sections from this kind of tumour may take the form of closely- packed cybnders, or of bays lined with epithelial cells encroaching on a bed of delicate connective-tissue. When the sections are ex- amined collectively, it will be found that the alveoli are sections of greatly-enlarged intestinal glands filled with cells and cut in various planes. What is true of the rectum holds good for cancer of other secreting glands. Cause.—Very little positive knowledge is available in regard to the cause of cancer. To-day the prevailing opinion among those best qualified to judge is that the disease depends on a micro-parasite, which in all probability flourishes in glandular epithebum. The micro-parasite does not belong to any of the known species of bacteria or micrococci, but recent researches tend to show that it probably belongs to those curious micro-organisms of which the common amoeba is the type. A.t present the evidence is barely more than hypothetical. _ • i i Although the active investigations carried on in bacteriological laboratories during the past few years have done but little to remove the cause of cancer from the domain of hypothesis, they have never- theless strengthened the view that in its earbest stages cancer is a local disease, and that prompt and complete removal whenever pos- sible is the most satisfactory method of rebef at present available. The wisest observers differ in opinion as to the heredity ot cancer. It certainly is not contagious. Every secreting gland is liable to become^ tlie seat ot can^r; nevertheless some glands are more prone to it than others, lor instance, the female mamma and the glands of the cervi^l canal of the uterus are so liable to cancer that many thousands of women die annually from this disease in these two situations in all cmliserl