■108 mJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. during life by its secondary effects—arterial obstruction, gangrene, aneurysm, or secondary hjiemorrhage. Thus, if a contusion be immediately followed by loss of pulsation in the artery at the place struck, division of its inner coats, at any rate, with thrombosis, may be inferred; and, if these symp- toms be delayed for some hours, the slighter degree of contusion with thrombosis may be diag- nosed. As a striking example, the following case recently in the wards of the Middlesex Hospital may be quoted. A man struck his right groin against the corner of a table; a very slight bruise was found by the house-surgeon exactly over the uj)per part of the common femoral artery. Strong pulsation could be felt in the iliac artery above this point, but it ceased abruptly at the seat of in- jury. Wlien he left the hospital, in three weeks’ time, pulsation had returned in the superficial femoral and tibial arteries, but the com- mon femoral was a firm pulseless cord. The exact limitation of the injury in this case to the con- tusion and permanent obliteration of a short length of the common femoral artery made the case a very striking and valuable one. The effect of this obstruction upon the parts supplied by the artery depends upon the vessel involved and the other injuries sustained; in the worst cases gangrene ensues in others the local anaemia is more A. Arury laid open, showing the coats intact; B, unniptured outer coat, very tliin^with a thin layer of clot{o) adherent to it; d, left common iliac artery, coats entire; e, right common iliac artery, plugged with the inner and middle coats of the aorta which have been detached and forced into the artery. this maybe attributed to the effects of contusion of the artery. If, again, secondary haemorrhage ensues upon a contusion, and the blood flows from a vessel which did not bleed at the time of the injury, it is to be regarded as due primarily to contusion of an artery. Subcutaneous ritpture of an artery is recognised by sudden pallor, coldness, and benumbing of the limb beyond the rupture, and by the ranid foi'ination of a tense swelling about tlie seat of rupture. or less rapidly recovered from. [See page 534.) If an aneurysm develop quickly after a blow upon an artery, and at the point struck.