801 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. which the arm is hung, is supported by muscles, whilst the inner is firmly bound to the sternum ; these points explain the deformity in fractures. Usually the bone breaks at its weakest point outside the middle at the meeting of the two curves, but it may give way in the outer or inner third. Symi>toiH!S« Aliddls tlixvd.—TV^hen the bone is completely broken in this region, the line of fracture is generally oblique, from without, backwards, and inwards (Fig. 233). The patient generally inclines the head towards the injury, and supports the elbow with the hand of the opposite side. The injured shoulder is lower than the Fig. 233.—A right Clavicle reimired after Fracture with some Comminution in the Middle Third; all the fragments are set iu a large oval mass of callus. The deformity due to falling hack of the outer fragment is unusual. Fig. 234.—A right Ciavicle repaired after Fracture outside the rhomboid Ligament: the outer fragment remains dispiaced forwards, inwards, and somewhat downwards. Fig. 235.—A left Clavicle repaired after Fracture just internal to the Ligaments ; the outer fragment is displaced downwards, fonvards, and inwards ; rotation was probably corrected by treatment. Fig. 236.—A right Clavicle repaired after Fracture between the Ligaments ; the outer fragment is still bent sharply forwards. (University College Museum, Nos. 180, 181, 182,183.) sound, is nearer the mid-line, and is rotated so that its outer surface looks more or less forwards. Often, especially when the fracture is at or internal to the middle, the skin is stretched over a bony prominence —the outer end of the inner fragment. Unless the amount of im- mediate swelling is unusual, some deformity is readily felt, and the usual signs of fracture are present. Measurement shows the injured clavicle to be shorter than its fellow—even by 1 to IJ inch; and, though it may not be felt, it will be clear in most cases that the outer fragment is lying with its inner end pointing inwards, back- wards, and upwards below the prominent outer end of the inner fragment, perhaps pushing it upwards and forwards; otherwise its prominence must be due to tension of the skin over it from dropping of the arm, for though contractions of the sterno-mastoid will raise it temporarily, it is doubtful if the muscle will keep it raised. If the fracture be transverse and the fragments locked, or incom- plete, the bone presents an angle backwards, and perhaps upwards, A A