ANEUEYSM. 622 Xlic (listn.1 ligature.—This is employed in two ways. Brasdor'a operation consists in tying the diseased artery beyond tlie aneurysm, so as to arrest entirely the circulation through and past the sac: e.g. ligature of the common carotid artery close to its bifurcation for aneurysm of the root of the artery (Fig. 181, a). Wardrop's operation is a modification of this, inasmuch as one or more of the branches coming ofi’ beyond the aneurysm are tied, but the whole stream through the aneurysmal artery is not stopped : tlius, in a case of innominate aneurysm, the common carotid and third part of the right subclavian arteries may be tied, still leaving the stream of blood passing from the innominate trunk into the branches of the first part of the subclavian artery (Fig. 181, b). The distal ligature resembles in its mode of action the plugging of an artery by an embolus washed out of an aneurysm. It succeeds in curing an aneurysm partly by the clotting spreading back from the seat of ligatux’e to the aneurysm, and partly by the lessened tension and stasis in the aneurysm caused by the diversion of the blood stream, allowing the natural tendency of the blood in the aneurysm to coagulate, to have full play. When the common carotid artery is tied near its bifurcation for an aneurysm lower down, not onlj' may the clot formed at the seat of ligature extend down along the artery as far as the aneurysm, but this clotting is favoured by the fact that such a diversion of the blood stream into the subclavian artery of the same side occurs, that the tension in the carotid is diminished. In Wardrop’s operation these influences are less powerful in their action, and it is therefore less frequently successful than in Brasdor’s. In some cases, after a temporary improvement, the sac has i-apidly enlarged after distal ligature, and the operation has appeared to do harm; suppurative inflammation around the sac may also occur. The distal ligature is never used where the proximal can be applied; it has beeix chiefly employed on the arteries of the neclc for aneurysm of the aorta and of the arteries at the root of the neck. When dealing with these special aneurysms we shall, have to discuss its value more in detail. 3. Excision of tlie aneiicysm.—This operation is called also the “ old ” operation for aneurysm, the “opei-ation of Antyllus,” and the method of “double ligature,” but the name we have chosen is the one that best describes it. It may be performed in two ways. The circulation in the part being controlled by a tourniquet, one method is for the surgeon to make a free incision down to the outer surface of the aneurysmal sac, and then carefully to separate all the structures from this sac, taking great pains not to injure veins and nerves. The artery or arteries attached to the sac are then carefully ligatured in turn ; when all are tied they are cut on the aneurysm side of the ligatures—or they may be tied with double ligatures and divided between, one by one—and the tumour is lifted away. By the other method, the sac is laid freely open, all blood and clot within it turned out, and each end of the artery entering it and any branches passing out from it are tied. Where possible, the fii’st metliod is