INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 548 often in tne neck and groin, any treatment is unavailing to save life; and many surgeons regard active efforts to stop the bleeding as uncalled-for and inexpedient if they give pain to the patient. In the groin success may be obtained by passing a large curved armed needle deeply beneath the artery and vein and ligaturing them en masse. (e) In the case of amputation at the shoulder joint or hip joint, where secondary hEemorrhage comes on when the stump is almost healed, it has been proposed to ligature the main artery higher up rather than cause severe shock and extensive wound surface by opening up the stump. Such a practice has been followed by success, but the ligature of the bleeding vessel at the seat of injury is the more satisfactory procedure, as already stated. (/) In some instances, when it is known what artery is bleeding, instead of opening up the original wound, and finding a healthy portion of vessel to tie above or below the leak in it, it is better to cut down on the artery through a fresh wound, and apply the ligature. This may not only be an easier means of reaching and of tying the vessel, but it may be safer, inasmuch as the second wound can be kept free from infection from the first. For example, in a case of amputation through the lower end of the femur with secondary haemorrhage, known to be from the popliteal artery, it is sound practice to tie the superficial femoral artery in Hunter’s canal. (^g) In certain cases where the ligature presents special difficulties —e.g. either tibial artery in the leg—firm compression of the part has been recommended; the pressure must be applied very evenly and cautiously, and should be left undisturbed for several days. When secondary haemorrhage occurs from an artery that has been tied in its continuity, careful compression of the artery where tied by a pad and bandage may be tried at the first occurrence of the bleeding; but if it is not wholly successful, valuable time must not be lost in readjusting the bandage, but a ligature should be put on above and below the bleeding point. If now we take the case of an artery tied in its continuity from which secondary liEBinorrhage recurs even after renewed ligature, there are at least two courses open to the surgeon. He may tie the main artery higher up, or he may amputate the limb. In the lower limb a double block in the main artery exposes the patient to so great a risk from gangrene that it should not be made. In the upper limb the conditions are taore favourable, and a second block in the arteries may not cause gangrene^ The main artery may, therefore, be ligatured higher up, and only when that has failed should amputation be resorted to. In the lower limb, where re- lio-ature of the artery at the same spot has failed, amputation is the only resource. The amputation may be at a spot immediately above the seat of ligature. The explanation of the success attending ampu- tation when ligature in continuity fails lies in the fact that removal of the limb greatly lessens thq function of the main artery, and this leads to contraction of the arterial trunk for some distance above— as high as the subclavian or iliac trunk—and to diminution of the