1130 DISEASES OF JOINTS. In the case of very young children this formal excision should not be done. The operation must be postponed until the limb has developed almost or entirely to its full extent, and can then be undertaken with the best prospects of a useful limb. N6Ura,lgia/ of tho olbow is not infrequently met with as a sequence of the inflammatory aflections of the part. Here it manifests itself in shooting pains, not always depending on movement, and unassociated with any evidence of active disease of the joint. It is most usually met with in debilitated neurotic individuals subject to neuralgic pains of other parts. The treatment consists in tonics and attention to the general health, with blisters or the application of the actual cautery to the painful spots. Later, rubefacients, such as tr. iodi, will be bene- flcial, and massage. The use of the joint should be encouraged. NeoplESmS Slbout th6 ©Ibow.—These are the usual new growths of bones and periosteum, and are mostly met with in young adults. Thus we meet with chondromata, osteomata, and the varieties of the sarcoma group aflfecting either the lower end of the humerus or the ends of the radius and ulna. Sometimes it is possible to remove them without sacrificing the joint, but, as a rule, the only safe treatment is amputation well above the disease. Cysts about the elbow are rare, but may be met with either as bursal enlargements, or as distensions of parts of the capsule of the joint. Their diagnosis is not a matter of much difficulty when their history and slow formation are taken into account. Their treatment consists in careful dissection of the cyst out of its bed and suture of the last portion, if it cannot be reached without sacrificing the joint. In many cases this will be sufficient here as in the neighbour- hood of other joints. Loose bodies in the elbow joint.—These are not very fre- quently met with. When present they have the same genei-al pathology, symptoms and treatment as described elsewhere (page 1070). Most frequently they spring from pendulous folds of synovial membrane, the result of chronic inflammation (Fig. 430). AFFECTIONS OF THE WRIST JOINTS. Simple synovitis.—In this, as in the other joints, the various forms of acute, subacute, and chronic synovitis, are met with; but for some reason, not easy to determine, are less common than in the larger joints. When met with they are usually the result of in- fection in the course of general septic intoxication of one kind or another, whether, for instance, it be in the course of a gonorrhoea or a typical pysemia. As the result of injury and over-use, pure and simple, these forms of synovitis are comparatively rare, probably owing to the fact that the great mobility of the hand enables it