5:30 INJUllIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. -By fcliis process, tlien, tlie artery is divided, and its ends are sealed over l)y a cicatrix. Experience shows that even willi aseptic liga- tures and aseptic wounds this process is attended with a certain risk of secondary haemorrhage; this becomes a very serious danger iii those arteries where the branches are large, and so placed that only a short length of artery inter- venes between them, and can be thus obliterated. In the physiological occlusion of arteries, such as occurs in the ductus arteriosus, and in pathological occlusion from the pressure of tumours or of contracting cicatrices, hmmorrhage never occurs; it is therefore evident that this danger is introduced by the method employed by surgeons. A study of the j)h.ysiological ‘process shows that it differs from the surgi- cal mainly in this ; that no injury is inflicted upon the arterial wall; none of its tis- sues are divided or strangled, but the endothelium under- goes great proliferation, this excites coagulation of the blood in the vessel, and the thrombus thus formed is replaced by con- nective tissue with certainty and safety. It has been shown that a ligature can be tied so as to occlude an artery without severing any of its coat.s, and that when it is thus tied a thrombus forms within it, and is replaced by a connective tissue scar in the artery. It is urged in favour of this mode of ligature that it is unattended with the risk of secondary haemorrhage inherent in any method which divides the coats of the artery, and that it is capable of safe application in situa- tions where the older form of ligature has been found to be inap- plicable—e.g. the in- nominate artery. Against this form of ligature is urged the difficulty of applying it with just the amount of force required to occlude the vessel, and yet not to lacerate its wall; if not tied tiglit enough, the vessel may become pervious again, and the same O o B. □ Fig. 153.—A, Transverse Section of first part of Subclavian when collapsed ; b, the same under a Pressure of 240 mm. of Hg; c, Transverse Section of coUapsed superficial Femoral .Artery ; n, the same Artery under the Pressure of 2-10 mm. Hg. (Ballance and Edmunds.) Fig. 152.—Drawings of longitudinal Sections of Human Arteries after Ligature with ICangOr- roo 1 endou. The upper artery is the super- ficial femoral artery; the lower is the third port of the subclavian artery, in this ease all the coats of the artery are severed and the thin sheath only remains. (Ballance and Edmunds.)