m EPITHELIOMA. but the adjoining tissue also, the surface epithelium will be found to dip into the underlying tissue in the form of long columns (Fig. 125). The parts around these cell-columns are infiltrated with adventitious cells; among and beyond these columns as well as within them, curious concentric bodies known as nests may be found. The cells composing these nests are arranged around two or more altered cells like the layers of an onion. The cell-columns are not enclosed by membrane, and some of the larger columns tend to branch and even fuse with adjacent columns, forming a network in the deeper tissues. It matters not whether the epithelioma grows on the lip, tongue, larynx, or edge of a scar, this peculiar disposition of cell-columns is observed, accompanied by cell-nests. The size of the columns and number of the nests vary in different cases, but the plan of invasion is the same in all. It is important to bear in mind that the three clinical varieties of epithelioma occur in most of the situations which are liable to this disease in addition to the lip, it has come under my notice in the tongue, anus, buccal aspect of the cheek, glans penis, vaginal surface of the uterine cervix, and at the edge of old scars. The non-recognition of these three manifestations of epithelioma has produced much confusion in surgical writings. For instance, the warty form has in many instances been described as epithelioma supervening on warts. Fig. 124.—Epithelioma arising in the Cioati ix of a Bum. (Museum, Middlesex Hospital.) CourS6.—The primary ulcers when left to themselves may extend and involve extensive tracts of tissue, or fungate and form huge granulating cauliflower-like growths. In either case the superficial parts are continually being cast off in a foul, foetid discharge containing sloughs of tissue, cellular detritus, and blood. Any vascular tLssue such as skin, muscle, and mucous membrane, is quickly infiltrated and destroyed; even bone is rapidly eroded and lemoved piecemeal. Cartilage resists invasion. I'his is seen in a striking way in those instances where the pinna is the .seat of