GYSTS. m viscera and to encroach on the thorax by displacing the diaphra^. In addition the contents of these sacs often consist of highly albuminous material, and should septic organisms gain access to it, either from without or in consequence of adventitious communi- cations with hollow viscera, especially intestine, suppuration with all its attendant evils will be the consequence. _ This change is expressed by slightly altering the name; thus a hydrometra becomes a pyometra, and a hydrocholecyst become.s a pyocliolecyst, and so on. It must be remembered that a dilated renal pelvis, or an abnormally lai-ge gall-bladder, or a distended Fallopian tube, may liave contained pus from the outset of the trouble. 2. Tublllo-cysts.—This genus includes cysts arising in function- less ducts. These ducts belong to structures which were useful to the 0i^Ijj»yQ 6.y. the vitello-intestinal duct and the urachus. Others, hke the parovarium and Gartner’s duct, are serviceable in the male, but, so far as we know, useless in the female. Functionless ducts must not be confounded with obsolete canals. (^See page 490.) This genus contains six species :—Cysts of the vitello-intestinal duct, allantoic (urachus) cysts, cysts of the paroophoron, cysts of the parovarium, cystic disease (adenoma) of the testis, cysts of Gartner s duct. 3. Hydroceles.—These consist of excessive accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal diverticula which accompany the descent of the testis in the male, the round ligament of the uterus in the female, hernial sacs, and the occasional ovarian pouch. There are four species:—hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, hydrocele of the canal of Nuck, hydrocele of hernial sacs, hydrocele of ovarian sac. 4. Gland cysts.—This genus includes cysts arising in connec- tion with the salivary glands, and those of similar construction, such as the lachrymal and pancreatic glands. Thus it comprises those to which the term ranula is often applied, and dacryops. There is a strong tendency to restrict the term ranula to cystic dilatation of the ducts of the three sets of salivary glands, and to designate them as submaxillary, sublingual, and parotid ranulje. If surgeons would use the term in this definite sense, much unnecessary discussion would be saved. In the majority of cases ranulse ai-e probably retention cysts due to obstruction of a duct. They are common in connection with the submaxillary and sublingual glands. The cysts are, as a rule, thin-walled, and lie in the furrow between the gum and the tongue, and bulge upwards into the floor of the mouth. When large they cause a prominence in the submaxillary triangle. The cyst may be filled with saliva. Sometimes it contains mucus and a yellow substance resembling the yolk of an egg. Occasionally the obstruction is caused by a calculus impacted in the orifice of the duct, but cases come under observation in which tlie duct is not completely obstructed, yet the fluid is retained. It is reasonable to believe that ranulce sometimes arise independently of