1078 DISEASES OF JOINTS. necessary to consider now how it can be best applied to tlie hip joint. Rest, which is the great desideratum, is best carried out in this case by confinement to bed, and extension of the limb by weight and pulley. The latter may be attached to the leg, either by means of a well-padded leather collar or, better still, by sti-ipsof plaster running from the knee to the ankle. This distidbutes the strain over the whole leg, and is less likely to be followed by pressure ulcers, etc. The action of continuous extension is to tire out the muscles and steady the limb, and under its influence the flexed and abducted thigh may often be brought into a straight line in a day or two. But it ought to be continued for a much longer time, as a rule, otherwise the old position will he soon resumed. If for any special reason it be considered undesirable to confine such a patient to bed for longer, the weight extension may be replaced by a Thomas’s splint, single or double. The latter (Fig. 450) is to be preferred, as giving much more thorough fixation to the joint, and correcting the flexion and abduction much more efficiently. In such a splint a child can be carried about without any disturbance of the limb, and may enjoy all the benefits of fresh air and change. It is also much easier to provide for all the exigencies of defsecation and micturition with such an appliance than with any other known to me. No attempt forcibly to bring down the limb to a straight line at once under chloroform should ever be made, as the strain on the inflamed parts thus brought about is only productive of evil; it should be scradually straightened. Local depletion with leeches, and the use of hot fomentations can also be carried out in such early simple cases with much advantage. And it should always be borne in mind that in unhealthy children, and adults any attack of simple synovitis, if neglected, is apt to be followed by the tubercular form of disease. In all debilitated individuals, therefore, the constitutional condition should be as carefully attended to as the local. Tonics, cod-liver oil, and good food should be freely given, and every means taken to render the hyo'ienic sui’roundings of the patient as perfect as possible. ° And when all pain and swelling in the joint have passed ofi", great caution should be used in overcoming the resulting stiffness, lest the inflammatory condition be lighted up again by too early active movement. This should be preceded by massage and gentle passive motion for some time before the patient is allowed to make use of the limb. Simple subacute synovitis of the hip is often met with as the result of the same influences that have produced the acute form. The symptoms are precisely the same, but less marked; and the treatment is also the same. Acute septic synovitis of the hip is by no means uncommon as the result of one or other form of pyjemia. The latter condition is met with, as already stated, after absorption from foul wound-s either on the external surface of the body or on some of its internal