425 INHERITED SYFHILIS. Craniotabes is often met with in infants the subject of inherited syphilis, but not in them alone; the mal-nutrition associated wUh rickets is quite as important a factor in its production. (See page 367.) Periostitis and epiphysitis.—It is particularly at the growing ends of the long bones that inherited syphilis is prone to cause inflammatory lesions. The disk of cartilage between the epiphysis and shaft, and still more the delicate spongy bone immediately above this, become inflamed, and in a few cases actual suppuration may ensue. Commonly, the afl'ection is recognised only by thickening and tenderness about the joint end of the bone involved, though the epiphysis may become loosened. If, for instance, the upper end of the humerus be afiected, the arm will aj>pear to be powerless, and the term pseudo-paralysis is applied to this condition j careful examination will, perhaps, prove that the epiphysis is partially detached, becoming fixed again under mercurial treatment. If several long bones are thus afiected, the prognosis is undoubtedly grave, though recovery is the rule. Complete arrest of growth is very rare. Deposit of new bone around the adjacent pai’t of the shaft goes with the epiphysitis, and true bony nodes may form^ away from the joint ends. In the case of the skull, the new deposit will be formed at the farthest part of the bone from its central nucleus; thus are produced eminences around the anterior fontanelle on the parietal and frontal bones (the so-called Parrot’s nodes). The chief bones afiected are the humerus, tibia, radius, and ulna, and the flat bones of the skull. The scapulae, ribs, and iliac bones are rarely involved, the femur not uncommonly. Those of the hand and foot and the vertebrae seem curiously exempt. It will be noted that considerable resemblance exists between the bone lesions due to congenital syphilis and those caused by rickets; the latter, however, occur usually at a later period (generally during the second year or towards the end of the first), and are less truly inflammatory in their nature (suppuration and caries being never due to rickets alone). The characteristic beading of the ribs and the night-sweats of rickets are not seen in congenitally syphilitic children, unless the two diatheses are combined. 4. Affections of the viscera.—In a large proportion of syphilitic infants born dead, or dying in the first year or so, the liver, spleen, and sometimes the lungs, are found to be extensively diseased. A diffuse infiltration with small cells is the usual lesion present, though occasionally isolated gummata occur. Both liver and spleen can often be felt to be enlarged in the living subject, and here again there is a strong resemblance to rickets. Amyloid degeneration may be found on post-mortem examination. The lymphatic glands are more rarely affected, but a careful search may demonstrate their enlargement. 6. Diseases of the eyes, nervous system, etc.—The most characteristic inherited syphilitic lesion of the eye—interstitial keratitis—does not develop in infancy, but usually in late childhood or about puberty. The earliest age at which it has been met with is 0*