956 DISLOCATIONS. with a sudden snap, audible frequently to the surgeon. The bone.s usually remain permanently in apposition, the deformity not return- ing. Finally, the head of a long bone may be felt moving out of its socket on rotating its shaft, and the axis of the limb will be altered in a corresponding manner to the position of the displaced head. The detection of the head of the bone in an abnormal position is, of cour.se, a quite indubitable sign of dislocation. Anaesthetics are frequently indispensable in making a diagnosis, and examination should always be carried out before swelling has occurred. If the case is not seen for some days, great swelling and extravasation of blood, especially in patients with large muscles or much subcutaneous fat, may render the diagnosis impossible, even by the most experienced surgeons. In these perplexing cases no definite opinion should be given, unless the surgeon be absolutely certain of his grounds. It is of the utmost importance in all dubious cases, that both limbs be examined and compared in various postures of the trunk, For instance, in suspected dislocation of the hip the patient should be examined standing up, as well as lying down. In examining for dislocation of the shoulder, the patient should stand up, sit down, and be inspected from both before and behind. General treatment of dislocations.—If a patient be seen im- mediately on the occurrence of a dislocation, while still faint and col- lapsed, the surgeon is frequently able to restore the bone to its place with ease. When some hours or days have elapsed in the case of a muscular adult, full ansesthesia is always advisable. I believe ether to be the best and safest anaesthetic for the complete muscular relaxation requisite. Care should be taken to study each case ] and the ])rinciples of manipulation have for their foundation, relaxa- tion of muscles and ligaments by flexion or rotation, and the making the head of the bone retrace its steps through the torn tissues. In no case is extension with great force to be employed, unless Avith attention to this principle. For instance: it would be wrong to pull strongly upon a dislocated hip in extension, but considerable force may be exercised upon the femur when the thigh is flexed upon the belly. In old dislocations it must be remem- bered that considerable risks attend violent efforts at reduction, whereas these cases, even if left alone, recover with useful limbs in tbne. The open method, that of cutting down upon old dislocations, dividing opposing structures, and returning the head of the bone to its place, or excising the head of the bone altogether, has been very successful; and if carefully performed, is devoid of the risks attend- ing upon violent efforts at reduction, which are associated with further laceration, perhaps of important structures. These vexed questions of treatment have especially to be consider^ with reference to the hip and shoulder, in which connection they will again be dealt with. Importance of coiisi«lcring conslitnlioiial peculiari- ties in joint injuries.—It is a practical rule of utility to study