938 DISEASES OF THE JAWS. common mucous polypus of the nose. When very numerous, they expand the body of the bone and produce great disfigurement. The second variety of myxoma springs from the infra-orbital nerve and invades the antrum. Its chief clinical feature is agonising pain. Such a tumour is scarcely likely to be diagnosed until it begins to expand the surrounding bone. Sai’coiBiata.—These are of the I’ound or the spindle-celled species, and arise from the muco-periosteum of the antrum. Their growth leads to expansion of this cavity, and enlargement of the maxilla, causing it to encroach on the nasal fossa and obstruct respiration. Very often an antral tumour pushes up the orbital plate and displaces the eyeball (proptosis) and in a certain proportion of cases the alveolar border is depressed. The nasal duct is fre- quently implicated, and when completely obstructed epiphora is the consequence. Clinically, a sarcoma originating within the antrum behaves like a central tumour of a long bone, and by degrees processes of the tumour make their way through the thin walls and implicate the skin of the cheek, or, projecting into the nasal fossa, ulcerate, and give rise to frequently recurring haemorrhage. When an outrunner of the tumour makes its way through the posterior wall of the antrum it will enter the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary fossae, and creep thence into the temporal fossa, or make its way through the spheno-maxillary fissure and ramify in the orbit, or steal through the sphenoidal fissure or foramen rotundum into the middle fossa of the cranium. Epitlielioma.—In the majority of cases of epithelioma of the antrum the disease begins in the gingival mucous membrane, often in the socket of a tooth, and early invades the antrum. There is, however, a rare disease to which this cavity is liable, named by Reclus “ epithelioma terdbrant,” usually rendered in English as “ boring epithelioma.” It is quite open to question whether the disease is epithelioma, but it is certainly an excessively malignant and ex- tremely insidious disease. It commonly attacks patients past middle life. They complain of pain in the jaw, for which no adequate cause can be assigned. Gradually a slight fulness is observed in the infra-orbital region, with, perhaps, oedema of the eyelid ; the skin becomes brawny, and at last an epitheliomatous ulcer appears in the skin of the cheek, and the antrum is then found to be filled with a tumour. When such a case is submitted to operation, and the skin of the cheek reflected, the extensive inroads the disease has been silently making on the surrounding parts will be seen to be truly extraordinary. T le greater part of the maxilla will be found destroyed, and out- runners from the growth will be found in the orbit and among the pterygoid muscles. The skin of the cheek is usually so infiltrated that it must be removed. The successful treatment of such cas^ demands much boldness on the part of the operator, as he will hud it necessary to sacrifice the eye and the orbital contents, the palatine aspect of the maxilla, and a portion of the skin covering the cheek ;