221 TREATMENT. without any risk of involuntarily transferring septic material to the wound itself. As a matter of fact, it is not necessary to wash the wound, and, above all things, it is not necessary to inject antiseptic solutions into it, if, indeed, a cavity were present into which one could iniect: and therefore, after having washed the skin around, one may uncover the wound, cut the stitches, possibly wipe the neighbourhood of the stitches with a little lotion, and then re-apply the dressing as before. . p , i r, t Of course, while one is in this way arranging for the absence ot sepsis from the wound, one must also attend to the other details of wound treatment, more especially to securing mechanical rest to the part • and in the case of the extremities this is best done by placing the limb on a splint after the operation. In the case of operations about the neck, for example, the large masses of wool and dressing which are applied generally act in the first instance as a thoroughly efficient splint. t. u r A.S regards the gcTi&ircil tTBCLtvfi&Tit also, the patient snoulcl tor a day or so,°till he has recovered from the effects of the anaesthetic, be kept on slops; but in two or three days—if the wound be following an aseptic course—he should be allowed generous diet, and, in fact, he may be permitted to take his ordinary food. As a rule, about the end of the second day it is well to administer an aperient Stimulants are not necessary, unless in cases where a very extensive wound has been made, and where there is consequently exhaustion of the patient from loss of blood and shock. In Germany, more especially, it is becoming the fashion at the present time to avoid entirely the use of antiseptics in contact with the wound, and there, after thorough disinfection of the skin and of the instruments (the latter by boiling), no further antiseptic is employed; and the dressings which are applied are composed of materials which have been sterilised by heat, and which do not contain any antiseptic substances. Theoretically, such a method is an ideal one, and practically it can be carried out in certain circumstances by persons who have had large experience in bacterio- logical work; but in ordinary practice the difiiculties in the way of securing asepsis of the wound in these circumstances are so great that the surgeon cannot have any certainty as to his results. The precautions needed to prevent the entrance and action of micro- organisms are so irksome that it is practically impossible to carry them out satisfactorily, more especially where one is dealing with an operation which requires the exercise of much skill or thought. In my opinion, it is much better to use antiseptics which, although they no doubt irritate the wound to some slight extent, correct involuntary mistakes on the part of the surgeon, and thus add a much greater amount of certainty to the results. Such being the view which I take of this plan of treatment, I need not enter into any details with regard to it. The method which I have described will secure union by first intention practically in all cases, unless some error has crept in during the operation.