ANEURYSM. 654 rai’e below the axilla, except those at the bend of the elbow, clue to traumatism. Not only are the majority of such aneurysms trau- matic in origin, but there is no other part of the body where so many traumatic aneurysms have been met witli. Nearly all the spontaneous aneurysms are associated with cardiac disease and embolism. At the bend of the elbow an aneurysm generally grows upwards along tlae brachial vessels, being limited by the biceps on the outer side, and by the internal intermuscular system internally; it may extend as a flattened sac under the biceps. Symptoms*—Owing to the proximity of the median nerve, pain is often felt along the palmar surface of the thumb, forefinger, middle finger, and the outer side of the ring finger. If the aneu- rysm attains a great size, the flexor and pronator muscles of the fore-arm may be paralysed. The anastomotic circulation is so free in the upper limb that it imperils the success of the ligature, owing to the rapidity and freedom with which blood returns to the sac; it also renders the danger of secondary hsemorrhage greater than in the leg, while the danger of gangrene is much less. Excision of the aneurysm is therefore more widely practised here than elsewhere. Treatment.—Aneiorysms at the elbow, whether traumatic or spontaneous, should first of all be treated with compression of the artery above the tumour; if that fails to cure, the choice lies between the Hunterian ligature and excision of the sac; owing to the superficial position of the artery, and the ease with which we can control all the vessels of the upper limb by a tourniquet, excision of the aneurysm is often to be preferred. ^ Vavicose aneuTysm at the elbow may be treated with Esmarch s bandage, and if that fails, by laying open the sac and carefully tying every vessel opening into it. The only treatment necessary for an aneurysmal vojrix is some form of external support, sucli as an elastic armlet. , j A'ueurysms of the fore-arm are to be treated first by direct and indirect compression; full flexion of the elbow is the best means of compressing the brachial trunk. Esmarch s bandage may also e employed. If these means fail, when the aneurysm is deep beneath the flexors of the fore-arm the brachial artery should be tied low down in the arm ; but when the aneurysm is superficial in the lower half of the fore-arm it should be carefully excised. Aneurysms of the hand are not common. Compression oi the radial and ulnar arteries at the wrist, or of the brachial artery by acute flexion of the elbow, together with direct pressure over the sac, should first be tried. When that fails, excision of the aneurysm, or the Hunterian ligature, must be performed. A few years ago the writer had a case of traumatic aneurysm of the radial artery immediately before its entry into the palm ; it was successfully dealt with by excision of the sac and double ligature of the radia artery. Eor aneurysms deep in the palm, ligature of the brachial artery is the best treatment. Small traumatic aneurysms of the digital arteries are sometimes met with ; they should be excised.