232 WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. do not usually penetrate below the skin, keeping where they affect the skin itself to the surface of the dermis, leaving the papillary layer intact. As regards the treatment, the condition is an excessively difficult one to get rid of. At first sight one is often tempted to cut out these cheloid scars j but as a rule the condition is simply reproduced in the scar so formed, and not only along the line of incision, but also in the stitch tracts, and the resulting deformity may be equally bad with the original. ^ Nevertheless, I think that in some cases where one has to do with a large broad cheloid, and where it is possible to bring the edges of the skin together, one may very much improve matters, even although one does substitute a linear cheloid scar for the original mass and if an attempt be made to dissect out the cheloid with the view of getting a linear cicatrix, one should avoid the use of stitches altogether unless there is great tension on the parts. The edges of the skin may be approximated by bm-ied stitches as desci’ibed under wound treatment, and the approximation completed by the use of strips of gauze fixed with collodion which bring the actual epidermic surfaces into contact (page 219). Where, however, it is not desirable to dissect out the cheloid scar, the essential point in the treatment is to interfere with the blood supplied to the part, and this is done by employing pressure in various ways. In some cases improvement is obtained by painting the surface of the cheloid with ordinary collodion. As the collodion dries it contracts and compresses the parts beneath. The disadvantage is that in some cases it leads to ulceration. Various plasters have also been applied with the view of causing pressure, and formerly attempts were made to destroy the cheloid by means of scarifications or by the use of the actual cautery; but as a rule, these attempts have been given up. At the same time, the use of cod-liver oil internally seems to be of considerable disadvantage. CONTUSIONS. Effects.—By contusion one means the result of a severe blow on the soft parts without a breach of the surface. The effect of the blow is to bruise and tear the cellular and muscular tissues, and very probably the skin itself, leading to haemorrhage into the torn parts. Where the skin is unbroken, and the patient is healthy, this deep-seated wound generally recovers without any suppuration or other trouble, healing occurring by blood clot just as in the open wound; but in some cases the contusion of the skin is so severe as to lead to its ultimate sloughing, and in that instance, if the part which has been contused has not been rendered aseptic pi’e%’iously, we may have a suppurating wound with the separation of sloughs of cellular and muscular tissue, Avhich may be a long time in healing, and which may even be a considerable source of danger to the patient. In some cases the blood Avhich is poured out into the cellular tissue after a contusion is lai’ge in amount, and leads to the formation of a distinct tumour (Jusmatoma). This