DIAGNOSIS OF INJURIES OF THE SHOULDER. 815 The chief injuries to be considered are—the inward dislocations of the humerus; fractures of the glenoid fossa and surgical neck of the scapula; and fractures of the anatomical and surgical necks of the humerus (including separation of the upper epiphysis) without and with dislocation. The first point is to ascertain the position of the head ; if it be in the socket, the shoulder is rounded, the fingers cannot be pressed beneath the acromion, and they feel the smooth rounded head when they grasp the shoulder from before back. But the head is dislocated if the shoulder be flat, the deltoid tense, and the fingers meet no re- sistance other than that of muscles in pressing towards the glenoid fossa j if the deformity cannot be removed without some difficulty, but, when removed, does not easily recur. If, while the head has escaped, the end of the shaft has risen up beneath the acromion, the signs last given will be less marked, and the shape and irregularity of the shaft will be helpful. If the head be out of the socket, and there is no fracture, the shaft may be regarded as a pointer to it; it swings upon the deltoid insertion and the elbow points the more back and out the farther the head goes up and in. So the eye often enables us to lay a hand on the head. If it cannot be felt at once, gentle rotation of the shaft is practised, and the movement thus communicated to the head makes its situation evident. But if, iir a case which looks like a dislocation, with some shortening and some projection of the elbow, we get crepitus in performing rotation; if we feel tliat the rotating end is sharp, irregular, and causes pain 3 and if, elsewhere in the axilla, we feel the mass of the head and tuberosities, not mo^dng wdth the shaft, but grating against it occasionally, we have a fracture of the sui'gical neck and a dislocation of the head. If the arm hang by the side, yet the signs of emptiness of the glenoid fossa are evident, though in a less striking degree, if a small hemisplierical mass be felt free in the axilla, while rotation of the shaft is excessive in degree, and the finger detects absence of the head from its place, w'e have to do with a fracture of the anatomical neck with dislocation of the head. If the head be in its socket, we grasp it and rotate the shaft; if they more together and witliout crepitus, eitlier there is no fracture between them, or it is firmly impacted, in which latter case the deformity present, and any irregularity of the bone discovered, must be considered. If there be no abnormal mobility between the head and shaft, and yet crepitus occurs, this must indicate either fracture of a process of the humerus or of a bit of the head, or a fracture of the scapula. Touch will give some idea as to the seat of crepitus. If superficial, the region of the great tuberosity must be examined. With deep crepitus the scapula is probably its seat. In both the fractures in our list, simply raising the elbow removes the displacement with crepitus, and it recurs at once on removal of the support. In fracture of the surgical neck, the coracoid moves with the fragment 3 in fractures of the glenoid fossa it does not.