TREATMENT OF OOMPOUND FRACTURES. 777 skin, or skin only, may necessitate amputation ; but the success of extensive grafting operations must here be borne in mind. Two or more of the above conditions may be combined, the need for primaiy amputation being proportionately increased. Clear evidence of infection is always an important element in the decision. Conservative measures.—If conservative treatment be decided upon, it is to be carried out somewhat as follows :— Disinfection.—Immediately it is found that the limb is fractured at a certain point, and that a wound, possibly communi- cating with the fracture, is present, the wound is weU douched with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion or other reliable antiseptic, and covered with a thick “ guai’d ” steeped in the same, and fixed by a turn or two of bandage. The splints which may be required, and the other things mentioned below, are got ready. The clothes are entirely removed from the injured limb, which is laid upon a mackintosh and towel wet with 1 in 40 carbolic lotion. The limb is thoroughly washed with a piece of gauze, soap, and hot 1 in 40 lotion, up and down from the guard; when the rest of the limb is clean, the guard may be replaced by one covering the wound only, and the washing carried out as far as is possible without washing anything into the wound. It is well then to shave a good area from the wound, and j&nally to sponge the limb -with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion. The clean Hmb is now laid on another mackintosh and wet towel, and the wound is subjected to further dis- infection, which must be thorough in proportion as the risk of infection —eAudenced by time which has elapsed since the injury, presence of dirt and clothes in the wound, history of fingering of the wound, etc. —has been great. When a fracture of the tibia has been rendered compound by an endeavour to stand, and the point of the upper fragment has protruded through the skin, and has remained plugging the wound till the patient is seen, the chance of infection is slight, and a careful cleansing of the fragment and skin around with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion Avill probably be sufficient, without interfering with the depths of the wound; the fracture being reduced only after the point of the upper fragment has been cleansed. But when there is reason to fear infection of the depths of the wound, surgeons endea- vour, by the introduction of antiseptic solutions into the cavity, to destroy any germs which may exist witliin it, and there can be little doubt but that it is the correct practice. For, although it appeal’s to be true that organisms are absorbed with great rapidity from the surface of a recent wound, and that disinfection of a Avound even immediately after its inoculation with a lethal organism Avill often fail to save the life of an animal, yet it is certain that pyogenic and septic organisms do not excite suppuration and putrefaction in a wound unless they remain in it enveloped in clot, etc. Probably suppuration is frequently prevented by the absorption and destruc- tion by the tissues, or the elimination of germs falling into a Avound. Accordingly, all obvious foreign bodies and dirt, blood and clot, should be removed from the Avound, which is enlarged sufficiently to permit exploration of its recesses; for sepsis, with all its dangers,