325 HYDATID CYSTS. 1 tlivpe to five days is allowed for the development of an mteiwal of th e creneral serous cavity. On the fourth to adhesmns, be uncovered and the cyst freely the si^th day t sufficient adhesion has been determmed. ^ 1 pJnn of the true cyst waU to the adventitious capsule generally ffifo v the 0 separated, either by imgation or in le m^niVtion. A drainage-tube is inserted, and kept in for from fXeigbt hours to a few days. Recent progress m aseptic Siods aUows the whole operation to be done in one stage, the cyst bein" sutured to the parietal serous layer and skin, if necessary, ai ei slacking' of the tense cyst by puncture with a very fine trocar. This oflfers some advantage with regard to time, but is less safe and in ordinarv cases not to be recommended. , . In Lses of sub-phrenic hydatids, or hydatid cyst of the upper surface of the fiver, it may be necessary to reach the tumour through the thorax. When suppuration has occurred, it is not rare to find the lower part of the pleural cavity obliterated, and m this case, after rTartial resection of a rib to get sufficient room, the cyst may be at once evacuated. If this be not the case, the parietal pleura of the lateral waU and that of the diaphragm must be umted with sutures and the diaphragm incised, and the operation completed m a subse- quent second stage, as already described. In the case of large ’^ceral or subperitoneal hydatids, it is weU to bear in mmd that it is not always possible to extirpate the cyst waU completely, and that in such a long and very chronic fistula may persist for some tune, in fact in such cases prolonged suppuration may give rise to lardaceous disease of the viscera. In some cases of hepatic, and in renal hyda- tids, the sac may be reached from the lumbar region without injury to the peritoneum. Mention should also be made of Landau’s method of so suturing the fiver to an abdominal wound as to bring the cyst into view, in cases of afiPection of the upper or posterior surfaces. Pedunculated hydatids should be removed entire. When mul- tiple, the cases are often beyond surgical treatment; two or three are best treated by successive operation; when more numerous the dangerous alternative of puncture is all that remains. The suigeon may occasionally be called to a case in which rupture of a cyst into the peritoneal cavity has occurred; such information as exists^ on this subject is decidedly in favour of incision, irrigation with sterilised water, and drainage. Mention must be made of the time-honoured treatment by puncture in order to emphasise its dangers. It should never be resorted to except as a preliminary to incision, and here only when in doubt. Although many cases of apparent cure are on record, yet the occur- rence in favourable cases of hydatid urticaria, in others of death from acute poisoning, or from flooding of an organ such as the lung, and the possibility of causing spread of the disease by infection of a serous cavity (Volkmann), absolutely contra-indicate it as a normal method of treatment.