DTSEASUS OF BONEii. 912 enormous cartilaginous tumours would at the present time be classified as chondrifying sarcomata; and the possibility of tliis being the case in any large chondroma should be borne in mind l(y the surgeon in charge of the patient. Age.—The multiple tumours of the hands first make their ap- pearance in children, about puberty, or in the young adult, and increase slowly in size for some years, and then remain stationary. The large single chondroma arises much later in life, and con- tinues, as a rule, indefinitely to increase as long as the patient lives, but without any ulterior consequence except that of inconvenience: Diag'iiosis*—A cartilaginous tumour is globular in outline, with a slightly lobulated surface. Its consistence is dense, but elastic, and may in parts suggest the presence of fluid beneath. There is no infiltration of the surrounding tissues, the skin and muscles moving freely over the tumour. It merely pushes aside the over- lying and adjacent structures, without invading them in its growth. As a general rule, it is perfectly painless, unless some nerve be accidentally stretched or pressed upon. It is inconvenient from its weight and size, and may impair the function of the part involved. But beyond this it has no influence on the duration of life. It is exceedingly slow in its progress, taking many years in attaining any great size. If, on the other hand, a tumour which is thought from its consistence to be cartilaginous, should be more rapid in its growth, some doubt may be entertained as to the possibility of its being a chondrifying sarcoma. The rate of increase is, therefore, the crucial point in diagnosis between a pure chondroma and a chondrifying sarcoma. The chondromata of the hand, as a rule, give rise to little difficulty in diagnosis. The age of the patient, the particular bones affected, their endosteal origin with plates of bone on the outer surface, their slow growth and freedom from pain and tenderness, make the diagnosis tolerably easy. Tubercular dactylitis, with which at some stages it might be confused, is tender on pressure and accompanied by some inflammatory infiltration; and in the end it softens and discharges, and generally results in a shortened or stunted bone. Syphilitic dactylitis produces a unifonn enlarge- ment of the whole bone, with little or no tendency to softening or suppuration. It never produces the globular outline of a chondroma, nor its elastic sensation on pressure. It is, moreover, probably accompanied by a history or other signs of syphilis. Treatment.—The illustration (Fig. 353) shows how impossible it would be to deal with some cases of multiple chondromata of the hand without sacrificing the part by amputation. And yet in this case it would have been distinctly wrong to have removed his hand, for he could hold a book and materially assist his right hand, whicli was the less deformed, in his daily occupation. He was eigliteen years of age, and had had these tumours since the age of two. Till the left hand was absolutely useless it would have been a misfortune to him to have lost it. In other cases, hosvever, a finger may be