1053 GHBONIO OSTEO-AUTHBITIS. Tlien another condition begins to be noticed around the borders of the encrusting cartilages, advancing ^mri j>assu with the using up of the latter. This is an irregular swelling of the tissue, producing eminences of a pearly hyaline look or yellowish colour. These are noticed at those aspects of the joint where the movements are least felt—namely, at the borders of the encrusting tissue, where it touches the periosteal and synovial vascular supply, and where the nutrition of the cartilage may be said to be at its best. These nodules only interfere with the free play of the parts during the extraordinary movements of the joint. They are, beyond all question, due to hyperplasia of the cartilage, which latter is explained either by irritation produced by the play of those parts of the surfaces of the articulation which are undergoing degeneration one against the other in their roughened state, or by the presence in the blood of some irritant substance. The first of these is the most likely hypothesis as far as we know at present. Together with this obvious hyperplasia, there is usually a certain amount of hypersemia of the nearest vascular tissue—i.e. the synovial membrane—but only in sufficient quantity to produce a slight amount of increased secretion. This was formerly supposed to be the initial change, but is now recognised as probably only secondary to the earlier degenerative disorganisation. For it is easy to understand that, when hard osseous tissue comes to rub against osseous tissue, with- out the interposition of cartilage, there must be an amount of friction, and consequent irritation not present beforehand. Then, as this disease advances, the bone thus injured becomes, in its turn, hypersemic, and begins to throw out new osseous tissue, especially at the periphery of the joint, where it is not subjected to pressure. In the first instance, this hypertemia leads to softening of the bone by the well-known processes of rarefaction, so that it is less resistant to pressure, and soon becomes altered in shape on its surfaces being moulded and rubbed down by the opposite bone (Fig. 432). The new material, too, at its edges is at first soft, and may assume various shapes, according to the forces brought to bear upon it. As a rule, however, it presents itself in the form of lobes and irregular nodules, which have been compared by Billroth to “ tallow drippings.The effect of the chronic hypersemia upon the synovial membrane is to cause its gradual thickening. At the same time, it becomes rough on the surface, and frequently throws out hyper- plastic fringes or pendulous growths. Sometimes these latter are torn off by the movements of the joint, and so foi’m loose bodies ; or they may become ossified or calcified, and then seriously interfere with the functions of the part. Every museum contains examples of these loose bodies. It is^ the presence of this new bone round the borders of the joint which gives it the lumpy appearance seen and felt through the skin, and which so seriously impedes its movements, and gives rise to the grating so familiar in these cases. But, though there may be much material thrown out in such cases, it rarely, if ever, leads in