955 GENERAL SYMPTOMS. replacement of the bone, and the efiorts of the surgeon must be directed towards maintaining the limbs in a good position for subsequent firm anchylosis. Should the patient recovei, excision or osteotomy may be afterwards perforjned with good result. Dislocation from deformation is more usually partial than com- plete. The distortions of the joints of the fingers, in chronic rheumatoid artlnitis, are familiar examples. Deformation displacements are principally of interest, from the possibility of confounding them with traumatic dislocations, when the sufterers from these conditions of the joints are exposed to falls or other violence. Partial or incomplete dislocations.—When large flat surfaces of bone articulate, as in the knee or astragalo-calcanean joint, partial displacements are the rule rather than the exception. In the “ ball-and-socket ” joints, as the hip and shoulder, much dis- cussion has arisen as to their possibility. Many of the related cases have doubtless been mistaken for disease, as for rheumatoid arthritis ; others may be attributed to speculative diagnosis in injuries associated with much swelling. When fracture co-exists, a portion of the capsule and articulating surface may be carried away with the head of the bone. This can hardly be looked upon as true partial dislocation. In “ partial dislocations ” of the shoulder the capsule is said not always to be ruptured ; and although it is jiossible for a dislocation of the head of the humerus to occur without rupture of the capsule, probably this is complete—i.e. the articular surfaces are quite separated. INIany cases diagnosed as partial dislocations of the shoulder, are really displacements of the long biceps tendon. The cases of South and Le Gros Clark point strongly to the conclusion that partial dislocation of the shoulder is possible, but not probable. This subject will be again alluded to from time to time in speaking of the symptoms of dislocation of the larger joints. General symptoms of dislocation.—These may thus be summarised : a person is subjected to some force acting upon a previously healthy and well-acting articulation. He may be con- scious of a “ snap ” or sensation of tearing violence, and forthwith the movements of thff joint are more or less lost, and passive motion becomes difficult, impeded, and painful. Severe “ numb ” pain is experienced in the course of the main nerves implicate^^ The appear- ance of the part to the eye js by far the most important sign of dislocation. The sound joint should always be compared with the loured, wlien alterations in contour, and of the distances and rela- tions of salient bony points to each other, will be apparent to sight, measurement, and palpation. No crepitus is elicited if the parts are examined directly after the injury. Mery shortly the slieatlis of the tendons and joint surfaces becoine roughened by exudation, whereupon a crepitus, hard to dis- tinguish from that of fracture, may be appreciated in a joint merely dislocated. ‘ On reduction, the partu are restored to their normal slrape,