1054 DTSEASES OF JOINTS. simple chronic osteo-arthritis to fusion or synovitis of tlie two bones. The latter may be firmly locked one into the other, but they are not fused, as in cases of ordinary inflammation. The reparative powers of the part are, in fact, below par, and the plastic processes only go to a certain stage, and no farther. In some cases, however, the process just described is slightly modified, though essentially the same. For some unexplained reason the degenerative process seems to progress more slowly, and the cartilage is only tardily worn away. The underlying bone at the same time is only very gradually irritated as its surfaces become more and more bared of cartilage. The consequence is an inflammation of a lower degree of intensity, which, instead of leading to softening of the bone, is the cause of a sclerosing osteitis in its superficial layers. The bone thus hardened is more slowly ground and worn away than when rarefied, and as a consequence lias a smoother surface at the worn points of contact. These frequently become actually polished, when the whole surface assumes the ap- pearance of porcelain or ivory. In this state the movements of the joints may be fairly free and almost without grating, the surfaces being so perfectly smooth. it is said that occasionally the process of degeneration may lead in cases of osteo-arthritis to the formation of caseous material, which will float about in the synovium or lie embedded in the tissues form- ing the surfaces of the joint. But this is certainly very rare, and when met with suggests very strongly that there is a tuberculous or syphilitic element in the case, tuberculous arthritis being by no means so uncommon in elderly patients as is commonly supposed. At all events, if such caseous degeneration does take place in chronic rheumatic arthritis, the course which the disease pursues is precisely that of the tuberculous foci of arthritis. The joint becomes swollen, doughy, and tender, in addition to the usual signs and symptoms of the ordinary form of the affection, and sooner or later soft spots are felt under the skin, and the latter breaks, discharging curdy broken- down material. In this way the joint may be opened up, and^ if the sinuses should then become infected ordinary suppuration with all its dangers is grafted upon the degenerative process, and very soon leads to the utter disorganisation of the whole articulation and to the most grave constitutional disturbance. Such cases, as already stated are very rare, and if the softening process become developed in a case in which osteo-arthritis had been previously present in one or more of the joints, careful inquiry and examination should be made, in view of the possibility of syphilis or tubercle, before it is admitted that the process is due to the original disease. SvintJtoMis—The symptoms in all the various phases of osteo- arthritis are both subjective or objective. In the earliest stages when the cartilage is degenerating the patient will notice first some creaking in the joint, with slight insecurity in using it. There is, as a rule but little pain at first, and no tenderness. At this stage nothin^ objective can be made out, except that the roughened surfaces