1062 DISEASES OF JOINTS. the ends of the bones quite independently of any other infection of the system which we can detect by our present methods of diagnosis. It is, of course, also at times a secondary aflection, in many cases appeax’ing in the joints after a wider distribution through the system. Attempts have been made to estimate the relative frequency of primary and secondary tuberculous bone disease, but so far they have failed, and in the nature of things they are likely to fail for some time to come. When tuber- culous disease attacks the ends of bones it most usually has its first seat in or about the epiphysial line, where there is much young growing tissue (Fig. 436). This form of disease is often referred to as “ tuberculous epiphysitis,” a name which has a certain amount of convenience, and which may be emjDloyed with the proviso that it be understood that the affection starts rather at the junction of the epiphysis and cliaphysis than in the actual epiphysis itself, although it has a tendency in most cases to spread into the latter. But tubercu- lous disease may also start in the end of a bone under the encrusting car- tilage, where there is also a quantity of young embry- onic tissue, peculiarly vul- nerable to this Fig. 435.—Metaoarpnl Bone, with tuberculous sequestrum in centre, cut oif from the inflamed bone by granulations. The thicVening of tlie periosteum over the inflamed area is well seen, flut both joint surfaces are free. (From a Photograph, by Prof, Chejne.) specific infec- tion. In either case, the morbid process consists in an infection of the medullary tissue with the bacillus tuberculosis, which soon excites in the latter a low form of inflammation, characterised by cell multi- plication round certain centres, until nodules of soft granulation are formed, which, as they increase at the periphery, undergo degenera- tive changes towards their centre (Fig. 431). This process may extend from the epiphysial line or under the encrusting cartilage through the latter, and so invade the whole joint in all its parts. But it must not be forgotten that it may also extend in a lateral direction altogether, and though very close to the joint surfaces, may never penetrate through them, but may open on the surface of the limb hard by, leaving the joint proper intact (Fig. 435). Limbs have over and over again been removed under the im- pression, on the part of the surgeon, that the joint was gravely affected because sinuses ran down from the surface almost into it wlien it has been found afterwards that the joint proper was in no wise involved, and that the focus of disease might have been reached without any interference with its surfaces. On the other liand, we must remember that chronic tuberculous disease