84 SUPPURATION. the part in the first instance. If they enter in very large numbers, they will overcome the resistance of the body and produce very grave disease ; while if few in number, they may be destroyed before they have had time to act. In rabbits, which are not readily susceptible to the action of the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus—probably not nearly so susceptible as man—I found that something like a hundred million cocci must be injected at one part in order to produce an absce&s, wnile a thousand million are required to kill the animal. In man, no doubt, the numbers are very much smaller, but neverthe- less, the principle remains the same. Among the factors on the part of the lody which are more or less necessary in order to enable the organisms to act, a very essential condition is that it may be possible for them to remain at rest for some time in the part. If they be only present in the circulating blood, and are constantly carried on in it, they may die out without causing any disease; and as regards the staphylococci, at any rate, it is probable that when they are present in the blood, they are only able to exert their pathogenic action when deposited in some part which has been previously weakened and thus rendered fit for their reception. Hence the great importance of embolism in the formation of abscesses, and hence also one of the chief ways in which local injury may lead to the formation of an acute abscess. In the latter case, where an acute abscess follows a local injury, these pyogenic cocci have been present in the blood at the time of the injury, or have entered it very shortly afterwards and have passed out of the ruptured vessels, and thus found a place where they could develop. _ Another very important condition on the part of the tissues is that they shall be in a weak state, and this weakened condition of the part may be brought about in various ways. For example ; inflammation which has been set up from some other cause, sucli as an iniury, the entrance of a foreign body, etc., will so_ weaken the part that if cocci reach it from the blood or lymphatic vessels, or otherwise, they mav be able to grow and set up the typical changes. A similar weakening of the part may be brought about by cold or injury, or the action of irritating chemical substances which may be adventitious in origin, or the products of bacteria themselves. _ A aood deal also depends on the seat of the disease and the anatomical L-rangement of the part. Thus, in the neig^ourhood of the epiphyses, the circulation is apparently slower than elsewhere, an particles floating in the blood—for example, particles of pigment or bacteria—have a better opportunity of becommg deposited in that part. Hence one explanation of the frequency with which inflam- mation in the substance of bones begins in the neighbourhood of the epiphyses. Again, in the case of the peritoneum we have a very srt-iking example of the influence which the anatomical arrangement of the part ex^ts on the question of suppuration. Contrary to w at was formerly believed, the peritoneal cavity is a place where sup_ ;ra«on in"L..any cases is less likely to occur after the entan ; of micro-organisms than the cellular or muscular tissues, and many