SIMPLE SYNOVITIS. 1037 interfered with, and the balance between secretion and absorption is thus upset. Aspiration in such cases may be repeated several times, and yet without avail; the joint, though painless, refills each time. Here we will find much benefit from repeated blistering at short intervals, with firm elastic pressure. The blisters should be applied in constant succession on different aspects of the joint every alternate day or so, and the pressure may be kept up by bandages applied over thick wool laid upon the blisters. Later, if the fluid is completely removed, or almost so, the joint may be strapped with plaster in the usual way as soon as the blistered surfaces are healed. This will promote absorption of any remaining fluid, and will often prevent its return when the patient is beginning to use the affected part. If these means fail, it may be desirable to aspirate and wash out the cavity with some mild anti- septic, such as 2^ per cent, of carbolic acid, or a weak iodine solution. This is frequently per- fectly successful where other milder means have been ineffectual; but it is not clear exactly why, unless there be irritant products in the synovial fluid which is evacuated, but of this there is no evidence at present in ordinary subacute synovitis following injury or cold. In many cases great benefit is derived from massage regularly applied. Fluid is by this means removed, and the stiffness of the joint overcome. Patients having had subacute attacks of synovitis should be careful in all cases to wear over the joint, for some weeks or months after all swelling has disappeared, a covering of elastic webbing, and should guard the part against overstrain or exposure to cold or wet, which is very likely to bring on the trouble again. 3. Simple chronic synovitis.—This form differs but little from the subacute, except in degree. The same eflects are pro- duced by similar causes. But, owing to some peculiarity ii/the patient, usually a defective vitality, the effects last longer, and as a consequence are somewhat modified. Again, want of rest may convert a subacute into a chronic case. Thus, though the Fig. 430—Pendulous Folds of Synovial Membrane, due to ohronio Inflamma- tion. (University College Museum.)