displacement of fragments. 745 The earlier the injury, and the more important the epiphysis, the greater will be the shortening. Cases of five and six inches’ shortening in the humerus, after early separation of its upper epiphysis, have been recorded, the arm being otherwise well de- veloped. When growth is arrested in one of two parallel bones, however, the result is more serious, for the other necessai’ily cui-ves as its length increases. Separation of an epiphysis may be compound or complicated hy the various injuries to soft parts given under fractures. Irreduci- bility is generally due to the shaft being caught in the hole in the periosteum, through which it has protruded, or to the slipping of a tendon between the fragments. In compound cases it has oc- casionally been found necessary to saw off the lower end of a protruding shaft; in simple cases, otherwise irreducible, an open operation would often be indicated, either to avoid arrest of growth, improve function, or relieve surrounding parts from pressure, the epiphysis being pinned to the shaft if necessary. Displacement of the fragments in fractures is very variable and important—for displacement gives rise to deformity, one of the best signs of fracture. It may prevent the eliciting of crepitus and abnormal mobility in the length of a bone; and it may prevent union by separating the broken surfaces. Unreduced dis- placement may impair or annul the utility of a part. , There may be no displacement; this is most common in incom- plete or transverse toothed fractures, in fractures of one of two parallel bones, and of bones covered with dense fibrous tissue, which sometimes escapes untorn. As a rule, the fragments are displaced in one or more of the following directions:— (1) Angular displacement is very connnon, and does not cause any noteworthy separation of the fragments. It is the only form possible in incomplete (Fig. 205), subperiosteal, and deeply-toothed fractures ; it is the usual displacement in simple transverse fractures, and, coupled with overlapping of the fragments, is frequent in oblique fractures. (2) Lateral displacement alone is somewhat rare, and occurs in transverse or nearly transverse fractures (Fig. 217). When incom- plete, the broken surfaces are not entirely separated ; but when com- plete, longitudinal displacement, separating the raw surfaces, is almost certain to be added (Fig. 214). Some lateral displacement accompanies the longitudinal displacement usual in oblique fractures : whether the broken surfaces are separated in this case depends on the amount of shortening. ‘ (3) Longitudinal displacement includes several varieties;—(a) Overlapping of the fragments—which lie side by side instead of end to end—is the commonest. It is usually present in oblique fractures (Fig. 288), also in transverse fractures after complete lateral dislocation ( Fig. 214). The surfaces are more or less completely separated, and the limb shortened. Sometimes, in comminuted and in Y-fractures. tlie V *