WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 220 or 1 to 4,000 sublimate solution, and applied over the wound, and in a considerable mass over a large area around; and among the layers of this gauze I place one or more sponges which have been thoroughly wrung out of carbolic acid solution, so arranged as to press over all the recesses of the wound. Outside these sponges fresh layers of gauze are applied, overlapping them in all directions, and outside of all a mass of salicylic wool. This is then firmly bandaged on, and, unless where a drainage-tube is employed, the dressing need not be changed for about ten days, when it will be found that the wound has healed and the stitches can be removed. It is an occurrence of the very greatest rarity, where proper pre- cautions are taken, for suppuration to occur in a wound; and, if it does occur, we must at the present day accept the view that it is due to some oversight on the part of the surgeon or his assistants. Where a drainage-tube has been used and the wound remains aseptic, the dressing should be changed after about three days in order to remove it; and, no doubt, the patient is more comfortable after the first dressing, because the bandage can be applied more in accord- ance with his sensations; but, on the whole, I think whei’e a drain- age-tube is not employed that it is best to leave the dressing on till the wound is completely healed, otherwise, in removing the dressing, one is very apt to disturb the union which is occurring in the deeper parts, because the dressings applied as I have described very soon dry up, and the deeper layer adheres firmly to the skin and the edges of the wound, and, therefore, in removing it, these parts are apt to be pulled upon. In changing the dressings similar precautions must be employed as have been described in making the wound. For example, a wet towel should be arranged in the neighbourhood of the wound, so that if by any accidental movement of the patient the clothes should shift, what would come in contact with the wound would be an aseptic towel, and not the dirty blankets. The lotion I generally use is 1 to 2,000 sublimate solution, but in parts such as the axiUse, or after operation for hernia, where there may be a certain amount of bacteric growth in the neighbourhood of the wound, I generally wash the surrounding skin with 1 to 20 carbolic lotion. For the purpose of washing the skin I use salicylic wool taken from the layer of wool removed in the dressing which has been next the cyanide gauze. This layer of wool is aseptic, having been pr^ tected from dust by the superficial layer next the bandage, which ia not employed for this purpose. Of course, it need hardly be pointed out that in washing the parts after the removal of the dressing one must not wash the surrounding skin, and then with the same cloth wash the wound subsequently, because one rnight quite readily transfer septic material from the surrounding skin to the wound in this way ; and in order to avoid any risk of this kind it is well, as soon as the wound is uncovered, to lay a piece of the soalmd wool over the line of incision before proceeding to clean the parts One may hen set to work and thoroughly cleanse all the skin in the vicinity