lo SVUGIOAL BAGTUlBtOLOGt. 8. Distribution and habitat.—Bacteria are so widely distii- buted that it may be well to consider, briefly, the positions in which they occur, and from what points surgical wounds are usually attacked. It was for long supposed that most of the organisms setting up suppuration, hospital gangrene, and similar conditions, were carried by air currents, but it is now generally accepted that comparatively few organisms, and only those that can survive the entire absence of moisture and are adherent to particles of dust, can be carried in this manner. Most of the pathogenic and pyogenic organisms are incapable of continuing their existence in the absence of moisture, so that the danger of infection through the air is com- paratively slight, though it is one that cannot be neglected, especi- ally where large numbers of organisms are being thrown off from a dry warm surface, or are present in a heated atmosphere where currents are numerous and strong. There are, as a rule, com- paratively few pathogenic organisms found floating in the atmo- sphere except when dust, to which groups of micro-organisms will be found to adhere, is being blown about. Pyogenic organisms, however, have been repeatedly found in the air of inhabited rooms, but this is explicable by the fact that these organisms are so fre- quently met with even on the surface of healthy bodies. In some experiments carried on by Dr. Cartwright Wood and myself, we were able to prove that tubercle bacilli were present in considerable numbers in the air of a room in which were a number of tuberculai animals. Similar observations have been made by other observers. The surface of the soil, especially that holding a large quantity of organic matter, contains large numbers of micro-organisms, most of which are instrumental in carrying on the processes of putrefaction and in breaking-down highly organised matter uito its simpler constituent elements. There may be an entme absence of free micro-organisms from the subsoil at a greater depth than five or six feet, except where they have been washed down by water percolating rapidly through the upper layers. Most of these micro-organisms are saprophytic m character, but as already pointed out, the anthrax bacillus may be a source of danger for some time after it has found its way on to surface soil; whilst the bacillus of tetanus and that of malignant oedema, which are very frequently present in cultivated soil, are factors in a danger which cannot be ignored by the surgeom Water contains a very large number of bacteria, some washed from the surface of the soil, whilst others, the so-called water organisms, can be found only in water and are most of them non-pathogenic. These water organisms flourish at a compara- tively low temperature, but some are not at all easily cultivated artiflcially except under conditions similar to those maintained in streams. To the surgeon, the presence of water organisms is ot comparatively little importance, as even the most resistant ot them may be killed if the water be boiled for a few minutes. The free surfaces and cavities of the human body are all tained moist and at a temperature suitable for the growth ot