600 ANEUBY8M. flattened out, and then absorbed ; tendons are very resistant and are displaced, flattened out, and then incorporated in the sac. In certain situations mucous canals, such as the oesophagus, the trachea or one of the bronchi, are displaced and compressed. ’ Ellccts on the cii-cnlation. (a) Loss of /orce.—The force with which blood is propelled into an aneuiysmal sac is so much loss to the pressure with which the blood is propelled onwards, for only a trifling amount is returned in the form of elastic recoil. This loss of force in the circulation beyond it is the most constant and characteristic effect of an aneurysm. As its direct result, the tension in the arteries beyond is reduced, and the nutrition of the tissues supplied by them pro tanto affected. But Nature, as it were, re- sponds to the call of the impoverished tissues and imperfectly filled arteries in two ways : (1) by hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and (2) by an enlargement of the collateral arteries above the aneurysm; so that blood is poured into the vessels below, partly through the main trunk and partly through the anastomosing channels. When the condition of the patient prevents compensatory cardiac hyper- trophy, and the anastomosing vessels are so diseased that this en- largement cannot occur, the coldness and wasting of the parts beyond an aneurysm may be marked. In many cases of aneurysm the associated cardiac hypertrophy precedes the development of the aneurysm, being chiefly due to widely distributed atheroma and the loss of elasticity in the diseased arteries generally. (^) Effect on the pulse.—The pulse-wave travelling along an artery is so interrupted by the presence of an aneurysm that in the artery beyond it the wave is delayed, and smaller and feebler than it otherwise would be. Much attention has been paid to sphygmographic tracing of the pulse in arteries beyond an aneurysm, and the late Dr. Mahomed attributed great diagnostic value to these Pig. 174.—Sphygmograpliic Tracings of the Eadial Pulse of a Patient with Aneurysm of the Eight Brachial Artery. (Mahomed.) 1, Left radial pulse; 2, right radial pulse. sphygmograms. In a ty2iical case the tracings show a loss of tho impulse and dicrotic waves, and a diminution of the force and rapidity of the tidal wave; this is well seen in the accompanying figure copied from Dr. Mahomed (Dig. 174). The influence of an aneurysm upon the pulse-wave no doubt depends upon the size of the aneurysm and of its mouth, and this explains the variations that are observed in different cases.