1042 DISEASES OF JOINTS. ■was the solvent action of the secretion in the joint upon the cartilage, that it had but little time to develop any tissue change in its deeper parts, Symptoms.—The clinical features of acute septic synovitis, as contrasted -with the simpler forms, are easy to dra’w. Not only have we the general condition to guide us, but we have the fact that frequently more than one joint is affected spontaneously and simul- taneously, and without any local external exciting cause. Not un- commonly, too, effusion appears in one joint and then disappears, while another joint is becoming acutely affected. This in its turn may recover, while a third, fourth, or fifth may become successively involved in the same process. Some of these joints may completely recover, while others in the same individual may go on to the most destructive suppuration. Again, the swellings in the joints are often accompanied by circumscribed dusky flushes of the skin, which contrast strongly with the faded clay-like colour of the general surface of the body in septic infection. These somewhat livid blushes come and go, and are, besides, quite unlike the diffused bright flush of simple synovitis. In very severe cases the effusion tends to rupture the synovial pouch very early, and to diffuse itself freely among the surrounding tissues, setting up in them, too, the same suppurative processes. The fact that the toxic agent acts as a solvent upon any fresh plastic matter which otherwise would tend to limit the process, explains the rapid destructive changes produced in this form of disease. The subjective symptoms are the same as those accompanying the simple form of syno-vitis, running on to suppuration (page 1036); but the constitutional condition is quite different. There is the high but oscillating temperature, the rigors, delirium, restlessness, great wasting, and often vomiting; in fact, the symptoms are more or less of marked general pyaemia. {See Pyemia, page 183.) Ti'eatnsemt.—The treatment locally is carried out on the same principles which guide us in dealing with simple acute synovitis of the suppurative form; but we must remember that early evacuation of the septic effusion into the joint is here more than ever of importance. Here, too, the washing out of the cavity is more pressingly called for than when the pus is not septic, and the fluid employed may be more strongly antiseptic. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the mechanical flushing effect of the fluid passing through the joint is probably of more importance than its germicide properties. Indeed, more will be achieved by using a large quantity of simply sterilised water to carry away every trace of the irritating pus from the joint than by using a limited quantity of a strong bacterimdal solution, and the prognosis as to movement in the articulation of those who recover will be better. For there can be no doubt that germicides stron<T enough to destroy bacteria in the joints, and in the tissues from which they are derived, must also be strong enough to uiiure the vitality of the superficial cells of the joint surfaces upon which we rely for the repair of the lesion. _ -j.- ■. The pi-og-Diosis in these cases of acute septic synovitis i§ very