877 acute necrosis. Dead bone. Invaginating sheath of new I'one. (page 884). The periosteum separated from tlie sliaft begins to throw out°newbone, whilst the pus makes its way through several apertures to the surface. The new bone is called the invaginating sheath, whilst the aper- tures are spoken of as cloacts. This disease sometimes attacks the epiphysis itself, and extends to the joint instead of spreading along the shaft. In that case a purulent synovitis as a rule, ensues, with all the dire consequences of a sup- purative arthritis, which is described in the article on Diseases of Joints (Art. XXXIII.). It is rare for both the diaphysis and the epiphysis to be involved at the same time, but it does sometimes occur (Dig. 332). Pyaemia may arise from septic emboli, but it is not so frequent as in primary diffuse osteomyelitis. The means by which Nature rids itself of the dead bone will be described under Necrosis (page 884). jEtioIogy.—Little is as yet known for certain as to the exact cause of this most interesting disease. It is known to be an acute infective disease, and believed to be due to the invasion of jiyogenic organisms, which must in that case be supposed to act with a special virulence and through the blood. Or it may be that the vitality of the tissues is lowered by some local and trivial injury, and unable successfully to resist the invasion. By experiments on ani- mals it has been shown that a simple fracture may be made to suppurate by feeding the animal on putrid meat. The disease is most common in young and growing boys between eight and eighteen years of age. Some slight injury appears oftentimes to be the immediate exciting cause, but it is frequently so slight as to have been scarcely noticed, and may even be entirely forgotten. Those that are rather feeble and delicate or ill- nourished seem more liable to be at- tacked than the strong and healthy. Syinptoins.—Shivering, or even a rigor, with a temperature of 102° to 104° Fahr., may usher in the attack. General Fig. S82.—.\cute Necro- sis of !i Tibia in wliioli both tile Diapiiysis and lower Epiphysis have been involved, with consequent de- struction of the Ankle Joint. (St. Thomas's Hospital Museum, No. 531.)