743 SEFABATIOjSF of fpjpeyses. covered. In 23 the cleft traversed the zone of calcification between the cartilaginous disc and the shaft, for the disc almost invariably adheres to the epiphysis more strongly than to the shaft; both frao-ments then show elevations and depressions, and present small calcified particles. Detachment in this plane is the rule in early childhood. These two varieties may be spoken of as pure epiphysial separations. The remaining 33 cases, all between 10 and 20, were mixed epiphysial separations and fractures—the cleft lying to a greater or less extent in the shaft parallel to, but just beyond the epiphysial disc so that both fragments are coated with bone; or in the calcifying zone of the epiphysis at first, thence passing obliquely into the tissue of the shaft (Fig. 291). The “ mixed ” variety would appear to be the commoner, but the numbers are too small to decide the relative frequency of these varieties. Whether or not separation of an articular end will open into a joint varies with the epiphysis, and even with the age. Thus, at birth, separation of the upper epiphysis of the femur, which in- cludes head, neck, and great trochanter, would be extracapsular ; three or four years later there are separate nuclei in both head and great trochanter, the neck is fully ossified from the shaft, and a sepa- ration of the upper epiphysis (head only) is entirely intracapsular. Si^us.—These vary with the and plane of separation, but the age must always be such as to render the accident gis.-Separation of Epiphysis possible. In well-marked cases, deformity, ■■ ' ’ . -•j- abnormal mobility, and crepitus are pre- sent. Crepitus is soft when the cleft lies wliolly in cartilage, rougher when it tra- verses the calcifying zone, best marked when it invades the shaft. In pure cases the plane of separation corresponds with the position of an epiphysial disc. The end of the shaft may have a charac- teristic form, and is usually convex, the epiphysis being correspond- ingly concave—points easily concealed by thick covering or swelling, and lost in mixed cases. Diagnosis.—These accidents are distinguished from disloca- tions just as are fractures of articular ends. Dislocations of the elbow are most frequent between 5 and 15; otherwise separations of epiphyses almost replace dislocations up to 20. From fracture of the articular end, separation of the epiphysis is distinguished by the plane of separation, the form of the fragments, perhaps a charac- teristic deformity, and the quality of the crepitus. The ago may decide in favour of fracture. degree of great Trochanter with wide stripping of the Periosteum from the Sliaft. (London Hos- pital Museum.)