ABSCESS OF THE ANTRUM. 925 If the tooth is hofielessly destroyed, or is reduced to its roots, i1 may be extracted. In very many cases a free incision into an alveolar abscess will relieve pain, the sinus will often close, and after the intlammation subsides a dental surgeon will treat, success- fully stop, and thus preserve the tooth. When a troublesome sinus persists after the drainage of an alveolar abscess, the offending tooth .sliould be extracted. Many persistent sinuses are due to a small fragment of root left in the socket after extraction of the tooth, or to a small piece of necrosed bone. When an abscess forms after a tooth has been “filled” it is necessary to extract it, unless the patient is willing to submit to drilling of the tooth. This can be carried out under gas, and may save the tooth. An abscess at the root of a dead tooth is occasionally treated in this manner. W^henever possible, incisions into alveolar abscesses should be made in the mouth. Abscess (empyema) of the antrum.—A collection of pus within the antrum is in nearly all cases secondary to suppuration connected with teeth, especially the second bicuspids, and the first and second molars of the maxillary set. Inflammation, and occasion- ally suppuration, of the antrum may be due to extension from adjoining cavities. An antral abscess in some cases follows injury to its walls. The presence of pus within the antrum is indicated by local pain, which is sometimes very acute, but more often of a dull aching character. There is often tenderness, and the gum, as well as the mucous membrane of the nasal fossa of the affected side, is swollen, inflamed, and tender. Febrile symptoms attend the forma- tion of pus, which sometimes declares its presence by trickling from the nostril when the head is bent forwards, or into the pharynx when the patient is lying on the back. Occasionally, in acute cases, the overlying skin is inflamed, and epiphora, due to implication of the nasal duct, is by no means rare. P\is may collect in the antrum, and give rise to very few symptoms, and these may be ambiguous. This condition is known as “ latent empyema of the antrum.” Exceptionally, suppuration in the antrum may be due to a fungus —e.ff. aspergillus fumigatus. Diag:nosis.—In a large proportion of the cases in which the symptoms indicate a collection of pus within the antrum as their most probable cause, it is by no means an easy matter to come to a certain diagnosis. This is due to the fact that the signs relied upon as indicative of an antral abscess are simulated by inflammation of adjacent cavities—for example, the nasal fossa, frontal sinus, and even the naso-pharynx. It is also important to remember that it is sometimes extremely difficult to decide between an antral abscess and a tumour gi’owing in this cavity before it has begun to expand its walls.