DISEASES OF BONES. 892 the articular cartilage, and circumscribed by a healthy zone of chronic osteitis. There is a history in most cases of some preceding accident or injury, followed by persistent pain in a definite spot, which is always worse at night and in wet weather. On examination, an enlargement of bone is found in the position previously indicated, with one spot j^erhaps not bigger than a shilling or sixpence, which is exquisitely tender on firm pressure. There may be oedema and redness around, with a soft, almost fluctuating, area in its centre. In the absence of the small soft spot indicating perforation of bone, the excessive tenderness limited to quite a small space is the indica- tion of the position to which a trephine should be applied. If this is done and no pus found, the walls of the trephine opening should be perforated by a drill, in the hopes of reaching the small collection of pus which is thought to be present. A small sequestrum may also be found with the pus, as in other tuberculous diseases of bone. If neither pus nor dead bone be found, the patient will probably be relieved by the operation of a troublesome chronic osteitis, which was, after all, perhaps not tuberculous. The relief which is obtained in such a case is due in all likelihood to the removal of tension from the rigid Haversian canals. SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 1. Early periostitis.—In quite the early stage of acquired syphilis, whilst the eruptions are still present, and when even the primaiy lesion may not have ceased, it is not uncommon for the patient to sufier from small jieriosieal nodes. He generally com- plains of pain, especially at night, and tenderness at many diflferent pai-ts of his body. On examination, there will be found on the superficial aspect of the tibiae, clavicles, sternum, ribs, or skull small and excessively tender swellings attached to these bones. Relief is almost at once given by iodide of potassium in 10-grain doses. But the mercurial treatment, which has already been given, must on no account be omitted, as on this depends the ultimate success of the treatment for syphilis. (See also the Article on Syphilis, page 407.) 2. Late periostitis.—Several years after the primary manifes- tations of syphilis one large periosteal node may be found on one or other of the long bones. It is generally accompanied by a chronic osteitis, and often ends in a more or less diflused osteosclerosis. Iodide of potassium gives only temporary relief, and, as a general rule, a permanent enlargement remains, w'hich occasionally reminds the patient by attacks of pain and tenderness of his previous trouble. 3. A diffused osteitis, terminating in osteosclerosis of nearly the whole shaft of a long bone, may, however, be present without any definite node, as above described. W^hen this is the case, many bones are afiected, and generally in a symmetrical mamier. They are as intractable as in the former instance, but relief of the severer