XXI. GONOERHCEA. By JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, Jk., F.E.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the London Hospital; Surgeon to the Lock Hospital. The ffonococcus.—Gonorrhoea may be defined as a specific inflammation of the urethral and certain other mucous membranes, dependent upon the inoculation of a micrococcus which has the following characters:—It is an organism which occurs in pairs, the adjacent sides of which may be concave; is about the size of the ordinary micrococcus of suppuration (or slightly largei) ; it is cultivated with great difficulty, or not at all, on the ordinary nutrient media, but grows on human blood serum at a tempera- ture of 37° Centigrade; stains well with the various aniline dyes, but is readily decolorised by Gram’s iodine method, and is found within the pus and epithelial cells of the discharge as well as outside them. These features, and especially the last two, help to distinguish the gonococcus from the more common micrococci of suppuration. (See page 29.) The accompanying figure (Fig* 93) shows the gonococcus, the streptococci present in epithelial debris from the normal urethra and found in all cases of inflammation of the urethra, and also cer- tain micro-organisms which simulate very closely in appearances and reaction the gonococcus, but which (according to Lustgarten and others) are fairly common in the healthy urethral epithelium. It is evident from this that caution is necessary in expressing a positive opinion on the nature of urethral discharge from the characters of the organisms found therein. In the male subject its habitat is the urethra, and especially the bulbous part and the fossa navicularis; in the female it rarely affects the urinary canal, but breeds in the vagina and cervix uteri, some- times travelling up to the Fallopian tubes, and proving a fertile cause of salpingitis and its complications. One attack of gonorrhoea, unlike syphilis, confers no sort of immunity against a second one. The course of gonorrhoea.—We may divide the course of gonorrhoea into—(1) A stage of incubation, usually from three to five days, but occasionally as long as ten to fourteen; (2) a stage of acute inflammation, lasting from a week to a fortnight, or more