‘22 StmaiCAL ISAOTUmiOLOGY. pathologists gradually acquire a certain immunity even against septic poisoning. Tliere can be no doubt that individuals dilTer enormously as regards their susceptibility to poisoning by post- mortem dissection wounds. Again, an artificial immunity may be produced in animals against certain of what are known as surgical diseases. Pasteur has carried out this on a large scale in connection with anthrax. The same thing has been done with malignant oedema, diphtheria, and tetanus, and a temporary immunity has been obtained against the action of the erysipelas organism. A similar immunity can be produced against the action of the Pneumococcus, the Bacillus pyocyaneus, and the pyogenic bacteria, amongst which may be reckoned the pyogenic staphylococci and streptococci, certain members of the proteus group, and the Bacillus coli communis. Sometimes protection against pus-forming organisms, of a more or less complete character, may be observed, but at present no very definite results have been obtained, and no attempt has been made to apply the knowledge so obtained to the prevention of suppuration in the human subject. It will be seen that the methods that have been used to produce artificial immunity are, in most cases, of such a character, that their employment would be attended with very con- siderable risk, unless the exact conditions are more definitely laid down than they possibly can be at present. It is well known that the number virulent organisms injected into the tissues, or into the bloodj is a most important factor in determining whether a disease shall be mild or acute; and numerous experiments have been made with the object of determining the lethal dose of certain bacteria when exhibited in different ways. It requires a certain number of tubercle bacilli to be intioduced subcutaneously in order to set up tuberculosis. Taking^ a less harmful bacterium, Watson Cheyne showed that it requires 18 millions of the Proteus vulgaris to produce any appreciable patho- logical effect, whilst to produce an abscess in an animal by the intro- duction of the same bacterium it requires 250 millions; in this case it may be that the proteids contained in the bodies of these bacteria are the causes of the chemotaxis and of the degeneration of the atti’acted cells. _ This factor of dosage has been utilised in the production ot immunity. To obtain such immunity, a dose, small enough not to be fatal, of a living virulent culture of the specific micro-organism acrainst which the immunity is to be set up, is injected. _ A second method is so far to attenuate the virulence of the specific micro- organism, that compa^iSIrcly large doses may be exhibited for the purpose of setting up a mild attack of the disease; in this method the boundary line between non-lethal and lethal doses is very much broadened. «• . j • Such atteruiation of micro-organisms has been effected in various • fashions by the action of chemical reage^; by the cultivation of bacteria at sHgKnyTTiglieT'teuq^atures than those at wliicli they flourish most’ luxuriantlyTlor instancerin the case of the anthrax