329 GUINEA WORM. HfHe later after infection. Stiffness and flexion of the elbows and knees are usually first noted, and this is followed by rigid extension of both limbs and trunk. Rigidity of special sets of muscles, such as those of mastication, of the eyeball, and of respiration give rise to characteristic signs. The muscles feel swollen and tense, and are tender. (Edema of the eyelids, and later of the face and limbs, is sometimes obseiwed when the disease is fully developed, ihe general symptoms before the appearance of the muscular signs are a feelin^' of lassitude, loss of appetite, perhaps nausea, sleeplessness, and slio-ht fever. Later, the temperature may rise to 102 j the pulse is“accelerated, and there is often profuse sweating. The tongue becomes dry, red, and furred, and the bowels are constipated 3 or sometimes diarrhcea is met with. _ t, 1 . Diagnosis.—The rigidity of the muscles is the only sign bkely to give trouble; if a wound existed, the question of tetanus might arise. Attention to the history of the case and date of the advent of symptoms, examination of the feces for worms, possibly the removal of a portion of the patient’s muscle for examination, would be means of arriving at a correct conclusion. Prognosis.—Severe cases may prove fatal in four or five weeks, the patient dying of exhaustion, ulceration of the colon, or pneu- monia. If the patient recovers, three or four months at least must elapse before the patient is convalescent. The most important point in the prognosis.is the number of embryos which have reached the muscles, and this can only be judged of by the amount of stiffness, pain, and swelling which exists. Treatment.—This consists in clearing the patient’s bowels of the parent worms as fully as possible 3 to this intent, calomel or castor oil in large doses may be given. Glycerine is stated to have been successfully tried as a curative medicine in the United States. As a preventive to the disease, thorough cooking of the meat is the only requisite 3 hence, probably, the rarity of the disease in Great Britain. XIII. GUINEA WORM. .ffitiology.—This is a nematode worm {Dracunculus medinensis), which, introduced into the alimentary canal of man in the larval con- dition, migrates thence into the tissues, and is eventually discharged as a fully-developed worm from the surface of the body. The parasite is met with in tropical climates (West Coast of Africa, Upper Egypt, Soudan, Nubia, Abyssinia, banks of Ganges, Persia, Arabia Petrtea, Mauritius, CuraQoa, Antilles, Bahia). The female worm, when met with in the tissues, lies coiled in the long axis of the limb, the head towards the distal extremity. The length varies considerably: thus, from one foot to forty inches (Ewart), but extremes from six to twelve feet have been recorded. The largest have been obseiwed in Africa. The body is milk-white in colour,. cylindrical, of an uniform diameter of ^ of an inch, ending posteriorly by a pointed recurved tail, anteriorly by a rounded head, L'*