INJURIES OF NERVES. 686 to ensure proper approximation, for if tied very tightly they ^yil] most likely cut their way through almost at once. After suturing such tendons as may have been divided, the wound must be closed, and the limb put up in such a position as to ensure, as far as possible, comjdete relaxation of the wounded nerve; splints and bandages should be applied, so as to prevent any sudden stretching of the wound. If the wound heal without suppuration, the nerve, if sutured with the precautions advised, will in time unite ; but, as has already been said, the evidences of repair may not be demonstrable for many months. Union is more rapid in the young and in them is also more perfect. It is seldom that sensation and muscular power are completely recovered, and even in the best cases there is liable to be some permanent numbness, so that whilst the part involved is nowhere ansesthetic, the touch loses its delicacy. _ In some cases sensation may return and motion may never be regained; in others, whilst motion is restored, the skin remains numbed. In order to promote union of the divided nerve, as soon as the wound is soundly healed the paralysed muscles should be daily galvanised and mas- saged, and the joints should be moved to prevent the formation of adhesions. It is, further, of the utmost importance that the whole extremity affected, especially the paralysed part, should be kept warm. Cold is most harmful, and repair is in many cases apparently more rapid during the summer than in the winter months. Secondary suture,—In many cases a surgeon does not have the opportunity of seeing a patient till some weeks have elapsed since the injury of a nerve, and if there be then evidence of division of a nerve trunk, and no attempt at primary suture has been made, it is necessary to reopen the wound and ascertain the extent ot the injury. In such a case it is well to wait till a suppurating hi healed before undertaking any operation, so as to be able to operate on aseptic tissues. The incision should be made in the long axis of the injured nerve, and should be of sufficient length to enable the latter to be exposed an inch or more above and below the seat of injury. It is much easier to find the nerve ends in this way than by ^simply cutting into the scar where the various injured tissues Ire matted so as to make it difficult to distinpiish them from each other. Having thus found the injured nerve above and below Te scar it is necessary to dissect the ends from the fibrous tissue which binds them down. A fresh section of each must then be cut. In the lower end as little as possible should be removed, for no good results from cutting away any considerable length the whole pe Xl L betas e!l equally atropMed As the section should be earned through the upper f but the whole of the latter need not be resected. It the neri e seema Lmh shortened, the ends may be stretched before The latter should be of the same material, and passed in the same y as has been described in the account nerveS - Punctured wounds and partial division or n