1120 inSJ^ASJSS OF JOINTS. time to time. There will, as a rule, be but slight difficulty in the diagnosis, inasmuch as the affection in the ankle is usually seen after other joints, such as the hip and knee, have been extensively affected, and the symptoms are the same as in the larger joints. The treatment is also the same. AFFECTIONS OF THE TAESAL JOINTS. These joints are subject to the same diseases as the larger articu- lations, but no formal description is required for their recognition. 'I'he various forms of synovitis, from the simple to the tuberculous, are met with in every degree, and their treatment is conducted upon pre- cisely the same principles that guide us in dealing with the lai’ger articulations. Be- yond all question the most important of all are the tuberculous affections. For these rest is the first consideration, and is best secured by disuse of the foot altogether as an agent of progression. To this end the patient should be furnished with a bucket and pin leg, upon which he ean walk in- stead of the foot. But if this rest with or without Bier’s treatment (which is peculiarly suitable to the tarsal affections) and the iodoform injections have failed, the tuber- culous foci must be removed by operation. No hard-and-fast rules can be laid down for this removal, except that the contiguous bones are almost always involved, and re- quire resection, and that this must be thorough, and must be undertaken through adequate incisions. These may be placed over the bones affected, and the latter can be often shelled out of their periosteum cleanly with great ease and advantage, more or less reproduction of bone taking place. The after-treatment is the same as in other cases. In all such cases I prefer the bucket splint and wooden pin or plaster-of-Paris splints to every other, and these latter should be made thick enough (with or without windows for drainage) to bear the weight of the body when the patient begins to walk about. When windows are necessary to admit of access to wounds or sinuses, the plaster should be varnished over to prevent absorption of dis- charges. The best varnish for this purpose perhaps is Friar’s balsam (Tr. benzoin eo.), which may be painted freely over the edges of the window, and on the wound or sinus as well, as it is an excellent anti- septic. But, of course, other forms of fixing apparatus may be de- sirable in special cases, and such a pair of moulded leather splints as those figured in Fig. 458 will in many cases answer admirably. iSIetal splints (Fig. 460), consisting of a fiat foot-piece of tin united to a gi’ooved leg-piece by a stout copper rod, are also excellent. Ihe rod Fig, 460.—Splint tor fixir.g the Ankle Joint with Copper connecting Eod be- tween the two portions admitting of change of angle.