736 JNJLlUIh'S Ob' BONUS. absent; but it is generally obtainable in that direction which will increase the deformity and open more widely the fissure on the convexity. Crepitus is slight or absent; local pain, swelling, and loss of function are more or less marked. As to ti-eatment, that for the coiTesponding complete fracture should be used. Deformity should always be corrected—-an anaesthetic and a good deal of force being sometimes necessary—when it is such as to interfere with the utility of the part, but in a labourer’s child a firmly-fixed infraction of the clavicle need not be forcibly undone, especially as the deformity tends to diminish with growth. Function is resumed earlier after incomplete than after complete fracture ; yet Betz, who had an opportunity of comparing the two in the same cliild, forty days after the injury, found the callus much better developed and stronger in the latter than in tlie former. Isolated examples of typical infractions due to machinery accidents have been described in the fore-arm bones of young men, and still more rarely of other bones of adults—e.g. of the acro- mion in a man aged 54 (P. Bruns). Infractions and bendings of flat bones are seen almost solely in the bones of the roof of the skull. Spoon-shaped depressions form on the frontal or parietal bones, as a result of long pressure against the sacral promontory in cases of contracted pelvic brim ; they are said to show bending without simple fracture. Similar de- pressions from blows after birth always exhibit radial fissures. The depressed bone is said gradu- ally to rise. Very rarely in adults, when the fig. 20G.—Tibia of Child (jiploe is thick, the external table has been de- Fisrure^in^Tp^er'E^^^ pressed without affecting the internal. Fissures not passing completely through or across a bone form the second variety of incom- plete fractures. They are common in the flat bones, especially in those of the skull; some- times as single clefts running in various direc- numerous cracks, radiating from a centre, or less circularly round a depressed area. In- complete fissured fractures of long bones may be divided into those which start from the joint ends (Fig. 315), perhaps extend- ing into the shaft, and those involving the shaft only (Fig. 206), These fissures are impossible of recognition in simple injuries, so we do not know how frequently they occur. Usually a fissure is recognised only in compound injuries by the_ nail or some pointed instrument (when care must be exercised against mistaking a line of suture for a fissure), or its presence is inferred from tlie occurrence of Shaft, starting bo tow the Epiphysis. No history. (St George’s Museum, Series I. 208. Pick’s “ Fractures ami Dislocations.") tions, gam as more or