411 tertiary syphilis. being discharged Fig. 86.—Hands ol a Child, showing Dwarfing of the left middle Finger, the result of former Syphilitic Dactylitis. The first phalanx had especially been affected, and it will lie noticed that the finger is decidedly shorter than the index one. cives way, broken down gummatous material (perhaps mixed with fragments of bone), until eventually cicatrisa tion takes place. Syphilitic dactylitis may be due to either the acquired or the inherited disease. The accompanying figure (Fig. 85) is taken from a case of the latter, and shows the dwarfing of the afi'ected finger, due to absorption of much of the phalanx, it is ot special interest from tubercle giving rise to a closel}’ similar lesion in children, tubercular dactylitis being much more frequent than syphilitic. Curiously, ter- tiary syphilis has little tendency to attack the verte- brae and short bones of tarsus and carpus—favourite sites for tubercular disease. Syphilitic disease of the spinal cord, its dural sheath or its blood-vessels, is well known and quite frequent compared _ , ,, with the same affection of the bones forming the spmal canal; the exact reverse holds true of tubercle. 2. Tertiary syphilitic diseases of the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues.—This important group includes the very common cases of (1) gummatous and (2) serpiginous ulceration (the so-called syphilitic lupus), and a few cases of rupia and ecthyma. With the exception of the last, to which we need not further allude, the skin lesions of the tertiary stage are characterised by their destnictive and spreading tendencies, their multiplicity and asym- metry, and their amenability to treatment by iodides, etc. 1. Oiininia.tous ulcers.—The stages leading to the breaking down of a subcutaneous gumma, and the formation of an ulcer over it, have been already described. {See page 406.) It must be noted that in some cases when the patient comes under treatment the yellowish- white slough has disappeared; in others there may be marked infiltration of the surrounding tissues, with but little slough at any stage. The ulcers may be met with on any part of the body, but most commonly on the legs, or on some part of the trunk where there is much subcutaneous tissue, such as the region of the loins, or over the sacrum. The buttocks and external genitals are other not infrequent sites. The following characters of these ulcers are of importance in the diagnosis:—(1) History of a swelling or lump preceding the forma- tion of the ulcer; (2) borders of ulcer sharply cut (“ punched-out ”) and not much undennined; (3) edge rounded in outline, often infiltrated, hard, and congested ; (4) base covered with whitish slough, secretion thick (unlike the discharge from a tubercular ulcer, which is thin and watery) ; (5) the ulcer yields (if not too long