DISEASE COMMENCING IN BONE. 1061 osseous system. We shall, therefoi'e, in this place only consider the outlines of the changes as they more particularly affect the joints. The separate diseases of bones which afiect the joints are few, and excluding the results of injury, the vast majority of them will come under the heading of either syphilis, tubercle, osteo-arthritis, or Cliarcot’s disease. There are, of course, others, such as the acute septic inflammations of the bones, which occasionally play a part here ; but as a matter of fact, these almost invariably stop short at the epiphysial lines, and as the latter in most cases lie outside the capsule of the articulations, the chance of their invading the joints is small. Syphilitic disease.—This disease, as it affects the ends of the bones entering into the structure of joints, is usually a question of a growing gumma (see Mg. 82, page 408), which spreads through the articular cartilage, just as in other cases it advances through the skin, and Anally gives way on its surface. In such a case, if we examine the bone we find the syphilitic granu- loma in the cancellous tissue of its end presenting very much the appearance of inflamed medulla. This may or may not be under- going caseous change in one or other spot. The bone around is rarefied in most cases, but sometimes sclerosed if the process be more chronic. The cartilage around the borders of the gumma is normal, unless where undermined, when it is yellow or grey and shreddy. Tertiary disease of the end of a bone may also affect the joint when it takes on the form of a chronic osteitis, with the formation of osteophytes projecting more or less into the joint; or a syphilitic sclerosing osteitis may gradually lead to the formation of sequestra, which may work their way into the cavity of the articulation, and set up there a disorganising inflammation. The diagnosis of these conditions is not difficult, resting as it does upon the recognition of the constitutional condition, and a comparison of the local symptoms with those of the other possible affections of the joint. There will also in many cases be eAudence of local syphilis elsewhere, in the form of scars and nodes, interstitial keratitis, or stunted teeth. The treatment is that of syphilis in its most advanced stages, and it is only necessary to emphasise the fact that here it is of quite as much importance to attend to diet and everything which will improve the general nutrition of the body, as to give the usual specific remedies of syphilis, such as iodide of potassium and mercury, inasmuch as the varieties of this disease, which reach the joints as above described, are associated, as a rule, with great debility, and probably depend in a large measure upon it for their extremely destructive characters. Tuberculous disease commencing in the bones entering into the composition of joints is, perhaps, the commonest of all the affections of these structures, and seems to be especially so in England. (See page 879.) It is frequently a primary affection, appearfng in