687 NERVE GRAFTING. Punctured wounds of sensory nerves are sometimes followed by severe pain and liypersesthesia of the skin area supplied by the injured trunk. The pain is, in turn, sometimes accompanied by muscular spasm, and is made worse by movement. These conditions apparently result from some neuritis set up at the seat of injury, and should be treated by complete rest and the local application of anodynes, such as belladonna or opium. If these fail to relieve, small blisters to the hypersesthetic parts are often successful. In recent cases of partial division, when the patient is seen at once, it is advisable to suture the severed parts of the nerve trunk in the way already described. If, however, the patient be not seen until the wound is healed, the treatment adopted must depend on the extent of the loss of sensation and muscular power. If this be con- siderable, the injured nerve should be exposed, and, after separation from the surrounding scar, the extent of the injury must be carefully ascertained. If it appear that the nerve has been practically divided, the injured portion should be resected and the ends sutured ; but if it seem that the symptoms are rather due to scar pressure, then the surgeon should be content with freeing the trunk. Cases of partial section, when seen at once, generally do very well, because the part of the trunk which remains intact prevents any more separation of the cut fibres. II. CONTUSION OF A NERVE. A severe contusion of a nerve may be followed by all the symptoms of complete section. Slighter injuries cause a greater loss of motion than of sensation, and muscles may be quite paralysed whilst the sense of touch is but little impaired. Tlie treatment of these cases depends on the severity of the symptoms and the amount of time that has elapsed since the injury. In all I’ecent cases no operation should be undertaken, because a very large number of patients recover without any surgical interference. Again, if there be evidence that the nerve trunk is capable of conveying sensory impressions and that the muscles are not all paralysed, then the prognosis is that with rest, massage, and galvanism a good result will be obtained. On the other hand, if, after six or eight weeks, there be complete loss of sensation and of motor power, the injured trunk should be exposed and examined, for it may be that it has been torn across or divided by being crushed against a bone. In such cases resection of the injiired part and suture of the ends would be required. III. NERVE GRAFTING. Cases occasionally occur in which a considerable portion of a nerve trunk has been destroyed, and in which it is evident that the separated ends axe too far apart for the application of sxxtures. In several such instances a portion of nerve has been successfully trans- planted between the severed exxds, after separating the latter from the scar tissue surrouixding them, and refi’eshing them. The nei’ve