ODONTOMES. 935 for small, inconspicuous epitheliomatous ulcers, which are very liable to escape detection. Death is usually due to exhaustion, the result of pain, distress of mind, difficulty in taking food, and hsemorrhage. Many die from septic pneumonia. 3. Tumours of the teeth.—These belong to two genera: odontomes and sarcomata. Odoiitoines.—These tumours demand careful consideration, as they are clinically innocent, and in treating them surgeons have performed many unnecessarily severe operations in ignorance of the nature of the tumour. Odontomes are as frequent in the maxilla as in the mandible. The anatomical peculiarities of teeth tumours were considered on page 456, which should be re-read in connection with this section. Epitliclin! odontomes—Tliese occur most frequently about the twentieth year. They are encapsuled ; h but when the OA’er- lying mucous mem- brane ulcerates, they somewhat resemble epithelioma, and are a sometimes mistaken for myeloid sarco- mata. When large, they erode and de- stroy the surrounding bone (Fig. 366). Follicrdar odon- tomes (dentigerous Fig. 366.—Epithelial Odontome of the Mandible. (After Pepper cysts). These are Hospital Museum.) ■' , <1, Divided bone; 6. teeth; c, cysts containing a glairy fluid i d, lobules most common be- of the growth. tween the .seventh and twenty-fifth years. The clinical signs vary with their size and situation. They may be bilateral, and as many as four may be present. When small and impacted between the plates of the mandible, diagnosis is sometimes difficult, but the key to the nature of the case is furnished by detecting the absence of a tooth, as follicular odontomes only ai’ise in relation Avith unerupted teeth. In the early stage they are liable to be confounded with myeloid sarcomata. Later, when the tumour has emancipated itself from the jaw, its walls expand and form a globular fluid-containing tumour, Avhich may give rise to fluctuation and egg-shell crackling. When these tumours arise from the follicles of maxillary teeth, they quickly invade the antrum; when bilateral, they hideously distort the face. Several cases have been recorded in which tumours as large as the specimen represented in Fig. 367 have occupied both antra. dibrous odontomes.—This species occurs as tumours impacted in the mandibles or occupying the antra of children from the