723 FBACTUnES. cuts upon tlae side of tlie head, or a part containing bone may be completely cut through and severed from the body. Treatment.—Asepsis is of first importance, so that the dangers to which the structure of bone specially exposes those suffering from septic injuries may be avoided ; yet a wound containing in- iured bone, more or less cut off from its blood supply, must not be deluged with strong antiseptics. Whichever is selected .should be usedlif strength proportioned to the probable infection, in small quantity and intelligently, so that each drop may do its work. Bleeding from a distinct vessel in bone is checked by plugging the orifice with a bit of catgut, or of aseptic wax ; general oozing, by closing the wound and applying pressure, or if this is difficult to maintain, by draining for 24 hours. Only if sepsis is probable should loose fragments be removed. The wound sliould be closed like one of soft parts only ; given asepsis, bone raised in a fiap will probably live if the soft parts to which it is attached do so; it should fixed by a few marginal catgut stitches, or by two or three tacks of silver ^vire driven through both pieces and buried. A small completely separated part containing bone, like a last phalanx of a finger, has re-united, even after separation for an hour or more. Antiseptics should be used most sparingly in the conduct of such an experiment; periosteum should be united to periosteum, and skin to skin. A dry wool dressing should be used, and the part kept at rest. Bone exposed at the bottom of an open wound granulates and skins over like soft parts, a thin adherent and uncomfortable scar resulting. FRACTURES. Definition.—A fracture is a solution of continuity in a bone, suddenly made, either by contusion or flexure (or torsion). This, without the two last words, was the definition given by Richard Wiseman in 1676. Statistics. Frequency.—Fractures are among the commonest injuries. P. Bruns shows, from over 300,000 cases of injury taken to the London Hospital during 33 years, that tliey constitute one- seventh of all injuries, are somewhat more frequent thair sprains, and ten times more frequent than dislocations. Seat.—Gurlt, using nearly .52,000 cases from the same source, calculates that fractures of the fore-arm bones formed 18 per cent, of the whole; of the leg bones, ribs, and clavicle, each 15 to 16 per cent.; of the hand bones, 11 per cent.; liumerus, 7*8 percent. ; femur, 6 per cent.; foot bones, 2-9 per cent.; face bones, 2-4 per cent.; skull bones, 1'4 per cent.; patella, 1-3 per cent. ; scapula, 0’8 per cent. ; spinal column, 0’3 per cent. ; pelvis, 0*3 per cent.; and sternum, OT per cent. Shortly, fractures of the upper extremity are twice (52-60 per cent.) as frequent as those of the lower (25‘88 per cent.). The ti-unk bones, among which he reckons the scapula (0'86 per cent.), con- ^titutp 17'66 per cent., am] head and face bone.s only 3‘80 per cent,