AKAEllOmO BACTERIA. 46 comparatively easy matter to obtain a good double staining by first treating witli fuchsin for a considerable length of time and then de- colorising everything but the spore, in an acid, afterwards giving a contrast stain with methylene blue. (See Fig. 35.) This oi'ganism only grows anaerobically, best at the body tem- perature in pure cultures, forming spores at the end of thirty hours ; it grows much more slowly in gelatine, at a temperature of from 20° to 25° 0., forming spores at the end of a week. The addition of 2 to 3 per cent, of grape sugar to almost any of the ordinary media enables the organism to develop fairly readily along the line of puncture, only below the surface, where a feathery growth is formed, which is always more luxuriant as the bottom of the tube is ap- proached (Eig. 3). No gas is formed if the culture is pure. In peptone bouillon rendered slightly alkaline and kept in contact with an atmosphere of hydrogen, there is an abundant growth of the organism. This organism retains its virulence under cultivation only so long as it is grown under anaerobic conditions ; especially is this the case where there has been no time for spores to develop. Experiments made by inoculating pus from wounds from which patients have ac- quired tetanus may give entirely negative results in consequence of the fact that the bacilli have continued their existence under conditions unfavourable to the retention of their specific virulence. Tetanus may be j^roduced in the smaller animals by inoculation of very small particles of nearly all cultivated garden earth, by inoculation of pure anaerobic cultures of the tetanus bacillus, by the inoculation of a pure culture plus the tetanus poison or plus lactic acid or Bacillus prodigiosus, or by inoculation into a bruised wound. It is difficult to produce tetanus with a young culture, and sometimes even with an old culture from which the poison has been washed away. This is due, apparently, to the fact that the'tetanus organisms form their poisons slowly, and may be rapidly destroyed by tlie tissue cells before they have time to fonn sufficient poison to produce the nervous symptoms associated with the disease. In the cases above mentioned, the tissue cells are so occupied in removing the foreign matter introduced with the organisms, or ai-e so paralysed by the action of the lactic acid, or of the tetanus poison, that they are not able to contend on equal terms with the tetanus bacilli, which, under the favourable conditions so presented, grow rapidly, and eventually the patient succumbs. The tetanus organism being a facultative saphrophyte, can grow outside the body; it is found in the stable and in the field, so that tetanus is most common amongst those who work with horses, or on the laud, and the people most susceptible are those in whom bruised wounds with which dirt may come in contact are most common gardeners, agricultural labourers, soldiers on campaign, and youn«^ children. ^ The specific tetanus poison, which has been found in the blood and spleen of patients who have di(;d from tetanus, and hjis also