557 ATHEROMA. the fatty granules and dddris may be absorbed and leave a cicatrix- like depression in tlie vessel. The thin layer of endothelium and superficial part of the intima over a softened atheromatous patch is very liable to be ruptured ; tlie contents of the “ abscess ” are then swept away in the blood stream, the larger portions blocking up arterioles or capillaries, but owing to their non-in fective nature, not oivin" rise to any serious consequences. The deep surface of the patch” which is then exposed, forms an “ atheromatous ulcer ” ; its floor always shows fatty or calcareous change. Calcareous degeneration appears first in the form of fine granules of lime-salts j these then coalesce into flat plates of varying size, and this form has given rise to the name of laminar calcification, to distinguish it from the annular calci- fication met with in the middle coat of arteries. These plates sometimes attain a considerable size; the endothelium covering them is apt to be disintegrated and expose sometimes the whole plate, sometimes a sharp edge only. Occasion- ally, such a plate gets partly or wholly detached, leading to thrombosis or em- bolism. The causes which determine in some cases fatty change, and in others calcareous degeneration, are not known ; heredity may play some part: at any rate, some individuals appear to have a special tendency to calcareous deposit (Fig. 159). The middle coat of the artery is invaded by the cellular growth in the deeper layers of the intima, and the muscle cells undergo fatty degeneration. It has been suggested that the primary disease is atrophy of the tunica media, and that the changes in the intima are of the nature of compensatory hypertrophy, but most authorities are now agreed in considering the disease as essentially a chronic endarteritis. The outer coat of the diseased artery is the seat of a varying degree of compensatory fibroid thickening, which is greatest where the other coats of the artery have been most destroyed by the disease. It is this thickening of the outer coat which prevents rupture of the artery when an “ ulcer ” has formed. Effects.—The most constant effect of atheroma is a loss of elasticity in the artery, which entails a loss of force in the circulation, as the systole of the heart is not supplemented by the elastic recoil of the large arteries. The diseased vessel is also liable to yield under the pressure of the blood, and atheroma is therefore of great importance 159.—Laminar Calcification of the Aorta. (Middlesex Hospital Museum.)