114 ULOEEATION. above the ulcer, this area being extended downwards as the tissues around become softer, and the lymphatic circulation becomes more fully re-established. With the view of getting rid of this oedematous condition, and of improving the circulation, pressure is also a good deal employed, especially by means of indiarubber bandages ; but this does not materially hasten matters, as compared with the effects of rest and the elevated position. (2) Another very essential point in the treatment of all ulcers is to get rid of all the causes of irritation of the surface of the sore, that is to say, to get rid of irritation from movement of dressings, and to avoid the presence of any irritating fluid in contact with the surface of the sore. If antiseptic lotions be employed with the view of cleansing the sore, they should be of a weak and unirritating character, such as boracic acid solution (saturated), or weak subli- mate solutions (1 to 4,000 and 1 to 6,000). The employment of irritating solutions such as carbolic acid, especially if strong, will interfere very greatly with the healing process. ^ j • u The most important irritating substances which have to do with the extension of the ulcerative process are the products of sepsis in the discharges from the sore, and it is, therefore, one of the most essential points at the commencement of the treatment of an ulcer to remedy, as far as possible, the septic condition. In order to do this the following is the best method of procedure, and it should be carried out in all cases at the commencement of the treatment ot an ulcer and more especially at the commencement of the treatment ot a case of callous ulcer. In the first place, the skin around the ulcer for a considerable area should be thoroughly disinfected, because to disinfect the surface of the ulcer alone and leave the infected skin in the nei<^hbourhood would mean reproduction of the sepsis in a very short time. In the first instance, the skin around is thoroughly washed with soap and water, and all hairs are shaved off. ^hou a then be saturated with turpentine in order to dissolve off the tat, and then the skin is very thoroughly scrubbed with soap and 5 per cent, carbolic acid solution, or, better still, with that ^ 500th part of sublimate in solution, a nail brush being e i y with the view of removing all the loose epithelium on the surface The disinfection of the skin around a septic ulcer is a mattei ot considerable difficulty, and it is well to repeat the process on one or two days in succession. The disinfection of the surface of ^ ^ itself iJ also by no means an easy matter. The J^st method employ by Sir Josepl^Lister was to apply a solution of ^ crJains to the ounce, to the surface of the ulcer, but I think that in ordinary circumstances the most satisfactory results are obtained y the use of undiluted carbolic acid. The pain caused by this application J evS at the moment, not greater than that caused by the chloride of zilic while it very quickly passes off, as the result of the anesthetic +• ’ n of thp earbolic acid. In cases where there are prominent gi anu totions or actual small sloughs on the surface, it is well before applyrng the oaXuc acid to serape°the surface with a sharp spoon (m such a