CAUSES OF FRACTUUES. 727 bluit in these patients the bones undergo eccentric atrophy, so that sometimes even limb bones may be cut with a knife or crushed by the fingei’s. The ribs are first and chiefly affected, then the limb bones and other bones of the trunk and head. The naked eye shows the compact layer to be porous and wasted, soft and dark; organic matter is in excess, and lime is deficient. The causes of fracture, when detected, have often been insufficient. But the evidence in favour of atrophic influence is far stronger in tabetic cases, to which Weir Mitchell drew attention in 1873. Charcot in 1874 published the case of a woman who died at 61, having shown signs of tabes for 26 years. During the last 18 years she had sustained painless fractures, from slight violence, of both scapulae, the left clavicle, both bones of both fore-arms, and the left femur; spontaneous dislocation of both hips and one shoulder also occurred. All the fractures had united with mox-e or less shortening, but with an excessive amount of callus. Many cases have since been described ; they are not very rare—many fractures in tabetics being missed, owing to the fact that tliey occur before ataxy develops. One painless fracture is frequently succeeded by others, and the cause is usually disproportionate to the effect; the lower limb bones, especially the femur, are affected more commonly than those of the upper limb. Union generally, but by no means always, occurs in about the usual time, and often with excessive callus ; refracture may follow feeble union. Naked eye and microscopic examination have demonstrated in tabetic bones a simple eccentric atrophy, without sign of inflammation ; but Regnard stated, as the result of his analyses, that the proportion of organic to inorganic constituents was more than reversed (76 to 24 instead of 33 to 66), which would not be the case in a simple atrophy. It is the occurrence of this atrophy in tabes, before muscular weakness, or even before inco-ordination appears, which renders a trophic influence of the central nervous upon the osseous system so probable. (See also page 897.) (2) Fragilitas ossium.—This heading includes certain cases in which the bones are unduly fragile—in which an atrophy has been assumed, but has never been demonstrated. It is best to admit that we have no knowledge on tlie point. A good many cases are recorded, in which many fractures from ti’ifling causes have occurred in members of three or four generations of a family, the predisposing condition of bones being inherited. In other instances, this liability to fractures has appeared, without heredity, in early childhood or later. The tendency has generally lasted throughout life. As a rule, firm union has occurred in the usual time; occasionally healing has been delayed. In these cases no general disease and no other skeletal defect has been detected. Example : A boy of 13 had sus- tained fourteen fractures from slight falls and twists—of the femur, of the fore-arm, of the ulna four months later, and, again, after four months, of the right humerus, radius, and tibia; all united in 3 to 5 weeks. He subsequently sustained six other fractures. Tins boy’s mother had sustained five fractures of the left, and one of the ri«-ht