149 PHAGEDENA. diseases taking place, and must therefore be particularly careful to disinfect the wound thoroughly in the first instance. Once the nature of the disease is recognised, the only chance of saving the natient is by immediate amputation far above the gangrenous part; but even at a very early period the chance of saving the patient is very small, only about five per cent, recovering. In amputating, the very greatest care must be taken thoroughly to disinf^t the skin aromid, so as to get rid of any organisms which may be pre- sent on the skin, and to avoid soding the amputation ^ound with the discharge from the gangrenous part, hence it should be well wi-apped up with antiseptic cloths wrung out of strong antiseptic solutions, and this is best done by an assistant, who will afterwa,rds take no part in the operation. The greatest care must be taken not to allow any of the discharge from the wound to run into the part which is being operated on. , t (b) Pliagedaina.—The second form of specific gangrene which 1 need describe is that known as phagedsena, which again is a disease practically never seen nowadays, but formerly extremely common. As I have not myself seen a case, I can only give a very short description from published records. The disease is undoubtedly a parasitic affection, but the nature of the organisms is un- known. It essentially consists in the production in the wound m the first instance of a pseudo-membranous materia,!, beneath which the tissues ulcerate or become gangrenous. The incubation period varies from eight hours to three or four days, and preceding the development of the affection the patient complains of pain in the wound, which becomes swollen, its surface dry, the edges pale, and the granulations of a greyish colour, with commencing formation of a false membrane. The fully-developed disease is generally described under two forms—namely, an ulcerative and a gangrenous form. In the ulcerative form a pulpy membrane appears on the surface of the wound, and beneath this cup-like losses of substance occur, and subsequently there is rapid ulceration spreading from the part, the surface of the ulcer being covered with a velvety, greyish, foetid material. In the other form the disease spreads with great rapidity, and the patient dies in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Here the wound in the first instance becomes covered, with a thicker membrane, which is dark in colour and very pulpy, and which rapidly extends in the planes of the cellular tissue radiating from the wound, leading to rapid sloughing of the skin and muscles, etc., and not uncommonly of vessels, the patient in that case being killed by profuse hsemorrhage. Preceding the development of the affection the patient suffers from malaise. He is in a state of de- pression, is sleepless, and has nausea; and as the disease develops he has fever, diarrhoea, delirium, and very soon passes into a typhoid condition. The treatment of phagedaina is, of course, in the first instance the prophylactic treatment, which essentially consists in strict