ACUTE ABSCESS. 85 points with regard to the anatomical and physiological characters of the peritoneum come into play in explaining this fact; to mention one, the peritoneum is a membrane which absorbs fluids with the very f^reatest rapidity, and in this way deprives bacteria of the necessary pabulum, and brings them into immediate contact with active cells, either epithelial or plasma cells. As to the mode in which these micro-organisms reach the part and set up the abscesses, they must come either from the blood— in which case they have entered from some mucous or cutaneous surface which is in an unhealthy condition—or they may come from the lymphatic vessels, having reached them through some lesion of the surface epithelium; or they may have penetrated directly from the skin through ducts, as not uncommonly happens in cases of mammary abscess, where the organisms spread up the milk ducts, reach the acini, and then pass into the tissues and set up acute in- flammation. These pyogenic organisms are constantly present on the surfaces of the body, both on the skin, especially in regions where moisture is present and the sebaceous glands are large, and on mucous membranes; and thus, when a lesion occurs in these parts, or when they are weakened from some cause, the organisms can get into the blood or the lymphatic vessels (page 11). Symptoms of acute abscess.—As regards the local symptoms of acute suppuration, we meet with the four cardinal signs of in- flammation which have been previously considex’ed (page 63), namely, redness, heat, swelling, and pain; and, indeed, the description there given refers more especially to inflammation which is going on to suppuration, and need not, therefore, be repeated here. It will be noted that the centre of the inflammatory swelling is desci'ibed as hard and brawny, while the surrounding parts are soft and cedema- toiis (page 64). As time goes on and suppuration occurs, the centre of the brawny swelling begins to soften, till by-and-by the presence of fluid can be distinctly made out. The presence of fluid in an inflammatory or other swellmg may be determined in various ways. In the first instance, it may be ascertained by the sense of fluctuation : that is to say, by the sensa- tion felt by the fingers when a wave of fluid is set in motion by the hand at some other part of the swelling. Uixless the abscess is very near the surface of the skin, it is not always easy at the early stage of an abscess to make out this sensation of fluctuation, on account of the great pain which the firm pressure required in these circum- stances will cause to the patient. Hence it is not uncommon for fluctuation to be missed although pus is actually present; on the other hand, it is not unusual for the opposite mistake to be made, and the presence of fluctuation asserted when an abscess is not present. In order to ascertain the presence of fluctuation, a finger or fingers of one hand are placed on one side of the suspected part, and are kept at i-est and exercising a certain amount of pressure, while with the other hand pressure is made on the swelling as far distant as po.ssible fi’om that which is placed to receive the sensation.