SiJGONDAuy tf.mtoiiiiitAGiii. Tlie blood pressure may be increased by plethora, !>y cardiac hypertrophy, by chronic renal disease, *or by excited action of the heal-t from mental or physical stimulation. The rapid and perfect repair of an artery is impeded by advanced disease of the vessel, by cachexia, by hiemoplulia, by adjacent in- flammation, by the proximity of a large branch of the artery through which blood continues to flow, and, in the case of punctured wound or incomplete division of an artery, by the forcible stream of blood flowing through the vessel. The weakening of the arterial wall is caused by division of any of its coats; and when it is borne in mind how tliin tlie outer coat of an artery—particularly of some arteries—is, and how great a proportion of the total thickness of an artery is due to the inner and middle coats, it is apparent that a ligature or other hsemostatic agent which severs the inner coats does thereby greatly lessen the strength of the artery and its power to withstand the pressure of the blood. (See page 531.) We may repeat here that the physiological occlusion of such an artery as the ductus arteriosus is effected by Nature without the severance of any part of its walls, and without any danger whatever of secondary haemorrhage. That severance of part of the thickness of an artery should facilitate, and render quicker and safer the repair of the vessel, is contrary to all we know of the repair of other parts and tissues. Nowhere does increase of an injury pro- mote its repair. It must be remembered that while we have spoken of two con- ditions leading to secondary haemorrhage, and discussed them sepa- rately, they may, and often do, co-exist. Septic arteiitis may destroy the end of a divided vessel, but above it a plastic process may obliterate the vessel, and save the patient from haemorrhage when a septic ligature separates and the end of the vessel sloughs off. On the other hand, the influence of the inflammatory process may be seen in such a delay of the reparative process in the artery beyond, that when the ligature separates, the soft reparative material yields before the blood pressure and haemorrhage occurs. In other cases the septic inflammation ft so intense that it arrests all efforts at repair and the artery is directly ulcerated into. One or two other special causes must be noticed. Thus the knot of a ligature, if very hard and tied firmly, may quickly ulcerate through the thin outer coat of the artery, and open up the vessel before the organisation of the thrombus has advanced far enough to enable it to withstand the force of the circulation. For this reason a flat ligature is preferred by many surgeons, and in any case a supple thread. [See Fig. 152.) In tying an artery in its continuity, a branch may be wounded just below the seat of ligature. At the time no Inemorrhage occurs, because the vessel is empty, but gradually, as the anastomotic circu- lation becomes more vigorous, the tension rises in the wounded vessel until the organising thrombus in it is displaced or torn through, and secondary hiEmon’ha..ge occurs. Premature softening of a ligature