INJURIES OF VESSELS IN FRACTURES. 783 involved in the fracture—perhaps by a fissure extending a long distance through the bone. Septic osteomyelitis and septic arthritis are extremely grave com- plications, quite likely to be associated with pyaemia or septicaemia. Our chief hope lies in the most perfect drainage, not only of the fracture and fissure, but also of the joint; continuous irrigation maj be of much value. If the articular end of a bone has been fractured, and the state of the patient permit it, resection of the joint may be performed— for displaced and, perhaps, necrosed fragments are mechanical irri- tants, and septic discharge readily bags among them; but, in many cases, a careful consideration of the condition of the part, and of the patient’s strength, will incline the surgeon to amputate. The occurrence of pyaemia, septicaemia, or of acute spreading traumatic gangrene, must be met by high amputation; acute tetanus is probably best treated similarly. Erysipelas, by producing exhaus- tion by fever, by causing dififuse suppuration and slougliing of con- nective tissue and skin, perhaps by inducing suppuration of a joint over which it passes, may be a very serious addition to the patient’s ills. Rarely secondaiy haemorrhage occurs, and must be treated by ligature of the bleeding point if possible. Even in a sloughy wound, with our perfect means of haemostasis, it is possible to follow up a bleeding vessel until a ligature will hold; but amputation will be preferred if the limb be much damaged, or if the ligature would seriously endanger the blood supply of the part beyond. Necrosis, of greater or less extent, is the rule in suppurating cases; separation of the sequestra may be very slow; even repeated well-conducted operations may fail to find all, and those left may cause so much trouble in the way of abscesses, prolonged suppura- tion, fever, and albuminoid disease, of matting and wasting of muscles, that the limb has, after a long struggle, to be sacrificed. Vicious union and pseudarthrosis are unduly frequent results of compound fractures. INJURIES OF VESSELS AND NERVES IN FRACTURE. Wounds of arteries.—Recognisable injuries of considerable vessels are rare complications of fractures; yet, lai’ge arteries and veins are liable to injuries in both simple and compound fractures. In the latter, more or less of the blood from any bleeding vessel escapes externally, and the presence of a wound does away with any hesitation one may feel in simple cases when the question of ligature arises; otherwise—putting sepsis aside—the results of injuries of vessels in the two classes may be described together. These lesions are three to four times more common in the lower than in the upper limb, owing to the greater frequency of comminution and laceration in the lower extremity, to the close relation of the femoral artery to the femur in its lower third, and of both the tibial vessels to the tibia—the anterior being sunk O