AKELIH JOINT DISEASE. 1117 As a rule, the bones and synovial membrane are early involved in the same disease. The tfeatiiieiit, will consist, in the first place, of rest for the joint. This may often be provided for without condemning the patient to inactivity, by either employing a Thomas’s knee splint or by supporting the knee in the flexed position in a bucket and wooden pin, upon which the patient can walk without using the ankle. This joint also lends itself very well to the treatment by passive hyperse- mia (Bier, page 1050), the constricting bandages being easily controlled on the part. It may also be treated by the injection of iodoform and glycerine, either alone or combined with the last procedure. These measures are often sufficient to arrest the disease in its earliest stages if carried out effectually and for long enough. But where, in spite of all constitutional and local treatment, the pi’ocess is advancing, it becomes a question whether the foot ought to be amputated, or an endeavour be made to save it by some form of excision. Of course, where the latter is thought feasible, it ought to be tried, but, it must be confessed, that until quite recently excision, partial or complete, of the ankle joint has not proved a very satisfactory procedure. The chief reason for this is to be found in the difficulty of eradicating the whole of the diseased tissue from the joint. Here the astra- galus has a disproportionately large articular surface, which extends over its lateral aspects nearly down to its articulation with the os calc is on the one hand, and to the scaphoid on the other. The synovial pouches ex- tend even beyond the cartilagi- nous borders. Any disease, then, starting either under the encrusting cartilage or in the synovial membrane is very apt to advance to the other articulations, and from them to the adjacent bones. Under these conditions, mere removal of the articular disease of the ankle joint would be inade- quate, the residue in the neighbouring articulations being caitable or perpetuating the process indefinitely. ^ Various formal excisions have, however, been formulated for the ankle joint. But in my opinion, here everything that, can be done by a formal excision can be achieved by the free opening of the joint by longitudinal incisions at either side and behind, and the removal through these of all evidently diseased Fig. 459.--SpUnt for filing the Ankle with tlexible iCod conoectiug Leg aud Foot Pieces.