92- SUPPUllATION. stage this is seldom the case, the tissues being, as I have just said, infiltrated with the pus over an extensive area. Fre.sh patches of cellulitis also not uncommonly appear along the course of the lymphatic vessels, probably because the organisms have blocked the lymphatic vessel in some part of its course, and spread into the tissues around, and set up the disease afresh. If the case be left to itself and the patient lives, openings by-and-by form in various ])arts over the inflamed area, from which pus and shreds of tissue, portions of muscles, tendons, etc., ultimately escape. At the same time, the patient suffers from very severe constitu- tional symptoms. At the early stage the disease generally begins ■with a rigor and high temperature, and the temj)erature in tliis stage often runs up very rapidly to or 105° Fahr. Very soon, as the disease advances, the patient passes into the asthenic or typhoid condition previously described; his pulse becomes very rapid and weak, and often irregular, his temperature remains high and oscillating, his tongue becomes brown and dry, his face flushed, and he has delirium of a low muttering character (page 65). In most cases, if the disease cannot be checked, the condition ends in death in a very short time, or is vei-y apt to lead to pyaemia (Art. YlII.). The symptoms are gravest where the organisms have, in the first instance, gained admission to serous spaces, such as tendon sheaths, bursae, etc., and in most cases this does actually occur, because as a rule this affection commences with scratches or cuts about the arm or fingers. Apart from the immediate gravity of the condition, even if the patient recover, this affection generally leaves very serious results behind, more especially in the case of the arm: results such as the matting together of muscles, the loss of tendons, adhesions between tendons and their sheaths, etc., which lead to loss of movement oi the fingers and hand. ^ Treatment of diffuse cellulitis.—The treatment of difluse cellulitis must be from the very first of the most vigoijous nature; and as regards the constitutional treatment, it consists in sup- porting the strength of the patient, free administration of stimu- lants, °the use of quinine in large doses, and also of antipyretics with a view of keeping the temperature down, etc. Locally, the proper treatment at the very earliest period is to make free in- cisions into the inflamed area, with the view of promoting the escape of the fluids and sloughs, so that there shall be less absorption of the poison. These incisions must be extremely free, and, m fact, the whole brawny tissue should be thoroughly laid open from end to end and any recesses from which pus can be squeezed should be opened up. The incisions in these cases cannot be too free, lor it any recesses escape inspection and free opening, the disease is certain to spread from them. After having thoroughly laid open the whole area of the disease, it is well, I think, in the first instance, to remove the pus and blood as completely as possible, and then to sponge the whole sui-face with undiluted carbolic acid. I have in seveia