DISLOCATIONS. 958 cartilage advance as far as the summit of the eminentia articalans. The posterior hhres of the lateral and capsular ligaments check further progress. Sudden muscular action, especially of the external pterygoid, may now dislocate the jaw~; and this accident occurs in the acts of yawning, vomiting, or bawling with the mouth widely open. It is also occasioned by violence, as a blow from a fist on the chin when the mouth is open, the action of a gag in mouth operar tions, and the like. Morbid anatomy.—As a rule, there is no great laceration of ligaments. The displaced condyle and cartilage are drawn upwards by the masseter and pterygoid muscles', and lodged under the zygoma in front of the eminentia (Fig. 37 3). It has been stated that the coronoid pi’ocess becomes hitched asainst the back of the O , , malar bone; but it is questionable if the pro- cess is sufficiently long to become thus 'fixed, unless the muscles should be much lacerated. The inter-articul^ cartilage is—not ihvariably_jlis- placed with the bone. This accident is mo.st common in women about the middle period of life, and is nearly always bilateral. The displace- ment forwards is the Fig. 373.—Position of Bones in Dislocation of Lower Jaw. only known dislocation j but if fracture occur, displacements outwards and also backwards have been related, and the head of the bone has even been driven into the auditory canal. Symptoms.—In the forward dislocation the mouth is__wjdgly jpened, the chin and lower incisor teeth are advanced,The sides of theTace are elongated, and there is a marked hollow_in the natural position of the condyle, which can be felt anterior to it. ihe displaced coronoid may be felt by examining through the mouth The chin is fixed, and cannot be elevated. The masseters and temp^als are spasmodically contracted, and their contour is evident. There is much pain from pressure on the auriculo-temporal nerve, articulation and deglutition are well nigh impossible, and the saliva drips copiously from the open mouth (Fig. 374). In unilateral dislocation the symptoms are less marked, and the accident may be overlooked. The mouth is partially opened and less