SILICATE ANE STARCH SPLINTS. 773 Silicate splints.—Waterglass or silicate of soda has the advantage of heing much lighter than plaster, hut it takes twenty-four hours to hardenr The limb is similarly prepared. Two to four thicknesses of open-wove bandages soaked in a solution of silicate of soda are used in the way above described for plaster of Paris. Starch splints.—The limb is surrounded with some antiseptic wool, I in. thick by 4 to 5 in. Avicle, made into rollers and applied like an ordinary bandage. Outside this come splints of bookbinder’s mill- board, cut of suitable shape, well soaked in hot water, thinned all round the edge by rubbing away with the finger the outer surface for an inch or so, and finally saturated with starch ; a large iron tray takes most splints, but a bath is needed for those reaching from hip to foot. Thus prepared, the splints are placed in position and held by bits of bandage, which are removed as the starched bandage ap- proaches them. Stout unbleached calico bandages are now pretty firmly apphed after the following preparation :—They are soaked in water, wrung dry, drawn through hot starch, and then rolled up. It is a common practice to apply the bandage dry, whilst an assistant rubs in hot starch j the result is less perfect. Three or four thicknesses are generally used for the lower limb. The splint takes forty-eight hours or more to dry; it is fairly light and rigid ; it maintains uniform elastic pressure on a part; it can be cut down, removed, and reapphed, wool lining being added should the part have shrunk, or some of the edge being cut away. Eyelets can be inserted if it is desirable to lace the splint. In the hands of those who know how to use it, plaster of Paris is by far the most valuable of these three splints; its weight is the chief objection to it, and this may be greatly reduced by the use of light tin, trellis wire, or veneer strips. Some employ plaster in the treatment of fractures from the first, using only a light splint— easily removed should swelHng require it, and easily reapplied. But the more usual practice in England is to wait until the early swelling has subsided, and until the tendency to shortening has disappeared, then to apply one or other of the above splints, and leave it on until union may be expected to have occurred. It has been charged against this treatment by Lucas-Championni^re and others, that the long absolute rest thus enforced is responsible for the Avasted and oedematous condition of the limbs, and for the painful adhesions Avhich have to be dealt Avith on removal of the splint. Tliis question will be again referred to under “massage” (page 774). Other ap>p>aratus.—Splints are not the only apparatus employed in the treatment of fractures. In some no apparatus is of service, in otliers a sling or a few bits of strapping give such rest and contact to the fragments as is possible; in others, again, suitable position upon cushions or upon an inclined plane suffices ; Avhilst still others benefit by the position given by a Salter’s cradle or some other form of SAving. Lastly, there are cases of simple fracture, in Avhich the results of ordinary treatment being unsatisfactory, it is justifiable to inflict an aseptic wound for the purpose of directly acting on tlic fragments,