308 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO MICROBIO INFECTION. It will be noted that (b) is more prolonged than (a), and also that the strongest injection—ie. of material dried only three days— is reached on the seventh day, while in (a) it is not administered until the ninth. The inoculations are made alternately in the riglit and left flanks, and for the most part, patients complain of notliing during the treatment. In some cases a feeling of fatigue, enervation, and somnolence have been observed. Local inflammation does not occur at the seat of injection, but great care is taken by control cultures to make sure that each tube of material is pure. The treatment is indicated in the case of any person bitten by a rabid animal; the main element of success being prompt resort to the method, the most frequent source of failure having been delay in its adoption. In young patients, especially those bitten about the head and face, or in cases of wolf or cat bite, early commence- ment of treatment is especially indicated. Bearing in mind the occasional very early appearance of symptoms, it is necessary for a favourable prognosis that inoculations should be commenced before the sixth day after the bite. Eefeeences. Pasteur; “ Traitement delaEage.” Paris, 1886. And “ Annales de I’lnstitut.” Eoux: Transactions of tlie Seventh International Congress of Hygiene and Demography, 1892, vol. iii p. 8. Eeport of Committee to Local Government Board, June, 1887. Horsley : Transactions of the Epidemiological Society. New Series. Vol. iii., 1888, p. 70. Pleming: “ Propagation and Prevention of Eahies,” Transactions of the Inter- national Congress of Hygiene and Demography, 1892, vol. iii. p. 16. VI. GLANDERS. .Etiology.—This is a disease dependent on a specific organism (^Bacillus mallei), occurring primarily in the horse, but transmissible to other animals and to man. It is also known as Equinia, or, when chronic, as Farcy. Glanders is met with both in hot and cold climates, but is fortu- nately not readily acquired by man. Asses, mules, and goats contract the disease, and it is inoculable in guineapigs and rabbits. In some animals local sores only result from inoculation; this is usually the case in dogs. Oxen and swine are insusceptible to the disease. Both the acute and chronic (farcy) forms are common in the horse, but acute glanders is more frequent in man. In horses the chronic form is not always easy of recognition; hence, the disease may be overlooked either accidentally or with intent, and the animal worked for years. The bacillus of glanders much resembles that of tuberculosis in general appearance; it is, however, somewhat shorter and thicker, the ends more or less rounded, and indications of spore formation have been noted in it (page 35). It is not particularly resistant to heat, desiccation, or antiseptics, but experience has shown that the virus may remain active for months in infected stables; hence, special care is needed in disinfection. It is cultivable artifici- ally on blood serum, agar-agar, or potato, and in the latter case