667 lymphangitis. or part of the limb. Suppuration in these parts extemls widely and leads to extensive loss of tissue, and the subsidence ol inflammation is followed by an obstinate and chronic oedema. The glands are very early affected, as shown by dull aching pain, followed by acute tenLrness even before there are the above signs of lymphangitis. They are at first swollen and movable in the surrounding tissue, and may remain so for some time after the inflammation has subsided in the vessels, when they gradually resume their normal conditiom But often suiipuration occurs in them, and this is marked by in- creasincr pain, tenderness, and throbbing, by continued and often excessive pyrexia with rigors, while the gland enlarges and the cellular tissue around becomes inflamed, and signs of suppuration are soon evident. The abscess thus formed may attain a large size, but the glands are not affected beyond the axillary or inguinal regions. The constitutional symptoms vary with the acuteness of the iirocess. The fever, tlie superficial redness, the pain in the glands may pass off in a few hours; but, on the other hand, they may be followed by rigors, and all the evidences of septicamiia or pytemia. When the pain in the glands persists even after all redness of the strife has disappeared, suppuration generally occurs at a shorter or longer interval. Tveatiiieiit.—In dealing "witli this affection, the nidus from which the poison has been absorbed must be sought. If this be an open wound, it must be cleansed thoroughly and washed with strong solutions of perchloride of mercury j if covered with a scab, the crust or epithelium must be removed. Should there be no perceptible wound, an incision into the red and throbbing areola must be made, and lotions of carbolic acid or perchloride of mercury applied. Warmth is the greatest alleviator of pain, and much relief is given by soaking the whole limb in hot boracic baths, and by warm boracic fomentations along the whole course of the infiamed lymphatics. A mercurial purge, followed by salines, should be administered, and the limb raised throughout its whole length. Quinine should be given in large doses from the first onset of pyrexia, and opiates if the pain be excessive. To subdue the swelling of the glands, nothing is so effectual as warmth, which may be applied in the form of hot lead and opium lotions or boracic fomentations; and this also has the effect of encouraging the pus, if it has formed, to come to the surface, and as soon as fiuctuation can be detected, free incision and drainage give instant relief, the wound being dressed with strict antiseptic details. The oedema which occurs with infiammation of the superficial lymphatics will gradually subside as the lymph finds its way through its former channels, or when an anastomosis is established through the deeper set of vessels; but when the latter set of lymphatics are blocked or destroyed, the oedema is more severe, and often permanent. Frequent bathing in hot water, massage, and the application of elastic bandages are means by which this may be diminished, or even cured.