GANGRENE. 130 toe ia completely dead (Fig. 24). During that time the patient complains much of pain, not only in the parts which are living, but also in the parts which are apparently dead, the cause of this being in the main that the nerves, especially the axis cylinders, are the last structures to die. This pain leads to loss of sleep and the gradual exhaustion of the patient. In the early stage the general condition of the patient is usually good, but the pain keeps him awake, so that he soon becomes pulled down, his pulse becomes feeble, and he often dies of exhaustion. Moist gangrene, on the other hand, progresses much more rapidly, and there is not time for the liquids in the part which dies to evaporate. The consequence is that putrefaction takes place in the dead tissue, and the chief symptoms are dependent on this putrefactive process. Bullse form early on the surface, and contain a dark fluid which has a very foul smell. By-and-by the epidermis peels off, and a moist, foul-smelling surface is left behind. The part is first reddish, and then passes through the various stages of green to black. It also becomes very much swollen, due to the presence in the tissues of gases produced as the result of this putrefactive process. On placing the hand over the pngrenous part and press- ing on it, one very often gets the sensation of crepitation from the gases contained in the interstices of the tissue bubbling through the fluid, and the soft parts soon become liquid and separate from the bone as a slimy, foul-smeUing, dark mass. Accompanying these local appearances, the patient suffers from absorption of the poison- ous products, and has fever, sometimes very acute, and of the asthenic type, and he may die of the septic absorption or of exhaustion from the continuance of the process. The line of separation.—In both cases when the gangrenous process has come to an end, the part which is dead becomes separated from that which is alive. This takes place as the result of inflam- mation occurring in the living tissues at the point where the dead and living parts join. The dead part acts as an irritant on the living tissues in the vicinity, and leads to the occurrence of mflam- mation, which goes on to the stage of granulation and ^tmately of suppuration, so that the dead tissues, which in the first instance were directly continuous with the Hving, become separated from it by a layer of granulation tissue, and subsequently become quite loose from the formation in this granulation tissue of pus. Hence there is at the point of junction of the living and dead tissue an area of redness over the living tissues, which become swoUen and present the various signs of acute inflammation—of vaiymg degree according to circumstances—and very soon a furrow forms between the dead and living parts which contains pus. . In the case of dry gangrene it is not at all uncommon for t is line of separation to commence at a comparatively early perio , then the tissues which were previously aUve on the proximal side of tlie furrow begin to die, and a fresh line of separation again forms higher up. This process may be repeated several times, so