0AUS1<J8 of FEAGTUnFS. 729 Upper limb, especially the clavicle, are the coinnioiiest seats. A history of syphilis, of bone pains preceding the fracture, of a periosteal swelling—though, according to Chiari, a central gumma may give no superficial sign of its presence—the existence of signs of syphilis, ami the satisfactory results of antisyphilitic treat- ment, constitute the evidence upon which a diagnosis may be made. Gummatous infiltration of shafts of long bones near to, but not in- volving the epiphyses, may occur in infants the subjects of congenital syphilis, and may lead to fracture before, during, or after birth. (4) Rickets is a very important predisponent to fracture in children. The practical result of the disease is that the material laid down by the periosteum and epiphysial cartilage undergoes true ossification irregularly or not at all; it forms a relatively weak, friable, wide-meshed, calcified tissue (spongioid) which encases the original well-formed bone of the shaft. The latter, however, undergoes progressive absorption in the formation of the medullary canal, and tlius the bone loses its firmest portion. During the height of the disease, when the bones contain the largest proportion of this soft material, greenstick fractures are commoner than are complete, and arise from slight violence; but in the early stage and stage of recovery, when the proportion of well-formed bone is considerable, tlie fractures occurring are said to be more frequently complete. After recovery from rickets the bones are often unduly dense and strong, though small. According to Guersant, rickets is present in one-third of all fractures seen at the Hdpital des Enfants Malades in Paris; and many cases of infraction are never taken to a hospital. Multiple fractures are not uncommon; sometimes several occur in one bone, which may ultimately be greatly deformed. Union is delayed, and may not occur at all during the height of the disease; 'usually it is effected slowly, and with the formation of a large callus tumour, chiefly in the concavity. The quality of the callus is that of the bone of the same period. [See page 363.) (5) Osteomalacia affects only adults and, typically at all events, only women—especially multiparse. It is characterised by decal- cification of bone and subsequent absorption of the animal basis by the hypertrophying marrow. The bones become thin-walled shells full of red marrow ; indeed, all bone may disappear, and only the periosteum remain around the marrow. The change usually spreads more or less Avidely over the skeleton from the pelvic bones, bo long as crisp bone remains, fractures are common and unite well; later, all kinds of bendings result. The pelvis, ribs, and limb bones are chiefly affected. (^See page 898.) ((6) New growths.—Of simple growths, only chondromata have given rise to fracture. They are less commonly central than sub- periosteal, but the central are more likely to lead to fracture. Thus, Gross found two fractures among ten central chondromata, but only three fractures among sixty-three subperiosteal growths. VerA’ rarely, central chondromata seem to undei-go cystic degeneration.