136 OANOBENE. the inriammation is a very acute one, and goes on rapidly to the formation of pus, and is spoken of as acute suppurative periostitis or osteomyelitis. In these circumstances, the exudation from the vessels, both of fluid and of cells, is very marked, and if the vessels be contained in rigid canals in the bone, the exuded material fills up the canals and compresses the vessels that are running through them. Hence, as the result of acute suppurative periostitis or osteomyelitis, the vessels of the bone over a very considerable area are compressed, while at the same time the periosteum is detached from the surface of the bone by the exudation, and the vessels passing to it from the periosteum are torn across or blocked. Thus a large area of bone may become entirely deprived of circula.- tion and die. The condition of acute necrosis is described in its proper place. (Art. XXX.) In the skin, also, acute inflammation affecting the dermis, especially when commencing in connection with the hair follicles, is very apt to lead to death of portions of the skin for the same reasons as in the case of bone, and we have the condition known as boil, where there is an acute inflammation of the dermis, and death of the portion forming the core of the boil; or as in the case of carbuncle, where this inflammation is much more extensive, and where we have either one large slough of the dermis or a number of small ones, in fact, a congeries of boils. That the formation of the slough in boil and carbuncle is essentially due to the density of the tissue in which the inflammation is occurring, and not to destruction of it by poisons secreted by the micro-organisms, is evidenced by the fact that in young children, where the skin is qmte thin, inflammation starting in the same parts, which in adults would lead to the formation of a boil, causes in them small abscesses without any sloughing of the tissue. Bods and carbuncles are discussed in Art. XXVIII., in connection with Diseases of the Skin. {d) Crangrene due to lieat or cold.—A fourth great cause of direct gangrene is the effect of heat and cold. Burns and scalds are dealt with in a separate section (Art. XII.), and I need therefore only refer to the effects of cold in the production of gangrene. Where cold produces gangrene, the parts affected are generally those most distant from the heart, more especially the toes (the great toe in par- ticular), the fingers, the nose, and the ears ; and in addition the people generally attacked are those who are in a weakly condition, either aged people, or infants, or drunkards. In the causation of gangrene as the result of cold, wet cold is worse than dry cold, and in fact a great degree of dry cold can be well borne provided there be no wind, but if there be wind playing on the part, even although the temperature is only a little below freezing, we may have all the troubles characteristic of frost-bite. The first effect of cold is to cause contraction of the blood-vessels and slowing of the circulation, so that we have the well-known blueness of the parts which are exposed to cold. This contraction of the blood-vessels may go on to their complete obliteration, and