787 GANGRENE AFTER FRACTURE. blood supply to parts beyond, it may increase and tend to burst, or suppuration may occur in the tissues round about it. It should be treated in these circumstances by free incision, whilst the circulation is controlled, turning out of blood and clots and double ligature of the supplying vessel. But should it not be a source of dangei’, the fracture should be treated, and, during the necessary rest, the htematoma may consolidate. Should it not do so, central digital compression of the main artery may be tried, with fair hope of success. This failing, the operation last mentioned should be carried out after union of the fracture is complete. Ligature of the main trunk at a point of election has succeeded, but the danger of gangrene is probably greater than in cases of true aneurysm; the cure of the htematoma is doubtful; there is in these cases no disease, but only an injury of the artery, and we can now so thoroughly control the circulation in most parts as to be able to perform deliberately operations which formerly were often matters of desperate haste. Secondary hcemorrhage from a compound fracture wliich is not septic is almost as rare as late deep bleeding in a simple fracture. The sloughy condition of the wound constitutes the special difficulty in finding the bleeding point, and in getting a ligature to hold; this is best met by passing a probe along the vessel, and dissecting along it till a sound spot is reached. If the limb be already seriously damaged, this complication will raise the question whether it is worth preserving. Venous hcematoma should be treated on the same lines as the arterial form when it threatens mischief, though it must be admitted that the difficulty in dealing with one from the subclavian vein would be great. Compression by a splinter of the clavicle could certainly be directly dealt with. Gangrene after fracture.—It will be convenient to summarise what has been said of gangrene in connection with fractures. Gangrene may result (1) from the original injury to soft parts ; (2) from constriction and compression of the limb by bandages ancl splints ; (3) from infiammation; (4) from injuries to large vessels. (1) It is not always possible to tell whether a part will recover, and it is right to give it the chance of doing so; in such a case the patient or his friends should be told the state of matters. (2) The application of a bandage directly to the limb, or of some apparatus constricting the limb circularly, especially a plaster splint, either too tightly at first, or so that it becomes too tight owing to early swelling of the part, has been a frequent source of gangrene, especially of the fore-arm. So, too, has flexion at the elbow ajter the application of a bandage to the limb. The use of firm circular pressure round the upper part of a limb without giving support to the distal part might act as a cause. In these cases the surgeon would be to blame, first for the errors in treatment, and secondly for neglecting to watch for or failing to perceive the signs of impaired circulation in the digits.