647 CAROTID ANEURYSM. tinnitus, and giddiness j and if softening occurs, hemiplegia ensues, and tliere may 1)6 convulsions, and death often results. Pulmonary congestion is another frecjuont complication and it is liable to run on to hypostatic pneumonia. The interference with the circulation in the brain and medulla caused by the opei-ation is the probable explanation of this occurrence. It i.s noteworthy that the effects of sudden closure of the carotid artery are much more grave than when the obstruction is gradual. A patient has even lived for some time after gradual obstruction of both carotid and both vertebral arteries. Simultaneous ligature of both carotids is always fatal from cerebral anaemia and coma, but if an interval of two or three weeks is left between the ligature of the two vessels, the danger of cerebral disease is not greater than if one only is tied. Suppuration around the sac of the aneurysm may follow ligature of the artery, either from the sudden solidification of the tumour, or, more probably, from wound infection. The pus should be evacuated by an early free incision, and if hasmorrhage occurs the sac must be laid open and the ends of the artery tied. Manipulation or the in- troduction of foreign bodies shordd never be practised in carotid aneurysm on account of the great danger of cerebral embolism. Aneurysm of the internal carotid artery in the neck is rare ; it has a great tendency to bulge into the pharynx and even to simulate an abscess in the tonsil. It should be treated by digital compression or Ligature of the common carotid artery. Aneurysm of the external cai-otid artery may, by pres- sure upon the hypoglossal nerve, cause paralysis of the same side of the tongue. If digital compression of the common carotid artery is not successful, a ligature may be placed upon the external carotid artery below the aneurysm, and only if the tumour arises too low for this to be possible should the common carotid artery be tied. Recurrent pulsation is veiy apt to occur, owing to the free anastomoses of the many branches arising close together from the artery. For this, if rest and careful direct pressure fail, the branches communicating with the aneurysm should be tied. If the tuniour is small, or of moderate size, its excision may be undertaken at first, instead of the proximal ligature. Aneurysmal varix in the iiech is usually the result of sabre cuts and stabs, in which the weapon has passed through a vein into an artery. A case is recorded, however, in which a communication between the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein arose spontaneously. The vessels involved may be, in order of frequency: (1) The common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein ; (2) the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein ; (3) the common carotid artery and tlie subclavian vein; and (4) the extei'nal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. Immediately after the injury there is a great effusion of blood m tlie cellular tissue of the whole side of tlie neck, and this may be so great as to threaten asphyxia; wlien this is absorbed, the