INNOCENGY AND MALIGNANCY. 4.4.7 by small losses of blood frequently repeated, and also by the per- sistent drainage of albuminous fluid from the tumour. It mi"ht appear from the facts of this case that the destructive efl'ects of malignant tumours may in a large measure depend on environment, but opportunities will be taken in the course of this Article to show that malignancy depends entirely on the character of the tumour; its destructive effects may be enhanced by its situation, but not always, for a lympho-sarcoma of the mediastinum or testis may be more rapidly fatal than a sarcoma of the ceiebium. The baneful effects of structure as compared with even dan- gerous environment is illustrated by the skull (Fig. 96), shown in anterior view, minus its vault and mandible. A large tumour composed of hyaline cartilage tills the nasal fossse and occupies each orbit so as to dislocate the eyeballs outwards; it overtills each p.i'it.rnTn and expands the nasal bones; processes of the tumour invade the spheno-maxillaiy fossse, and a large mound of cartilage projects into the anterior fossa of the cranium, and, in all probability, during life, came in contact with the cranial vault. The very remarkable ex- panding and disruptive effects of the tumour upon the facial bones are well displayed in the drawing; the maxillas are so pushed outwards as to cause the incisor teeth to cross each other. The patient was under the care of Caesar Hawkins in 1848, the tumour had been noticed two years previously. In 1849 she left the hospital, and though blind, “her health was little disturbed, she was calm and composed.” A portrait of her appearance in 1850 is preserved in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital. She survived her discharge from the hospital three years. “ Up to the period of her death she had no loss of intellect, and it is believed no paralysis.” An examination of the specimen indicates that the tumour sprang from the mesethmoid (pei-pendicular plate). It is perfectly encapsuled, and required six years to encompass the death of the woman, notwithstanding its dangerous environment, a period twelve times longer than was re- quisite in the case of rectal cancer (Fig. 95). The fatal effect in the case of the chondroma was due to the pressure of the tumour on the brain, for had the growth attacked a phalanx or a metacarpal bone it would not have shortened the patient’s life. Although the majority of malignant tumours are non-encapsuled and infiltrate adjacent tissues, a few are furnished with very distinct capsules ; this is the case with some sarcomata, especially the variety known as myosarcomata occasionally met with in the kidneys of infants. Many of these have a perfect capsule ; they are neverthe- less very malignant and cause death usually within a year from the time they assume such a size as to become clinically recognisable. Innocent tumours nearly always possess a distinct capsule, which completely isolates them from surro\inding structures, and the few species which are diSuse differ very materially from non-encapsuled malignant tumours in being non-intiltrating. The distinction between a diffuse and an infiltrating tumour is important and demands attention. Fat'.y tumours are extremely