CAUSES OF FllACTUBES. 7:31 Improbable as it seems, tliere are four or five well-recorded cases of union occurring after fracture from malignant disease, tlie union soon giving way again before continued growth of the tumour. Hydatid cysts in bones are a rare prcdisponcnt to fracture. I3runs collected 11 cases. Fracture seemed usually to liavc occurred early, before anything amiss had been noticed, thougli sometinies the inadequacy of the cause gave rise to suspicion. The diagnosis ^yas aenerally made at an operation for pseuclarthrosis or at the opening of an abscess. Among Bruns’ cases the limb was saved only in three instances—twice by resection of bone and removal of tlie cysts, once by introduction of a seton, which induced suppuration, elimination of cysts, and union of fracture. In the rest death occurred from exhausting suppuration, or life was saved by sacrifice of the limb. As traumatic separation of epiphyses will be included under fractures, it is right here to mention that spontaneous separation occurs commonly in the course of primary infective periostitis and osteomyelitis, as an occasional result of hereditary syphilis, and rarely in scurvy rickets. Scurvy, as at one time met with, was said to be a cause. Determining causes.—A fracture is always due to the action upon the bone of force—either external violence, including the weight of the part, or the action of muscles. External force seems to be a far commoner cause of fracture than muscular action; yet, were it not for muscular action fixing bones, it is probable that many a fall which produces a fracture would fail to do so. Hence the remarkable escapes of drunken and insensible people from fractures of the limbs. External force acts directly or indirectly, according as it pro- duces a fracture at the point upon which it first acts, or at a distance from this point. Thus, when a cart-wheel passes over a limb, breaking the bones beneath it, the fracture is one from direct violence; but when the clavicle or radius is broken from a fall on the outstretched hand, the violence has acted indirectly. Whether applied directly or indirectly, force exercises either traction or compression, torsion being a kind of traction. Pure traction fractures are rare, and include only the teai’ing off of processes by tendons and ligaments. Pure compression fracOires or crushes of bone are not uncommon, but to obtain the efiect of pure compression, the possibility of bending must be excluded ; otherwise the fracture becomes in part a flexion fracture, in which compression is exercised on the concave and traction on the convex side of the bending bone. In flexion fractures, the break always occurs at the point of greatest tension, and begins on the convex side, at the apex of the angle. Numerous experiments and examinations of fractures have enabled P. Bruns to construct diagrams (Fig. 203) illustrating the more usrial results of force so applied to a bone as to cause it to bend beyond its limit of elasticity. They show' the production of infraction (a), transverse (b), and oblique fractures (c), and fracture