962 DISLOCATIONS. from the clavicle or the sternum. Unless great violence and marked displacement occur, the rhomboid ligament does not materially suffer. Symptoms.—The marked projection anteriorly, having the contour by feeling and sight of the articular end of the clavicle, is characteristic of this injury, the diagnosis of which is only difficult in the very obese. On placing a pad in the axilla, and throwing the shoulder outwards, the prominence tends to disappear. On raising the elbow, it is de- pressed ; on depressing the shoulder from above, it ascends. It is devoid of the sharp irregular outline of a fracture close to the sternal end of the bone, which it much resembles. There is considerable pain. The patient’s' head is inclined towards the affected side, and the distance between the root of the neck and the point of the shoulder is diminished. The clavicular tendon of the sterno-mastoid is prominent (Fig. 376). Treatment.—Dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle forwards is reduced by drawing the shoulders backwards, to disengage the bone from the front of the sternumj and especially by throwing the shoulder on the affected side outwards by means of a large axillary pad. To keep the head of the bone in position for a month or hve weeks, until the lacerated ligaments heal, is a matter of no small difficulty. If the patient will rest, reclining against a soft cushion with the arm in a sling, and direct pressure be made on the part by a pad—and nothing is better for this purpose than a soft Turkey sponge—the displacement will be to a great extent re- duced. Reduction should always be aimed at, in order to give the lio-aments a chance of re-uniting. A complete displacement occurrmg in a muscular and restless individual will probably not remain completely reduced, even with the aid of the most skilled mechanicians. The best plan in such a case is to draw out the shoulder with a large axillary pad, and bandage the arm to the side, advancing the elbow towards the middle line. Direct pressure may be made upon the displaced head by a sponge pad. iSelatons method of making pressure on the dislocated joint with a spring truss is very difficult to apply in practice. The surgeon should warn the patient of the probability of persistence of more or less displacement; he may also encourage him by the prospect^ that the limb will be useful. Indeed, little harm accrues if the joint be left permanent y ^^^(6) Tlie dislocation backwards. Anatomy.—lAevQ the head of the bone is situated behind its normal level, eithei above the sterniim.or behind it, the head of the bone then lying posterior to the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The ti^ichea or msophagus may be pressed upon or displaced, and so “^ytlie innm ininate vein or great arteries. The rhomboid ligament and the posterior ligament are more or less torn. _ ^ Symvtoms.-Ther^ is a marked depression at the root of the neck, and the head of the displaced bone may be detected above the sternum by tracing the shaft inwards. There may be great dysphagia