Manuals for Students of Medicine {continued). Surgical Applied Anatomy. By Frederick Treves, F.R.C.S., surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, the London Hospital. With 6i Engravings, itth Thousand, 7s, 6d» ** The author of * Surgical Applied Anatomy ’ is an able writer, and is also an authority on purely anatomical questions. There are excellent paragraphs on the anatomy of certain well-known surgical affections, such as hip-joint diseases, constituting a feature quite original In a work of this class, yet in no way beyond its proper scopt,*'^London Medical Recorder, Clinical Chemistry. By Charles H. Ralfe, M.D., F.R.C.P., Physician at the London Hospital. With numerous En- gravings. "The volume deals with a subject of great and increasing importance, which does not generally receive so much attention from students as it deserves. The text is concise and lucid, the chemical processes are stated in chemical formulte, and wherever they could aid the reader suitable illustrations have been introduced.”—T'/k Lancet, Human Physiology. By Henry Power, M.B., F.R.C.S., late Examiner in Physiology, Royal College of Surgeons of England. Fourth and E.nlctrged Edition, 7s, The author has brought to the elucidation of his subject the knowledge gained by many years of teaching and examining, and has communicated his thoughts in easy, clear, an forcible language, so that the work is entirely brought within the compass of every student It supplies a want that has long been felt.”—The Lancet, Materia Medica and Therapeutics. By J. Mitchell Bruce, M.D., F.R.C.P., Lecturer on Materia Medica ai Charing Cross Medical School, and Physician to the Hospital. A full account of the many important drugs contained in the Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia, recently issued, will be found in the New Edition. 31^^ Thousand. 7s. " We welcome its appearance with much pleasure, and feel sure that it will be received on all sides with that favour which it richly deserves."—iPW/ixA Medical journal. Physiological Physics. By J. McGregor-Robertson, M.A., M.B., Muirhead Demonstrator of Physiology, University of Glasgow. With 219 Engravings. 7s. "Mr. McGregor-Robertson has done the student the greatest service In collecting together in a bandy volume descriptions of the experiments usually performed, and of the apparatus concerned In performing them.”—T'^ Lancet. Surgical Diagnosis: A Manual for the Wards. By A. Pearce Gould, M.S., M.B., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to Middlesex Hospital. 7s, Qd, "We do not hesitate to say that Mr. Gould*s work Is unique In its excellence.”— The Lancet, Comparative Anatomy and Physiology. By F. Jeffrey Bell, M.A., Professor of Comparative Anatomy at lUng’s College. With 229 Engravings. 7«. fid. “ The book has evidently been prepared with very great care and accuracy, and is well up to date. The woodcuts are abundant and f,vA''—At)unaum. Cassell d Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London,