884 DISEASES OF DONES. as a rule, most marked on one side, although the whole circumfer- ence of the limb at this spot may be swollen and tender. Whilst moving the limb, grating inay be felt or lateral mobility diseovered. Separation of the epiphysis from the shaft would then be known to have taken place. The constitutional symptoms are severe, and are those of acute septic poisoning. Treatment.—No time should be lost in making an incision down to the bone in the centre of this swelling. To wait for fluctuation is to run a risk of the pus opening into the joint. For those cases in which the joint is already involved, the reader is referred to the article on Diseases op Joints (Art. XXXIII.). The usual aseptic or antiseptic dressings should be applied, and in an infant the whole limb should be wrapped in an abundant layer of wool, to act as a splint. Extension of suppuration should be most carefully watched for and treated in a suitable manner. NECROSIS. 1. Necrosis with suppuration.—The death of bone en masse is termed Necrosis, whilst molecular disintegration, where the bone is insensibly removed or absorbed, is styled Caries. These terms, therefore, correspond to sloughing and ulceration of the soft parts. JEtiology.—The inflammatory conditions which give rise ^ to necrosis have already been considered. They act chiefly by cutting off the circulation to a given area of bone, which consequently dies from want of nutrition. Acute inflammation of the periosteum and medulla is the common antecedent of an extensive necrosis, but chronic osteitis and osteosclerosis may also terminate in this way, from the gradual obstruction and filling up of the Haversian canals. Inflammation, too, of the soft parts around may spread to the periosteum and bone, and give rise to a limited necrosis, as in whitlow. Injury is also an important factor, but is of less moment than it was in the days before the antiseptic treatment of wounds. ^ A simple fracture is very rarely followed by necrosis. And in compound fractures and gunshot wounds, where formerly more or less necrosis was always to be expected, it is not at the present day so common for bone to die provided suppuration can be pi'evented. It must, therefore, be concluded that the inflammation and suppura- tion consequent upon the entrance of organisms is the usual cause of necrosis if it follow an injury. Syphilis and tubei'cle may both give rise to the death of bone, but the exact manner in wdiich they do so will be described under separate headings. (Syphilis, page 892. Tubercle, page 889.) . i i Exposure to the fumes of phos2ihorus amongst lucifer matchmakers is also a potent cause of necrosis of the jaws. {See also page 928.) It is, however, now comparatively rare, although Mr. Treves records three cases in six months at the London Hospital from his out-patient room in 1882, and again in 1892 he records another of the upper jaw