INJURIES OF BONES. 750 or it may be concealed by early swelling and thick coverings. It is most striking in the shafts of long bones. The displacements described earlier (page 745) may cause:—(1) shortening of a part; (2) very rarely lengthening of a part, though lengthening of a bone by separation of its fragments—e.y. patella transversely fractured— is common; (3) increase in girth of a part from overlapping and separation of fragments; (4) angular deformity—this, when absent with the limb at rest, often develops when the part is raised actively or passively; and lastly (5) rotatory deformity. The total deformity may be made up of two or more of the above varieties. In examining by eye, by measurements, or by touch, it is essential that the injured part, and that which corresponds to it, shall be satisfactorily exposed, and placed as nearly as possible in corresponding positions. The eye will in most cases then detect any deformity, and some place more faith in it than in measurement. Measurevienis are undoubtedly open to certain sources of error— e.g. quite a distinct difference in length of limb may exist naturally, the possessor of the limb having no knowledge of it; it is often difficult or impossible to place the two limbs in truly corresponding positions; the presence of swelling upon the injured side renders a tape measurement upon its surface too long; and lastly, the bony “points” from which measurements are taken are often of considerable extent, and when they are thickly covered, anything but corre- sponding points may be selected from or to which to measure. In the upper limb the best of these “points” are:—Tlie ends of the clavicle, the acromial angle—meeting of the outer and poste- rior borders; the inner and outer epicondyles, the head of radius or the cleft between it and the humerus, the tip of the olecranon, the tip of the styloid process of the ulna, the cleft of the first carpo- metacarpal joint, and the base of a phalanx. In the lower limb the best points are:—The anterior superior iliac spine, points on the edge of the patella, the edge of a femoral condyle (especially if the knee he flexed), the ilio-tibial spine on the outer anterior angle of the head of the tibia, and the tips of the malleoh (especially the internal). Measurement is more difficult in the lower than in the upper limb, owing to greater vagueness of the points— especially of the anterior superior iliac spine—and to the variation in apparent length of the limb, as measured from this point, according as the hip is more flexed, adducted, or abducted than its fellow. With the two limbs lying flat and parallel to the vertical axis of tlic trunk, one may appear to be shorter than the other; but when a thumb is placed upon each anterior spine to mark its position, it may become evident to the eye that the line between them is oblique to the vertical axis of the body—one spine is raised, the other is lowered, and the limb in connection with the first is adducted and shortened, whilst the other is abducted and lengthened. Or, again, measure- ment shows one of the two jjarallel limbs to be shorter than the other; the anterior spines may be on the same horizontal line, but that on the shoi’t side is generally lower and a little more prominent than its