OAltUINOMA. 485 (vith bub little inconvenience ; in the other a tumour of the size of a cherry leads to fatal pressure on the base of the brain. 4. Carcinoma (Cancer). Carcinomata are tumours that always grow from pre-existing frland tissue, and mimic the parent gland; but they differ from adenomata in the fact that the structural mimicry is incomplete. The epithelium, instead of exhibiting the regular disposition so constant in adenomata, is, in the cancers, collected in the acini and ducts in irregular clusters, or fills them so completely as to give rise to the appearance of sections of epithelial columns ■when seen under the microscope (Fig. 127). As in the case of adenomata, the species of carcinomata depend upon the relation of the epithelium to the stroma of the tumour. Situation.—Carcinomata arise in every secreting gland that gives rise to an adenoma; but they are very common in some glands and exceedingly rare in others; indeed, those glands which are the most frequently affected with adenomata are the most liable to carcinoma, with the exception of the ovary. The chief species of carcinoma are : Mammary, sebaceous, thyroid, prostatic, parotid, pancreatic, hepatic, renal, gastric, intestinal, and uterine. General characters.—Cancers are not encapsuled, but infiltrate surrounding tissues and pass beyond the glands in which they originate ; they are very prone to involve the superficial tissues, ulcerate, and quickly infect the lymph glands in the near neighbour- hood. A marked feature of carcinomata is their great tendency to undergo degenerate changes and necrosis. The rapidity with which the lymph glands are infected is due to the abundance of lymphatics in most species of cancer. Dissemination.—Cancers are exceptionally prone to become disseminated; the secondary growths may make their appearance in any organ or tissue, and not infrequently in the bones. The cancer grafts which give rise to these secondaiy nodules are trans- poi ted by lymph and blood-vessels, and when these minute emboli are lodged in suitable situations they multiply, giving rise to a gi’owth which, in its histological features, exactly resembles the parent tumour. So faithful is this reproduction that the nature of the primary tumour can often be correctly inferred from a micro- scopic examination of a secondary nodule. Indeed, few things in pathological histology ai’e more surprising than on examining a cancerous nodule in the shaft of a long bone secondary to rectal cancer—to find it present the tall columnar epithelium so characteristic of intestinal glands. The amount of dissemination varies greatly. In some cases secondary deposits will be found only in the liver, whilst in another and apparently identical case, in so far as the structure of the • umour is concerned, secondary knots occur in almost eveiw organ of tlie body, including the skeleton. Secondary deposits of cancers are not always so small as merely