1124 DISEASES OF JOINTS. joints, which render the tubercular process in the slioulder more amenable, may be left an open question; but the fact remains that the disease much more rarely requires operative treatment than in the other joints mentioned. Occasionally, however, the process goes on to destruction of the surfaces and the formation of caseous abscesses, and it becomes necessary to evacuate the latter and remove diseased tissues. This is best done through a long anterior incision over the bicipital groove. When the tendon in the latter is reached it is lifted out of the groove to the outer side, and all damaged tissue can then be excised by gouge and chisel. This is better than the complete removal of the end of the bone or resection of the glenoid hollow by any of the formal resections formerly practised. Indeed, formal excision of the shoulder joint for tuberculous disease may be said to be a rare operation noAvadays. Still, it may have to be done occa- sionally, in neglected cases in which the process has been allowed to run on to destruction of the head of the humerus and of the glenoid cavity. But such an operation should be avoided Avhenever possible. Where the disease has started in the great tuberosity it should be early dealt with by free incision over the softened or tender spot, and by thorough gouging out of the morbid material. If left to run on, the risks of infection of the joint are considerable. Syphilitic disease of the shoulder joint.—This is a rare aflection, and only calls for passing notice. When seen it is usually in the course of a syphilitic osteitis or periostitis of the head of the humerus. The treatment is that of tertiary syphilis of other parts. Osteo-arthritis of the shoulder.—This is a very common and a very troublesome affection. The general pathology, symptoms and treatment have been already discussed (page 1052), and require no further comment here. It only need be remarked that the disease is especially painful when seated in the shoulder, and very soon leads to stiUhess and atrophy of all the muscles around. Everything should be done by massage and passive motion to prevent the latter, and the patient may be assured that the more the arm is used the less pain and stiffness there wiU be. The whole shoulder should also be protected from changes of temperature by Avarm clothing and special Avoollen coverings. Synovial cysts of the shoulder.—Apart from enlargement of the bursa under the deltoid muscle these affections are rare. No special description of them is necessary after what has been already said upon the subject (page 1069). Loose bodies in the shoulder.—These are far from common, and have the same pathology as those met with elsewhere. ^ The treatment will be removal through an anterior incision along the bicipital groove. . Anchylosis of the shoulder joint.—This condition folloAving upon any form of destructive disease is a very serious one, whether only