319 agtinomygosis. r and disintegration of the small-celled infiltration and laqnefactio , e varying from a thin serous or slimy S'^containing disintegrating tissue, free oil globules, and a few leucocytes, to apparently well-marked creamy pus, sometimes daikly SrS from admixture with blood. In addition, actinomyces and small round bodies, regarded by Bostrom as spores of the organism, form the specific elements of the fluid. In acute cases large abscesses Sly form f in the more chronic the collections of fluid are more or Ipss^localised to the individual areas surrounding the organisms, with the result of the formation of a highly characteristic sponp-like mass. Bostrom considers this liquefactive process an index to the life and activity of the organism, and says that when a centre is exclusively formed by granulation and cicatricial tissue, the tungus is either inactive or dead. . • j i Symptoms —The typical sign of actmomycosis is the develop- ment of a chronic tumour. This enlarges steadily, with a tendency to reach the surface, when portions become rnore prominent, soften, and offer pseudo-fluctuation. If extension be in the direction of the skm, this becomes reddened or bluish-red, and later a yellow pomt may form on the most projecting spot, and spontaneous openmg may occm’. The marginal portion of the swelling is characterised throughout by crreat induration in the majority of instances. When softened spots are incised, serous fluid and a little blood only may escape; and a mass of soft granulation tissue, yellowish from fatty degeneration, or brownish from hsemorrhage, is exposed. In other cases pus may be found, thin, shmy, and sweet, or dirty, brown-coloured, and offensive smeUing. Whether forming spontaneously or as the result of incision, chronic fistulse persist, the mouths of these being irregular in outline, surrounded by an area of livid skin, often more or less undermined, and lined with soft readily-bleeding granulations, often speckled with deposits of the organism. The discharge contains more or less numerous actinomyces or actinomycotic elements. The general tendency is to spread constantly, the older portions of the infiltration inclining to cicatrisation. This tendency is so marked that when the case comes under notice the original site of infection may have so completely healed as to be unrecognisable, and to be traced only by the following up of cicatricial bands at the time of operation (Bostrom). The whole process is commonly attended by little pain, fever, or constitutional disturbance. In some cases, how- ever, the process may, as already explained, be much more acute; and here fever is a marked symptom, sometimes pyfemic in character, and exhaustion may rapidly cause a fatal termination. Primary infections of the mouth are common, and in these cases the disease has a special tendency to extend along the jaws. A chronic swelling, often giving I’ise to little or no pain, slowly creeps along the jaw, a feeling of tension in opening the mouth is followed by actual difficulty in moving the jaw and subsequent fixation, the tumour spreading and involving the neck or parotid region ; or in the case of the upper jaw, creeping back and involving the base of