FliAGTUEE OF THE OLEGBANON. 823 l)y muscular action. The joint is swollen early, and a haamatoma forms over the cleft, whicli can usually be felt through it on the subcutaneous aspect; active extension of the arm, even in the horizontal plane, is usually impossible ; the fragment can be moved, and crepitus is easy. With complete detachment of the olecranon, dislocation forwards of the ulna occurs easily. Union is almost always fibrous, of greater or less length ; bony union, without operation, pro- bably occurs only in cases from direct violence with little or no separation. When fibrous union is long, extension is proportionately feeble, and may be impossible against gravity. Rarely the upper fragment has become attached to the humerus without absolutely pi’eventing exten- sion, or the joint has become fixed. Rheuma- toid changes of the elbow seem to be excited with special frequency by injury. Comminuted and compound in- juries are uncom- mon. Trea.tment. — The joint should be aspirated if it contain much fluid. Some deavour to ^ strips of strapping- passing over it from arm to fore-arm, or by a U-shaped piece placed above the fragment, while the limbs are carried over the front of the fore-arm. If no separation be caused by flexion, the limb may be fixed by plaster in this position. As a rule’ the best position is slight flexion; full extension may lead to dislocation forwards of the ulna or to pushing of the olecranon out of the fossa into which it should sink. This position is best maintained by plaster-of-Paris bandages with or without an anterior splint from a.Killa to wrist, thickly padded opposite the elbow. If the fragments do not lie well together, the upper may be fixed against the lower by cutting a large window over the back of the joint, fixing a pair of Malgaigne’s hooks, with antiseptic precautions, through the triceps on to the upper surface of the olecranon, and the other pair into the lower edge of the window. Another plan is Mayo Robson’s, of passing one stout needle through the triceps as close as possible to the bone, and another through the fibrous tissue over the lower fragment (Robson now uses this plan), or through a hole drilled in the latter • the nro jecting ends are then firmly wired together. Both fragments may be drilled, and a wire suture passed through them from above down- wards ; or the lower may be drilled from side to side, the wire bein-^ Fig. 258.—Posterior onguLir Glitter Splints of metal bracketed at Elbow. Most useful in comxjound cases. down the upper fragment by means of long en- bring