346 TUBEB0UL08I8. The introduction of the giant cell element gives to the tissue change a distinctive character, and Fig. 64 shows the earlier tuber- culous phenomena, sucli as may nearly always be seen at the peri- phery of an obviously tuber- cular focus. Beyond this stage, in acute cases, the process of tuberculosis may not extend, and after no more elaborate development than has been here shown, the affected dis- trict may pass on into casea- tion. In the more usual or chronic progress of tubercle formation, on the other hand, a further development takes place. The giant cell becomes more conspicuous and more clearly detoed. As a rule. Fig. 64.—One of tlie Cell Clusters from Area c gach tubercular focuS Fig. 63. • . 11 • but one giant cell is asso- ciated ; or if more than one be present, a particular cell is predominant. It is disposed in the centre of the cell colony, and what appears to be a reticulum may commonly be seen to extend from the mass forming the giant cell into the midst of the surround- ing cells (Fig. 65). The so-called giant cell is—when compared with the structures in its vicinity—of enormous size. Its nuclei are composed of epithelioid cells, which are often arranged in a curved row about the periphery of the mass, or are huddled together in a semi-lunar cluster at one end of it (Fig. 65). On the other hand, the nuclei within the cell may be arranged in no order, and appear simply as a compressed but well circumscribed crowd. In the cell bodies which surround the giant cell it may be apparent that the epithelioid cells are more numerous near the centre, and the leucocytes more numerous about the periphery. The whole collection forms a more distinctly rounded focus, and under a low power of the microscope stands out more clearly as a nodule. Beyond this stage, again, the process may not extend; but as soon as ths degree of the development just described has been reached, disintegration may set in. In very many of the commoner examples of surgical tuberculosis, the tubercle is a no more elaborate structure than this; and Fig. 65 may serve to illustrate the form which is perhaps most common in tubercular gland disease. In the more chronic cases a still further elaboration of structure is, however, to be met with. This takes the fomi of the complete tubercle : a structure sufficiently large and well defined to be visible