treatment. 199 But the treatment of tetanus cannot be dismissed without alluding howe\ei, been q Hospital I am unaware of a of tetanus affords as little the local The remedies that have been used almost exhaust the pharmacopoeia. The following is the ^ ‘^rtsSfe at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and which has afforded fair results The bowels are thoroughly moved with a minim of croton oil. For children a less violent purge suffices Then the J under the influence of a mixture consisting of equal paits of biom de of potassium and of chloral hydrate. A usual dpse is twenty giains of each every six hours. Chloroform is administered when the convulsions are violent and distressing, and may diminished as is found requisite. A light and nourishing A^id ^ is administered. If trismus prevent the mouth from being opened food mav be given by a tube passed behind the or tliiou h th nose. At the same time, as Verneuil recommends, the patient may be wrapped in cotton-wool, and isolated in a warm, silent, darkened room. Amongst the other remedies which have been given may be mentioned oxygen gas (from this I have seen a slight benefit), conium, belladonna, cannabis indica, opium, jaborandi, calabar bean, tobacco enemata, nicotine, and other remedies too numerous to mention, and all equally dubious in their action. ^ The preventive treatment oi tetanus is fully attained by adherence to the tenets and practice of aseptic surgery. It is necessary to remember, however, that this bacillus, owing to the extreme vitality of its spores, offers great resistance to heat and chemicals. Instru- ments of any kind, and especially those which may have been «sed for a case of tetanus, should be boiled in washing soda and water tor at least twenty minutes. All recent wounds into which earth, mud, or dust may have entered ought to be thoroughly explored and cleansed by the removal of fouled tissues, and thoroughly disinfected with solutions of chemicals, such as a solution of perchloride of mercury—one part in five hundred parts, with the addition of 5 pei cent, of hydrochloric acid j or a lotion of carbolic acid, one part in ten. The wound should afterwards be dusted with iodoform poiyder and packed with iodoform gauze. An outbreak of tetanus in a hospital ought to be traced to its source, and thorough disinfection practised under the strict superintendence of a competent person. All the dressings and discharges from a tetanic patient should be burnt.