255 COMPLICATIONS OF BURNS. Pain is more excessive in the slighter than in the graver degrees; its absence is a sign of serious import. Travers, in his classical work, crives many examples illustrating these fatal complications ot burns and scalds. Their eftects are more to be apprehended in intants, delicate females, and in burns and scalds of the chest and abdomen. The extent of the injury, or, in other words, the number of peripheral nerve-endings involved, is usually more important than the depth of the burn or scald. I have seen a fireman die collapsed a few hours after a burn of the first and second degree, involving the face and trunk. Mr. Durham says that recovery rarely occurs when more than half the surface of the body is burnt or scalded, and Von Nussbaum says it is rare after a third. Travers thinks the constitu- tional effects are less when the cuticle is charred, or killed, or raised m blisters, than when it is detached and ravelled in rolls like wet paper. After death from shock or collapse no distinctive appearances are seen. The membranes of the brain, and the abdominal and thoracic viscera are engorged with blood, and, therefore, this has sometimes been called the stage of “ congestion,” the other stages bein" those of reaction and inflammation, and of suppuration and e.xhaustion. In some instances death results soon after the burn or scald from cardiac thrombosis. This is said to be associated with disintegration of the blood-corpuscles. It is betokened clinically by dyspnoea, precordial pain, and great irregularity and tumult of the heart’s action. (2) Shock and collapse are followed by reaction, and reaction by inflammation and the various complications due to sepsis. The mflammation that follows the application of heat cannot be pre- vented, but its amount may be controlled by skilful treatment. (3) Snppuration and sepsis are due to the multiplication and action of the bacteria which always inhabit the skin, especially that of uncleanly people. They are also caused by the introduction of bacteria from without. The prevention of suppuration after burns is in a very backward state. Suppuration is apt to be looked upon as inevitable, and its treatment often left to inexperienced persons. The number of deaths from sepsis after burns and scalds is a reproach to surgery. In addition to suppuration, the local infection may cause ulceration, sloughing, gangrene, lymphangitis, abscess, erysipelas, and cellulitis. When the bacteria enter the circulation they cause septicaemia and pyaemia. After deaths from burns and scalds pneumonia, pleuritis, pericarditis, and nephritis are commonly met with. {See page 257.) From histological examinations recently made I have come to the conclusion that these are due to bacterial invasion. In infants streptococci are particularly virulent, and are the unsuspected cause of many deaths. Complications.—Tetanus is an occasional complication of burns. It may occur at any time before the wound is healed. The experi- ments of Yassale and Sacchi show that the juices of burnt tissues are