703 CHABOOTS DISEASE. An examination of a })atient with tabes may not only verify some of the above symptoms, but may elicit others. Usually, the lirst thing to do is to test the knee-jerks; and in most cases of tabes these are absent, though not necessarily in all. The stability of the patient may be tested by making him stand with his heels together and his eyes shut, or by making him walk whilst blindfold, or by standing on one leg. An examination of the eyes will usually show that the pupil does not contract to the stimulus of light, but that when the vision is concentrated on some near object, it does con- tract during accommodation. Ophthalmoscopic examination may reveal grey atrophy of the optic disc, and the held of vision may be diminished. If the joint affected be seen within a few days of the hrst attack, it will be found to be greatly swollen and tense, and to contain a large quantity of fluid ; the limb in the neighbourhood is usually swollen also. At a later stage the effusion is less marked, and the surrounding swelling much diminished or absent. The most noticeable feature at such a time is the extreme mobility of the articulation, so that, instead of the movements being limited as in most forms of disease, there is abnormally free movement in all directions. Thus, circumduction at the shoulder or hip is permitted to an extent unknown in health, and in the knee or elbow there may be hyper-extension and lateral mobility (Fig. 196). When this con- dition is still further developed, a so-called flail joint results, and at any period dislocation may ensue. In many such cases, where the joint is sufficiently superficial, it can be felt that certain portions of articular bone are worn away, and in other cases masses of new bone may be felt in the .synovial membrane. Another most remarkable feature of such a case is the complete, or almost comjjlete, absence of pain, with or without movement, and this is all the more noticeable when the case is seen early, and the effusion present is such as to make it certain that in all other forms of arthritis there would neces- sarily be a good deal of pain. Lastly, it should be mentioned that all cases of Charcot’s disease do not run so acute a course as is here described, and that in some of them pain is present; the development of bony nodules in the synovial membrane may also prevent the free mobility which usually characterises the disease. Ti-eatuiciit.—^Unfortunately, no treatment can arrest the pro- gress of this affection. Rest in the early stages, and the applica- tion of splints to keep the joint surfaces from attrition, are all that can be advised. Spontaneous fracture.—On account of the atrophy of the bones in many cases of old-standing paralysis, they are very liable to fracture on the application of but slight violence, and such bones are very slow to unite when broken. Spontaneous fractures, however, are liable to occur also in tabetic patients who have never been paralysed or bedridden, and a considerable number of such cases have been recorded. In most of them the fracture has occurrerl in the early stages of the disease, and without any premonitory