314 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO MIGROBIO INFECTION. circulation the patient suffers little, except from a feeling of general malaise. The temperature then rises to 102” to 104” F gradually falling intermittently j and if the case be treated by early excision, reaches normal in a few days. The malignant pustule itself is the seat of remarkably little pain, but acute pains may be experienced in the limbs. In fatal cases, sweating and diarrhoea set in, accompanied by delirium, fall of temperature, often below normal, great prostration, and eventual collapse. Malignant pustule may serve as a local centre from which embolic secondary deposits are fuimished, or it may occur secon- darily to anthrax of internal organs. liiaig'ILOSis.—The recognition of malignant pustule is usually easy, by observing the special appearances and carefully inquiring into the history. Davies Colley has pointed out that it is to be distinguished from facial carbuncle by its comparative painless- ness, the dark centre, and the absence of the multiple yellow spots of commencing suppuration seen in the latter affection. Diagnosis can be made certain in doubtful cases by microscopic examination of the fluid in the vesicles or by the inoculation of a rabbit. It is well to bear in mind that the bacilli are only present in the blood after general symptoms have commenced to develop. Prog'nosis.—Malignant pustule rarely undergoes spontaneous cure. If treated energetically, the majority of the cases recover rapidly. Lengyel and Koranyi lost only 13 out of 142 cases treated surgically. If secondary deposits occur, or signs of internal anthrax appear, the patient usually dies rapidly. In uncomplicated cases not treated, death occurs in from five to eight days. Tr6atlH61lt.—The only treatment to be recommended is free excision, and this should be followed by cauterisation, Davies Colley has published several cases in which chloride of zinc paste or liquid carbolic acid were successfully used for the subsequent cauterisation. The local oedema and general symptoms usually rapidly subside after removal of the infecting centre, and it is difficult to say when it becomes too late to be worth trying this mode of treat- ment. In cases where excision is impossible, or such treatment refused, parenchymatous injections of 2 per cent, carbohc acid solution may be tried, as good results have been obtained by this method. They should be radial and frequently repeated, 20 to 3C minims of the solution being employed. Eefeeenoes. W. Koch, Milzbrand, and Eauschbrand : Deutsch. Cbir., Lief 9,1886. Davies Colley and Charlewood Turner. Transactions of the Medico-Cbirurgica) Society, vol. Ixv., 1882, p. 237. VIII. ACTINOMYCOSIS. .etiology,—This is a disease dependent on the entrance and growth of the ray fungus, or actinomyces (a species of Cladothrix, Bostrbm), into the system of man. The disease corresponds with that observed in oxen, calves.