DISEASES OF BONES. 874 osteosclerosis. In this condensing osteitis, not only does new bone form beneath the periosteum, increasing its size, but the granulation tissue within the Haversian canals organises into new bone, filling up the spaces which had been previously formed, and partly obliterating these narrow channels. The bone, therefore, becomes denser and harder than in the normal condition, and may even be converted into a tissue as dense almost as ivory. If the vessels be completely obliterated, the death or necrosis of a considerable area of bone may take place. Rarefying osteitis may terminate in another way. If the irrita- tion be more acute, the granulation tissue may form pus. This is the ordinary termination of osteitis around a piece of bone already dead, as will be described under necrosis and in compound fracture. In tuberculous osteitis of cancellous tissue the same softening process may ensue, producing the well-known chronic abscess of bone (page 891). If the inflammation be still more acute, and the infiltration take place before time has been allowed for the absorption of bone, the vessels in the Haversian canals may be compressed, and the circulation arrested over a considerable area of bone, causing its death. This is one of the ways in which acute necrosis arises (page 876). .ffitiology.—Injuries of various kinds are the most common excit- ing causes of osteitis, such as fracture (simple and compound), gunshot wounds, amputations, contusions, and burns. Trivial accidents in a subject already predisposed to inflammation of bone may give rise to the same condition. The diseases in which such predisposition exists, apart indeed from any injury, are syphilis and tubercle. Rheu- matic afiections also give rise to chronic inflammation of bone. Subacute osteitis terminating in abscess is not uncommon during the convalescence of typhoid fever. The other exanthemata, such as measles and scarlet fever, are often forerunners of both acute and chronic osteitis. SymptoniS.—H tbe compact tissue of bone is the primary seat of inflammation, it is, as a rule, a more or less chronic afi’ection, be- ginning slowly and insidiously, with obscure dull aching pains, which are worse at night and in wet weather. It may make considerable progress before the patient seeks advice, complaining then only pf persistent pain, which generally comes on in the evening, whilst sit- ting over a Are or after he has become warm in bed. On examination of one of the long bones, which is generally the part complained of, and more frequently the femur or tibia than any other, the bone will be found larger than its fellow, and tender on pressure. A part only of the shaft in its length is generally afiected; but at this spot the whole circumference and thickne.ss of the bone appear to be enhuged. At the margins of the inflamed area the enlargement tapers ott to the normal condition of the healthy bone. It is thus easy by pass- in<^ the finger and thumb down the sides of the bone from one end to°the other to recognise the condition. If syphilis be the cause, the corresponding bone in the opposite limb may be similarly enlarged