WMOUliS. 456 species, when sessile, sometimes require very persevering efforts on the part of tlve surgeon, aided by the best surgical cutlery. When an osteoma grows from the roof of the orbit, it should be remem- bered that it often projects deeply into the cranial cavity. 4. OnoNTOMATA (Tooth Tumours). Odontomes are tumours composed of dental tissues in varying proportions and different degrees of development, arising from teeth- germs, or teeth still in the process of growth. The species of this genus, determined according to the part of the tooth-germ concerned in their formation, are :—(1) Epithelial odon- tome (from the enamel organ); (2) follicular odontome; (3) fibrous I Fig. 103.—Epithelial Odontome. (After Pepper.) a Diviaed bone; 6, teeth ; c, cysts containing a glairy fluid; d, lobules of tlie growth. seen to be made up of congeries of cysts of various shapes and sizes. The loculi rarely exceed 2 cm. in diameter. The walls of individual loculi are sometimes ossified. The cavities contain mucoid fluid of a brownish colour (Fig. 103). Histologically, an epithelial odontome consists of branching and anastomosing columns of epithelium, portions of which form alveoli. The cells occupying the alveoli vary. Thus the outer layer may be columnar, whilst the central cells degenerate, and give rise to tissue resembling the stratum intermedium of an enamel organ (Fig. 104). 2. Follicular odontomes.—This species includes those tumours commonly called “dentigerous cysts,” a term which is so often con- founded with tooth-containing dermoids that it is advisable to dis- odontome; (,4; ce- mentome 3 (5) com- pound follicular odontome (from the tooth follicle); (6) radicular odontome (from the papilla); (7) composite odon- tome (from the whole germ). 1. Epithelial odontomes. — These occur as en- capsuled tumoura in the mandible, and less frequently in the maxillae. In section they are card it. . . ,. Follicular odontomes are usually, but by no means mvariably, associated with the permanent teeth, especially the molars, and sometimes attain very large proportions and produce great deformity. Occasionally they are multiple, especially when connected with the maxillary teeth. The tumour consists of a wall of varying thickness. Thus it may be thin and crepitant, or measure 2 cm. in thickness.