253 effects of burns. ‘Ss%« .Tpyrane. white stlr^t without contvaotion or deformity, because the whole t-liirkness of the skin has not been destroyed. i • •„ nur-nf In the fourth degree the whole thickness of the skin is bur t and^the su^utaneous fat and connective tissue share in the deluctior In the process of repair there is much scarring with contraction and deformity. This is partially due of tissue, and partially, as Mr. T. Holmes remarks, to the formation of inelastic contractile scar in place of the elastic cellular tissue. In the fifth degree the burn penetrates through the skm, sub- cutaneous tissue and deep fascia, and reaches the muscles. In the sixth degree everything is charred to t^ bone. Effects on the tisSUeS.-Extreme heat a,ffects the tissues m two ways. By its direct action it coagulates their albumen dissipates their moisture, or consumes them entirely. By its indirect action it excites in them acute inflammation, which leads to desquamation, vesication, ulceration, sloughing, or gangrene. As a nile, both the direct and indirect actions of heat are seen m severe When the direct action of heat is sufficient to kill the tissues outrif^ht, the epidermis becomes white and opaque, and large areas of it'separate from the true skin. The true skin becomes seared, yellow, parchment-like, and shrivelled; the deep tissues become brown, black, and charred, and their blood coagulated. The acute inflammation which is caused by excessive heat leads, in the flrst degree, to desquamation of the superficial layers of the epidermis. When it is deeper, as in the second degree, the inflam- matory effusion collects as a yellow fluid betwixt the epidermis and the dermis. When the inflammation is very acute, and when it attacks the dermis and deeper tissues, ulceration, sloughing, and gangrene are the results. _ The causation of these changes by acute inflammation has been explained elsewhere (page 59). They occur when the inflammatory processes have passed through the phases of acceleration and retarda- tion of the circulation and have ended in stasis of the blood-stream. Thus, when the capillary circulation is stopped, ulceration ensues, owing to the death of the minute portions or molecules of tissue supplied by them. When the stasis is in the larger trunks and arterioles, sloughing occurs, because larger portions are deprived of nutriment and oxygen ; and stasis in the larger arteries or veins causes large pieces of the body, or whole limbs, to become gangrenous. Thus the local changes which follow burns and scalds depend partially upon their degree. The desquamation and occasional dis- coloration which follow the first degree hardly call for comment.