WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 228 some antiseptic be added to the water employed for the irrigation, a certain inhibitory efl’ect will be produced as regards the growth of these organisms. Irrigation is carried out in various ways, and as a matter of fact it is almost only applicable to injuries of the extremities. Where it is used the bed should be covered with mackintosh, which is carefully fastened round the upper part of the affected extremity, so as to prevent the fluids from running into the bed, and, if it be pos- sible, the limb should be laid in a trough in order to catch the fluid. Where this is not possible, one must simply arrange the mackintosh so that the stream of fluid is conducted into a vessel at the side of the bed. Various irrigators are employed, probably the simplest being a piece of worsted thread, one end being placed in a vessel containing the solution to be employed, and the other end lying on the centre of the wound. By capillary attraction, there is a constant, though slow, stream running into the wound. Where more rapid irrigation is required, this must be carried out by means of a proper irrigator, with tubing and a nozzle with stopcock j but in most cases the worsted thread will supply enough fluid. In employing irrigation, the parts around should be thoroughly soaked with vaseline or other fatty substance, so as to prevent the skin from becoming sodden, and the fluid must not be allowed to drop on to the wound. Whether it be the worsted thread or the nozzle of an irrigator, the supply of the fluid must be in actual contact with the surface, there being nothing more painful than a continual dropping of fluid on to a wound. As regards the fluid to be employed for irrigation, it should be about the temperature of the body, and contain some mild antiseptic, more especially some antiseptic which does not coagulate albumen. Boracic acid, for example, is an excellent material for irrigation, weak iodine water has also been much employed, as also weak solutions of per- chloride of iron. Sanitas and permanganate of potash are, next to boracic acid, probably the best materials. The irrigation must be interrupted after a few hours, the part in the interval being wrapped up in wet antiseptic gauze, with mackintosh outside. Continuous irrif'^ation renders the wound too cedematous and interferes with the healing process. As soon as the wound has become covered with granulations, the irrigation should be intermitted and recourse had to various antiseptic ointments or other dressings which have already been described in connection with ulcers and wounds (pages 115 and 225). 4. Lacerated wounds.—By a lacerated wound we mean one which has been inflicted by a blunt instrument which has torn the skin rather than contused it. Very often these wounds are pro- duced by machinery in movement, and the skin is often torn off for a very considerable distance. The result is that if the wound be left to nature, violent inflammation and suppuration occur in the part, and extensive portions of these torn tissues slough, and here a"ain it is very essential that the wound should be made aseptic if possible. This is done in the same way as has been previously