ANEUE78M. . blood within it. Normally, such yielding is prevented partly by the strength of the arterial wall, and partly by its elasticity which ensures its recoil immediately the force of the ventricle is’ expended. Healthy arteries have such a reserve of resistance, above all the demands that can be made upon them, that simple increase ot blood pressiu-e, from plethora, oyer-action of the heart, or increased resistance in the capillary circulation, never by itself causes aneurysm. When, however, the stz'ength or the elasticity of an artery is lessened, it may yield under even the normal blood pressure, and still moie readily does it yield when the blood pressure is in- creased. From this it follows that the immediate cause of every case oj spontaneous aneurysm is some condition weakening the arterial wall. In many cases this is supplemented by an increase in the blood pressure in the arteries. These factors must be considered in some detail, and then we must more briefly discuss the secondary or remote causes of aneurysm. Conditions which weaken the arterial w'^all. — Atheroma., with fatty de- generation of the inflammatory products, is the most important of the conditions which weaken arterial walls; although the diseased artery is thickened, it is weaker, and, above all, less elastic than a healthy artery. As a result of the weakening of the vessel, the diseased portion maybe dilated by the force of the heart, and the loss of elasticity prevents a recoil from taking place during the cardiac diastole. Calcification preserves arteries from aneurysmal dilatation, although calcareous plates may be found in the walls of aneurysms. {See Fig. 168.) Tubular calcification may be followed by aneurysm, if under some blow or strain the calcareous middle coat snaps across, and the outer coat of the vessel yields before the blood pressure. By some authorities syphilis has been credited with playing a very important role in the production of aneurysm. A form of arteritis, which is undoubtedly due to syphilis, occurs in small arteries, especially in those at the base of the brain, and leads to their thickening and often to their obliteration ] and it has been suggested that when the middle coat has been destroyed, and the new tissue in the inner coat absorbed, the artery is so weakened that it yields and forms an aneurysm. This disease is a frequent cause of aneurysm of the cerebral arteries, and it is alleged that a similar P g. 166.—Pulmonary Cavity with a small Sacculated Aneurysm (a) projecting into it. (Drawn from a suecimeu in the Mu- seum of the Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, Brompton.)