DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1058 granules, vertical to the surface, which ultimately separate columns of the matrix one from the other, until the whole tissue lias the appearance of a “ pile ” fabric like coarse velvet, and, when stroked over with the finger, all the fibres are bent in one direction, as a field of corn beaten down by the wind. These changes may depend upon age, damaged innervation, insufficient food, or the circulation in the blood of deleterious materials, damaging the nutrition of the tissues. That the latter may operate in this way is shown by the somewhat analogous condition of cartilage, produced by the presence of urate of soda. Here, as the result of mal-assimilation or bad elimination, or of both, a harmful material accumulates in the blood, and is carried through all the tissues of the body, inducing the changes already alluded to (page 1051). When very abundant in the blood, this salt is deposited in the cartilage in the form of bunches of a circular form, and may give the tissue a chalky appearance. Its presence here leads to loss of vitality of the tissue, and consequent degenerative changes, the matrix breaking up as in the fatty change just described, until it is completely destroyed. Analogous materials of a non-crystalline form may also produce similar changes, without being precipitated from the blood as a solid. This seems likely to be the primary cause of the degenerative changes seen in osteo-arthritis. The pearly swelling, on the other hand, seen at the borders of the encrusting cartilage, is probably secondary, and due to the irritation of friction between surfaces now roughened, and consisting of material never designed to bear the movements of the articulation. Secondary affections of cartilage.—Secondarily, joint carti- lage is also otherwise affected in many ways, like other forms of connective tissue. That is to say, if any powerful irritant be brought into contact with either its free or attached surface, its intercellular substance and cells are attacked and destroyed in a similar way. Allusion has already been made to the effect of septic matter within a joint upon its encrusting cartilage, and also to the consequences of simple suppurative synovitis. The differences between these, if any, ai'e only those of degree. In both cases a substance capable of attacking and devitalising the cells and matrix of the cartilage is brought into contact with the latter. As a result, the corpuscles are destroyed, and the capsules open towards the joint, producing little pits upon the surface. Through these depressions the irritant reaches a deeper layer of ’‘mother capsules, producing the same changes in them, until they likewise ^ burst towards the joint, and the whole cartilage is “honeycombed,” even as far as the underlying bone. In septic .synovitis this process of destruction is usually rapid and uniform over all the surfaces, which appear as if digested, in some solvent fluid. In syphilitic disease, and in tuberculosis, on tlie other hand, where the infection is slower and the irritation localised, the cartilage is often only pitted with small ulcers, leaving healthy