INJURIES OF BONES. 730 and the cysts ciuiso “expansion” of tlie bone, witii great thinning or complete absorittion in places of tlic compact tissue—spontaneous fracture naturally r(!sulting. Malimiant growtlis of bones are primary (sarcoma) or secondary (sarcoma or carcinoma). According to Gross, pi’imaiy central sarcomata, affecting chiefly the cancellous ends of long bones, form more than half tlie cases, and spontaneous fractures arise in about 20 per cent, of all central primary sarcomata. They occur in only 5 per cent, of the primary peripheral growths. In both cases, round- and spindle-celled growths tend more strongly than giant- celled to induce fracture. In primary cases a tumour (Fig. 202) is always present before fracture occurs. Difficulties in recognising the cause of frac- ture arise from the thickness of the covering of the bone affected—e.ff. about the hip— and from the possibility that displacement and hrcmori’hage may have caused such swell- ing as is felt. The femur is most com- monly affected, then the tibia, and then the humerus. Osteomalacia carcinomatosa is the name which has been given to a very rare disease, clinically like osteomalacia, characterised by a diffuse malignant infiltration of the me- dulla, commencing usually in the vertebral bodies, and spreading thence over more or less of the skeleton without forming distinct tumours. The fractures and bendings are most common in the spine. Secondary malignant growths, usually carcinomatous and central, cause spontaneous fractures more commonly than primary. Bruns found that, among 71 fractures from secondary growths, the primary growth had been mammary in no fewer than 59 instances—a predominam^, probably, due to the long course of many mammary cancers. ^ Of the 71 fractures, 34 occurred in the femur, 20 in the spine, 3 in both femur and spine, 11 in humerus, 1 each in humerus and spine, hu- merus and both femora, and clavicle. As a rule, no tumour which can be felt develops in these cases—the growths being small, central, and often numerous; or diffusely infiltrating the medulla. The diag- nosis then depends upon the presence or history of removal of a primary rrrowth, and the occurrence of a fracture from an inadequate cause. ° Formerly cancer was regarded as a cause of fragilitas ossium, but research has shown that almost invariably a spontaneous fracture in cancer is due to a secondary growth. It would if a condition like senile atrophy were induced by the which sometimes precedes death from cancer, but indubitable cases are very difficult to find. Fii '. 202.—A rriin.uy Sarcoma ’’of tlie Feimirof peripheral origin which has led to Fracture of the Bone. (King's College Museum.)