TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. 779 and wire sutures or plated screws inserted. Indeed, this is probably always worth doing when the fragments are so freely exposed as to Ije easily got at, the subsequent treatment is so much facilitated; but it is doubtful whether, without further reason, one would be justified in converting an uninfected puncture into a con- siderable wound, which, should it not heal per primam, would for a considerable time expose the patient to the possibility of infection. I>rcs$ins:s an<l splints.—After the above treatment, the fracture is held in position whilst the necessary dressings and splints are apphed. It is a general rule that “splints should be placed outside the dressing, unless they can be entirely included witliin it. To fix a leg on an Arnold’s or a MacIntyre’s splint, and then apply a dressing about a wound, including the splint, is to court infection; for the discharge will almost certainly come through between the hmb and the splint where it is not to be seen, remain moist, and liable to putrefy. When a solid gutter splint is used, even outside the dressing, there is always danger that discharge coming through towards the splint may be unnoticed and remain moist. Sometimes short metal side splints can be included from end to end in the dressing, and may be used; but if the dressing has to be changed, the spHnts come off with it, so they have no advantage in this respect over such splints as those above named applied outside the dressing. At each change of dressing the wound is exposed, the hmb lifted by the surgeon (page 767), the old dressing is replaced by a new one and any re-padding of the splint done, and then the limb is laid down upon it. If well managed, everything being ready beforehand, the distui’bance and pain are generally slight. But when there is tendency to displace- ment, when pain and nervousness result in spasm directly the limb is touched, it is a clear advantage to use apparatus which need not be removed, especially in the case of the heavy and powerful lower hmb. Extension between sandbags is often useful. Thomas’s knee splint without the leather apron, but with a plaster bandage round the bars and the hmb running up and down from the dressing, is most valuable. The shoulder strap is used, and extension is generally useful. If a wide gap must be left between the plaster bandages, short lateral splints or a trellis sphnt can be buckled round the dressing. But, generally, a thick wool dressing and a firm bandage round hmb and bars afford ample support. This is the most secure form of bracketed plaster sphnt. Hodgen’s, Smith’s anterior splint and the trellis sphnt are often useful. Many compound fractures are treated by the application of an ordinary plaster sphnt outside the dressing; discharge may come through the plaster and diy if not too profuse. Each surgeon will use that form of antiseptic dressing upon which he has learnt to rely. There is none better than the double cyanide gauze and salicylic wool apphed in mass and firmly compressed; discharge may come thi’ough this dressing very freely before it requires changing. After twenty-four to forty-eight hours