97 OHBONIO ABSCESS. abscess as one would dissect out a cyst without opening it. If this can be done, a clean cut wound is left, which is not infected with tubercle bacilli, or other bacteria, and we have healing by first intention. This method of treating chronic abscesses may be carried out in a very considerable number of cases; for example, in the subcutaneous abscesses of children (gomme scrqfuleuse of the French) cure is at once effected by dissecting them out, while months may elapse before healing is obtained by the other plans of treatment. Hence, whenever the abscess is not too large (and after all, a long skin incision is not a matter of the slightest consequence, except in exposed parts of the body) and wherever the connections of the abscess are not such as to render it anatomically impossible to remove it, this is the treatment which should be adopted. This method need not be confined to abscesses originating in the soft tissues, or in glands— where the abscess and the gland together are excised—but can also be carried out in a considerable number of cases of abscesses connected with bones, more especially abscesses associated with superficial bones, such as the ribs or clavicle. In the case of abscess connected with carious ribs, unless it be very large indeed, a free incision should be made over the centre of the abscess, extending well beyond it on each side, and in the direction of the muscular fibres which overlie it. The wall of the abscess should be exposed and freed, care being taken that the cuts are made in the healthy fat around, and that portions of the wall of the abscess are not left behind. The abscess wall having been thoroughly exposed—super- ficial to the rib—but not yet opened, the point at which it joins the periosteum should be defined, and the rib cut through on each side behind that point. The enclosed portion of rib belonging to the abscess is then removed, along with the abscess wall. It will be found in most cases, however, that the pus has accumulated, not only superficially to the rib, but also on its deeper surface between it and the pleura, and this deeper portion of the abscess, which is generally quite small, cannot usually be removed without running the risk of opening the pleural cavity. Hence, with regard to this part of the abscess, thorough scraping with a sharp spoon must be employed. As a rule, the whole abscess can in this way be removed, and the wound is then closed and heals by first intention. In cases where the abscess is connected with disease in the long bones, more especially with the enlarged epiphysial ends of the bones, the abscess should be freed in a similar manner, and then, by means of a chisel and mallet, the piece of bone should be chipped away underneath the point of attachment of the abscess ; if it be then found that there is a tuberculous deposit in the interior of the bone, this deposit must be thoroughly cleared out by gouging or scraping. (^See Art, XXX.) 2. Where it is not possible on account of the size and anatomical connections of the abscess to dissect it out completely, the surgeon must be content with some less efficient measure. In such a case a free incision should be made over the abscess, laying it open, if possible, E