BIOKETS. 374 changes to be identical. The causation is not so distinctly to be ti-aced, but there is much reason to believe that the disease is merely a recrudescence of an earlier attack which has passed imnoticed. As has been pointed out by Glutton, the cases differ from those in which bending of the bones occurs between the ages of six and nine, since in the latter the history of rickets is a continuous one. The bending of the bones also differs from that observed at puberty or later, as in the so-caUed adolescent knock-knee and bow-leg, since it is accomparded by the enlargement of the epiphyses observed in infantile rickets (Fig. 77). Late rickets usually comes under observation in children from nine to thirteen years of age. The curvatures and epiphysial enlargements are more striking in the lower extremity, but the whole skeleton may be involved. As in the infantile disease, the treatment depends entirely on attention to diet and the administration of cod-liver oil and iron. The deformities must also be treated on the same principles. Eefeeenoes. Glutton : St. Thomas’s Hospital Eeports, vol. siv., 1884, p. 103. Drewitt; Pathological Society’s Transactions, vol. xxxii., 1881, pp. 387, 391. Lucas : Lancet, vol. i., 1883, p. 993. Scurvy rickets.—^This disease consists in a combination of the two affections, and is of especial interest from the support it gives to the theory of improper feeding as the causation of rickets. The want of milk, poor cow’s milk, or artificial foods, which give rise to rickets, are equally deficient m the anti-scorbutic elements necessary for a perfect food, and hence are responsible for the two conditions. The disease is more common among the children of well-to-do pai’ents, from the fact that these are more often hand-fed with patent foods. (Barlow.) The pathology of the disease is that of rickets plus scurvy; and this is evidenced by the presence of more or less extensive subperi- osteal hsemorrhages, and hjemorrhages from mucous surfaces, into the muscles and beneath the skin. A special peculiarity of scurvy rickets is the tendency to separation of the epiphyses : an accident not observed in pure rickets, though not uncommon in the epiphysial disease of infantile syphilis. The disease is most commonly met with in children from ten to twelve months of age. According to Barlow, it may arise at any period after four months, and especially between nine and eighteen months. ^ Symptoms*—The onset of the disease is an acute one. The child becomes ill, and in a few days the limb or limbs swell and are excessively tender to the touch, and the temperatui-e may rise to 101° Fahr., or more. The commencement is often herald^ by the appearance of ecchymoses beneath the conjunctiva, the skin of the eyelids or of the limbs. Proptosis from hsemorrhage beneath the periosteum of the orbit has been observed in a considerable number of cases. In some cases subcutaneous discoloration of the affected limbs is a prominent symptom. Beyond this, in about half the cases.