502 INJWIIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. lueaiorrliage. Non-penetrating wounds of arteries are very occa- sionally met with. The outer coat, or the outer and middle coats only, may be severed, but in these cases the inner coat subsequently gives way ; it is said to form a hernial swelling before it yields. A wound with a blunt knife has been known to divide the inner and middle coats witliout severing the tougher outer coat. Effects.—A longitudinal wound and a transverse one not exceeding one-fourth of the circumference of the artery, heal—if at all—without occluding the lumen of the vessel; they are, therefore, in this respect like punctured wounds, and, like them, liable to frequent repetitions of the haemorrhage from displacement of clot. If the wound down to an artery is oblique, or is closed by the treatment employed, blood may escape into the tissue about the incised artery, and an aneurysm form. The great symptom of these wounds is free ex- ternal haemorrhage. In the case of the largest artei’ies this is quickly fatal; in vessels of smaller calibre the fatal result is longer delayed, and may be pre- vented by coagulation of the blood when syncope occurs; even small arteries, when incompletely severed and unable to contract and retract, may be the source of very grave haemorrhage. When the main artery of a part is widely opened, the tissues it supplies are rendered more or less completely bloodless, and its branches pulse- less ; the degree to which this follows depends not only upon the size of the wound in the artery, but also upon the presence or absence of other channels of supply to the part. Treatment.—A completely-divided artery should be twisted or tied if blood is escaping from it; and this applies with special force to the distal end of the artery. In all cases of incomplete division of an artery—independently of the actual occurrence of haemorrhage—the treatment is to ligature the arteiy above and below the svound in it, and divide the vessel between the two liga- tures. The continuance of the stream of blood through an artery, which is the seat of a lateral wound, exposes the patient to serious danger, and should always be avoided. The important points to be specially borne in mind in the treatment of injured arteries are:—(1) To secure the total occlu- sion of every wounded artery ; no attempt must be made to obtain and rupture of the forming cicatrix. ABC D Pig. 137. A, LonRitudiual wound of an artery; B, oblique wound of an artery; 0, transverse wound of artery, extending about one-quanerof the circumference; D, transverse wound extending more than half across the artery.