612 ANEURYSM. is chosen, and the thumb is placed upon it with just sufficient force to_ stop all pulsation in the aneurysm ; it is not necessary completely to occlude the arteiy, and still less is it right to use such pressure as will light up inflammation or cause sloughing. The hand of even the strongest man quickly wearies unless the muscles are relieved by resting upon the thumb a weight of about 6 lbs.—a conical bag of shot is the best weight to use—then the pressure may be kept up for 20 to 30 minutes. Three assistants sho-uld be in attendance together : one compressing the artery, one with his hand on the aneurysm to regulate the amount of com- pression and to note its effect, and the third resting and ready to relieve the com- pressor. When the change of hands is made care must be taken to have the artery controlled by the fresh man before the weary one raises his thumb; and this, not only to protect the aneurysm from a sudden return of pulsation in it, but to secure that the pressure shall not be made upon exactly the same portion of skin and artery. The arteries that can be com- pressed digitally for the treatment of aneurysm are the common femoral, the common carotid, the subclavian, the axillary, and the brachial. Pig. 175.—Carte’s Artery Com- pressor for the Femoral Artery. The advantages of digital over compression other forms of are, that it is less painful than instrumental; more exact, for, in many cases, the pressure can be brought to bear upon the artery without involving the companion vein or nerves; the pressure can be better regulated both as to position, direc- tion, and amount by the finger than by an insentient compressor, and the skin of the thumb is less liable to gall that of the patient than any other substance is. Digital pressure can also be employed in two situa- tions at least, where instrumental pressure cannot—to the common carotid and sub- clavian arteries. On the other hand there are many situations where it cannot be used, and in all cases it is troublesome to carry out owing to the relays of assistants required. (6) Instrumental compression is carried out by various forms of tourniquets and artery compressors, which replace the thumb •, n . > more or less efficiently; the best are a conical bag of shot and Carte s compressor (Fie. 176b in which the force is elastic, and the direction Fig. 176.—Signoroni’s Tourniquet.