GS8 INJURIES OF NERVES. transplanted may either be taken from a recently killed animal, such as a rabbit, or from a freshly amputated limb. In either case it should be removed immediately before it is required, and should be placed in warm sterilised water (or in normal salt solution) pending its inser- tion into its new bed. Care should be taken that a sufficient length is cut to prevent any tension in suturing it in position; and, in removing the nerve from the animal or limb from -which it is taken, all pinching or holding with forceps should be avoided. IV. PRESSURE ON A NERVE. Nerves may be compi’essed in the most various -ways. Tims, tumours, and especially malignant ones, may involve the neighbouring nerve trunks, or may become adherent to the nerves. The brachial plexus is often thus involved in the axilla in cases of recurrent carcinoma of the breast. In other cases nerves are involved in inflammatory swellings—e.g. in inflamed glands of the neck—and more often are compressed by scars resulting from wounds of struc- tures near to the nerve trunks in the upper extremity. In other cases, again, as in deep-seated pelvic or gluteal suppuration, the neighbouring nerves may be compressed by abscesses. Dislocated or fractured bones may also cause pressure. In another class of cases, nerves are compressed by external objects, such as by crutches or by some implement used in work, whilst paralysis from pressure on the nerves of the arm during heavy sleep—especially in drunken sleep— is tolerably common. In most of these cases the pressure is gradual and its effects are only slowly developed. The first symptoms are commonly numbing and tingling pains, with sensations of “ pins and needles ” in the peri- pheral parts, and these arc succeeded by a slowly developing and seldom complete anaesthesia. The evidence of pressure on the motor nerve fibres is supplied by feebleness of muscle, with some tremor, and subsequently by complete pai'alysis. Thus, in crutch palsy, which is due to pressure of the crutches on the axillary nerves in a patient unused to their management, there is some numbness of the hand and fore-arm, with tingling, and subsequently loss of power in the extensors of the fore-arm, with “ wrist droj). ’ These symptoms are due to the compression of the musculo-spiral nerve against the humerus, this trunk being the most easily affected, on account of its proximity to the bone. In other examples, and especially in cases where there is some neighbouring inflammation, severe pain is the chief symptom, and many cases of so-called “ sciatica ” prove to be due to pressure on the sciatic nerve by an abscess or a pelvic tumour. Trophic lesions are more rarely developed and are usually of late Pressure by the contraction of scars is of sufficiently frequent occurrence to merit special mention. In some cases merely the terminations of sensory nerves are so included, but the results aie far more widespread than might be thought. The scar is often