598 ANEUItYSM each layer is smaller than the layer next outside it, an imbricated appearance is produced. Very often, however, the clots are pressed to one side of the sac, or the blood finds a path between the clots and the sac, and new coagula are deposited there, and then the oldest layers of a laminated clot may be in the centre; the growth of the aneurysm in a new direction is another way in which the order of deposit of clots may be varied. There is one sign by which the relative age of the layez’s of clot may be dctcrmined%nd that is their colour j the older a clot the more completely have the cor- puscles within it disintegrated, and therefore the whiter it is. The colour of a clot, indeed, is an index of age rather than of the mode of its formation. Old libiinous clots ai’e very resistant and may continue unaltered possibly for years. The coagula within an aneurysm are extremely important. In the first place they protect and strengthen the sac ; next, as we shall see later, they are the natural means of cure of the aneurysm j and, lastly, by partly filling up the sac they greatly reduce the pressure of the blood on the sac of the aneurysm and on the parts around it. This last is a very valuable function. The pressure on the wall of an aneurysm is in direct proportion to the ratio of its area to the transverse area of the artery from which it springs, and an aneurysm, from this point of view, may be regarded as a living Bramah press, and therefore the mere partial filling of the sac by a solid material—clot—by so much reduces the pressure of the aneurysm. As a result of this, aneurysms containing much clot increase slowly, if at all; and aneurysms without coagula grow very rapidly, and exert enormous pressure upon the sac and the surround- ing parts. The organisation of the clots can only occur when “ lymph ”— plasma-cells—can pass into them from the living tissue of the sac, and this is prevented by the movement of the clot on the sac with each ventricular systole; if any change takes place by which the clot is protected from this disturbance, then the layer next the sac quickly becomes adherent to it and converted into fibro-cellular tissue. One reason why this does not take place more readily is that the sac of an aneurysm is not, as a rule, lined by the tunica intima, the endothelium of which plays such an active part in the organisation of a thrombus in a vessel. The way in which coagula lead to the cure of the aneurysm will be dealt with farther on. The effects of aneurysm.—The effects of an aneurysm are partly those caused by the development and growth of a tumour— pressure effects—and partly those due to interference with the arterial circulation. Pressure effects.—The pressure of an aneurysm upon the parts around it, for the reason already given—that it is a “ living Bramah press ”—is much greater than that of any other kind of tumour, therefore the pressure effects are often of the liighest im- portance in the course of a case. The first and most constant effect of the pressure is to excite chronic inflammation in the immediately