DISEASES OF THE JAWS 924 tonics and a liberal diet; keep the mouth clean by the frequent use of astringent waslies. Alveolar abscess.—In the great majority of cases abscesses in connection with the alveolar borders of the jaws arise in the sockets of teeth, and are due to septic changes in the pulps of teeth, the roots of carious, or dead teeth. The simplest form of alveolar abscess is that known as “ gum- boil,” which is a small collection of pus immediately beneath the gum, and is almost invariably associated with a carious or dead tooth. The deep variety of alveolar abscess begins around the root of a tooth. The course of events in many cases is the followingA portion of the crown or neck of a tooth is slowly destroyed by caries, or by accident, and the pulp is exposed : septic inflammation follows and pus forms in the pulp chamber. The septic changes extend along the root or roots and establish suppuration in the socket of the tooth, giving rise almost invariably to “toothache,” which persists until the pus finds a way of escape. The pus may well up around the neck of the tooth, or so expand the alveolus in relation with it as to perforate the thin shell of bone, and burrow between the alveolus and muoo-periosteum ; it may then point in a variety of directions, according to the situation of the initial focus of suppuration. • t i In many cases it points at that portion of the gum immediately in relation with the tooth. Alveolar abscess in connection with a lateral incisor, second bicuspid, or first molar of the maxillary (uppei) set, will point in the roof of the mouth, or may even extend back- wards to the soft palate. An abscess connected with the central maxillary incisor will sometimes open on the floor of the nasal fossa. Pus connected with the second bicuspid, the first or second molar, may open into the antrum; when connected with any of the maxil- lary (upper) teeth it may open in the roof of the mouth, or any part of the cheek, and it has been known to point at the inner canthus or the orbit. , /i \ j. j-i An alveolar abscess connected with the mandibular (lower) teeth usually points on the gum or mucous membrane between the cheek and gum. In a severe case, it will burrow beneath the mucoms membrane and gain the connective tipue beneath the skin of the cheek and buccinator muscle. Pus will sometimes travel long dis- tances and point on the cheek, in the submaxillary region, at the chin, or even as low as the clavicle. Alveolar abscess pomting at the chin is usuaUy associated with the mandibular (lower) mcisors. ^ The signs of an alveolar abscess are, in the early stage, toothache: as the suppuration becomes established, pain and swelling of the jaw, furred tongue, raised temperature and other febrile symptoms, and enlargement of the adjacent lymph glands, and, in exceptional instances, pyiemia and death. i Tveatineiit.—Ascertain the cause, searching particulai y carious teeth, dead teeth, or hidden roots left behind during extraction.