288 ANMSTEETI08. common under chlorofor.n than under other anesthetics. Directly and contents, the colour of the face returns^ and no further trouble ensues. The cases of fatal vomiting syncope dent.l7 from the temporary asphyxia^ inci- dental to vomiting, acting upon a feeble heart. ^ 5. The after-condition of the patient. be administration of nitrous oxide to be fo bwed by any unpleasant after-effects. Headache, nausea, and omitmg may, however, occur, and are more prone to do so if the gas has been given very soon after a full meal, or if a double inhalation has been found necessary. After the use of chloroform or ether for a surgical operation the Fw f practicable, be turned upon his side, and then left perfectly undisturbed. In this position stertor will sub- side, mucus and saliva will drain away, and irritative cough will be prevented. The ansesthetist should remain by his patient till the conjunctival reflex has become fully established, and till respiration, which is liable to be interfered temporarily with during vomitino- has become regular and quiet. The room should be kept dark, noire prevented, visitors excluded, and sleep encouraged. Ether is more frequently followed by nausea or vomiting than chloroform, althoucrh the worst forms of persistent vomiting seem more common after chloroform. Elderly persons suflfer but little; whilst florid youn<^ men and young women are frequently greatly distressed. Alcoholic patients quickly recover consciousness, and may display surprisinc^ly few symptoms, even_ after protracted amesthesia. The mucus ejected after ether is frequently bile-stained; but it may be brownish (simulating beef-tea) from a minor degree of con (festive hsematemesis. The patient’s feelings are usually the best guide as to the in- terval which should elapse before nourishment is taken. As a rule, nothing should be allowed for about four hours, when some clear soup may be given. After short administrations, some tea or coffee with diy toast is usually permissible at the end of three hours. As to the treatment of distressing nausea and vomiting after ether or chloroform, it is best, in the flrst instance, to give draughts of very hot water, two or three ounces at a time, at intervals of a quarter or half an hour. Should this fail, hot strong cofiee, without milk or sugar, or some hot water with gr. 10 of bicarbonate of soda dis- solved in it, may be tried. Small doses of oxalate of cerium have proved useful in obstinate cases. The disagreeable taste left by ether is best relieved by allowing the patient to sPck a very thin slice of lemon from time to time. Tracheitis, bronchitis, pulmonary oedema, hemiplegia, albu- minuria, nephritis, uriemia, glycosuria, various forms of insanity, fatty degeneration of the heart and other viscera, and jaundice, have one and all followed the use of anaesthetics. These sequelae, however, are very rare.