476 TUMOURS. surface ; this surface may bo uniform, or covered with secondary processes, like a mulberry, or with long villous tufts. There are four species of papillomata; (1) Warts; (2) villous papillomata; (3) intracystic warts; (4) psammomata. 1. AATartS.—These are very common on the skin, but they also arise from mucous membrane covered with stratified epithelium. They occur singly or in great numbers, and are rarely painful, unless irritated. Crops of warts are common on the hands of children and on the scalp. They are often numerous on the glans penis, the anus, and labia when these parts are irritated by purulent discharges, especially that of gonorrhoea. Skin warts are overgrown papillae, and in section the epithelium wiU be found to pass from papilla to papilla in an unbroken line without invading the fibrous framework. A curious feature of mul- tiple warts is that they some- times appear in great number on the hands or scalp, and after persisting for some weeks, or even months, suddenly disappear as if by magic. A solitary wart may grow from any skin-covered surface, and persist. Such a wart may attain the dimensions of a walnut. Large solitary warts often contain black pigment. Fig. 120.—Wart-Hoi n from the ciieek. some become the SOUTCe (Museum, Middlesex Hospital.) , j. a j- ^ of melanomata. A wart occa- sionally grows very rapidly, and may reach the si^e of a bantam’s egg. Its surface ulcerates, and gives rise to a foul discharge, with a very oflensive odour. The cells covering cutaneous warts sometimes become transformed into horns—wart-homs (Fig. 120). (See Art. XXVIII, pages 708 and 710.) . Warts on mucous membranes are not so common as on tne skin, but they are apt to produce serious consequences, especially when they arise in the larynx (Fig. 121). Laryngeal warts in cluldren are often multiple; in adults they are less frequent, almost mvari- ably soHtary, and are frequently imitated by laryngeal epithelioma. 2. Villous papillomata.—These grow from the mucous mem- brane of the bladder, and occasionally from tlie pelvis of the kidney They consist of long-branched feathery tufts, i-esembling the villi of the chorion. The bladder wart consists of a connective- tissue axis traversed by delicate vessels surmounted by columnar or