528 INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. simplest and the best (Fig. 151). It consists of a miniature Higgin- son’s syringe without valves, and fitted with a proper silver cannula at each end of the rubber tube. The whole is immersed in and filled with warm saline solution, and then the cannulte are passed into the prepared veins in the “giver” and “receiver” of the blood. By closing the “ giver ” tube with the finger and thumb, and gently compressing the ball, it is emptied into the “ receiver’s ” vein ; if now the “receiver” tube is compressed, and the ball allowed to expand, it fills from the “receiver’s” vein. By repeating this manoeuvre, the desired amount of blood can be passed from the “gh'er” to the “re- ceiver.” If any diffi- culty is experienced in filling or emptying the syringe, it shows that clotting is occurring. Pig. I81.-Aveling’s Transfusion Apparatus. transfusion must be at once stopped When defibrinated blood is used—mediate Iransfiision—the simplest plan is to draw the blood into a wide-mouthed enamelled receptacle standing in a vessel of water at a temperature of 105“. After thoroughly “ whipping” it in this vessel, the blood is strained through fine muslin into a similar jar, also standing in water at 105°. This blood is then passed into the receiver’s vein by means of a silver cannula, with a tube and funnel attached, or a syringe, such as that of an aspirator, or an ordinary glass syringe. Since such excellent results have been obtained with saline injections,bothforms of transfusion have been abandoned. The much greater simplicity of this plan, its freedom from the risk of embolism, and the fact that it entails no sacrifice of blood by another, all com- mend it as superior to transfusion. The fluid used may be either boiled water containing a teaspoonful of common salt in the pint, or a solution containing 60 grs. of chloride of sodium, 3 grs. of chloride of potassium, 25 grs. each of sulphate of soda and carbonate of soda, and 2 grs. of phosphate of soda, in a pint of boiled water. The solution should be injected at a temperature of 100° F., and at least as much as 30 fl. oz. should be introduced; in some cases several pints have been injected. The injection should be made steadily, with little force and without the admission of air. A vein exposed in a wound may be chosen, or one of the subcutaneous veins at the elbow or the dorsum of the foot may be opened. Into the open vein a glass vulcanite or silver cannula is passed, to which a short length of rubber tube is attached, and the solution is injected by means of a glass syringe with a nozzle fitting the tube. Or a glass funnel and two feet of rubber tube may be attached to the cannula, and the solution poured into the funnel, raised eighteen inches above the patient. The syringe is, perhaps, the safer instrument, as there is