INJURIES OF BONES. 870 Fig. 329.—From a Photo- graph of a lecont Case of Fracture of the in- ternal Malleolus, and of the Fibula inch up, with Displacement inwards of the Foot. Early swelling about the ankle is shown. splint should be tixed below the knee first; then, the deformity being undone, the foot should be bandaged to the splint as shown. Some first bind the foot to the splint and use the latter as a lever to undo the de- formity — brute force instead of skill. The lower epipliy^iis of tlie fibula is rarely separated. In one case suppurative epiphysitis occurred. Arrest of growth with curvature of the tibia is a conceivable result. Treatment of fractures of the lower ends of the leg-hones.—In all cases in which dislocation exists it must be corrected with the knee fully flexed to relax the tendo Achillis. Some are very difficult to overcome, and the attempt to do so has been abandoned after section of the tendo Achillis had failed. But, with antiseptics to help us, failure should no longer be the case. Most of these deformities from unreduced frac- ture dislocations have been operated upon after many months, and with good result: they would be easier to deal with after the early extrava- sation has subsided. No directions can be laid down for such operations ; success in each case depends on a correct appreciation of the state of matters coupled with a good deal of ingenuity and operative skill. Cases without deformity, or in which de- formity has been reduced, should be put up with one or other of the splints used for frac- tures of the leg, or in a large mass of cotton wool firmly bandaged. In cases of marked eversion some use Dupuytren’s splint (Fig. 331). This, which is a “long splint” in miniature, should be padded with increasing thickness from the knee down to the ankle: here the pad should be thick enough to permit inversion of the foot without contact with the splint. The Fig. 880. Fracture of the two Malleoli with Displacement back- wards of the Foot, causing a prominence above the ankle in front, projection of the heel, and extension of tlie foot. (From a cast in the University College Museum, No. 324.)