279 A. G. E. MIXTURE. • nxT oviop from surffical sliock, impsnding circulatory depression, ^ ‘ administration of an over-dose. vomiting, inadequate biea »> ^ launutely-contracted -r'Vrt.t by no ilns neZarily. moans a ..then light p„p,l ns mlly. bn^ y ,u proper “n* Zn antsteir A^modevatelyilated or dilated pupil may chloroform ansestnesia. a „„epstliesia. In some cases a either moan a deep oi o ,i perfectly established widely-dilated pupil is ^ , patient has anesthesia The pupil is of ttle u^e as a uide t ^p^ been ,,j„,e taferences moie^ or less of deglutition. This is absent m deep restLsr (7)^The state of tbe“muscular system. (8) Phonated “tatry' soLL These point to moderately latest Bv chlovoform witli Juiilsei’s appaiatus—ihe latest form of this inhaler is represented in Fig. 52. ^ bellows air is made to bubble through the chlorofonn in the bottle thus becoming charged with anaesthetic vapour. The face-piece into which this chloroform-laden air is pumped should fit the face loosely, L that the vapour may be freely diluted with fresh air. Havmg made certain that the inhaler is in work- ing order, the ansesthetist should ap^ply the face-piece with one hand, whilst he pumps gently, steadily, and rhythmically with the other. The great advantage of Junker’s inhaler I that a mor? or loss equable and Wl-dduted chloroform yapom may be continuously administered. Its disadvantages are that its maLgement occupies a considerable share of _ the anajsthetist s attention, and that diSaculty may be experienced in producing deep anesthesia with it, especially in vigorous or alcoholic su%cts. But Junker’s inhaler is of great value for keeping up anesthesia during operations upon the mouth or nose. For these cases a bent metal mouth tube, or a silk catheter for_ introduction tln-ough the nose, may be attached to the flexible exit tube of the inhaler, in place of the face-piece. The modified Mason’s gag of Fig. 53 is useful in some cases; the flexible tube of Jlinker’s apparatus being attached to the metal tube running along the arm of the gag. 10. By the A. C. E. mixture.—This mixture, which consists of one part of alcohol, two of chloroform, and three of ether (George Harley), may be conveniently administered by means of a Skinner s or Rendle’s mask (Figs. 50 and 61). For infants and young children the former may be used throughout; but for adults the latter should be substituted after partial amesthesia has been secured. The ansesthesia produced resembles that of chloroform in most respects; but respiration is deeper and circulation more active. There are two important points in administering this mixture : viz. Fig. 53.—^Mason’s Gag, fitted with Tubes for the Transmission of Chloroform V apour.