461 neuromata. onrl 1 alioma of the occipital lobe will project into the nSS cornu Uke an additional thalamnc. The best illustratron ffJhe indehniteness so characteristic of a glioma comes out m a of the , -gt known as “gliomatous enlargement Sth“ po"wch is occasionally met with in children between six ^'^^GUomata^are *very rare tumours in the spinal cord. Judging from Uie scanty records, a glioma is twenty times more frequent in the brain than in the spinal cord. 8. Neuromata. Neuromata are tumours growing from, and in structure resembling the sheath of, a nerve. The genus contains three species. (1) Neuro-fibroma; (2) plexiform neuroma; (3) traumatic neuroma 1. Neuro-fibromata. — Structurally, neuro-fibromata consist of connective tissue continuous with that of the nerves from whm thev m'ow They are furnished with a distinct capsule, which is Ltinuous with the neurilemma, and from which the tumour is easily enucleated. , , ,. Neuro-fibromata are very liable to myxomatous degeneration, and in large specimens this change may lead to the fomation o cavities in the tumours. {See Fig. 94.) This accounts for the various names applied to neuromata, such as myxoma, myxo-fibroma, cystic myxoma, myxo-sarcoma, and neuro-myxoma. 2. Plexiform neuromata. — This species is, m companson with the preceding, somewhat rare. Instead of forming distinct tumours as in the case of simple neuromata, it seems as the branches of a nerve distributed to a particular area became thickened and elongated. Such nerves in section have an appearance bke that presented by the umbilical cord, due to the presence of a large quantity of myxomatous tissue in the sheath of the nerve. Plexi- form neuromata are, as a rule, congenital, and are apt to arise in pimnented moles. Sometimes the thickened nerves are embedded in”tissue similar to that which forms the folds in molluscum fibrosum. 3. Traumatic neuromata. — This species comprises the “ bulbs ” which form on the proximal ends of divided nerves, and on nerve ends in amputation-stumps. A fuller consideration of neuromata will be found in the article dealing with diseases of nerves (page 698); but it is necessary to point out the difficulty which surrounds the classification of neuromata. The term has been in use since the early yeais of thi.s century to indicate any tumour of a nerve. The advance of histo- logical knowledge has demonstrated that some nerve-tumours are fibi'ous, others are myxomatous, while a few are sarcomatous in structure. Some even consist of fat. Thus it would be better to speak of fibroma, myxoma, sai’coraa, and lipoma of nerves as we speak of sarcoma or chondroma of a bone. It is of interest to draw attention to the fact that the gelatinous