MILITARY SURGERY. 240 may be extremely narrow, and difficult to follow. Very rarely is a distance°°"'^^®*^^''' for some As regards the merges, the main trunks, frequently from their deep position and lax attachment, escape injury. Their branches are, however, more liable to be damaged. They may be contused and ciushed, cut across or perforated (e.g. the sciatic). Various symp- toms due to loss of motion and sensation are present, more especially the former, sensation being less influenced from the collateral com- munications that are naturally present. As sequelae, trophic changes may occur, atrophy of muscle, lividity and gangrene of the skin, and even necrosis of bone. The neuritis and sclerosis of the nerve at the focus of mjury may extend far beyond it, even to the great C0H uI*©S, The blood-vessels may be either simply contused or their walls completely or partiaUy divided. With the old round bullet arteries had more chance of evading the missile, on account of its less velocity and penetrating power. Owing to the smaller size, pointed end and greater velocity of the magazine bullet, arteries in future wars will less frequently escape. Delorme holds that in the immense majority of cases the ballet contuses or cuts out a piece of the vessel on meeting it. Gahde states that arterial lesions are less common where only the soft parts are wounded than where fractures have occurred. Where the vessels are simply contused, the projectile (havin<^ somewhat feeble velocity) causes an effusion of blood in the sheath of the vessel: this infiltration may be subsequently absorbed. If a main artery be affected, gangrene from thrombosis may occur, especially where the vein is also wounded, or secondary hsemor- rhage from ulceration in the vessel-wall may ensue. Where the trunk of the vessel is wounded as well as contused it may be the seat of a lateral wound, or it may be completely cut across. The danger of fatal haemorrhage is greater with the former. False aneurysm may occur at the seat of a wound in an artery, although shot wounds less frequently give rise to aneurysm than punctured wounds. Arterio-venous aneurysm may likewise result. In cases of wound of the large veins of the neck, the entrance of air into the veins has occuri’ed : the liability to this accident must be borne in mind, when the surgeon has to extract a bullet in this neighbour- hood. The diagnosis of a wound of a vessel is in some cases rendered easy by noting the site, the absence of pulsation in the vessel below, and the pulsatile character of the haemorrhage ; but if the wound be small and the tissues greatly infiltrated, the diagnosis may be diffi- cult. Wahl notes as an important sign of only partial wound of the wall, namely, a buzzing noise at the seat of wound, synchronous with the pulse : this is absent if the vessel be completely cut across. Injuries of bones and joints.—The injuries received as the result of the impact of a bullet on the bones are influenced chiefly by the form of the missile, by the structure of the bone, and by