SPRAINS. 947 Bruisina: or effusion of ^lood at the epiphjsial line may lead to subsequent arrest of growth^ and this is important from a prognostic poihf^f Anew. Tllf^ed blo^ is usually absorbed, but fibrinous masses may long remain in a large joint, as the knee. Portions of bone or articular cartilage may become permanently detached after a severe blow, but this is comparatively exceptional, the loose bodies found after these accidents being usually pre-existing inflammatory formations broken off by the violence. Anchylosis may follow any severe crush of a joint. This is usually fibrous, as the cartilages are not entirely removed. Should the injury be compound, and followed by suppuration and destruction of cartilage, osseous anchylosis (synostosis) may eventuate. Slight contusions may also be followed by tuberculous disease of the bone in predisposed delicate indjividuals, by alSscess and central necrosis of the articular ends, and lastly, by the rapid growth of a soft sarcomatous tumour. The latter affection is rare, but it may be readily confounded with abscess, unless an exploratory punctui’e be employed. Contusions and sevei’e sprains of the larger joints in elderly persons may originate a kind of chronic arthritis, associated with roughening of the articular surfaces, calcareous deposits, “ lipping ” of the articular margins of the bones, in fact, many of the changes commonly attributed to chronic rheumatoid arthritis. In the hip, absorption of the head of the bone may occur, with consequent shortening. After a severe contusion of this ai’ticuiation, gradual shortening with grating and creaking on motion, and lame- ness with loss of power over the articulation, are familiar to surgeons. Some of these cases are, doubtless, overlooked fractures of the neck of the femur. The majority can only be explained as the con- sequences of chronic arthritis originated by the injury. Treatment.—Crushes of a joint implicating the bone ends, and rupturing the main vessels, demand amputation. As a ride, very extensive bruises are weU recovered from, if only the skin remains intact. All the efforts of the surgeon should be directed towards subduing the subsequent inevitable severe mflammation. The ice- bag or Leiter’s tubes should be used with caution, if the skin be much bruised or likely to perish. The limb should be well elevated and carefully fixed in splints; the patient, if robust, kept on low diet, with occasional purgation. In strong young adults, either in sprains or contusions, when there is intense inflammatory reaction, free application of leeches may be practised with the best results. Should suppuration set in, or necrosis ensue, the complications must be treated on general pi’inciples. Continuous immersion in warm baths, or continuous irrigation will often give excellent results in compound crushes of joints. The stream of Avater in irrigation must be free, and flow from a large receptacle raised above the bed. By this means compound crushes of the larger joints may now be saved, which formerly would have been condemned to amputation. I strongly advocate this treatment. Sprains of joints.—A sprain may be defined as a wrench or