666 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS. excites an inflammation of tlie vessel, and particularly of its outer coats, which, spreading to the surrounding tissue, causes a peri- lymphangitis ; the affected vessel can then be perceived superficially as a thickened cord beneath the skin. The contents of the vessels are increased by the cells from the intima, by white blood corpuscles, and later by pus. The inflammation may subside and the lymphatics regain their natural condition, but localised abscesses may form, and, bursting on the surface, will lead to a complete obliteration of the vessels in which they arise. AVhen tliis happens in tlie deeper chain of lymphatics, a very severe and extensive cellulitis may ensue. Symptoms.—The afiection is first notified by pain and throb- bing, with great tendeniess at the site of origin, around which there appears a red areola. E,adiating from this spot, the skin of the arm or leg be- comes marked with red stri;e, Avhich some- times coalesce to form an erysipelatous area. Although marking the course of the lymphatic vessels, these strise are much broader than the vessel itself, and are lost as they approach the next set of glands, disajipearing at the elbow or popliteal space, and never extending be- yond the axilla or groin. At the same time pyrexia supervenes, and may be extreme, with rigors of more or less frequency. The principal pain is seated in the region of the glands, but there is great tenderness along the line of the vessels, which are evident as bal’d cords beneath the skin. The inflammation is more often acute than chronic, and in the former case may last only a few days, and terminate in resolution, the parts returning to a normal state. But if, as is usual, pyogenic organisms have formed part of the infecting virus, and suppuration takes place, abscesses will form at various parts in the course of the vessels, and the case may last for many weeks, and the abscesses may not close until the granulations lining their cavities have been scraped or treated with some such caustic antiseptic as a solution of chloride of zinc. When the deeper set of lymphatics is involved, the superficial redness is not so marked, but the pain is deep-seated and severe, and there is oedema along the whole Fig, 1S8.—Lupus Lyuipliaticus. (From a drawing in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Museum.)