778 INJURIES OF RONES. would certainly result from the retention of a bit of cloth. Then an antiseptic of suitable strength should be applied to the edges, sides, and depth of the wound. The stronger solutions are best applied with a bit of sponge or wool held in sinus forceps; the more dilute, in quantity by means of an irrigator or Higginson's syringe with a long fine nozzle-—such as a glass female catheter. The pressure should be low, and there should always be ample space for the escape of fluid, lest it be injected into connective tissue planes. Sometimes parts which are very deeply infected are best treated by excision—e.g. the end of a protruding fragment or crushed edges in cases due to direct violence. An anaesthetic is often necessary for thorough disinfection. The occurrence of emphysema, even widespread, does not involve extensive infection, for the air is filtered by the tissues of the wound, through which it is forced by movements of the part. When the hone is comminuted, fragments found absolutely loose are removed, those still attached to soft parts are left. Theoretically, in an aseptic wound, loose fragments should not require removal, for it is unnecessary in simple cases, and pieces of bone can be transplanted. Nevertheless, such fragments often die, and either come away or require removal later. Even the ends of the main fragments, stripped of periosteum, not uncommonly die, and are cast off like any other sequestrum; so some would excise more or less of the end of a fragment from which the periosteum was widely stripped. There is a clear objection to the practice; a gap in a bone is likely to lead to weakness, deformity, or non-union, especially if it occur in one of two parallel bones, the other pre- venting shortening (Fig. 224). Where there is no alternative, then the second bone should be shortened by excision of a sufficient piece. The variation in frequency of necrosis in different statistics is so striking that one cannot help concluding that it is the less frequent the greater the success of antiseptic surgery in the clinic. Another difficulty may have to be dealt with, viz. hannorrhage. Oozing sometimes goes on even for days without there being a vessel of any size wounded j this is best met by elevation and uniform pressure over a gauze and wool dressing, covering a considerable area round about the wound. The case would seem suitable for the administration internally of chloride of calcium, as recommended by Wright. If the bleeding be too free to be regarded as oozing, and is not checked by the above remedies, search must be made for its source, the wound being opened up if necessary, and the frag- ments turned out as carefully as possible, so as not to increase the detachment of periosteum. _ , • . Rc<lioctioi» is effected as in a simple fracture, but assistance may often be rendered by a finger in the wound; difficulty in re- ducing a protruding fragment may necessitate enlargement of e wound, or even removal of the protruding portion. ^ ... When, in a compound fracture, there is difficulty in maintaim'i^ reduction, one or two holes should be drilled through the fragments.