INHERITED SYPHILIS. 429 femur are favourite sites, and in Fig. 90 a spindie-like enlargement above and below the elbow-joint is seen, due entirely to periostitis and osteitis of the arm and fore-arm bones. It is not difficult to mistake this condition for strumous disease of the joint itself, and there is no doubt that the articulation is occasionally affected with chronic synovitis in cases of bone disease duo to syphilis; but the facts that the bone-enlargement extends far from the joint, is accom- panied by considerable aching pain (usually worse at night), and that the joint-movements are but little impaired, should lead to a right diagnosis apart from the existence of other signs of inherited syphilis. Nodes may form at any part of the bony shaft, and a. general osteitis of almost the whole length is not un- common in the tibia, fibula, fore-arm bones, etc. Sclerosis, or the formation of dense rings of new osseous deposit, which encroaches on, and perhaps obliterates, the medul- lary canal, as well as greatly increasing the thickness of the bone, is the almost in- variable form of osteitis met with in late inherited syphilis. Caries and necrosis are liable to supervene, possibly as the result of some added trauma- tism, or from starvation of some part of the bone by obliteration of its blood- vessels. Here again the process is an excessively slow one. The denuded sequestrum or carious patch is hard and pitted, as though “ worm-eaten,” often blackened by long exposure. Interference with the surgeon’s gouge or chisel is of use here, in order to hasten the process of elimination. A very curious and interesting feature is the abnormal growth in length which occurs when this chronic syphilitic osteitis develops and exists for some years before, or even after, puberty. The affected tibia and fibula, for example, become, actually longer than the femur, and remain so throughout life. The change is generally symmetrical. Further, the inflamed bone has the appearance of being bent or curved (usually forwards), and sometimes this curving is real as well as apparent. Probablj' from destruction of the epiphysial disk of cartilage, the bone affected with syphilitic disease may become not longer, but Pig. 90.—Enlargement of lower half of left Humerus, Eadius, and Ulna from Osteitis and Periostitis due to inherited Syphilis. The patient was a young woman aged twenty years.