CIIARGOT8 DISEASE. 701 cord tnii-y ftlso ©nsuG upon discuso. ^XlicrG rciuftin, Iiowgvoi, corttiiii pfitliological procGSses wliicli are peculiar to patients affected witli disease of the cord, and these merit a more detailed description. Charcot’s disease; tabetic arthropathy.—Charcot’s disease is a form of arthritis allied to osteo-arthritis which is usually de- veloped in cojinection with tabes dorsalis, but is also seen as a rare complication of syringomyelia, itself a rare disease. It is met with in but a small percentage of cases of tabes, and often commences when the tabetic symptoms are but little marked, or even un- noticed by the pa- tient. V ery fre- quently it occurs be- fore there is any evidence of ataxic gait. In many cases the disease is of sud- den onset, the affected articulation becom- ing distended with fluid within twenty- four hour’s, and the swelline: being un- attributable to any apparent cause. This swelling of the joint is often accompanied by a swelling of the neighbouring soft tissues, which do not, however, pit on pres- sure to any extent. Pig^. 195.—Anotlier View of the Femur and Tibia shown in In some instances the effused fluid is absorbed, and the joint returns to its natural condition ; but in others—which are, unfortunately, the more common—the effusion is but the commencement of a series of changes, which rapidly termi- nate in the destruction of the articulation. Within a few weeks or months of the -first attack the patient notices that the joiirt gets weaker, and gives way under him ; and vei-y rapidly the articulation becomes so loose and freely movable that in many cases dislocation ensues (Figs. 194, 195). ITIoi’bid changes.—An examination of such a joint shows changes very similar to those of osteo-arthritis, but, especially in the case of the bones, the lesions are much more extensive. The thick- ening of the synovial membrane and the formation of fringes on it, the fibrillation and wearing away of cartilage, the growth of ecchondroses, and the wearing away and destruction of ligaments, are so similar to the lesions of osteo-arthritis that they need no special description (Fig. 194). a LIBSMW Hi