GONOGOGGUS. 0<) w</ fevor, in false membranes along witli the diphtheria bacillus, in abscesses and inflammatory processes, especially those connected with the buccal and nasal mucous membranes, in cases of peritonitis, in various forms of otitis, in fact wherever superficial pus-formation is met with ; in furuncles, pustular skin eruptions, erysipelas, and phlegmonous inflammations, especially those of badly nourished patients, or in those in whom there is any interference with the removal of excretions, or where there is ansemia, especially follow- ing hfemorrhage. These streptococci, then, must be looked upon as the pus-forming organisms par excellence, although they can only exert their full pus-forming function when the surgical conditions are favourable. Micrococcus gonorrhcese (Plate II. Fig. 12; see also Fig, 93). —This organism was first described and separated from gonorrhoeal pus by Neisser in 1879, who named it the Gonococcus. In 1885 Bumm succeeded in growing it by spreading pus, containing a large number of gonococci, out on a thin layer of consolidated human blood serum and keeping it at a temperature of 30° to 34° 0. in a moi.st atmosphere. It forms a very thin, smooth, moist layer, almost invisible, but having, when seen by reflected light, a greyish yellow colour. It dies out very rapidly—at the end of two or three days. More recently, it has been found possible to grow this organism in a mixture of equal parts of agar-agar and blood serum. It has also been grown on the white of egg of the peewit and in the fluid removed from the joint in a case of synovitis. Bumm was able to produce typical gonorrhoea by inoculating the human urethra with a third and even with a twentieth culture of the gonococcus, but he failed to produce the disease in the lower animals. When suppuration is well advanced, other organisms, such as the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, are usually found along with the gonococcus, so that this latter organism appears to prepare the way for suppuration, rather than to be the actual setiological factor. It is found in the cells of the gonorrhceal discharge or on the surface of the detached epithelial cells, and occui-s most frequently and in greatest numbers in the early stages of the disease. In sections it is seen to be specially numerous in the cement substance between the epithelial cells. When the discharge fi’om an acute case of gonorrhoea is stained and examined, the micrococci ai’e seen to consist of pairs or fours of organisms, each of which is composed of two biscuit-shaped ends with a zone or belt of unstained material between, an arrangement already noted in the elements of some of the streptococci. In consequence of this arrangement, the organism, or perhaps the pair of organisms, is usually slightly longer than broad---8^ to 1 -Qp long, and Qp to -8/i broad. The gonococcus dill'ers tiom the staphylococci and streptococci already described, in that it is not stained by Gram’s method, all colour being removed by the 1. (See pacre 51.1 It is bn.st at,n.inpd wif.li gentian violet or iodine solution. (See page 51.) It is best stained with metliyl-violet gentian violet or fuchsin ; more slowly but very distinctly with’ methylene blue. (See Art. XXI.)