907 TUMOUBS OF BONF. beneath the periosteum in a young subject, on account of the osteoblasts. The writer has tried transplanting portions of a long bone with its periosteum from a puppy for a case of un-united fracture witli deficient bone formation. The wound suppurated, so that, although a successful union was obtained after many previous failures, it i.s doubtful how far the result was due to the transplantation. More will be done in this direction now that wounds can be made to heal without the intervention of .strong antiseptics, which must in- juriously affect the young cells in the transplanted bone. TUMOURS OP BONE. The general pathology of tumours is given at page 443, but it is necessary here to go more fully into the clinical history and treat- ment of these diseases in relation to the bones. Osteomata. — Of the innocent tumours, we may refer first to the osteomata. We know nothing of their aetiology except the fact that in the multiple osteo- mata, occurring about the epiphysial lines of the long bones, they appear very frequently to be hereditary. There are two varieties : the ivory and the cancel- lous osteoma. (Nee pa"e 455.) ° .V The ivory osteoma occurs chiefly on the flat bones, such as those of the skull orbit, scapula, and pelvis. It is of remarkable density, resembling throughout its structure, to whatever size it luav attain, the cortical bone from which it springs. It is generally sinMe and causes little mconvenience except in special localities, such as the frontal sinuses, orbit, auditory canal, or the interior of the skull, (.bee hig^ iUl.) It may attain a largo size, and totally obstruct a canal like that of the ear; or, distending the frontal sinus, displace the eye; or, growing within the skull, interfere with the functions of the brain But except in this way, from slowly increasing pressure on mportant parts, it has no direct influence upon the life of the patient. ^ osteoma is a far more common 348.—Osteomata (a) close to Epiphysial Line of Femur. Each is cajipecl with cartilage, whilst its base IS continuous witli the cancellous tissue of the shaft. (St. Thomas's Hospital Museum, No. GOl.)