657 FEMORAL ANEURYSM. pressure of the surrounding parts causes the tumour to assume a more flattened outline. Aneurysm of tiie profimda femwis artery occasionally occurs. It is distinguished from femoral aneurysm, which it closely simulates, by the fact that the pulse in the popliteal and tibial arteries is the same on the two sides, and that the unaltered femoral artery can be traced pulsating over the side of the tumour in the upper part of the thigh. Traumatic aneurysms in connection with the superficial or deep femoral artery are met with, and they may be circumscribed or “ diffused,” and in the latter case the swelling attains a great size. Varicose aneurysm has been met with at the groin, and anexmjsmal varix both at the groin and in Hunter’s canal. Sponiaxieous cure of femoral aneurysm sometimes occurs, but the more frequent natural termination of the disease in this situation is rupture externally and death from hsemorrhage. Treatmeiif.—Eest and constitutional measures, combined with slight direct pressure, may prove successful. The other surgical measures that may be employed in cases of spontaneous aneurysm are compression by Esmarch’s bandage, digital or instrumental compression of the common femoi’al artery, and the proximal ligature. Either the external iliac, common femoral, or superficial fejnoral artery may be tied. If there is room above the aneuiysm the ligature should be placed upon the superficial femoral trunk. Ligature of the common femoral artery has been discarded by many surgeons on account of the danger of hsemorrhage, owing to the proximity to the ligature of one or more of the branches of the artery, and also because the' anastomotic circulation is less free when this artery is ligatured than when either the external iliac or the superficial femoral artery is tied. With an aseptic ligature so applied as not to sever any of the arterial coats, the danger of hsemorrhage can be obviated, and the operation has found more favour of late. Ligature of the external iliac artery is, however, preferred by some surgeons; it is liable to fail on account of the extreme freedom pf the anastomotic circulation. In a case where this happened, Mr. Rose excised the aneurysm with complete suc- cess, and this example should be followed in similar cases. Aneu- rysm of the profunda femoris artery is to be treated by compression or ligature of the common femoral trunk. Circumscribed traumatic aneurysm is treated like spontaneous aneurysm, but the diffused variety can only be dealt with by cutting into the swelling, turning out the clot, and applying a ligature above and below the mouth of the sac. For varicose aneurysm of the groin, the external iliac artery has been tied, but witliout success, and it would be better in any such ca«se to tie the artery above and below the opening into the sac. Ligature of both the common femoral artery and vein exposes the patient to great risk of gangrene. Aneurysmod varix in tlie groin should be treated by elastic support 3 in a case of aneurysmal varix