182 PYEMIA. “pulmonary apoplexy” is applied to lung in this condition. The remains of a septic embolus may be found in a pulmonary vessel at the apex of the wedge. The lung tissue around the infarct is in- flamed, and the whole has undergone changes which end in abscess. In the opaque whitish patches the various stages of an acute broncho-pneumonia ending in suppuration may be traced. In the centre is thin pus, then a zone of more solid greyish white lung, and next a zone of acute broncho-pneumonia. The pleura over these infarcts and abscesses is sometimes inflamed; the pleural sac may contain pus or blood-stained fluid, and its surface may be covered with rough lymph full of streptococci or staphylococci. Infarcts and abscesses are commonest at the surface of the lungs and around the interlobular fissures. Small miliary abscesses are frequently found in the substance of the lungs. When pyaemic abscesses occur in the liver they are nearly always small and multiple, and scattered over its surface. Tropical abscesses, on the other hand, are usually single and of large size. Dr. Wilks is of opinion that pysemic abscesses are commonest at the back of the right lobe of the liver, which, as he points out, is the most dependent part when the patient is on his back. In pyaemia abscesses seldom occur in the liver alone but are met with together with abscesses in the lungs, joints, muscles, and other organs. The spleen is usually enlarged to nearly a half moi-e than its usual size. It is dark purple and studded with infarcts and ab- scesses, similar to those in the lungs. The kidneys are swollen, mottled grey and red, and engorged with blood, so that the stellate veins, glomeruh, and vessels of the medulla stand out as if injected. Small haemorrhages are common in the cortex. Towards the capsule and at the junction of the cortex and medulla are round or linear patches of suppuration, surrounded by zones of acute nephritis. Pus is sometimes met with in the interior of the kidney. Disseminated suppurative nephritis may be extensive without presenting much change to the naked eye (Ziegler). In this the vessels are dilated, and some of the capillaries filled with micrococci. Around the glomeruli and smaller veins numbers of leucocytes are extravasated, and are the beginning of abscesses (Fig. 33). The renal epithelium is granular, degenerated, and de- tached. The lumen of the tubules contains granular debris, albu- minous coagulum, leucocytes, and often bacteria. Extravasation of red corpuscles is also found between and within the tubules. The suppurations which occur in the cellular tissues, muscles, bones, brain, testes, ovaries, eyes, and elsewhere call for no special description. In pycemic arthritis the joint cavity is distended with thin pus, which usually contains streptococci. {See Fig. 31.) The synovial membrane is swollen and inflamed. The articular cartilages are ulcerated, especially round their edges. In advanced cases the bones may be carious, and periarticular abscesses may form. As a rule several joints are affected in pyjemic arthritis; the knee, elbow. J