INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS. breaks down again ; or remains open, and becomes the seat of a dull, persisting suppuration, or of an ulcer possessed of specilic characters. This, perhaps, more often happens when the incision involves tissues which have previously been damaged by syphilitic disease. Thus it comes to pass that plastic operations not infre- quently fail in syphilitic persons, especially when performed for the relief of deformities produced by some destructive manifestation of the disease itself. The healing of fractures has been noticed to be delayed occasionally in the subjects of syphilis, and repair to follow when the patient is put under specific treatment. Rheumatism and gout have practically no effect upon the immediate future of an operation. The wound heals kindly and well. It is unnecessary to say that an operation should if possible not be performed duiing an outbreak of either of these conditions. It must be remembered, also, that any of the sequelae of gout or rheumatism may complicate the issues of an operation. Such are the cardiac changes so often attendant upon the former disease, and the degenerations of the kidneys and other viscera which are apt in course of time to follow upon the latter. An operation not infrequently determines an attack of gout, but such attack usually has no noteworthy effect upon the progress of the wound. Verneuil remarks that gout sometimes manifests itself at the site of injury by fluxions with acute pains, which simulate frank inflammation, and which, although of a temporary character, may suspend or retard the healing process. Injuries involving the periosteum are apt to be followed by excessive action in that membrane when the patients are con- spicuously rheumatic. Cancer does not render a patient a bad subject for injury or operation. The result of the operation may be modified by other conditigns, such as the age and temperament of the subject, and the presence of visceral disease. Cancer as such appears to exercise no effect upon the healing process. Indeed, operations for the re- moval of malignant growths in old and broken-down individuals often do remarkably well. Anaemia, especially when due to loss of blood, has no special effect upon a surgical wound. The healing may be slow; the patient is perhaps rendered unduly liable to the more serious complications which follow upon wounds, and has little power to meet such misfortunes. LeuCOCythsemia has a most disastrous influence upon opei’ation wounds. Splenectomy, although performed many times in the sub- jects of leucocythsemia, has been followed by one uniform result— the patients have died. Serious, if not fatal, results have followed in less grave procedures, and in the leucocythaemic person even a trivial operation is danger- ous. They stand in great peril of haemorrhage, and become the ready subjects of low forms of inflammation, of cellulitis, and allied conditions