SPORES. conditions and to bactericidal agents than are the vegetative organisms. JNIost of the vegetative organisms when desiccated rapidly lose their vitality—the cholera bacillus, the typhoid bacillus, and others some- times succumbing in as short a period as twenty-four hours. Spores, on the other hand, may be dried, treated with chemical reagents, if not too strong, and if, after all, they are again placed in favourable conditions, they develop into this vegetative form, the .spore ger- minating out like a seed, the endosporium making its way through the membrane which becomes ruptured either at the end or the side, as the case may be. The importance of the study of the conditions under which these spores may be produced is well seen on considering the method of formation of spores by the anthrax bacillus when it has attacked an ox. During the life of the animal, whilst the bacillus is confined to the blood and lymph spaces in the tissues, it will be found that not a single spore is developed, and if the animal be buried deep down, with an unbroken skin, and befoz’e the discharges from the nostrils and other orifices of the body have been allowed to come in contact with the air for any length of time, no spores will be developed, and the anthrax bacillus will die out as the cai’case becomes decomposed. Should the animal be left exposed for any length of time, however, wounds being made in the skin and dis- charges flowing from the various orifices, the bacilli as they come into the presence of air soon form spores which resist the action even of putrefactive organisms, and may remain a source of infection on a farm for some time after the animal has been buried. Splashes of blood, or of dischai-ges, all represent foci from which the spores may spread, and gain access to the manure heaps or other organic matter so plentiful about farms and at the margins of ponds, where they in turn may form dangerous infective centres. Similarly the spores of the organisms found in tetanus and malignant oedema are a constant source of danger in any soil to which they have once gained access. Spores seem to be very susceptible to the action of the actinic rays of light. A second form of spore described, but not yet thoroughly understood, is the arthrospore, which consists rather of a modified individual in a group of organisms than of a separate structure in an individual organism. For instance, it is held that a single element in a chain of cocci may become so modified as to be more resistant than its fellows, remaining alive after the others have been de- stroyed, resisting the action of the various unfavourable surround- iiigs, and then, when again placed in suitable conditions, developing, multiplying, and keeping up the species. 4. Culture diag^nosis.—At first sight it would appear to be hardly necessary to draw attention to the appearance of colonies of micro-organisms that have grown to such a size that they may be readily distinguished with the naked eye. But the distinct morpho- logical characters of micro-organisms are so few, that in order to classify bacteria we mu.st liave recourse to every fact that has yet