GUNSHOT FRACTURES. 243 smaller the calibre of the bullet the smaller^ and cleaner is_ the wound. The injuries may be (1) simple contusiom, with blood lufal- trated into the diploe, or under the periosteum ; the blood may then become absorbed, or where antisepsis is not attained, suppurative periostitis and osteitis follow with exfoliation. In the cranium abscess may form between the dura mater and bone. (2) VVitli yrac- tures only one table, the external, may be affected, where the ball has struck obliquely. Oases have been described where only the mternal table has been fractured. Other forms of lesion are fissures coni- plicating the fractures, separation of the sutures, furrowed wounds of the bones, lodgment after penetration, and perforation. Lastly, Ber<^mann has described cases of indirect fractures. At Plevna he met with six cases of fracture of the bone, which were held to be caused by the transmission of vibration from the part struck. A word may be said with regard to gunshot injuries ^ of the clavicle. These are especially dangerous from their liability to complicating lesions of the neighbouring large vessels, the subclavian and carotid, of the vagus nerve and brachial plexus, of the pleura and lung. ... Among the complications of bone gunshot-injuries are to be noticed yht embolism and iJiTomhosis of the main veins. In the first, the medullary fat is dislocated from its habitat and carried into the vessels, and thence it may reach the brain, lungs, or liver. If the emboli be large, death may ensue, with all the signs of apoplexy, or of pulmonary embolism. With regard to the sequelce resulting from inflammation of the affected bone, all gradations are met with from simple localised sequestra to acute infectious osteomyelitis. The latter is ushered in by repeated rigors and high temperature. The soft pai'ts covering the affected bone are deeply swollen, and severe pain ensues. The discharge becomes foul j if the bone be visible the periosteum is seen swollen and detached. Pyaemia and septicaemia quickly ensue. As the affection is due either to a specific organism or to the decomposi- tion of the wound discharges, this sequela should rarely occur at the present day. With regard to i\\& joint injuries, mention has already been made of some of them. Injuries of the joints may be either penetrating or the reverse. In the latter, the contusion of the soft parts overlying the joint causes a secondary synovitis, or a fracture in the bone may run up to but not into the joint. Contour wounds running round the joint, but without opening it, have been described. Perforations of the capsules of the knee and elbow joints, without simultaneous injury of the bones of these joints, have been described by Fischer, Langenbeck, and Bergmann. The diagnosis of a wound of the joiirt is tolerably easy with such joints as the elbow, but may be extremely difficult in the hip. A probe should never be used. Escape of synovia where present will, of course, indicate the lesion, but such esca])e is rare. The chief indications of the injury lie in the line of direction apparently taken by the missile, as shown by