41 SAPROPnY’TlO PAOTPBIA. grown on gelatine, forming flattened colonies, which are semi-trans- parent and slightly thicker at the centre, where there is a kind of dimpling; the growth has the appearance of an irregular leaf, with lobes and crenated margins. Along the puncture track of the needle in gelatine cultures there is a growth of white globules or points (discrete or running together to form a streak), some of which may be surrounded by a feathery growth (Fig. 5). On potato this organism grows luxuriantly in the form of moist shining colonies. When grown anaerobically gas is formed. A lai'ge dose, injected into the circulation of a guineapig, kills the animal within twenty-four hours, and the bacilli may be found in the blood in considerable numbers; but the condition is then of a toxic nature rather than of the nature of a true infection. If a small dose only is injected, the duration of the process is prolonged, and we have an affection much more like an ordinary septicaemia. When injected subcutaneously, or into the peritoneal cavity of rabbits or guineapigs, the quantity is a most important factor. With a small dose a local abscess may be produced, but the animal recovers; or peritonitis may be set up, from which the animal may also recover, even after a few organ- isms have been found in the blood. A large dose, however, gives rise to severe illness, accompanied by fever, diarrhoea, and great collapse ; there is hyper- semia of the spleen and of the upper part of the intestine, evidenced by the reddening of the mucous and jjeritoneal surfaces. Large quantities of this organism injected subcutaneously into dogs, give rise merely to abscess formation. The Bacillus coli communis is of special importance to the human subject from the fact that it is so frequently associated with peritonitis and suppura- 5.— Cultiva- tion in any region near the intestinal tract, down tion of the Ba- to the ischio rectal fossa. Indeed, Fraenkel and munisP°'' others maintain that in cases of peritonitis, espe- cially that form following wounds of the intestine, the inflammatory process is due to the presence of this organism in the abdominal cavity. That it is not the sole cause, however, is made clear by the fact that in certain cases the ordinary pus-forming organisms, or the Bacillus lactis aerogenes, and the Bacillus pneumonise have been found. 2. Bacillus lactis aci'o^cucs.—This oi’ganism, of import- ance only from the pathological point of view because it has been found in peritonitis, is usually met with in the ffeces of children and animals fed upon milk. It consists of short thick rods Ip to 2p long and 5p to 8p broad, with rounded ends, and is grouped in pairs or irregular masses. In gelatine tube cultures it grows luxuriantly in a characteristic c*