OERONIO ABSCESS. 99 the wall in all dii-ections. Subsequent to this treatment, one or two ounces of a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine are injected and left in the cavity, the skin wound and also that through the muscles being stitched up and an antiseptic dressing applied. As a result, the incision through the skin usually heals by first intention, and in a certain proportion of cases there is no reaccumu- lation of fluid in the cavity, the trouble being at once cured by a single operation. In other cases, however, while the skin wound heals, a certain amount of reaccumulation takes place in the cavity of the abscess, although it does not attain the same size as it was previously. This accumulation may with rest become again ab- sorbed, but in most cases it is best to re-open the wound, evacuate the fluid (which is usually a glairy, clear, dark brown material con- taining a quantity of iodine), scrape out the cavity again, and, either after injection of a fresh quantity of iodoform and glyceiine, or with- out such injection, stitch up the wound. In the great majority of cases permanent cure is obtained, either after the single operation or after repetition on two or three occasions. In a small number, however, not only does the fluid reaccumulate, but the line of incision which had healed by first intention breaks down and a sinus forms. These are generally cases in which either the recesses of the cavity have not been reached in the scraping and washing process, or where a bony sequestrum is present, or where the patients are unhealthy and Lave a great tendency to tuberculous disease. In such cases I have several times succeeded in getting a permanent cure by dissecting away the orifice of the sinus and its wall as it passed through the muscles, thoroughly scraping out the cavity in the manner previously described, and stitching up the wound once more. In some cases, however, in spite of repetition of this process, I have ultimately had to resort .to the old plan of aseptic drainage. As regards the treatment of the septic complications which occur where these abscesses are not opened with aseptic precautions, I need say very little at present, because this matter is referred to in the article on Wounds (page 222). Where, immediately following an in- cision into a psoas abscess, symptoms of septic intoxication occur, the clear indication is to make the external opening as free as possible, and wash out the decomposing fluid which is present in the cavity. This fluid should be washed out with some non-irritating antiseptic solution such as boracic acid, permanganate of potash, or' very weak sublimate solution, because the stronger antiseptic solutions will not in any way disinfect the cavity, but will injure the cells at the surface, and thus possibly provide an entrance for bacteria into the system. After openmg up such a cavity, a large drainage-tube should be introduced, and in some cases where the patient is very ill, it ruight be of advantage to arrange for some hours of constant irriga- tion through these tubes with one of the fluids previously mentioiied kept at the body temperature. K 2