treatment of gunshot wounds. 249 plaster of Paris. As regards splinters — where they are not numerous, and are not associated with much deformity, and are retainin" their connection with the periosteum—-the surgeon should not attempt to extract them, but after replacing them carefully, should antiseptically occlude the parts and immobilise the limb; the splinters will then consolidate with the rest of the bone. Should they lie free and detached from the periosteum, they may be re- moved. Where there is much loss of substance in the bone, and great deformity and mobility of the parts, the wounds should be enlarged with the usual precautions, the completely free splinters removed, and then if conservatism seem possible, the wound should be disinfected and drained, and the part immobilised. But where the bone is completely shattered, amputation is the only resource. As regards the treatment of gunshot fractures of the femur, James, of the United States Army, points out that where the knee-joint is not involved, the rule formerly laid down to am- putate in fractures of the middle and lower thii-ds of the bone should be disregarded, provided the patient can be treated near the battlefield. He holds that if the knee joint be implicated, and generally if the femur be comminuted more than six inches, it is best to amputate primarily if possible; but an intermediate ampu- tation is better than the risk of waiting for the secondary period. If conservatism be decided upon, let the surgeon remove all foreign bodies and loose or slightly-attached fragments of bone only, and all necrosed poi-tions as soon as they are loosened from the periosteum. A simple retention appai’atus with moderate extension by weight and pulley should then be provided, and the wound kept carefully antiseptic. The treatment of wounds of joints on the field.—^The joint should be syringed out with an antiseptic lotion, absorbent wool should then be applied, and the limb immobilised. At the hospital, if conservatism be decided on, counter-openings should be made, and the joint drained, and after trap-doors have been left, immobilised. For- merly a wound of a large joint necessitated amputation. This is not so now, although all joint-wounds are severe, and liable, espe- cially where antisepsis cannot be carried out, to induce pyaemia. The surgeon should incise the joint and remove all foreign bodies, and endeavour to arrest any inflammation. If this be not possible, then excision or amputation is the only course. As regards the individual joints, in the case of the shoulder (unless the injuries be very slight), excision has so far given the best results. For the elbow, conser- vatism has given better results than excision or amputation. The same may be said of the wi’ist. In the hip both amputation and excision have been attended with very fatal results. In the knee and ankle conservatism should always be employed, if possible. Rules for niiipiitatioii.—These cannot be emphatically laid down at the present time. Many gunshot wounds of the large joints are now treated successfully with conservatism which would formerly have been submitted, without a doubt, to amputation.