1133 8AGR0-ILIAC DISEASE. AFFECTIONS OF THE AMPHI ARTHRODIAL JOINTS. The most important of these are the articulations of the bodies of the vertebrte, of the pubic bones and of the sacrum on each side, with the ossa innominata. The first of these, considered in the Article on Diseases of THE Spine, need not be further alluded to here. Disease of the symphysis pubis.—Disease here is not at all common, and when met with is usually the result of septic inflam- mation in the course of pysemia or of tuberculous deposit. In the first case the local disease will take quite a secondary place to the general. It is mostly characterised by rapid swelling and efifusion over the joint, with redness and oedema. If left to itself the collection will burst, probably through the skin, but may make its way back- wards into the pelvis. The treatment is early evacuation and drainage. If the patient survive the general infection, it may be desirable subsequently to sci’ape out the carious surfaces of the joint; or if this is not adequate, to resect the diseased surfaces, wiring together the clean- cut ends. In tuberculous disease of this joint the proper treatment will be removal by goxiging and scraping of the softened tissue, and perfect rest for long periods on the back. When the patient is well enough to get up, a firm case of plaster-of-Paris closely fitting the whole pelvis, and running as low and as high as possible, will give much support. In operating upon such disease the aim should be to remove it before it has extensively invaded the surrounding parts, or has burst through the skin. When this is done it may be possible to secure primary union of the wound without any sinus. Disease of the sacro-iliac joint.—What has just been said of the symphysis pubis applies equally to this joint as regards its general pathology — namely, it may be the seat of secondary septic infection in the course of chronic or acute pyremia, or it may become infected with tubercle. It is not necessary to speak in detail of the first condition. If abscesses form in and about the joint, they are evacuated and washed out early. If the patient survive the general infection, the condition in the joint will probably heal in time with careful drainage, if not subsequently infected with tubercle. In any case convalescence will be very slow, and the recumbent position must be insisted on for months, bearing in mind the great strain put upon both joints in the erect position, and the probability of this being injurious if the process of healing is incomplete. Tiibci-ciiloiis tiisease of tliis Joint is one of the most serious conditions possible, and until within the last few years was considered by all who gave special attention to the subject as invari- ably fatal in the long run. Of late, however, owing to improve- ments in the methods of dealing with tuberculous disease generally