XXX. DISEASES OF BONES. By H. H. glutton, M.B. Cantab., F.E.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on, Surgery at, St. Thomas’s Hospital; Examiner in Surgery at the University of Cambridge. OSTEITIS. The same changes that take place in inflammation of other structures occur also in inflammation of bone. Owing, however, to its density, tlie same exudation and multiplication of cells cannot take place without a coincident absorption of the osseous trabeculae; and from the intimate relations existing between the bone and its periosteum on the one hand, and the mediilla on the other, both these structuies are necessarily involved. Periostitis is, therefore, often stated to be the nature of the disease when really it is primarily a case of osteitis. Pathological anatomy.—The bone, periosteum, and medulla become, when inflamed, more vascular. Their vessels dilate, and exu- dation takes place into the connective tissue within and around the bone. The Haversian canals enlarge, capillary loops form, and the embryonic cells increase in number. The osseous lamellas are also eroded from absorption, forming Howship’s lacunas, which, communi- cating with the enlarged Haversian canals, convert the compact tissue into large irregular spaces similar to that of the cancellous tissue of bone. In the granulation tissue which now occupies these spaces are found a large number of multinuclear cells, called “osteoclasts,” which are thought to produce this absoi’ption of bone. This is the condition known as rarefying' osteitis. Meanwhile, coincidently with this rarefaction, new bone is being formed in the outlying parts beneath the periosteum and in the medulla. The small nucleated cells which take part in this forma- tion are called “ osteoblasts.” These two processes of formative and rarefying osteitis are at first constantly going on together. Sub- sequent changes must vaiy with the conditions which produce the disease. In favourable cii-cumstances, the inflammatory exuda- tion undergoes resolution, and the bone returns to its original condition. If the irritation, whatever it be, has been long continued, complete resolution does not take place, and the bone remains larger and harder than it was before. A still further development of tills latter process may ensue, and the osteitis then terminates in c c *