389 SOFT G HANG BE S. bal non-veiiereai iiiiui-uiuii, vy - r navt of the body on which they have not been noted. I Imve seen f . . /„ - 1 )„ /yy/y rlr.iiV.f fvnm 0071 tfl,mination due Slu6o U1 illUL/UlC*UJ.V./Xl y M»i^v,ri.%w w 1 J. Ti. V\ on the tongue, the tonsil, the pharyngeal wivll, etc it may be stated as being almost without exception, that all extra-genital chancres are syphilitic or infecting ones. Indurated chancres are, as a rule, single, but by no means always so for as many as ten or fifteen have been observed on the same patient, and two or three are not very uncommon. _ They are usually non-inoculable on the same patient, but this is, again, only paitially true. Soft ones, however, can readily be inoculated, and nothing is more frequent than to see examples of this having occurred j as, for instance, from prepuce to glans or scrotum, etc. We have already noted that indurated sores are slow to disappear; in women, how- ever, they would seem to have a shorter term of existence than in men’ at any rate when situated on the genitals. It is important to remember that they often completely disappear, leaving no trace behind; and hence, when examining a patient with a doubtful history of syphilis, no great reliance must be placed on the jiresence or absence of a scar on the genitals. If a well-marked cicatrix be found, it is more likely to be the remains of an ulcerating soft sore than an infecting hard one. Soft or non-infecting- chancres.—A large proportion of sores on the genitals contracted from venereal contagion do not lead to syphilis, and (although this has been keenly debated) in all proba- bility they have nothing whatever to do with syphilis. Considering the many varieties of micro-organisms which frequent the male and female external genitals, it is no wonder that suppurative lesions should be produced by sexual intercourse, apart from syphilis and gonorrhoea. The soft chancre {chancroid of the French writers) has the following characters:—(1) It has a very short period of incuba- tion, a pustule forming within two to five days of contagion, and very rapidly developing into an open sore or ulcer; (2) it is nearly always multiple, thus there may be a ring of ten to thirty small ulcers round the coronal furrow or the preputial border; (3) it is invariably an open sore discharging pus, sometimes a very considerable amount; (4) it may cause no gland enlargement, or, on the other hand, one or more of the inguinal glands may inflame or suppurate as a result of it. The “ bullety bubo ” (5) is never seen apart from syphilis; if treated by strict cleanliness and an antiseptic powder, or if cauterised, it nearly always heals quickly ; under other conditions it may persist almost indefinitely. Around a soft chancre there may be a good deal of inflammatory thickening, but no true induration; but it must be noted that a soft sore may appear soon after inoculation, and after two or three weeks