1055 CHBOmO OSTEO-ARTIIRITIS. do creak on movement under the hand. Latei’, wlien tlie low in- flammatory action is beginning, and the border of the articular cartilage is becoming nodular while the synovial tissue is irritated, the patient complains of dull aching pain, aggravated by motion. Greater creaking or actual crackling will now be noticed,and the lumpy enlargement at the borders of the articulation can bo made out with the hand. Pi’obably, too, the joint will contain a certain amount of fluid, and there may be a certain eleva- tion of temperature without redness. This condition, of course, interferes with the movement of the joint, not only because of the pain, but also owing to the altera- tion of the shape of its surfaces, due to the bony growths. Any attempt to carry the bones tli rough their usual move- ments leads, of course, to stretching of the ligaments, with great increase of suffering. With the advance of the dis- ease all these .symptoms become aggravated, especially the Fig. 432,-Femur and Patella from a case of chronic Osteo-arthritis showing the effects of friction. ’ last. But, ulti- mately, if the joint surfaces become locked in one another, movement being arrested, the pain gene- rally ceases, except that at times, espe- cially at night, the bones may ache. So far as we know, all the joints of the body may be affected, either sino'lv or together, by osteo-artliritis. But there are some which appear to be peculiarly liable to the disease. Among the larger articula- tions the following is about the order of frequency: knee, hip shoulder elbow, ankle, sterno-clavicular, and temporo-maxillary the sinal er joints showing it only a little less frequently. Even the smaller articulations of the vertebrie have no immunity from tJie disease, but may be e.xtensively involved. Both sexes appear to be equally affected by osteo-arthritis • per- kier f-quently attacked in malek'the The ti-eal.licit of this affection is, on the whole, unsatisfactory SmosT Inn primarily upon degenerative processes, it is almost too much to hope that we can effect much by remedial