13 INVASION BY BAOTEllTA. general rule, that the less the injury to the tissues, and the more the ell'usion of blood and serum is checked, oi', if such etlusion does occur, the more carefully it is all removed, the less risk of bacterial invasion, and if bacteria do find their way into the wound, the more readily and completely are they dealt with by the tissues. Although a bruised wound heals readily enough when bacteria are carefully kept out, suppuration almost invariably occurs in a similar wound when bacteria gain access to the injured tissues ; m the one case there is a clean slough or a gradual absorption of the dead material; in the other there comes away a putrid mass which may leave a suppurating surface. The ultimate result, as regards the lesion itself, may be the same, but the constitutional disturbance—the local pain and inflammation—is vastly greater in the one case than in the other. The surgeon who has had experience of wounds made with dirty infected knives or weapons, recognises only too well the dangerous results following the most insignificant lesions. A punc- tui’ed dissecting wound, the slight lesion made with a dirty fish- bone in the mouth or in the hands, may be almost as dangei-ous as one made with a poisoned arrow ; whilst even in those cases in which no general disturbance follows, local suppuration almost inevitably ensues. The wound from a rusty nail, a fragment of broken glass bottle, or a dirty splinter of wood that has been lying on the ground, may suppurate owing to the presence of pyogenic micro- organisms that have remained alive on damp warm soil; or an attack of tetanus or malignant oedema, or even anthrax, may be sot up, the particles of rust or the open texture of the wood offering not only a nidus for the organisms but spaces in which serum may accumulate for the nutrition of the contained oi’ganisms. The bruising of the tissues which usually occurs when wounds are produced by the above agents, is also a most important factor in the production of disease; the cells which normally destroy bacteria are so far injured that they are unable to do their proper work. Dirty and blunt instruments, especially those that have been used in the treat- ment of septic cases, are just as deadly as rusty nails and dirty fish- bones. The coagulated blood from a septic case on a pair of bone forceps, or on a blunt knife, may be a focus of infection quite as dangerous as the carcase of a cow (dead from anthrax) left in an open field. Ordinary cleaning of such instruments is not sufficient to remove the coagulated blood, and even the somewhat prolonged action of such antiseptic agents as have a coagulating effect°on albumen, is not sufficient to render the whole of such foreign matter aseptic, the micro-organisms contained in it, protected by the coac^u- lated albumen, remaining alive and capable of doing their deadly work. In connection with all this it is now recognised that a sharp knife should be used in order to avoid unnecessary bruising of tissues, this quite apart from the question of rapidity of operadon and the comfort of the operator; that no soft tissues should be torn with forceps, which are necessarily blunt; that scissors should be used as little as possible, and that the chisel should be used for bone,