EFITJTELIOMA. 4.81 glands are infected is the most remarkable and dangcioiis feature of epithelioma j the large size the affected glands attain to in many cases is often astonishing, and their enlargement stands in no rela- tion to the size of the initial lesion, for an epithelioma 2 cm. square or less, will lead to the formation of a gland-tumour as big as a cocoa-nut. Such conditions are most frequently met with when the tongue, lip, and scrotum are the seats of this disease. The gland complication in epithelioma is always a serious element of danger. When the cervical glands are enlarged they interfere with the trachea and oesophagus; they also become firmly adherent to the sheath of big vessels, and as the glands break down the ulceration not infrequently opens up the jugular vein or carotid artery, and, in the inguinal region, the femoral vessels. A peculiarity of glands infil trated by epithelioma is the tendency they exhibit to break down in the centre and form spurious cysts. This should be remembered, for fluctuating glands associated with epithelioma does not necessarily signify suppuration. When the skin becomes implicated portions of the infected glands slough, and leave large horrible gaps, from which a foul foetid discharge proceeds, whilst the edges of the chasm produced by the sloughing continue to ex- tend and involve the neighbouring tissues. Dissemination.—It has already been mentioned that secondary deposits are exceptional in epithelioma; it cannot be ‘said that they are rare, but dissemination certainly happens far less frequently, and never so extensively as in cancer. It is also note- worthy that epithelioma is in some situations more liable to disseminate than in others. For example, secondary deposits ai’e rarely met with when this disease attacks the larynx, and the mucous membrane in relation with the mandible or maxilla, and the oesophagus. The explanation sometimes offered of this peculiarity is that epithelioma in these situations usually runs a rapid course, and often destroys life so quickly that the period is too short to allow of the fonnation of secondary nodules. This is inadmissible, as in epithelioma of the scrotum dissemination is almost as exceptional as when the larynx is attacked. Treatment.—^The principles on which surgeons rely for the treatment of epithelioma are :—(1) Early and free removal of the prmary disease whenever it is in an accessible situation; (2) when adjacent lymph glands are enlarged they should be dissected out coincidentally with the removal of the primary lesion; (3) when there is recurrence, and the condition of the part admits, and the general health of the patient is such as will permit an operation to be performed with safety, the tumour should be excised. The early excision of epithelioma is practised for two very important reasons ;— The earlier the diseased area is removed the greater the prospect of eradicating the disease before it affects the adjacent lymph glands. The extirpation of an epithelioma in its early stages is ofttimes a very trivial proceeding; when allowed to extend, its complete Q