fb.actub.es of the humerus. 813 successful; and the cup and ball form of the fragments opposes re-displacement. The shaft will thus be brought to an abducted epiphysis, and if they can be interlocked the arm may be carefully brought to the side; if not, the patient must remain in bed and abduction be maintained by weight extension. Ordinarily, a shoulder cap, with or without an axiliary pad and a sling, should be applied. Difficulty in reduction is due to interposition of soft parts, usually the edge of the periosteal collar round the shaft. In com- pound cases the obstacle must be removed by operation, and in simple cases the question of operation must be carefully considered. Great displacement of an important epiphysis with years of growtli before it or signs of any complication, would render operation desirable; even after several weeks, resection of a dis- placed shaft and reduction have been per- formed with good results. If necessary, the epipliysis may be fixed to the shaft for a time by a steel pin (Helferich). (5) The SHi’g'ical neck, between the tuberosities and their muscles—the resultant of whose action is believed to be abduction—and the bicipital groove, to which the great adductors and internal I’otators, are attached, is the most frequent seat of fractures of the upper end of the humerus (Fig. 248). It occurs at all ages, both from direct and indirect violence. Swelling is often great. The displace- ments and signs are the same as in sepa- ration of the epiphysis, except that cre- pitus is bony, and the fragments sharp, irregular, and likely to excite more pain when they are moved. ^ Occasionally the lower fragment is impacted into the upper : this is the more likely the higher the fracture and the more can- cellous the upper fragment. Generally the outer side of the shaft penetrates the upper fragment, the usual deformity is present in slight degree, and some crepitus may be obtained on firmly graspino- the head and rotating the shaft. ^ Compound and complicated fractures at the surgical neck are very unusual. The commonest complication is dislocation of the head. These cases look like simple dislocations : the shoulder is flattened, the arm shortened, the elbow stands out from the side, and there may be fulness beneath the pectoral; the fingers sink in beneath the acromion, and encounter the rounded head in the axilla • but they show also that it does not move with the shaft, and that crepitus occurs between them. Jreatment.—During the period of early swelling in this and other injuries to the shoulder the patient should be kept in bed Fig. 249.—Treatment of Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus by the shoulder cap, axillary pad, and sling for the hand.