887 NECROSIS. if it has become detached. In the case of exfoliation, a director may often be inserted beneath the edge of the sequestrum, wliich is tlien tilted up if it is loose, and felt or seen to move. Treatment.—Incisions may from time to time be necessary for the evacuation of pus at convenient spots to procure efficient drainage during the process of suppuration attendant upon the loosening and removal of dead bone. Absolute rest should be obtained by a splint or by a pillow and cradle. The antiseptic method should be employed on the well-known principles, if for no other reason than this, to avoid the frequent change of dressings which would otherwise be necessary. A rise of temperature should always lead to a careful examination for any fresh collection of pus. A very sudden rise of temperature and a sharp fall, with or without a rigor, should make the surgeon think of the possibility of pyaemia, especially if there be nothing in the appearance of the wound to account for this con- dition. Amputation may then be the wisest course for the patient. General treatment must be attended to, for the continued sup- puration is very exhausting, especially in the cases of acute infective periostitis. Good wholesome nourishment should be frequently given, wine or brandy being added according to the particular case in hand. (See Treatment of Acute Necrosis, page 878.) When the time comes for the removal of sequestra, to which allusion has already been made, an anaesthetic must be given, and the dead bone exposed by enlarging the sinus or laying one sinus into another. If it is still overlapped by the invaginating bone, and cannot be easily withdrawn, the opening may be further enlarged. Sometimes the division of the sequestrum into two parts facilitates its extraction, and may avoid the further opening up of the sinuses. After it has been removed, the surgeon’s finger should explore the cavity which is lined with soft granulations, feeling like velvet, so that no fragment of dead bone may escape detection. The wound having been syringed to remove blood clot and debris, it is packed with aseptic gauze. A layer of wood wool tissue and a bandage firmly applied would conveniently complete the dressing, which need not be changed, if the temperature remain normal, for some days. An Esmarch’s bandage, which renders the operation almost blood less, is in many cases of great assistance. But the oozing after it has been removed somewhat counterbalances this advantage. Still, in difficult cases, where a prolonged search is anticipated, it would be ^\^s^ to employ this method. 2. Quiet necrosis, or necrosis without suppuration.— This is a very rare condition, but one that is now well known by the records of a few important cases.* A portion of bone having died, the amount of inflammation produced for its separation from the living bone around is so limited, that scarcely any pus is formed, and none * Paget: Clin. Soc. Trans,, vol. iii. ; Morrant Baker: Mod.-Chir. Trans., vol. lx. Cliarlewood Turner: Path. Soc. Trans., vol. x.xxv.; Watson Cheyue: Path. Soc Trans., vol. xli. ; Shattook: Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xli.