165 CAUSES. rjauses The general predisposing causes of erysipelas may he in the environments, as overcrowding, bad drainage; or m the habits of the patient, especially intemperance. Starvjitron, debilitat- ing diseases, diabetes, Bright’s disease, gout, and malignant disease alf predispose to erysipelas, as do also previous attacks, inrants an the aged are probably predisposed. , , , The local predisposing causes are dependent upon the position ot the injury in places which facilitate sepsis, such as the scalp, scrotum, female organs of generation, the mouth and anus, ihe different varieties of erysipelas are also more liable to complicate wounds which are lacerated and contused, simply because they are more likely to be infected, and are harder to disinfect. The exact relationship of the streptococcus of erysipelas to cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas is still the subject of controversy. There is no doubt whatever but that cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is caused by a streptococcus. Also that this cannot in most cases be dis- tinguished by its morphology, growth, and effects from the strepto- cocci of simple cutaneous erysipelas. Fehleisen denied that the streptococcus erysipelatis could cause suppuration; but Fraenkel, K-irchner, and others have shown that this is not correct. Those who have hitherto denied that the streptococcus of erysipelas can cause suppuration assert that the streptococcus seen in cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas and cellulitis is the Streptococcus pyogenes. Others, again, think that cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas may be caused by a mixed infection with Streptococcus erysipelatis and Strepto- coccus pyogenes. However, these two organisms are so nearly alike in morphology, growth, and action that they are indistinguishable (Cornil and Babes, Sternberg). It has been stated that they may be separated by slight differences in their chemical products. It was at one time a question whether erysipelas was contagious or whether it was infectious. Now that it is known to be due to infection with streptococci, such a discussion is unnecessary. The streptococcus of erysipelas resides in pus, blood, clothing, upon the surface of the body, in the mouth, nose, or vagina (Sternberg), in the excreta, and upon instruments, towels, and sponges. Von Eiselsberg found it in the air of Billi’oth’s wards, Haegler in the air of Socin’s wards, and Emmerich found it in the air of a dissecting-room. II. CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. Cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas has a close clinical relationship to the cutaneous variety. There are, however, some differences, especially in the local symptoms, due to the infection of the subcutaneous cellular tissues. It occurs as a complication of operations and injuries. I have seen fatal examples after the most trivial proceed- ings—such as the I’emoval of sebaceous cysts, fatty tumours, ade- nomata of the breast, after radical cure of hernia, radical cure of varicocele, and amputations of the breast.