1072 DISEASES OF JOINTS. they may remain for uu indefinite time, or become detached and float loose in the joint. Similar pendulous tags may be formed in the synovial fringes by any form of chronic inflammation, and are doubtle.ss in some cases tuberculous. The bony masses, on the other hand, are sometimes itroduced from nodules at the borders of the bones due to rheumatoid arthritis (j)age 1053), which have broken off and been set free. Again, they may be derived from the actual normal surfaces of the joint by injury, a fragment being chipped off, show- ing on one surface the line of fracture and on the other the normal encrusting cartilage. Finally, they may be produced from tlie sur- faces of the articulation by a process of what has been described as “ quiet necrosis,” that is, the separation of a fragment of sclerosed bone from that underlying it by a rarefactive process like that of rarefactive osteitis, but unaccompanied by any suppuration. (See page 887.) The fibrinous bodies are probably formed from the fibrin of blood extravasated into the joint, as the result of injury, and rolled into pellets by the movement of its surfaces. The treatment of any or all of these loose bodies is practically the same in most cases. Sometimes they will form adhesions for themselves in some part of the synovial pouches out of the way of any particular pressure, and if so give rise to little or no inconvenience. This adhesion may be encouraged by bandaging the joint firmly when the loose body is giving no trouble, and is, therefore, presumably out of the way. If such a bandage, preferably an elastic one, be worn for a long period, the final fixation of the body may be accomplished and a more or less permanent cure result. But these methods are very uncertain, and the patient has, as a rule, no time sufficient to give them a fair trial. Fortunately, in these days of aseptic surgery the risks of removing these bodies once and for all from the joint are very small, and this is the course which is approved by most modern surgeons. The foreign body is simply fixed in one of the lateral synovial pouches by the finger and thumb of the operator, and a bold stroke is made through all the structures with a knife until it is reached. As a rule, it will then slip out easily through the wound, aided, perhaps, by a little extra pressure with the finger and thumb. Sometimes several loose bodies may be thus squeezed out of the same opening. It should be a rule, however, with all operators never to make an incision into a joint to remove a loose body unless the latter can be felt and held in sitii. If this is not adhered to, it may be impossible after the opening is made to find the foreign body at all. Again, there are cases in which, though the hard mass may appear to move freely about, it may be really pedunculated, and may not slip out readily On the incision being made. In this extremity it must be carefully seized in forceps, and its pedicle must be divided carefully with scissors. It is better in all cases to avoid putting the fingers into the joint, or indeed anything that can be avoided, lest the cavity be infected