DISEASES OP BONES. 894 408 ) In osteosclerosis, ossification of the inflammatory products may result in a widespread necrosis, as has been explained before. The peculiarity of syphilitic necrosis by which it may be distinguished from other forms of necrosis, is the slowness with which it is separated from the living bone,_ remaining for many years attached to tlie sur- rounding parts. It is probable that this is due to the want of vas- cularity in the adjoining bone, in which the Haversian canals may be almost completely filled up with new material which has ossified More frequently a gumma in bone results in what is called syphilitic caries: that is to say, the cavity is rough and irregular, and more nearly resembles ulceration of the soft parts. Particles of dead bone there may be, which come away in the discharge, but there is no appre- ciable “ sequestrum.” The spaces between these irregular walls and floor are filled with granulation, which shows no tendency to organise into healthy bone, probably from the same reason given above in speaking of syphilitic necrosis—namely, that the surrounding bone is sclerosed and, therefore, non-vascular. Caries and necrosis are also not uncommonly present together, difiering as they do only in the extent to wliicli the circulation has been cut off from the part affected. The skull and sternum, especially tfie former, are tJie bones most frequently affected with this intractable form of syphilis (Figs. 337, 338). Our museums are full of specimens showing its inveterate nature. They have been collected for tlie most part by our prede- cessors, before the treatment of syphilis was so well understood as at present. This present comparative immunity is apparently in part due to the lesser virulence of the disease j for tlie virulent forms of primary syphilis in cases where no treatment has been adopted are much less frequent than in days gone by. (See also Art. XXXIII. page 1031.) Xi'cntiiient.—Enlargement of bone from syphilis is always Sequestrum :• caries ne- cictlca. Osteosclerosis.