614 ANEURYSM. diaainishes in force, but ceases suddenly, if at all, from a clot filling the artery. In other cases—and these fonn a large proportion of those that are successful—it is noticed that the aneurysm within a short time mddenly becomes solid and pulseless, and subsequently undergoes the shrinking and hardening indicative of cure. Here a single act of coagulation has filled both aneui-ysm and artery with clot, which subsequently organises. These different effects upon the aneurysm are due in part to the varying degrees in which the pressure employed controls or arrests the circulation in the aneurysm, and partly also to the varying “ tendency of the blood to coagulate,” including in this term possibly varying conditions of the sac and its lining, and of the ferment-containing corpuscles. Compression of the main artery may merely reduce the pressure of the blood in the artery beyond, the blood still flowing into and out of the aneurysm, but with little force, and in a continuous non-pulsatile stream, having either flowed on through the partly-closed artery or through collateral vessels. On the other hand, it may arrest the arterial circulation so effectively that the blood in the aneurysm is stagnant. "When the varying degrees of pressure applied, and the varying number and size of anastomosing channels through which the blood can And its way are borne in mind, it becomes at once clear that the effect upon the circulation of compression of a main artery must vary. But an aneurysm that has become partially or wholly solid does Qot always become cured. It has often happened that shortly after such a change has been observed, the sac has been found of its former consistence, and pulsating as forcibly as ever. This is because the clot has been disintegrated by the force of the blood and carried away, partly in the form of minute embolisms. The clotting of the blood is only the preliminary step to cure, which depends solely upon the organisation of the thrombus. Two other effects of arterial compression must be noticed. If it is long-continued or often repeated, the collateral vessels enlarge and permanently take an important share in the blood supply of the part. As a result of this, the blood pressure in the aneurysmal artery is permanently lessened, and the effect of occlusion of the main artery is then less marked upon the whole part, including the aneurysm. It follows from this—and it is most important to bear it well in mind— that the beneficial effect of compression is greatest when first employed, and steadily diminishes with long continuance or frequent repetition, and that its long use lessens the prospect of cure from subsequent ligature of the artery. If long continued and too violent, periarteritis, arteritis, or phlebitis may be excited, and in one case at least a communication has been known to form between the artery and vein—aneurysmal varix—at the point of pressure. The mode of practising compression varies. It may be con- tinuous or interrupted, or digital compression may alternate with the use of a compressor, or the amount of compression may be diminished to allow the patient to sleep. Continuous compression