OAUklli'S OF FliAOTUinSS. 7:5:) (2) Eud-to-end compression of a bone, causing increase of its natural curve and fracture at the point of greatest tension and weakness. Thus, in falls on the hand the radius is often com- pressed between the capitellum and the carpus; in falls on the foot, the tibia; in false steps, the femur—the neck being fractured. (3) Compression of a bone, flexion being prevented, results in the crushing of cancellous bones, and in the splitting up of large epiphyses by the driving into them of smaller and denser portions. Tims arise many fractures of the femoral neck and trochanter. (4) Force transmitted across a joint through tense ligaments may tear oft' the bone into which the ligaments are inserted. The anterior radio-carpal ligament is credited by some with this action in producing CoUes’ fracture. The malleoli, epicondyles, styloid processes, and the like are sometimes thus torn off. (5) Torsion fractures or, at least, fractures in the production of which torsion takes a share, do not seem to be rare. In falls, after a Hmb has reached the ground and has become fixed against it, the body frequently swings round towards one or other side. Occasionally, whilst the foot is immovably fixed, the body, to avoid a sudden danger, is turned violently round; or machinery may so twist a limb upon the body, or a surgeon may execute such a movement in endeavouring to reduce a dislocation. The soft parts in complete fractures from indirect violence often escape without obvious damage ; but the muscles usually, the skin not uncommonly, the vessels and nerves rarely, are lacerated by the ends of the fragments. Such damage as is done to these parts is inflicted from mthin and by the fragments—a pointed piece of bone being often found sticking through a hole in the skin. The contrast in this respect between fractures from direct and indirect violence is important, on account of the slighter injury to and less danger of sloughing of the soft parts. Muscxdar action, voluntary or involuntary—e.g. epileptic—is said to be responsible for less than 1 per cent, of all fractures, but, as before said, it probably shares with external violence the credit of producing many more. Usually muscular action tears oflf a process or an epiphysis—as the coronoid process or the tuberosity of the calcaneum. A considerable proportion of fractures of the patella is due to sudden contraction of the quadriceps to prevent a backward fall; but in most of these cases the bone is probably bent and cracked across the condyles of the femur, i.e. it is a mixed traction and flexion fracture. The ribs have been broken in fits of coughing, also the sternum in a cliild of two years; several times the sternum has been torn in two by the action of the abdominal muscles in labour. The cervical spine (4th or 5th vertebra) has been broken five or six times by sharp extension, practised to avoid striking the bottom in diving into shallow water. Tlie clavicle has not uncommonly been broken in powerful actions of the most varied kinds. But the most remarkable fractures from muscular action are those of the long bones. Gurlt collected 95 of these, and found