842 INJURIES OF BONES. less than in the average unimpacted case; eversion; full inversion impossible; retention of more or less power over the limb, even ability to walk, especially in intracapsular cases; but, often, the limb is perfectly heli)less; the arc of rotation is good in both cases—far better in the impacted fracture of the base of the neck than in the unimpacted; crepitus is slight or absent. To distinguish between the impacted fractures of the base and of the narrow part of the neck the best points are the greater shortening, the greater depres- sion, and the widening of the trochanter in the former. In im- pacted fractures of this region manipulations should be conducted with special care; for in the intracapsular fracture impaction offers the best chance of bony union. Diagnosis.—A bruise of the hip may render the limb quite help- less, and cause it to be everted; it may, naturally, be a little shorter than its fellow ; swelling may prevent exammation of the trochanter; inver- sion may be resisted. Under these circumstances the patient should be kept in bed with the legs between sandbags; the symptoms will soon pass off if the injury has been a bruise only. A severe bruise of a joint, which is the seat of advanced rheumatoid changes, leading to shorten- ing and grating, offers many difficulties. In fractxore of the acetabulum, with entry of the femoral head into the pelvis, the shortening is slight, depres- sion of a normal trochanter very great, and a swelling is felt per rectum; probably an extensive fracture of the hip-bone can be detected. Dislocor tion of the femur on to the pubes is spoken of as resembling fractures with eversion; the everted dorsal is somewhat more like; the ordinary dorsal dislocation is like frac- tures with inversion, inasmuch as inversion is present in it also. But in all other points—the characteristic position of each disloca- tion, the presence of the head where this position indicates, the limited mobility, the absence of crepitus, the mode and phenomena of reduction—the fractures are absolutely different from the dis- locations. . . Prognosis.—Danger to life in tliese injuries is considerable; aspe- cially in those due to sliglit violence in feeble old people, in whom, when confined to bed, liypostatic pneumonia, bed sores, delinum soon come on, and death quickly ensues. The more severe injuries kfil by shock. As to function, fractures at the base of the neck practically always unite by bone : large masses of callus are found binding t lo neck and troclianteric fragments together as in a, collar, sections Fig. 282.—Bony Union after an intra- capsular Fracture, the line of which is clear. Tlio position of the trochanter, with its outer surface looking backwanls, shows tliat eversion iias been extreme; shortening was probably not more than half an inch. In this case the posterior part of the neck may liave been impacted in the head. (Cli.aring Cro.ss Museum.)