THE ABSCESSES. 179 abscesses. These, of course, are formed in loco, and the mystery is S now that pyemia is known to be due to bacteria, which are so small as to circulate everywhere almost without hindrance,^ and th it can be produced experimentally by the intravenous injection of A^thS slptSombi'and emboli are not essential in pymmia, there is evidence to prove that they are is caused with much greater ease in animals if, pyogenic cocci, particles of some inert material are injected nto the veins at the same time. Pawlowsky used sterilised cinnalmr and Staphylococcus aureus, and produced typical pyaemia; Ribbert injected particles of the potato upon which S. aureus had been grown , Bonomd used elder pith, and so forth. It seems probable that the clot or foreign body acts as a nidus in which the bacteria are able to localise themselves, and multi- ply -without being washed away by the blood stream. Healthy animals can get rid, without much apparent harm, of con- siderable doses of pyogenic cocci if they be gradually introduced into the circula- tion in suspension in distilled water, salt solution, or even in filtered or dialysed pus. Besides blood clots, probably many other factors determine the arrest of cir- culating bacteria in particular places. 4. The localising of the bacteria. —Huber found that when he inflamed a Fig. 31. — streptococci in Pua fromaPytemic Knee. (Prom a micro-photograpli by Mr. rabbit’s ear with blistering fluid, and then inoculated the animal with anthrax, the bacilli accumulated in the inflamed area. The effects of traumatism in causing the localisation of circulating bacteria are well known. Rosenbach, Rocher and others have caused osteomyelitis by injuring the bone either before or after the intravenous injection of Staphylococcus aureus. Here the tearing of the vessels, the blood clots, and the lacerated tissues are all conducive to the entanglement and arrest of bacteria. To some extent similar influences are at work in causing the localisation of the bacteria that cause pysemic abscesses. In pyaemia the micrococci sometimes localise themselves upon the valves of the heart and cause ulcerative endocarditis. This is indicated by the usual cardiac murmurs and clinical signs of valvular disease. Wyssokowitsch caused ulcerative endocarditis by first injuring the valves of the heart, and afterwards injecting pyogenic cocci into the veins. 5. The character and situation of the pyieinic abscess. —PyjBmic abscesses are almost always small and multiple, but now and then solitary abscesses of some size are met with. In a case of this kind I found, in addition to the abscess, numbers of bacterial emboli in the liver and kidneys. The pus in the larger abscesses is