SIGNS OF ANEURYSM. 607 tan. the cyst p„, j ^ a.W, :TbeSn ."rto communicate with the atteties, and, therefore, some fonns „„ig.uion bein» less markedly expansile, and in the ?r“lha'“tvlmn tlm main artery Supplying the part is compressed and :tdnc*f SetyTiS:, S^CSeol^fq rartery bv pre^ssure A slight thrill may be perceived. In some cases other signs at once establish a diagnosis; for instance, tlie situated quite away from any large artery, as on the side of the knee, or it mav be distinctly movable over the neighbourmg artery, as a bronchocele, or pulsation may be noticed m part of the tumour only the rest of it being very firm, or even hard in consistence, or specia signs, as of expansion of bone, may be present. ^ c Innrl A pulsation and thrill in the veins of the part, and a loud raspincr bruit conducted along the vessels, would indicate com- munication of the aneiirysm with a vein. {See Arterio-venous ^^^Eulargement of the tumour, without loss of its distinct outline and with increase in the intensity of pulsation, are the signs by which growth of the aneurysm, as distinguished from rupture of the sac, is recognised. (6) Signs and diagnosis of an anenrysni undergoing cure.—When an aneurysm is undergoing cure by becoming gradually filled with clot, the tumour becomes smaller and harder, with less marked pulsation ; its compressibility, when the circulation is arrested, is diminished, and the bruit and thrill are modified or lost. When the aneurysm is quite full of clot, but the artery still remains patent, the pulsation is heaving and has lost all its expansile charac- ter. The tumour is then quite incompressible ; and if a bruit is heard over it, it is increased in intensity by gentle pressure. At the same time the local pain and any pressure-signs that may have been present diminish or disappear. The fixity of such a tumour to the artery, and, when known, its previous condition and the general clinical history, serve to distinguish it from a gland or other solid tumour over an artery. When the case passes into one of cure, bv the artery becoming obliterated, pulsation disappears, and the tumour shrinks still more, while afterwards the collateral arteries may be felt to be enlarged. W^hen cure takes place more suddenly