311 anthrax. observed, but tW ZpTou^^Sf’Stclis attack being four months (Bonm„e ) F frequent, leave intractable ulcers and formation of Put cbronic disaurg. I Wg- f'- 'f tlie natient recover, convalescence is veiy prolmige . • n i and if the patient re disease is to be recognised by Aeu'-a'-X'raS Tbe resemWance is%be more striking a correct diagnosis. Virchow has pointed out the occasional simu tion of a hard chancre by a nodule upon the penis. Prognosis-Acute glanders may almost be said to be a fatal disease yet Bollinger reports one recovery in thirty cases and same obLver has collected thirty-four cases of chronic glandeis with “ ’'TrSerAn l®Se of a bite or undoubted local inoculation seen Sr^cirion and energetic disinfection or cautensation are indicated^ Later, the administration of quinine and abundance of crood nourishment should be persevered in. Abscesses shou d e treated on ordinary lines, and the nasal symptoms by the spraying of carbolic acid solutL (1 in 40) or perch We of mercury 1 in 1.000) The internal administration of strychnine • recommended (Gamgee); and Bollinger suggests the use of carbolic acid. Lastly, cases of cure by the free inunction of mercuiyc^^^^ menced early have been reported from Russia (Gold Gralewsky, Kondorsky). VII. MALIGNANT PUSTULE. ANTHRAX. iEtiolOffy.—This is a gangrenous inflammation of the skin, due to the inoculation of a specific organism {Bacillus anthracis). ihe disease is one primarily met with in animals and from them is readily transmissible to man. i d The disease in animals is widely distributed in both the Old and New Worlds. In England outbreaks are comparatively slight and uncommon, and a very large number of the cases observed in man are the result of infection from imported hides. It occurs in horned cattle, sheep, swine, horses, and wild animals, such as reindeer an buffaloes, and is readily produced by inoculation in rabbits an guineapigs. The carnivora are much less susceptible, though cats are more so than dogs. , , • i p e. The anthrax bacillus develops without the body in the form or bundles of long threads bearing numerous spores. The latter are