143 GANGRENE FROM EMBOLISM, course, followed by thrombosis, and which may lead to blocking of the artery over a very considerable area. . , „ ^ ^ „ Where the obstruction is arterial alone in the first instance—tor example, after ligature of an artery—the first thing that is noticed is that the limb below becomes white from the absence of blood. By-and-by it assumes a dark livid colour, and then the various changes already described as characteristic of moist gangrene follow. If the cause be an embolism of the artery, we have, in addition to the sudden whiteness of the limb, violent pain at the point where the embolus has been arrested, and this is a very valuable sign as showing us where the block has occurred. On the other hand, if there has been venous as well as arterial obstruction at the com- mencement, the part below becomes cedematous and dark. The treatment of this form of indirect gangrene depends, in the first instance, on whether the block is purely arterial or prely venous, or both. If it be purely arterial, one must wait foi twenty-four or forty-eight hours, in order to see whether and how much collateral circulation may be established, because, as a rule, the greater part, and even the whole of the parts below may recover. Once one is sure how much is going to die, and this will be evident in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, one should then amputate, because there is no necessity for waiting for a line of demarcation. As to where to amputate, that must depend on the anatomy of the arteries, because it is not necessary in all cases to amputate as high up as the seat of obstruction. For example, after ligature of the superficial femoral artery we know that the profunda will supply the tissues quite satisfactorily down to well below the knee, and in such a case it is not necessary to amputate higher than through the condyles of the femur. It is generally laid down that in a case where the gangrene is dependent on venous blocking, or on blocking of both artery and vein, one cannot expect any recovery, but should amputate at once. (c) Gangi-ene due to imperfect innervation.—Where a limb is paralysed, one constantly sees that the nutrition is deficient —for example, in infantile paralysis—and such Limbs are especially liable to the formation of bed-sores and gangrene from pressure. It is often assumed that this tendency is due to the fact that the patient, not feeling properly with the limb, rests longer on the part than he would if it were not paralysed; but this is not altogether the case, for in hemiplegia, where the patient is lying absolutely still, he is extremely liable to suffer from bed-sores, which are worse on the side that is paralysed than on the other. Again, if extension be applied to a paralysed limb and to a sound limb, one is much more liable to get sloughs imder the extension plaster on the paralj'sed side than on the other. The gangrene that occurs in these cases of paralysed limbs generally comes on very quickly, is moist, and is often spoken of as an acute bed-sore ; hence it is very important to remember that pressure is more liable to cause gangrene in parts which are paralysed, and that in such circumstances pressure