525 effects of loss of blood. muscular substance of the heart, become acutely anminic, and their special functions impaired and eventually destroyed. This result is also partly brought about by the want of oxygen in the tissues. A certain amount of watery fluid is absorbed from tlie tissues into the blood-vessels, as an attempt to keep the vessels full enough to carry on the circulation. The symptoms that the patient exhibits in these circumstances are as follows :—The pulse becomes increasingly rapid, smaller, and weaker, until it cannot be felt in the smaller arteries, such as the radial, and is only a feeble flicker in the common femoral and common carotid. The mucous membranes are blanched, and the skin becomes white, cold, and bathed in sweat. The patient experiences a sense of nausea and faintness, palpitation and dyspnoea, noises in the ears and deafness, dimness of vision, increasing to a sense of darkness with occasional flashes of light, and then he becomes unconscious. The breathing is hurried, gasping, with a distressing sense of “want of breath,” until, when syncope comes on, the respiratory movements are very shallow and only diaphrag- matic. Thei-e is great muscular weakness, the voice is very feeble, the limbs are flaccid; and in the late stages great restlessness, with throwing about of the arms and legs, becomes a prominent and alarm- ing symptom. Convulsions occasionally occur. After death the body is shrunken, with a peculiarly white and wax-like appearance, and all the organs are pale and bloodless. When the haemorrhage is recurrent instead of continuous, a much lai'ger total loss occurs before life is extinguished. Serum is absorbed from all the soft tissues of the body, which become thereby very shrunken. The fluid in the arterioles is so dilute that it filters through them, and a certain amount of oedema of the eyelids and extremities occurs; and the “ blood ” that escapes in the final haemorrhage looks thin and watery: more like coloured serum than blood. In such cases the patient faints with each return of the haemorrhage, and the pulse becomes very feeble and rapid, with a soft artery which feels empty between the successive pulse waves. The tempei’atiu’e falls two degrees or more below the normal, and the patient is so weak that he is liable to faint or die if raised in bed, or if his arms are allowed suddenly to drop over the bed-side. There is great thirst, but absorption of fluid from the stomach is slow, owing to the very watery condition of the blood. The early period of recovery from a severe haemorrhage is often marked by a condition called haemorrhagic fever. The temperature is raised, the pulse is frequent and soft, with a large wave, but an empty artery between the cardiac systoles. The patient is very weak and thirsty, the urine is scanty, the bowels are confined, and complaint is made of a sense of throbbing in the temples. For some time after a severe loss of blood there is marked amemia, which may be permanent, and render the patient an easy prey to infective diseases; or the anosmia may be slowly recovered from; after middle life the recovery is rarely complete.