1043 SEPTIC SYNOVITIS. unfavourable, both as regards the life of the patient and the functions of the part if he survive. When septic matter is present in the blood in sufficient amount to cause suppuration in the joints, it is only too likely to be abundant enough to overwhelm the vital powers completely. And yet every surgeon of experience has seen cases in which, after free opening and evacuation of such purulent collections in joints, the patient has survived, and, moreover, some- times with the movement of the joint but little impaired. The sinbmciitc form of septic syuiovitis differs from that just described only in the degree of inflammation induced in the joint. Either the poison is not so virulent, or it is not in such large amount, or the vitality of the patient is greater. The symptoms are also the same, though less marked, and the constitutional disturbance is less severe. Here the temperature is not so high, and does not oscillate so much, and rigors are few or entirely absent. The pain, however, in these subacute cases is often more severe than in the acute, and the tendency to affect several joints one after the other is greater. The possibility of the smaller and deeper synovial tracts being attacked must never be lost sight of in this form. Such affections may often be observed, for instance, in deep tendon-sheaths and the smaller joints of the ribs, or wrist and ankle, or, again, in synovial bursse. The treatment in this case need not be so radical in the first instance. Here we may trust to hot fomentations, combined with belladonna paint for a time, with complete immobilisation of the limb. But if these means fail there is no choice, the joint must be opened, washed out, and in some cases^rained. In such cases the prognosis is favourable, and the functions of the part are often completely restored if treated early enough. In the chronic form of septic synoiatis we have a very troublesome aflection, if not actually very dangerous to life. Here there may be only a very moderate amount of effusion into the joint, but the inflammation lingers so long, that grave secondary structural changes are induced, which frequently destroy all the functions of the part in the end. The synovial membrane becomes thickened and fibrous, and the cartilages rougheiied, while the hgaments are softened at flrst, and then shrink and contract, so that great deformity is frequently the result if the inflammatory process be recovered from. The treatment in such cases is the same as for the subacute form in the main, but we must not forget that the longer such a process lasts the graver will be the structural lesions. We must not therefore hesitate, where other means fail, to open and wash out these joints, and carry out free drainage. And at the same time we must be particularly careful to support the joint in the best position when its ligaments are softening, so as, on the one hand, to prevent its component bones from being dislocated one upon the other- and on the other, to secure that, if it should become stiff, it sliall anclWlose m the most favourable position for future use.