529 LIGATURE OE AN ARTERY. less chance of an admixture of air bubbles than when tlie fluid is poured into a funnel. . Whatever plan is employed, all the apparatus must be previously thoroughly cleansed with a suitable antiseptic, and then flushed with boiled water at 100" F. The injection may be followed by a sharp, but short, rise of temperature. , i , Injection of fluid into the vessels should only be employed when the loss of blood has been stopped, and it is particularly indicated in cases of hfemoiThage pure and simple, as from a ruptured varicose vein, a punctured wound of an artery, etc. Mr. Mayo Robson has shown, however, that it is a very valuable means of combating the profound shock which is liable to occur after certain prolonged abdominal operations. The ligature of an artery in its continuity.—When an artery is tied in its continuity, the circulation through it is suddenly arrested, and certain changes occur in the walls of the vessel itself. We will first notice the changes that occur in the artery, and then the effects of a sudden block in the arterial circulation of a part. (a) Clian§:es in tlic artery*—The effects of the ligature vary with the degree of tightness with which it is tied. The coats of the artery may be merely thrown into several longitudinal folds which occlude the lumen. If more force is used, limited lacerations of the inner and middle coats are produced. If the ligature is drawn tight the inner and middle coats are entirely severed, and the portion of the outer coat encircled by the thread is compressed and ameraic. Opposite the knot even the tough outer coat of the artery may be divided. These injuries of tightly tied arteries are well shown m Fig. 152, taken from Ballance and Edmunds’ valuable monograph on “Ligation in Continuity.” (I am greatly indebted to the authors of this work for much valuable matter which I have incorporated in this Article and in Article XXV., and also for the permission, most readily granted, to use several of their original illustrations.) The blood coagulates upon the divided arterial coats, and the thrombus gradually extends on each side of the ligature, in some cases as far as the next branch of the artery. As a rule, the clot is slower in formation and smaller in size on the distal side of the ligature. As the result of the injury, the vessels in the sheath of the artery and in the adjacent arterial wall itself dilate, and serous fluid exudes into the sheath and artery, and leucocytes migrate from the dilated vessels, and pass in numbers into the arterial walls and into the clot. Stimulated by this excess of pabulum, the fixed cells of the part—sheath and artery, including the endothelium—proliferate, and plasma cells thus arising, infiltrate the arterial wall and the clot within it. The clot gi’adually dis- integrates and disappears, the strangled zone of outer coat is also absorbed, and the occluded artery is converted into a vascular fibro- cellular cord; the organisation of the clot and its vascularisation occuri'ing in the way that has been previously described (page 520). The ligature is either absorbed, encysted, or thrown oft'. {See page 521.)