298 SUBGIOAL DISEASES DUE TO MIOBOBIO INFECTION. anat^micus (Roser); and later observations have shown the condition in some cases to be an actual local inoculation of the tubercle bacil- lus. The absence, however, of instances of generalisation goes far to negative the view that all cases are of a specific nature, the majority, no doubt, being a result only of irritation from frequent contact with putrid animal matter, in some degree resembling the chronic form of eczema often seen on the backs of the hands of plasterers. The commonest seat of the disease is the thin skin of the backs of the hands, especially over the metacarpal phalanges; similar thickenings are often also met with at the margins of the nails ; and it may be noted that a corresponding thickening is often observed in old cicatrices of trivial wounds incurred in post-mortem work. The cutaneous papillae become enlarged in circumscribed limits, forming small areas, the surface of which is uneven, covered with a thick slightly opaque layer of epidermis, of a bluish-red colour. These areas are often tender on pressure, readily become ex- coriated when serum exudes and forms a scab, and they may some- times bleed from slight injury. They are usually on the back of the hand ; much more rarely the fore-arm may be affected. When the borders of the nails are affected, an isolated nodule usually exists, bluish-red in colour, tender on pressure. It evidently affects the skin only, and resembles somewhat a small epithelioma. The course of all such cases is very chronic and they tend to get well if the exciting work is discontinued. Treatment.—In some instances protection of the hand is aU that is needed to effect a cure. In more obstinate cases isolated nodules are best treated by the application of acid nitrate of merciuy or strong nitric acid. When the backs of the hands are extensively affected, scraping with the sharp spoon is the most effective form of treatrnent. III. INSECT STINGS, Varieties.—Many famibar insects attack man, but except in special circumstances the symptoms are of slight surgical im- portance; As a rule, the bites of flies cause merely sbght swelling and redness : even the tsetse fly of Africa, which renders the keeping of animals impossible, in man gives rise only to a wheal, which has been likened to a mosquito bite. In situations such as the eyelid, where loose subcutaneous tissue exists, oedema may be considerable, and this may be developed even in the limbs if the bites are multiple. It must be borne in mind, however, that flies especially may be the carriers of specific virus, and that when they have come direct from putrid animal matter, cellulitis or severe local inflammation may result from their bites. Flies are probably sometimes the bearers of the virus of anthrax, and the important rdle played by the mosquito in the development of filarim will be again referred to. Some varieties of spider are decidedly venomous: thus Aranea nedecius in Italy and Aranea mactans in South America give rise in persons bitten by them to severe headaclie, pain in tlie back, a