GANGRENE. 144 should be avoided as far as possible. The limb should be kept warm, and if slougliing does occur, it should be treated like a bed-sore. There is another form of gangrene in connection with neiwous derangement which it is of importance to consider very shortly, namely, what is termed “symmetrical gangrene,” or Raynaud’s disease. The term “ symmetrical gangrene ” at once brings out one great point, namely, that it occurs on both sides at the same time, thus differing from senile gangrene, which in the first instance is unilateral. A further difference from senile gangrene is that it more often affects the fingers than the toes, and again, that it is much more limited both in extent (generally not reaching beyond the phalanges) and in depth (seldom going deeper than the skin); and further, in Raynaud’s disease the blood-vessels are nonnal, whereas in senile gangrene, as has been already pointed out, they are thickened and hard. This affection is not a serious one, and chiefly occurs in women between eighteen and thirty years of age who are highly hysterical, and it is most probably associated with uterine or menstrual troubles. It is often developed by cold, and hence is most commonly met with during the winter months. It is supposed to be due to spasm of the arterioles reflexly from the uterus. The phenomena of Raynaud’s disease must be divided in the first place into those which precede the gangrene, and which may or may not be followed by gangrene ; -and ui the second place the gangrene itself. The phenomena which precede the gangrene are of two kinds; the one set is spoken of as local syncope, where the arteries become contracted and the fingers become white. As the result very often of a sudden mental shock, the patient s fingers become quite white and lose their sensibility, so that one might push a needle into them without causing pain or leading to bleeding. They are very cold, and generally one or two fingers are contracted, the condition being more or less completely symmetrical This attack lasts a few minutes to a few hours, and then may pass off, the attacks recurring generally two or three times in the course of the year. When the condition passes off, the fingers become red owing to dilatation of the blood-vessels. In some cases, during this stage, the fingers, instead of being dead white, are slightly livid. The second form is that which is spoken of as local asphyxia, in which the circulation of the blood is not completely arrested, but goes on extremely slowly, so that the blood in the part is practically entirely venous blood ; hence the fingers become livid and look as if they had been dipped in ink. This condition is accompanied by some swelling of the fingers, with shooting or burning pain. It may last for a day or two, and may or may not lead to gangrene. If it persist, we have the final stage of Raynaud’s disease, namely, the gangrene. The darkness of the fingers continues for some days, the pain and other symptoms increase, and there ma,y probably be the formation of small bullie on the fingers; indeed, one might think that the patient was going to lose aU his fingers.