TREATMENT. 215 forceps where care must be taken to clean the teeth thoroughly, and not to ieave any greasy material behind. It may be accepted as an axiom that a 1 to 20 watery solution of carbolic acid will destroy bacteria—at any rate, cocci—in a few seconds, provided it ca,n penetrate into all the recesses of the material. It can certainly do so in almost any material in a few hours, and many of the precau- tions which are taken in asepticising instruments, etc., are quite unnecessary, and are only too often employed with the most scrupulous care while equally important precautions are totally neglected. ^ o doubt the boiling of the instruments renders their disinfection perfectly certain,' and it is strongly to be recommended where instruments have been previously employed for a septic case, more especially for cases where bacillary diseases are present, such as tetanus, but in the majority of instances it is unnecessary, and it is certainly not so rapid in its action as undiluted carbolic acid, while it is only applicable to instruments that are made entirely of metal. Where some instrument has been overlooked in arranging for an operation, and is called for during its course, it is most rapidly disinfected by dipping it in undiluted carbolic acid for a few seconds. This is then washed away by a 1 to 20 carbolic acid lotion, when the instrument is ready for use. Simple immersion in boiling -water—which is as long as one could give if the instrument were required in the course of an operation—^would not disinfect it. It must actually remain in the boiling water for some minutes. On the whole, therefore, I prefer to adhere to the old plan of employing a 1 to 20 solution of carbolic acid for the disinfection of the instruments, but in cases where very septic wounds have been treated, I think it is well to boil them before laying them aside. Not only must the instruments be disinfected before the operation has begun, but care must be taken not to infect them again during the course of the operation. Thus reinfection might readily occur if the instruments were laid on a blanket or dry towel, or allowed to drop on the floor ; and it is therefore necessary so to arrange matters that such an accident cannot occur, and this is done by placing over the blankets and clothes and table, for a considerable area around the seat of the operation, towels which have been soaked for some time in a strong aseptic solution, either of carbolic acid or of corrosive sublimate. These towels are squeezed out of the solution, but should not be wrung dry; it is well to have them fairly saturated with the fluid. They are then placed on mackintoshes and arranged around the area of the operation, so that if instruments are laid down, or it the hands are rested at any time, they can only be placed on this aseptic basis. As a further precaution, I always have before me a small basin containing a 1 to 2,000 sublimate solution, in which I dip my hands from time to time as well as forceps and other instru- ments. It is just possible that one might accidentally soil one’s hands or the instruments during the course of the operation, and without such a solution at hand, mistakes might be made which would lead to septic infection of the wound.