STRUOTURE OF BAGTERTA. S in the membrane only and not in the protoplasmic substance. This colouring matter, present in such micro-organisms as the Bacillus pyo- cyaneus and in the bacillus of blue milk, may be diffused into the sur- rounding nutrient medium. The presence of this colouring matter in any of the above positions, when grown in sufficiently large quantities to become visible to the naked eye, gives rise to those characteristic beautifully-coloured masses seen in the growths of Bacillus violaceus, (Fig. 1) the magenta micrococcus (both found in water), the Bacillus prodigiosus, and other similar organisms. The limiting or external membrane may be merely altered myco-protein, but in certain bacteria, the Bacillus anthracis for example, it consists of a substance resembling casein, combined with a form of mucin found especially in the embryonic tissues of animals. Many micro-organisms, especially those which are motile, appear to be provided with flagella or cilia., developed either directly from the protoplasm of the orgardsm or as a secondary modification of the external membrane. These flagella may be met with singly at the ends of the organism, or in pairs in a similar position, or there may be sevei’al pairs arranged at the periphery. They stain {see Loeffler’s stain for flagella, page 51) like the mem- branes, and are found especially in those organisms that grow in fluid media and in contact with oxy- gen (page 8). Although those bacteria of interest to the surgeon are usually described as single-form growths, it must be remembered that under cer- tain conditions, as pohited out by Zopf, some of them may be poly- or pleo-morphic during certain stages of development. The Beggiatoa, for ex- ample, is said to be pleomorphic because it assumes at one time or another the several forms of cocci, rods, and leptothrix filaments, whilst the Actino- myces or Ray-fungus is so termed from the fact that in the lower animals it is made up of a series of club-shaped rays with the rounded ends of the clubs arranged at the periphery of a star. In man and in young colonies even in the lower animals, it does not exhibit this supposed characteristic arrangement. In iilace of or sometimes accompanying the ray-form, may be found cocci! usually arranged in chains or masses; these may be accompanied by eptotlmx filaments, which, interlachig freely, form a kind of felted network. _ These threads vary considerably in length and are some- times divided; or they may show no sign of division of any ind. borne of the threads are curved, aiul when they break they ciirved sections almost like spirilla or comma-.shapod t,amsms^; the cocci and threads are said to be the active fungus J'ipr. 1. — Cultiva- tion of Bacillus Violaceus. The dark masses are violet-coloured.