990 BI8L0GATI0N8. forwai’ds displacement are the reverse of the above. When there is not great swelling, the smooth, rounded contour formed by the upper row of the carpal bones can be plainly felt, and also the concave surfaces of the lower ends of the radius and ulna. When the injury is compound the diagnosis is easy. Treatment.—^Reduction is effected by extension and counter- extension, and the limb splinted carefully. Tlie subsequent swelling is excessive, and great care must be taken that the splints are not unduly tight. In fourteen days the plaster of Paris dressing can be applied, and the fingers moved daily. Movements of the wrist may be commenced in about five weeks. In compound dislocations re- section of the protruding bones may be needful, but amputation should never be perfoi-med unless the bones and soft parts are most extensively crushed. Dislocations of the carpal bones from each other,— Although the carpal bones are so strongly articulated, some of them have been found from time to time separately displaced, and usuaUy in the dorsal direction. Hamilton has found no single dislocation of the carpal bones, except in the case of the os magnum, pisiform and semi-lunar. These injuries may be compound, as seen in machinery accidents and gunshot wounds. The diagnosis is to be made by observing an abnormal dorsal projection in the situation of one of the bones, and care must be taken not to confound this with a thick-walled, deeply-seated ganglion. Reduction may be effected by direct pressure, and in compound injuries removal of the dis- placed bones is usually the wisest course to pursue. Dislocations of the metacarpal bones from the carpus.— The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be thrown backwards or forwards from the trapezium, and more rarely one or more of the metacarpal bones may be displaced backwards or forwards, com- pletely or incompletely. Such accidents are the result of falls, blows, twists, and especially machinery injuries. These dislocations are apt to be overlooked, especially where swelling has supervened. They are to be diagnosed by the undue prominence, posteriorly or anteriorly, of the base of the metacarpal bone, and in the case of the thumb by the fixity and loss of mobility of the metacarpal bone. When seen early they can be reduced by direct extension. When compound, the ends of the bones may be resected. Dislocation of the phalanges from the metacarpal bones, and from each other.—Any of the phalanges may be dis- placed from the metacarpal bones, but the injury is most common and important in the thumb, index and little fingers. These dislocations are usually backwards, the phalanx being thrown upon the dorsum of the metacarpal bone. Dorsal, palmar, or lateral dislocations of the second or last phalanges are also found. The last phalanx is most commonly implicated, especially the last phalanx of the thumb, and the principal cause of this accident is a fall or blow on the end of the digit, such as is inflicted by a cricket-ball. The diagnosis of these injuries is obvious, and they