DISLOCATIONS OF TEE WRIST. 989 or plaster of Paris dressing must be afterwards applied, or the dis- placement will return. Dislocations of the wrist; of the carpus from the radius. Causation and classification.—Dislocation at the radio- carpal joint is generally caused by heavy falls on the palms of the hands. It seems a question whether a Colles’ fracture should be pro- duced or a dislocation, but the bone usually gives way. The bond between the radius and ulna, by the powerful triangular fibro- cartdage, is very strong" The~numerous tendons which surround tlie wnst, as well as" the ligaments, render the ar-ticulation very secure, and not likely to be displaced. Heavy falls on the back of the hand may drive the carpus forwards. The displacement back- wards is the more common, the dislocation forwards exceptional, either displacement being rare. The writer has seen cases of pathological displacement and of congenital dislocation, and is inclined to think that accidents diagnosed as traumatic dislocations fig. 39S.—Dislocation of tho Carpus backwards. (After Anger.) of the wrist, are ready instances of fracture of the radius low down, or separation of the epiphysis. Both of these injuries closely simulate dislocation when the lower fragment is much dis- placed. Compound dislocations of the wrist from machinery accidents are not so uncommon. Morbid anatomy.—The anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments are more or less torn, the tendons displaced, and “ ploughed up ” from their grooves; the vessels and nerves may also be injured. Fractures of the lower ends of the radius and ulna may be discovered, and where the lesions of the soft parts are very extensive, the injury is most frequently compound. Symptoms.—In dislocation of the carpus backwards, the deformity is_Emch Kke tharof Colies’ fracture.(Fig. 398). There is a dorsal prominence, and anteriorly on a lower level is another prominence wth the flexor tendons stretched over it. Tlie whole hand is thrown backwards, and the fingers are flexed. On close examination it will be found that the styloid process of the radius is in its iiormal position, and does not move with the dorsal protuberance on exten- sion and rotation of the hand. The symptoms of tlie very rare