362 TUBERCULOSIS. seldom exhibit any tuberculous change, but are rather the seat of a cheloid formation. Cheloid is well known to be liable to occur in or about the neck, and especially to follow wounds that have been slow in healing or long irritated. The tubercizlous ulcer of the mucous membrane is of common occurrence, and, like the similar lesion on the skin, is very usually secondary. It is common at the orifices of the body, and is not infrequently associated with grave tuberculous disease elsewhere, as illustrated by the ulcers of the mouth in advanced phthisis, and of the anus in tuberculous disease of the colon or rectum. The tuberculous ulcer is met with on the lips, the palate, the tongue, the lining of the buccal cavity, the larynx, the alimentary canal, the bladder and urethra, and, indeed, no mucous surface can be said to be exempt from it. In appearance the ulcer is very like that met with on the skm. The edges are neither raised, indurated, nor everted. They are, on the other hand, flat, thin, sharp-cut, and bevelled or undermined. The surface is uneven, and covered with yellowish-grey sloughy-looking mucus, or with pale and weak granu- lations. In depth the ulcers vary greatly. The treatment of tuberculous ulcers is mainly local. The whole of the diseased tissue should be destroyed by the cautery and the sharp spoon. AU purple undermined skin should be sacrificed if sound healing is hoped for. The scraping should extend up to the region of undoubtedly sound skin. After the little operation the part should be dressed with iodoform. The tuberculous node.—This is known also as the strumous node, and as the scrofulous gumma. The term is applied to a localised tuberculous focus in the subcutaneous tissue. In a tubercular subject—and not usually in the subject of actual tuberculous disease—a small nodule is felt under the skin. It is commonly fixed, is not painful, but may be tender. The skin over it is normal. The little swelling, which is hard at first, increases and becomes softer. The skin covering it becomes adherent and reddish. Later, it assumes a deep purple colour, and beneath the discoloured area the now fairly extensive sweUing is felt to fluctuate. The skin in due course gives way in one or more places, and there results a tuberculous ulcer with undermined edges. Most of these deposits in the subcutaneous tissue are of small size. If, however, the giving way of the skin be long delayed, the undermining of the integument may extend over several square inches. Certain of these “ nodes,” especially when on the skull or over the shin, originate in the periosteum, and are evidently from the first deeply placed. They follow the course already indicated, save that on the scalp the skin undergoes little change in colour ; and when they have burst, or have been evacuated, an area of bare bone is demonstrated at the base. The treatment consists in an early incision and an early evacua- tion, by scraping of the diseased tissue. AU quite disorganised skin should be destroyed. A dressing of iodoform is then applied.