46i TUMOURS. It not infrequently happens that when a myoma is confined to one wall of the uterus, and appears as a single tumour externally, it will be found, on section, to consist of two or more tumours growing in association, but each possessing its own capsule. This holds good of many specimens described as “ general myomatous enlargement of the uterus,” in which the organ is so uniformly en- larged as to resemble a gigantic pear. Myomata arise in any part of the uterus, but they are most frequent in the body and fundus. They are rare in the cervix, but in this situa- tion very large examples are sometimes met with. The cei-vix is frequently involved in myomata arising in the anterior or posterior wall of the uterus. Myomata vary greatly in their rate of growth; those which grow slowly are, as a rule, very hard, and contain a lai-ge propor- tion of fibrous tissue: hard tumours rarely exceed the size of a fist, and if they become pedunculated, do not commonly grow big. The softer specimens con- Pig. 110.—Cavities, the result of Mucoid Degeneration of tain but little fibrOUS a Uterine Myoma. (Mnsenm, Middlesex Hospital,) ^iggu0 the cells are large, they grow rapidly, are very vascular, and often furnish a loud systolic murmur (Fig. 109). Myomata, when they project into the uterine cavity, cause marked hypertrophy of the walls of the uterus; when very large, and especially when projecting from the fundus, they distort the uteiine cavity. In many cases the tumour gradually dilates the cervical canal and is extruded from the uterus into the vagina, and may even protrude from the vulva. Occasionally the pedicle is broken and the tumour discharged. This is known as spontaneous detachment of a uterine myoma. When a myoma occupies the cavity of the uterus, whether it arise in the mucous membrane or wall of the organ, it is in part invested by mucous membrane: so long as the tumour remain in the uterine cavity this mucous mem- brane retains its columnar epithelium; when the tumour protrudes into the vagina the cells covering the exposed portion become