jttiology of spontaneous aneurysm. 589 and particularly in Great Britain and America, and by its occurring nmre often in development of (4) exciting atheromatous inflammation, diseased aitery. concussion of the mediastinum from a blow :fX s;Xm appears to be often the starting-point of an aortic Sramillary^resistance in the muscles; and by both of these effects raises ^the Irterial blood-pressure. It also, in some cases, sti etches or compresses an artery, and in this way excites atheroma^ and it may partially lacerate an already-diseased arteiy. Stiains at the knee are an important cause of popliteal aneurysm. (6) Alcoholic indulgence, like strain, may cause several ways : (a) By inducing frequently-repeated cardiac excite- ment • (b) in this way, and also by its direct action, exciting atheroma; (c) by setting up chronic renal disease leading to Mtoio-capillaiy , obstruction; (d) by exposing its subjects to iniuries and strains. , . , , i (71 Diathesis.—An aneurysmal diathesis has been spoken of as existing in cases of multiple aneurysm. These cases are, however more easily explained by the consideration that the causes of aneurysm are, to a large extent, general rather than local, a,nd, in view of this fact, it is remarkable how infrequently more than a single aneurysm is met with. n , , The influence of syphilis has already been referred to : some authorities regard it as a very important one; but it has not been proved to play any part in causing external aneurysm. Gout, by lead- ing to atheroma, to chronic renal disease, and to spasm of tin arterioles, and by being often associated with plethora, certainly pre- disposes to aneurysm. Rheumatism occasionally leads to aneurysm, by causing embolic arteritis ] it may also cause acute endarteritis, followed by aneurysm. Synillistry.—It is interesting to notice that aneurysms are not infrequently symmetrical. Aneurysm of each popliteal artery has often been met with, but such cases as aneurysm on each vertebral artery within the skull—and on no other artery of the body—or of each division of the hepatic artery, occur. This symmetry show.s how large a part “ constitutional ” causes play in the production of aneurysm. The explanation of this symmetry is found—in part, at least—in the following considerations. The arteries on the two sides of the body are in precisely identical anatomical conditions. In many cases the functional activity of the two sides is practically the same—this certainly applies in the case of the vertebral artery, and, in most occupations, to the popliteal artery ; the distending force is one and the same in all cases—the force of the heart. These three