SIGNS OF FRAG TURF. 751 fellow, the fold of the groin is deeper, and there is lordosis of the lumbar spine. This shortening is due to flexion. To avoid these sources of error, measurements should be taken with a graduated rod, like the instrument with which a shoemaker takes the length of a foot. Thus an error fi’om swelling is a,voided. Corresponding points over the bony prominences between which it is desired to measure should be marked with a pencil. To measure the whole length of the lower limbs, the rod should be 4 ft. 6 in. long; 8 in. from the upper end, 15 in. of brass riband should be attached at right angles to it, and there should be two travelling points on the rod. The upper 8 in. of the rod should be laid accurately in the mid- line of the abdomen; the pelvis should be so placed that the lower edge of the brass riband corresponds to the lowest perceptible point of the anterior spine on each side. It should be seen that there is no lordosis, that the limbs are lying flat and symmetrically on either side of the rod. The sliding points should now be placed in contact ■with corresponding points on the inner malleoli, and the difference, if any, read off! The position of the great trochanter shows whether shortening is due to injury (or disease) above or below it; two plans are used to determine it. N^laton’s line, which the top of the trochanter should touch, may be draAvn from the anterior superior spine to the most prominent point of the tuber ischii; the latter is especially vague, and it is often undesirable to move a patient about sufliciently to draw the line with any accuracy. Bryant’s triangle is less open to objection; with the patient on his back, a vertical line is dropped from each anterior spine, from this a horizontal line is drawn down to the great trochanter—if possible, to the tip behind; the com- pletion of the triangle is unnecessary. The two limbs being placed symmetrically -yith regard to the mid-line, the relative lengths of the vertical lines •will show whether one or other trochanter has been driven forwards or has fallen backwards, and the relative lengths of the horizontal hnes will show whether one trochanter is raised. By this method disturbance of the patient is avoided, and the vertical line gives a more accurate point to measure from than the iliac crest, and renders the error due to swelling less; it is the only line along which the distance of the trochanter from the anterior spine should be measured. The detection of deformity is often sufficient to render the diagnosis of fracture certain. In greenstick fractures, and fractures with firm impaction, we have to depend more or less entirely upon this sign. Deformity may, however, be the result of a fonner injury or disease, or even of some congenital peculiai’ity ; or it may be the result of the injury, although no fracture has occurred, as in the complete eversion of the lower limb, which may follow a bruise of the hip. On the other hand, in a larger number of fractures there is no discoverable deformity. (4) AI>noi'inal mobility in the length of a bone is a certain sign of fracture ; conceivably it may be due to an old ununited one.