INJURIES OF BONES. 860 to the bone for each point, and the hooks are inserted, eacli taking a firm hold superficial to the synovial membrane; the hooks are then screwed together till the fragments lock, and are left in six weeks; the punctures are dressed with iodoform powder or paste (made with 1 in 20 cai’bolic solution) and a little gauze and wool over all. The union is generally fibrous, and the after treatment must be as above to prevent stretching. In view of the length of time occupied by the above treatment, of the constant permanent inferiority of the injured limb leading with undue frequency to fracture of the other patella, and of the occasional very unsatisfactory results. Lister, in 1883, proposed that recent fractures from muscular action should be treated by wiring, with the proviso that no one should do the operation who could not keep the wound sweet. The operation is by no means easy in a simple transverse injury, and it becomes more difficult with oblique or irregular surfaces to obtain good coaptation. A flap, base in or out, should always be raised large enough to cover the whole deep wound; the joint is cleaned of all fluid and clot: clot is scraped from the broken surfaces and hang- ing tissues are cut away; if there is any difficulty in obtaining accurate contact two sutures (Fig. 310) should be passed, one on each side of the middle of the fracture. The bone should be bared where a hole is to be drilled and two artery for- ceps nipped on to the fibrous tissue reflected as guides to the spot. The drilling can be done with an ordinary bradawl, but is more likely to be accui’ate if done with less effort by a dental engine. A Thomas’s hollow needle or an aspirator needle of suitable size is useful for passing along the channel and withdrawing that end of the wire which must be passed from the broken surface; the sutures are of y^-inch silver wire; they are drawn tight, twisted, cut short, and hammered down; any capsular rent is sewn up, the wound closed, the limb fixed in a Thomas’s knee-splint, and a large conipressive dressing applied. The splint may be removed on the third day. As soon as the wound is healed, the patient should be drilled daily into moving the limb. Bony union is obtained, and the patient is walking in five to six weeks. The results of the operation vary greatly with the surgeon. Many cases have suppurated, great dangers have been run, knees liave become ankylosed, or amputation has been required; even where all has gone well, prolonged pain and stiffness have resulted j re-fractiire, too, has occurred from imperfect union, the skin some- times tearing. But strong bony union has generally resulted, the Pig. 309.—M:ilgaigne’s Hooks.