INJURIES OF BONES. 816 Lastly, if there be abnormal mobility between the head and the shaft, there is a fracture of either the anatomical or surgical neck, or a separation of the epiphysis. Under twenty the injury is probably of the latter kind. The signs of it and of fracture of the surgical neck bear some resemblance to those of inward dislocation, but the head is in the socket, the end of the shaft in the axilla is not like the head, there is not much difficulty in pressing the elbow to the side and removing the deformity, but it returns at once on re- moving the restraining force, and crepitus is marked when the con- ditions *are suitable. Fractures of the shaft of the humerus occur at all ages, and from all forms of vio- lence ; but of 85 cases of fracture of long bones from muscular action, 57 were of the humerus. INIore or less transverse fractures are common in children; later, the line is usually oblique, with tendency to short- ening. All the signs of fracture are, as a rule, easily obtained. When the fracture is between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the upper Fig. 261. Fig. 251.—A 262. Fig. 253. _ Humerus repaired after a comminuted Fracture at tlie lower End of tlie bicipital Groove. The upper fragment has been drawn inwards. A splinter 2^ ins. long projects into the insertion of the deltoid, having apparently been displaced by that muscle. (University College Museum, No. 197.) Fig. 252. ^A Humerus repaired after Fracture about the Middle. The upper fragment has been abducted by the deltoid. The lower fragment lies beliind and inside the upper. A column of dense bone, 3 ins. long and nearly as thick as the shaft fills up the angle inwards between the fragments. (University College Museum, No. 200.) Fig 253 —A Humerus repaired after transverse Fracture about the Middle. Tlie fragments form an angle salient forwards, and the lower fragment is rotated slightly in upon the upper. A deep groove is shown which was apparently occupied by tlie ulnar nerve. (University College Museum, No. 199.) fragment is drawn in and the lower out (Fig. 251); when it is below the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn out (Fig. 252) and the lower is undisturbed, except that, in all fractures of the shaft and upper end, the longitudinally run- The arching ning muscles endeavour to draw the lower fragment up. forwards shown in Fig. 253 is quite unusual so high up.