INJURIES OF BONES. 740 (b) a fracture is said to be com- minuted when either a whole bone is broken into bits (Fig. 209), or when, as is more common, splinters are broken off from the primary fragments (Figs. 208 and 211). The addition of a third small fragment is hardly in accordance with the idea suggested by the term “ com- minuted”; but we have no other general term. Comminution is a frequent result of direct violence, such as the impact and wedge-action of a bullet, or the passage of a wheel over a part; but it is often caused by indirect violence also. Thus, in fractures due to bending there is a tendency towards the for- mation of a wedge- shaped fragment on the concave side (Fig. 203, n), which again may be broken into many pieces; in spiral fractures a lozenge - shaped fragment is some- times separated between the spiral fissure above and below, and two vertical fis- sures, one on each side (Fig. 210); and an- other example is yielded by the splitting up of ^he lower end of the radius by impaction into it of the shatt. The splinters may be in situ, or more or less widely displaced into the surrounding parts; they may be more or lees completely stripped of r.a periosteum. Sometimes, especially over spongy T,,e foot of the Y bones, the periosteum is but little torn. TJsually the iniury to soft parts is proportionate to the comminution ; but the skin may preserve its con- tinuity over pulped soft parts and innumerable bony fragments (Fig. 209). On the whole, com- minuted fractures of the shafts of long bones are Fig 210. Leg Bones (viewed from the Front) * after Amputation fora compound commi- nuted Fracture of hotli hones. A spiral fissure f«) winds Irom.the B^nlar fossa up and in across the hinder aspect of the tibia on to the inner surface, wheie it forms the upper ed.ge of the gap shown. Two vertical fissures, b and c, are seen; they are joined at d on the astragalar surface aud again at e. The lozenge-shaped frag- ment between o, e, b, and c. has been lost. (University College Museum, No, 316.) separates the two con- dyles, while the two anus embrace the wedge-shaped lower end of the shaft. This end is slightly com- minuted. The fracture was simple, but the knee- joint suppurated. (Clwing Cross Sluseum, ^o. 390.)