•to 8UIIGI0AL BAOTEBIOLOQY. reflected liglit have a bluish appearance. Under the microscope they are rounded patches with uneven edges; “ at first they appear every- where as if piled up with ‘ glass-wool,’ later as if having dense, large centres.” Grown in gelatine there is little surface growth, but along the track of the needle a number of minute, white, cocoon-like bodies.are seen, which ultimately run together and form an irregularly crenated line; the gelatine is not liquefied. The bacilliis as culti- vated grows in the form of long threads of bacilli, which, though they might perhaps be mistaken for streptococci, are distinctly made up of the organisms above described. This is due to the fact that the bacillus so frequently resembles a diplococcus with a capsule. This organism is found in the blood, in the buboes, and in the spleen—in fact, in all the internal organs of patients sufiering from the plague. Mice, rats, guineapigs, and rabbits are all susceptible to in- oculation of the disease. Animals fed with pure cultivations of the bacillus, and with pieces of affected organs, die with symptoms of the plague, and with pathological appearances similar to those found in cases of anthrax, or of malignant oedema. ^ The organism is rendered innocuous by the action of direct sunlight continued for three or four hours ; when dried in ordinary daylight for a they are also killed ; as also by the action of moist heat at 80 C. for thirty minutes, or at 100° 0. for a few minutes. A one per cent, solution of carbolic acid, or of quicklime, destroys the organism in less than an hour. It is evident then, from the post-mortem _ appearances, that we have in this disease to deal with a hsemorrhagic septicsemic process, so that the organism naturally comes to be classified in the above ^°^OXiC saprophytic bacteria.—In consequence of the toxic effects of the products of certain saprophytic bacteria, it is necessaij to give a short description of some of those which have been found, especially in abscesses or, under certain conditions, even in the blood of animals affected. , , 1 Bacillus coli conimuHis (Plate II. Fig. 8)-—The best example of this group is the Bacillus coli communis, or Bactenum coli commune, described as Emmerich’s bacillus, or Bacillus rsea- politanus, from the fact that it was found by Emmerich in cases of diarrhoea in Naples. It is also probably identical with Biiegers bacillus, or the Bacillus cavicida. . This organism, which is constantly present in the faeces ot the human subject, and of many of the lower animals, ■“ . form of short rods, about 2/n in length and -flp m bieadth, w rounded ends. It sometimes appears almost^ like a micrococcu or short oval bacillus, sometimes arranged m pairs it is not stained by Gram’s method (page 51), but is readily brought out by the ordinary aniline staining methods. , , , ^ It grows rapidly at the room temperature, but better at about 37° to 38° C. It has a somewhat characteristic appearance when