244 MILITARY SURGERY. - a the apertures of entrance and exit, the presence of crepitus, and the abolition of the functions of the joint. Effects of the magazine bullet.—Since the last great war in Europe all the important Powers have been re-armed with a new rifle, in which missiles of a greatly-reduced calibre are fired far more rapidly than formerly. The effects of this new bullet have been gathered partly from experiment and partly from experience in actual fighting. The results from experiment contributed by Marsh, Habart, Brun, Delorme, and others show the following. The new bullet is characterised by its smallness, hardness, lightness, pointedness, high velocity, and ex- ternal cuirass (Fig. 44). As regards weight, one Martini-Henry weighs 46 grains more than two Lee- Metford bullets, and therefore the latter possess less stopping- power. As the human frame is not a solid resisting body, this decreased weight is not compen- sated for by the increased velo- city. On penetrating the body the track is so narrow that practi- cally no destruction of tissue remains in its wake, the path being cleaner and less lacerated. Such a bullet may pass between two contiguous bones without touching either. The number of wounded will be increased, as one missile can pass through a second or a third man, owing to its hard external cumass. All splintering of the missile is abolished, such as formerly took place with the Snider, and to a less extent with the Martini-Henry. Thus, so long as the bullet meets with no bone in its course, the wounds are comparatively simple. Should a hard compact bone be struck, the latter will be shattered, whilst cancellous tissue will be simply perforated without much further injury. There will be more deaths from haemorrhage, the vessels being more cleanly cut. From the lower trajectory of the missile, wounds of the skull may be more frequent. Finally, bullets will not ordinarily lodge, and thus a source of anxiety will be removed from the surgeon. The number of recoveries will be greater, the wounds being more cleanly cut and less septic. At distances between 400 and 1,200 metres the injuries to the bones and soft parts have been found less severe than with the old leaden Fig. 45.- -iBjury caused by the Lee-Metford BuUet. A, Head ol astragalus : B, tibial surface of astra- galus ; o, fragments of astragalus. (.British Med, Journal, Jnne, 1894.)