1090 mSEASES OP JOINTS. assuming that the ultimate results of operation for the reinov’al of the diseased tissue will be at least as good as those arrived at V)y the exi>ectant mode of ti-eatment, and that they will be, in one respect, very much better—i.e. in saving much time to the patient, and in placing him in a position to use the limb often in as many months as years by any other expectant method. Moreover, the amount of ioint tissue necessarily removed in operations by this line of treat- ment I hold to be far less than is usually destroyed where the disease takes its course, even under the best treatment by splints, etc. Operative measures.—As to the risks of operation for hip disease as at present done, they are very small, and thus one of the objections to this method of dealing with the disease has disappeared. This was formerly a great obstacle to operative interference with hip joint disease, for the mortality was large, having reached as high as 60 per cent, in some of the earlier series recorded. And even later, in 1878, undei’ the antiseptic regime, Mr. Croft’s statistics showed a death-rate of over 40 per cent. Now we may claim to have reduced the mortality of hip excision to nearly vanishing point. My own rather large series of operations of this kind shows no deaths on a great number of operations, and an ever-increasing improvement as regards the functions of the limb, and the absence of sinuses and general infection of the whole system. My mode of dealing with these cases of destructive tuberculous di^ase of the joint, whether it arise in the synovial membrane or in either of the bones, provided only that the liquefactive process is well marked and is clearly progressing, is as follows. It is understood that the operative procedure, as now described, is that employed in cases in which no sinuses have as yet formed, no matter how large the abscess. All care having been taken to prepare the patient for operation by several days or, if possible, a week or two of rest in bed, the joint is opened by a clean cut, all the tuberculous material is cleared out as thoroughly as possible, and the wound is closed from end to end without any drainage. This incision into the jomt may be made in several places—i.e. posteriorly, externally, or anteriorly. After a large experience of the various incisions, I ® preference decidedly to the anterior incision, first proposed m England by Mr. R. W. Parker, and in Germany at the same and quite independently, by the late Prof. Hueter, of Greifswald. This incision has the great advantage of reaching the abscess at tlie spot where, under the present conditions of previous treatment on the double Thomas’s splint, it most frequently presents under the skin. It has,- also, the merit that it divides no muscle fibres, no vessels of any importance, and no nerves, and interferes very little with the capsular structures. These last pomts are of the utmost importance for the nutrition of the parts involved during the process of reiiair, and for the future strength of the new joint a movable articulation be the result of the operation. The mcision ^m- menced about half an inch below and external to the anteiioi