ELBOW JOINT DISEASE. 1127 where a great deal of thickening of the synovial membrane remains with loss of powei’, the joint should be opened and washed out, and, at the same time, any redundant folds of synovial membrane should be excised. After this the incisions should be carefully closed, and usually without any drainage. In these cases much good often follows alternate hot and cold douche.s, followed by regular massage. Syphilitic disease of the elbow has no special features which need occupy us here. Enough has been said at page 1044 to enable the student to recognise and treat it. Tuberculous synovitis of the elbow in its general characters differs in no way from the same affection in other joints. {See page 1046.) It is a common affection, and a particularly serious one, the movements of the joints rarely escaping, unless the treatment be early and thorough. The symptoms are those of chronic synovitis, with pulpy swelling, most marked at either side of the olecranon behind the joint, but the lattei-, as a rule, is also generally swollen. The family and personal history of the patient, and chronicity of the affection, together with the absence of any other known cause for the persistence of the condition, are our chief guides in diagnosis. In these cases there is often but slight pain in ordinary movement, but there is much stiffness from the beginning, and the limb is kept semi-dexed and semi-pronated. The treatment of this condition is one of the most difficult problems in surgery. Where the affection is seen early in patients of fairly good physique, it may be arrested by the ordinary con- stitutional and local remedies for tuberculous synovitis combined {see page 1049), but where it has been neglected or appears from the first in delicate individuals, it is most intractable. One common experience, however, should guide us, at all events in very young children—^namely, that in them the disease may be very severe and run on to extensive abscess and sinuses, and yet in the end quiet down and leave the joint, to all intents and purposes, as good as before. In adults and half-gi’own young persons the case is quite different, and where abscesses once form the result is usually a stiff joint. With these facts before us, we should exhaust every kind of palliative treatment in young children, including Bier’s method (page 1050), before having recourse to' excision, while in the older patients excision offers a better prospect than waiting, in many if not in most cases. The aim of operation in such cases should be to excise as much of the synovial membrane as can be I'eached without desti’oying the functions of the joint. To do this the latter may be opened from behind in many ways, and a careful dissection be made in all directions. Perhaps the best means of carrying this out is to make an oval or H-shaped incision over the back of the joint, and then divide the olecranon and turn it up within the upper hap. If the joint be now fully flexed, the synovial pouches are thoroughly exposed, and can be