1134 DISEASES OF JOINTS. and locally, and the recognition of its true nature, we have had better results, and it may now be regarded as by no means so deadly as formerly. I have had lately several most encouraging cases where extensive disease of this joint with large abscesses was successfully combated, and brought to a standstill. Symiytoms. The history of tuberculous sacro-iliac disease is at first, as a rule, most indefinite. It is usually seen among youn" adults from twenty to thirty, though also met with among children and those in the decline of life. The first thing complained of is, as a rule, fatigue and a sense of weakness in the lower part of the back. This is followed by aching pain, aggravated by exertion, and severe towards the close of the day. But probably before this stage is reached the sense of weakness will have prevented the patient from taking any exercise, and he will remain I’ecumbent most of the day. This is not invariably the case, and I have seen a case terminating rapidly in death from abscess and exhaustion, in which the patient was able, for a while, to walk about and jar the pelvis by stamping with the foot, even while the abscesses were forming, without any marked distress or weakness. Everything depends upon the extent to which the synchondrosis is involved. If only one border is affected, and the rest of the joint is firm, the weight of the body may be well borne, as well as jars and strains. But if the whole surface be implicated, the patients will feel—as they express it—“ broken in two,” and the ilium may be so loosely attached to the sacrum that the 2^atient may be conscious of the grating. Sometimes, too, lateral pi'essure on the crests of the ilium may produce jDain in the joint, but this is obviously only likely to take place when considerable disease is present. If the disease be seated on the anterior aspect of the joint, pain along the course of the nerves, derived from the lumbar plexus, may be a notable symptom, and cases have been mistaken for ordinary sciatica which turned out to be sacro-iliac disease, associated with abscess, running along the course of the 2ilexus. In such cases, too, the psoas muscle may be irritated and more or less contracted. One of the early symptoms of this disease is certainly abscess. For very often the ligamentous supports of the joint remain firm enough to guard it against movement and production of any pain, until an abscess is formed and quite apparent. Such collections may present in various situations. Those derived from disease on the posterior aspect of the articulation will usually show best just over the joint; but they may travel outwards under the gluteus into the buttock, and j)resent below the border of the muscle. Those on the front of the synchondrosis may pass along the small rotators of the thigh, through the sciatic notch, and come to the surface behind the great trochanter, or, on the other hand, if the jiatient ^n’eserve the recumbent position, they may run upwards and over the upper border of the joint to present posteriorly. Again, they may burst into the cjecum or rectum. In these cases, if the abscess be allowed to burst spontaneously, the result is almost invariably the same.