XV. SUEGICAL DISEASES DUE TO MICEOBIC INFECTION AND PAEASITES. By GEORGE HENRY MAKINS, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Evelina Hospital for Children. I. POST-MORTEM WOUNDS. .ffitiolog’y.—The frequent occurrence of local or general septic infection amongst those employed in making autopsies has led to the use of the above name for a certain class of wounds followed by severe general and local symptoms. Similar infections, however, may be incurred by the surgeon, the symptoms of which differ in no way from those of the classical post-mortem wound. The special characters of these cases do not depend on any one specific organism, but probably on several; and this view is supported by the general resemblance of the local process to that observed in cellulitis fi'om other causes. Individuals differ greatly in susceptibility to these infections, and beyond this, a certain immunity seems to be acquired by those habitually emjDloyed in the dead-house; such men are rarely attacked, the commoner victims being the new hand or the unaccustomed student. Common experience, however, while nega- tiving the presence of a single specific virus, offers striking evidence of the special dangers dependent on the handling of the bodies of sub- jects who have died of pyaemia, septicaemia, or peritonitis; from in- fection from such sources the most serious forms of post-mortem wound have been seen to result. Fresh corpses, again, are by far the most dangerous, the post- mortem room furnishing the cases in which both local and general symptoms reach their extreme degree; while infections from the dissecting-room are usually followed by moderate local reaction and slight general symptoms. A wound is the commonest mode of infec- tion, and this is often of a trifling nature. Severe wounds usually bleed, and thus the poison may be removed; and again, the discomfort accruing from them leads to more thorough disinfection, and probably cessation of work. Pre-existent abrasions, or wounds of a slight nature, unaccompanied by pain or hinmorrhage, are a much more fertile source of trouble. The most striking characteristics of the