4 Clinical Manuals For Practitioners and Students of Medicine. Complete Monographs on Special Subjects. Published by CASSELL COMPANY. “A valuable series, which is likely to form, when com- pleted, perhaps the most important Encyclopaedia of Medicine and Surgery in the English language.”—British MedicalJournal. Diseases of the Shin. An Outline of the Principles and Practice of Dermatology. By Malcolm Morris, F.R.C.S. Ed., Surgeon to the Skin Department, St. Mary’s Hospital, London. With Coloured Plates and Woodcuts. Third Thousand. lOs. 6d. On Gall-Stones and Their Treatment, By A. W. Mayo Robson, F.R.C.S., Professor of Surgery in the York- shire College of the Victoria University, &c. &c. Illustrated. 9s. “ There can be no question that this book well repays perusal, and will be the work to which all practitioners and students will turn for information on the surgery of the g^W-h\a.ddQt» —ProvincialMedical youmat. The Pulse. By Sir W. H. Broadbent, Bart., M.D., F.R.C.P., Senior Physician to, and Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at St Mary's Hospital. 9S. ** There Is so much that is Interesting and well done, that It is hard to emphasize Hospital. Ophthalmic Surgery* By R. Brudenell Carter, F.R.C.S., Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery at St. George’s Hospital; and W. Adams Frost, F.R.C.S., Assistant Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Joint-Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery at St. George's Hospital. With Chromo Frontispiece and 91 Engravings. Second Edition. 9B. “Its clearness and conciseness will cause it to be welcomed by students and young practitioners as an agreeable and useful guide to the modem practice of eye diseases."— British Medical Journal, Diseases of the Pectum and Anus. By Charles B. Ball, M.Ch. (Dublin), F.R.C.S.I., Surgeon and Clinical Teacher at Sir P. Dun's Hospital. With Chromo Plates and 61 Engravings. Second Edition. 98. “ As a full, clear, and trustworthy description of the diseases which It deals ^th. It is certainly second to none in the language. The author Is evidently well read literature of the subject, and has nowhere failed to describe what Is bert up to date. The model of what such a work should BristolMedico-Chirur^ical Journal, Diseases of the Breast. By Thomas Bryant, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at Guy’s Hospital. With 8 Chromo Plates and numerous Engravings. 9s. *' Mr. Bryant is so well known, both as an author a surgeon, t^t we are absolved from the necessity of speaking fully or critically of bis work,”—77k Lancet,