739 COMPLETE FllAOTmt.ES. hiter, this filled with callus. A post-mortem two years later confirmed the diagnosis. A case of fracture of the clavicle from the acromial end to a point just external to the sternal end, recorded by Cliassaignac, deserves to be mentioned. Kronlein saw the humerus longitudinally split in a man of 27, who was endeavouring to lift a heavy ladder. The subcutaneous fracture suppurated, necrosis of the fractured surfaces resulted, and the diagnosis was made through incisions at either end of the arm. Recovery was complete only after two years, the shoulder and elbow being completely ankylosed. Ki’onlein recorded also three cases of longitudinal fracture of the proximal phalanx of the fourth and fifth fingers ; union was slow, and a good deal of stifihess remained. A few almost complete longitudinal fissures of long bones have been figured. This fracture has not been produced experimentally. The points which would probably characterise a longitudinal fracture are :—Early swelling along the whole length of the bone; possibly the detection of a longitudinal fissure in a subcutaneous part; no angular or rotatory defoi’mity, no shortening; crepitus tliroughout the length of the bone on pressing the fragments together, on moving them upon each other, or in rotating a distal portion of the limb ; swelling and tenderness of the joint at each end of the broken bone. The prognosis is necessarily less favourable than in less extensive fractures. Separation of small fragments of hone.—The breaking off of a bony process undoubtedly constitutes a complete fracture ; but it does not destroy the continuity of the weight-bearing or force- transmitting portion of the bone, and this has often led to the placing of these fractures among the “ incomplete.” The amount of bone broken or torn off varies from a thin surface layer to which a tendon is attached, to a whole process with more or less of the adjacent bone. The cause may be direct violence—as when the acromion is broken by a fall on the point of the shoulder, the coracoid process by a wheel passing over its point, or the spine of a vertebra by a blow. Or the cause may be indirect violence, of which the following are examples—fracture of the head of the radius, or of part of the lower end of the humerus from a fall on the hand; or tension of a liga- ment, stronger than the bone to which it is attached, which it then tears off, e.g. fracture of the epitrochlea in dislocations of the elbow, fracture of the styloid process of the ulna in Colles’ fracture, and many other small fractures accompanying dislocations; or, lastly, fracture of the tuberosity of the os calcis, or of the gi’eat tuberosity of the humerus, from tension of muscle, probably always due to contraction. Y 2 Fig. 209.—Extensive Com- mimition of Os Calcis, from a lunatic who jumiied from a third floor window and alighted on his feet. The fracture was simple. (Clmr- ing Cross Museum, No. 421.)