906 niSJjJASES OF BONES. and cranium, which slowly and steadily increase in size and produce the most hideous deformity. The osteoma, with which it may be compared, is an isolated outgrowth of bone, whereas hyperostosis is an enlargement of the whole bone, all its processes being involved in the growth. As it increases in size, it becomes very irregular, and other bones in the neighbourhood become similarly afi'ected. The eyes are often displaced, from the gradual diminution of the orbital cavity, and the nerves are compressed, from the narrowing of the foramina through which they pass. Pain, blindness, and deformity are the principal clinical features with which we have to contend. {See also Article XXXYII., on Diseases of the Head, Vol. II.) Many years may elapse befoi’e these symptoms justify any operative interference ; and then only when it is more or less unilateral is it possible in such cases to interfere with advantage to the patient. TRANSPLANTATION OF BONE. Under this heading may be included re-implantation of bone which has been removed, as in trephining operations, and true grafting, or transplantation, in which a piece or pieces of bone are removed entirely from one part to another or from one patient to another. With regard to the first, it was formerly the piactice to divide the disc of bone that had been removed into small fragments before it was re-implanted. In young bone certainly this lias been found to be unnecessary if the disc is not very large. In old bone, what- ever its size, it v'ould probably be wisest to drill one or more holes through it, to prevent the possibility of necrosis. Macewen has pointed out that in returning large slabs of bone after trephining, the best practice to ensure its continued vitality and to maintain drainage is to punch or drill holes a quarter-inch in diameter, so that instead of solid bone, a mere lattice-work is left. There is no doubt about the possibility of successfully trans- planting a piece of human bone into a freshly-made wound. Mac- ewen published a remarkable case in the Proceedings of the Royal Society in May, 1881, which illustrates this line of practice. Wedges of bone w’ere removed from the tibiie of children who required osteotomy for deformity, and were planted between the muscles of a boy’s arm whose diaphysis had been lost a year previously from infective periostitis. The two epiphyses were even- tually successfully united, and the boy obtained a useful arm. The wedges of bone were minutely divided, irrespective of the jierios- teum, and placed in a groove previously made between the muscles of the boy’s arm. The operation was performed on three separate, occasions, two wedges being used each time. Young and vascular bone may not require such minute sub- division ; but if subdivided, care should be taken not to crush the bone, which should be cut as cleanly as possible. The part most likely to be successful for transplantation is that immediately