JfyEMOBllJtAGi!. ^15 to the faitliest part of the cyst to be stuffed, and then carefully paid in, so us to hll up the cavity uniformly from the bottom, every part of the cavity being carefully filled. (e) In cases of deep hsemorrhage where other means, such as ligature, cannot be employed, and where the pressure can be applied directly to the bleeding vessel, and against structure.s firm enough to aflbrd counter-pressure : e.g. deep haemorrhage in perineal cystotomy. Pressure should not be employed in any case of deep haemondiage unless it can be applied directly to the bleeding vessels, and without injury to the surrounding parts; it should never be used for deep arterial bleeding in the form of a pad applied on the surface with a thick layer of soft elastic tissue between it and the vessel to be occluded. The graduated compress is a relic of antiquity that should very rarely, if indeed ever, be used. Pressure is sometimes made over the main arteiy or arteries of a part as an accessory to other modes of treatment; for example : if a pad is used to control bleeding from the palm, a piece of catheter may be banda.ged on over the radial and ulnar arteries in the fore-arm, to lessen the force of the circulation in the hand. 2. Cold acts as a haemostatic by exciting contraction of the muscular coat of vessels. It is, therefore, of no avail in vessels which are only partly severed except as it diminishes the blood supply to the part; and it is more effectual in arterial than in venous haemorrhage. It acts quickly. Sucking ice is used to arrest bleeding from the mouth and throat; iced injections will control many cases of epistaxis; a stream of iced water over a wound is often efficient in bleeding from small arteries or capillaries; and an ice-bag or poultice applied to the surface will moderate bleeding in deeper parts beneath. The mere exposure of a wound to the air will some- times suffice to arrest bleeding that had been kept up by the natural warmth of the body. It is important to remember that prolonged cold exerts a depressing influence upon the heart. 3. llcat acts like cold, by causing contraction of the muscular coat of a blood-vessel, and its effect is quickly produced. A tem- perature between 80° F. and 105° F. favours vascular engorgement, and over 180° F. it injures (bums) the tissues. As a hsemostatic, water, sponges, or cloths of a temperature between 120° F. and 150° F. are used. Heat is extremely useful in bleeding from very vascular parts, as the face, the external genitals, the uterus, and inflamed bone. It cannot be relied upon to control bleedintr from veins or large arteries. Under a stream of hot water, operations upon the face and other very vascular parts become almost bloodless. Irrigation with hot boiled water is an admirable means of arresting bleeding from the uterus, abscess cavities, cysts, or cavities in bone.'' 4. Styptics are chemical agents that arrest hsemorrhage by causing contraction of arteries, coagulation of albumen, and separa- tion of fibrin. Unless the clot they produce fills and adlieres to the opening in the bleeding vessel, it is of no value; and it is for this reasoix that styptics so often fail, for the stream of blood washes them u 2