140 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. Glnzo, to. Cold Joints, &c. GLAZE, to. Cold Joints, &c. Melt Ihn glazo by placing tho vessel which contains it, into tho bain marie or saucepan of boiHug water ; brush it over tho meat with a paste-brush, and if in places it is not quite covered, repeat tho operation. Tho glazo should not bo too dark a colour, GOLDEN PUDDING. Ingredients.— ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, \ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of marmalade, ;j lb. of sugar, 4 eggs. J/oc/e.—Put the bread- crumbs into a basin ; mix with them tho suet, which should be finely minced, tho marmalade, and the sugar ; stir all these ingredients well together, beat the eggs to a froth, moisten the pudding with these, and when well mixed put it into a mould or buttered basin ; tie down with a floured cloth, and boil for 2 hours. When turned out, strew a little iine- tiifted sugar over tho top, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, \\d. Suf- ficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The mould may be ornamented with stoned raisins, arranged in any fan- ciful pattern, before the mixture is poured in, which would add very much to the appearance of the pudding. For a plainer pudding, double the quantities of the bread-crumbs; and if the eggs do not moisten it sufficiently, use a little milk, GOOSE, Green. Ingredients.—Goose, 3 oz. of butter, popper and salt to tasto. Mode.—Geese are called green till they are about four months old, and should not bo stuffed. After it has been singed and trussed, put into tho body a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the butter to moisten it inside. Koast before a clear fire for about ^ hour, froth and brown it nicely, and serve with a brown gravy, and, when liked, goose- berry-sauce. This dish should be gar- nished with water-cresses. Time.—About 3 hour. A verage cost, is. 6d. each. Suf' ficient for 5 or (i persons. Scasonalle in June, July, and August. GOOSE, Hashed. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —Tho remains of cold roast gooso, 2 onions, 2 oz. of butter, 1 pint of boiling water, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, pep- per and salt to tasto, 1 tablespoonful of port wino, 2 tablespoonfuls of rausbroom Goose, Hoast ketchup. Mode.—Cnt up the goose int • pieces of tho size required ; the inftri( joints, trimmings, &c., put intoaKtov pan to niake tho gravy ; slice and fry il onions in the butter of a very pale browr add those to the trimmings, and poi over about a pint of boiling water; ste these gently for ^ hour, tlien skim an strain the liquor. Thicken it with fl'm and flavour with port wine and ketchu ^ in tho above proportion ; add a seasonirt Z, of pepper and salt, and put in the pieco tJ of gooso; let these get thoroughly hiu y through, but do not allow them to boi * and serve with sippets of toasted bre;i( Time.—Altogether, rather more than hour. Average cost, exc]usi\'ootthe coil ^] goose, id. Seasonable from Scptcmbo i_ to March. ^ GOOSE, Roast. t Ingredients. — Goose, 4 large oniona w 10 sage-leaves, ^ lb. of bread-crumb*f \h oz. of butter, salt and popper to ta<!ti 1 egg, Choosijig and Trussing.—Solci a goose with a clean white skin, plum breast, and yellow feet: if these lattc are red, the bird is old. Should the wc; ther pcraiit, let it hang for a few day= by so doing the flavour will be very mi; , improved. Pluck, singe, draw, and can fully wash and wipe the goose ; cut o i tho neck close to tho back, leaving' tl ■ skin long enough to turn over; cut : tho feet at the first joint, and sei>arat the pinions at the first joint. Beat itti |^ breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put: skewer through the under part of eac wing, and having drawn up the 1 closely, put a skewer into the middle 1'*' to find 4 BOAST GOOSB. each, and pass the samo quite throng the body. Insert another skewer int the small of tho log, bring it close dow to tho side-bone, run it through, the saino to tho other side. Now the end of tho vent, and make n the skin sufficiently large for the ■ of tho rump, in order to keep in ' soning. jl/of^e.—Make a snge-ai stuffing of tho above ingredien! into the body of tho goose, and si ■'It