THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 329 Sprats, Dried through the eyes ; dredge with flour, and broil them on a gridiron over a nice clear fire. The gridiron should be rubbed with suet. Serve very hot. Time.— 3 or 4 minutes. Average cost, Id. per lb. Seasonable from November to March. To Choose Sprats. — Choose these from their silvery appearance, as the brighter they are, so are they the fresher. SPRATS, Dried. Dried sprats should be put into a basin, and boiling water poured over them ; they may then be skinned and served, and this will be found a much better way than boiling them. SPRATS, Fried in Batter. Ingredients. — 2 eggs, flour, bread- crumbs ; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Wipe the sprats, and dip them in a batter made of the above ingredients. Fry of a nice brown, serve very hot, and garnish with fried parsley. Sprats may be baked like heirings. SPROUTS, to Boil Young. Ingredients.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. JfocZe.—Pick away all the dead leave's, and wash the greens well in cold water; drain them in a colander, and put them into fast-boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, until tender; and the moment they are done, take them up, or their colour will be spoiled ; when ! well drained, serve. The great art in cooking greens properly, and to have them a good colour, is to put them into plenty of fast-boiling water, to lot them toil very ^ickly, and to take them up the m^Xient they become tender. Time. —Brocoli sprouts, 10 to 12 minutes; k young greens, 10 to 12 minutes; sprouts, 12 minutes, after the water boils. Sea- sonable.—Sprouts of various kinds may be had all the year. i STEW, Irish. Ingredients.—S lbs. of the loin or nock of mutton, 5 lbs. of potatoes, 5 large onions, popper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode.— Trim off some of the fat of the above quantity of loin or neck of mutton, and cut it into chops of a moderate thickness. Stilton Cheese Pare and halve the potatoes, and cut the onions into thick slices. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of mutton and onions, and season with pepper and salt; proceed in this manner until the stewpan is full, taking care to have plenty of vegetables at the top. Pour in the water, and let it stew very gently for 2^ hours, keeping the lid of the ste^vpan closely shut the wJiole time, and occasionally shaking the preparation to prevent its burning. Time. —2| hours. Average cost, for this quan- tity^ 2s. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—^viit&hlQ for a winter dish. STEW, Irish. Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of the breast of mutton, 1^ pint of water, salt and pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of potatoes, 4 large onions. Mode.—Put the mutton into a stewpan with the water and a little salt, and let it stew gently for an hour; cut the meat into small pieces, skim the fat from the gravy, and pare and slice the potatoes and onions. Put all the ingre- dients into the stewpan, n layers, first a layer of vegetables, then one of meat, and sprinkle seasoning of pepper and salt between each layer; cover closely, and let the whole stew very gently for 1 hour, or rather more, shaking it fre- quently to prevent its burning. Time. —Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. Note.—Irish stew may be prepared in the same manner as above, but baked in a jar instead of boiled. About 2 hours or rather more in a moderate oven will be sufficient time to bake it. STILTON CHEESE. Stilton cheese, or British Parmesan, as it is sometimes called, is generally pre- ferred to all other cheeses by those whose authority few will dis- pute. Those Mayor June are usually served at Christmas; or, to be in prime order, should be kept from BIILIOir OHBBSB. 10 to 12 months, or even longer. An artificial ripeness in Stilton cheese ia