264 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Potato Soup wards, or tho flakes will fall, and servo as hot as possible. Time.—^ to J hour to boil the potatoes. Average cost, 4s, per bushel. Sufficient,—6 potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO SOUP. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of mealy potatoes, boiled or steamed very dry, pepper and salt to taste, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.— When the potatoes are boiled, mash them smoothly, that no Jumps remain, and gradually put them to tho boiling stock ; pass it through a sieve, season, and sim- mer for 5 minutes. Skim well, and serve with fried bread. Time.—h hour. Ave- rage cost, lOd. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Svfficicnt for 8 persons. POTATO SOUP. Ingredients.—1 lb. of shin of beef, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 onion, h, a pint of peas, 2 oz. of rice, 2 heads of celery, pepper and salt to taste, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, chop the potatoes and onion, and put them into a stewpan with the water, peas, and rice. Stew gently till the gravy is drawn from the meat; strain it off, take out tho beef, and pulp the other ingredients through a coarse sieve. Put the pulp back into the soup, cut up the celery in it, and simmer till this is tender. Season, and servo with fried bread cut into it. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, 4(i. per quart. Seasonable from Septem- ber to Jlarch. Sufficient for 12 persons. POTATO SOUP (very Economical). Ingredients.—4 middle-sized potatoes well pared, a thick slice of bread, 6 leeks peeled and cut into thin slices as far as the white extends upwards from the roots, a teacupful of rice, a teaspoonful of salt, and half that of pepper, and 2 quarts of water. Mode.—The water must be completely boiling before any- thing is put into it; then add tho whole of the ingredients at once, with tho ex- ception of tho rice, tho salt, and tho copper. Cover, and let these como to a brisk boil; put in the others, uud let tho whole boil slowly for an hour, or till all the ingredients are thoroughly done, and their several juices extracted and mixed, I'mc.—2A hours. Average cost, Potatoes, to Boil BA.E£D POTATOES SEEVEI Iir VKVKVS. Zd. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. POTATOES, Baked. Ingredients. — Potatoes. Mode. — Choose large potatoes, as much of a size as possible; wash them in lukewarm water, and scrub them well, for the browned skin of a baked potato is bj many persons considered the better pari of it. Put them into a moderate oven and bake them for about two houva, turning ^^^^ them three or four times whilst they are cooking. Servo them in a napkin immediately they are done, as, i kept a-long time in the oven, they hav. a shrivelled appearance. Potatoes ma; also bo roasted before the fire, in ai American oven ; but when thus cooked they must be done very slowlj'. Do no forget to send to table with them a piec of cold butter. Time.—Large potatoes in a hot oven, Ih hour to 2 hours ; in : cool oven, 2 to 2.h hours. A verage cosi 4s. per bushel. 'Sufficient.—AUow 2 t each person. Seasonable all the j'oaii- but not good just before and whilst nev;< potatoes are in season. POTATOES, to Boil. Ingredients.—\0 or 12 potatoes; tt^ each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heape* tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose potatoes of an equal size, pare thenra take out all the eyes and specks, and they are peeled, throw them into col water. ■ Put them into a saucepan, wit sufficient cold water to cover them, wit salt in the above proportion, and Ic them boil gently until tender. Ascertai when they are done by thrusting a for in them, and take them up the momei they feel soft through ; for if they ai left in the water afterwards, they bccon- waxy or watery. Drain away tho wate put tho saucepan by the side of the fir with the lid partially uncovered, to alio the steam to escape, and let the potatoi get thoroughly dry, and do not alio them to get bunit. Their superfliioi moisture will evaporate, and the potatoc if a good &ort, should bo perfectly ir.ca and dry. Potatoes vary so much in qnalif and size, that it is difficult to give tl exact time for boiling; thoy should I I