TIID DIOTIONAHY OF COOKER?. 220 Omelette aux Confitures Biightly salted; a picco of fresh tunny tho size of a hen's egg, to which add a small ehalot already choiipod; hash up together the roe and the tunny, so as to mix them well, and throw the whole into a sauce- pan, with a sufiicient quantity of very good butter : whip it up until the butter is molted! This constitutes tho specialty of the omelet. Take a second piece of butter, d discrkion, mix it with parsley and herbs, place it in a long-shaped dish destined to receive the omelet; squeeze the juicG of a lemon over it, and i^lace it on hot embers. Beat up 12 eggs (the fresher the better); throw up the saut6 of roe and tunny, stirring it so as to mix all well together ; then make your omelet in the usual manner, endeavoui-ing to turn it out long, thick, and soft. Spread it carefully on the dish prepared for it, and serve at once. This dish ought to be reserved for recherche ddjetiners, or for assemblies where amateurs meet who know how to eat well: washed down with a good old wine, it will work wonders. Note.—The roe and the tunny must be beaten up (saut€) without allowing them to boil, to prevent their hardening, which would prevent them mixing well with the eggs. Your dish should be hollowed towards the centre, to allow the gi-avy to concentrate, that it may be helped with a spoon. The dish ought to be slightly heated, otherwise the cold china will extract all the heat from the omelet. OMELETTE AUX COWFI- TUBES, or Jam Omelet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot, strawberry, or any jam that may be preferred. Mode.—Make an omelet, only instead of doubling it over, leave it flat in the lina. When quite firm, and nicely brown on one side, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, spread over the middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each side ; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. A i^retty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing tlie batter into 3 or 4 portions, and frying them separately; they should then be spread each one with a different kind of preserve, and tho omelets rolled over. Always sprinkle sweet omelets with sifted sugar before being sent to table. Time,~i to 6 minutes. Average cost, Omelette Souffl§ Is. 2d. »SM/(«'e;i< for 4 persons, Season^ able at any time. OMELET, Bachelor's, Ingredients.—2 or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of fiour, h teacupful of milk. Mode.—yisiko a thin cream of the flour and milk; then beat up tho eggs, mix all together, and add a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when very hot, pour in tlie batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire ; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a few shreds of onion ; double the omelet dex- terously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can be made by the same process, sub- stituting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. Time. — 2 minutes. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient for 2 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. OMELET, Plain Sweet. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 ox, of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar. Mode.—Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the whites of 3 ; whisk them well, adding the sugar and 2 oz. of the butter, which should be broken into small pieces, and stir all these ingredients well together. Make the remainder of the butter quite hot itt a small frying-pan, and when it com- mences to bubble, pour in the eggs, kc Keep stirring them until they begiu to set; then turn the edges of the omelet over, to make it an oval shape, and finish cooking it. To brown the top, hold tha pan before the fire, or use a salamander, and turn it carefully on to a very hot dish; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Ave7-age cost, lOd. Sufficient for 4 per« sons. Seasonable at any time. OMELETTE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 5 oz. of jjoundod sugar, flavouriug of vanilla, orange-flour water, or lemon-rind, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of rice-flour. Mode. —Separate tho yolks from tho whites of the eggs, add to the former the sugar, the rice-flour, and either of tho above flavourings thiit may be preferred, and stir these ingredients well together. Whip the whites of the eggs, mix them