xxlv Philosophy of Housekeeping. CHILBLAINS. 144. Between three and four of a cold winter's night, the Chilblains begin their torture, and the poor little things to cry with pain. The circulation is in fault, and the vital energy must be increased in order to cope with the depressing influence of the cold. The child should take strengthening medicine, as quinine or steel (under advice, of course), or stout or port wine at eleven o'clock in the day, and the feet must be kept unchilled by plenty of exercise. If chilled after a walk, getting wet unavoidably, or after a long journey, the little feet must be judiciously unchUled by placing them in lukewarm water and bay salt, and gradually adding warmer water until quite hot, over blood heat; let the feet remain in this until the water cools perceptibly (it is easy to amuse the child with pretty stories), then carefully dry and wipe with a soft towel, and then gcntlj rub tVe feet with the hands until they are " bone dry;" this must be done the very day the cLi:i a;)pears, or it will be more dlflScult to cure, and must be repeated every other night if the chills do not disappear. 145. For the chilblains, when they have been allowed to get to the irri- tating stage, there are several remedies—one to be had of Keating, chemist, S<. Paul's Churchyard, called Eidolon, and the other, which instantly stops th3 itching, is as follows :—For unh-olen chilblains only: | oz. hydrochloric aoil, diluted, 6 oz. camphor water, 30 drops hydrochloric acid, diluted. This recipe contains a deadly poison, and must never be used except by experisnced and responsible hands—indeed, none but a mother should apply it. Any one may use the Eidolon, which is equally effective. These remedies are for unhrohen chilblains only. When chilblains do manifest themselves, the best remedy, not only for preventing them ulcerating, but overcoming the tingling, itching pain, and stimulating the circulation of the part to healthy action, is the liniment of belladonna (hoo drachms), the liniment of aconite {o7ie drachm), carbolic acid (ten drops), to collodion flexile (one oii.7ice), painted with a camcl's- hair pencil over the surface. But for broken chilblains, alas ! what can we do ? The only course is perfect rest, perfect warmth, and the application of a new skin. New skin can be formed of the inner skin of an unboiled egg, or of gold- beater's skin. When friction is to be avoided, these thin skins should be covered by court plaster cut longer than the wound, which should be entirely covered with the thin skin. Children should wear lamb's-wool stockings and thick boots (or cork soles), laced up the centre, or buttoned ; elastic sides should never bo worn by anyone suffering from chilblains. When the chilblains vesicate, ulcerate, or slough, it is better to omit the aconite, and apply the other components of the liniment without it. The collodion flexile forms a coating or protecting film, which excludes the air, whilst the sedative liniments allay the irritation, generally of no trivial nature. For chapped hands we advise the free use of glycerine and good olive-oil in the proportion of two parts of the former to four of the latter; after this has been well rubbed into the hands, and allowed to remain for a little time, and the hands subsequently washed with Castile soap and tepid water, we