xxi 4 Observations on Servants, with regard to their Coming and Going. household must be particular, must be strict and watchful. At the same time, this care and strictness does not preclude her being gentle in manuer and word, kind and sympathizing with her servants in illness or trouble, tending them and helping them when such assistance is needed, 129. And this kindness, this help, can bo given only by a careful, watchful misti'ess,—a woman whose life is regulated by strong principles, and by love of order. 130. If Waste is allowed to run riot in a household,—if articles of daily food are asted, badly bought, badly cooked, badly carved, and made the least of,—there . be no funds left in the mistress's hands with which to pay for the doctor her indness would call in to her sick servant. Cai'e and thrift mean poiver to help (hers; economy in daily life permits good actions in life's trials. Good house, 'fery comprises the duty of woman. Pages might be written upon this subject^ ut a few hints will sulBce to prove this to a thoughtful woman. 131. The Washing of a family should be put out where one servant alone is apt, as we have stated ; but many clever managers find time to do all the family ashing at home, and yet are not "in a muddle," as it is expressively termed, pon washing-day; the damping, folding, and ironing being done by the mis- ress, the hard labour by the maid. With the help of one of Bradford's washing- achines this labour is much reduced, and the wringer and mangle are equally andy. 132. But unless it is ahsolutely necessaiy, no lady should attempt to have the Thole of the washing done at home when one servant alone is kept. 133. In the Evening the mistress should only make the tea and attend to her iband ; the last thing at night she should inspect the doors and the whole of ilhe basement, noting every want of cleanliness in the scullery or wash-house, Lnd ascertaining that all be secure, and the plate in her room before she retires |o rest, which should be not later than eleven o'clock ; for, unless she is allowed \ certain season of rest, it is impossible for a woman, however willing, to rise at jcven, and fulfil the innumerable duties of a mistress. Many of the duties of a ni^tress, as occasional cooking, washing-up, &c., may be omitted when there is m experienced general servant, or where two maids are kept. We may mention hat, as it is desirable that a lady's hands should alwajs look white and nice, 'loves should be worn during dusting operations and household work, whenever lossiblo. Household gloves should be a quarter size larger than those ordinarily Ton, and have a loose cuff sewn to them, with an elastic at top to protect the leeves. 134. In Fasiilies where there are children and no nurse of any kind is kept, he mother is the ntirse, and should not attempt to pay and receive formal visits, but .St