S07 THE DICTIONARY OF COOEERf. Sauce, Plum-Pudding cost, M. tor this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding. SAUCE, Plum-Pudding. Iiifjredients.—1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 oz. of very fresh butter, 1 glass of Ma- deira, pounded sugar to taste. Mode.— Put the pounded sugar in a basin, with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand by the side of the fire until it is warm and the sugar and butter are dis- solved ; then add the rest of the brandy, with the Madeira. Either pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. This is a very rich and excellent sauce. Average cost, Is. 3rf. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding made for 6 persons. SAITCf], Quin's, an Excellent Fish Sauce. Ingredients.—^ pint of walnut pickle, h pint of port wine, 1 pint of mushroom ketchup, 1 dozen anchovies, 1 dozen shalots, ^ pint of soy, J teaspoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Put all the ingre- dients into a saucepan, having previously chopped the shalots and anchovies very small; simmer for 15 minutes, strain, and, when cold, bottle off for use; the corks should be well sealed to exclude the air. Time.—\ hour. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE, Reading. Ingredients.—2 J pints of walnut pickle, 1J oz. of shalots, 1 quart of spring water, ^ pint of Indian soy, ^ oz. of bruised ginger, ^ oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, 1 anchovy, | oz. of cay- enne, ^ oz. of dried sweet bay-leaves. Mode.—Bruise the shalots in a mortar, and put them in a stone jar with the walnut-liquor; place it before the fire, and let it boil until reduced to 2 pints. Then, into another jar, put all the in- gredients except the bay-leaves, taking care that they are well bruised, so that the flavour may be thoroughly extracted ; put this also before the fire, and let it boil for 1 hour, or rather more. Wlien the contents of both jars are sufficiently cooked, mix them together, stirring them well as you mix them, and submit them to a slow boiling for ^ hour ; cover closely, anif let them stand 24 hours in a cool lace ; then open the jar and add the ay-lcavcs ; let it stand a week longer closed down, when strain through a Sauce, a Good, for Steaks flannel bag, and it vnll be ready for usa- The above quantities will make ^ gallon. Time.—Altogether, 3 hours. Seasonabla, —This sauce may be made at any time. SAUCE, Robert, for Steaks, &g. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy or stock, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 tea* spoonful of vinegar, the juice of | lemon. Mode,—Put the butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and, when browning, throw in the onions, which must be cut into small slices. Fry them brown, but do not burn them ; add the flo\ir, shake the onions in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in the gravy and seasoning, and boU it gently for 10 minutes ; skim off the fat, add the mus- tard, vinegar, and lemon-juice; give it one boil, and pour round the steaks, or whatever dish the sauce has been pre- pared for. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average cost, for this quantity, Qd. Suffi- cient for about 2 lbs. of steak. Season- able at any time. JVote.—This sauce will be found an ex- cellent accompaniment to roast goose, pork, mutton cutlets, and various other dishes. SAUCE, Soyer's, for Plum-Pud- ding. Ingredients.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 1 gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wineglassfuls of brandy. Mode. —Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, and put the former into a stew- pan ; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens; but do not allow it to boil. Put in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, tc get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a boat or tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding, yime.—Altogether, 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons, SAUCE, a Good, for Steaks. Ingredients.—1 oz. of whole black pepper, J oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of salt, 5 oz. grated horseradish, oz. of pickled shalots, 1 pint of mushroom ketchup or walnut pickle. Mode.—Pound all tlio ingredients finely in a msrtar, and put