311 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Semolina Pudding, Baked. paper, and bake it from 1^ to 2 hours. This cako would be equally nice made with currants, and omitting the caraway seeds. Time.—li to 2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 6c?. Seasonable at any time. SEMOLINA PUDDma, Baked. Ingredients.—3 oz. of semolina, Ih pint of milk, \ lb. of sugar, 12 bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, 4 egsfs. il/o(Ze.—Flavour the milk with the bitter almonds, by in- fusing them in it by the side of the fire for about h hour; then strain it, and mix with it the semolina, sugar, and butter. Stir these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes ; then take them off, and gradually mix in the eggs, which should be well beaten. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake in rather a slow oven from 40 to 50 minutes. Serve with cus- tard sauce or stewed fruit, a little of which may be poured over the pudding. Time.—40 to 50 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SEMOLINA SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of semolina, 2 quarts of boiling stock. Mode.—Drop the semo- lina into the boiling stock, and keep stirring, to prevent its burning. Simmer ently for half an hour, and serve. Time. an hour. Average cost, lOd. per quart, or id. Svfficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. SEPTEMBER—BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 Persons. First Course. W S, Julienne Soup, g removed by ^ BriU& Shrimp Sauce, s- 4 2 Vase of W g Flowers. § Qiblet Soup, Qj removed by g Salmon and Lobster ra Sauce. September—Bills of Pare Dinner for 12 persons. First CoM7-se.—Mock-turtle soup ; soup h la Jardiniere; salmon and lobster sauce; fried whitings; stewed eels. ees—Veal cutlets; scalloped oysters ; curried fowl; grilled mushrooms. Second Coicrse.—Haunch, of mutton; boiled calf's head k la Bdchamel j braised ham roast fowls aux Crossons. Third Course; — Leveret; grouse; cabinet pudding, iced pudding; compOte of plums; deaa Entries. Lamb Cutlets and g French Beans. 0 »<* ■S CO 2 O Vase of <a Flowers. Sweetbreads and Tomato Sauce. Second Coiurse. r> Saddle of Mutton. & & Veal-and-Ham Pie. (ft a Vase of 5 Flowers. -a Broiled Ham, gar- "5 nished with Cauli- ^ flowers. Fillet of Veal. Third Course. g Partridges, removed by 'S Plum-pudding. S m Compote of Greengages 9 "a, g Vase of o 5^ Flowers. a o Q <u Hd Pastry Sandwiches. 5"' „ B Grouse &Br eadSauce, M H removed by S g. Nesselrode Pudding. t» Dessert and Ices.