iv Philosophy of Housekeeping. IS. Cooks will frequently suggest dishes: this is a great help to a young wife; but a mistress should possess courage to say, " I cannot afford this." 19. Ip a Servant find that her mistress is determined to see for herself that her orders involve no extravagance and no waste, she wjW do one of two things— either enter fully into her mistress's views, or leave her place. Both courses are good for tlie mistress, but naturally the first is the i^leasanter to all parties. 20. We once told a good-hearted but extravagant cook, that we should much like to give her carle blanche in cooking details, but that if we did so and spent all the housekeeping money on eating and drinking, we should be unable to do what we have always done—give the maids good medical advice when they were ill, pay for their medicine, and give them wine if ordered by the doctor. Her only reply was, " Lor, mum !" but a speedy change took place, and she remained a careful, faithful woman, until her marriage. 21. Invariably speak the exact truth to servants, be firm, but' mind and never address an unnecessary ^vord to a new servant; old tried servants are privileged, but new ones must be kept " in place," and all temptation to gossip checked at once. This is not easy to do kindly, but tact and dignity will make it easy. 22. Young Wives are often lonely and talk to their maids for a change; it is a bad plan, depend upon it, and often causes disagreeable liberties to be taken. 23. Before leaving the Lower Regions, the mistress should look into scullery, washhouse (larder she has been in), and kitchen proper ; see that all is neat audi tidy; remembering that she is steward of her husband's property, and accountable for any misuse of it. All things in the house belong to you and to him, and if you do not care to see every article clean, bright, and tidy, you cannot expect your: maids to care about it. 24. On LEAVING the Kitchen, it is the duty of the mistress to go into every room of the house to see if all is cleanly and in order; she should first go into her own room, which ought by this time to be arranged, unless it is the regular day fof- cleaning it thoroughly, when the housemaid should be busily engaged on it. Thea ., mistress should carefully inspect every portion of the room, as it is her careful audi ^ observant eye alone that will detect careless or unhealthy habits in her maids. 25. Windows should look bright and clean ; no dust should deface the fumitard.. or thread or speck the carpet; all water-vessels should be clean, and filled witl pure water: a small quantity of hot water bhould be placed in the cbambci utensils. The towels should be taken out to air in the garden, weather permitting or dried in the kitchen. 26. The bed should look neat, the counterpane being smoothly drawn over it-