53 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Butter, Melted Hit should bo melted several times by a ■moderate heat, with or without the addi- Ation of water, and as soon as it has been ■well kneaded, after the cooling, in order Ito extract any water it may have retained, ftt should be put into brown freestone ■pots, sheltered from the contact of the Kir. The French often add to it, after it •Lasbeen melted, apiece of toasted bread, ■Which helps to destroy the tendency of the butter to rancidity. BTTTTER, Melted (the Prencli Sauce Blanche). Ingredients.—\ lb. of fresh butter, 1 ;ablespoonful of flour, salt to taste, ^ gill )f water, \ spoonful of white vinegar, a very ittle grated nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the iour and water to a smooth batter, care- 'ully rubbing down with the back of a ipoon any lumps that may appear. Put t in a saucepan with all the other ingre- lients, and let it thicken on the fire, )ut do not allow it to boil, lest it should aste of the flour. Times.—1 minute to limmer. Average cost, 5d. for this quan- iiy. BUTTER, Melted, made with Milk. II Ingredients.—l teaspoonful of flour, \ oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk, a few grains of salt. Mode.—Hyx. the butter ind flour smoothly together on a plate, )ut it into a lined saucepan, and pour in he milk. Keep stirring it one xmy over 1, sharp fire; let it boil quickly'for a ninute or two, and it is ready to serve. Phis is a very good foundation for onion, obster, or oyster sauce : using milk astead of water makes it look much whiter and more dehcate. Tme.—Alto- ;ether, 10 minutes. Average cost for this uantity, Zd. JABBAGE, Boiled. Ingredients.—Ho each I gallon of water How 1 heaped tablcspoonful of salt- . very small piece of soda. Mode.— ■ick oflt all the dead outside leaves, cut ff as much of the stalk as possible, and Ut the cabbages across twice, at tho talk end ; if they should bo very lar^e ,iiarl,er them. "Wash them well in cold rater, place them in a colander, and rain ; then put them into 'plenty oi fast- oiling water, to which have been added lalt and soda in the above proportions, ■ptir them down once or twice in the Cabbage, Red, Stewed water, keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender. The instant they are done, take them up into a colander, place a plate over them, let them thoroughly drain, dish, and serve. Time.—Large cabbages, or savoys, 2 tof hour, young summer cabbage, 10 to 1* minutes, after the water boils. Averag cost, 2d. each in full season. Sufficient.^ 2 large ones for 4 or 5 persons. Sea sonahle.—Cabbages and sprouts of variou, kinds at any time. CABBAGE, Red, Pickled. Ingredients.—Red cabbages, salt and water; to each quart of vinegar, ^ oz. of ginger well bruised, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, and, when liked, a little cayenne. Mode.—Take off the outside decayed leaves of a nice red cabbage, cut it ia quarters, remove the stalks, and cut it across in very thin slices. Lay these on a dish, and strew them plentifully with salt, covering them with another dish. Let them remain for 24 hours, turn into a colander to drain, and, if necessary, wipe lightly with a clean soft cloth. Put them in a jar; boil up the vinegar with spices in the above proportion, and, when cold, pour it over the cabbage. It will be fit for use in a week or two, and, if kept for a very long time, the cabbage is liable to get soft and to discolour. To be really nice and crisp, and of a good red colour, it should be eaten almost im. mediately after it is made. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds much to the appearance of this pickle. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. Seasonable in July and August, but the piclde will be much more crisp if the frost has just touched the leaves. CABBAGE, Red, Stewed. Ingredients.—l red cabbage, a small slice of ham, i oz. of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablcspoonful of poundBd sugar. Mode.—Oni the cab- bage into very thin slices, put it into a stewpan, with tho ham cut in dice, tho butter, h pint of stock, and tho vinegar: cover the pan closely, and let it stow for 1 hour. When it is very tender, add the remainder of the stock, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the pounded sugar; mix all well together, stir over the firo until nearly all tho liquor is dried away.