374 Philosophy of Housekeeping. GAHNISH FOR TUBBOT. . Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flat tops, an on tlio top of each pyramid put rather more than a tablespoouful of white of eg , beaten to a stiff froth. Over this,'^Birinkle finely chopped parsley and tin ' raspings of a dark colour. Arrange tOTse on the napkin round the fish, one greei i and cue brown alternately. COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish; 6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Alode. —Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt over the thick par-; and inside of the fish, one or two . hours before dressing it, as this very mucl improves the flavour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water tc cover it. Be very particular not to pour the water on the fish, as it is liable t' break it, and only keep it just simmering. If the water should boil away, add ; little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt ir the above proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim very carefully; draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it oul and drain it; serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and horse- radish, ROAST PIGEON'S. Ingeedients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to tasto. ?'r?wsi«(7.—Pigeons, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes ofi ), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint; previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. Mode.—Wipe the birds very dry, seasonr them inside with pepper and salt, and put I oz. of butter into the body of each: this makes them moist. Put Ihem down to a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from 20 to 30 minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of pai-sley and butter. Bread sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceedingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sauce. ROAST PHEASANT. Ia'GREDIEKTS.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Choosing and Triissinsr.—Old pheasants may be known by the length and shni-pness of their spurs; in young ones they are short and blunt. The cock- bird is generally reckoned the best, except when the hen is with egg. They should hang S(>me time before they are dressed, as, if they ai-8 cooked fresh, the