XIX Observations on Servants, with regard to their Coming and Going. that such is her work. If the housemaid is to wait on the lady, it should be named, and so on through all the duties of each place. 108. And at the time of hiring, it is important to speciry the holidays, time allowed on Sundays, and the following particulars, so that a servant clearly understands what she is to expect, and enters upon her duties clearly under, standing the kind of situation she accepts. The wages should ba increased I yearly, and every encouragement given to good servants. 109. After warning has been given on either side, the mistress, even if annoyed with her maid, should behave with quiet courtesy towards her ; not, as we have Iremarked some mistresses do, treat her as if she had committed a crime. A change may be desirable for many reasons, although it is not possible to over- estimate a quiet, well-conducted servant, who is attached to her mistress, and who wUl not leave her even for fairer prospects and a more luxurious home. 110. In EsoAGiifG Servants state- Ill. The wages given now, and what i-ise may bo expected. 112. The time on Sunday allowed for church or chapel, &c. 113. Inquiries to be made of the lady who gives the character as to " honesty, sobriety, cleanliness, als> if she i& industrious, neat, tidy in person, and in work, regular and systematic." 114. If a Cook, ask particulars of soups, roasting and boiling, pastry-making, and general care and economy. 115. If a Norse, temper, kindness and watchful care, and experience. 116. If a Housemaid, care of stoves, ornaments, careful, and neat. 117. If a Lady's-maid, clever hairdresser and dressmaker, discreet and quiet; land so on through the various classes of servants required. 118. Nj^mber of years in place. 119. From whom taken. 120. Reason for leaving. 121. Any particular I'ault or peculiarity. 122. When the servant is engaged, the mistress should enter these particulars, together with the date of entry of service, amount of wages, &o., in a book kept for that purpose.