THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 1 ^27 Spinacli, to Boil BPINACH GARNISHED WITH CBOUTONS. stock, and thickening with rice, flour, and milk. Vermicelli should be served with it. Average cost, 5d. per quart. SPIWACH.to Boil (Englisli Mode), Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 oz. of pf butter, pepper to taste. Mode.—Pick the spinach carefully, and see that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it; wash it in several waters, and, to pre- vent it being gritty, act in the following manner:—Have ready two large pans or tubs iillod with water ; put the spinach into one of these, and thoroughly wash it; then, with the luinds, take out the spi- nach, and put it into the other tub of water (by this means all the grit will be left at the bottom of the tub) ; wash it again, and should it not be perfectly free from dirt, repeat the pro- cess. Put it into a very large saucepan, with about I pint of water, just sufficient to keep the spinach from burning, and the above proportion of salt. Press it down fre- quently with a wooden spoon, that it may be done equally; and when it has boiled for rather more than 10 minutes, or until it is perfectly tender, drain it in a colander, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it finely. Put the spinach into a clean stewpan, with the butter and a seasoning of pepper; stir the whole over the fire until quite hot; then put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spi- nach, 5 minutes to warm with the butter. Average cost tor the above quantity, 8c?, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable. —Spring spinach from March to July; winter sp.inach from November to March. Note.—Grated nutmeg, pounded mace, or lemon-juice may also be added to enrich the flavour; and poached eggs are also frequently served with spinach: they should be placed on the top of it, and it should bo garnished with sippets of toasted bread. SPINACH dressed with. Cream, b. la Francjaise. Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of b'ltter, 8 tablespoonfals of cream, 1 small toa- «poonful of poundeo^ sugar, a vor^ Uttle Spinach-Green grated nutmeg. Mode.—Boil and drain the spinach; chop it tine, and put it into a stewpan with the butter ; stir it over a gentle fire, and, when the butter has dried away, add the remaining ingre- dients, and simmer for about 5 minutes. Previously to pouring in the cream, boil it first, in case it should curdlo. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish either with sippets of toasted bread or leaves of puff- paste. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to stew with the cream. Average cost for the above quan- tity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July ; winter spinach from November to March. SPITsTACH, French Mode of Dress- ing. Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz, of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 8 tablespoonfuls of good gravy ; when liked, a vexy little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Pick, wash, and boil the spinach, and when tender, drain and squeeze it perfectly dry from the water that hangs about it. Chop it very fine, put the butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over that; stir it over a gentle fire, and dredge in the flour. Add the gravy, and let it boil quickly for a few minutes, that it may not discclour. When the flavoiu* of nut- meg is liked, grate some to the spinach, and when thoroughly hot, and the gravy has djied away a little, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to simmer in the gravy. Average cost for the above quan- tity, 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach from October to February. Note.—For an entremets or second- course diih, spinach dressed by the above recipe may be pressed into a hot mould ; it should then be turned out quicSly, and served immediately. SPIlSrACH-GREElSr, for Colouring various Dishes. Ingredients.—2 handfuls of spinach. Mode.—Pick and wash the spinach free from dirt, and pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice; then press it through a hair slave, and put the juica into a sniall stewpan or jar. Place tliia