THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 8S Crab Sauce crab, pick tlio meat out from the shells, and mix with it the nutmeg and season- ing. Cut up the butter in small pieces, and add the bread crumbs and vinegar. Mix altogether, put the whole in the largo shell, and brown before the fire or with a salamander. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, from 10(^. to 2s. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Seasonable all the year; but not so good in May, June, and July. EAB SAUCE, for Fish (equal to Lobster Sauce). Ingredients.— 1 crab; salt, pounded mace, and cayenne to taste; ^ pint of melted butter made with milk. Mode.— Choose a nice fresh crab, pick all the meat away from the shell, and out it into small square pieces. Make ^ pint of melted butter, put in the fish and sea- soning ; let it gradually warm through, and simmer for 2 minutes: it should not boil. Average cost, Is. 2d. CBAYFISH. Crayfish should be thrown into boiling water, to which has been added a good seasoning of salt and a little vinegar. When done, which will be in ^ hour, take them out and drain them. Let them cool, arrange them ou a napkin, and garnish with plenty of double par- sley. JYote.—This fish is frequently used for garnishing boiled turkey, boiled fowl, calf's head, turbot, and all lands of boiled fish. CBAYFISH, Potted. Ingredients. —100 crayfish ; pounded mace, pepper, and salt to taste; 2 oz. butter. Mode.—Boil the fish in salt and watei', pick out all the meat, and pound it in a mortar to a paste. Whilst pound- ing, add the butter gradually, and mix in the spice and seasoning. Put it in small iDots, and pour over it clarified butter, carefully excluding the air. Time, —15 minutes to boil the crayfish. Avei-- age cost, 2s. 9d. Seasonable all the year. CBAYFISH SOUP. Ingredients.—CO ci-ayfish, lb. of but- ter, t) anchovies, the crumb of 1 French roll, a little lobster-spawn, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock, or fish stock. Mode. — Shell the crayfish, and put the fish between two plates until they Cream, Devonshire are wanted ; pound the shells in a mor- tar with the butter and anchuvies ; when well beaten, add a pint of sUjck, and sinimerfor ^of an hour. Strain it through a hair sieve, put the remainder of the stock to it, with the crumb of the roU; give it one boil, and rub it through a tammy, with the lobster-spawn. Put in the fish, but do not let the soup boil after it has been rubbed through the tammy. If necessary, add seasoning. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost, 2s. dd. or Is. 9d. per quart. Sufficient for 8 perBona, Seasonable from January to July. CBEAM h. la VALOIS. Ingredients. — 4 sj^onge cakes, jam, f pint of cream, sugar to taste, the juice of ^ lemon, ^ glass of sherry, 1| oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Cut the sponge-cakes into thin slices, place two together with presei-ve between them, and pour over them a small quantity of sherry mixed with a little -brandy. Sweeten and fla- vour the cream with the lemon-juice and sherry; add the isinglass, which should be dissolved in a little water, and beat up the cream well. Place a little in an oiled mould ; airange the pieces of cake in the cream, then fiU the mould with the remainder, let it cool, and turn it out on a dish. By oihng the mould the cream will have a much smoother appear- ance, and will turn out more easily than when merely dipped in cold water. Aver- age cost, 3s. Qd. Sufficient to fill a 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any time. CHE AM CHEESE. Cream cheese should be served on a d'oyley, and garnished either with water- cresses or parsley ; of the former, a plen- tiful supply should be given, as they add greatly to the appearance of the dish, besides imi^roving the flavour of the cheese. CKEAM, Devonshire. The milk should stand 24 hours in tho wintet, half that time when the weather is very warm. The milkpan is then set on a stove, and should there remain until the milk is quite hot; but it must not boil, or there will bo a thick skin on the surface. When it is sufficiently done the und» lations on the surface look thick, and 6ma.ll rings appear. The time re- quired for scalding cream dnpends on