THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 365 Vermicelli Soup ing; 2 oz. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode. — Put tlio stock, bacon, butter, and fowl, into tho stow- pan, and stew for of an hour. Take tho vermicelli, add it to a lictio of tho stock, and set it on tho fire, till it is quite tender. When tho soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible; pour it, with the ver- micelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in the soup, and serve. I'ime. —2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl and bacon, lOrf. per quai't. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. VERMICELLI SOUP. Ingredients. — \ lb. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of clear gravy stock. Mode.— Put the vermicelli in tho soup, boiling ; simmer very gently for § an hour, and stir frequently. Time."— ^ an hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. per quart. Season- able all the yeai". Sufficient for 8 persons. VOL-AU-VENT (an Entree). Ingredients.—^ to 1 lb. of pufF-paste, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragotlts, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. Mode.— Make from f to 1 lb. of puff-paste, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to ensure its rising pro- perly ; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au- vent will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about 1^ inch, and, with a fluted stamp to the shape. cutter, it out desired either ' round or oval, and, with the vci-AU-vBifT. point of a small knife, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from tho edge, which, when baked, forms tho lid. Put the vol-au-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should bo paid to the heating of the oven, for the pksto cannot rise without a tolerable degree of heat, "When of a Vol-au-Vent of Fresh Strawberries nice colour, without being scorched, withdraw it from the ovc-n, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre : in doing this, be careful not to break the edges of the vol-axi-vent; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of an egg. This precaution is necessary to prevent the fricassee or ragoilt from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-au-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragotit, or the remains of cold fish flaked and warmed in a good white saiice, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gravy bursting the crust: replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properly. Time.—5 hour to bake the vol-au-vent. Average cost, exclusive of the interior, I5. Qd. Seasonable at any time. _ Note. —Small vol-au-vents may bo made like those shown in the en graving, and filled with minced veal, chicken, &c. They should be made of the same paste as the larger ones, and stamped out with a smaU fluted cutter. VOL-AU-VENT OF FRESH V STRAWBERRIES, WITH WHIPPED CREAM. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of pufF-paste, 1 pint of freshly-gathered strawberries, sugar to taste, a plateful of whipped cream. Mode.—Make a vol-au-vent case, only not quite so large nor so high as for , a savoury one. When nearly done, ' brush the paste over with the white of an egg, then sprinkle on it some pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze. Remove the interior, or soft crumb, and, at the moment of serving, fill it with the strawberries, which should be picked, and broken up with sufficient sugar to sweeten them nicely. Place a few spoonfuls of whipped cream on the top and servo. Time.—h hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-aic-vent. Ave- rage cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for 1 voZ-att« vent. Seasonable in Ju^a and July. SMALL VOL-Ar-VENIS.