THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Plums, French PLUMS, French, Stewed (a Des- sert dish). Ingredients.—\h lb. of French plums, f pint of syrup, 1 glass of port wino, the rind and juico of 1 lemon. Mode.—Stow the plums gently in water for 1 hour; strain the water, and with it make the syrup. _When it is clear, put in the plums with the port wine, lemon-juice, and rind, and simmer very gently for 1^ hour. Arrange the plums on a glass dish, take out the lemon-rind, pour the syrup over the plums, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. A little allspice stewed with the fruit is by many persons considered an improvement. Time.—1 hour to stew the plums in water, 1^ hour in the syrup. Average cost, plums sufficiently good for stewing. Is. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. PLtTMS (Preserved). Ingredients.— To every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar; for the thin syrup, \ lb. of sugar to each ^nt of water. Mode.—Select large ripe plums; slightly prick them, to prevent them from bursting, and simmer them very gently in a syrup made with the above proportion of sugar and water. Put them carefully into a pan, let the syrup cool, pour it over the plums, and allotv them to remain for two days. Having previously weighed the other sugar, [dip the lumps quickly into water, and put them into a preserving-pan with no more water than hangs about them ; and boil the sugar to a syrup, carefully skimming it. Drain the plums from the first syrup ; put them into the fresh syrup, and sim- mer them very gently until they are clear; lift them out singly into pots, pour the synip over, and, when cold, cover down to exclude the air. This preserve will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place, and makes a very nice addition to a dessert. The magnum-bonum plums answer for this preserve better than any other kind of plum. Greengages are also very delicious done in this manner. Time.— i hour to 20 minutes to simmer the plums in the first syrup ; 20 minutes to J hour very gentle simmering in the second. Seasonable from August to October, Pork PLUMS, to Preserve Dry. Ingredients.— To every lb. of sugai allow \ pint of water. Mode.—Gatho the plums when they are fuU grown anc just turning colour; prick them, pu' them into a saucepan of cold water, anc set them on the lire until the water is oi the point of boiling. Then take then out, drain them, and boil them gentl; in syrup made with the above proportioi of sugar and water; and if the plum shrink, and will not take the sugar prick them as they lie in the pan ; giv them another boil, skim, and set then by. The next day add some mor sugar, boiled almost to candy, to th fruit and syrup ; put all together into wide-mouthed jar, and place them in cool oven for 2 nights; then drain th plums from the syrap, sprinkle a littl powdered sugar over, and dry them in cool oven. Time.—15 to 20 minutes t boil the plums in the syrup. Seasonab- from August to October. PORK. In the country, where, for ordin consumption, the pork killed for sale usually both larger and fatter than tht; supplied to the London consumer, it: customary to remove the skin and ft: down to the lean, and, salting that, roa what remains of the joint. Pork go- further, and is consequently a mo economical food, than other meats, simp because the texture is closer, and the is less waste in the cooking, either roasting or boiling. In fresh pork, the leg is the mo economical family joint, and the loin t richest. Pork, to be preserved, is cured _ several ways,—either by covering it wi salt, or immersing it in ready-made brir where it is kept till required ; or it only partially salted, and then hung • to dry, when the moat is called whi bacon ; or, after salting, it is hung wood smoke till the flesh is impregnat with the aroma from the wood. T WOtshire bacon, which is regarded the finest in the kingdom, is prejiar by laj'ing the sides of a hog in lar wooden troughs, and then rubbing it the ilesh quantities of powdered bf salt, made hot in a frying-pan. T process is repeated for four days; tli are then left for three weeks, men