THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 112 Egg3 qualities of tlioso bolonginp to difforent birds vary eomewliat. Those of the common hen are most esteemed as de- licate food, particularly when "new- laid." The quality of eggs depends much upon the food given to the hen. Eggs in general are considered most easily digestible when little subjected to the art of cookery. The lightest way J of dressing them is by poaching, which , is effected by putting them for a minute • or two into brisk boiling water : this coa- gulates the external white, without doing the inner part too much. Eggs are much better when new-laid than a day or two afterwards. The usual time allotted for boiling eggs in the shell is 3 to 3^ mi- nutes : less time than that in boiling water will not be sufficient to solidify the white, and more will make the yolk hard and less digestible: it is very difficult to guess accurately as to the time. Great care should be employed in putting them into th« water, to prevent cracking the shell, which inevitably causes a portion of the white to exude, and lets water into the egg. For the purpose of placing eggs in water, always choose a large spoon in preference to a small one. Eggs are often beaten up raw in nutritive beverages. The eggs of the turkey are almost as mild as those of the hen ; the egg of the goose is large, but well-tasted. Ducks' eggs have a rich flavour; the albumen is slightly transparent, or bluish, when set or coagulated by boiling, which requires less time than hens' eggs. Guinea-fowl eggs are smaller and more delicate than those of the hen. Eggs of loild fowl are generally coloured, often spotted ; and the taste generally partakes somewhat of the bird they loelong to. Those of land birds that are eaten, as the i^lover, lapioing, ruff, &c., are in general much ^ esteemed; but those of sea-fowl have, more or less, a strong fishy taste. The eggs of the hirtle are very numerous : they consist of yolk only, without shell, and are delicious. When fresh eggs are dropped into a vessel full of boiling water, they crack, because the eggs being well filled, the shells give way to the efforts of the in- terior fluids, dilated by heat. If the volume of hot water be small, the shells «3o not crack, because its temperature is reduced by tho eggs before the interior dilation can take place. Stale e^rgs, again, do not crack' because the air inside is easily compressed. Egg Wine EGG BALLS, for Soups and madee Dishes. Ingredients.—8 eggs, a little flour seasoning to taste of salt. Mo'le.—Boi 6 eggs for 20 minutes, strip off the shells." take the yolks and poimd them in ^^ mortar. Beat tho yolks of the 2 uncooked eggs ; add them, with a little flour am salt, to those pounded ; mix all well to gether, and roll into balls. Boil then. before they are put into the soup or othei ■ dish they may be intended for. EGG SAUCE, for Salt Fish. Ingredients.—4 eggs, J pint of melttdi butter, when liked, a very little lemon-, juice. Mode.—Boil the eggs until quite* hard, which will be in about 20 minutes,- and put them into cold water for .4 hour/ Scrip off the shells, chop the eggs into: small pieces, not, however, too fine. Make the melted butter very smooth,:, and, when boiling, stir in the eggs, andi serve very hot. Lemon-juice may bee added at pleasure. Time.—20 minutes to boil the eggs. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient.—This quantity for 3 or 4 lbs. of fish. Note.—When a thicker, sauce is re- quired, use one or two more eggs to the* same quantity of melted butter. EGG SOUP. ■ Ingredients.—A tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, 2 small blades of finely-pounded mace, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Beat up the flour smoothly in a teaspoonful oft cold stock, and put in the eggs; thrown them into boiling stock, stirring all thes time. Simmer for ^ of an hour. Season and serve with a French roll in the tureen or fried sippets of bread. Time.—h an hour. A verage cost, lid. per quart. Sea- souahte all the year. SvfficieJit for 8: persons. EGG WINE. IngredienL<!.—1 egg, 1 tablespoonful and h glass of cold water, 1 glass of sherry, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of cold water; make the wine-and-water hot, but not; boilhig ; pour it on the o<ig, stirring all the time. Add sufficient lump sugar to ■ sweeten the mixture, and a little grated! nutmeg ; put all into a very clean sauce- • pan, set it on a gentle tire, and stir the»