xliy Philosophy of Housekeeping. 276. Washing should be done in the forenoon ; but supposing that one bedroom is scoured every week, the servant should never attempt washing on the same day. 277. Sweeping the stairs should be done on one of the bedroom cleaning days, but not on the bedroom scouring day. 278. Cleaning the doorsteps should be daily work. They should be done in the morning before breakfast, if possible ; if not, immediately after the bedrooms are done up, and before putting on the luncheon. 279. In all washing up, scouring, &c., the servant should never grudge herself plenty of clean water and clean cloths; it saves trouble in the end, for it is impossible to make things look clean with dirty cloths and water. 280. ROUTINE OF HOUSE-WOBK FOR TWO SERVANTS. Where two servants, housemaid and cook, are kept, 281. To get through the work in a regular and orderly manner, such as will give satisfaction to the mistress, it is necessary that the cook and housemaid should divide it judiciously between them, certain duties being taken entirely by the one, and certain other duties by the other; so that when anything is to be done, it may always be definitely understood who is to do it. 282. To show how it may best be divided, the following outline of one day's work in a house assigns to each servant the share of the duties that it is usually most convenient she should take. 283. They should both rise at six o'clock. On coming downstairs the cook should go to the kitchen and lower offices ; the housemaid to the sitting-rooms, to open all the shutters, and if the weather be fine, the windows of the various apartments. 281. She then— ARRANGES THE BREAKPAST-ROOM, , And gets it ready for the family ; for this she brings upstairs a carpet-broom, dustpan, and some damp tea-leaves. 285. She should then first remove the fender and fire-irons, and roll up and remove the rug; take off the tablecloth, shake and fold it; also shako and fold any antimacassars that may bo in the room, and place all together on th* table, which she should cover with a dusting-sheet. She should also cover the sofa, if there bo one in the room, ar.d the easy chair, and place the other chairs on«