THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEIf?. 18G Lobster Curry return ; whon the flsh might bo pro- nouncoii interior, whicii, in reality, may not bo the case. In order to bo good, lolif?ter3 should be wei^cbty for their bulk ; if lii^ht, they will be watery ; and those of the medium size, are always the best. Small-sized lobsters are cheapest, and answer very well for sauce. In boil- ius lobsters, the appearance of the shell will be much improved by rubbing over it a little butter or salad-oil on being immediately taken from the pot. LOBSTER CURRY (an Entree). Ingredients.—1 lobster, 2 onions, 1 oz, butter, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, J pint of medium stock, the juice of | lemon. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut into nice square pieces; fry the onions of a pale brown in the butter, stir in the curry-powder and stock, and simmer till it thickens, when put in the lobster ; stew the whole slowly for h hour, stirring occasionally; and just before sending to table, put in the lemon -juice. Serve boiled rice with it, the same as for other curries. Time.— Altogether,- ^ hour. Average cost, Zs. Seasonahte at any time. LOBSTER CUTLETS (an Entree). Ingredient's.—1 large hen lobster, 1 oz. fresh butter, h saltspoonful of salt, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, cayenne and white pepper to taste, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and pound it in a mortar with the butter, and gradually add the mace and seasoning, well mixing the ingredients ; beat all to a smooth paste, and add a little of the spawn ; divide the mixture into pieces of an equal size, and shape them like cutlets. They should not be very thick. Brush them over vnth egg, and spi inkle with bread crumbs, and stick a short piece of the small claw in the top of each ; fry them of a nice brown in boiling lard, and drain them before the fire, on a sieve reversed; arrange them nicely on a dish, and pour bechamel in the middle, but not over the cutlets. Time.—About 8 minutes after the cutlets are made. Average cost for this di.sh, 2s. M. &easoiuMe sxll thoyeai'. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. LOBSTERS, to Dress. When the lobster is boiled, rub it over with a little salud-oil, which wipe off Lobster, Po'ted again ; separate the body from the lai break off the great claws, and crack thei at the joints, witliout injuring the jneattj split the tail in halves, and arrange a! neatly in a dish, with the body uprigh in the middle, and garnish with parsley LOBSTER, Hot. Ingredients.—1 lobster, 2oz. of butter \ gratednutmeg; salt, pepper, and poundei j mace, to taste ; bread crumbs, 2 eggs \ Mode.—Pound the meat of the lobstert' , a smooth paste with the butter and sea Eoning, and add a few bread crura Beat the eggs, and make the whole ture into the form of a lobster; poui the spawn, and sprinkle over it. Ba! I hour, and just before serving, lay ovc it the tail and body shell, with the sruul claws underneath, to resemble a lobsi Time.—\ hour. Average cost, 2s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for j or 5 persons. LOBSTER PATTIES (an Entree) Ingredients.—Minced lobster, 4 tan!o spoonfuls of bechamel, 6 drf)psofancl.''iv> sauce, 'lemon-juice, cavenne to tast . Mode.—Line the patiy-jjans with l u!;'- paste, and put into each a small piece i f bread ; cover with paste, brush over wj ' egg, and bake of a light colour. Tii as much lobster as is required, u)ince meat very fine, and add the above in; dients ; .'^tir it over thu fire for 5 minut remove the lids of the patty-c-asts, out the bread, fill with the mixture, replace the covers. Seasonable at time. LOBSTER, Potted. Ingredients.—2 lobsters ; seasoning taste, of nutmeg, pounded uiace, wl* pepper, and salt ; \ lb. of butter, 3 i bay-leaves. Moile.—Take out the iu8 cai efully from the shell, but do not cut it up. Put some butter at the bottom of i a dish, lay in the lobster as evenly as ' possible, with the bay-haves and so:i«iiti- ) ing between. Cover with butt; bake for J hour in a gentle oven. done, drain the whole on a sieve, ami ♦ lay the pieces in potting-jars, willi the • seasoning about them. Whence; ^ over it clarified butter, and, it ^ ^ y highly seasoned, it will keep some tir^e. Time.—^ hour. Average co.<!f for quantity, it. 4d Seasonable at time.