THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 93 Currant Jam, Eed the whito of an egg: this, when cold, forms a hard stiff cover, and perfectly excludes the air. Great attention must be paid to the stirring of this jam, as it is vciy liablo to burn, on account of the thickness of the juice. Time.—10 mi- nutes to boil the fruit and water ; 30 minutes with the sugar, or longer. A verarje cost, from 6d. to 8d. for a pot capable of holding lib. Sufficient.— Allow from 6 to 7 quarts of currants to make 1 dozen pots of jam, each pot to hold 1 lb. SeasonoMe.—lA.!\kQ this in July. IcUBEAITT JAM, Hed. Inrjralicnts.—To every lb. of fruit al- low ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Let the bruit bo gathered on a fine day ; weigh it, and then strip the currants from the stalks; put them into a preserving-pan kith sugar in the above proportion ; stir them, and boil them JAM JAM-POT. for* about f hour. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Put the jam into pots, and, when cold, cover with oiled papers ; over these put a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on loth sides with the whito of an egg; |ress the paper round tho top of the pot, id, when dry, the covering will bo quite ird and air-tight. Time.—^ to ^ hour, ^ckoning from the time the jam boils all s-er. Averofje cost, for a lb. pot, from to ?>d. Svfficienl.—Allow from 6 to 7 Liarts of currants to make 12 1-lb. pots jam. Seasonable.—Make this in July. UBBANT JELLY, Black. 7K^re-:?i'cni5.—Blackcurrants; to every nt of juice allow { pint of water, 1 lb loaf sugar. Mode.—Strip the currants )m the stalks, which may be done in expeditious manner, by holding the nch in one hand, and passing a small vcr fork down the currants : they will n readily fall from the stalks. Put m into a jar, place this jar in a sauce- D of boiling water, and simmer them til their juice is extracted; then strain m, and to every pint of juice allow above proportion of sugar and water; these ingredients together cold until s'ugai is dissolved; place the pre- Ctirrant Jelly, Bed serving-pan on the fire, and boil the jelly for about ^ hour, reckoning from the time it commences to boil all oyer, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. If the jelly becomes firm when a little is put on a plate, it is done ; it should then be put into small pots, and covered the same as the jam in the preceding recipe. If the jelly is wanted very clear, the fruit should not be squeezed dry; but, of coiu'se, so much juice wiU not be ob- tained. If the fruit is not much squeezed, it may be converted into a jam for im- mediate eating, by boiling it with a littlo common sugar: this answers very well for a nursery preserve. Time.—About ^ hour to extract the juice ; ^ hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from 8d. to IQd. per h-lh. pot. ' Sitfficieiit.—From 3 pints to 2"quarts of fruit should yield a pint iuice. Seasonable.—Make this in July. CUBBANT JELLY, Bed. Ingredients.—Eed currants ; to every pint of juice allow f lb. of loaf sugar, ./l/ocie.—Have the fruit gathered in fine weather; pick it from the stalks, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it sim- mer gently until the juice is well drawn from the currants; then strain them through a jelly-bag or fine cloth, and if the jelly is wished very clear, do not squeeze them too much, as the skin and pulp from the fruit will be pressed through with tho juice, and so make the jelly muddy. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow ^ lb of loaf sugar ; put these into a preserving-pan, set it over the fire, and keep stirring the jelly until it is done, carefully removing every particle of scum as it rises, using a wooden or silver spoon for the purpose, as metal or iron ones would spoil the colour of tho jelly. When it has boiled from 20 minutes to ^ hour, put a little of the jelly on a plate, and if firm when cool, it is done. Take it off the fire, pour it into smaU gallipots, cover each of the pots with an oiled paper, and then wit<h a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Labol the pots, adding the year when tho jelly was made, and store it away in a dry place. A jam mr.y be madg with the currants, if they are not squeczcil too dry, by adding a few fresh raspberries, and boiling all together, with sufiicient sugar