218 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. October-Bills of Fare Second Course, Eoast Sadillo of Mutton. o Grouse Pie. a . 03 O g Vase of Q o Flowera. a n3 "J o m <-* CD Ham. SO Larded Turkey. Dinner for 12 persons. i^mi Course.—Carrot soup kla Cr&i; soup ^ la Reiue ; bakerl cod ; stewed eels. Entrees. — Kiss de Veau and tomato sauce; vol-au-vent of chicken; pork cutlets and sauce Robert; grilled mush- rooms. Second Course.—Rump of beef k la jardiniere ; roast goose ; boiled fowls ari'l celery sauce ; tunguo, garnished ; vegetables. Third Course. — Grouse ; pheasants; quince jellj'; lemon cream; apple tart; compOto of pouches; Nes- selrode pu<lding ; cabinet pudding; scal- loped oysters ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persona. First Course. — Calf's - head soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce ; stowed eels. ErdrSes.—Stewed mutton Iddiicys; curried sweetbreads. Second Course.— Boiled leg of mutton, garnished with carrots and turnips ; roast goose. Third Co«w.—Partridges ; fruit jelly ; Italian cream ; vol-au-vent of pears ; apjjle tart; cabinet pivdding; deeaert and ices. October—Bills of Fare Dinners for 6 persons. First Course. — Hare soup ; broiled cod k la Maitre d'llOtel. Haddocks and egg sauce. Entrees.—Veal cutletw, gar- nished with Frtnch beans; haricot mutton. Second C'o2<)-«e.—Roast haunch of mutton ; boiled capon and rice ; vege- tables. Third Course. — Pheasants ; punch jelly ; blancmange ; apples k la Portugaise; Charlotte k la Vanille; mar- row pudding; dessert. First Course.—Mock-turtle soup ; brill and lobster sauce ; fried whitings. En- tries.—Fowl k la Bdchamel; oyster pat- ties. Second Course. —Roast sucking-pig ; stewed rump of beef k la jardiuifere; vegetables. Third Course. — Grouse ; Charlotte aux porames; cofiFee cream; cheesecakes; apricot tart; iced pudding; dessert. OCTOBER, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Roast sucking-pig, tomato sauce and brain sauce ; small boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, turnij>s, aud carrots. 2. Damson tart, boiled batter pudding. Motiday.—1. Vegetable soup, mado from liquor that mutton was boiled in, 2. Sucking-pig en blamjuctte, small meat pie, French beans, and potatoes. 3. Pudding, pies. Tuesday. — 1. Roast partridges, bread sauce, and gravy; slices of mutton warmed in caper sauce; vegetables. 2. Baked plum-pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, vegetable marrow, and potatoes. 2. Damson pudding. Thursday.—1. Fried soles, melted butter. 2. Cold beef and salad ; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Carrot soup. 2. Bv>iled fowls and celery sauce; bacon-cheek, garnished with greens; beef rissoles, from remains of cold beef. 3. Bai-oness pudding. Saturday.—1. Curried fowl, from re- mains of cold ditto; dish of rice, i-ump- Btcak-and-kidnoy pudding, vegetables. 2. Stewed pears and sponge cakes. Sunday.—1. Crimped cod and oyster sauce. 2. Roast haunch of mutton, brown onion sauce, and vegetables. 3. BuUace pudding, baked custards in cups. Third Course. O Pheasanta, remoied by g ^ Cabinet Pudding. g _ Italian Cream. •tJS ° . B S" Vase of .-g a It* B § Flowera. £-2 a- a Qj ^; S- • o Peach Jelly. O § gJ Boast Hare, o removed by g- P" Iced Pudding. <^ iJessert and Icea.