THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 103 Marcjh—Bills of Pare kiecond Course. 3 ^ re 3 Fore-quarter of Lamb. Eraisod Capou. Vase of Plowera. Eoast Fowls. Bump of Beef i la Jardiuierc. 1 Third Course. Guinea-Fowls, larded, removed by Cabinet Pudding. Wioo Jelly. Yaso of Flowera. Italian Cream, « 4^ p 93 Ph Ducklings, removed by ^ Nesselrode Pudding. § S Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. i^iViJ Course. — White soup ; clear gravy soup ; boiled salmon, shrimp sauce, and dressed cucumber; baked mullets in paper cases. Entrees.—Filet de boeuf and Spanish sauce ; larded sweetbreads ; rissoles ; chicken patties. Second Course. —Roast fillet of veal and Bechamel sauce ; boiled leg of lamb; roast fowls, garnished with water-cresses; boiled ham, garnished with carrots and mashed turnips; vegetables—sea kale, spinach, or brocoli. Third Course.—Two duck- lings ; guinea-fowl, larded; oi-ango jelly; Charlotte Russo ; coffee cream ; ice pudding; macaroni with Parmesan cheese; spinach, garnished with crofl- tous; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Macaroni soup; boiled turbot and lobster sauce ; salmon cutlets. Entrees.—CompOto of pigeons; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. Second Course. — Roast lamb; boiled half calfs head, tongue, and brains ; boiled bacon-cheek, garnislied with spoonsfuls of spinach; vegetables. Third Courjc—Ducklings ; March—Bills of Faro an plum-pudding; ginger cream ; trifl|j4B rhubarb tart; cheesecakes; fondueaT ^ cases; dessert and ices. i If- Dinner for 8 persons. i''tV.?< CoMi-M.—Calfs-head soup; bri and shrimp sauce ; broiled mackerel ai Maitro d'Htitel. Ent.re'cs.—Luh^tcr ^.^ lets; calf's liver and bacon, aux herbes. Second Course—Roast loin i veal; two boiled fowls h la L&baroel boiled knuckle of ham ; vegetable - spinach or brocoli. Third Course.—\iH ducks; apple custards ; blancmai lemon jelly ; jam sandwiches ; ice ding ; jjotatoes h la Maltre d'Hdtel; sert and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Vermicelli soup; h la Cr6me. Entries.—Veal cutl small vols au-vent. Second Cour Small saddle of mutton ; half calfs 1 boiled bacon-cheek, garnished with sels sprouts. Third Course.—Cat- pudding; orange jelly; custards, glasses; rhubarb tart; lobster sa" dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup; bs mullets. Entrees. — Chicken cutlc oyster patties. Second Course.— lamb and mint sauce ; boiled leg of | pease pudding; vegetables. Course. —Ducklings; Swiss cream; lei jelly; cheesecakes; rhubarb tait; maa roni; dessert. If- m First Course. — Oyster soup ; boils salmon and dressed cucumber. Enlret —Rissoles ; fricasseed chicken. Seco* Course.—Boiled leg of mutton, cap< sauce ; roast fowls, garnished with wate cresses; vegetables. Third Course.- Charlotte aux pommes; orange jellj lemon cream ; soufS6 of arrowroot; e« kale; dessert. First Course. — Ox-tatl soup; 1-uiW mackerel. hhitrics. — Stewed kidnej'S; minced veal and > Second Course.—Stewed shoulder oi ve» roast ribs of beef and horseradish vegetables. Third CoursC'-Dach tartlets of strawberi^ jam ; chccsei Gateau do Riz ; carrot pudding; kale : dessert.