THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 222 Onion Soup, Cheap ONION SOUP, Cheap. Ingredients.—8 mid(lling-sizod onions, 3 oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of rice- flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 toa- Bpoonful of powdered sugar, thickening of butter and flour, 2 quarts of water. Uode.—Cut the onions small, put them into the stewpan with the butter, and fiy them well; mix the rico-flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, seasoning, and sugar, and simmer till tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, id. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sv^cient for 8 persons. ONIONS, Bxirnt, for Gravies. Ingredients.—| lb. of onions, h pint of water, h lb. of moist sugar, J^'piut of vinegar." Mock.—Peel and chop the onions tine, and put them into a stewpan (not tinned), with the water; let them boil for 5 minutes, then add the sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture becomes nearly black and throws out bubbles of smoke. Have ready the above proportion of boiling vinegar, strain the liquor gradually to 't, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon until it is well incorporated. When cold, bottle for use. Time.—Altogether^ 1 hour, ONIONS, Pickled (a very simple Method, and exceedingly Good). Ivgredients.—Pickling onions ; toe,ach quart of vinegar, 2 teaspoonfuls of all- spice, 2 teaspoonfuls of whole black pepper. Mode.—Have the onions gathered when quite dry and ripe, and, with the fingers, take off the thin outside skin; then, with a silver knife (steel should not be used, as it spoils the colour of the onions), remove one more skill, when the onion will look quite clear. Have ready some very dry bottles or jars, and as fast as they are peeled, put them in. Pour over sufficient cold vinegar to cover them, with pepper and allspice in the above proportions, taking care that each jar has its share of the latter ingredients. Tie down with blad- der, and put them in a dry place, and in a fortnight they will be flt for use. This is a most simple recipe and very deli- cious, the onions being nice and crisp. They should be oaten within 6 or 8 months aftor being done, as the onions are liable to becomo soft. Seasonable Onions, Pickled from the middle of July to tLe end of August. ONIONS, Pickled. Ingredients.— 1 gallon of pickling onions, salt and water, milk; to each J gallon of vinegar, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, } tablespoonful of cayenne, 1 oz. of all- spice, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, i oz. of whole nutmeg bruised, 8 cluves, | oz. of mace. Mode.—Gather the onions, v^hich should not be too small, when they are quite dry and ripe; wipe off the dirt, but do not pare them; make a strong solution of salt and water, into which put the onions, and change this, morning and night, for 3 days, and save the last brine they were put in. Then take the outside skin oft", and put them into a tin sauce- pan capable of holding them all, as they are always better done together. Now take equal quantities of milk and the last salt and water the onions were in, and pour this to them ; to this add 2 large spoonfuls of salt, put them over the fire, and watch them very attentively. Keep constantly turning the onions about with a wooden skimmer, those at the bottom to the top, and vice vertd; and let the milk and water run through the holes of the skimmer. Eemember, the onions must never boil, or, if they do, they will be good for nothing; and they should be quite transparent. Keep the onions stirred for a few minutes, and, in stirring them, be particular not to break them. Then have ready a pan with a colander, into which turn the onions to drain, covering them with a cloth to keep in tbn steam. Place on a table an old cloth. - or 3 times double ; put the onions on it when quite hot, and over them an old piero of blanket; cover this closely over tlie:n, to keep in the steam. Let them reniaiu till the next day, whenthej' will be quito cold, and look yellow and shrivelled ; take oflF the shrivelled skins, when they sbould be as white as snow. Put them into a pan, make a pickle of vinegar and the remain- ing ingredients, boil all these up, and pour hot over the onions in the pan. Cover very closely to keep in all the steam, and let them stand till the follow- ing day, when they will bo quito cold. Put them into jars or bottles well bun>;cd, and a tablespoonful of the best olive-oil on the top of each jar or bottle. Tie them down with bladder, and let them stand iu a cool place for a mouth or six