THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 23 Beef h la Mode process be very gradual, as the water must only simmer, or the meat will be hard and tough. Carefully remove the Bcum from the surface of the water, and AITCH-BONB OF BBEF. continue doing this for a few minutes after it first boils. Carrots and turnips are served with this dish, and sometimes suet dumplings, which may be boiled with the beef. Garnish with a few of the carrots and turnips, and serve the remainder in a vegetable-dish. Time.— An aitch-bone of 10 lbs., 2i hours after the water boils ; one of 20 lbs., 4 hom-s. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient.— 10 lbs. for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, but best from September to March, Note.—The liquor in which the meat has been boiled may be easily converted into a very excellent pea-soup. It will require very few vegetables, as it will bo impregnated with the flavour of those boiled with the meat. BEEP A LA MODE. Ingredients.—6 or 7 lbs. of the thick flank of beef, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 teacupful of vinegar, black pepper, allspice, 2 cloves well mixed and finely pounded, making altogether 1 heaped teaspoonful; salt to taste, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, all finely minced and well mixed; 3 onions, 2 largo carrots, 1 turnip, 1 head of celery, 1^ pint of water, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Slice and fry the onions of a palo brown, and cut up the other vegetables in small pieces, and prepare the beef for stewing in tho fol- lowing manner:—Choose a fine piece of beef, cut the bacon into long slices, about an inch in thickness, dip them into vinegar, and then into a little of tho above seasoning of spice, &c., mixed with the same quantity of minced herbs. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to lot in tho bacon; then rub the beof over with tho remainder of the Beef, Baked seasoning and herbs, and bind it ■ ' a nice shape with tape. Have r' well-tinned stew-pan (it should j much larger than the piece of mi; are cooking), into which put th' with tho vegetables, vinegar, and Let it simmer very gentii) for 5 hi- rather longer, should the meat i extremely tender, and turn it oucegia twice. When ready to serve, takeoRl the beef, remove the tape, and put it c a hot dish. Skim off every particle ' fat from the gravy, add the port wirj just let it boil, pour it over the beef, ai. it is ready to serve. Great care must i taken that this does not boil fast, or tl. meat will be tough and tasteless ; ; should only just bubble. When cor venient, all kinds of stews, &c. shoul be cooked on a hot plate, as tho procf-s is so much more gradual than on a open fire. Tivie. — 5 hours, or rathe more. Average cost, Id. per lb. Svj cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle & the year, but more suitable for a wintt dish. BEEP A LA MODE (Economii Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of clod sticking of beef, 2 oz. of clarified ping, 1 large onion, flour, 2 qun''- i water, 12 berries of allspice, 2 bay- ^ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, to taste. Mode. —Cut the beef into '' pieces, and roll them in flour; put dripping into a stewpan with the onio! which should be sliced thin. Let ' quite hot; lay in the pieces of bee:, stir them well about, ^^'^len nice browned all over, add by degrees boilit water in the above proportion, and, ! the water is added, keep the whole w stirred. Put in the spice, bay-l and seasoning, cover the stewpan civ - . and set it by the side of the tire to very gently, till the meat becomes q1 tender, which will bo in about 3 hi when it will bo ready to serve. Kei the bay-leaves before it is sent to Time.—^ hours. Avemge cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 persons. Scaso7iabIt any time. BEEP, Baked. [Cold JIeat Cookert. 1.] Ingredft^ About 2 Ihs. of cold roast heef, 2 sn- onions, 1 large carrot or 2 small ' 1 turnip, a small bunch of savo" herbs, salt and pepper to taste, qiu