227 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Oranges, Compote of will be fit for use in a twelvemonth after the time cf making. Ginger wine may- be made in precisely the same manner, only, with ine Q-gallon cask for ginger wine, 2 lbs. of the best whole ginger, hndsed, must be put with the sugar. It will be found convenient to tie the gin- ger loosely in a muslin bag. Time.— Altogether, 10 days to make it. Average cost, 2s. 6d. per gallon. Sufficient for 9 gallons. Seasonable.—Make this in March, and bottle it in the following January. OBANGES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 6 oranges. Mode.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into small pieces without beeaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the symp by recipe, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well skimmed, and is quite clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them cut carefuUy with a spoon without COUPOTB OF 0BAN6ES. breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Keduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick ; let it cool a little, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. Tivie. —10 minutes to boil the syrup; 5 minutes to simmer the oranges; 5 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonalle fi-om November to May. OBAWGES, a Pretty Dish of. Ingredients.—6 large oranges, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, i pint of water, h pint of cream, 2 teblespoonfuls of any kind of liquor, sugar to taste. Mode.—Vxxt the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brit- tle, which may bo ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dip- ping it in cold water; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices, without breaking the thin whito skiu which surrounds Oranges, Preserved the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hob sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad-oil. The sides of the mould only should bo lined with the oranges, and the centra left open for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling; turn the oranges cai-efully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liqueur, and sweetened with pounded sugar. This is an exceed- ingly ornamental and nice dish for the supper-table. Tivie.—10 minutes to boil the sugar. Average cost. Is. &d.—Suffix cient for 1 mould. Seasonable from No- vember to May, OEAN-GES, Iced. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb, of pounded loaf sugar allow the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Whisk the whites of the eggs well, stir in the sugar, and beat this mixture for \ hour. Skin the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible without injuring the pulp of the fruit; pass a thread through the centre of each orange, dip them into the sugar, and tie them to a stick. Place this stick across the oven, and let the oranges remain until dry, when they will have the appearance of balls of ice. They make a pretty dessert or supper dish. Care must be taken not to have the oven too fierce, or the oranges would scorch and acquire a brown colour, which would entirely spoil their appear- ance. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour to dr^ in a moderate oven. "Average cost, l^d, each. Sufficiejit.—J lb. of sugar to ice 12 oranges. Seasonable from November to May. ORANGES, Preserved. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb, of juice and pulp allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; to every pint of water ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Wholly grate or peel the oranges, taking off only the thin outside portion of the rind. Make a small incision where the stalk is taken out, squeeze out as much of the juice as can be obtained, and preserve it in a basin with the pulp that accompanies it. Put the oranges into cold water; let them stand for 3 days, changing the water twice ; then boil them in fresh water till they are very tender, »ad put them to drain.