TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 812 September, Plain Family Dinners son tart; cream ; fruit jelly ; prawns; lobster salad. Dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Flemish soup; turbot, garnished with fried smelts ; red mullet and Italian sauce. Entrees.—Tendrons de veau and trufiQes; lamb cutlets and sauce piquante. Second Course.—Loin of veal k la B€chamel; roast haunch of venison; braised ham; gi'ouse pie ; vege- tables. Third Course, — Roast hare ; plum tart; whipped cream ; punch jelly ; compete of damsons; marrow pudding; dessert. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Game 'soup ; crimped skate; slices of salmon h la geu6v€se. Entrees. — Fricasseed sweetbreads ; sa- voury rissoles. Second Course.—Sirloin of beef and horseradish sauce ; boiled leg of mutton and caper sauce; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast partridges; char- lotte Russe; apricots and rice; fruit jelly; .cabinet pudding; dessert. First Course. — Thick gravy soup; fillets of turbot k la crSme ; stewed eels. Entrees.—Vol-au-vent of lobster; salmi of grouse. Second Course.—Haunch of venison ; rump of beef h la Jardiniere ; hare, boned and larded, with mushrooms. Third Course.—Roast grouse; apricot blancmange ; compote of peaches; plum- tart ; custards; plum-pudding ; dessert. SEPTEMBEB, Plain Family Din- ners for. Sunday.—1. Julienno soup. 2. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, horse- radish sauce, French beans, and potatoes. 3. Greengage pudding, vanilla cream. Monday.—1. Crimped skate and crab sauco. 2. Cold beef and salad, small veal-and-ham pie. 3. Vegetable marrow and white sauce. Tuesday. — 1. Fried solos, melted butter. 2. Bowled fowls, parsley-and- butter; bacon-cheek, garnished with French beans ; beef rissoles, made from remains of cold beef. 3. Plum tart and cream. Wednesday.—1. Boiled round of beef, carrots, turnips, and suet dumplings; marrow on toast. 2. Baked damsons and rice. Thursday.—\. Vegetable soup, mado from liquor that beol was boiled in, 2. September, Things In Season Lamb cutlets and cucumbers, cold bo( and salad. 3. Apple pudding. Friday.—!. Baked soles. 2. Bubble and-squeak, made from cold beef ; vet cutlets and rolled bacon. 3. Damson tan Saturday.—1. Irish stew, rump-sleak and oyster-sauce. 2. Somersetshir dumplings. Simday.—1. Fried filleted soles an' anchovy sauce. 2. Roast log of mutton brown onion sauce, French beans, an< potatoes; half calfs head, tongue, an< brains. 3. Plum-tart; custards, in glasses Monday.—1. Vegetable-marrow soup 2. Calf's head h. la maltre d'hCtel, fron remains of cold head; boiled brisket o beef and vegetables. 3. Stewed frui and baked rice pudding. Tuesday.—1. Roast fowls and water cresses; boiled bacon, garnished witl tufts of cauliflower; hashed mutton, fron remains of mutton of Sunday. 2. Bakec plum-pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roiled knuckle of vea and rice, turnips, potatoes; small ham garnished with French beans. 2. Baked api^le pudding. Thursday.—1. Brill and shrimp sauce 2. Roast hare, gravy, and red-currant jelly; mutton cutlets and mashed po tatoes. 3. Scalloped oysters, instead of pudding. Friday. — 1. Small roast loin of mutton ; the remains of hare, jugged vegetable marrow and potatoes, 2. Damson pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steaks, broiled and oyster-sauce, mashed potatoes vcal-and-ham pie,—the ham may be cut from that boiled on Wednesday, if not all eaten cold for breakfast 2. Lemon pudding. SEPTEMBER, Things in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp, cod, cols, flounders, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, turbot, whiting, whitebait. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veaU Poultry. — Chickens, ducks, fowls gecsc, larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits teal, turkeys. Uaine. —Blackcock, buck venison, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants. Vegetables. — Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbage sprouts, caiTots, celery, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, pease, potatoes, salads, sea-kalo, sprouts, toma- toes, turnips, vegctablo marrow^-* various herbs.