THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERT. 267 Potatoes, how to use Cold Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of cooked pota- toes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any- time. POTATOES, how to use Cold. Ingredients.—The remains of cold po- tatoes ; to every lb. allow 2 tablespoon- fuls of flour, 2 ditto of minced onions, 1 oz. of butter-milk. Mode.—M&sh. the potatoes with a fork until perfectly free from lumps ; stir in the other ingre- dients, and add sufBcient milk to moisten them well; press the potatoes into a mould, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely brown, which will be in from 20 minutes to h hour. Turn them out of the mould," and serve. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Seasonable at any time. POTATOES, to Steam. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; boiling water. Mode.—This mode of cooking potatoes is now much in vogue, particularly where they are wanted on a large scale, it being 60 veiy convenient. Pare the potatoes, throw them into cold water as they are peeled, then put them into a steamer. Place the steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the potatoes from 20 to 40 minutes, according to the size and sort. When a fork goes easily through them, they are done; then take them up, dish, and serve very Luickly. Time.—20 to 40 minutes. Ave- ••age cost, 45. per bushel. Sufficient.— Jlow 2 large potatoes to each person. Reasonable all the year, but not so good rhilst new potatoes are in season. ^OULET AUX CBESSONS. Ingredients.—A fowl, a large bunch of rater-cresses, 3 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, \ pint of gravy. Mode.—Truss and hoast a fowl by recipe, taking care that It is nicely frothed and brown. Wash Ind dry the water-cresses, pick them picely, and arrange them in a flat layer tn a dish. Sprinklo over a little salt Lnd the above proportion of vinegar; |)lace over these the fowl, and pour over It the gravj'. A little gravy should bo lervcd in a tureen. When not liked, Ihe vinegar may bo omitted. Time.— Trom to 1 hour, according to size. nverage cost, in full season, 2s. Qd. each. \ulficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable It any tim?. Pound Cake POULET A LA MARENGO. Ingredients. — 1 large fowl, 4 table- spoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of stock or water, about 28 mushroom-buttons, salt and pepper to the taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a very small piece of garlic. Mode.—Cut the fowl into 8 or 10 pieces, put them with the oil into a stewpan, and brown them over a moderate fire ; dredge in the above proportion of flour, when that is brown, pour in the stock or water, let it simmer very slowly for rather more than ^ an hour, and skim off the fat as it rises to the top ; add the mushrooms, season with pepper, salt, garlic, and sugar; take out the fowl, which arrange pyramidically on a dish, with the inferior joints at the bottom. Reduce the sauce by boiling it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufiiciently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon; pour over the fowl, and serve. Time.—Altogether 50 minutes. Average cost, 3s. Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. POUND CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of butter, 1| lb. of flour, 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lb. of currants, 9 eggs, 2 oz. of candied peel, | oz. of citron, § oz. of sweet almonds ; when liked, a little pounded mace. Mode.— Work the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour; add the sugar, currants, can- died peel, which should be cut into neat slices, and the almonds, which should be blanched and chopped, and mix all these well together; whisk the eggs, and let them be th o r o u ghl y blended with the dry ingredients. Beat the cake well for 20 minutes, and put it intoaround tin,lined at the bottomand sides with a strip of white buttered paper. Bake it from 11 to 2 hours, and let the oven be well heated when tho cake is fii'st put in, as, if this is not tho case, the currants will all sink to tho bottom of it. To make this preparation light, the yolks and whites of tho eggs should be beaten separately, and added separ- ately to tho other ingredients. A glass of wine is sometimes added to tho mix- ture ; but this is scarcely necessary, aa tho cake will be found quite rich enough witUoiit it. !i'me.—l^ to 2 hours. Ave- POUlfD CAKE.