522 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of large at first, it will then be necessary to do so. WuEN THE Stock is ■vn'ell Skimmed, autl begins to boil, put in salt and vege- tables, which to every 3 lbs. of meat should consist of three carrots, two turnips, one parsnip, a few leeks, and a little celery. You can add, according to taste, a iiieco' of cabbage, two or three cloves stuck in an onion, and a tomato. The latter gives a very rgreeable flavour to the stock. If burnt onion be added, it ought, according to the advice of a famous French chef, to be tied in a little bag : without this precaution, the colour of the stock is liable to be clouded. By Tnis TIME wo will now suppose that you have chopped the bones which were separated from the meat, and those which were left from the roast meat of the day before. Eemember, as was before pointed out, that the more these are broken, the more gelatine you will have. The best way to break them up is to pound them roughly in an iron mortal-, adding, from time to time, a little water, to prevent them getting heated. It is a great saving thus to make use of the bones of meat, which, in too many English families, we fear, are entirely wasted ; for it is certain, as previously stated, that two ounces of bone contain as much gelatine (which is the nutritive portion of stock) as one pound of meat. In their broken state tie them up in a bag, and put them in the stock-pot; adding the gristly pai-ts of cold moat, and trimmings, which can be used for no other purpose. If, to make up the weight, you have received from the butcher a piece of mutton or veal, broil it slightly over a clear firo before putting it in the stock-pot, and bo very careful that it docs not contract the least taste of being smoked or burnt. Add now the Vegetables, which, to n certain extent, will stop the boiling of the slock. Wait, therefore, till it simmers well up again, then draw it to the side of the fire, and keep it gently simmering till it is served, preserving, as before said, your firo always tho same. Cover tho stock-put well, to prevent evaporation ; do not fill it up, even if you take out a little stock, unless tho meat is exposed ; in which ca.se a little boiling- water may be added, but only enough to cover it. After six hours' slow and gentle simmering, the stock /s done; and it should I'ot bo continued on the Soup, Brilla fire longer than is necessary, or it wi tend to insipidity. Note.—It is on a good stock, oi fin good broth and sauce, that excellence i cookery depends. If tho preparati' of this basis of tho culinary art is i: trusted to negligent or ignorant persoi. and the stock is not well skimmed, b . indifferent results will bo obtaine<i h i Tho stock will never be clear; and whei(^ it is obliged to be clarified, it is deterici rated both in quality and flavour. the proper management of the st<.)ck an immense deal of trouble is saved inasmuch as one stock, in a small dinneii serves for all purposes. Above things, tho greatest economy, consisten with excellence, should be practised and the price of everything which ente^ the kitchen 'correctly ascertained. Tj| theory of this part of Household Mana mcnt may appear trifling, but its pr tice is extensive, and therefore itrequL the best attention. SOUP, Baked. Ingredients—Wh. of any kind of meat' any 'trimmings or odd pieces ; 2 ouionsj 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice, 1 pint of spKi peas, pepper and salt to taste, 4 qu of water. J/orfe.—Cut the meat am vegetables in slices, add to them the rici antl peas, season with pepper and salf. Put the whole in a jar, fill up with thr water, cover very closely, and bake fc 4 hours. Tmc—4 hours. Average cos. 2hl. per quart. Seasonable at any time* Hvfficicni for 10 or 12 persons. _This will be found a verycbea' and wholesome soup, and will be conver icnt in those cases where baking is mor easily performed than boihng. SOUP, Brilla, Iin/redi'cnis.- 4 lbs. of shin of l)ec) 3 eur'rots, 2tuniiiis,alarge.';prigof thymt 2 onions, 1 head of celery, Sidt an pepper to tattc, 4 quarts watei Mode.—Take the beef, cut off all tl. moat from tho bone, in nice .squar. pieces, and boil tho bono for 4 hours Strain tho liquor, let it cool, and tak off the fat; then put the pieces of m«i in tho cold liquor ; cut small the carrotf turnips, and celery; chop the onions add tiicm with the thyme and scasoninp. and simmer till tho meat is tender. J not brown enough, colour it with brcwO in--. Tme.—6 hours. Avcrogt cost 1 \