THE DTCTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 113 Eggs, to Boil contents one way until they thicken, but do not allow tliem to boil. Serve in a glass with sippets of toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. When the egg is not warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but it is not so plea- sant a drink. Sufficient for 1 person. EGGS, to Boil for Breakfast, Sa- lads, &c. Eggs for boiling cannot be too fresh, or boiled too soon after they are laid ; but rather a longer time should be al- lowed for boiling a new-laid egg than for one that is three or four days old. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water ; put the eggs into it gently with a spoon, letting the spoon touch the bottom of the saucepan before it is withdrawn, that the egg may not fall, and consequently crack. For those who like eggs lightly boiled, 3 minutes will be found sufficient; 3j to 4 minutes will be ample time to set the white nicely ; and, if liked hard, 6 to 7 mi- nutes will not be found too long. Should EaO-STAND FOE THB BBEAKrAST-TABLE. the eggs be unusually large, as those of blick Spanish fowls sometimes are, allow an extra ^ minute for them. Eggs for salads should be boiiod from 10 minutes to i hour, and should be placed in a basin of cold water for a few minutes; they should then be rolled on the table with the hand, and the .shell will peel ofif easily. Time.—To boil eggs lightly, for invalids or children, 3 minutes ; to boil eggs to suit the generality of tastes, 3^ to 4 minutes; to boil eggs hard, 6 to 7 mi- nutes ; for salads, 10 to 15 minutes. EGGS, Buttered. Inf/redients.—4 new-laid eggs, 2 oz, of bulior. Mode.—Procure the eggs new- laid if possible ; break them into a basin, and boat them well; put the butter into Eggs, Pried another basin, which place in boiling water, and stir till the butter is melted. Poiu- that and the eggs into a lined saucepan ; hold it over a gentle fire, and, as the mixture begins to warm, pour it two or three times into the basin, and back again, that the two ingredients may be well incorporated. Keep stirring the eggs and butter one way until they are hot, u-ilkout hoiling, and serve on hot buttered toast. If the mixture is allowed to boil, it will curdle, and so be entirely spoiled. Tiiiie.—About 5 minutes to make the eggs hot. Average cost, Id. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to Choose. In choosing eggs, apply the tongue to the large end of the egg, and, if it feels warm, it is new, and may be relied on as a fresh egg. Another mode of ascer- taining their freshness is to hold them before a lighted candle or to the light, and, if the egg looks clear, it will be tolerably good; if thick, it is stale ; and if there is a black spot attached to the shell, it is worthless. No egg should be used for culinary purposes with the sUghtest taint in it, as it will render perfectly useless those with which it has been mixed. Eggs that are purchased, and that cannot be relied on, should always be broken in a cup, and then put into a basin : by this means stale or bad eggs may be easily rejected, without wasting the others, EGGS, Ducks'. Ducks' eggs are usually so strongly flavoured that, plainly boiled, they £ire not good for eating; they answer, how- ever, very well for various culinary pre- parations where eggs are required ; such as custards, &c. &c. Being so large and highly-flavoured, 1 duck's egg will go as far as 2 small hen's eggs, besides making whatever they are mixed with exceedingly rich. They also ai'e ad- mirable when used in puddings. EGGS, Fried. Ingredients. — 4 eggs, \ lb. of lard, butter or clarified dripping. Mode.— Place a delicately-clean frying-pau over a gentle fire ; put in the fat, and allovj