THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 252 Pigeons, Broiled PIGEONS, BroUed. Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Take care that the pigeons are quite fresh, and carefully pluck, draw, and wash them ; liplit the backs, rub the birds over with butter, season them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a moderate fire for ^ hour or 20 minutes. Serve very hot, with either mushroom-sauce or a good gravy. Pigeons may also be plainly boiled, and served with parsley and butter; they should be trussed like boiled fowls, and take from ^ hour to 20 minutes to boil. Time.—To broil a pigeon, from J hour to 20 minutes; to boil one, the same time. Average cost, from 6d. to 9d. each. Seasonable from April to September, but in the greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michael- mas. PIGEONS, Hoast. Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Trussing.— Pigeons, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes ofiF), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint: previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. BOASI FIGEOir. Mode.—Wipe the birds very dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put about ^ oz. of butter into the body of each: this makes them moist. Place them at a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from 20 to 30 minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of parsley and butter. Bread sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceedingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sauce. Time.—From 20 minutes to J hour. Average cost, 6d. to yd. each. Seasonable from April to September; but in the gi'eatest perfec- tion from Midsummer to Michaelmas, Pike, Boiled PIGEONS, Stewed. Ingredients.—Q pigeons, a few slices c bacon, 3 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonful of minced parsley, sufficient stock t cover the pigeons, thickening of buttc and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushrooi ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port wint Mode.—Empty and clean the pigeor thoroughly, mince the Jivers, add t these the parsley and butter, and put into the insidcs of the birds. Tru: them with the legs inward, and put the; into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacc placed under and over them; add tl stock, and stew gently for rather mo: than ^ hour. Dish the pigeons, stra the gravy, thicken it with butter af. flour, add the ketchup and port win give one boil, pour over the pigeons, ai serve. Time.—Rather more than ^ hou Average cost, 6d. to 9d. each. Sufficu. for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fro April to September. PIKE, Baked. Ingredients.—1 or 2 pike, a nice dea -rt cate stuffing (see Forcemeats), 1 egj bread crumbs, | lb. butter. Mode. Scale the fish, take out the gills, wassfta and wipe it thoroughly dry ; stuff: with forcemeat, sew it up, and fast; the tail in the mouth by means of' skewer; brush it over with egg, sprinl with bread crumbs, and baste w butter, before putting it in the o\' which must bo well heated. When ; pike is of a nice brown colour, co- it with buttered paper, as the outb would become too dry. If 2 are dressi a little variety may be made by maki one of them green with a little chopj ■ parsley mixed with the bread crum Serve anchovy or Dutch sauce, and p! melted butter with it. Time.—Acco ing to size, 1 hour, more or less. A rage cost.—Seldom bought. Seasonc from September to March. iS''o<e,—Pike d la aenevese may stewed in the same manner as salmo la ginivese. PIKE, Boiled. Ingredients.—i lb. of salt to e gallon of water ; a little vinegar. J/' —Scale and clean the pike, and faf the tail in its mouth by means o skewer. Lay it in cold water, and w it boils, throw in the salt and vine, t