SS7 A Ham Garnished. Mode.—Lot this joint hang as loDg as possible without becoming tainted, and while hanging dust flour over it, which keeps off the flies, and prevents the air from getting to it. If not well hung, the joiiit, when it comes to table, will do credit neither to the butcher nor the cook, as it will not be tender. Wash the outside well, lest it should have a bad flavour from keeping ; then flom- it and put it down to a nice brisk fire, at some distance, so that it may gradually warm through. Keep continually basting, and about ^ hour before it is served, draw it nearer to the fire to get nicely brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, pour off the diippicg, add a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Place a paper ruche on the bone, and send red-currant jelly and gravy in a tureen to table with it. BOAST LEG OF MUTTON". Ingbedients.—Leg of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—As mutton, when freshly killed, is never tender, hang it almost as long as it will keep ; flour it, and put it iu a cool au-y place for a few days, if the weather will permit. "Wash off the flour, wipe it very dry, and cut off the shank- bone ; put it down to a brisk, clear fire, dredge with floui-, and keep continually basting the whole time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before serving, draw it near the fire to get nicely brown ; sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the meat,, pour off the dripping, add some boihng water slightly salted, strain, and serve, A HAM GARNISHED. Ingbedients.—Ham, water, glaze, or raspings. Mode.—In choosing a ham, ascertain that it is perfectly sweet, by running a. sharp knife into it, close to the bone; and if, when the knife is withdrawn, it has an agreeable smeU, the ham is good ; if, on the contrary, the blade has a greasy appearance and offensive smell, the ham is bad. If it has been long hung, and it is verj- dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours, changing the water fre- quently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hoiu-s would be sufiicient for a Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham. Wash it thoroughly clean, and trim away from the under side all the rusty and smoked pai-ts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boiling-pot,, with suflBcient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiling, nor boil too quickly. When done, take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few fine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and serve. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in tho water until nearly cold: by this method the juices ara kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot;. it should, however, bo borne in mind that the ham must not remain in the sauce- l)an uU night. When the skin is removed, sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if • wanted particularly nice, glaze it. Place a paper frill round the knuckle, and; garnish with parsley or cut vegetable flowers. i