THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Mushrooms, Baked vhich must bo nicely cleaped, and free rom grit, and the stalks cut off. Let ;hem simmer gently for about 10 mi- lutes, or until they are quire tender, 'ut in the seasoning and ketchup ; let I just l)oil, when serve. Time.—Rather nore than 10 minutes. Averagp. cast, \d. Seasonable from August to October. yiirSHROOMS, Baked (a Break., fast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish)^ Ingredients. — 16 to 20 mushroom- laps, butter, popper to tasto. Mode.— or thi- mode of cocking, the mushroom- aps are better than the b\utons, and ihonld not be too large. Cut off a por- ion of the stalk, peel the top, and wipe he mushrooms carefully with a piece of ;innel and a little fine salt. Put them nto a tin hakinir-dish, with a very small )iece of butter placed on each mnsh- oom ; sprinkle over a little pepper, and et them bake for about 20 minutes, or onger should the mushrooms be very arge. Have ready a very hoi dish, pile he mushrooms high in the centre, pour .he gravy round, and send them to table [uickly, with very hot plates. Time.— 0 minutes; large mushrooms, A hour. Iverage cost, Id. each for largo mush- oom-iflaps. Svfjicient for 5 or 6 persons. reasonable, — Meadow mushrooms in leptember and October; cultivated ushrooras may be had at any time. IHTSHROOMS, Broiled (a Break- fast, Luncheon, or Supper Dish). Ingredients.—Mushroom-flaps, pepper ,Tid salt to taste, butter, lemon-juice. [ode. — Cleanse the mushrooms by wiping them with a piece of flannel and alittlesalt; cut ofl a portion of the stalk, and peel the tops ; •roil them over a clear fire, turning BBOILBS MCSn BOOMS. hem once, and arrange them on a very ot dish. Put a small piece of butter on acb mushroom, season with pepper .nd salt, and squeeze over them a few rops of lemon-juice. Place the dish efore the fire, and when the butter is alted, serve very hot and quickly, loderatc-sized flaps are better suited to his mode of cooking than the buttons : lie latter aro better in stows. Time.— 0 Buoutcs for Djcdiuaj-nized mushroums. Mushrooms, to Preserve, Average cost. Id. each for large mush- rooms. Sufficient—AWow 3 or 4 mush- rooms to each person. Seasonable.— Meadow mushrooms in September and October ; cultivated mushrooms may bo had at any time. MUSHROOMS, Dried. Mode.—Wipe them clean, take 8.w!»y the brown p irt, and peel off the skin ; lay them on sheets of paper to dry, in a cool oven, when tliey will shrivel con- siderably. K< ep them in paper bags, which hang in a dry place. When wanted for use, put them into cold gravy, bring them trradually to simmer, and it will he found that they will regaiQ nearly their usual size. MUSHROOMS, Pickled. Ingredients. — Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms ; to each quart ot mushrooms, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 oz. of groimd pepper, salt to taste. Mode. —Choose some nice young button mushrooms for pickling, and rub off the skin with a piece of flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks; if very largo, take out the red inside, and reject the black ones, as they are too old. Put them into a stew- prm, sprinkle salt over them, with pounded mace and pepfier in the above proportion ; shake them well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, and keep them there until they are all dried up again ; then add as much vinegar as will cover them ; just let it simmer for 1 minute, and store it away in stone jars for use. When cold, tie down with bladder and keep in a dry place: they will remain good for a length of time, and are gene- rally considered delicious. Seasonable.— Make this the same time as ketchup, from the beginning of September to the- middle of October. MUSHROOMS, to Preserve. Ingredients.—To each quart of mush» rooms, allow 3 oz. butter, pepper and salt to taste, the juice of 1 lemon, clari- rified butter. Mode.—Fne] the mush- rooms, put them into cold water, with a little loraon-juice ; take them out and dry them very carefully in a cloth. Put the butter into a stewpan capable of holding the mushrooms; when it is melted, add the musln'noms, lemon- juice, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; draw them down over a slow firo, evud let thcia ismaia until thslr Ut^uov ie