THE UICTIOXARY OP COOKEIlY. 133 Fcwl, Mmced FOWL, Minced, b, la Bdchamel. fCoLD Meat Cooicerv.] Iiujrcdients. —Tho remuins of cold roust fowl, G tablo- Bpoonfu's of BiScliamel sauce, G tablc- Bpoonfuls of whito stock, tho white of 1 o<rg, brea'l-crumbs, claiiticd biuter. Mode.—Take the remains of roastfowls, mince tho wiiito meat very small, and put it into a stewpan with tho Bechamel and Btock ; stir it well over tho lire, and just let it boil up. Pour the mince into a dish, beat up the whito of egg, sjiread it over, and strew on it a few grated bread- crumbs ; pour avei'ylittle clarified butter on the whole, and brown either before the fire or v;ith a salamander. This should bo served in a silver dish, if at hand. Time.—2 or 3 minutes to simmer in the sauce. SeasonaUe at any time. FOWL, Bagout of. [Cold Meat Cookery.] IngmVents. — i'he remains of cold roast fowls, 3 sha- lots, 2 blades of mace, a fasrgot of sa- voury herbs, 2 or 3 slices of lean ham, 1 pint of stock or water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 tablespuonful of lemon-juice, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the fowls cp into neat pieces, the same as for a fricassee ; put the trimmings into a stowpan with the sbalots, mace, herbs, ham, onion, and stock (water may bo substituted for this). Boil it slowly for 1 hour, strain the liquor, and jnit a small piece of but- ter into a stewpan ; when melted, drcdgo in sufficient flour to dry up tho butter, and stir it over tho fire. Put, in tho strained liquor, boil for a few minutes, and strain it again over the pieces of fowl. Squeezfe in the lemon-juice, add tho sugar and a seasoning of pepper and salt, make it hot, but do not allow it to boil; lay the fowl neatly on tho dish, and garnish with crofitons. Time.—Al- together \h hour. Average cost, oxclu- Aive of tho cold fowl, 9d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Hoast. Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, a little flour. Mode.—Fowls, to be tender, should bo killed a cotiplo of days before thej' are dressed ; when tho feathers come out easily ; then let them bo picked and cooked. In drawmg them bo cart ful not to brouk tho pall-bag', as, wherever it Fowl, Hoast, to Carve touches, it would unpart a very bittot tasto; tho liver and gizzard bhould aisc bo preserved. Truss them in the follow, ing maimer:—After having carelull} picked them, cutoff the head, ai<d site wei the sldn of tho neck down over tho back. Cut off tlie claws, dip the legs in boiling water, and scrape tliem ; turn tho pinion: under, run a skewer through them ant tho middle of the legs, which should b< passed through tho body to tho pinioi and leg on the other side, one skewefi securing tho limbs on both sides. Tin. til & nOAST FOWL. liver and-gizzard should ho placed in th wings, tho liver on one side and tho giz zard on the other. Tie the legs togethe by passing a trussing-needle, tbreadc with twine, through the backbone, an'j secure it on tho other side. If trussee liko a capon, the legs are placed nior- apart. When firmly trussed, singe thcc all over ; put them down toabrightclea file, paper tho breasts with a sheeto bnttei'ed paper, and keep the fowls we. basted. I?oast them for ^ hour, more o less, according to the size, and 10 minute ■ before serving, remove tho paper, drcdg the fowls with a little fine tiour, put; piece of butter into the basting-ladle, ana )^ as it melts baste tho fowls with it; whei nicely frothed and of a rich colour, sem with good brown gravy (a little of whic should bo poured over the fowls), and tureen of well-made breail sauce. Must- room, oyster, or egg sauce, are very suil able accompaniments to roast fowl. Chicken is roasted in the same manneir#S ] Time.—A very large fowl, quite 1 Imun 'k.-^, a medium-sized one, ^ hour ; chickeH % J hour, or rather longer. A va-age flMM in full season, 5s. a pair; when scarct 75. Gd. the pair. Snfficient for 6 or sons. Seasonable all the year, but in early spring. ige com fij« scarct ' " r 7 pc! f t scare I FOWL, Hoast, to Carve. A roast fowl is carved in tho sani manner as a boiled fowl, viz., by c ■'■'■^ along tho line from 1 to 2. and then tho leg between it and the winjj markings and detached pieces, as hi the cnijraviugrs under the heading < I