THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 149 Greengages, Preserved in Syrup together to a rich syrup. Boil tho fruit in tiiis for 10 minutes, removo it from tbe fire, and drain tho greengages. Tho Dext day, boil up tho syrup and put in the fruit a;/ain, and let it simmer for 3 minutes, and drain tho syrup away. Continue this process for 5 or 6 days, iind the last time placo the greengages, when drained, on a hair sieve, and put them in an oven or warm spot to dry ; coep them in a box, with paper between Bach layer, in a placo free from damp. Time.—10 minutes the first time of boil- ing. Seasonahle.—Make this in August or September. GBEENGAGES, Preserved in Syrup. Inp'edienta.—To evei-ylb. of fruit allow lib. of loaf sugar, ^ pint of water. Mode. —Boil the sugar and water together for about 10 minutes; divide the green- gages, take out tho stones, put the fruit nto the syrup, and let it simmer gently until nearly tender. Take it off the fire, rat it into a large pan, and, the next day, boil it up again for about 10 minutes jrith the kernels from tho stones, which ihould be blanched. Put the fruit caro- 'ully into jars, pour over it tho syrup, ind, wiien cold, cover down, so that the lir is quite excluded. Lot the s\rup bo well skimmed both the first and second Jay of boiling, otherwise it will not be ilear. Time.—10 minutes to boil the lyrup ; \ hour to simmer the fruit the irst day, 10 minutes tho second day. Avenu/e cost, from 6d. to <ScZ. per lb. ]iot. Sufficient.—Allow about 1 pint of fruit K) fill a 1-lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make ,his in August or September, OBEENS, Boiled Turnip. Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of water lllow 1 heaped tablespoontul of salt; tur- lip-greens. Mode.— Wash tho greens well in two or three waters, and pick off ill the decayed and dead leaves ; tie .hem in small bunches, and put them nto plenty of boiling water, suited in the ibovo proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid of tho saucepan incovered, and when tender, pour them nto a colander; lot them drain, arrange them in a vegetable-dish, removo the itring that tho greens woro tied with, land servo. Time.—'ib to 20 minutes, wAverage cost, 4d. for a dish for 3 yiersous. wSeatonaO'.e in March, April, and May. Grouse, to Carve GBOUSE PIE. Ingredients.—Grouso ; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste ; 1 lb. of rump-steak, ^ pint of well-seasoned broth, putf-paste. Mode.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with the rutiip-steak cut into neat pieces, and, should the grouse be large, cut theoi into joints; but, if small, thoy may ba laid in the pie whole ; season highly with salt, cayenne, and black peppor; pour in tlie broth, and cover with a puff-paste ; brush the crust over with the yolk of an egg, and bake from ^tol hour. If the grouso is cut into joints, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by stewing them with an onion, a little sherry, a bunch of herbs, and a blado of maco: this should bo poured in after the pie is baked. Time.—^ to 1 Iiour. A verage cost, exclusive of tho arouse, which aro seldom bought, Is. Qd. Seas'^n- able from tho 12th of August to tho beginning of December. GROUSE, Boast. Ingredients.—Grouso, butter, a thick slice of toasted bread. Mode.—Let the birds hang as long as possible ; pluck and draw them ; wipe, but do not wash them, inside and out, and truss them without the head, the same as for a roast fowl. Many persons still continue to truss them BOAST GBOUSE. with the head under tho wing, but the former is now considered the most ap- pi-oved method. Put them down to a sharp clear fire ; keep thom well basted tho whole of the time they are cooking, and serve them on a buttered toast, soaked in the dripping-pan, with a little melted butter poured over them, or with bread-sauco and gravy. Time. A hour ; if liked vet7 thoroughly done, 35 minutes. Average cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. tho brace; but seldom bought. Suji' cient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. GBOUSE, to Carve. Grouso may bo cfu-ved in tha way first