25 THE DIOTIONAET OF COOKERY. Batter Pudding, Boiled the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, bake in a moderate oven for 1| hour, en fresh fruits are in season, this .ding is exceedingly nice, with dam- !, plums, red currants, gooseberries, ipples; when made with these, the ding must be thickly sprinkled over 1 sifted sugar. Boiled batter pudding, 1 fruit, is made in the same manner, Imtting the fruit into a buttered basin, t filling it up with batter made in the t ve proportion, but omitting the suet. Inust be sent quickly to table, and C-^red plentifully with sifted sugar. i'r. —Baked batter pudding, with fruit, ] o 1A hour; boiled ditto, 1J to 1| hour, awing that both are made with the fl ve proportion of batter. Smaller pud- i ■;s will be done enough in ^ or 1 hour. umfje cost, lOd. Svfficient for 7 or 8 ions. Seasonable at any time, with d fruits. ITTER PUDDING, Boiled. '■ 'fjredienis.—S eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 1 at of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a tl 0 sal t. Mode. —Put the flour into a and add sufficient milk to moisten . irefully rub down all the lumps with aoon, then pour iu the remainder of y milk, and stir in the butter, which i be previously melted; keep beat- ii lO mixture, add the eggs and a pinch e lit, and, when the batter is quite f jth, put it into a well-buttered basin, ti t down vei-y tightly, and put it into ' • ::; water ; move the basin about for minutes after it is put into the , to prevent the flour settling in any tnd boil for 1,^ hour. This pudding a also be boiled in a floured cloth tlv>t h been wetted in hot water: it will ' ake a few minutes less than when i in a basin. Send batter puddings « quickly to table, and sei-ve with SI it sauce, wine sauce, stewed fruit, or jl of any kind : when the latter is used, M'.le of it may be placed round the dish U mil quantities, as a garnish. Time. 1; our in a basin, 1 hour in a cloth. aije cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or 6 )5n8. Seasonable at any time. iJlpTER PUDDING, with Orange !armalade. \,gredienls.—i eggs, 1 pint of milk, of loaf su^ar, 3 tablespoonfuls of Mode.—Mako the batter with the Beans, Broad, a la Poulette above ingi-edients, put it into a well- buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 1 hour. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, put a small jar of orange marmalade all over the top, and send the pudding very quickly to table. It is advisable to warm the mar- malade to make it liquid. Time. —1 hour. Average cost, with the marmalade. Is. 3tZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time; but more suitable for a winter pudding. BEANS, Boiled Broad or Windsor. Ingredients. — To each I gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; beans. J/ocZe.—This is a favour- ite vegetable with many persons, but, to be nice, should be young and freshly gathered. After shelling the beans, put them into boiling water, salted in the above propoi-tion, and let them boil rapidly until tender. Drain them well in a colander; dish, and serve with them separately a tureen of parsley and butter. Boiled bacon should always accompany this vegetable, but the beans should be cooked separately. It is usually served with the beans laid round, and the parsley'and butter in a tureen. Beans also make an excellent garnish to a ham, and when used for this purpose, if very old, should have their skins removed. Time. — Very young beans, 15 minutes ; when a mo- derate size, 'iO to 25 minutes, or longer. Averacje cost, unshelled, 6d. per peck. Sufficient. — Allow one peck for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable'm July and August. BEANS, Broad, h la Poulette. Ingredients.—2 pints of broad beans i pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, a small lump of sugar, the yolk of 1 egg, ^ pint of ci'cam, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Procure some young and freshlj''- gathered beans, and shell sufficient to make 2 pints j boil them, as in the BBOAD Ml