251 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUT. Pig's Fry, to Dress IG'S PBY, to Dress. InjrecUents.—l^ lb. of pig's fry, 2 lions, a few sage leaves, 3 lbs. of 3tatoes, pepper and salt to taste. fo(/g._Put the lean fry at the bottom ■ a pio dish, sprinkle over it some iuced sage and onion, and a seasoning pepper and salt; slice the potatoes; it a layer of these on the seasonings, en the fat-fry, then more seasoning, id a layer of potatoes at the top. 11 the dish with boiling water, and ike for 2 hours, or rather longer.' liiig^—Rather more than 2 hours. Ave- ge cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient for 3 or persons. Seasonable from September March, IG-'S LIVEB, (a Savoury and Eco- nomical Dish). Ingredients.—The liver and lights of a g, 6 or 7 slices Of bacon, potatoes, large bunch of parsley, 2 onions, 2 go leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a ,tle broth or water. Mode.—Slice the •er and lights, and wash these perfectly 3an, and parboil the potatoes ; mince 0 parsley and sago, and chop the onion ther small. Put the meat, potatoes, id bacon into a deep tin dish, in alter- ,te layers, with a sprinkling of the rbs, and a seasoning of pepper and It between each ; pour on a little water broth, and bake in a moderately-heated on for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Ave- ge cost, 1.?. 6tZ. Sufficient for 6 or 7 rsons. Secisonalle from September to arch. IG'S PETTITOES. Ingredients.—A thin slice of bacon, jnion, 1 blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, ■yy 4 sprigs of thyme, 1 pint of gravy, pper and salt to taste, thickening of Lutcr and flour. Mode.—Put the liver, ui t, and pettitoes into a stowpan with e bacon, mace, peppercorns, thyme, ion, and gravy, and simmer these ntly for \ hour; then take out the art and liver, and mince them very 10. Keep stewing the feet until quite rider, which will be in from 20 minutes hour, reckoning from the time that ey boiled up first; then put back the iiiwd livor, thicken the gravy with little butter and flour, season with pper and salt; aud simmer over a gentle Pigeon Pie fire for 5 minutes, occasionally stirring the contents. Dish the mince, split the feet, and arrange them round alternately with sippets of toasted bread, and pour tho gravy in the middle. Time.—Alto- gether 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from September to March. PIGEOIT, to Carve. A very straightforward plan is adopted in carving a pigeon : the knife is caiTied sharply in the ^^gjj^^ A direction of tho ''^^^^mK^^'^ shown fi'om 1 to 2, en. ^^^^^^^^^ tirely _ through PIGEON. ting it into two precisely equal and similar parts. If it is necessary to make three pieces of it, a small wing should be cut oif with the leg on either side, thus serving two guests ; and, by this means, there will be sufficient meat left on the breast to send to the third guest. PIGEON PIE (Epsom Grand-Stand Kecipe). Ingredients.—li lb. of rump-steak, 2 or 3 pigeons, 3 slices of ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, puff crust. Mode.—Cut the steak into pieces about 3 inches square, and with it line the bottom of apie-di.ih, seasoning it well with pepper and sale. Clean the pigeons, rub them with pepper and salt inside and out, and put into the body of each rather more than ^ oz. of butter ; lay them on the steak, and a piece of ham on each pigeon. Add the yolks of four eggs, and half fill tho dish with stock ; place a border of puff paste round the edge of tliy dish, put on the cover, and ornament it in any way that may bo pre- ferred. Clean three of tho feet, and place them in a hole made in the crust at the top : this shows what kind of pie it is. Glaze tho crust,—that is to say, brush it over with the yolk of an egg,— and bake it in a well-heated oven for about 1^ hour. When liked, a season- ing of pounded mace may be added. Time.—l.j hour, or rather less. Averagt cost, 63. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 porsoua. Seasonable at any time,