THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 20S Mutton, Broiled, and Tomato Sauce put both tho moat and gi-avy back into the stewpan ; add about a quart of young green peas, and lot them boil gently until done. 2 or 3 slices of bacon added and stewed with tho mutton give additional flavour; and, to insure tho peas being a beautiful green colour, they may be boiled in water separately, and added to the stew at the moment of serving. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Juno to August. MUTTON, Broiled, and Tomato Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookebt.] Ingredients.— A fow slices of cold mutton, tomato sauce. Mode. — Cut some nice slices from a cold leg or shoulder of mutton; season them with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire. Make some tomato sauce, pour it over the mutton, and serve. This makes an excellent dish, and must be served very hot. Time. —About 5 minutes to broil the mutton. Seasonable in September and October, when tomatoes are plentiful and seasonable. MUTTOIf BROTH, to Make. Ingredients.—1 lb. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, 1 onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, h turnip, 3 pints of water, pepper and salt to taste. 3Iode.—Put tho mutton into a stewpan ; pour over the water cold, and add the other ingre- dients. When it boils, skim it very carefully, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer very gently for an hour ; strain it, let it cool, take off all the fat from the surface, and warm up as much as may be required, adding, if the patient be allowed to take it, a teaspoon- ful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Pearl barley or rice are very nice additions to mutton broth, and should be boiled as long as the other ingredients. When either of these is added, tho broth must not bo strained, out merely thoroughly skimmed. Plain mutton broth without seasoning is made by merely boiling the mutton, water, and salt together, straining it, letting the broth cool, skimming all the fat off, and warming up as much as is required. This preparation would bo very tasteless and insipid, but likely to agree with very delicote stomachs, whereas tho least additioa of other ingredients would have Mutton, Log of, to Carve tho contrary effect. Time. — l hour. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient to make from li to 2 pints of broth, SeasoiiaOU at any time. JVote.—Veal broth may be made iu the same manner ; tho knuckle of a ]og, or shoulder is the part usually used for r this purpose. It is very good wiih the' addition of the inferior joints of a fow),. or a few shank-bones. MUTTON BROTH, to Make; Quickly. Ingredients.—1 or 2 chops from a neck: of mutton, 1 pint of water, a small bunch i of sweet herbs, ^ of an onion, pepper: and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the meat; into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan . with the bones, but no skin or fat; add the other ingredients ; cover the sauce- pan, and bring the water quickly to boiL Take the lid off, and continue the rapid . boiling for 20 minutes, skimmmg it well during the process ; strain the broth into a bnsin ; if there should be any fabi left on the surface, remove it by laying a i piece of thin paper on the top ; the ■ greasy particles will adhere to the paper, and so free the preparation from them. To an invalid nothing is more disagree- ■ able than broth served with a quantity ■ of fat floating on the top ; to avoid this, it is always better to allow it to get' thoroughly cool, the fat can then bo so easily removed. Time.—20 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, 5d. Suf- ficicnt to make \ pint of broth. Season* able at any time. | MUTTON, Hauncli of, to Carve. A deep cut should, in the first place, be made quite down to the bone, across the knuckle-end of the joint, along the line 1 to 2. This will let tho gravy escape ; and then it should be carved, in not too thick slices, along the whole BlUKCH OF MCIIOK. length of tho haunch, in tho direction of the Uno from 4 to 3. MUTTON, Leg of, to Carve. This homely, but capital English joint, is almost invariably served at table W