1^ THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Gravy Soup Time. —^^athor more than 'Z hours, Ave- rage cost, 8d. per pint. QBAVY SOUP. Ingredierds.—Q lbs. of shin of beof, a knuckle of veal weighing 5 Ibo., a few Sieces or trimmings, 2 slices of nicely- avoured lean hani; \ lb. of butter, 4 onions, 4 carrots, 1 turnip, nearly ahead of celery, 3 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, seasoning of salt and pepper to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 6 quarts of boiling soft water. It can be flavoured with ketchup, Leamington Banco, Harvey's sauce, and a little soy. Made. — Slightly brown the meat and ham in the butter, but do not let them burn. When this is done, pour to it the water, and as the scum rises, take it off; when no more appears, add all the other ingredients, and let the soup simmer Blowly by the fire for 6 hours without stirring it any more from the bottom ; take it off, and let it settle ; skim off all the fat you ciin, and pass it through a sieve or cloth. When perfectly cold you can remove all the fat, and leave the sediment untouched, which serves veiy nicely for thick gi-avies, hashes, &c. Time. —7 hours. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sujjicient for 14 persons. GRAVY, Veal, for White Sauces, Fricassees, &c. Ingredients. — 2 slices of nicely-fla- voured lean ham, any poultry trimmings, 3 Ihs. of lean veal, a fiiggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, a few green onions (or 1 large onion may be substi- tuted for these), a few mushrooms, when obtainable; 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 3 pints of water. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, put these in a stewpan, moisten- ing them with a small quantity of water; place them over the fire to draw down. When the bottom of the stewpan becomes covered with a white glaze, fill up with water in the above proportion ; add the remaining ingredients, stew very slowly for 3 or 4 hours, and do not tbrget to ! skim well the moment it boils. Put it by, and when cold take olf all the fat. This may bo used for Bdchamel, s.anco tonrn<5o, and many other white sauces. Time.—3 or 4 hours. Average cost, 9U. per piut. Greengages, to Preserve _4 V' GBEENGAGE JAM. ^. Ingredients. — To every lb. of frultl ' weighed before being stoned, allow lb| ft* of lump sugar. Mode.—Divide the greeni gages, take out tiio stones, and put then' mto a preserving-pan. Bring the fruiti ma to a boil, then add tho sugar, and keoplC stirring it over a gentle fire until it i melted. Remove all the scum as itrises - and, just before the jam is done, boil i rapidly for 5 minutes. To ascertain whei it is sufTicicntly Vjoiled, pour a little on i plate, and if the syrup thickens and ap jiears firm, it is done. Have ready hal the kernels blanched ; put them iuV) the « jam, give them one boil, and pour tho preserve into pots. When col<l, coveji down with oiled papers, and, over theses tii^sue paper brushed over on both side* with the white of an egg. Time.—{■ hour after the sugar is added. A certun cost, fi-om 6d. to 8d. per lb. pot. Suji^- dent.—Allow about 1.^ pint of fruit fa every lb. pot of jam. Seasonable.—MaktJ this in August or September. GREENGAGES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 1 quart" of greengages. Mode.—Make a sjrup,; skim it well, and put in the gi-eengng«ji when the syiaip is boiling, having previ' ously removed the stalks and stones frorr the fruit. Boil gently for ^ hour, or unlL the fruit is tender; but take care not tc let it break, as the appearance of dish would be spoiled were the fruit duced to a pulp. Take the greeng^ carefully out, pl.ace them on a glass dish, boil tho syrup for another 5 minutes, let it cool a little, pour over tho fruit, and, when cold, it will bo ready for use. Time. —i hour to simmer the fiuit, 5 minuter the syrup. Average cost, in lull season,J6£ 10c/. sufficient for 4 or 5 pei-sons.'4 . Sea.w7iable in July, August, and Sep- ' tember. to Preserve andd every lb. of sugar GREENGAGES, Dry. Ingredients.—To allow 1 lb. of fruit, j pint of water. Mode.—For this purpose, tiie fi-uit must j bo used before it is quite ripe, and pivrt v of tho stalk must bo left on. Weigh tho fruit, rejecting all that is in tho least de- gree blemished, and ]>ut it into a lineJ saucepan with tho sugar and water. which should have been previously boild i