110 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Dutch Flixmmery for 10 or 12 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. DUTCH FLUMMERY. Ingredients.—l.J oz. of isinglass, the rind and juico of 1 lemon, 1 pint of water, 4 eggs, 1 pint of sherry, Madeira, or raisin-wine; sifted sugar to taste. Mode. —Put tlie water, isinglass, and lemon- rind into a lined saucepan, and simmer gently until the isinglass is dissolved ; strain this into a basin, stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, the lemon- juice, which should be strained, and the wine; sweeten to taste with pounded sugar, mix all well together, pour it into a jug, set this jug in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire, and keep stirring it one way imtil it thickens; but take care that it does not boil. Strain it into a mould that has been oiled or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cool place to set. A tablespoouful of brandy stirred iu just before it is poured into the mould, improves the flavour of this dish : it is better if it is made the day before it is required for table. Time. —I hour to simmer the isinglass ; about ^ hour to stir the mixture over the fire. Average cost, is. 6d.,if made with sherry; less with raisin-wine. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. EEL BROTH. Ingredients.—h lb. of eel, a small bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley, ^ onion, 10 pei^percoms, 3 pints of water, 2 cloves, salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —After having cleaned and skinned the eel, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the other ingre- dients ; simmer gently until the liquid is reduced to nearly half, carefully re- moving the scum as it rises. Strain it through a hair sieve : put it by in a cool place, and, when wanted, take off all the fat on the top ; warm up as much as is required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. This is a very nutritious broth, and easy of digestion. Time.—To be simmered until the liquor is reduced to half. Average cost, (jd. Sufficient to make IJ pint of broth. Seasonable from June to March. EEL PIE. Ingredients.—I lb. of eels, a little chopped parsley, 1 sbalot, grated nut- meg, pepper and salt to taste, the juice Eel, Collared of J a lemon, small quantity of force- meat, I pint of Bechamel; puff paste. Mode.—Skin and wash the eels, cut then: in pieces 2 inches long, and line the bottom of the pie-dish with forcemeat. Put in the eels, and sprinkle them with ihe parsley, shalots, nutmeg, seasoning, ano lemon-juice, and cover with puff-paste. Bake for 1 hour, or rather more ; mak€ the Bechamel hot, and pour it into the pie. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour; Seasonable from August to March. EEL SOUP. Ingredients.— 3 lbs. of eels, 1 onion 2 oz. of butter, 3 blades of mace, 1 bunel of sweet herbs, | oz. of peppercorns, sal to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, ^ pin of cream, 2 quarts of water. Mode. Wash the eels, cut them into thin slice and put them into the stewpan with th butter; let them simmer for a few mi notes, then pour the water to them, an add the onion, cut in thin slices, th herbs, mace, and seasoning. Simmer ti the eels are tender, but do not break th fish. Take them out carefullj', mix th flour smoothly to a batter with the cream bring it to a boil, pour over the eels, an serve. Time.—1 hour or rather more Average cost, lOcZ. per quart. Seasonal from June to March. Sufficient for persons. Note. — This soup may be flavourc differently by omitting the cream, an adding a Uttlo ketchup or Harvey sauce. EELS, Boiled. Ingredients.—4 small eels, sufBciei water to cover them ; a large bunch parsley. Mode.—Choose small eels f boiling; put them into a stewpan with tl parsley, and just sufhcient water to cov. them; simmer till tender. Take the out, pour a little parsley and butter ov them, and servo some in a tu'-eeu. Tim —h hour. Average cost, 6d. per 1 Seasonable from Juno to March. SvJ, cienttor 4 persons. EEL, Collared. Ingredients.—1 largo eel; pepper ai salt to taste; 2 blades of mace, 2 clove a littlo allspice very finely pounded, loaves of sage, anei a small bunch herbs minced very small. Mode.—'Qo the eel and skiu it; split it, and Bprmi