49 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread Crumbs, Fried BREAD CRUMBS, Priecl. Cut the bread into thin slices, place them iu a cool oven overnight, and when thoroughly dry and crisp, roll them down into fine crumbs. Put some lard, or clarified dripping, into a frying-pan ; bring it to the boiling-point, throw in the crumbs, and fry them very quickly. Directly they are done, lift them out with a slice, and drain them before the fire from all greasy moisture. When qiute crisp, they are ready for use. The fat they are fried in should be clear, and the crumbs should not have the slightest appearance or taste of having been, in the least degree, burnt. BREAD, Fried, for Borders. Proceed by fr3'ing some slices of bread, cut in any fanciful shape, in boiling lard. When quite crisp, dip one side of the sippet into the beaten white of an egg mixed with a little flour, and place it on the edge of the dish. Continue in this manner till the border is completed, ar- ranging the sippets a pale and a dark one alternately. BREAD, Fried Sippets of, for Gar- nisbing many Dishes. Cut the bread into thin slices, and stamp them out in whatever shape you like,—rings, crosses, diamonds, &c. &c. Fry them in the same manner as the bread crumbs, in clear boiling lard or clarified dripping, and drain them until thoroughly crisp before the fire. When variety is desired, fry some of a pale colour, and others of a darker hue. BREAKFASTS.' It will not be necessary to give here a long bill of fare of cold joints, &c., which may be placed on the sideboard, and do duty at the breakfast-table. Suffice it to say, that any cold meat the larder may furnish should be nicely garnished and be placed on the buffet. Collared and potted meats or fish, cold game or poultry, veal-and-ham pies, game-and- rumpsteak pics, are all suitable dishes for the breakfast-table; as also cold ham, tongue, &c. &c. The following list of hot dishes may perhaps assist our readers in knowing what to provide for the comfortable meal BriU called breakfast. Broiled fish, such as mackerel, whiting, herrings, dried had- docks, &c. ; mutton chops and rump- steaks, broiled sheep's kidneys, kidneys h, la m4itre d'hdtel, sausages, plain rashers of bacon, bacon and poached eggs, ham and poached eggs, omelets, plain boiled eggs, ceufs-au-plat, poached eggs on toast, muffins, toast, marmalade, but- ter, &c. &c. In the summer, and when they are obtainable, always have a vase of freshly- gathered flowers on the breakfast-table, and, when convenient, a nicely-arranged dish of fruit: when strawberries are in season, these are particularly refreshing; as also grapes, or even currants. BRILL. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water; a little vinegar. Mode.— Clean the brill, cut off the fins, and rub it over with a little lemon-juice, to pre- serve its whiteness. Set the fish in suffi- cient cold water to cover it; throw in salt, in the above proportions, and a little vihegar, and bring it gradually to boil: simmer very gently till the fish is done, which will be in about 10 minutes for a small brill, reckoning from the time the water begins to simmer. It is difficult to give the exact number of minutes required for cooking a brill, as the fish varies some- what in thickness, but the cook can always bear in mind that fish of every descrip- tion should be very thoroughly dressed, and never come to table in the least degree 2inderdone. The time for boiling of course depends entirely on the size of the fish. Sen'e it on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horseradish, and a little lobster coral sprinkled over the fish. Send lobster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter to table with it. Time.—After the water boils, a small brill, 10 minutes; a medium sized brill, 15 to 20 minutes ; a large brill, ^ hour. A verage cost, from 45. to 8s.; but when the market is plentifully supplied, may be had from 2s. each. Seasonahle from August to April. To choose Brill—The flesh of this fish, like that of turbot, should be of a yellow- ish tint, and should bo chosen on account of its thickness. If the flesh has a bluish tint, it is not good. A Brill and John Dory are carved in the same manner as a Turbot.