Spring Cleaning. a trellis is soon covered with creepers, nasturtium, jasmine, c'.ematis. The front r fender may be filled with green moss and cut flowers, or by pot' containing rowing plants. 158. Winter Curtains must be put awa}' carefully, after hanging out in the air or three or four days if in fine weather, bringing them in at ni}>ht. On the day you tepd to pack them away, beat them lightly with a thin stick, and fold them refully in as large folds as your store-place will allow, scatter a handful of bran one-dry) between each fold, and if placed in a large drawer or chest, add a bi^' mp of camphor. 159. Lined Chintz Curtains should be treated in a similar way, but do notre- .lire the camphor. The bran cleans both chintz and damask curtains in a wonderful nner, and there is but one thing to remember, that you must carefully shake t the bran when you draw them out again. The nicely washed and mended uslin curtains should hang in their due place, the pictures be replaced in posi- n. And now we turn to the blinds, a vexed subject in many households. I netian blinds are in question, they want simply washing, perhaps repainting, e tapes renovating, not along business in willing hands; but if the blinds be ite holland, on rollers, it is sad work. First, to get the blinds from the rollers, en to wash them and iron them straight, then to replace them, and then to find at no one in the house can pull them up straight. Roller-blinds that go up with entle spring, and come down with a gentle click-click are best; but if they are t quite clean and new, they should be taken down and made into nice glass- ths, for which they are well adapted, and new ones placed upon the rollers. 160. The Outside of a House, both back and front, is an index to the character its mistress. Every room should have a window neatly dressed with curtains blinds clean, neat, and hanging straight, 161. The Steps should rival the snow in whiteness, and be fresh whitened U)j. 162. The Bedrooms require a few words. The bedding should be taken out o rs, if possible, and well beaten and brushed, the bedstead taken to pieces, tber of wood or of iron, and well washed with hot water and soap. When te dry the bedding should be replaced, and the summer bed-curtains be nged with the bed-furniture. An opportunity should be taken of sending all nned goods to be repaired, as cans, baths, hot-water cans, &c. All the glass extra china should be washed or dusted in the china closet, the list gone over, all missing articles accounted for and replaced as soon as possible. 63. A few items of housewifery may be jotted down here. Have the pianos d as soon as the house-cleaning is over ; oil all the door locks, keys, and bolts every month. Oil all door and window lunges. Have every trifling repair