THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 188 Luncheons Bweet horbs, 1 strip of lomon-poel, 2 oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, 1 toasjioonful of flour, i pint of cream, 1 pint of milk; forcemeat balls, mace, salt, and pepper to taste, broad crumbs, 1 egg, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Pick the meat from the lobsters, and beat tho fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar, previously taking away the brown fin and the bag in tho head. Put it in a stewpan, with the crumb of the roll, anchovies, onions, herbs, lemon-peel, and the water; sim- mer gently till all the goodness is ex- tracted, and strain it off. Pound the spawn in a mortar, with the butter, nutmeg, and flour, and mix with it the cream and milk. Give one boil up, at the same time adding the tails cut in pieces. Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned with mace, pepper, and salt, adding a little floiu", and a few bread crumbs; moisten them with the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, Zs. 6d. per quart. Seaaonahle from April to October, Sufficient for 8 persons, XiUITCHEOTrS, The remains of cold joints, nicely gar- nished, a few sweets, or a little hashed meat, poultry or game, are the usual articles placed on the table for luncheon, ■with bread and cheese, biscuits, butter, &c. If a substantial meal is desired, rump-steaks or mutton chops may be served, as also veal cutlets, kidneys, or any dish of that kind. In families where there is a nursery, the mistress of the house often partakes of the meal with the children, and makes it her luncheon. In tho summer, a few dishes of fresh fruit should be added to the luncheon, or, instead of this, a comp6te of fruit or fruit tart, or pudding. MAOABONI, as usually served with the CHEESE COUESE, I, Ingredients.—I lb, of pipe macaroni, i lb. of butter,'6 oz. of Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of milk, 2 pints of water, bread crumbs. Mode.—Put tho milk and water into a saucepan with sufficient salt to flavour it; place it on the firo, and, whep it boils quickly, drop in the macaroni. Keep the water boiling until it is quite Macaroni tender ; drain the macaroni, and put i into a deep dish. Have ready the gnite cheese, either Parmesan or Cheshire sprinkle it amongst the macaroni an some of tho butter cut into small piotr- reserving some of tho cheese for tho layer. Season with a little pepper, cover the top layer of cheese with very line bread crumbs. Warm, with oiling, the remainder of tho butter, pour it gently over tho bread cninai| Place the dish belore a bright firo brown the crumbs; turn it once or iwia that it may be equally coloured, an serve very hot. The top of the macaroi may be browned with a salamanda* which is even better than placing 11 before the fire, as the process is mor expeditious; but it should never t ; browned in the oven, as the butter woul | oil, and so impart a very disagreeab! • flavour to the dish. In boiling the m; roni, let it be perfectly tender but ti: _ no part beginning to melt, and the \_ entirely preserved. It may be boiled] plain water, with a little salt instead! using milk, but should then have a smJ piece of butter mixed with it. Ti.ne.- 1 to H hour to boil the mac 5 minutes to brown it before thoj Average cost, Is. Qd. Sujjlcient >Btmm^.^ or 7 persons. Seasonable at any tirao,jkj,j; Note.—Piiband macaroni maybe dre in tho same manner, but does not roq boiling so long a time, n. Ingredients.—J lb. of pipe or ribaa macaroni, ^ pint of milk, I pint of yi^-^'' or beef gi'avy, the yolks of 2 egg?. ' " • ■' spoonfuls of cream, 3 oz. of gn. mesan or Cheshire cheese, 1 oz. o; ^ i; . Mode.—Wash the macaroni, and boil in the gravy and milk until q ' der, without being broken. Drai put it into rather a deep dish. •L''-'''J^l. yolks of tho eggs with the crcnm M^CiS 2 tablespoonfuls of the liquor tl roni was boiled in ; make this su;. hot to thicken, but do not allow it i i boil; pour it over tho m.acaro'.r. t which sprinkle tho grated cheese butter broken into small pieces ; with a salamander, or before the serve. Time.—I to l.J hour to i macaroni, 5 minutes to thicken tho< and cre^mi, 5 minutes to brown. Ai cost. Is. 2d.. Si'ftc{e7it for 3 or 4 person Seasonable at my time. crsoB t