853 Tfil2 DlCTiONAllY Of COOEEHY. Veal, Stewed Breast of, and Peas they are entirely divided, the rib-bones should be carved in the direction of the lines 6 to 6 ; and the brisket can be helped by cutting pieces m the direction SBBi.ST OV VSiXi. 3 to 4, The carver should ask the guests whether they have a preference for the brisket or ribs; and if there be a sweetbread served with the dish, as it often is with roast breast of veal, each pei'son should receive a piece. VEAL, Stewed Breast of, and Peas. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, 2 oz. of butter, a bunch of savoury herbs, in- cluding parsley; 2 blades of pouuded mace, 2 cloves, 5 or 6 young onions, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 6 allspice, \ tea- spoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonlul of salt, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 2 tablespoon- fuls of tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonfid of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, green peas. Mode.—Cut the breast in half, after removing the bone underneath, and divide the meat into convenient-sized pieces. Put the butter into a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of veal, and fry until of a nice brown co- lour. Now place these in a stewpan with the herbs, mace, cloves, onions, lemon- peel, allspice, and seasoning; pour over them just sufficient boiling water to cover the meat; well close the lid, and let the whole simmer very gently for about 2 hours. Strain off as much gi'avy tts is required, thicken it with butter and flour, add the remaining ingredients, skim well, let it simmer for about 10 minutes, then pour it over the meat. Have ready somo green peas, boiled separately ; sprinkle these over the veal, and serve. It may bo garnished with forcemeat balls, or rashers of bacon curled and fried. Instead of cutting up the meat, many persons prefer it dressed whole ; — in that case it should bo half- roasted before the water, &c. are put to it. Time.—2\howY3. Avera(;: cost, S},d. Sufficient for 6 or G persons. Ccasnndble from lilarch to October. Veal, Curried VEAL, la Bourgeoise (Excellent). Ingredients.—2 to 3 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 10 or 12 young carrots, b bunch of green onions, 2 slices of lean bacon, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a few new potatoes, 1 pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, trim them, and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter ; lay in the cutlets and fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. Add the bacon, carrots, onions, spice, herbs, and season- ing ; pour in about a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours on a very slow fire. When done, skim off the fat, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with a little tomato sauce and ketchup. Have ready the peas and potatoes, boiled separately; put them with the veal, and serve. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 9cZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from June to August with peas; — rather earlier when these are omitted. VEAL CAKE (a Convenient Dish for a Picnic). Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 2 hard- boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a little pepper, good gravy. Mode.—Cut off all the brown outside from the veal, and cut the eggs into slices. Procure a pretty mould ; lay veal, ham, eggs, and parsley in layers, with a little pepper between each, and when the mould is full, get some strong stock, and fill up the shape. Bake for h hour, and when cold, tuim it out. Time.—^ hour. Seasonable at any time. VEAL, Curried (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Hhs, remains of cold roast veal, 4 onions, 2 apples sliced, 1 table- spoonful of curry-powder, 1 dessertspoon, ful of flour, I pint of broth or water, 1 tablespoon ful of lemon-juice. Mode, —Slice the onions and apples, and frj them in a little butter ; then take then out, cut the meat into neat cutlets, and fry these of a pale brown :, add the curry- powder and flour, put in the onion, apples, and a little liroth or water, and stew gently till quite tender; add tne lomon-jnice, and serve with an edging of 12