iii Boutine of Hoasehold Works and Ways. tray, accompanied by tea-cloths; the mistress then proceeds to wash up the nps, saucers, &c., dries and places them upon a tray, the servant carrying them o their places. This custom is a relic of the old Puritan system of orderly ;ork, and is not as general as could be desired ; but some mistresses still wash ip the breakfast things in order to leave the maid time to get on with her ipstairs duties. 10. The first Duty of the mistress after breakfast is to give her orders for Le day, and she naturally begins with the cook. 11. Ox ENTERING THE KiTCUEN, invariably say, "Good morning, cook" (a curtesy much appreciated below stairs), go into the larder—do not give a mere ;lance, careless or nervous, as the case may be, but examine every article there ; lever let anything that displeases your neat eye pass; it is much easier to ioiTCct as you go along, than to overburden a maid with directions or repri- nandb. Do not allow any shy fear of strangers, as new servants of course are, 0 interfere with the careful discharge of your duty as a wife and mistress of ■he household. Look in the bread-pan and see that there is no waste. After all oints a good basin of dripping o^^ght to be in the larder. 12. In ordering Dinner it is best to write down what you intend having; f ( r nstancc, one o'clock dinner, " Cold beef, potatoes, greens, apple pudding;" sit seven or eight) o'clock dinner, " Julieune soup, fish, roast fowl, gravy, bread auce, boiled bacon, browned potatoes, spinach, plum tart, custard pudding." 13. Another good result from writing down the dinner; it keeps both mistress md cook up to the mark in seeing that every proper accompaniment to a dish s served with it. 11. The Cook then knows exactly what she has to prepare, and the order-book s a useful check on butcher, grocer, and gi-eengrocer. 15. If a Lady is content to order daily what is wanted, she will not have the jxcellent dinners obtained by a little forethought. Few butchers can be relied on ;o send meat in prime condition for roasting; there are but few weeks in England rvhen it is not safe to hang meat; in autumn mutton will often hang for eight lays, in winter fourteen or twenty-one will not be too long. A good housekeeper ivill always arrange so as to have a joint or two hanging in the winter, and one ioint hanging nearly always. The day decided on for cooking a leg of mutton, )rder another in for hanging. 16. Wbll-hung Meat " goes further " than hard frcih meat; and does credit to buyer and cook. 17. If a Mistress devote careful thought to her dinners for servants and ausband she is doing her best to keep the health of her household.