Iviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. will bo very little trouble, but they should be carefully dusted afterwards. She will then take up the stand, and place it in the hall in a convenient position, then collect on her tray all the things she will require for laying the table. 372. This will, of course, depend upon the nature of the meal and the number of persons to partake of it. Supposing, then, the dinner to consist of soup, fish, a roast joint, potatoes, vegetables, and a sweet dish, and, as at breakfast, four persons to sit down to table, she will require— 4 Knives. 4 Small knives. 4 Fish knives. 4 Forks. 4 Small forks. 4 Fish forks. 1 Carving knife and fork. 1 Small knil'e and fork for cutting the tart. 1 Fish slice. 1 Pair of knife I'ests. 4 Soup-spoons. 4 Dessert-spoons. 4 Tablespoons. 1 Gravy-spoon. 1 Soup, ladle. 4 Plates. 4 Napkins. 2 Salt-cellars. The cruet-stand. The tablecloth. 4 Tumblers. 4 Sherry glasses. 4 Clarec glasses. 373. She should place the tray on the stand in the hall, or, if the dining-room be large, the stand and tray may be put in a convenient position there, and then proceed to— LAY THE DINWEK-TABLE. 374. She should first spread the cloth, doing it very carefully so as not to crumple or wrinkle it; it should be quite even, an equal length hanging down at the top and bottom of the table and at the sides. 375. She should then put round to each person's place one large, one small, and one fish knife ; then one large, one small, and one fish fork ; leaving a space between the knives and the forks for the plates, and the knives being at the right hand and the forks at the left of the space. Then the carving knives and forks at the master's place at the head of the table ; next his own knives and forks, the rests in front of them. Then a soup-spoon to each person next the knives ; the soup-ladle and gravy-spoon at the master's place, lengthways in front of where the dishes will stand; the fish-slice next to the carving-knives, and the four tablespoons crossways at the right-hand comers. 37G. Then to each person's place a plate in the space between the knives and the forks—these are to rest the soup-plates upon—and on each plate a napkin neatly folded or else rolled in a ring. 377. Tlicn to each person a tumbler, a sherry gloss, and a claret glass. These at the right hand side, close to tholinivos, but not too close.