HUE DlCTlONAHY Ol^ COOKEUY. 289 Eice Pudding, Baked mrning; sweeten it, add a little grated lutraeg, aud serve. This dish is also 'ery suitable and wholesome for chil- Iren ; it may be flavoured with a little emon-peel, and a little finely-minccd uct may be boiled with it, which renders t more strengthening and more whole- ome. Tapioca, semolina, vermicelli, nd macaroni, may all be dressed in the ame manner. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour. Reasonable at any time. nCE PUDDIWG, Baked. Ingredients.—1 small teacupful of rice, eggs, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of fresh but- er, 2 oz. of beef man-ow, 5 lb. of cur- ants, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, nutmeg, lb. of sugar, the rind of ^ lemon. \fode.—Put the lemon-rind and milk iito a stewpan, and let it infuse till the Qilk is well flavoured with the lemon ; a the mean time, boil the rice until ender in water, with a very small quan- ity of salt, and, when done, lot it be horoughly drained. Beat the eggs, tir to them the milk, which should e strained, the butter, marrow, cur- ants, and remaining ingredients ; add he rice, and mix all well together. Line he edges of the dish with puff-paste, ut in the pudding, and bake for about hour in a slow oven. Slices of candied- eel may be added at pleasure, or Sultana lisins may be substituted for the cur- mts. Tivie.—5 hour. Average cost, ?. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. easonahle for a winter pudding, when •esh fruits are not obtainable. IICE PUDDING-, Baked (Plain and Economical; a nice Pudding for Children). Ingredients.—1 teacupful of rice, 2 iblespoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 quart of lilk, h oz. of butter or two small table- )Oonfuls of chopped suet, h teaspoonful !' grated nutmeg, il/orfe.—Wash the ce, put it into a pic-dish with the sugar, our in the milk, and stir these ingre- ients well together; then add the lUtcr cut up into varv small pieces, or, istcad of this, the above proportion of iiely-minccd suet; gi-ate a little nutmeg lor the top, and bake the pudding, in a oderate oven, from 1 i to 2 hours. As le rice is not previously cooked, care nst bo taken that the pudding be very owly baked, to give plenty of time for le rice to swell, aud for it to. bo very Rice Pudding, Boiled thoroughly done. Time.—11 to 2 hours. Average cost, Id. Siifficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. ^ EICE PUDDING, Plain Boiled. Ingredients.—h lb. of rice. Mode- Wash the rice, tie it in a pudding-cloth, allowing room for the rice to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water; boil it gently for two hours, and if, after a time, the cloth seems tied too loosely, take the rice up aud tighten the cloth. Serve with sweet melted butter, or cold butter and sugar, or stewed fruit, jam, or marmalade, any of which accompani- ments are suitable for plain boiled rice. Time.—2 hours after the water boils. Average cost, 2d. Sufficient ior 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, BoUed. Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1^ pint of new milk, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, ^ salt- spoonful of salt, 4 large tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Stew the rice very gently in the above proportion of new milk, and, when it is tendei', pour it into a basin ; stir in the butter, and let it stand to cool; then beat the eggs, add these to the rice with the sugar, salt, and any flavouring that may be approved, such as nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, essence of bitter-almonds, or vanilla. When all is well stirred, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 1^ hour. Time.— labour. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, Boiled (with Dried or Fresh. Fruit; a nice Dish for the Nursery). Ingredients.—J lb. of rice, 1 pint of any kind of fresn fruit that may be pre- ferred, or i lb of raisins or currants. Mode.—Wash the rice, tie it in a cloth, allowing room for it to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water; let it boil for an hour, then take it up, untie the cloth, stir in the fruit, and tie it up again tolerably tight, and put it into the water for the remainder of the time. Boil for another hour, or rather longer, and serve with sweet sauce if made with dried fruit, and with plain sifted sugar if made with 10