254, THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Pineapple, Preserved away in a dry place. Time.—h hour to boil the fruit. Average cost, lOtZ. to Is. per lb. pot. Seasonable,—Foreign pines, in July and August. PINEAPPLE, Preserved, for pre- sent use. Ingredients.—Pineapple, sugar, water. Mode.—Cut the pine into slices ^ inch in thickness; peel them, and remove the hard part from the middle. Put the parings and hard pieces into a stewpan, ■with sufficient water to cover them, and boil for I hour. Strain the liquor, and put in the slices of pine. Stew them for 10 minutes, add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely, and boil again for another | hour ; skim well, and the Eresei-ve will be ready for use. It must e eaten soon, as it will keep but a very short time. Time.—| hour to boil the parings in water ; 10 minutes to boil the pine without sugar, \ hour with sugar. Average cost.—Foreign pines, Is. to Zs. each ; English, from 2s. to 12s. per lb. Seasonable.—Foreign, in July and Au- gust ; English, all the year. PIPPINS, Normandy, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 lb. of Norjiandy pip- pins, 1 quart of water, ^ teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, i tea=poonful of 8:round ginger, 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lemon. Mode.—Well wash tht pippins, and put them into 1 quart of water with the above proportion of cinnamon and ginger, and let them stand 12 hours; then put these all together into a stew- Ean, with the lemon sliced thinly, and alf the moist sugar. Let them boil slowly until the pippins are half done; then add the remainder of the sugar, and simmer until they are quite tender. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time. —2 to 3 hours. Average cost, Is. Qd. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. PLAICE, Fried. Ingredients. — Hot lard, or clarified dripping ; egg and bread crumbs. Mode.—This fish is fried in the same manner as soles. Wash and wipe them thoroughly dry, and let them remain in a cloth until it is time to di'ess them. Brush them over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry of a nice brown in hot drip- ping or lard, and garnish with fried v'm » Plovers, to Dress sley and cut lemon. Send them to tal with shrimp-sauce and plain melt butter. Time.—About 5 minutes. A rage cost, dd. each. Seasonalle frc May to November. Sufficient, 4 pla: for 4 persons. Note.—Plaice may be boiled pla and served with melted butter. (Jarn; with parsley and cut lemon, PLAICE, Stewed. Ingredients.—4 or 5 plaice, 2 onio ^ oz. ground ginger, 1 pint of lem- juice, I pint water, 6 oggs; cayenne taste. Mode.—Cut the fish into pie about 2 inches wide, salt them, and them remain I hour. Slice and fry 11 onions a light brown; put them ii stewpan, on the top of which put • ■ fish without washing, and add theginp lemon-juice, and water. Cook slo' for ^ hour, and do not let the fish b , or it will break. Take it out, and wl. the.liquor is cool, add 6 well-beaten eg; simmer till it thickens, when pour O' i the fish, and serve. Time.—^ he Average cost for this quantity. Is. Seasonable from May to Novemla Sxifficient for 4 or 5 persons; acoordinf. the size of the fish. PLOVEHS, to Carve. Plovers may be car^'ed like quaili! woodcock, being trussed and servefr. the same way as those birds. PLOVEHS, to Dress. Ingredients.—3 plovers, butter, fl( toasted bread. Choosing and Truss —Choose those that feel hard at the y> as that shows their fatness. There three sorts,—the grey, green, and 1 tard plover, or l.ipwing. They will k good for some time, but if very st the feet will be very diy. Plo\ cr> scarcely fit for anj'thing but ro >;i they are, however, sometimes Etcwcc made into a rago6t, but this mod< cooking is not to be rccommem Mode.—Pluck off the feathers, ^ the outside of the birds with a d: cloth, and do not draw them ; truss i the head under the wing, put the ^ <i to a clear fire, and lay slices of nii ti toast in the dripping-pan, to c:ri!i trail. Keep them kcII baftfd, 'i' them lightly with flour a few i before they ai'e done, And let tb-^u