THE IDiO^lONARY OF COOKERY. 235 Parsnips, Boiled immediately Time.—2 hours. Ave7-affe cost, 6d. par quart. Seasonable from October to April. Sufficient for 4 per- EOUS. PAESWIPS, Boiled. Ingredients.—Parsnips ; to each h gal- lon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt. Mode. — Wash the parsnips, scrape them thoroughly, and with the point of the knife remove any black specks about them, and, should they be very large, cut tho thick j^art into quarters. Put them into a sauce- pan of boiling water salted in the above proportion, boil them rapidly untU tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork in them; take them up, drain them, and serve in a vegetable-dish. This vegetable is usually served with salt fish, boiled pork, or boiled beef : when sent to table with tho latter, a few should be placed alternately with carrots round the dish as a garnish. Time.—Large pars- nips, 1 to 1| hour; small ones, ^ to 1 hour. Average cost,\d.e&tih.. Sufficient. —Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable from October to May. PARTRIDGE, Broiled (a Lunch- eon, Breakfast, or Supper Dish). Ingredients.—3 partridges, salt and cayenne to taste, a small piece of buttei', brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Mode. —Pluck, draw, and cut the partridges in half, and wipe the inside thoroughly with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne, broil them over a very clear fire, and dish them on a hot dish ; rub a small piece of butter over each half, and send them to table with brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Time.— About \ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient for 3 or four per- sons. Seasonable from the 1st of Sep- tember to the beginning of February. PARTRIDGE PIE. Ingredients.—3 partridges, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley (when obtainable, a few mush- roomi), I lb. of veal cutlet, a slice of ham, i pint of stock, pufF paste. Mode. —Line a pie-dish with a veal cutlet; over that place a slice of ham and a sea- soning of popper and salt. Pluck, draw, and wipe tho partridges ; cut off the logs at the first joint, and season them inside Partridge, Boast with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a small piece of butter ; place them in the dish, and pour over the stock ; line the edges of the dish with puff paste, cover with the same, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake for f to 1 hour. Time.— f to 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. Note.—Should tho partridges be very large, split them in half, they will then lie in the dish more compactly. When at hand, a few mushrooms should always be added. PARTRIDGE, Potted. Ingredients. — Partridges ; seasoning to taste of mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt; butter, coarse paste. Mode. —Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them inside with a damp cloth. Pound well some mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt; mix together, and rub every part of the partridges with this. Paclc the birds as closely as possible in a baking-pan, with plenty of butter over them, and cover with a coarse flour and water crust. Tie a paper over this, and bake for rather more than 1| hour; let the birds get cold, then cut them into pieces for keeping, pack them closely into a largo potting-pot, and cover with clarified butter. This should be kept in a cool dry place. The butter used for potted things will answer for basting, or for paste for meat pies. Time.—Ih hour. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. PARTRIDGE, Roast. Ingredients. — Partridge; butter. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose young birds, with dark-coloured bills and yellowish legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no flavour to tho HOAST PAETBIDGH, flcsli, nor will it be tender. The time they should be kept entirely depends on the taste of those for whom thoy are intended, as what some persons would consider delicious would be to othern