191 THE DICTIONARY OF C00KER7, Marrow-bones, Boiled. • ' MABHOW-BONES, Boiled. Ingredients.—Bones, a small pioco of common paste, a floured cloth. Made.— Have the bones neatly sawed into con- venient sizes, and cover the ends with a email piece of common crust, made with flour and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place the bones upright in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care there is sufficient to cover them. Boil them for 2 hours, remove the cloth and paste, and serve them upright on a nap- kin with dry toast. Many persons clear the marrow from the bones after they are cooked, spread it over a slice of tbast and add a seasoning of pepper: ••jwh^ji served in this manner, it must be veiy expeditiously sent to table, as it §o soon gets cold. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable at any time. Note.— Man'ow-bones may bo baked after preparing them as in the pi'cceding - I'ecipo; they should be laid in a deep dish, and baked for 2 hours. • MAHBOW DUMPLINGS, tq serve with Boast Meat, in Soup, with. Salad, &c. (German liccipe.) Ingredients.—1 oz. of beef marrow, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 2 penny rolls, 1 teaspoonful of minced onion, 1 tea- spoonful of minced parsley, salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the marrow and butter together to a cream; well whisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When. they are well stirred, put in the rolls, which should previously be well soaked in boiling milk, strained, and beaten up with a fork. Add the remaining ingre- dients, omitting the minced onion where the flavour is very much dislik&d, and form the mixture into small round dump- lings. Drop these into boiling broth, and let them simmer for about 20 minutes cr A hour. They may be served in soup, witii roast moat, or with salad, as in Germany, where they are more frequently gent to table than in this country. They nro very good. Time.—20 minutes to fi hour. Avei'age cost, 6d. Svfficie7it for f or 3 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. MABBOW PUDDING-, Baked or Boiled. Ingredients.—pint of bread crumbs, pint of milk, "6 oz. of marrow, 4 eggs, May-Bills of Faro ' I lb. of raisins oi*- currantj, or 2 oj each ; sugar and grated nutmeg to t« Mode.—Make the milk boiling, pom hot on to tho bread crumbs, and lettb remain covdred for about i hour; drj the marrow, beat up the eggs, andl these with the bread crun>bs; adfill remaining ingredients,* beat the mirfi well, and either put it into a biitta moiiltkand boil it forfiA hou^s, or \ n\ into a pie-dish edged with puff-paste, ^ bakorfor rather more than i hour, scQdinglt to table, sift a little'pouncj sugar over, after being turned out of' inoijd or basin. Time.—2i hours ,boil, I hour to bakcj,, \iverage'<;(>st, h.; Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season^ at any time. . » •< . ^ ■. ■ ■ . : .■- itATT-BILLS OF PAEa"* Dinner fpr 18 persons. / y I'irst Course. CO ;2j Aeparagas Soup, removed by Salmon and Lobster Sauce. Vase of Flowers. Ox-tail Soup, removed by Brill & Shrimp Sauce. Entrees. o Si a Lamb Cutlets and Cuciunbers. Vase of Flowers, Teal Eagoi\t. o t s O Second Course. Saddle of Lsmb. o liaised Pie. g Vase of »^ o Flowers. Braised Ilam. Eoast Vetl.