THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEUT. 83 Beef, Fried Salt inkle over them a seasoning of pepper 1 salt, mixed with cloves, mace, and spice, well pounded. Lard the beef with se, put it into a stewpan with the stock vater, sherry, herbs, shalots, 2 cloves, I more pepper and salt. Stew the m eat itly until tender, when take it out, er it closely, slum off all the fat from gravy, and strain it. Set it on fire, and boil, till it becomes a glaze, ze the larded side of the beef with this, , sen'e on sorrel sauce, which is ie as follows :—Wash and pick some ■el, and put it into a stewpan with T the water that hangs about it. Keep ring, to prevent its burning, and when B, lay it in a sieve to drain. Chop it, ' stew it with a small piece of butter 14 or 5 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, in hour, and rub it through a sieve. ID acid, add sugar ; a little cabbago- ice boiled with the sorrel will be .d an improvement. Time.—2 hours ently stew the meat. Average cost, this quantity, is. Svfficient for 6 ons. Seasonable at any time. EF, Fried Salt. 'i-D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients, vf slices of cold salt beef, pepper to h lb. of butter, mashed potatoes. — Cut any part of cold salt beef I' n slices, fry them gently in butter, ason with a little pepper. Have some veij hot mashed potatoes, slices of beef on them, and garnish or 4 pickled gherkins. Cold salt 'armed in a little liquor from mixed drained, and served as above, will id good. Time.—About 5 minutes. '« cost, exclusive of the meat, 4,d. T^le at any time. !" FBITTERS. D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. rem8,ins of cold roast beef, pepper It to taste, If lb. of flour, i pint of 2 oz. of butter, the whites of i. Mode.—Mix very smoothly, y degrees, the flour with the above tion of water ; stir in 2 oz. of but- lich must be melted but not oiled, ist before it is to bo used, add the of two well-whisked eggs. Should tter bo too thick, more water must ed. Pare down the cold beef into ireds, soa,son with pepper and salt, ix it with the batter. Drop a quantity at a time into a pan of Beef, Hashed boiling lai-d, and fry from 7 to 10 mi- nutes, according to the size. When done on one side, turn and brown them on the other. Let them dry for a minute or two before the fire, and serve on a folded napkin. A small quantity of finely-miu'ied onions, n-ixod with the batter, is an improvement. Time. — From 7 to 10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. ScasonaLl at any time. BEEF, Haslied. [Cold Meat Cookery. 1.] Ingredients. —Gravy saved from the meat, 1 teaspoon* ful of tomato sauce, one teaspoonf ul ' Harvey's sauce, one teaspoonl'ul of goot' mushroom ketchup, h glass of port wine or strong ale, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour to thicken, 1 onion finely minced, a few slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Put all the ingredients but the beef into a stewpan with whatever gravy may have been savedfrom the meat the day it was roasted; simmer these gently for 10 minutes, then take the stewpan off the fire ; let the gravy cool and skim off the fat. Cut the beef into thin slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the gravy; let the whole simmer gently for 5 minutes, but not boil, or the meat will be tough and hard. Serve very hot, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time. — 20 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4id. Seasonable at any time. [ColdMeat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. —The remains of ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 1 bunch of sav(;ury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, h blade of pounded mace, thickening of" flour, rather more than 1 pint cf water. J/oc?e.—Take off all the meat from the bones of ribs or sirloin of beef; remova. the outside brown and gristle; place the meat on one side, and well stew the bones and pieces, with the above ingredients, for about 2 hours, till it becomes a strong gravy, and is reduced to rather more than h pint; strain this, thicken with a toaspoonful of flour, and let the gravy cool; skim off all the fat; lay in the meat, let it got hot through, but do not allow it to boil; and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The gi-avy should be flavoured as in the preceding recipe. Time. — llalhor more th;m ll hours. Average cost, exclusive of tho cold moat, Gd. SeasonabU at any time. 2