xlvU Laying the Breakfast-Table. famUy. In the present instance we will suppose it to be four, therefore she will first collect on her tray and take upstairs— The tablecloth. 4 Napkins. 4 Breakfast cups and saucers. 4 Large plates. 4 Smaller plates. The teapot-stand. 4 Large knives, 4 Small knives. The bread-knife. The butter-knife. 4 Forks. 1 Largo carving knife and fork. 1 Smaller carving knife and fork. 4 Teaspoons. 1 Dessert spoon. The cruet-stand. 2 Salt-cellars. 2 Pairs of knife-rests. The slop-basin. In placing these on the tray, she should be careful to lot the tablecloth and napkins intervene between the china and the other things. She should place the tray on the stand outside the parlour-door, putting it in a convenient position so that she can easily pass in and out. She should first spread the cloth, doing it very carefully so as to avoid creasing it, keeping it quite straight, and an equal length hanging down at each end and at the sides. 297. She should then place at the head of the table—the mistress's place—the teapot-stand. In front of that the cups and saucers, ai-ranged in a double row, room being left between them and the edge of the table for the mistress's plate. Then the slop-basin at the left-hand side of the cups and saucers. The smaller plates should then be put round the table, one at each person's place, a napkin on each; they should be near the edge, but not near enough to be in danger of falK/ig off. One large and one small knife should be j)ut at the right hand side of each plate, a fork at the left hand side. The small carving knife and fork should be put at the foot of the table—the master's place ; next his own knife and fork; one pair of rests in front of them. The large carving knife and fork should be put on the sideboard with the other rests, the four large plates should be put there also. The cruet-stand should be placed in the centre of the table ; the bread-knife at one side, the butter-knife at the other ; one salt-cellar at the right-hand top corner, the other at the right-hand bottom corner ; the dessert-spoon should be placed on the plate with the marmalade or honey when it is taken from the cellaret. A table-mat should be placed before the master's place. 298. All these things should be scrupulously clean an^\free from dust; the mustard-pot should be half-filled with fresh mustard, and the salt-cellars supplied yith fine table-salt. 299. Having put all these things on, she should fetch up from the pantry— The cold meat—on a clean dish. The bread on the bread-plate or in the bread-basket. The butter in the butter-dish. The milk in the milk-jug, .^Vie cream in the cream-cwor.