THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 85 Co-w-Heel, Fried honey ; such as oranges, apricots, pears, KG. 4. Jellies are the juices of fruits boiled with sugar to a pretty thick con- sistency, so as, upon cooling, to form a trembling jelly ; as currant, gooseberry, apple jelly, &c. 5. Conserves are a kind of dry conf'ects, made by beating up flowers, fruits, &c., with sugar, not dis- solved. 6. Candies are fruits candied over with sugar after having been boiled in the syrup. COW-HEEL, Fried. Ingredients. — Ox-feet, the yolk of 1 egg, bread crumbs, parsley, salt and cayenne to taste, boiling butter. Mode. —"Wash, scald, and thoroughly clean the feet, and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long ; have i-eady some fine bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsloj', cayenne, and salt; dip the pieces of heel into the yolk of egg, sprinkle them with the bread crumbs, and fry them until of a nice brown in boiling butter. Time.—,| hour. Average cost, &d. each. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Ox-feet may bo dressed in va- rious ways, stewed in gravj-^ or plainly boiled and served with melted butter. When plainly boiled, the liquor will an- swer for making sweet or relishing jel- lies, and also to give richness to soups or gravies. COW-HEEL STOCK, for Jelliea (More Economical than Calf's- Feet). Ingredients.—2 cow-heels, 3 quarts of water, ilode. — Procure 2 heels that have only been scalded, and not boiled ; split them in two, and remove the fat between the claws; wash them well in warm water, and put them into a sauce- pan with the abovo proportion of cold water; bring it gradually to boil, re- move all the scum as it rises, and simmer the heels gently from 7 to 8 hours, or until the liquor is reduced one-half; then strain it into a basin, measuring the quan- tity, and put it in a cool place. Clarify it in the same manner as calfs-fect stock, using, with the otlicr ingredients, about h 07.. of isinglass to each quart. This Htock should be made the day before it is required for use. Two dozen shank- bones of mutton, boiled for 6 or 7 hours, yield a quart of strong firm stock. They should bo put on in 2 quarts of water, which should bo reduced one-half. Make Crab, Hot this also the day before it is required. Time. —7 to 8 hours to boil the cow-heels, 6 to 7 hours to boil the shank-bones. Average cost, from Ad. to Gd. each. Suf ficient.—2 cow-heels should make 3 pints of stock. Seasonalle at any time. COWSLIP WINE, Ingredients.—To every gallon of water allow 3 lbs. of lump sugar, the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, the rind and juice of 1 Seville orange, 1 gallon of cow- slip pips. To every 4^ gallons of wine allow 1 bottle of brandy. Mode.—Boil the stigar and water together for h hour, carefully removing all the scum as it rises. Pour this boiling liquor on the orange and lemon-rinds and the juice, which should be strained; when milk- warm, add the cowslip pips or flowers, picked from the stalks and seeds; and to 9 gallons of wine 3 tablespoonfuls of good fresh brewers' yeast. Let it fer- ment 3 or 4 days, then put all together in a cask with the brandy, and let it remain for 2 months, when bottle it ofif for use. Time.—To be boiled I hour ; to ferment 3 or 4 days ; to remain in the cask 2 months. Average cost, exclusive of the cowslips, which may be picked in the fields, 26-. M. per gallon. Seasonable. Make this in April or May. CRAB, to Choose, The middlc-siucd crab is the best; and the crab, like the lobster, should be judged by its weight; for if light, it is watery, CRAB, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 crab, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 ditto of oil; salt, whito pepper, and cayenne, to taste. Mode.— Empty the shells, and thoroughly mix the meat with tho above ingredients, and put it in the large shell. Garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley. The quantity of oil may be increased when it is much liked. Average cost, from 30c?. to 2s. Seasonalle all the year ; but not so good in May, June, and J uly. Sufficient for 3 persons. CRAB, Hot. Ingredients.—1 crab, nutmeg, flalt and opper to taste, 3 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of read crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar. Mode. — After having boilod the E