THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 233 Pancakes cream. PANCAKES. Ingredients.—Eggs, flour, milk; to every egg allow 1 oz. of flour, about 1 gill of milk, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode. —Ascertaia that the eggs are fresh; Dreak each one separately in a cup; whisk them well, put them into a basin, with the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, and beat the whole to a perfectly SMOoth batter; then add by degrees the remainder of the milk. The proportion of this latter ingredient must be regu- lated by the size of the eggs, &;c. &c. ; but the batter, when ready for frying, should be of the consistency of thick Place a small frying-pan on the tire to get hot; let it be deli- cately clean, or the pan- cakes will PANCAKES. g^.^j^^ ^^^^ when quite hot, put into it a small piece of butter, allowing about ^ oz. to each pancake. When it is melted, pour in the batter, about ^ teacupful to a pan 5 inches in diameter, and fry it for about 4 minutes, or until it is nicely brown on one side. By only pouring in a small quantity of batter, and so making the pancakes thin, the necessity of turn- ing them (an operation rather difficult to unskilful cooks) is obviated. When the pancake is done, sprinkle over it some pounded sugar, roll it up in the pan, and take it out with a large slice, and place it on a dish before the fire. Proceed in this manner until sufficient are cooked for a dish; then send them quickly to table, and continue to send in a further quantity, as pancakes are never good unless eaten almost immediately they come from the frying-pan. The batter may be flavoured with a little grated lemon-rind, or the pancakes may have preserve rolled in them instead of sugar. Bond sifted sugar and a cut lemon to table with them. To render the pan- cakes vci-y light, the yolks and whites of the eggs should be beaten separately, and the whites added the last thing to the batter before frying. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes for a pancake that does not require turning ; from 6 to 8 minutes for a thicker one. Average cost for 3 persons, Qd. Sxifficient.—Allow 3 eggs, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 3 persons. SeasonaUe at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. Pan Kail PANCAKES. Ingredients.—Q eggs, 1 pint of cream, \ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 glass of sherry, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, flour. Mode.—Ascertain that the eggs are ex- tromely fresh, beat them well, strain and mix with them the cream, pounded sugar, wine, nutmeg, and as much flour as will make the batter nearly as thick as that for ordinary pancakes. Make the frying- pan hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in sufficient batter to make a thin pan- cake, and fry it for about 5 minutes. Dish the pancakes piled one above the other, strew sifted sugar between each, and serve. Time.—About 5 minutes. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. M. Sufficient to make 8 pancakes. SeasonaUe at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. PANCAKES, French. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 2 oz. of flour, h pint of new milk. Mode.—Beat the egga thoroughly, and put them into a basin with the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; stir in the sugar and floui, and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the milk ; keep stirring and beating the mixture for a few minutes ; put it on buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, with a layer of preserve or marmalade between each. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. PANCAKES, Snow. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of snow, about A pint of new milk. Mode,—Mix the flour with the milk by degrees, add the egg well beaten, and just before frying, the snow, it should then be all beaten up together quickly, and put into the frying- pan immediately. Sufficient for 8 pan* cakes. PAN KAIL. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cabbage, or Savoy greens ; \ lb. of butter or dripping, salt and pepper to taste, oatmeal for thickening, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—- Chop the cabbage very fine, thicken tho water with oatmeal, put in the cabbago