THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 163 January—Bills of Fare Second Course. Eoast Turkey. oilod T' Celery Pigeon Pie. 8 Vase of w a Flowers. o Tongue, garnished. 'o M Saddle of Mutton. r/iiVcZ Course, p. Pheasants, B p* o removed by >-3 ^ p r<. ^ Plum-Pudding. )tte Bien Jelly. <) o ? 3 Vase of § g Flowers. g P O Jelly. o a Snipes, removed by Maids of Hono to o • <B Pommes a la Cond^. [Jiniier for 12 persons. First Course.—Carrot soup ilia Cr€cy ; «-tail soup ; turbot and lobster sauce ; ried smelts, with Dutch sauce. Entrees. Hutton cutlets, with Soubise sauce; iweetbroads ; oyster patties ; fillets of 'abbits. Second Course. —Roast turkey; tewed rump of beef h, la jardiniere; )oiled ham, garnished with Brussels iprouts ; boiled chickens and celery laiice. Third Course.—Roast hare; teal; (ggs h. la neige; vol-au-vent of preserved niit; 1 j' tly; 1 cream ; potatoes k la naltre d'hfitel; grilled mushrooms; lesserb and ices. Jinner for 10 persons. First Course. - Soup h. la Reine ; whit- ngs au gratin ; crimped cod and oyster auce. Eh tries. — Tendrons de vcau ; (urriftd fowl and boiled rice. Second Toitiw.—Turkey, stuffed with chestnuts, ;nd chestnut sauce ; boiled leg of mut- on, Enjflish fashion, with caper sauce nd mashed tumipflt Third Course.— Woodcocks or partridges; widgeon; January—Bills of Fare Charlotte k la vauille ; cabinet p\idding ; orange jelly; blancmange; artichoke liot- toms ; macaroni, with Parmesan cheese; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny sotip ; brill and shrimp sauce ; fried whitings. Entrees.—Fricasseed chicken ; pork cut- lets, with tomato sauce. Second Course.— Haunch of mutton; boiled turkey and celery sauce; boiled tongue, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.— Roast pheasants ; meringues k la crfeme ; comp6te of npples ; orange jelly ; cheese- cakes ; souSid of rice ; dessert and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup ; soles h la Normandie. Entrees.—Sweetbreads, with sauce piquante; mutton cutlets, with mashed potatoes. Second Course.— Haunch of venison; boiled fowls and bacon, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—Phmi-pudding ; custards in glasses; apple tart; fondue h, la Brillat Savarin; dessert. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; fried slices of codfish and anchovy sauce; John Dory. Entrees. — Stewed rump- steak k la jardinifere ; rissoles ; oyster patties. Second Course.—Leg of mutton; curried rabbit and boiled rice. Third Course.—Partridges; apple fritters ; tart- lets of greengage jam j orange jelly; plum-pudding; dessert. First Course.—Pea-soup ; baked had- dock ; soles h. la creme. Entries.—Mut- ton cutlets and tomato sauce; fricasseed rabbit. Second Coztrse.—Roast pork and apple sauce ; breast of veal, rolled and siuffod ; vegetables. Third Course. — Jugged hare; whipped cream ; blanc- mange ; mince pies ; cabinet pudding. First Course. —Palestine soup ; fried smelts ; stewed eels. Entries. —'Raffotil of lobster; broiled mushrooms; vol au- vent of chicken. Second Course.—Sirloin of beef; boiled fowls and celery sauce; tongue, garnished with Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—Wild ducks; Charlotte aux pommes ; cheesecakes ; transparent jelly, inlaid with brandy cherries ; blano- mange; Nesselrode pudding.