335 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. SUPPER, BILL OF FARE FOR A BALTi, Or a Cold Collation for a Summer Entertainment, or Wedding or Cliris- tening Breakfast for 70 or 80 Persons (July), Dish of Lobster, cut up. Charlotte Kusse a la Vaiiille. Pigeon Pie. Q o ^ O. CO P " £§ O O) P 1-1 ^ In n <B ?■ t/3 «• s z. CO p CO to ^ ® Qj B- -. O P CO n H p to 1 5 n p — C ° re o* o >d Pigeon Pie. " ?5 p re !? re (B 3. re Qj O a> C re a. CD CO Dish of Lobstei", cat up. B3 CO ►1 C 1 « o 1 p Dish of a„„„„ Lobster, Savoj cut up. Tongue. Sibs of Lamb. Two Eoast Fowls. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Veal-and-Ham Pie. 00 p o Epergne, withFlowers. CM hp Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowh and Bechamel Sauce. Collared Eel. Ham. Eaised Pie. Two Eoast Fowls. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Mayonnaise of Salmon. B P (a 3 ° S' C re r ft, Epergne,with Flowers, Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue. Boiled Fowls and Bechamel Sauce, Raised Pie. Ham, decorated. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Two Boast Fowls. Mayonnaise of Saknon. p CO Epergne, with Flowers, Saroy Cake. Dish of Lobster, cut up. CO ^ Pigeon Pie. 05 ^ Dish of Lobster, cut up. Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowls and Bdchamel Sauce, Collared Eel. Char- lotte Eusse a la Tanille. Teal and Ham Pie. Dish of Lobster, cut up. 5 « a P (U n o 0) 0 •c 43 O P< o O K> ail 5" « 3 -a « a o f-. a m CJ 03 CO o —. -a a a gm cQ Cm o QJ d CO tn a o O •^o^e—The length of the page will not admit of our givingthe dishes as they should be plnced on the table ; they thould be arranged with the lurpe and high dishes down the centre and the spaces filled up with the smaUer dishes, fruit, and flowers, taking care that the flavours and colours contrast nicely, and that no two dishes of a sort come tcgclhcr. This bill of faro nmy be made to answer three or four purposes, placing a wedding cake or christening cake in the centre on a high stand, if required for either of these occasions. A few dishes of lowls, lobster salads, &C. &C., should be kept in reserTe to replenish those that are most likely to be eaten trst. A jomt of cold roast and boiled beef should be placed on the Imflct, as being somethinff substantial for the gentlemen of the party to partake of. Besides the articles enumerated in the bill ot tare, biscuits and wafers will bo required, crcam-and-water ices, tea. wllee. wines liqueurs, soda-water, ginger-beer, and lemonade. '