xzii Philosophy of Housekeeping. content herself with domestic duties until she is in a position to have her after- noons, at least, free. Nothing is moro trjing to the health and temper than being constantly called away from domestic duties by frivolous and inconsiderate visitors. 135. With the Care of her CmLDnKX, their dally walks, and the superintendence of their clothing, the mistress will find but little time for assisting the general servant, who will have, in addition to the work we have mentioned, the prepara- tion of the nursery dinner, and the carrying of water, both hot and cold, to the nurseries, with the cleaning and care of the rooms used by the children. THE CHILDREN. 136. The first point to be considered is their Health. Where it is possible, large airy rooms at the top of the house should be given up to the babies. A day and night nursery are required, and the night nursery should be the larger of the two. It should contain single iron beds or cots, placed upon well-scrubbed boards ; a strip of carpet or long rug should be placed at each bedside to enable the little feet to alight from bed safely. Slippers should bekept under each little bed, and the children taught never to go a step without them. The bed should consist of a hard mattress covered with two folds of blanket and a pillow, the ordinary bolster being dispensed with ; of course a pair of sheets and one, two, or three blankets, according to the season. A chair for each child, a washstand, and a hip-bath should constitute the rest of the furniture, though in large rooms a wardrobe and chest of drawers may be placed. Every room occupied by children should have a fireplace and chimney to allow of ventilation during the night. A large window is also requisite. In winter it is well to carpet the bed- room, but this should be removed at the spring cleaning. Once a week at least the bedroom fire should be lighted during the winter. If bedrooms, whether for children or adults, are scrubbed in the winter time, it should be done early in the morning, a good fire lit in the room, and be perfectly dry before being slept in. No flowers of any kind or growing plants should be placed in the bedrooms of children at night. 137. The Children's Day Nursery should also be airy, well-ventilated, and kept perfectly clean. It is well to have as little furniture as possible; a round table and chairs are all that is really wanted if there are good deep cupboards in the room ; if not, an armoire of some kind must be provided for children's toys and nurse's tea and breakfast service, and sundries that should always stand in order under a good nurse's cai-e. On a high shelf, or, better still, locked up, but handy, should be a few simple medicines for children—castor-oil, rhubarb, audi magnesia, and a pot of jam to help these down. Then a box should contain lint, strapping-plaster, and court-plaster ; "Jones's Epsom" is the best, as it neither: inflames a wound nor does it easily wash off. A pair of scissors should be kept' in this box, and never used for other purposes ; a neat roll of old linen, a roll of