THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Damson Cheese brown colour, aud servo tbem on a nap- kin, with custard sauco Uavoured with vanilla, or a compote of any fruit that may bo preferred. Time.—h to ^ hour >br the sponge to rise; 10 to 15 minutes lor the puddings to rise ; 10 minutes to bake them in a brisk oven. Sufficient for 10 or 12 dampfnudeln. Seasonable at any time, DAMSON CHEESE. Ingredients.—Damsons ; to evei7 lb. of fruit pulp allow k lb. of loaf sugar. Mode. •"-I'ick the stalks from the damsons, and f*>\t them into a preserving-pan ; simmer hem over the fire until they are soft, oc- ■oasionally stu-ring them, then beat them ihrough a coarse sieve, and put the pulp •snd juice into the preserving-pan, with swgar in the above proportion, having previously carefully weighed them. Stir the sugar well in, and simmer the dam- Kons slowly for 2 hours. Skim well, then boil the preserve quickly for ^ hour, or until it looks firm and hard in the spoon; put it quickly into shallow pots, or very tiny earthenware moulds, ?.rid, when cold, cover it ^ith oiled papers, and the jars vvitti tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. A few of the stones ma}' be cracked, and the kernels boiled with the damsons, which very much improves the flavour of the cheese. Time.—1 hour to boil the damsons without the sugar ; 2 hours to simmer them slowly, ^ hour quickly. Average cost, from 8cZ. to lOc^. per ^-Yb. pot. Sufficient.—1 pint of damsons to make a very small pot of cheese. Sea- sonable. — Make this in September or October. DAMSON JAM. Ingredients.—Damsons; to every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Have the fruit gathered in dry weather, pick }t over, and reject any that is at all blemished. Stone the damsons, weigh them, and to every lb. allow J lb, of loaf sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into a pre- semng-pan; keep stirrine: them gently \mtil the sugar is dissolved, aud carefully remove the scum as it rises. Boil the jam for about an hour, reckoning from the time it commences to sinnncr all over alike; it must bo well stirred all the time, or it will bo liable to burn and slick >o the pan, which will causo the jam to 4avo a very disagreeable flavour. When Damsons, Baked the jam looks firm, and the juice appears to set, it is done; then take it off the fire, put it into pots, cover it down, when quite cold, with oiled and egged papers, and store it away in a dry place. Time. —1 hour after the jam simmers all over Averarje cost, from Qd. to 8c/. per lb. pot. Siifjicient.—1.^ pint of damsons for a lb. i pot. Seasonable.—Make this in Septom- i ber or October. i DAMSON PUDDING. Ingredients.—1 ^ pint of damsons, \\h. | of moist sugar, 4 lb. of suet or butterr i crust. Mode.—Make a suet crust with, , f lb. of flour by recipe; line a buttered; ^ pudding-basin with a portion of it; fill the basin with the damsons, sweeten, them, and put on the lid; pinch the. , edges of the crust together, that the." juice does not escape ; tie over a floured; cloth, put the pudding into boihng water,. c and boil from 2i to 3 houi-s. Time.— f 2J to 3 hours. Average cost, Sd. Sitffi-- { cient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable im i September and October. ; DAMSON TABT. I Ingredients.—Ih pint of damsons, ^ lb. .1 of moist sugar, h lb. of short or pulf crust. Mode.—Fnt the damsons, with the sugai - between them, into a deep pie-dish, ir i the midst of which place a small cup oi" jar turned upside down; pile the fruil; high in the middle, line the edges of thee dish with short or puff crust, whichever! . may be preferred; put on the cover, or: nament the edges, and bake from ^ to i: hour in a good oven. If puff-crust i! used, abf^'Jt. 10 minutes before the pie i:; done, ta:^? it out of the oven, brush i : over with the white of an egg beaten U a froth with the blade of a knife ; strev ■ some sifted sugar over, and a few drop ; of water, and put the tart back to finisl baking: with short crust, a little plaii sifted sugar, sprinkled over, is all tha will be requii-ed. Time.—h to f hour Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 5 or' persons. Seasonable in September an( October. DAMSONS.Baked.forWinteruse.'' ; Ligrcdienls.—To every it>. of fruit al ' low (j oz. of pounded sugar; melted miit ton suet. Mode.—Chooso sound frviil not too ripe ; pick off the stalks, wcig it, and to every lb. allow the above prei.^