THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 53 Butter, Curled fire, and when it melts, stir it round once or twice, and let it settle. Do not strain it unless absolutely necessary, as it causes so much waste. Pour it gently off into a clean dry jar, carefully leaving all sediment behind. Lot it cool, and carefully exclude the air by means of a bladder, or piece of wash-leather, tied over. If the butter is salt, it may bo washed before melting, when it is to bo used for sweet dishes. T3UTTEH, Curled. Tie a strong cloth by two of the comers to an iron hook in the wall; make a knot with the other two ends, so that a stick might pass through. Put the butter into the cloth; twist it tightly over a dish, into which the butter will fall through the knot, so forming small and pretty little strings. The butter may then be garnished with parsley, if to serve with a cheese course; or it may be sent to table plain for brealcfast, in an ornamental dish. Squirted butter for garnishing hams, salads, eggs, &c., is made by forming a piece of stiff paper in the shape of a cornet, and squeezing the butter in fine string from tho hole at the bottom. Scooped butter is made by dipping a teaspoon or scooper in warm water, and then scooping the butter quickly and thin. In warm weather, it would not be necessary to heat tho spoon. BUTTER, Fairy. Ingredients. — The yolks of 2 hard- boiled eggs, 1 tablespoonful of orange- flower water, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, \ lb. of good fresh butter. Mode. —Beat the yolks of tho eggs smoothly in a mortar, with tho orange-flower water and the sugar, until the whole is reduced to a fine paste; add the butter, and force all through an old but clean cloth by wringing the cloth and squeezing the butter v'ery hard. Tho butter will then drop on the plate in large and small pieces, according to the holes in the cloth. Plain butter may be done in the same manner, and is very quickly pro- pared, besides having a very good efl"ect. BUTTEB, to keep Fresh. Butter may be kept fresh for ton or twelve (lays by a very simple process. Knead it well in cold water till the butter- milk is extracted; then put it in a glazed Butter, Kancid jar, which invert in another, putting into tho latter a sufficient quantity of water to exclude tho air. Kenew tho water every day. BUTTER,' Maltre d'Hotel, for putting into Broiled Fish just- before it is sent to Table. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 2 dessert spoonfuls of minced parsley, salt and pepper to tasto, tho juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.—Work the above ingre- dients well together, and let them ba thoroughly mixed with a wooden spoon. If this is used as a sauce, it may be poured either under or over the meat or fish it is intended to be served with. Average cost, for this quantity, 5d. Note.—4 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, 2 do. of white stock, with 2 oz. of tho above maltre d'hCtel butter stirred into it, and just allowed to simmer for 1 minute, will be found an excellent hot maitre d'hCtel sauce. BUTTER, Melted. Ingredients.—^Ib. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, 1 wineglassful of water, salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the butter up into small pieces, put it into a saucepan, dredge over the flour, and add the water and a seasoning of salt; stir it one way constantly till the whole of the ingre- dients are melted and thoroughly blended. Let it just boil, when it is ready to serve. If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same quantity as of water, but omit tho flour ; keep stirring it, but do not allow it to boil. Time.—l minute to simmer. Avei'oge cost for this quan- tity, id. BUTTER, Melted (more Econo- mical). Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, salt to taste, i pint of water. Mode.—Mix the flour and water to a smooth batter, which put into a saucepan. Add tho butter and a season- ing of salt, keep stirring one vay till aU tho ingredients are melted and perfectly smooth ; let tho whole boil for a minute or two, and serve. Time.—2 minutes to siratner. Average cost for this quan- tity, 2d. BUTTER, Rancid, What to do with. When butter has become very rancid.