115 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eggs, Poached cut away the ragged edges of the white, and sei"ve either on toasted bread or on ^^^•^Z'-^aar^'^:^ slices of ham ^^^^Z^i^^^^^^^^^^ or bacon, or on spinach, &c. A "'"^'^ poached egg EGGS FOACHSD OK TOAST, should not be overdone, as its appearance and taste will be quite spoiled if the yolk be allowed to harden. When the egg is slipped into the water, the white should be gathered together, to keep it a little in form, or the cup should be turned over it for \ minute. To poach an egg to perfection is rather a difficult operation ; so, for inexperienced cooks, a tin egg-poacher may be pur- chased, which greatly facilitates this manner of dressing eggs. Our illustra- tion clearly shows what it is : it consists TIN EGG-POACHEE. of a tin plate with a handle, with a space for throe perforated cups. An egg should be broken into each cup, and the machine then placed in a stewpan of boiling water, which has been previously strained. When the whites oi" the eggs appear set, they are done, and should then be carefully slipped on to the toast or spinach, or with whatever they are served. In poaching eggs in a frying- pan, never do more than four at a time ; and, when a little vinegar is liked mixed with the water in which the eggs are done, use the above proportion. Tim.e.— 2A to 3.3 minutes, according to the size of the egg. SuJJicient.—M\ovf 2 eggs to each person. Seasonable at any time, but less plentiful in winter. EGGS, Poached, with Cream. Incjredients.—l pint of water, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 4 toaspoonfuls of vinegar 4 fresh cgg.s A gill of cream, salt, pepper' and pounded sugar to taste, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Put the water, vinegar, and salt into a fryiug-pan, and break each egg into a separate cup ; bi ing the water, &c,, to boil, and slip the eggs Eggs, Snow gently into it without breaking the yolks. Simmer them from 3 to 4 minutes, but not longer, and, with a slice, lift them out on to a hot dish, and trim the edges. Empty the pan of its contents, put in the cream, add a seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and pounded sugar ; bring the whole to the boiling-point; then add the butter, broken into small pieces ; toss the pan round and round till the butter is melted; pom* it over the eggs, and serve. To insure the eggs not being spoiled whilst the cream, &c. is preparing, it is a good plan to warm the cream with the butter, &c. before the eggs are poached, so that it may be poured over them immediately after they are dished. Time. — 3 to 4 minutes to poach the eggs, 5 minutes to warm the cream, A verage cost for the above quantity, 9d. Sicfficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Scotch. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of forcemeat, hot lard, h pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Boil the eggs for 10 minutes; strip them from the shells, and cover them with forcemeat, or sub- stitute pounded anchovies for the ham. Fry the eggs a nice brown in boiling lard, drain them before the fire from their greasy moisture, dish them, and pour round from ^ to ^ pint of good brown gravy. To enhance the appear- ance of the eggs, they may be rolled in beaten egg and sprinkled with bread- crumbs ; but this is scarcely necessary if they are carefully fried. The flavour of the ham or the anchovy in the forcemeat must preponderate, as it should be very relishing. Tme.—10 minutes to boil the eggs, 5 to 7 minutes to fry them. Average cost, Is. id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Snow, or CEufs h la Neige (a very pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—4 eggs, ^ pint of milk, pounded sugar to taste, flavouring of vanilla, lemon-rind, or or.ango-flower water. Mode.—VvA the milk into a saucepan with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and the rind of h lemon. Let this steep by the side of the fire for h hour, when take out the peel; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and whisk the former to a perfectly siifl froth, or until there is no liquid remain-