21 TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Jacon and Hams, Curing of ItAied by means of small skewe»'s, and lor toasted before the fire. lOON and HAMS, Curing of. 10 carcass of the hog, after hanging br-night to cool, is laid on a strong aoh or stool, and the head is separated the body at the neck close behind I ears; the feet and also the internal are removed. The carcass is next ided into two sides in the following aner:—The ribs are divided about an from the spine on each side, and spine, with the ends of the ribs iched, together with the internal between it and the kidneys, and the flesh above it, throughout the dIb length of the sides, are removed. I portion of the carcass thus cut out the form of a wedge—the breadth Ihe interior consisting of the breadth phe spine, and about an inch of the on each side, being diminished to ^ut half an inch at the exterior or skin the back. The breast-bone, and I the first anterior rib, are also dis- ked from the side. Sometimes the pie of the ribs are removed ; but this, ■reasons afterwards to be noticed, is |ery bad practice. When the hams cured separately from the sides, Ich is generally the case, they are cut 1 so as to include the hock-bone, in a lilar manner to the London mode of Jbing a haunch of mutton. The carcass Ihe hog thus cut up is ready for being ed, which process, in large curing es- Ilishracnts, is generally as follows:— I skin side of the pork is rubbed over , a mixtiu-e of fifty parts by weight It, and one part of saltpetre in ^der, and the incised parts of the ham itch, and tho inside of tho flitch. Bred with the same. The salted bacon, airs of flitches with the insides to , other, is piled one pair of flitches re another on benches slightly in- and furnished with spouts or ggns to convey tho brine to receivers le floor of the salting-house, to bo krwards used for pickling pork for hr purposes. In this state the bacon laiDS a fortnight, which is sufiicienb iflitches cut from hogs of a carcass ?ht less than 15 stone (14 lbs. to the ^e). _ Flitches of a larger size, at tho ation of that timo, are wiped dry I reversed in their place in the pile, Ivg, at the same timo, about half tho Bacon and Hams, Curing of first quantity of fresh, dry, common salt sprinkled over the inside and incised parts; after which they remain on the benches for another week. Hams being thicker than flitches, will require, when less than 20 lbs. weight, 3 weeks ; and when above that weight, 4 weeks to re- main under the above described process. The next and last process in the prepa- ration of bacon and hams, previous to being sent to market, is diying. This is eflfected by hanging the flitches and hams for 2 or 3 weeks in a room heated by stoves, or in a smoke-house, in which they are exposed for the same length of time to the smoke ai-ising from the slow combustion of the sawdust of oak or other hard wood. The latter mode of com- pleting the curing process has some advantages over the other, as by it the meat is subject to the action of creosote, a volatile oil produced by the combustion of the sawdust, which is powerfully anti- septic. The process also furnishing a thin covering of a resinous varnish, ex- cludes the air not only from the muscle, but also from the fat—thus effectually preventing the meat from becoming rusted ; and the principal reasons for condemning the practice of removing the ribs from the flitches of pork are, that by so doing the meat becomes un- pleasantly hard and pungent in the pro- cess of salting, and, by being more ex- posed to the action of the air, becomes sooner and more extensively rusted. Notwithstanding its superior efficacy in completing the process of curing, the flavour which smoke-drying imparts to meat is disliked by many persons, and it is therefore by no means the most gene- ral mode of drying adopted by mercantile curcrs. A very impure variety oipyro- ligneous acid, or vinegar made from the destructive distillation of wood, is some- times used, on account of tho highly preservative power of the creosote which it contains, and also to impart the smoke- flavour ; in which latter object, however, tho coarse flavour of tar is given, rathe'' than that derived from the smoko from combustion of wood. A considerable portion of tho bacon and hams salted in Ireland is exported from that country packed amongst salt, in bales, immed: ately from the salting process, without having been in any degree dried. In the f)rocess of salting above described, pork OSes from 8 to 10 per cent, of its weight, according to the size and quality of tiie