231 i'SE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Oyster Sauce little lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded Diaco ; cayenne to taste. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut each one into 3 pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; add the strained oyster-liquor with the other ingredients ; put in the oysters, and let them heat gradually, but not boil fast. Make the patty-cases as directed for lobster patties, fill with the oyster mix- ture, and replace the covers. Time.—2 minutes for the oysters to simmer in the mixture. Averac/e cost, exclusive of the patty-cases, Is. 4ci. Seasonable from September to April. OTSTEE SAUCE, to serve with jPisli, Boiled Poultry, &c. Inr/r(clients.—3 dozen oysters, ^ pint cf melted butter, made with milk. Mode. —Open the oysters carefully, and save tieir liquor; strain it into a clean saucepan (a lined one is best), put in the oysters, and let them just come to the Ixjiling-point, when they should look j;.lump. Take them off the fire imme- diately, and put the whole into a basin. Strain the liquor from them, mix with it f.ifficicnt melted butter made with milk to make h pint altogether. When this is ready and very smooth, put in the cysters, which should be previously bearded, if you wish the sauce to be really nice. Set it by the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, bid do not allow it to boil, or the oysters will imme- diately harden. Using cream instead of milk makes this sauce extremely delicious. When liked, add a seasoning of cayenne or anchovy sauce; but, as we have before stated, a plain sauce sAohW be plain, !tjid not be overpowered by highly- favoured essences ; therefore wo recom- mend that the above directions be impli- citly followed, and no seasoning added. Ave)\uje cost for this quantity, 2s. Suffi- cient for 6 persons. Never allow fewer than 6 oysters to 1 person, unless the arty is very largo. Seasonable from eptember to April. A more economical sauce may be Kiado by using a smaller quantity of cysters, and not bearding them before they are added to the sauce : this may fcns^cr tha purpose, but we cannot vindi»rtake to recommend it as a mode for noAkiKf this deliQiuus adjunct to Oysters Fried in Batter OYSTEB SOUP. Ingredients.—Q dozen of oysters, 2 quarts of white stock, I pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, l\ oz.'of flour; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. Mode.—■ Scald the oysters in their own liquor; take them out, beard them, and put them in a tureen. Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully strained, and simmer for ^ an hour. Take it off the fire, strain it"again, and add the remain- der of the stock, with the seasoning and mace. Bring it to a boil, add the thick- ening of butter and flour, simmer for 5 minutes, stir in the boiling cream, pour it over the oysters, and serve. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, 2s. St^. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made less rich by using milk instead of cream, and thickening with arrowroot instead of butter and flour. OYSTEE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 quarts of good mutton broth, 6 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour. Mode.—Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor ; then add it, well sti-aincd, to the broth ; thicken with the butter and flour, and simmer for ^ of an hour. Put in the oysters, stir well, but do not let it boil, and serve very hot. Time.—f hour. Average cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Siifficient for 8 persons. OYSTERS, Fried. Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, a little chopped lemon-peel, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Boil the oysters lor 1 minute in their own liquor, and drain them ; fry them with the butter, ketchup, lomon-peol, and parsley; lay them on a dish, and garnish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets, and par- slcy. This is a delicious delicacy, and is a favourite Italian dish. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is. Qd, Seasonable from September to April. Svfficient for 4 persons. OYSTERS Fried in Batter. Ingredients. — ^ i)int of oysters, 2 egpps, J pint of milk, sufficient flour to make the batter; popper aud salt to taste: