Ix Philosophy of Housekeeping. 388. And as the difficulty of cooking a dinner consists, not so much in the number of diehos as in the way they are to bo cooked, if the cook be at all con- sulted by her mistress in the ordering of the dinner, she should take care, above all things, not to have several things to be cooked in the same manner, as, for instance, with soup and boiled fish not to have a boiled joint, and a boiled pudding; or with fried fish, not to have fried cutlets and a fried omelette. With a small open range it is impossible to boil many things at once, and boiled things—particularly fish and puddings—spoil completely by being cooked sooner than required, if left in the water they get sodden, if dished they get flabby. 389. Supposing a dinner to consist of soup, boiled fish requiring 20 minutes to cook, a piece of roast beef, a baked plum-pudding, potatoes and brocoli. The plum-pudding should be made in the morning ; the soup, except the thickening and adding of wine, sauce, &c., should also be made in the morning. 390. The beef should be put down in time to allow a quarter of an hour to every pound, and a quarter of an hour over; if the dinner-time be half-past six she may calculate to have it done at a quarter to seven ; the fish she should calculate to have done at twenty-five minutes to seven; the potatoes and brocoli should not be ready until the beef is to be served; the soup may be drawn aside on the range to let the fish-kettle go on, but the potatoes and brocoh, when once they are put down and have begun to simmer, must be kept so or else they will be spoiled. 391. The soup should be sei'ved punctually at half-past six. The cook should previously have warmed four plates, she should also warm the soup-tureen by rinsing it out with boiling water; and some toasted bread cut up into dice should be served with it if it be brown soup. In dishing it she should be very careful to pour it boldly from the digester into the tureen so that none may drip over the side of the tureen and carry blacks into it, 392. As soon as the soup is served, she should prepare the melted butter for the fish, taking care to have four hot plates and a hot dish ready for it also. 393. The fish being served, she should dish the beef and vegetables, having ready hot plates and dishes for them also. 394. This course will be the longest of any, and while the family are partaking for it, the cook can employ herself washing up the soup and fish plates. 895. The plum-pudding should then bo served, turned out, and sifted sugar strewn over ; it will also require a hot dish and four hot plates. 396, If the housemaid's attendance is required continually in the diniug-