307 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Walnuts, Pickled WALNUTS, Pickled (very Good). Ingredients. — 100 walnuts, salt and water. To each quart of viuegar allow 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 1 oz. of all- spice, 1 oz. of bruised ginger. Mode.— Procure the walnuts while young ; be careful they are not woody, and prick them well with a fork ; prepare a strong brine of salt and water (4 lbs. of salt to each gallon of water), into which put tho walnuts, letting them remain 9 days, and changing the brine every third day; drain them ofif, put them on a dish, place it in the sun until they become perfectly black, which will be in 2 or 3 days; have ready dry jars, into which place the walnuts, and do not quite fill the jars. Boil sufBcient vinegar to cover them, for 10 minutes, with spices in the above proportion, and pour it hot over the walnuts, which must be quite co- vered with the pickle; tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. They will be fit for use in a month, and will keep good 2 or 3 years. Time.— 10 minutes. Seasonable. — Make this from the beginning to the middle of July, beforo the walnuts harden. Note.—When liked, a few shalots may be added to the vinegar, and boiled with it. WATER SOUCHY. Perch, tench, soles, eels, and flounders are considered the best fish for this dish. For the souchy, put some water into a stewpan with a bunch of chopped pai's- ley, some roots, and suiBcient salt to make it brackish. Let these simmer for 1 hour, and then stew the fish in this water. When they are done, take them out to drain, have ready some finely- chopped parsley, and a few roots cut into slices of about one inch thick and an inch in length. Put tho fish in a turccu or deep dish, strain the liquor over them, and add the minced parsley and roots. Sorve with brown broad and butter. WHEATEARS, to Dress. Ingredients.—Whcatears; fresh butter. Mode. — After tho birds are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them like larks, put them down to a quick fire, and baste them woU with fresh butter. When done, which will be in about 20 minutes, dish tb.sm on fried bread-crumbs, and giirnish tho dish with slices of lemon. White Sauce, Good Time. — 20 minutes. Seasonable from July to October. WHISKEY CORDIAL. Ingredients.—1 lb. of ripe white cur- rants, the rind of 2 lemons, ,j oz. of grated ginger, 1 quart of whiskey, 1 lb, of lump sugar. Mode.—Strip the cur- rants from the stalks ; put them into a large jug; add the lemon-rind, ginger, and whiskey ; cover the jug closely, and let it remain covered for 24 hours. Strain through a hair-sieve, add the lump sugar, and let it stand 12 hours longer ; then bottle, and cork well. Time.—To stand 24 hours before being strained ; 12 hours after the sugar is added. Seasonable.— Make this in July, WHITEBAIT, to Dress. Ingredients.—A little flour, hot lard, seasoning of salt. Mode. — This fish should be put into iced water as soon as boiight, unless they are cooked imme- diately. Drain them from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, over which put 2 good hand- fuls of flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker-sieve to take away the superfluous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour. Directly they are done, they must be taken out, and laid before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve re- versed, covered with blotting-paper to absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot napkin, arrange tho fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over tho whole. Time.—3 minutes. Seasonable from April to August. WHITE SAUCE, Good. Ingredients.—^ pint of white stock, ^ pint of cream, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, salt to taste. Mode. — Have ready a delicately-clean saucepan, into which put the stock, which should be well flavoured with vegetables, and rather savoury ; mix the flour smoothly with the cream, add it to the stock, season with a little salt, and boil all these ingredients very gently for about 10 minutes, keeping them well stirred the whole time, as this sauce is very liable to burn. Time.— 10 minutes. Average cost, \s. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any tini(>.