THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 123 Fowls, Boiled, to Carve LEG, WING, AND RBCKBONB OF FOWL. and the wing, it will bo found, can ho oa-sily with.irawn. Tho sliJipe of tho wing sliould bo like tho accompanying engraving. Lot the fork bo placed in- Bide tho leg, which should bo gently forced away li-om the body of tho fowl; and tho joint, being thus discovered, the carver can readily cut through it, and the leg can bo served. When the leg is displaced, it should be of the same shape as that shown in the an- nexed woodcut. Tho legs and wings on either side having been taken off, the carver should draw his knife through the flesh in the direction of the line 4 to 5; by this means the knife can be sUpped underneath the meirythought, which, being lifted up and pressed backward, will immediately come off. The collar- or neck-bones ai'e the next to consider: these lie on each side of the merry- thought, close under the upper part of the wings; and, in order to free these from the fowl, they must also be raised by the knife at their broad end, and turned from the body towards the breast- bone, until the shorter piece of the bone, as dhown in the cut, breaks off. There will now be left only the breast, with the ribs. The breast can be, without diffi- culty, disengaged from the ribs by cut- ting through the latter, which will offer little impediment. The side bones are now to bo taken off ; and to do this, the lower end of the back should be turned from tho carver, who should press the point of the knife through the top of the backbone, near the centre, bringing it down towards the end of the back com- pletely through the bone. If the knife be now turned in the opposite direction, the joint will be easily separated from tho vertebra!. The backbono being now uppei-most, the fork should bo pressed firmly down on it, whilst at the same time the knifo should be employed in raising up the lower small end of the fowl towards tho fork, and thus the back will bo dislocated about ita middle. The wings, breast, and Fowls, Boiled [It 'il merrythought are esteemed the prii parts of a fowl, and are usuaDy serv to tho ladies of the company, to whi logs, except as a maiter of paranion necessity, should not be idven. By gave it as one re;ison why he did like dining with ladies, that they alwa had the wings of the fowls, which himself preferred. We heard a ueni man who, when he might have ha<i wing, declare his partiality for a le saying that he had been obliged to i legs for so long a time that he had last come to like them better than t other more prized parts. If the fowl capon-like, very large, slices may carved from itsbreastin the samemann as from a turkey's. FOWL, Boiled, with Oystei (Excellent.) Ingredients.—1 young fowl, 3 doz oysters, the yolks of 2 eggs, | pint cream. Mode.—Truss a young fowl for boiling; fill the inside with oyste^idi which have been bearded and washed their own liquor; secure the ends of t fowl, put it into ajar, and plunge the; into a saucepan of boiling water. Ke it boiling for 1^ hour, or rather long€ then take the gravy that has flowed frr the oysters and fowl, of which there y be a good quantity; stir in tho creti and yolks of eggs, add a few oyst" scalded in their liquor ; let the sauce f quite hot, but do not allow it to h(r- \ pour some of it over tho fowl, and ttiv- remainder send to table in a tureen, blade of pounded mace added to 1 \ sauce, with the cream and eggs, will ' found an improvement. Time.—li ha^'^ Average cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 o persons. Seasonable from Septemberr April. ai J Hi FOWLS, Broiled, and Mushroc; Sauce. Ingrcdients.~A. large fowl; seasoniii to taste, of pepper and salt, 2 handf.i ' of button mushrooms, 1 slice of lean ha' " £ pinb of thickened gravy, 1 teaspoou i of lemon juice, h teaspoonful of pounc sugar. Mode.—Cnt the fowl into qu ters, roast it until three-parts do and keep it well basted whilst at fire. Tako tho fowl up, broil it fo few minutes over a clear fire, and sea it with pepper and salt. Have some mushroom sauce made iu tho re£ I he : i: i\