150 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Grouse Salad described in carving partridge. The backhoue of the grouse is highly njibm estoemed by many, and this part of many game birds is considered the finest-flavoured. BOAST QBODSB. GEOXTSE SALAD (Soyer's Ke- cipe improved.) Tngrcdients- —8 eggs, butter, fresh salad, 2 or 3 grouse; for the sauce, 1 tahle- spoonful of niiiicod shalot, 2 tahlespoon- fuls of pounded sugar, the j'olks of 2 ogsrs, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, ^ oz. of salt, 12 talilespoonfuls of oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 1 gill of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped tarrs-gon and chervil. Mode.—Boil the eggs liatd, shell them, throw them into cold water, cut a thin slice off the bot- tom to facilitate the proper placing of thein in the dish, cut each one into four engthwise, and make a very thin flat border of butter, abi^ut one inch from the edge of the dish the salad is to bo served on ; fix the pieces of egg upright close to each other, the yolk outside, or the yolk and white alternately ; h-.y in the centre a fresh salad of whatever is in sea- son, and, having previously roasted the grouse rather un<lerdone, cut it into eight or ten pieces, and prepare the sauce as follows:—Put the slialots into a basin, with the sugar, the yolk of an egg, the parsley, and salt, and mix in by degrees the oil and vinegar ; when all the ingre- dients are well mixed, put the s.auce on ice or in a cool place. Wiien ready to serve, whip the cream rather thick, which lightly mix with it; then lay the inferior parts of the grouse on the salad, siiuce o\ er so as to cover each piece, then lay over the salad and the remainder of the grouse, pour the rest of the sauce over, and serve. The eggs may bo ornamented with a little dot of radishes or beetroot on the point. Anchovy and gherkin, cut into small diamonds, may be placed be- tween, or cut gherkins in slices, and a border of them laid round. Tarragon or chervil-leaves are also a pretty adilition. The remains of cold black-game, phea- sant, or partridge may be used in the above manner, and will make a very de- licate dish. Averai/e cost, 2s. dt/. Hea- soiicilk from the Tith of August to the beginning of December. Gurnet GRUEL, to make. In;jredients.~\ tablespoonful of Robin^. son's patent groats, 2 tablespooniuls of f cold water, 1 pint of boiling water. . Mode.—Mix the prepared groatssmoothly v with the cold WHter in a basin ; pour- over thein the boiling water, stirring it all the time. Put it into a very clean. saucepan ; boil the gruel for 10 minutes,, keeping it well stirred ; sweeten to ta.«te, and serve. It may be flavoured with a . small piece of lemon-peel, by boiling it in the gruel, or a little grated nutmeg, may bo put in ; but in these matters the. taste of the patient should be considted.. Pour the gruel in a tumbler, and serve. - When wine is allowed to the invalid, 21 tablespoonfuls of sherry or port make! this preparation very nice. In ca-es of colds, the same quantity of spirits isi sometimes added instead of wine. Time,. —10 minutes. Sufficient to make a pints of gruel GUDGEONS. Iiifjredients. — Egg and bread-cmrahs ^ sufficient for the quantity of (ish ; hot: lard. Mode. — Do not scrape oflt the ;• scales, but, take out the gills and inside, , and cleanse thoroughly ; wipe them dry, . flour and dip them into egg, and spriuklo over with bread-crumbs. Fry of a nice brown. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Aver- age cost.—Seldom bought. Seasomdile t fiom March to July. Sufficient.—3 for each person. GUINEA-FOWL, Eoast, Larded. Ingredients.—A guinea-fowl, lardoons, flour, and salt. J/ot/e. — When this hird is larded, it should be trussed the same as a pheasant; if plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. After larding and truss- ing it, jiut it down to roast at a brisk fire; keep it well basted, and a short time before serving, dredge it with a little flour, and let it froth nicely. Ser\'e with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the same, and one of well-mad* bread-sauce. Time. — Guinea-fowl, lar« ded, 1;J hour ; plainly roasted, about 1 hour. Sufficient for (3 persons. Suisun- alle in winter. A'o^e.—The broa«t, if lar.led, should be covered with a piece of paper, and re- moved about 10 n)inutes before serving. GURNET, or GURNARD. Ingredients.—1 gurnet, C oz. af salt to