THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 73 Choeso, Toasted ceedingly good spread on broad, and is tbo best way of eating it for thoso wlioso digestion is weak. Cut up the clieeso into small pieces, and pound it smoolhly in a mortar, adding butter in the above proportion. Press it down into a jar, cover with clarified butter, and it will keep for several days. The flavour may bo vcr}' much increased by adding mixed mustard (about a teaspoonful to every lb.), or caj enne, or pounded mace. Curry- powder is also not unfrequently mixed with it. CHEESE, Toasted, or Scotch Rare- bit, Ingredients. — A few slices of rich cheese, toast, mustard, and pepper. Mode.—Cut some nice rich sound cheese into rather thin slices ; melt it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plato or over steam, and, when melted, add a small quantity of mixed mustard and a season- ing of pepper; stir the cheese until it is completely dissolved, then brown it be- fore the fire, or with a salamander. Fill the bottom of the cheese-toaster with hot water, and serve with dry or buttered toasts, whichever may be preferred. Our engraving illus- trates a cheese- toaster with hot-water re- servoir : the HOT-WATEB CHEBSE-DisH. cheoso is mcltcd in the upper tin, which is placed in an- other vessel of boiling water, so keeping the preparation beautifully hot. _A small quantity of porter, or port wine, is some- times mixed with the cheese ; and, if it be not very rich, a few pieces of butter may bo mixed with it to great advantage. Sometimes the melted cheese is spread on the toasts, and then laid in the clicese- dish at the top of the hot water. Which- ever way it is served, it is highly neces- sary that the mixture be very hot, and Tery quickly sent to table, or it will bo worthless. Time.—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, Ihd. per slice. Sufficient.—AWow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. CHEESE, Toasted, or Welsh Bare- bit, Ingredients.—BWcea of bread, butter, Cheshire or Gloticcstcr cheese, mustard, find pepper. Mode.—Cnl the bread into Cheesecakes slices about J inch in thickness; pareoff the crust, toast the bread hligbtly with- out hardening or burning it, and spread it with butter. Cut some slices, not quite so large as the bread, from a good rich fat cheese ; lay them on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; be careful tliat the cheese docs not burn, and let it be equally melted. Spread over the top a little made mustard and a seasoning of pepper, and serve very hot, with very hot plates. To facilitate the melting of the cheese, it may be out into thin liiikes, or toasted on one side before it is laid on the bread. As it is so essential to send this dish hot to table, it is a good plan to melt the cheese in small round silver or metal pans, and to send these pans to table, allowing one for each guest. Slices of dry or buttered toast should always accompany them, with mustard, pepper, and salt. 2'ime.— About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, Ihd. per slice. Sufficient.— Allow a slice to each person, SeasoiioZle at any lime. A'ote.—Should the cheese be dry, a littlo butter mixed with it will be an improvement, CHEESE SANDWICHES. Ingredients. —Slices of brown bread- and-butter, thin slices of cheese. Mode. —Cut from a nice fat Cheshire, or any good rich cheese, some slices about .f, inch thick, and place them between some slices of brown bread-and-butter, like sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and, when the bread is toasted, serve on a napkin very hot and very quickly. Time.—10 minutes in a brisk oven. Avei'agc cost, IW. each sandwich. Sufficient.—Allow a san lwich for each person. Seasonable at any time. CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—8 oz. of pressed curds, 2 oz. of ratafias, C oz. of siigar, 2 oz. of butter, the j'olks of 6 eggs, nutmogs, salt, rind of 2 oranges or lemons. Mode. —Rub the sugar on the or.ange or lemon rind, and scrape it ofT. Press the cunl in a napkin, to get rid of moisture ; jiouuJ it thoroughly in n. morlar with the other ingredients till tlic-Avluilc becomes a soft paste, l^ino 2 dozen, or more, tartlet- pans with good pufT-paste, garnish liieso with the cheese-custard, placo a strip of