17t THE nrCTTONAIlY OF COOKERY. Lamb, Broast of tlie fivftost, tlie f^rass-l'eil. lamb: tliis, hdwovov, ini|.lioR an a^o much greater thnn cither of tlie others. Lamb, in the early part of ibe season, however roared, is in London, and indeed generally. Bold in quarters, divided with eleven ribs to the foro- quarter; but, as the season ad- vances, these are subdivided into two, and the hind- quarter in tliesame manner; the first consisting of the shoulder, and the neck and breast; the latter, of the leg and the loin.— As lamb, from the juicy nature of its flesh, is especially liable to spoil in unfavourable wea- ther, it should be frequently wiped, so as to remove any moisture that may form on it. In the Pur- chasing OF Lamb FOB THE Table, there are certain signs by which the experienced judgment is able to form an accurate opinion whether the animal has been lately slaughtered, and ■whether the joints possess that condition of fibre indicative of good and whole- Bomo meat. The first of these doubts may be solved satisfactorily by the bright and dilated appearance of the eye ; the auality of the fore-quarter can always be guaranteed by the blue or healthy rud- diness of the jugular, or vein of the neck ; vvhile the rigidity of the knuckle, and the firm, compact feel of the kidney, will answer in an equally positive manner for the integrity of the hind-quarter. Mode of cutting up a Side of Lamb in London.—1. Ribs; 2. Breast; 3. Shoulder; 4. Loin; 6. Leg; 1, 2, 3. Fore Quarter. LAMB, Breast of, and Green Peas. Inf/redlenls.—\ breast of lamb, a few slice's of bacon, h pint of stock, 1 lemon, 1 ouion, 1 bunch of Eavoury herbs, green- BIDB 01' I-AMB, Lamb, Pore-qucrter of EOiis. Made.—Remove tlie skin from a • ri.'ast of l.iinb, put it into a Kauce)<an of boiling water, and let it simmer for 5 • minutes. Take it out and lay it in cold water. Line the bottom of a stewpaa with a few thin slices of bacon ; lay the ■■ lamb on these ; peel the lemon, cut it into slices, and put these on the nioai^ to keep it white and make it tender;; cover with 1 or 2 more slices of bacon; : add the stock, onion, and herbs, and set; it on a slow fire to simmer very gently ■ until tender. Have ready some green . peas, put these on a dish, and place the i lamb on the top of them. The appear- ance of this dish may be much improved by glazing the lamb, and spinach may be substituted for the peas when variety is desired. Time.—1A hour. Average cost, lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable.—Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Stewed Breast o£ Ingredients.—1 breast of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, sufficient stock to cover it, 1 class of slierry, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Skin the lamb, cut it into jiieces, and season them with pepper and salt; lay these in a stewpan, pour in sufficient stock or gravy to cover them, and stew very gently until tender, which will be in about 1.^ hour. Just before serving, thicken tfie sauce with a little butter and flour; add the sherry, give one boil, and pour it over the meat. Green peas, or stewed mushrooms, may be strewed over the meat, and will be found a very great improvement. Time. — \h hour. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. Siijjicient for 8 persons. Seasonable.^ Grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. Lamb, to Carte.—Leg, loin, saddle shoulder, are carved as mutton. LAMB, Fore-quarter of, to Carve, We always think that a good and prac- tised carver delights in the manipulation of this joint, for there is a little field for his judgment and dexterity which does not always occur. The separation of the B-houlder from the breast is the fii-st point to be attended to ; this is done by passmg the knife rovmd the dotted line, as shown by the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, so as to cut through the skin, and then, by raising with a little force the shoulder, into which the fork should be firmly