xxxlv Philosophy of Housekeeping. 109. Most mistresses prefer to mnke botli tea and cofiTee ; for tbis purpo , :ui urn is used in summer, and the bright copper kettle in winter. 200. While the tea is drawing, she will boil the eggs. These being done a: placed in the egg-cups, she will put them on a dish and the dish on her tra; she will put on it also the teapot, the dish of hot meat, and the hot plates, a' take all to the breakfast-room ; she will place the teapot on the stand befor mistress, the dish on tlv? mat before her master, the plates also befoi-o him eggs at the side ; she will then wait a few moments in the room to hand the plal All this, if done in the above onler and quickly, without daicdling, can be accoi plished by eight o'clock, winter or summer. While the family are at th breakfast, she should take her own ; and then, immediately she is done, she should go upstairs and open all the bedroom windows, and turn down the be-: to air. n ork, 1 In 201. When the family have finished breakfast, she should first clear away the breakfast things, then take up the crumbs in the dustpan, arrange the chairs in their places, and sweep up the hearth. Where but one servant is kept, and in a town house, it is better immediately after breakfast to attend to doicnslair wort, rather than go to make up the bedrooms. For, as between nine and ten o'cl( is the usual hour for the tradespeople to call, the continued running up and di stairs to attend to them, if she be engaged in the upper part of the house, besi being a severe tax upon her strength, greatly retards a servant in work, unavoidable delays, too, which it occasions in attending to them, is a considerable trial to the patience of the butcher and greengrocer, who are also trying to c;t through ikeir morning's work as quickly as possible. After breakfast, theref jre, the first thing for the general servant to do is to— WASH UP THE BREAKFAST THINGS. (See j)age 1.) 202. When all the things are done they should bo put instantly by, the pH and dishes in their appointed places on the dresser, the china cups and sau| in the cupboard, the knives in the knife-basket, the silver in the plate-basket, i at once taken up to the dining-room, and placed in the cellaret, and locked ili| 203. The servant should then wash down the kitchen-table, empty, wipej and put aside the pail, hang up the towels to dry, clean and put aside the f sav.cepan and frying-pan ; arrange the kitchen fire, sweep up the hearth,! generally tidy up the kitchen for her mistress's inspection. 204. Then, having washed her hands, she will go upstairs, and proceed—'•^■re^ TO ARRANGE THE BEDROOMS. (^ke Housemaid.)