THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEllY. 0 , Apples and Rice ?our it over the whole, and serve hot. 'ime.—About 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently; about f hour to cook the rice. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persona. Seasonable from August to March. APPLES AND RICE (a pretty Dish of). Ingi-edients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of h lemon, sugar to taste, ^ saltspoonful of salt, 8 apples, \ lb. of sugar, ^ pint of water, I pint of boiled custard. Mode.—Flavour the milk with lemon-rind, by boiling them together for a few minutes ; then take out the peel, and put in the rice, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and boil gently until the rice is quite soft; then let it cool. In the meantime pare, quarter, and core the apples, and boil them until tender in a syrup made with sugar and water in the above proportion; and, when soft, lift them out on a sieve to drain. Now put a middling-sized gallipot in the centre of a dish ; lay the rice all round till the top of the gallipot is reached; smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and stick the apples into it in rows, one ;row sloping to the right, and the next to the left. Set it in the oven to colour the apples; then, when required for table, iremove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fniits, and pour in the middle BufiBcient custard, made by the recipe for boiled custard, to be level with the top of the rice, and serve hot. Time.—From !l to 30 minutes to stew the apples; hour to simmer the rice ; \ hour to ike. Average cost, Is. Grf. Sufficient r 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from ugust to March. PPLES, Compote of (Soyer's Eecipe,—a Dessert Dish). Ingredients.—6 ripe apples, 1 lemon, lb. of lump sugar, h pint of water. ''ode.—Select tho apples of a moderate ze, peel them, cut them in halves, re- ove the cores, and rub each piece over ith a little lemon. Put the sugar and ater together into a lined saucepan, ..ul let them boil until forming a thickish vnip, when lay in the apples with tho nd of tho lemon cut thin, and tho juico !' tho same. Let the apples simmer jll tender ; then tako them out very ;arofully, drain them ou a sieve, and Apples, Flanc of reduce the syrap by boiling it quickly for a few minutes. When both are cold, arrange tho apples neatly on a glass dish, pour over tho green ange- -^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ lica or can- compote op applbs. died citron. Smaller apples may be dressed in the same manner : they should not be divided in half, but peeled, and the cores pushed out with a vegetatle-cutter. Time.— 10 minutes to boil tho sugar and water together; from 20 to 30 minutes to sim- mer the apples. Average cost, 6d. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLES, Plane of; or Apples in a raised Crust. (Sweet Entremets.) Ingredients.—% lb. of short crust, 9 moderate-sized apples, the rind and juice of ^ lemon, i^lb. of white sugar, f pint of water, a few strips of candied citron. Mode.—Make a plain stifif short crust, roll it out to the thickness of \ inch, and butter an oval mould ; line it with the crust, and press it carefully all round the sides, to obtain the form of the mould, but bo particular not to break the paste. Pinch the part that just rises above the mould with the paste- pincers, and fill the case with flour; bake it for about ^ hour; then take it out of the oven, remove the flour, put' tho case back in tho oven for another if hour, and do not allow it to get scorched. It is now ready for the apples, which should be prepared in the following manner : peel, and take out the cores with a small knife, or a scoop for the purpose, without dividing the apples ; put them into a small lined saucepan, j ust capable of holding them, with sugar, water, lemon- juice and rind, in the above proportion. Simmer them very gently until tender; then take out the apples, let them cool, arrange them in the flanc or case, and boil down the syrup until reduced to a thick jelly ; pour it over tho apples, andgaiuish with a fow slices of candied citron. A more simple flanc may be made by rolling out the paste, cutting the bottom of a round or oval shape, and then a narrow strip for tho sides : those should bo stuck on with tho white of an