2U THE DICTIONARy OP COOKERY. Nasturtiums, Pickled meat, 3'/. pei* quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. NASTURTIUMS, Pickled (a very good Substitute for Capers), Ingredients.—To each piut of vinegar, 1 oz. of salt, 6 peppercorns, nastiirlinrns. Mode.—Gather the nasturtium pods on a dry day, and wipe them clean with a cloth ; put them in a dry gla^s bottle, with vinegar, salt, and pepper, in the above proportion. If you cannot find enough ripe to fill a bottle, cork up what you have got until you have some more tit; they may be added from day to day. Bung up the bottles, and seal or rosin the tops. They will be fit for use in 10 or 12 months ; and the best way is to make them one season for tuo next. Seasonable.—Look for nasturtiam-pods from the end of July to the end of August. NECTARIlSrES, Preserved. Ingredients.— To every lb. of sugar allow \ pint of water; nectarines. Mode. —Divide the nectarines in two, take out the stones, and make a strong syrup with sugar and water in the above proportion. Put in the nectarines, and boil them until they have thoroughly imbibed the sugar. Keep the fruit as whole as pos- sible, and turn it carefully into a pan. The next day boil it again for a few mi- nutes, tako out the nectarines, put them into jars, boil the syrup quickly for five minutes, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, cover the preserve down. The syrup and preserve must be carefully skimmed, or it will not bo clear. Time. —10 minufes to boil the sugar and water; 20 minutes to boil the fruit the first time, 10 niinutes the second time ; 5 minutes to bon 'he syrup. Seasonable in August and SoiM^embcr, but cheapest in Sep- tember. NECTAn, Welsli. Ingredients.—\ lb. of raisins, 3 lemons, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 gallons of boiling •water. Mode. — Cut the peel of the lemons very thin, pour upon it the boil- ing wafer, and, wiien cool, add the strained jiiico of the lemons, the sugar, and the raisins, stoned and chopped very fino. Let it stand 4 or 5 days, stirring It every day ; then strain it through a November—Bills of Fare jelly-bag, and bottle it for present use Tme.—4 or 5 days. Average cost, Is. 9d Sufficient to make 2 gallons. NEGUS, to make. Ingredients. — To every pint of port wine allow 1 quart of boiling water, \ lb. of sugar, 1 lemon, grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—As this beverage is mi)re usually drunk at children's parties than at any other, the wine need not be very old or expensive for the purpose, a new fruity wine answering very well for it. Pn> the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sjcgar (equal to \ lb. )oDtheleni'>n-rind .until all the yellow part of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice, and strain it. Add the sugar and lemon- juice to the port-wine, with the grated nutmeg ; pour over it the boiling water, cover the jug, and, when the beverage has cooled a little, it will be fit for use. Negus may also be made of sherry, or any other sweet white wine, but is more usually made of port than of any other beverage. Sufficient.—Allow 1 pint of wine, with the other ingredients in pro- portion, for a party of 9 or 10 children. NOVEMBER-BILIiS OP PAKE Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. a Pi d Thick Grouso Soup, remoTed by Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce. Vase of Flowers. Clear Ox-tail Soup, removed by Fillets of Turbot h. la Crcme. S CO •c Entries. Ul o Povdet h, la Marengo. V«8e of Flowers. Mublirooms sauti??. 3 <3 e K