THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. ICO Ices, to make Fruit-water epndJlos, and a cellaret. The tul) must bo largo enough to cuniain about a hn.sliul of ice, poundeil eiuall, when broiigbt, out of the ice-house, and mixed very care- fully with either mlt, mire, or soda. The Oeeziijg-pot is best maiio of pewter. If it be of tin, as is sometimes the case, the congelation goes on too i-apidly in it for the I borough intermingling of its con- tonls, on which the excellence of the ice greatly depends. The spaddle is gene- rally made of copper, kept bright and clean. The cellaret is a tin vessel, in which ices are kept for a short time from dissolving. The method to be pursued in the freezing process must bo attended to. "When the ice tub is prepared with fresh- pounded ice and salt, the freezing-pot is put into it up to its cover. The articles to be congealed are then poured into it and covered over; but to prevent the ingredients from separating and the heaviest of them from falling to the bot- tom of the mould, it is requisite to turn the freezing-pot round and round by the handle, so as to keep its contents moving until the congelation commences. As soon as this is perceived (the cover of the pot being occasionally taken off for the purpose of noticing when freezing takes place), the cover is immediately closed over it, ice is put upon it, and it is left in this state till it is served. The use of the spaddla is to stir up and remove from the sides of the freezing-pot the cream, which in the shaking may have washed against it, and by stirring it in with the rest, to prevent waste of it occurring. Any negligence in stirring the contents of the freezing-pot before congelation takes place, will destroy the whole: cither the sugar sinks to the bottom and leaves the ice insufficiently sweetened, or lumps are formed, which disfigure and dis- colour it. ICES, to make Fruit-water. Inr/redients.—To every pint of fruit- juice allow 1 pint of syrup. Mode.— Select nice ripe fmit; pick off the stalks and put it into a large earthen pan, with a little pounded sugar strewed over ; stir it about with a wooden spoon until it is well broken, then rub it through a hair sieve. Make a syrup, without white of egg; let it cool, add the fruit-juice, mix well together, and put the mixture into the freezing-pot. Proceed as di- rected for Ice Puddings, and wlieu tho Icing, Sugar, for Cakoa mixture is equally frozen, put it intosmw glasbos. liaspbeny, struwherry, ciM SISH OF ICES. rant, and other fresh-fruit-water ices, aj made in the fame manner. Time.— hour to freeze tho mi xture. A verage coi Zd. io id. each. SeasonaMe, niih. fret fruit, in June, July, and August. ICING, Almond, for Cakes. Ingredients.—To every lb. of finel* pounded loaf sugar, allow 1 lb. of swi almonds, the whites of 4 eggs, a litt rosewater. Mode. —Blanch the almond and pound them (a few at'"a time) in mortar to a paste, adding a little n s ^ water to facilitate the operation. \\'h\: l the whites of tho eggs to a strong fruUfjK. mix them with the pounded almondi^' stir in the sugar, and beat altogeihc When the cake is sufficiently baked, la on the almond icing, and put it into oven to dry. Before laj'ing this pre_ tion on the cake, great care mu=t I taken that it is nice and smooth, whic is easily accomplished by well beating mixture. ICING, Sugar, for Cakea. Ingredients. — To every lb. of loa i sugar allow tho whites of 4 OL'gs, I oz. t i fine starch. Mode.—Boat the eggs to I strong froth, and gradually sift in th I sugar, which should be reduced to t.. finest possible powder, and gradually ad i tho starch, also finely powdered. De:' t tho mixture well until tho sugar i \ smooth ; then with a spimn or broa ( knife Ifiy the ice equally over the cake! i These should then be placed in a vcr f cool oven, and the icing allowed to dr j and harden, but not to colour. Tb j icing may he coloured with strawberry o | currant juice, or with piepared ncal. If it bo put on the cake,- as they aro withdrawn from the • will become firm and hard by li the cakes aro cold. On very ric such as wedding, christening cak^ a layer of almond icing is usually .'j r<.u i over tho top, and over that the wliit icing as described. All iced cakes shoul bo kept in a very dry place.