882 Philosophy of Housekeeping. the middle of the legs, which should be passed through the body to the piniot. svnd leg on tho other side, one skewer securing the limbs on both sides. Th( liver and gizzard should be placed in tho wings, the liver on one side and th< gizzard on the other. Tie the legs together by passing a trussing-needle threaded with twine, through tho back-bone, and secure it on the other side. I trussed like a capon, the legs are placed more apart. When firmly trussed, singe all over, and begin to lard in three distinct linos across the breast i incl apart. Place the larding-needlo in, and di-aw it out at the exact opposite point place the bacon in the needle, andi>ull it through, leaving h inch of bacon on eacl side. Proceed thus until three rows ai-e finished. Put it down to a bright cleai" fire, paper the breast with a sheet of buttered paper, and keep the fowj Well basted. Roast for f hour, more or less, according to the size, and 10 rninutes before serving, remove the paper, dredge the fowl with a little fine flour, put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle, and as it melts, baste the fowl with it; when nicely frothed and of a rich colour, serve with good brown gravy, a little of which should be poured over the fowl, and a tureen of well-made bread- sauce. Mushroom, oyster, or egg sauce is a very suitable accompaniment to roast fowl. BOILED CALF'S HEAD. INGBEDIENTS.—Calf's head, water, a little salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablesiDoonful of minced parsley, jjepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, and the brains removed, soak it in warm water to blanch it. Lay the brains also into warm water to soak,: and let them remain for about an hour. Put the head into a stewpan, with suffi- cient cold water to cover it, and when it boils add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, and boil the head until perfectly tender. Boil the brains, chop them, and mix them with melted butter, minced parsley, pepper,- salt, and lemon-juice in the above proportion. Take up the head, skin the" tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains round it. Have ready some parsley and butter, smother the head with it, and the remainder send to table inr a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled pork, or a pig's cheek is indispensable with calf's head. The brains are sometimes chopped with hard-boiled eggs, and mixed with a little bechamel or white sauce. BOILED KOUND OF BEEF. Ingredients.—Beef, water. Mode.—As a whole round of beef, generally speaking, is too large for small families, and very seldom required, we here give the recipe for dressing a portion of the silver side of the round. Take from 12 to 16 lb., after it has been in salt about 10 days; just wash off the salt, skewer it up in a nice round-lookmg form, and bind it with tape to keep the skewers ia their places. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, se*- it upon a good fire, and when it begins to boil, carefully