THE DTCTIONAHY OF COOKEEY. 207 Mutton, Loin of, to Carve lEG OP MT31T0S. ihown in the engraving. The carving of it is not very cUfBcult: the knife ihould e < arried sharply down in the iirection of the line from 1 to 2, and slices taken from either side, as the guests may do- sire, some liking the knuckle-end, as well done, and others preferring the more under- done part. The fat should be sought near the line 3 to 4. Some connoisseurs are fond of having this joint dished with the under-side upper- most, so as to get at the finely-grained meat lying under that part of the joint, known as the Pope's eye ; but this is an extravagant fashion, and one that will iardly find favour in the eyes of many economical British housewives and house- keepers. MUTTOlSr, Loin of, to Carve. There is one point in connection with carving a loin of mutton which includes every other ; that is, that the joint shoidd be thoroughly well jointed by the butcher before it is cooked. This knack of jointing re- quires practice and the proper tools; and no one but the butcher is sup- posed to have these. If the bones be not well jointed, the carving of a loin of mutton is not a gracious business ; whereas, if that has been attended to, it is an easy and untroublesome task. The knife should be inserted at fig. 1, and after feeling your way between the bones, it should be carried sharply in the direction of the lino 1 to 2. As there are some people who prefer the outside cut, while others do not like it, the question as to their choice of this should be asked. MUTTON, Saddle of, to Carve. Although we have heard, at various ' intervals, growlings expressed at the inevitable "saddle of mutton" at the dinner-parties of our middle classes, yet we doubt whether any other joint is better liked, when it has been well hung tOIH OP MUTTON. SADDLH OB MTTTIOIT. Mutton Chops, Broiled and artistically cooked. There is a diver- sity of opinion respecting the mode of sending this joint to table; but it has only reference to whether or no there shall bo any portion of the tail, or, if so, how many joints of the tail. Some trim the tail with a paper frill. The carving is not diflBcult: it is usually cut in the direction of the line from 2 to 1, quite down to the bones, in evenly-sliced pieces. A fashion, however, patronized by some, is to carve it obliquely, in the direction of the line from 4 to 3; in which case tho joint would be <iiu"ned round the other way, having the tail end on the right of the carver. MUTTON", Shoulder of, to Carve. This is a joint not difiBcult to carve. The knife should be drawn from the outer edge of the shoulder in the direc- tion of the line from 1 to 2, until the bone of the shoulder is ^ reached. As many slices as can be carved in this manner should be taken, and af- terwards the meat lying on each side of the blade- bone should be served, by carving in the direction of 3 to 4 and 3 to 4. The up- permost side of the shoulder being now finished, the joint should be tm'ned, and slices taken off along its whole length. There are some who prefer this under- side of the shoulder for its juicy flesh, although tho grain of the meat is not so fine as that on the other side. MUTTON CHOPS, Broiled. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, pepper and salt, a small piece of butter. Alode. —Cut the chops from a well-hung tender loin of mutton, remove a portion of the fat, and trim them into a nice shape; slightly beat and level them ; place the gridiron over a bright clear fire, rub the bars with a little fat, and lay on the chops. Whilst broiling, frequently turn BH0T7LDKB OP lUTTTOir.