130 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Fowl, Fricasseed chickon, but iindrossod moat will bo found far superior. FOWL, Fricasseed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 blade of pounded mace, i bunch of siivoury herbs, 1 onion, pep- per and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of flour, i pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Carvo the fowls into nice joints; make gravy of tho trim- mings and legs, by stewing them with tho lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, sea- soning, and water, until reduced to ^ pint; then strain, and put in the fowl. Warm it thi'ough, and thicken with a teaspoonful of tloiir ; stir the yolks of the eggs into the cream ; add these to tho sauce, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy, \ hour to warm the fowl. Average cost, exclu- sive of the cold chicken, %d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowls, vine- gar, salt and cayenne to taste, or 4 minced shalots. For the batter,—h lb. of flour, h pint of hot water, 2 oz, of butter, the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.— Cut the fowl into nice joints; steep them for an hour in a little vinegar, with salh, cayenne, and minced shalots. Make tha batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together; melt in it the butter, and add the whites of egg benten to a froth; take out the pieces of fowl, dip them in tho batter, and fry in boiling lard, a nice brown. Pile them high in the dish, and garnish with fried parsley or rolled bacon. When approved, a sauce or gravy may be served with them. Time.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Ave- rage cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, ^d. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookeht.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast fowl, vino- gar, salt and cayenne to taste, 4 minced shalots, yolk of egg; to ovoiy tcacupful of bread-crumbs allow 1 blade of pounded maco, A teaspoonful of minced lemon- peel, I'saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, il/oc/e.—Steep tho pieces of fowl as in the preceding recipe, then dip Fowl, naslied them into tho yolk of an egg or claiific butter; spi iuklo over l^read'-crumljs wii which have been mixed salt, maco, ca;. enuo, and lemon-peel in tbe above pr portion. Fry a light broivn, and ser' with or without gravy, as may be pr ferred. Time.—10 minutes to fry il'ft' fowl. Average cost, exclusive of the eo fowl, Gd. Seasonable at any time. FOWLS, Fried, and French, Beanu [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredient —Tho remains of cold roast fowl; tl yolk of 1 egg, 2 oz. of butter, 1 blade pounded maco, { saltspooiiful of gratw nutmeg, bread-crumbs and chopped pa sley. Mode.—Cut the fowl into ne joints, brush them over with tho yo of egg, and sprinkle them with brea crumbs, with which the parsle>/, nutme and mace have been well mixed. Fry tl fowl in the butter until of a nice brow and dish tho pieces on French bea boiled, and afterwards simmered fur minute or two in butter. The di; should be garnished with rolled baco Time.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Ai rage cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 6 Seasonable from July to September. tdr FOWL au Gratin. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredieru-i —The remains of either cold roast boiled fowl, A pint of Bechamel sauc a dessertspoonful of grated Parmesi- cheese, pepper and salt to taste, | sai ^ spoonful of grated nutmeg, ^ pint cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumt fried potatoes. Mode.—Mince the fc not too finel3'', and make it hot in ti'. Bechamel sauce, to which tho nutm^ >^ pepper and salt, and cream, have boi . ^ added. When well mixed, scn-o til ■'^ fowl on to a dish, cover it with the brea ^ crumbs and Parmesan cheese, drop ov a little clarified butter, and bake in tl oven until of a pale brown. Garnish tl dish with fried potatoes. Time.—10 n nutes to wai-m tho fowl, 10 minutes bako. Seasonable at any time. FOWL, Hashed. An Entree. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredipff^ —The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 fNM' of water, 1 onion, 2 or 3 small carrot \ 1 blado of pounded maco, p pper M ^ salt to taste, 1 small bunch of 6avoi»i ,5)^' it.