THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 10 •Apples, Ginger egg to the buttom piece, and the flanc then filled with raw fruit, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. It will not require so longbaking as in a mould ; but the crust must be made everywhere of an equal thickness, and so perfectly joined that the juice does not escape. This dish may also be served hot, and should be garnished in the same manner, or a little melted apricot jam may be poured over the apples, which very .much improves their flavour. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the flanc ; from 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples veiy gently. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 1 entremets or side-dish. Seaso7iable from August to March. APPLES, Ginger (a pretty Supper or Dessert Dish.). Ingredients.—1^ oz. of whole ginger, \ pint of whiskey, 3 lbs. of apples, 2 lbs. of white sugar, the juice of 2 lemons. Mode.—Bruise the ginger, put it into a small jar, pour over sufi&cient whiskey to cover it, and let it remain for 8 days; then cut the apples into thin slices, after paring and coring them ; add the sugar and the lemon-juice, which should be strained ; and simmer all together very gently until the apples are transparent, hwi not broken. Serve cold, and garnish the dish with slices of candied lemon- peel or preserved ginger. Time.—3 days to soak the ginger; about % hour to simmer the apples very gently. Average cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 dishes. Sea- sonable from August to March. APPLES Iced, or Apple Hedge- hog. Ingredients. — About 3 dozen good boiling apples, 1 lb. of sugar, ^ pint of water, the rind of ^ lemon minced very fine, the whites of 2 eggs, 3 tablespoon- fuls of pounded sugar, a few sweet al- monds. Mode.—Pool and core a dozen of theapplcswithoutdividingthem.andstew them very gently in a lined saucepan with lb. of the sugar and h pint of water,' and when tender lift them care- fully on to a dish. Have ready tho re- mainder of the apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices ; put them into tho same syrup with tho other A lb. of sugar, the lemon-peel, and boil gently until they are reduced to a marmalade ; keep- ing them stirred, to prevent them from burning. Cover tho bottom of the dish Apples in Bed Jelly with some of tho marmalade, and over that a layer of tho stewed apples, in tho insides of which, and between each, placo some of tho marmalade; then placo another layer of apples, and (ill up tho cavities with marmalade as before, form- ing the whole into a raised oval shape. "Whip the whites of the eggs to a sti:l froth, mix with them the pounded sugai-, and cover the apples very smoothly all over with the icing; blanch and cut eacli almond into 4 or 5 strips; place these strip.s at equal distances over the icing, stickin^f up ; sti'cw over a little rough pounde^; sugar, and put the dish in a very slo^■■ oven, to colour the almonds, and so allo" the apples to get warm through. This entremets may also be served cold, and makes a pretty supper-dish. Tim£.— From 20 to 30 minutesto stew the apples. Average cost, 2s. to 2s. Qd. Sufficieid for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable fi-om August to March. APPLES in Red Jelly (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, \1 cloves, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 lemon, 2 teacupfuls of water, 1 tablespoonful ol gelatine, a few drops of prepared co- chineal. Mode.—Choose rather large apples; peel them and take out tho cores, either with a scoop or a small silver knife, and put into each apple 2 cloves and as much sifted sugar aa they will hold. Place them, without touching each other, in a large pie-dish ; add more white sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and 2 teacupfuls of water. Bake in tho oven, with a dish over them, until they are done. Look at them frequently, and, as each apple is cooked, place it in a glass dish. They must not be left in the oven after they are done, or they will break, and so would spoil the appearance of the dish. When the apples are neatly arranged in tho dish without tourhing each other, strain the liquor in which they have been stewing into a lined saucepan; add to it the. rind of the lemon, and a tablespoonful of gelatine which has been previously dissolved in cold water, and, if not sweet, a little more sugar, and 6 cloves. Boil till quite clear; colour w-ith a few di-ops of pre- pared cochineal, and strain tho jelll through a double muslin into a jug; let it cool a little; then pour it into the dish round tho apples, when quit« cold,