S33 Boiled Tongue. they are cooked, or they would lose their beautiful colour in boiling. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, remove the peel quickly, cut the beet into thick slices, aud send to table melted butter. For salads, pickle, &o., let the root cool, then peel, and cut it into slices. FRICASSEED CHICILENS. Ingredients.—2 small fowls or one large one, 3 oz. of buttei-, a bunch of parsley and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, 5 pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Choose a couple of fat plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing, aud washing them, skin, and carve them into joints ; blanch these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes; take them out, and immei-se them in cold water to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stew-pan ; add the parsley, oniohs, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stewpan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with flour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much; then moisten the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew very gently for | hour. Lift the fowl into another stewpan, skim the sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire, by letting it boil fast, and strain it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne ; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well- beaten yolks of 3 eggs : these should not be put in till the last moment, and the sauce should be made hot, but must not hoil, or it will instantly cmxlle. A few button mushrooms stewed with the fowl are an improvement. PBICANDEAU OF VEAL. IxGREDiENTS.—The best end of a neck of veal (about 21 lb.), lardoons (strips of bacon cut for larding), 2 carrots, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little whole white pepper, a few slices of fat bacon. il/orfe.—Cut away the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal with a sharp knife, scooping it from the bones. Put the bones in with a little water, which will serve to moisten the fricandeau ; they should stew about 1 h hour. Lard the veal, and be careful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau. Stew very gently for three hours; glaze, and serve it on sorrel, spinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. BOILED TONGUE. Inobedien'TS.—1 tongue, a bunch of savoury herbs, water. Mode.—In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being young and tender. If a dried one, and rather hord, soak it at least for 12 hours previously to cooking j if,