404 Philosophy of Housekeeping. the freozing-pot, and freeze. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, and all fruit ice- creams are niado in the same manner. A little pounded sugar sprinkled over th» fruit before it is mashed assists to extract the juice. In winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, a little jam may bo substituted for it; it should be melted and worked through a sieve, before being added to the whipped cream ; and if the colour should not be good, a little prepared cochineal may be put in to improve its appearance. ICED PUDDINa. Ingredients.—40 chestnuts, 1 lb, sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, h pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs. Mode.—Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smo6th, adding a few spoonfuls of syrup. Tlien rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of synip made from 1 lb. of sugar, clarified and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it ict7/(o"i ceasing, and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set: then add the sliced citron, the currants, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day previously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla) ; to the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pineapple-shaped mould: close the lid, place it again in the freeziug-pan, covered over with pounded ice and salt- petre, and let it remain until required for table ; then turn the pudding out, and serve. DISHES OF FRUIT. These dishes are arranged with much taste. Foliage of various kinds are mixed with the fruits, and among these fern-leaves and grasses are placed.