THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2G9 Preserves little and great thread. If you dip the finger into the sj'rup and apply it to the thumb, the tenacity of the syrup will, on separating the finger and thumb, afford a thread, which shortly breaks : this is the little thread. If the thread, from the greater tenacity, and, conse- quently, greater strength of the syrup, admits of a greater extension of the finger and thumb, it is called the great thread. There are half-a-dozen other terms and experiments for testing the various thickness of the boiling sugar towards the consistency called ca?-a»ie^; but that degree of sugar-boiling belongs to the confectioner. A solution of sugar prepared by dissolving two parts of double-refined sugar (the best sugar is the most economical for preserves) in one of water, and boiling this a little, affords a syrup of the right degree of strength, and which neither ferments nor crystallizes. This appears to be the degree called 4')hoo<A by the confectioners, and is proper to be used for the purposes of preserves. The syrup employed should sometimes be clarified, which is done in the following manner:—Dissolve 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; add to this solution the white of an egg, and beat it well. Put the preserving-pan upon the fire with the solution ; stir it I with a wooden spatula, and when it begins 1 to swell and boil up, throw in some cold I water or a little oil to damp the boiling ; I for, as it rises suddenly, if it should boil over, it would take fire, being of a very inflammable nature. Lot it boil up again ; then take it off, and remove care- fully the scum that has risen. Boil the solution again, throw in a little more cold water, remove the scum, and so on for three or four times successively; then strain it. It is considered to be suffi- ciently boiled when some taken up in a spoon pours out like oil. Although sugar passes so easily into the state of fermentation, and is, in fact, the only substance capable of undergoing the vinous stage of that process, yet it will not ferment at all if the quantity bo sufficient to constitute a very strong syrup: hence, syrups are used to pre- serve fruits and other vegetable sub- stances from the changes they would undergo if left to themselves. Before sugar was in use, honey was employed to ] preserve many vegetable productions, though this substance has now given way iQ the juice of the sugar-caao. Preserves The fruits that are the most fit for preservation in syrup are apricots, peaches, nectarines, apples, greengages, plums of all kinds, and pears. As an example, take some apricots not too ripe, make a small slit at the stem end, and push out the stone ; simmer them in water till they are softened and about half done, and afterwards throw them into cold water. When they have cooled, take them out and drain them. Put the apricots into the preserving-pan with sufficient syrup to cover them ; let them boil up three or four times, and thea skim them ; remove them from the fire, pour them into an earthen pan, and let them cool till next day. Boil them up three days successively, skimming each time, and they will then be finished and in a fit state to be put into pots for use. After each boiling, it is proper to ex- amine into the state of the syrup when cold ; if too thin, it will bear additional boiling; if too thick, it may be lowered with more syrup of the usual standard. The reason why the fruit is emptied out of the preserving-pan into an earthen pan is, that the acid of the fruit acts upon the coppei", of which the preserving- pans are usually made. From this ex- ample the process of preserving fruits by syrup will be easily comprehended. The first object is to soften the fruit by blanching or boiling it in water, in order that the syrup by which it is preserved may penetrate through its substance. Many fruits, when preserved by boil- ing, lose much of their pecuUar and deli- cato flavour, as, for instance, pine-apples; and this inconvenience may, in some in- stances, be remedied by preserving them without heat. Cut the fruit in slices about one-fifth of an inch thick, strew powdered loaf sugar an eighth of an inch thick on the bottom of a jar, and put tha slices on it. Put more sugar on this, and then another layer of the slices, and so on- till the jar is full. Place the jar with the fruit up to the neck in boiling water, and keep it there till the sugar is completely dissolved, which may take half-an-hour, removing the scum as it rises. Lastly, tie a wet bladder over the mouth of the jar, or cork and wax it. Any of tho fraits that have been pre- served in syrup may be converted into diy preserves, by first draining them from tho syruji, and then drying them in a stovo or very moderate oven, adding