7 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Apple Snow APPLE SNOW (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients. — 10 good-sized apples, the whites of 10 eggs, the rind of 1 lemon, I lb. of pounded sugar. Mode. —^Peel, "core, and cut the apples into quarters, and put them into a saucepan •with the lemon-peel, and sufficient water to prevent them from burning,—rather less than l pint. "When they are tender, take out the peel, beat them into a pulp, let them cool, and stir them to the Iwhites of the eggs, which should be pre- jviously beaten to a strong froth. Add jthe sifted sugar, and continue the whisk- png until the mixtm-e becomes quite stiff, land either heap it on a glass dish or feervo it in small glasses. The dish may me garnished with presented barberries or ttrips of bright-coloured jelly, and a dish Ipf custards should be served with it, or Hijug of cream. Time.—From 30 to 40 [minutes to stew the apples. Average \:ost, Is. Qd. Sufficient to fill a moderate- Ikized glass dish. Seasonable from August BO March. kpPLE SNOWBALLS. H Ingredients. — 2 teacupfuls of rice, l.pples, moist sugar, cloves. Mode.— |}oil the rice and milk until three-parts ■ lone ; then strain it ofi", and pare and lore the apples without dividing them. 1,'ut a small quantity of sugar and a clove Ihto each apple, put the rice round them, Kid tie each ball separately in a cloth, ■toil until the apples are tender ; then l\ke them up, remove the cloths, and lervc. Time.—J hour to boil the rice ieparately ; ^ to 1 hour with the apple. measonable from August to March. iiPPLE SOUFFLE. Ulngredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of Hilk, the rind of J lemon, sugar to taste. Be yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 6, lA oz. " butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of apple mar- dade. Mode.—Boil the milk with the inon-peel until the former is well .voured; then strain it, put in the rice, d let it gradually swell over a slow 0, adding sufficient sugar to sweeten it iely. Then crush the rice to a smooth Ip with the back of a wooden spoon ; 18 the bottom and sides of a round ke-tin with it, and put it into the oven ; set; turn it out of the tin dexterously, I Apple Tart and be careful that the border of rice is firm in every part. Mix with the marma- lade the beaten yolks of eggs and the butter, and stir these over the fire until the mixture thickens. Take it off the fire ; to this add the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth ; stir all together, and put it into the rice border. Bake in a moderate oven for about § hour, or until the soufB€ rises very light. It should b© watched, and sei-ved instantly, or it will immediately fall after it is taken from the oven. Time. —^ hour. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient tor 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE TART or PIE. Ingredients. — Puff-paste, apples; to every lb. of unpai-ed apples allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, | teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make puff-paste by either of the given recipes, with ^ lb, of flour ; place a border of it round the edge of a pie-dish, and fill the dish with apples pared, cored, and cut into slices ; sweeten with moist sugar, add the lemon-peel and juice, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water ; cover with crust, cut it evenly round close to the edge of the pie-dish, and bake in a hot oven from ^ to | hour, or rather longer, should the' pie be very large. When it is three-parts done, take it out of the oven, put the white of an egg on a plate, and, with the blade of a knife, whisk it to a froth; brush the pie over with this, then sprinkle upon it some sifted sugar, and then a few drops of water. Put the pie back into the oven, and finish baking, and be particularly careful that it does not catch or biu-n, which _ it is very liable to do after the crust is iced. If made with a plain crust, the icing may be omitted. Many things are suggested for the flavouring of apple pie; some say 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of beer, others the same quantity of sheny, which very much improve the taste ; whilst the old-fashioned addition of a few cloves is, by many persons, preferred to anything else, as also a few slices of quince. Time.—J hour before the cinist is iced; 10 to 15 minutes afterwards. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient.—Allow 2 lbs. of apples to a tart for 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March; but the applea become fjavourlesa after February^,