THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 35S Veal, Hoast Fillet of put the mince in the place where the meat was taken out, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over it, and drop a httle clarified butter on the bread-crumbs; put it into the oven for ^ hour to brown, and pour bechamel round the sides of the dish. Tt'me.—Altogether 1.^ hour. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Boast Fillet of. Ingredients.—Veal, forcemeat, melted butter. Mode.—Have the fillet cut ac- cording to the size requu'ed ; take out the bone, and after raising the skin from the meat, put under the flap a nice force- meat. Prepare sufBcieut of this, as there should be ^ome left to eat cold, and to season and flavour a mince if required. Skewer and bind the veal up in a SILLEX OF TXAIi. round form; dredge well with flour, put it down at some distance from the fire at first, and baste continu- ally. About ^ hour before serving, draw it nearer the fire, that it may acquire more colour, as the outside should be of a rich brown, but not burnt. Dish it, remove the skewers, which replace by a silver one ; pour over the joint some good melted buttei-, and serve with either boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork. Never omit to send a cut lemon to table with roast veal. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 12 lbs., about 4 hours. Aver- age cost, dd. per lb. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, FiUet of. The carving of this joint is similar to that of a round of beef. Slices, not too thick, in the direction of the line 1 to 2 are cut; and the only point to bo careful about is, that the veal be evenly carved. Between the flap and the meat the stuffing is insertedj and Veal, Fricandeau of riUBT OV VBAI/. a small portion of this should be served to eveiy guest. The persons whom the host wishes most to honour should be asked if they like the delicious brown outside slice, as this, by many, is exceed- ingly relished. VEAL, Stewed Fillet of. Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, forcemeat, thickening of butter and flour, a few mushrooms, white pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, 2 blades of pounded mace, h glass of sherry Mode.—If the whole of the leg is pur- chased, take ofl" the knuckle to stew, and also the square end, which will serve for cutlets or pies. Remove the bone, and fill the space with a forcemeat. Roll and skewer it up firmly ; i^lace a few skewers at the bottom of a stewpan to prevent the meat from sticking, and cover the veal with a little weak stock. Let it simmer vary gently until tender, as tha- more slowly veal is stewed, the better. Strain and thicken the sauce, flavour it with lemon-juice, mace, sherry, and whit© pepper; give one boil, and pour it over the meat. The skewers should be re- moved, and I'eplaced by a sQver one, and the dish garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time.—A fillet of veal weighing 6 lbs., 3 hours' very gentle stewing. Average cost, 9cZ. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Fricandeau of (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—A piece of the fat side of a leg of veal (about 3 lbs.), lardoons, 2 carrots, 2 large onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 6 whole allspice, 2 bay-leaves, pepper to taste, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 pint of stock. Mode. —The veal for a ruiCANDEATJ OH VEAIi. fricandeau should be of the best quality, or it will not be good. It may be known by the meat being white and not thready. Take off the skin, flatten the Teal on tho