102 THE DICTIONAllY OF COOKERY. Dessert being oval and circular dislioa on stems. Tho pattorns and colours are also subject to changes of fashion; some persons selecting china, chasto in pattern and colour; others, elegantly-sliaped glass dishes on stems, with gilt edges. The beauty of the dessert services at tho tables of the wealt.liy tends to enhance the splendour of the plate. The general mode of putting a dessert on table, now tho elegant tazzas are fashionable, is, to place them down the middle of the table, a tall and short dish alternately; the fresh fruits being arranged on the tall dishes, and dried fruits, bon-bons, &c., on small round or oval glass plates. The garnishing needs especial attention, as the contrast of the brilliant-coloured fruits ■with nicely-arranged foliage is very charming. The gnrnish j)ar excellence for dessert is the ice-plant; its crysLallizcd dewdrops producing a marvellous effect iu the height of summer, giving a most inviting sense of coolness to the fruit it cncii-cles. Tho double-edged mallow, strawberry, and vine-leaves liaveapleasing effect; and for winter desserts, the baj', Cuba, and laurel are sometimes used. In town, tho expense and difficulty of ob- taining natural foliage is great, but paper and composite loaves are to be purchased at an almost nomiurvl price. Mixed fruits of the larger sort are now frequently served on one dish. This mode admits of the display of much taste in the ar- rangement of the fruit: for instance, a pine in the centre of the dish, surrounded ■with liirge phmis of various sorts and colours, mixed with pears, rosy-cheeked apples, all arranged with a due regard to colour, have a very good effect. Again, apples and pears look well mingled with plums and grapes, hanging from the border of the dish in a n6glig6 sort of manner, with a large bunch of the same fruit lying on the top of the apj^les. A dessert would not now be considered complete without candied and preserved fruits and confections. Tho candied fruits may bo purchased at a less cost than they can be manufactured at home. They are preserved abroad in most orna- mental and elegant forms. And since, from the facihtics of travel, we have be- come so familiar with the t-iblcs of the Frc'nch, chocolate in diO'crcnt forms is indisjicnsable to our desserts. Olives, too, should not be omitted ; these should be served in a small, deep glass dish, with »little of tho liquor, or brine, poured over. Dessert Dishes DESSERT DISHES. Tho tazza, or dish with stem, the same as that shown in our iliustraiious, is now the favourite shape for dessert-dishes. The fruit can be arranged and shown t« better advantage on these tall high dishes than on tho short Hat ones. AH the dishes are now usually placed down the centre of the table, dried and fresh fruit alternately, the former being ar- ranged on small round or oval glass plates, and the latter on the dishes with stems. The fruit should always be ga- thered on the same day that it is required for table, and should be tastefully ar- ranged on the dishes, with leaves between and round it. By purchasing fruits that are in season, a dessert can be supplied at a veiy moderate cost. These, with a few fancy biscuits, crystallized fniit, bon-bons, &c., are sufficient for an ordi- nary dessert. When fresh frait cannot be obtained, dried and foreign fruits, competes, baked pears, stewed Normandy pippins, ka. kc, must supply its place, with the addition of pr^jserves, bon-bons, cakc-B, biscuits, &c. At fashionable ta- bles, forced fruit is served growing in pot:?, these pots being hidden in more ornamental ones, and arranged with tho other dishes. A few vases of fresh (lowers, tastefully arranged, add very much to the appearance of the dessert; and, when these are not obtainable, a few paper ones, mixed with green leaves, answer very well as a substitute. In decorating a table, whether for luncheon, dessert, or supper, a vase or two of flowers should never be forgotten, as they add so much to the elegance of the tout ensemble. In summer and aul umn, ladies residing in the country can always manage to have a few frcshlj'-gathered flowers on their tables, and should never bo without this inexpensive luxury. On the Continent, vases or epergnes filled with flowers sire invariably placed down the centre of the dinner-table at regular distances. Ices for dessert ai'o usually moulded ; when this is not the case, they are handed round in glasses, with wafers to accompany them. Preserved ginger is frequently handed round after ices, to prepare the palate for the delicious des- sert wines. A basin or glass of finely- pounded lump sujrar must never be omit- ted at a dessert, .as also a glass jug of fresh cold water (iced, if possible), and two goblets by its side. Grape scissors,