173 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Kidneys, Fried that the kidneys are fresh, and cut them open, very evenly, lengthwise, down to the root, for should one half bo thicker than the other, on© would be underdone KIDNEYS. whilst the other would be dried, but do Qot separate them; skin them, and pass 1 skewer under the white part of each balf to keep them flat, and broil over a lice clear fire, placing the inside down- wards ; turn them when done enough on one side, and cook them on the other. Elemove the skewers, place the kidneys an a very hot dish, season with pepper md salt, and put a tiny piece of butter n the middle of each; sei-ve very hot ind quickly, and send very hot plates to ^ble. Time.—6 to 8 minutes. Average :ost, Ihd. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for 3ach person. Seasonable at any time. j\'o(e.—A prettier dish than the above Tiay be made by serving the kidneys each jn a piece of buttered toast cut in any fanciful shape. In this case a little oraon-juice will be found an improve- aient. KIDTTEYS, Fried. Ingredients.—Kidneys, butter, pepper, md salt to taste. Mode. —Cut the kidneys jpen without quite dividing them, re- move the skin, and put a small piece of 1 itter in the frying-pan. When the ■ ter is melted, lay in the kidneys the t side downwards, and fry them for 7 8 minutes, turning them when they . 0 half done. Serve on a piece of dry toast, season with pepper and salt, and t a small piece of butter in each tiiey; pour the gravy from the pan r them, and servo very hot. Time.— r 8 minutes. Average cost, l^d. each. iicient.—Allow 1 kidney to each per- il. Seasonable at any time. KIDNEY OMELET (a favourite French. Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of It, i saltspoonful of pepper, 2 sheep's iiieys, or 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ;al kidney, 6 oz. of butter. Mode.— jkin the kidneys, cut them into small lice, and toss tliein in a frying-pan, in Lamb 1 oz. of butter, over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes. Mx the ingredients for tho omelet, and when the eggs are well whisked, stir in the pieces of kidney. Make the butter hot in the frying-pan, OMBLET PAir. and when it bubbles, pour in the omelet, and fry it over a gcintle fire from 4 to 6 minutes. When the eggs are set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet as- sumes an oval form, and be careful that it is not too much done: to brown the top, hold the pan before the fire for a minute or two, or use a salamander until the desired colour is obtained, but never tura an omelet in the pan. Slip it care- fully on to a very hot dish, or, what is a much safer method, put a dish on the omelet, and turn the pan quickly over. It should be served the instant it comes from the fire. Time.—4 to 6 minutes. Averaff C cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. KIDNEYS, Stewed. Ingredients.—About 8 kidneys, a large dessertspoonful of chopped herbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little gravy, juice of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce and mush- room ketchup, cayenne, and salt to taste. Mode.—Strew the herbs, with cayenne and salt, over the kidneys, melt the butter in the frying-pan, put in the kidneys, and brown them nicely all round; when nearly done, stir in the flour, and shake them well; now add the gravy and sau?o, and stew them for a few minutes, then turn them out into a dish garnished with fried sippets, Time.—\Q or 12 minutes. Seasonable at any time. LAMB. Tho most delicious sorts of lamb are those of tho South-Down breed, known by their black feet; and of these, those which have been exclusively suckled on the milk of the parent ewe, are consi- dered tho finest. Next to these in esti- mation are those fed on tho milk of several damsj and last of all, thougk