800 THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKER?. Salmon, Boiled for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. SALMON, BoUed. Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water,—sufBcient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, and be particular that no blood is left insido ; lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, adding salt in the above proportion. Bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, and let it simmer gently till the fish is done, which will be when the meat sepa- rates easily from the bone. Experience alono can teach the cook to fix the time for boiling fish ; but it is especially to be remembered, that it should never be under-dressed, as then nothing is more unwholesome. Neither let it remain in the kettle after it is sufficiently cooked, as that would render, it insipid, watery, and colourless. Drain it, and if not wanted for a few minutes, keep it warm by means of warm cloths laid over it. Sei^ve on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and parsley, and send lobster or shrimp sauce, and j)lain melted butter to table with it. A dish of dressed cucum- ber usuallj' accompanies this fish. Time. —8 minutes to each lb. for large thick salmon ; 6 minutes for thin fish. Aver- age cost, in full season. Is. 2d. per lb. Sufficient, h lb., or rather less, for each person' Seasonable from April to August. Note.—Cut lemon should be put on the table with this fish ; and a little of the juice squeezed over it is regarded by many persons as a most agrccablo addi- tion. JBoiled peas are also, by some con- noisseurs, considered especially adapted to bo sei'ved with salmon. To Choose Salmon.—To be good, the belly should bo firm and thick, which may readily bo ascertained by feel- ing it with the thumb and finger. The circumstance of this fish having red gills, though given as a standing rule in most cookery-books, as a sign of its goodness, is not at all to bo relied on, as this quality can bo easily given them by art. SAIiMON AND CAPEB, SAUCE. Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, \ lb. butter, .i, teaspoonfulof chopped parsley, 1 shalot'; salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg to tasto. Mode.—h&j the salmon Salmon, Curried in a baking-dish, place pieces of butter over it, and add the other ingredients, rubbing a little of the seasoning into the fish; baste it frequently; when done, take it out and drain for a minute or two ; lay it in a dish, pour caper sauce over it, and serve. Salmon dressed in: this waj', with tpmato sauce, is very delicious. ?'me. —About ^ hour. Aver.- age cost, Is. Zd. per lb. Sufficient for 41 or 6 persons. Seasonable from April to > August. SALMON". Collared. Ingredients.—A piece of salmon, say 31b., a high seasoning of salt, pounded mace, and pepper; water and vinegar, 3 bay-leaves. Mode.—Split the fish; scale, bone, and wash it thoroughly clean ; wipe it, and rub in the season- ing inside and out; roll it up, and bind firmly ; lay it in a kettle, cover it with vinegar and water vinegar, in pro. portion to the water); add the bay- leaves and a good seasoning of salt and whole pepper, and simmer till done. Do not remove the lid. Serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce. For pre- serving the collared fish, boil up the liquor in which it was cooked, and add a little more vinegar. Pour over when cold. Time.—^ hour, or rather more. SALMON", Crimped. Salmon is frequently dressed in this way at many fashionable tables, but must be very fresh, and cut into shoes 2 or 3 inches thick. Lay these in cold salt and water for 1 hour; have ready some boiling water, salted, and well skimmed; put in the fish, and simmer gently for | hour, or rather more; should it be very thick, garnish the same as boiled salmon, and serve with the same sauces. Time.—^ hour, more or les% according to size. Note.—Never use vinegar with salmon, as it spoils the taste and colour of the fish. SALMON, Curried. Ingredients.—Any remains of boiled salmon, '>i pint of strong or medium stock, 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of curry- powder, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, 1 toiispoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 oz. of butter, the juice of A lemon, cayenno and salt to taste. Alode.^-Cni up the