THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 8o2 Turnips in White Sauce Pare the turnips, quarter them, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; boil them until tender; then drain them in a colander, and squeeze them as dry as possible by pressing thom with the back of a large plate. When quite free from water, rub the turnips with a wooden spoon through the colander, and put tbem into a very clean saucepan; add the butter, white pepper, or cayenne, and, if necessary, a little salt. Keep stirring them over the fire until the butter is well mixed with them, and the turnips are thoroughly hot; dish, and serve. A little cream or milk added after the turnips are pressed through the colander, is an improvement to both the colour and flavour of this vegetable. Time.—From i to | hour to boil the turnips; 10 minutes to warm them through. Average, cost, M, per bunch. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. SeasonaUe.—Maybe had all the year; but in early spring only good for flavouring gravies. TUBNIPS TN WHITE SAUCE. (An Entremets, or to be served with the Second Course as a Side- dish.) of Ingredients.—7 or 8 turnips, 1 oa butter, I pint of white sauce. Mode.— Peel and cut the turnips in the shape of pears or marbles ; boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a little butter, until tender; then take them out, drain, ai'range them on a dish, and pour over the white sauce made by either of the recipes, and to which has been added a small lump of sugar. In winter, when other vegetables are scarce, this will be found a very good and pretty- when approved, a little be added to the sauce. I hour to boil the turnips. id. per bunch. Sufficient SeasonaUe in winter. looking dish: mustard may Time.—About A'verage cost, tor 1 side dish. VANILLA CTJSTABD SAUCE, to serve with Puddings. Inqredienls.—\ pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 cz. of sugar, 10 drops of essence of vanilla. jJ/ode.—Beat the eggs, sweeten the milk ; etir these ingredients well together, and flavour them with essence of vanilla, regulating the proportion of this latter ingredient by the strength of the essence, the Bize of the eggs, &c. Put the mixture Veal, Breast of, to Carve into a small jug, place this jug in a sauce pan of boiling water, and stir the sauc one way until it thickens; but do nc allow it to boil, or it will instantl curdle. Serve in a boat or tureen sepai rately, with plum, bread, or any kincf c dry pudding. Essence of bitter almond or lemon-rind may be substituted for tbJ vanilla, when they are more in accordanc with the flavouring of the pudding witv which the sauce is intended to be served! Time.—To be stirred in t'ao jug from to 10 minutes. Average cost, id. Su^ dent for 4 or 5 persons, VEAL, Baked (Cold Meat Cookery/) Ingredients.—^ lb, of cold roast veal, few slices of baoon, 1 pint of breaci crumbs, ^ pint of good veal gravy, teaspoontul of minced lemon-peel, 1 bladi of pounded mace, cayenne and salt t; taste, 4 eggs. Mode.—Mince finely thii veal and bacon; add the bread-crumbee gravy, and seasoning, and stir thes^ ingredients well together. Beat up th eggs thoroughly; add these, mix thai whole well together, put into a dish, ana br.ke from | to 1 hour. When liked, little good gravy may be served in tureen as an accompaniment. Time.— from 5 to 1 hour. Avei'age cost, exclusive of the cold meat, Qd. Sufficient for 3 ca 4 persons. Seasonable from March tl October, f VEAL, Boast Breast of. Ingredients. — Veal ; a little flo Mode.—W&sh. the veal, well wipe it, am dredge it with flour; put it down to f|<i bright fire, not too near, as it should nc be scorched. Baste it plentifully unt' done ; dish it, pour over the meat som good melted butter, and send to tabl' with it a piece of boiled bacon and a ci lemon. Time.—From 1^ to 2 hourf«j. Average cost, S^d. per lb. Sufficient fc j^ 5 or 6 persons, " ScasonahU from M; to October. ||] VEAL, Breast of, to Carve. The car%nng of a breast of veal is nci dissimilar to that of a fore-quarter <^ lamb, when the shoulder has been tak«l olF. The breast of veal consists ot tx parts, — the rib-bones and the grist brisket. These two parts should first H separated by sharplv passing the knif in the direction of the linos 1, 2; whe