THE dictionahy of cookery 156 Ilare, Boast, to Carvo is almost roasted enough, flour the bare, nnd haste well with butter. When nicely frothed, dish it, remove the skewers, and send it to ttib'o with a liti.lo gravy in tlio dish, and a tureen of the same. Ked-currant jelly must also not be for- gotten, as this is an indispensable ac- companiment to roast hare. For eco- nomj', good beef dripping may be sub- Btitnted for the milk and butter to basto with ; but the biistinjj, as we have he- fore stated, must be continued without intermission. If the liver is good, it may be parboiled, minced, and mixed with the stuffing; but it should not he used unless quite fresh. Time.—A mid- dling-sizeii hare, 1^ hour; a large hare, Ih to 2 hours. Average cost, from 4s. to 6s. Siifficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season- able from So]ptember to the ond of Feb- ruary. IIA.RE, Hoast, to Carve. The " Grand Carver " of olden times, a functionary of no ordinary dignity, was pleased when he had a hare to manipu- late, for his skill and grace had an opportunity or' display. Dbiers d la liusse may possibly, ere- while, save modern gentlemen the neces- sity of learning the art which was in auld lang syne one of the necessary accom- plishments of the youthful squire ; but, until side-tables become universal, or till we see the office of "grand carver" once mor" instituted, it will be well for all to learn how to assist at the carving of this dish, which, if not the most elegant in appoar.ance, is a very general favourite. The hare, having its head to the left, as shown in the woodcut, should he first sei-ved by cutting slices from each side of the backbone, in the direction of the lines from 3 to 4. After these prime parts are disposed of, the log should next be disengaged by cuttina: round the line indicated by the figures 5 to 6. The shoulders will then be taken off by pass- ing the knife round from 7 to 8. The liack of the hare should now be divided by cutting quite through its spine, as shown by tho line 1 to 2, taking care to feel with the point of the knife for a )oiut whore tlio bac)£ may bo readily BOAST HABB. Herb Powder penetrated. It is tho usual plan not too serve any hone in helping hare; and thus tho flesh should bo sliced from tho legs and placed nlono on tho plato. lu largo establishments, and where men. cooks are kept, it is often tho cuso that the backbone of tho hare, especially in old animals, is taken out, and then the process of carving is, of course, con- siderably facilitated. A great point to be remembered in connection with carv- ing hare is, that plenty of gravy should accompany each helping, otherwise this ^ dish, which is naturally dry, will loso half its flavour, and so become a failure.;. Stuffing is also served with it; and tha» ears, which should be nicely crisp, and! the brains of the hare, are esteemed aS4 delicacies by many connoisseurs. ;<ii< hi! HAEE SOUP Ingredients.—A hare fresh-killed, 1 Ib.>. it of lean gravy-beef, a slice of ham, 11 ^aj carrot, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury;! Bo herbs, ^ oz. of whole black pepper, little browned flour, ^ pint of port wi the crumb of two French rolls, salt aoi cayenne to taste, 3 quarts of wai Mode.—Skin and paunch the hare, ing the liver and as much blood as po: ble. Cut it in pieces, and put it in stewpan with all tho ingredients, simmer gently for 6 hours. This & should be made tho day before it wanted. Strain through a sieve, puttl best parts of tho hare in the soup, serve. HARE SOUP. Proceed as above ; but, instead of put-VI'*' ting the joints of the hare in the soup, [ pick tho meat from the bones, pound it . in a mortar, and add it, with tho cnimb ^ of two French rolls, to tho soup. Rub all through a sieve ; heat slowly, Imt dr . not let it boil. Send it to table i- diatoly. Time.—8 hours. Arm' Is. 9d. per quart. Seasonahle from tcmbur to February. Sufficient for 10 i persons. HERB POWDER, for Flavouring ' when Fresh Herbs are not ob- \ taiuable. i Ingredients. — 1 oz. of dried lemon* thyrne, 1 oz. of dried winter savory, 1 oz. of dried sweet marjonim and 2 oz. of dried parsley, 1 oz. of ■