Philosophy of Housekeeping, table and chimne}'piece. She will also roll up and remove the strips of carpeting and hearth-rug, the fender and fire-irons, and any small portable articles of furniture. 343. Then, having brought up a sweeping-brush, dustpan, and some damp tea- leaves, she will sweep the room, beginning at the door, going into all the corners, and bringing the dust to the hearthstone, from which she will collect and remove it. She should also remove the dustpan and sweeping-brush, and shut the room door. 344. Although on ordinary days the staircase is not swept down until all the bed- rooms are done, on these " thorough cleaning" days it is best to do it immediately after this sweeping, because while the dust is settling there, nothing else can be done in the room. 345. The dust having settled, she should return, bringing with her the housemaid's box, a small pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and piece of Bath brick. 346. She should then clean the grate, proceeding in the same manner as with the breakfast-parlour grate, and wash and whiten the hearthstone, 347. She should then thoroughly dust the room, wiping every article of furniture carefully, wiping down the walls with a clean duster tied over a sweeping-brush, going all round the cornice and over the door. She should also dust the window- panes, sills, and ledges. 348. The dusting being done, she should take downstairs the housemaid's box, the sweeping-brush and dusters, the house-flannel and Bath brick, and bring up a large clean bowl, a can of hot water, a piece of soap, some washing soda, a piece of clean flannel, a sponge, a clean basin-cloth, and a clean linen glass-cloth. 349. She should then thoroughly wash, with soap, soda, and warm water, all the washing-table apparatus, and wipe them thoroughly dry; the water- bottle and tumbler should bo wiped with the glass-cloth. She should also wash down the marble top of the wnshstand with warm soap and water and the flannel. 350. She should then clean the windows. 351. Two leathers, two pails of cold water. Rub the windows up and down with a leather dipped in cold water, until all dirt, dust, and stains have disap- pearod, then, with a clean leather and fresh water, rub down one way only, and leave the glass to dry.