xxvill Philosophy of Housekeeping. mended at once, and paid for at once ; this saves much trouble, and is cousidet ably cheaper than having carpenter's and glazing jobs booked, 1C4. Turn out every box, cupboard, and corner in the house-cleining. Separ all stores required for or likely to be useful in needlework, and keep these in f rolls or parcels in a drawer known as the work-drawer. Wash out and fill inkstands once a week. Few writers like much ink in the inkstand ; half an in deep is quite enough for ordinary writing for a week, and more than enough spill if thei'e is an accident with the inkstand. 165. Warm skirts and cloth jackets should be bung out in the air, and w beaten with a light cane, and stored with plenty of camphor in presses or box Muslin dresses and petticoats should take the place of the heavier garments, a notable housewives prepare in May their summer costumes for the children and fi themselves. The little ones look best and are happiest in holland frocks a: blouses, or knickerbocker suits of brown holland. Boys of five and six w require four suits a week of these. Little girls are more reasonable, and can kept in nice order with three suits weekly. We are, of course, speaking £ children who are allowed to play about a garden and enjoy themselves. WM piquS, nicely braiHed, makes good best summer clothing for both boys and gir Straw hats for both, but while girls want pretty little wreaths of flowers, a pi ribbon does for Master Jack ; but that ribbon should match the little bow beneath his clean linen collar. 166. Muslin, holland, or print costumes are nice for morning wear, for ladi costumes should always be made in accordance with the time they ai"e to be wo Many ladies in the country do not change their dress until late in the day ; tl morning costume should then be made in dressy style ; but if it is discard( before the children's early dinner, it should be as plain as possible, althouf abvays neat and pretty. 167. All cloth, merino, and stuff dresses which are worn daily should be h out for one day in each week in the open air, beaten lightly with a cane, and w brushed, folded, and put away. This cleansing and rest keeps the dress fr and pleasant, and makes it look better and wear longer than if this little care neglected. 168. A fresh ribbon, a new collar, some variety in one's ornament, makes refreshing change to the eyes of our family. Variety should be studied for t sake of pleasing and cheering those who work for us and with us. 169. In tho evening various amusements should bo allowed in a family—mu cards, reading, games, such as chess, draughts, jacquet, backgammon, &c. good romp with the little ones is a healthy amusement for every one who