215 ffiE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUY. November—Bills of Fare Second Course. Haunch of Mutton. Cold Game Pie. t-i ns a S; 5* w Vase of Flowers, Boiled Ham. Boiled Turkey and Celery Sauce. at o P4 Third Courie. "S. p hi o O 3 a 2 Partridges, removed by Plum-pudding. Wine Jelly. Vase of Flowers. -t ^ Blancmange. Snipes, removed by Charlotte glac^e. a . o o ,£3 3 <1 Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. First Cotirse. — Haro soup; Julienne soup ; baked cod ; soles hi Normandie. E)drees. -\\\z do veau aux tomates ; lob- ster patties ; mutton cutlets and Soubise sauce ; crodtades of marrow aux fines herbes. Second Coitj-se. —Roast sirluin of beef; braised goose ; boiled fowls and celery sauce; bacon-check, garnished with sprouts. Third Course. —Wild ducks; partridges ; apples la IVrtngaise ; Ba- varian cream ; apricot-jam sandwiches ; cheesecakes; Charlotte k la vanille; plum-pudding ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny soup ; fried slices of codfish and oyster sauce ; eels en matelote. Enireei. — Broiled pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; tendrons de veau h. la jardiniere. Second Courie. November, Plain Family Dinners —Boiled leg of mutton and vegetables; roast goose; cold game pie. Coitm.—Snipes; teal; apple souffle; iced Charlotte; tartlets, jhampagne jelly ; coffee cream ; mince pies; dessert and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First CoMJ-se.—Oyster soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce; fried perch and Dutch sauce. £n<recs.—Pigs' feet li la Bechamel; curried rabbit. Second Coicrse. — Koast sucking-pig; boiled fowls and oyster sauce ; vegetables. Third Course. —Jugged hare ; meringues h, la crfirae; a|iplo custard; vol-au-vent of pears; whipped cream ; cabinet pudding ; dessert. First Coiirse.—Game soup ; slices of codfish and Dutcb sauce; fried eels. Entrees.—Kidneys h.\a Maltre d'Botel; oyster patties. Second Course.—Saddle of mutton ; boiled capon and rice ; small ham ; lark pudding. Third Course.— Roast hare; apple tart; pineapple cream ; clear jelly ; cheesecakes ; mar- row pudding; Nessebrode pudding; dessert. NOVEMBEB, Plain Family Din- ners for. Sunday.—1. White soup. 2. Roast haunch of mutton, haricot beans, po- tatoes. 3. Apple tart, ginger pud- ding. Monday.—1. Stewed eels. 2. Veal cutlets garnished with rolled bacon : cold mutton aud wiuter salad. 3. Bakeo rice pudding. Tttesday.— 1. Roast fowls, garnished with wiiter-cresses ; boiled bacon-cheek ; hashed mutton from remains of haunch. 2. A]iple pudding. Wednesday.—1. Boiled leg of pork, carrots, parsnips, and pease-pndding; fowl croquettes made with remainder of cold fowl. 2. Baroness pudding. Thursday. — 1. Cold pork and maslied potatoes; roast partridges, broad sauce and gravy. 2. The remainder of the pudding cut into neat slices, and warmed through, and served with sifted s\igar sprinkled over; apple fritters.