282 THE DIOTIONAUY OP COOKERY. Baised Pie, of Veal and Ham but the birds must always be boned. TrufHes, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer ; and, to enrich it, lard the fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is generally called a iimbale, and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands; the crust, besides, being eatable. Time.—Large pie, 4 hours. Average cost, 6s. 6d. Seasonable, with poultry, all the year; with game, from September to March. BAISED PIE, of Veal and Ham, Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of veal cutlets, a few slices of bacon or ham, seasoning of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and allspice, forcemeat, 2 lbs. of hot-water paste, ^ pint of good strong gravy. Mode.—To raise the crust for a pie with the hands is a very difficult task, and can only be accomplished by skilled and experienced cooks. The process should be seen to be satisfactorily learnt, and plenty of practice given to the making of raised pies, as by that means only will success be insured. Make a hot-water paste by BAISED FIS. recipe, and from the mass raise the pie with the hands ; if this cannot be accom- Elished, cut out pieces for the top and ottom, and a long piece for the sides; fasten the bottom and side-piece together by means of egg, and pinch the edges well together; then lino the pie with forcemeat, put in a layer of veal, and a plentiful seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and allspice ; for, let it be re- membered, these pies taste very insipid unless highly seasoned. Over tho sea- soning place a layer of sliced bacon or cooked ham, and then a layer of force- meat, veal seasoning, and bacon, and so on until tho meat rises to about an inch above the paste ; taking care to finish with a layer of forcemeat, to fill all tho cavities of th-s pie, aud to lay in tlio moat Baisin Pudding, Boiled firmly and compactly. Brush tho top edge of the pie with beaten egg, put on the cover, press the edges, and pinch them round with paste-pincers. Make a hole in the middle of the lid, and orna- ment the pie with leaves, which should be stuck on with the whiteof an egg; then brush it all over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake the pie in an oven with a soaking heat from 3 to 4 hours. To ascertain when it is done, run a sharp- poiutod knife or skewer through the hole at the top into the middle of the pie, and if the meat feels tender, it is suffi- ciently baked. Have ready about h pint of very strong gravy, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top, stop up the hole with a small leaf of baked paste, and put the pie away until wanted for use. Should it acquire too much colour in the baking, cover it with white paper, as the crust should not in the • least degree be burnt. Mushrooms, truffles, and many other ingredients, may be added to enrich the flavour of these pies, and the very fleshy parts of the meat may be larded. These pies are' more frequently served cold than hot,. and form excellent dishes for cold I suppers or breakfasts. The cover of the ; pie is sometimes carefully removed,, leaving the perfect edges, and the top > decorated with square pieces of very • bright aspic jelly: this has an exceed- ingly pretty effect. Time.—About 4 •. hours. Average cost, 6s. 6d. Sufficient for a very large pie. Seasonable from March to October. BAISIN CHEESE. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raisins, allow h lb. of loaf sugar; pounded, cinnamon and cloves to taste. Mode.— Stone tho raisins; put them into s i stewpan with tho sugar, cinnamon, and cloves, and let them boil for 1^ hour, stirring all the time. Let the prepa- ration cool a little, pour it into a glass dish, and garnish with strips of candid lemon-peel and citron. This will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost,^d. Suffi- cient.—! lb. for 4 or 5 persons. SeasoTi- able at any time. BAISIN" PUDDING, BoUed. (Plain and Economical). Inqredien(s.—l lb. of flour, i lb. of. stoned raisins, J lb, of chopped suet, i