a:HE DICTlONAEY OF COOKER"?. Currants, Iced CUBBANTS, Iced, for Dessert. Ingredients.—^ pint of water, the whites of 2 eggs, currants, pounded sugar. Mode.—Select very fine bunches of red or white currants, and well beat the whites of the eggs. Mix these with the water; then talce the currants, a bimch at a time, and dip them in; let them drain for a minute or two, and roll them in very fine-pounded sugar. Lay them to dry on paper, when the sugar will crystallize round each ciurant, and have a very pretty effect. All fresh fruit may be prepared in the same man- ner ; and a mixture of various fruits iced in this manner, and arranged on one dish, looks very well for a summer dessert. Time.—| day to dry the fruit. Average cost, Sd. for a pint of iced cur- rants. Seasonable in summer. CUBBY. Ingredients. —VeaJ, mutton, fowl, or rabbit; a large onion, butter, brown gi'avy or stock, a tablespoonful of curry- powder. Mode.—Let the meat be half fried. Cut the onion into small pieces, and fry it in butter till quite brown ; add the meat, with a small quantity of brown gravy or stock, also the cm-ry-powder, and stew all for about 20 minutes. This is for a dry curry; more gravy and curry- powder can be used if preferred. Time, —20 minutes. Seasonable at any time. CUBBY ST. LEOWABDS. Ingredients.—Chicken, or any meat; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of curry-powder, 4 or 5 leaves of mint, a teacup of good gravy, salt, a dessertspoonful of vinegar, 3 tablespoon- fuls of cream. Mode.—Fry together for 10 minutes the butter, curry-powder, and mint; then add the meat cut into dice, also the gravy, salt, and vinegar. Let all these simmer for 20 minutes, and then pour over the cream, and serve quite hot. Tinie.—SOminutos. Seasonable at any time. CUBBY-POWDEB (Founded on Dr. Kitchener's Becipe). Ingredients.—^ lb. of coriander-seed, i lb. of turmeric, 2 oz. of cinnamon- seed, .J oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. of mustard, 1 oz. of ground ginger, ^ ounce of all- spice, 2 oz. of fenugreek seed. Mode.— Put all the ingredients in a cool oven. Custards, Boiled where they should remain one night; then pound them in a mortar, rub them through a sieve, and mix thoroughly together; keep the powder in a bottle, from which the air should be completely excluded. CUBBY-POWDEB (Capt. White's Becipe; most excellent). Ingredients.—1 lb. of pale turmeric seed, 4 oz, of cumming seed, 8 oz. of coriander seed, 4 oz. of black pepper, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper, 4 oz. of Jamaica ginger, 10 oz. of caraway seed, \ oz. of cardamums. Mode.—Mix together all these ingredients, well pounded, and then place the mixture in the sun, or before the fire, stirring it frequently. Average cost, 5s. 2d. Note.—This will be found a most excel- lent cm-ry-powder, if care be. taken to purchase the ingredients at a good druggist's. CUSTABDS, BoUed. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 laiu-el-leaves, or the riud of | lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar and which- ever of the above flavourings may be pre- ferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most deliciously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is v/ell flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin; CUSTAEDS IN GLASSBfl. whisk the eggs well, and, when the milk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire ; keep stirring the custard one way untH it thickens; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, stir in_ the brandy, and when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-pai-ts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the dish ia ready for table. To make custai-ds look