846 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Tripe, to Dress proforred ; take out the spare rice, and fill the space wilh boiled custard. Blanch and cut the almonds into strips ; stick them over the trifle, and garnish it with pieces of bright-coloured jelly, or pre- served fruits, or candied citron. Time.— \ hour to simmer the milk, 5 minutes after the rice is added. Averar/ecosl, Is. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time. TKIPE, to Dress. Inrjredients.—Tripe, onion sauce, milk and water. Mode.—Ascertain that the tripe is quite fresh, and have it cleaned and dressed. Cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it in equal proportions of milk and water for J hour. Should the tripe be entirely undressed, more than double that time should be allowed'for it. Have ready some onion sauce, made by our given recipe, dish the ti-ipe, smother it with the sauce, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Time.—f hour; for undressed tripe, from 2.^ to three hours. Average cost, Id, per lb. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Tripe may be dressed in a variety of ways : it may be cut in pieces and fried in batter, stewed in gravy with mushrooms, or cut into collops, sprinkled with minced onion and savoury herbs, and fried a nice brown in clarified butter. THOUT, Stewed. Ingredients.—2 middling-sized trout, }, onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of medium stock, 1 glass of port wine, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Wash the fish very clean, and wipe it quite dry. Lay it in a stewpan, with all the ingredients but the butter and flour, and simmer gently for h hour, or rather more, should not the fish be quite done. Take it out, strain the gravy, add the thickening, and stir it over a sharp fire for 6 minutes; pour it over Ibe trout, and sen-e. 2'ime.— According to size, h hour or more. A ver- atje cost.—Seldom'bought. Seasonable from May to September, and fatter from the middle to the end of August than at any other time. Sufficient for 4 persons. Trout may bo served with anchovy or caper sauce, baked in buttered paper, or fried whole liko smelts. Trout dressed i), Truffles, Italian Mode of Dressing la G€n6ve80 is extremely delicate; for this proceed the same as with sal moo, TRUFFLES, to Drese, with Cham- pagne. Ingredients.—12 fine black imf^en, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 glasses of champagne, A pint of stock. Mode.— Carefully select the truffles, reject those that have a musty smell, and wash them well with a brush, in cold water only, until perfectly clean. Put the bacon into a stewpan, with the truffles and the remaining ingredients ; simmer these gently for an hour, and let the whole cool in the stewpan. When to be served, ro- warra them, and drain them on a cleaa cloth J then arrange them on a delicately white napkin, that it may contrast as strongly as possible with the trufiles, and serve. The trimmings of truSles are used to flavour gravies, stock, sauces, &c. ; and are an excellent addition to ■ ragofits, made dishes of fowl, &c. Time. —1 hour. Average cost.—Not ofteu . bought in this country. Seasonable from > November to March. TRUFFLES A L'lTALIENITE. higredienls.—10 truffles, 1 tablespoon-' ful of minced parsley, 1 minced shalot, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good brown gravy, the juice of h lemon, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Wash the truffles and cut them ; into slices about the size of a penny- piece ; put them into a frying-pan, with the parsley, shalot, salt, pepper, and 1 oz. of butter; stir them over the fire, that they may all be equally done, whicli will be in about 10 minutes, and drain of! some of the butter; then add a little more fresh butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, the juice of lemon, and a little cayenne; stir over the fire until the whole is on the point of boiling, when serve. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average cos<.—Not ofteu bought in this- country. Seasonable from November to March. TRUFFLES, ItaUan Mode of Dressing. Ingredients.—10 tnifflos, i pint of s£^lad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, j:|