876 Philosophy of Housekeeping, ^ and keep well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. A few minutes bofo.j ., serving, dredge lightly with flour, to make it froth and look plump; and wh«4 the steam draws towards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, withn good brown gravy poured round but not over the duck, and a little of the sana '• in a turooa. When in season, green peas should invariably accompany tbii ^'^ dish. ii' BOILED TURKEY, ^' (it: Ingredients.—Turkey, forcemeat, bacon. .w Choosiuff and Trussinr/.—Hen turkeys are preferable for boiling, on accouw * of their whiteness and tenderness, and one of moderate size should be selectet^ as a large one is not suitable for this mode of cooking. They should not I i« dressed until they have been killed 3 or 4 days, as they will neither look whit<j *f nor will they be tender. Pluck the bird, carefully draw, and singe it with a piec-o «''■ of paper ; wash it inside and out, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. Ci. c ofif the head and neck, draw the strings or sinews of the thighs, and cut off tl legs at the first jeint; draw the legs into the body, fill the breast with forcemeat run a skewer through the wing and the middle joint of the leg, quite into the le and wing on the opposite side ; break the breastbone, and make the bird loo ,^ as round and as compact as possible. j. Mode.—Put the turkey into suf&cient Jiot water to cover it; let it come t ' ^ a boil, then carefully remove all the scum: if this is attended to, there is n- < '= occasion to boil the bird in a floured cloth ; but it should be well covered wit : ^ the water. Let it simmer very gently for about 1^ hour to 1^^ hour, according t > it the size, and serve with either white, celery, oyster, or mushroom sauce, o i " parsley-and-butter, a little of which should be poured over the turkey. Boilc' ham, bacon, tongue, or pickled pork, should always accompany this di.sh ; ani i when oyster sauce is served, the tm-key should be stuCfed with oyster force }' meat. ROAST TURKEY. iNGREcnsNTS.—Turkey, forcemeat, sausages. Mode.—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the bird, put i down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer) and keep it well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. About ^ hour befon : serviug, remove the paper, dredge the turkey lightly with flour, and put a piec of butter into the basting-ladle ; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown grav} and one of bread sauce. Fried sausages are a favourite addition to roast turkey they make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. Whei these are not at hand, a few forcemeat balls should be placed round the dish a; a garnish. Turkey may also be stuffed with sausage-meat, and a chestnut force meat with the same sauce is, by many persons, much esteemed as an accompani- ment to this favourite dish.