204 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Muslu'ooms, Stowed boiled away, and tlioy have bocomo quite dry, but bo careful in not allowing them to stick to the bottom of the stewpan. When done, put them into pots, and pour over tho top clarified butter. If wanted for immediate use, they will keep good a few days without being co- vered over. To re-warm them, put the mushrooms into a stdwpan, strain the butter from them, and they will be ready for use. Average cost, Id. each. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in Sep- tember and October; cultivated mush- rooms may bo had at any time. MUSHROOMS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 1 pint mushi-oom-but- tons, 3 oz. of fresh butter, white pepper and salt to taste, lemon-juice, 1 tea- spoonful of flour, cream or milk, ^ tea- spoonfid of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Cut off the ends of the stalks, and pare neatly a pint of mushroom-buttons; put them into a basin of water, with a little lemon juice, as they are done. When all are prepared, take them froni the water with the hands, to avoid the sedi- ment, and jDut them into a stewpan with the fresh butter, white pepper, salt, and the juice of h lemon; cover the pan closely, and let the mushrooms stew gently from 20 to 25 minutes; then thicken the butter with the above pro- portion of flour, add gradually suffi- cient cream, or cream and milk, to make the sauce of a proper consistency, and put in tho grated nutmeg. If tho mushrooms are not perfectly tender, stew them for 5 minutes longer, remove every pavticlo of butter which may be floating on the top, and serve. Time.— ^ hour. Average cost, from 9c?. to 25. per pint. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable.—Meadow mushrooms in Sep- tember and October. MUSHROOMS, Stewed in Gravy. Ingredients.—1 pint of mushroom-but- tons, 1 pint of brown gravy, \ teaspoon- ful of grated nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Make a pint of brown gravy, cut nearly all tho stalks away Irom the mushrooms and peel the tops ; put them into a stewpan, with the gravy, and simmer them gently from 20 minutes to ^ hour. Add tho nutmeg and a scison- ing of cayenne and salt, and servo very hot. Time.—20 minutes to J hour. Average cost, 9d. to 2t. per pint. Sufficient, for 6 Mustard, Tartar or G persons. Seasonable. — Meadow mushrooms in September and October. MUSTARD, How to Mix. Ingredients.—Mustard, salt and water. Mode. — Mustard should bo mixed with water that has been boiled and al- lowed to cool; hot water destroys its essential properties, and raw cold water might cause it to ferment. Put tho mustard into a cup, with a small pinch of salt, and mix with it very gradually suf- ficient boiled water to make it drop from the spoon without being watery. Stir and mix well, and rub the lumps well down with the back of a spoon, as well- mixed mustard should bo perfectly free from these. The mustard-pot should not be more than half-full, or rather less if it will not be used for a day or two, as it is so much better when it is freshly mixed. MUSTARD, Indian, an excellent ReUsh. to Bread and Butter, or any cold Meat. Ingredients.—| lb. of the best mustard, I lb. of flour, A oz. of salt, 4 shalots, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 4 tablespoon- fuls of ketchup, ^ bottle of anchovy sauce. Mode.—Put the mustard, flour, and salt into a basin, and make them into a stiff paste with boiling water. Boil the shalots with the vinegar, ket- chup, and anchovy sauce, for 10 minutes, and pour the whole, boiling, over tha mixture in the basin ; stir well, and re- duce it to a proper thickness ; put It into a bottle, with a bruised shalot at tho bottom, and store away for use. This makes an excellent relish, and if pro* perly prepared will keep for years. MUSTARD, Tartar. Ingredients. —Hoi'seradish vinegar] cayenne, a teacupful of mustard. Model —Have ready sufScient horseradish vine- gar to mix with the above proportion of mustard; put the mustard into a r with a slight seasoning of cayenne ; ; > it perfectly smooth with the viDC!.'a:-, adding this a little at a time ; rub do ■ n with the back of a spoon any lumps 1 may appear, and do not let it be thin. Mustard may bo flavoured various ways, witii Tarragon, sliui i, celery, and many other vinegars, herbs, spices, ^Q,