83 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Coffee, Simple Method COFFEE, Simple Method of Making. Ingredients.—Allow § oz., or 1 table- spoonful, of coffee to each person ; to every oz. allow h pint of water. Mode. —Have a small ii-on ring made to fit the top of the coffee-pot inside, and to this ring sew a smaU muslin bag (the muslin for the purpose must not be too thin). Fit the bag into the pot, wai-m the pot with some boiling water; throw this away, and put the ground coffee into the bag; pour over as much boiling water as is required, close the lid, and, when all the water has filtered through, remove the bag, and send the coffee to table. Making it in this manner prevents the necessity of pouring the coffee from one vessel to another, which cools and spoils it. The water should be poured on the coffee gradually, so that the infusion may be stronger ; and the bag must be well made, that none of the grounds may escape thi'ough the seams, and so make the coffee thick and muddy. Sufficient. —Allow 1 tablespoonful, or ^ oz., to each person, COFFEE, to Make. Ingredients.—Allow h oz., or 1 table- spoonful, of ground coffee to each per- son ; to every oz, of coffee allow ^ pint of water. Mode.—To make coffee good, it should never be boiled, but the boiling water merely poured on it, the same as for tea. The coffee should always be purchased in the berry,—if possible, freshly roasted ; and it should never be ground long before it is wanted for use. tOTSEL'S HTDHOSTATIO UniT, There are very many new kinds of coffee- pots, but the method of making the coffee is nearly always the same, namely. Coffee, to make pouring the boiling water on the powder, and alTowing it to filter through. Our illustration shows one of Loysel's Hydro- static Urns, which are admirably adapted for making good and clear cofiee, which should be made in the following man- ner :—Warm the urn with boiling water, remove the lid and movable filter, and place the ground coffee at the bottom of the urn. Put the movable filter over this, and screw the lid, inverted, tightly on the end of the centre pipe. Pour into the inverted lid the above proportion of boiling water, and when all the water so poured has disappeared from the funnel, and made its way down the centre pipe and up again through the ground coffee by hydrostatic pressure, unscrew the lid and cover the urn. Pour back direct into the urn, not throtigh the funnel, one, two, or three cups, according to the size of the percolater, in order to make the infusion of uniform strength; the con- tents wUl then be ready for use, and should run from the tap strong, hot, and clear. The coffee made in these wrna generally turns out very good, and there is but one objection to them,—the coffee runs rather slowly from the tap; this is of no consequence where there is a small party, but tedious where there are many persons to provide for, A remedy for this objection may be suggested, namely, to make the coffee very strong, so that not more than J cup would be required, as the rest would be filled up with milk. Making coffee in filters or percolators does away with the necessity of using isinglass, white of egg, and various other preparations, to clear it. Coffee should always be served very hot, and, if pos- sible, in the same vessel in which it is made, as pouring it from one pot to another cools, and consequently spoils it. Many persons may think that the proportion of water we have given for each oz. of coffee is rather small; it is so, and the coffee produced fi-om it will be very strong; ^ of a cup will be found quite sufficient, which should be filled with nico hot milk, or milk and cream mixed. This is the cafe au lait for which our neighbours over the Channel are so justly celebrated. Should the ordinary method of making coffee bo preferred, use double the quantity of water, and, in pouring it into the cups, put in more coffee and less milk, Sufficient.—¥ov very good coffee, allow ^ oz., or 1 table- spoonful, to perp'ift.