223 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Onions, Spanish, Baked [veeks, when thoy will be fit for use. rhey should be beautifully white, and eat ci-isp, without the least softness, and will keep good many months. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of A.ugust. ONIONS, Spanish, Baked. Ingredients.—4 or 5 Spanish onions, salt, and water. il/ofZe.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and let them boil quickly for an hour. Then take them out, wipe them thoroughly, wrap each one in a piece of paper separately, and bake them in a moderate oven for 2 hours, or longer, should the onions be very large. They may be served in their skins, and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt; or they may be peeled, and a good brown gravy poured over them. Time.—1 hour to boil, 2 hours to bake. Average cost, medium-sized, 2d. each. <SM_^'c('e?i< for 5or 6 persons. Sea- tonahle from September to January. ONIONS, Spanish, Pickled. Ingredients.— Onions, vinegar ; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the onions in thin slices; put a layer of them in the bottom of a jar ; sprinkle with salt and cayenne ; then add another layer of onions, and season as before. Proceeding in this manner till the jar is full, pour in suflBcient vinegar to cover the whole, and the pickle will be fit for use in a month. Seasonable.—May be had in England from September to February. ONIONS, Spanish, Stewed, Ingredients.—5 or 6 Spanish onions, 1 pint of good broth or gravy. Mode.— Peel the onions, taking caro not to cut away too much of the tops or tails, or thoy would then fall to pieces; put them into a stewpan capable of holding them at the bottom without piling them one on the top of another; add the broth or gravy, and simmer very gentUi until the onions are perfectly tender. Dish them, pour tho gravy round, and serve. Instead ^ of using broth, Spanish onions may be jwed with a large piece of butter : they Mst bo done very gradually over a slow 0 or hot-plate, and will produce plenty gravy. Time.—To stew in gravj', 2 i'lrsj or longer if very large. Averaqe I Orange Cream cost, medium-sized, Id. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to January. Note.—Stewed Spanish onions are a favourite accompaniment to roast shoulder of mutton, ORANGE BRANDY. (ExceUent.) Ingredients.—To every h gallon of brandyallow| pintof Seville orange-juice, 1^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—To bring out the full flavour of the orange-peel, rub a few lumps of the sugar on 2 or 3 un- pared oranges, and put these lumps to the rest. Mix the brandy with the orange- juice, strained, the rinds of 6 of the oranges pared very thin, and the sugar. Let all stand in a closely-covered jar for about 3 days, stirring it 3 or 4 times a day. When clear, it should be bottled and closely corked for a year; it will then be ready for use, but will keep any length of time. This is a most excellent stomachic when taken pure in small quan- tities ; or, as the strength of the brandy is very little deteriorated by the other ingredients, it may be diluted with water. Time.—To be stirred every day for 3 days. Average cost. Is. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Seasonable.—Make this in March. ORANGE CREAM. Ingredients.—1 oz. of isinglass, 6 large oranges, 1 lemon, sugar to taste, water, ^ pint of good Qream. J/ocfe.—Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon; strain it, and put it into a saucepan with the isinglass, and sufficient water to make it in all 1^ pint. Rub the sugar on the orange and lemon-rind, add it to the other ingredients, and boil all toge- ther for about 10 minutes. Strain OPEN MOULD. through a muslin bag, and, waen cold, beat up with it h pint of thick cream. Wet a mould, or soak it in cold water; pour in the cream, and put it in a cool place to set. If tho weather is very cold.