xlii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 259. Havin;^ placed it on the table, and also the sifted sugar, she should wait in the room to hand about tho plates ; then return to tho kitchen, taking some of the things from the tray with her, and continue her washing up. 260. Having removed the tart she should take that and the meat to the pantry : the latter should be placed on a clean, cold dish, and the gravy put aside in a basin. She should then also remove all the i-est of the things, taking the bread, butter, and cheese to the pantry, and all the used plates, dishes, knives, forks, spoons, and glasses to the kitchen. 2G1. She should perform this work of removing as quietly and noiselessly as possible, following, as in the laying, a regular system. 262. She should first remove the dish, then the plates, and collecting the knives, forks, and spoons, in a basket, or putting thom all together on the tray, the plates piled one upon another on the tray; but she should never attempt to pile the plates with the knives, forks, and spoons on them. She should remove the glasses carefully, not clashing them together. Dinner being removed, she should then remove the crumbs with the brush for that purpose, fold the cloth neatly, and proceed— TO WASH UP THE DIWNER THINGS. 263. 33ut this, as we have shown, she may have commenced beforehand. 264. She should have a large tub of hot water and a couple of good dry rubbers for the gi'easy plates and dishes. She should wash them first very thoroughly, and wipe tbem well dry. Then the knives : she should hold the blades in the water, not letting it touch the handle, and should wipe them quite dry. Then the silver spoons, for which she should take some fresh hot water; after being washed and wiped they should be rubbed well with a very dry soft cloth. 265. The glasses must not be washed in the same pail used for tho grea.ey things ; she should have another pail for them, with some warm, 7iot hot, water. They should be washed first and loft to drain, thou dried quickly with a fine dry linen glass-cloth. 266. When all the things are washed, they should bo put by in their proper places, and the towels used hung up to dry. 267. Then having put the kettle on to boil, she should go to tho scullery and clean up all the pots, pans, and saucepans, the roaster, and whatever else was used in cooking the dinner, and clean tho knives. This last will be but little trouble if a knife-cleaner is used. Shu should then clean any boots and shoes dry enough to be done; take out a sufficient supply of coals for next morning's fires. She sliould