m Philosophy of Housekeeping. about a ^ inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with sago-and-onion stuffing. Prush the joint over with a little salad-oil (this maket the crackling crisper, and a hotter colour), and put it down to a bright, cleai iiro,—not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, ano serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and do not omit to send tc table with it a turoen of well-made apple-sauce. STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL AND BICE. Ingredients.—Knuclde of veal, 1 onion, 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful o:' salt, ^ lb. of rice. Mode,—Have the knuckle cut small, or cut some cutlets from it, that it may b(; just large enough to be eaten the same day it is dressed, as cold boiled veal is no-: a particularly tempting dish. Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, and put th(: meat into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it gradually come to <• i boil, put in the salt, and remove the scum as fast as it rises. When it has sim mered gently for about f hour, add the remaining ingredients, and stew thi whole gently for 2j hours. Put the meat into a deep dish, and pour over it thi i rice, &c., and send boiled bacon, and a tureen of i^arsley and butter, to tabl<: with it. Note.—Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with the veal, will be found good; or the ric and macaroni may be omitted, and the veal sent to table smothered in parsley and butter. LOIN OF VEAL, with. Forcemeat. IngeEDIENTS.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat, a few slices o bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, h teaspoonful of whole whit :^ pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. 3f ode.—Cnt off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone ; till th i cavity with forcemeat, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. Add the herbs - mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water ; cover thepanwithaclosely-fittin., lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out th bacon, herbs, and onions; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to glaze, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrc sauce. CALF'S TONGUE AND BIIA.IN3. Ingredients.—Tongue and brains of a calf ; seasoning. Mode.—Teel the tongue, and cut it into thin slices, or serve whole, as illu; = tratcd. Boil the brains in a cloth, chop it fine, and beat it up with the egg, flou:" milk, and nutmeg. Have ready a fi7ing-pan of boiling lard, and fry the mixtui in fritters the siso of a crown-piece. Flavour the gravy with a seasoning < | pepper, salt, and mace, herbs, onion, and cayenne popper; let it simmer L-'