55 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Cakes, Making and Baking of s weetened, with the addition of a little 1'randy or liqueurs, which may be added c r not at pleasure. The coffee should be I'le very strong, and served in very all cups, but never mixed with milk cream. Ca/e noir may be made of the , r^ence of coffee by pouring a table- spoonful into each cup, and filling it up ith boiling water. This is a very iiple and expeditious manner of pre- ! ing coffee for a large party, but the ijnce for it must be made very good, i kept well coi'ked until required for use. OAKES, Making and Baking of. Bgffs should always be broken into a [>, the whites and yolks separated, and iioy should always be strained. Break- ng the eggs thus, the bad ones may 13e easily rejected without spoiling the ' )thers, and so cause no waste. As eggs .re used instead of yeast, they should be ery thoroughly whisked; they are ge- icrally sufficiently beaten when thick •nough to carry the drop that falls from ho whisk. Loaf Sugar should be well pounded, ,ik1 then sifted through a fine sieve. Currants should be nicely washed, ked, dried in a cloth, and then care- ly examined, that no pieces of grit -tone may beleft amongst them. They iiould then bo laid on a dish before the i 10, to become thoroughly dry; as, if led damp to the other ingredients, ::os will be liable to be heavy. Good Butter should always be used in ^0 manufacture of cakes; and, if beaten a cream, it saves much time and la- ir to warm, but not melt, it before iting. IjBhs butter and eggs are required for ;gs when yeast is mixed with the other redients. rhe heat of the oven is of great import- iice, especially for large cakes. If the ' at be not tolerably fierce, the batter ! 1 not rise. If the oven is too quick, - I there is any danger of the cake iirning or catching, put a sheet of clean uper over the top : newspaper, or paper Ihat has been printed on, should never ie used for this purpose. I To know when a cake is sufficionl.ly jaked, plunge a clean knife into the liiddlo of it; draw it quickly out, and if looks in the least sticky put the cake :!c, and close the oven door until the is dong. Cake, Common Cakes should be kept in closed tin canisters or jars, and in a dry place. Those made with yeast do not keep so long as those made without it. CAKES, nice Breakfast. liigredients.—1 lb. of flour, g teaspoon- ful of tartaric acid, ^ teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1^ breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 eggs. Mode. —These cakes are made in the same manner as the soda bread, with the addition of eggs and sugar. Mix the flour, tartaric acid, and salt well together, taking care that the two latter ingredients are reduced to the finest powder, and stir in the sifted sugar which should also be very fine. Dissolve the soda in the milk, add the eggs, which should be well whisked, and with this liquid work the flour, &c. into a light dough. Divide it into small cakes, put them into the oven immediately, and bake for about 20 minutes. Time.—20 minutes, CAKE, Christmas. Ingredients.—5 teacupfuls of flour, 1 teacupful of melted butter, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teacupful of treacle, 1 teacup- ful of moist sugar, 2 eggs, ^ oz. of pow- dered ginger, ^ lb. of raisins, 1 teaspoon- ful of carbonate of soda, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.— Make the butter sufficiently warm to melt it, but do not allow it to oil; put the flour into a basin, add to it the sugar, ginger, and raisins, which should be stoned and cut into small pieces. When these dry ingi-e- dients are thoroughly mixed, stir in the butter, cream, treacle, and well-whisked eggs, and beat the mixture for a few minutes. Dissolve the soda in the vine- gar, add it to the dough, and be parti- cular that these latter ingredients are well incorporated with the otliers; put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, place it in a moderate oven immediately, and bake it from 1^ to 2^ hours. Timet —If to 2^ hours. Average cost, Is. &d. CAKE, Common (suitable for send- ing to Children at School). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 4 oz. of butter or clarified dripping, h oz. of ca- raway seeds, ^ oz. of allspice, h lb. of pounded sugar, 1 lb. of currants," 1 pint of Bjilk, 3 tablespoonfuls of fresh yea.3t.