61 THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKEET. Calf's Head, Boiled keep these hot by the side of the fire. Take up the head, cut out the tongue, 5kin it, cut it on a small dish with the brains rojnd it; sprinkle over the head T. few bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley ; brown these before the fire, and serve with a tureen of parsley md butter, and either boiled bacon, aam, or pickled pork as an accompani- nent. Time.—2^ to 3 hours. Average ■<>sl, according to the season, from 3s. to 's. 6d. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable from March to October. HALF'S HEAD, Boiled (without the Skin). Ingredients.—Calf s head, water, a little alt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper nd salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of emon-juice. Mode.—After the head as been thoroughly cleaned, and the rains removed, soak it in warm water o blanch it. Lay the brains also into /arm water to soak, and let them remain CALj'a HEAD. Dr about an hour. Put the head into a tewpan, with sufficient cold water to bver it, and, when it boils, add a little ilt; take off every particle of scum as rises, and boil the head until perfectly nder. Boil the brains, chop them, and ix with them melted butter, minced rsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice in e above proportion. Take up the head, ! HALP A CALP'S DEAD. 'n the tongue, and put it on a small h with the brains round it. Have "y some parsley and butter, smother e head with it, and the remaindersend to ' le in a tureen. Bacon, ham, pickled irk, or a pig's cheek, are indispensable Lh calfs head. The brains are somo- oaes chopped with hard-boiled eggs, and Calf's Head, Fricasseed mixed with a little Bechamel or white sauce. Time.—From 1^ to 2\ hours. Average cost, according to the season, from 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 per- sons. Seasonable from March to October. Hote.—The liquor in which the head was boiled should be saved : it makes excellent soup, and wUl be found a nice addition to gravies, &c. Half a calfs head is as frequently served as a whole one, it being a more convenient-sized joint for a small family. It is cooked in the same manner, and served with the same sauces, as in the preceding recipe. CALF'S HEAD, CoUared. Ingredients.—A calfs head, 4 table- spoonfuls of minced jDarsley, 4 blades of pounded mace, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, white pepper to taste, a few thick slices of ham, the yolks of 6 eggs boiled hard. J/ocfe.—Scald the head for a few minutes ; take it out of the water, and with a blunt knife scrape off all the hair. Clean it nicely, divide the head and remove the brains. Boil it tender enough to take out the bones, which will be in about 2 hours. When the head is boned, flatten it on the table, sprinkle over it a thick layer of parsley, then a layer of ham, and then the yolks of the eggs cut into thin rings and put a season- ing of pounded mace, nutmeg, and white pepper between each layer; roll the head up in a cloth, and tie it up as tightly as possible. Boil it for 4 hours, and when it is taken out of the pot, place a heavy weight on the top, the same as for other collai-ed meats. Let it remain till cold ; then remove the cloth and binding, and it will be ready to serve. Time. —Altogether, 6 hours. Averatje cost, 5s. to 7s. each. Seasonable from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Fricasseed (an Entree). [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients.— The _ remains of a boiled calfs head, 1^ pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 onion minced, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and white pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, forcemeat balls. Mode.—B,omoro all the bones from the head, and cut the meat into nice square pieces. Put 1;^ pint of the liquor it was boiled in into a saucepan, with mace, onions, herbs, and seasoning