THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 19 August—Bills of Fare Second Course. s \ Haunch of Venison. Ham, garnislied. Vase of Flowers, Leveret Pie, Saddle of Mutton, S o 1^ O Entrees. a P< Fricandeau de Veau a la Jardiniere. Vase of Flowers. Fillets of Ducks and Peas. ^ . 0} a> 5 « T/aVci Course. cot* CD O Grouse removed by 9 Cabinet Pudding, 2. Fruit Jelly. Vase of Flowers. Vol-au-Vent of § Pears. 5^ Larded Peahen, removed by Iced Pudding. ■3 IE Dessert and Ices, |inner for 12 persons. Ii''irs< Course.—Vermicelli soup; soup ' la reino ; boiled salmon; fried floun- prs; trout en matelot. Entrees. — jwed pigeons; sweetbreads ; ragotit ducks; fillets of chickens and musb- oms. Second Course. — Quarter of lb ; cotellctto de boeuf la jardiniere; let fowls and boiled tongue ; bacon lid beans. TIdrd Course.—Grouse ; leatears; greengage tart; whipped August, Plain Family Dinners for cream; vol-au-vent of plums; fruit jelly; iced pudding; cabinet pudding; dessert and ices. soup; filleta Dinner for 8 persons. First Cojirsg.—Julienne of turbot and Dutch sauce ; red mullet. Entrees. — Riz de veau aux tomates ; fillets of ducks and peas. Second Course. —Haunch of venison ; boiled capon and oysters ; ham, garnished; vegetables. Third Co?irse. ~ Leveret; fruit jelly; compote of greengages; plum tart; custards, in glasses; omelette soufS€; dessei-t and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Macaroni soup; crimped salmon and sauce Hollandaise; fried fillets of trout. Entrees. — Tendrons de veau and stewed peas; salmi of grouse. Second Course.—Roast loin of veal ; boiled bacon, garnished with French beans ; stewed beef a la jar- dinifere; vegetables. Third Course.— Turkey poult; plum tart ; custard pud- ding ; vol-au-vent of pears ; strawberiy cream : ratafia souffle : dessert. First Course.—Vegetable-marrow soup; stewed mullet; fillets of salmon and ra- vigotte sauce. Entrees.—Curried lob- ster ; fricandeau de veau h la jardiniere. Second Course.—Roast saddle of mutton ; stewed shoulder of veal, garnished with forcemeat balls; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast grouse and bread sauce; vol-au-vent of greengages ; fruit jelly; raspberry cream ; custards; fig pudding; dessert. AUGUST, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Vegetable-marrow soup. 2. Roast quarter of lamb, mint sauce; French beans and potatoes. 3. Rasp- berry-and-currant tart, custard pudding. Monday.—1. Cold lamb and salad, small meat-pie, vegetable marrow, and white sauce. 2. Lemon dumplings. Tuesday.—1. Boiled mackerel. 2. Stowed loin of veal, French beans and potatoes. S. Baked raspberry pudding. Wednesday/.—1. Vegetable soup. 2. Lamb cutlets and French beans ; the re- mains of stewed shoulder of veal, mashed vegetable marrow, 3, Black-currant pudding.