395 Kaised Pie of Poultry or Game. VOL-AU-VENT. Ingredients.—f to 1 lb. of pufif-paste, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragotits, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. Mode.—Make from | to 1 lb. of puff-paste, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to insure its rising properly; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au-veni will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about Ih inch, and, with a fluted cutter, stamp it out to the desired shape, either round or oval, and, with the point of a small knife, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from the edge, which, when baked, forms the lid. Put the vol-aii-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should be paid to the heating of the oven, for the paste co-jinot rise without a tolerable degree of heat. When of a nice colour, without eing scorched, withdraw it from the oveu, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre : in doing this, be careful not to break the edges of the vol-au-vent; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of an egg. This precaution is necessary, to prevent the fricassee or ragotlt from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-aii-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragotit, or the remains of cold fish flaked and warmed in a good white sauce, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gi'avy bursting the crust; replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properly. RAISED PIE OF POULTRY OR GAME. INGKEDIENTS.—To every lb. of flour allow h lb. of butter, ^ pint of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust), 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. Mode.—Make a stiff short crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly ; butter a raised-pie mould, and line it with the paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or what- ever bird is intended to be used, lay it, breast downwards, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a layer of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of forcemeat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pie with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal and ham and iorcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste-pinchers, and decorate it with leaves ; brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it in a mpderato oven for 4 hours. In the mean time, make a good strong gravy from the bones, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small