THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 161 Invalid Cookery rVALID COOKEBY. AfeioRiiles to he olserved in Cooking for Invalids. Let all the kitchen utensils used in the ^paration of invalids' cookery be deli- ;ely and scrupulously clean ; if this is D the case, a disagreeable flavour may- imparted to the preparation, which i-our may disgust, and prevent the pa- nt from partaking of the refreshment en brought to him or her, ?or invalids, never make a large quan- Y of one thing, as they seldom require ich at a time ; and it is desirable that •iety be provided for them. Mways have something in readiness ; ittle beef tea, nicely made and nicely mmed, a few spoonfuls of jelly, &c., ., that it may be administered as soon nost as the iavalid wishes for it. If liged to •5rait a long time, the patient es the desire to eat, and often turns linst the food when brought to him or [n sending dishes or preparations up invalids, let everything look as tempt- ', as possible. Have a clean tray-cloth li smoothly over the tray; let the )ons, tumblers, cups and saucers, &c., very clean and bright. Gruel served a tumbler is more appetizing than en served in a basin or cup and sau- i,8 milk is an important article of food the sick, in warm weather let it be st on ice, to prevent its turning sour, ny other delicacies may also be pro- ved good in the same manner for some ;le time. f the patient bo allowed to eat vege- iles, never send them up undercooked, half raw ; and let a small quantity y be temptingly arranged on a dish, is rule will apply to every preparation, W an invalid is much more likely to I'oy his food if small delicate pieces are ' cd to him. jver leave food about a sick-room ; if Maticnt cannot eat it when brought m, take it av/ay, and bring it to him n hour or two's time. Miss Nightin- i_ ■; says, " To leave the patient's un- I.ted food by his side from meal to •al, in hopes that he will eat it in the crval, is simply to prevent him from :ing any food at all." Slio says, "I ■ known patients literally incapaci- 1 from taking one article of food after !ier by this piece of ignorance. Let Invalid Cookery the food come at the right time, and ba taken away, eaten or uneaten, at the right time, but never let a patient have 'something always standing' by him, if you don't wish to disgust him of every- thing." Never serve beef tea or broth with the smallest particle of fat or grease on the surface. It is better, after making either of these, to allow them to get perfectly cold, when all the fat may be easily re- moved ; then warm up as much as may be required. Two or three pieces of clean whity-brown paper laid on the broth will absorb any greasy particles that may be floating at the top, as the grease will cling to the paper. Roast mutton, chickens, rabbits, calves' feet or head, game, fish (simply (U-essed), and simple puddings, aro all light food, and easily digested. Of course, these things are only partaken of supposing the patient is recovering. A mutton chop, nicely cut, trimmed, and broiled to a turn, is a dish to be re- commended for invalids ; but it must not be served xoilh all the fit at the end, nor must it be too thickly cut. Lot it be cooked over a fire free from smoke, and sent up with the gravy in it, between twc very hot plates. Nothing is more dia- agreeable to an invalid than smoked food. In making toast-and-water, never blacken the bread, but toast it only a nice brown. Never leave toast-aud-water to make until the moment it is required, as it cannot then be properly prepai'ed,— at least the patient will be obliged to drink it warm, which is anything but agreeable. In boiling eggs for invalids, let the white be just set; if boiled hard, they will be likely to disagree with the patient. In Miss Nightingale's admirabla "Notes on Nursing," a book that no mother or nurse should be without, she says,—" You cannot be too careful as to quality in sick-diet. A nurse should never put before a patient milk that is sour, meat or soup that is turned, an egg that is bad, or vegetables underdone. Yet often, she says, she has seen these things brought in to the sick, in a state perfectly perceptible to every fiose or eye except the nurse's. It is here that the clever nurse appears,—she will not bring in the peccant article; but, not to disap- point the patient, she will whip up some- thing else in a few minutes. Remember, that sick-cookery should half do the G