394 Philosophy of Housokeepmg, owover, it is fresh from tho pickle, 2 or 3 hours will be sufficient for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs; let it gi-adually come to a boil, skim well, and simmer very gently until tender. Peel oif the skin, garnish with tufts of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, and serve. Boiled tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poultry, instead of Lam, and is, by many jjersons, prefcri-cd. If to serve cold,, peel it, fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through tho top, to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and put a paper ruche round the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley. BKOILED KIDNEYS. Ingeedients.—Kidneys, butter, pepper, salt, toast. Mode.—Skin and split the kidneys lengthways, place them near a quick fire to broil, cut side downwards; in one minute turn and place butter on the cut side, add pepper and salt, and serve very hot on toast. VEQETABLE MAKROW. Ingeedients.—Vegetable marrows, toast. Mode.—Peel the marrows and divide them lengthwise, boil until tender, and serve on buttered toast, with a good melted-butter sauce. DISH OF PBAWWS AND CEAY-PISH. Ingeedients.—Prawns, cray-fish, bread. Mode. —Cut a mould of bread from a stale loaf, arrange the cray-fish alter- nately with tufts of parsley, placing the largest fish at the bottom, and garnish the pyramid with the prawns. MINCE PIES. Ingeedients.—Grood puff-paste, mincemeat. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste, roll it out to the thickness of about ^ inch, and line some good-sized pattypans with it; fill them with mincemeat, cover with the paste, and cut it off all round close to the edge of the tin. Put the pies into a brisk oven to draw the paste up, and bake for 25 minutes, or longer, should the pies be very large ; brush them over with the white of an egg beaten with the blade of a knife to a stiflf froth ; sprinkle over pounded sugar, and put them into the oven for a minute or two, to diy the egg ; dish the pies on a white d'oyley, and serve hot. They may be merely sprinkled with pounded sugar instead of being glazed, when that mode is preferred. To warm them, put the pies on tho pattypans, and let them remain in the oven for 10 minutes or ^ hour, and they will be almost as good as if freshly made.