xlix The Cook Gets the Breakfast Keady. the hall, where she fastens the front door open, removes all coats, hats, umbrellas, and sweeps down the hall, collecting all the dust and dirt into her pan with the banister broom. If the hall be dirty, she removes all marks with a piece of flannel wrung out in warm water and polishes with another piece dipped in milk. Twice a week the hall is washed down as follows :— TO CLEAN A HALL. 306. Thoroughly wash off the dirt with flannel and warm, not hot, water; rub dry with a cloth as you go ; and when all is finished, rub lightly with the oilcloth restorer (page Ixiv), or with new milk, and brighten it. By using the simple restorer, an oilcloth may be preserved for a dozen years " as good as new." 307. Having cleaned the hall, she will dust the chairs and hat-stand and pegs, and return the coats and hats to their places, receiving them from the housemaid, who will have brushed them carefully downstairs. The cook beats the mat in the garden or street, and returns it to its place. She will next— CLEAN THE STEPS. 308. Scrubbing-brush, clean warm water, flannel, and hearthstone. She should first scrub the steps down, then dry off with the flannel, and while wet rub in the hearthstone. Some steps are whitened by a composition of pipeclay and water made into a thin paste, and laid on with a brush. This is an admirable white, but has the disadvantages of marking dresses, &c. 309. The scraper in country houses is taken indoors and cleaned, but when a fixture, as in London houses, the du-t must be removed daily, and the scraper washed and kept bright. After the steps, hall-door, &c., are cleaned— THE COOK GETS THE BREAKFAST READY. 310. When the kettle boils, she should move it aside, to make room for the pan or gridiron, still keeping it boiling, however. If she have an omelette to make, or fish, or cutlets to be prepared with eggs and breadcrumbs, they will have her first attention. If both fried fish and fried meat are wanted for break- fast, the fish should be done first, then covered close and kept warm while the meat is being cooked, not using the same pan. However, if the meat were only for one—such as a chop or a rasher of bacon—it might be done in a gridiron in front of the fire, while the fish or omelette was being fried on the top. 311. While the cooking is going on, she should put four plates to warm. She should also make some pieces of nice thin toast, and place them in the toast- rack. 812. When the pan is removed from the fire, she should boil the eggs, first