221 Onion Sauce, Brown lightly with the batter, and put the butter into a small frying-pan. As soon _ as it begins to bubble, pour the batter " into it, and set the pan over a bright but gentle fire ; and when the omelet is set, turu the edges over to make it an oval shape, and slip it on to a silver dish, which has been previously well buttered. Put it in the oven, and bake from 12 to 15 minutes; sprinkle finely-powdered sugar over the souffl€, and serve it ivinie- diately. Time.—About 4 minutes in the pan; to bake, from 12 to 15 minutes. Average cost, Is. Snfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. ONIOTT SAUCE, Brown. Ingredients.—6 large onions, rather more than ^ pint of good gravy, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —Slice and fry the onions of a pale brown in a stewpan, with the above quantity of butter, keeping them well Btirred, that they do not get black. When a nice colour, pour over the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender. Now skim off every particle of fat, add the seasoning, and rub the whole through a tammy or sieve ; put it back into the saucepan to wai-m, and when it boils, serve. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Sea- tonahle from August to March. _ Note.—Where a Ligii flavouring is liked, add 1 tablespoonfal of mushroom ketchup, or a small quantity of port wine. OITION SAUCE, French, or Sou- bise. Ingredients. — I pint of Bechamel, 1 bay-leaf, seasoning to taste of pounded mace and cayenne, 6 onions, a small piece of ham. Mode.—Peel the onions and cut them in halves; put them into a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover them, and add the bayleaf, ham, cayenne, and mace ; bo careful to keep the lid closely shut, and simmer them until tender. Take them out and drain thoroughly ; rub them through a tammy or sieve (an old one does for the purpose) with a wooden spoon, and put them to ^ pint of Bechamel; keep stirring over the fire until it boils, when sei-ve. If it should require any more seasoning, add it to taste. Time.—% hour to boil tho onion.s. Average cost, IM. for this Onion Soup quantity. Stifficient for a moderato-sized dish. ONION SAUCE, White, for BoUed Rabbits, Boast Shoulder of Mutton, &c. Ingredients.—9 large onions, or 12 mid- dling-sized ones, 1 pint of melted butter made with milk, h teaspoonful of salt, or rather more. Mode.—Peel the onions and put them into water to which a little salt has been added, to preserve their whiteness, and let them remain for ^ hour. ThoH put them into a stewpan, cover them with water, and let them boil until ten- der, and, if the onions should be very strong, change the water after they have been boiling for ^ hour. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Make 1 pint of melted butter with milk, and when that boils, put In the onions, with a seasoning of salt; stir it till it simmers, when it will be ready to serve. If these directions are carefully attended to, this onion sauce will be delicious. Time.— From ^ to 1 hour, to boil the onions. A verage cost, 9d. per pint. Sufficient to serve with a roast shoulder of mutton, or boiled rabbit. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—To make this sauce very mild and delicate, use Spanish onions, which can be procured from the beginning of September to Christmas. 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream added just before serving, will be found to improve its appearance very much. Small onions, when very young, may be cooked whole, and served in melted butter. A sieve or tammy should be kept expressly for onions: an old one answers the purpose, as it is liable to retain the flavour and smell, which of course would be oxcea- sively disagreeable in delicate prepara- tions. ONION SOUP. Ingredients.—6 large onions, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, h pint of cream, 1 quart of stock. Mode. — Chop tho onions, put them in the butter, stir them occasionally, but do not let them brown. When tender, put the stock to them, and season; strain the soup, and add the boiling cream. Titne.— hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Sea- sonable in winter. Siifficient for 4 per- sons,