29 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. Beef-Bones, Broiled pint of gravy, 3 tablespoonfuls of ale, ist or mashed potatoes. Mode.—Cut a beef in slices, allowing a small lount of fat to each slice; place a 'er of this in the bottom of a pie-dish, bh a portion of the onions, carrots, and nips, which must be sliced; mince ) herbs, strew tbem over the meat, d season with pepper and salt. Then fc another layer of meat, vegetables, d seasoning ; and proceed in this jiner until all the ingredients are id. Pour in the gravy and ale (water ly be substituted for the former, but is not so nice), cover with a crust or ished potatoes, and bake for \ hour, rather longer. Time.—Rather more ua ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of > meat, 6d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 per- is. Seasonable at any time. ?fote. — It is as well to parboil the 'rrots and turnips before adding them I the meat, and to use some of the :ior in which they were boiled as a istitute for gravy ; that is to say, : en there is no gravy at hand. Be rticular to cut the onions in very thin :es. I 'OLD Meat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. ices of cold roast beef, salt and pep- to taste, 1 pliced onion, 1 teaspoon- of minced savouiy herbs, 12 table- < 'nfuls of gravy or sauce of any kind, -11 ed potatoes. Mode. —Butter the sides I deep dish, and spread mashed pota- s over the bottom of it; on this place 1 crs of beef in thin slices (this may minced, if there is not suiBcient if to cut into slices), well seasoned ^ih pepper and salt, and a very little ' on and herbs, which ohould be pre- nsly fried of a nice brown ; then put jther layer of mashed potatoes, and f, and other ingredients, as before; • in the gravy or sauce, cover the 0 with another Itiyer of potatoes, and for ^ hour. This may be sensed in !ish, or turned out. Time.—^ hour. ttgecost, exclusive of the cold beef. Sufficient.—A large pie-dish full for •j persons. Seasonable at any time. lEF-BONES, Broiled. OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. 0 bones of ribs or sirloin ; salt, pep- and cayenne. Separate the s, taking care that the meat on them njt too thick in any part; sprinkle Beef, Brisket of. Stewed them well with the above seasoning, and broil over a veiy clear fire. When nicely browned, they are done; but do not allow them to blacken. BEEP, Brisket of, h la Flamande. Ingredients. —About 6 or 8 lbs. of tha brisket of beef, 4 or 5 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 4 cloves, 4 whole allspice, 2 blades of mace. Mode.—Choose that portion of the brisket which contains the gristle, trim it, and put it into a stewpan with the slices of bacon, which should be placed under and over the meat. Add the vegetables, herbs, spices, and seasoning, and cover with a little weak stock or water; shut the stewpan-lid as closely as possible, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, reserve a por- tion of it for sauce, and the remainder boU quickly over a sharp fire until re- duced to a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Gai-nish the dish with scooped carrots and turnips, and, when liked, a little cabbage ; all of which must be cooked separately. Thicken and flavour the liquor that was saved for sauce, pour it round the meat, and serve. The beef may also be garnished with glazed onions, artichoke-bottoms, &c. Time.—4 hours. A verage cost, 7d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Brisket of. Stewed. Ingredients.—7 lbs. of the brisket of beef, vinegar and salt, 6 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 small onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 whole allspice pounded, thickening of butter and floui-, 2 table- spoonfuls of ketchup; stock, or water. Mode.—About an hour before dressing it, rub the meat over with vinegar and salt ; put it into a stewpan, with suffi- cient stock to cover it (when this is not at hand, water may be substituted for it), and be particular that the stewpan is not much larger than the meat. Skim well, and when it has simmered very gently for 1 hour, put in the vegetables, and continue simmering till the meat is perfectly tender. Draw out the bones, dish the meat, and garnish either with tufts of caulillower or braised cabbage cut in quarters. Thicken as much gravy as required, with a littlo butter and flour ; add spices and ketchup in the above pro- portion, give one boil, pour some of it