To Dish up the Dinner. 219. She should first rinse out the soup-tureon with hot water to warm it, then place it on the table. Then take the digester from the fire, remove the cover carefully, and pour the soup guicH]/ from it into the tureen. It should be don© at once, not allowing the soup to dribble at all over the side of the digester. She should then put aside the digester, and examine the soup carefully ; if there be the slightest sign of grease floating on it or any black that may have got accidentally from the side or cover of the digester, it should be instantly removed with a spoon or piece of clean blotting-paper, 250. She should then put the cover on the tureen, place the tureen on its dish, carry it upstairs, and put it on the table, at the head. 251. She should then take up the plates, and having announced to the family that dinner is served, should wait in the room to hand round the soups, then return to the kitchen. 252. She should then put four plates, a large dish, and two vegetable dishes to warm. 253. The dish being hot she should wipe it, take the mutton from the spit y.nd place it on it, carefully examining the meat and removing any small cinder that might happen to have flown from the fire on it. She should pour the gravy round the meat—not over it—then cover it. 254. She should then dish the potatoes, taking them carefully one by ona with a spoon from saucepan or steamei', not shaking them all out together, 255. Then dish the mashed turnips; these should be turned out altogether from the saucepan, as taking them up in spoonfuls would cool them. 256. She should then take up the meat and plates (having first wiped them), and place them on the tray outside the door. Then when the bell rings she should remove the soup, soup-plates, under-plates, and spoons, and put on'the meat and plates for that both before her master, she should then return to the kitchen, bring up the potatoes and turnips, and place them on the table, one dish on each Kide. 257. She should, having waited in the room to hand the plates and vege- tables, return to the kitchen, taking with her the soup-tureen. While the family are partaking of the meal she should put four plates to warm, for the tart. Slie may also bring down the soup-plates and spoons, and wash up them and tho tureen while waiting. 258. When she removes the tart from tho oven, she should place it on a cloan dish. Before taking up this and the plates for it, she should remove the meat, plates, and vegetables.