Boast Leg of Pork. icmvivc all scum from the suifaco ; as, if this is not attended to, it sinks on to the meat, and, when bi'ought to table, presents a very unsightly appearance. When it is well skimmed, draw the pot to the corner of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until done. Remove the tape and skewers, which should bo replaced by a silver one; pour over it a little of the pot-liquor, and garnish with carrots. Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings, accompany this dish; and these may all be boiled with the beef. The pot- liquor should be saved, and converted into pea-soup ; and the outside slices, which are generally hard and of an uninviting appearance, may be cut off before being sent to table, and potted. These make an excellent relish for the breakfast or luncheon table. KOAST SmTiOIN OF BEEP. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode.—As a joint cannot be well roasted without a good firo, see that it is well made up about f hom* before it is required, so that when the joint is put down, it is clear and bright. Choose a nice sirloin, the weight of which should not exceed 16 lb., as the outside would be too much done, whilst the inside would not be done enough. Spit it or hook it on to the jack firmly, dredge it slightly with flour, and place it neai- the fire at first, as directed in the preceding recipe. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done. Sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish with tufts of horseradish, and send horseradish sauce and Yorkshire pudding to table with it. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. Ingredients.—Mutton, water, salt, Mode.—A. leg of mutton for boiling should not hang too long, as it will not look a good colour when dressed. Cut ofi" the shank-bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into suflicient boiling water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the finger can be home in the water. Then place it suflSciently near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be very careful that it does not boil fa.st, or the meat will be hard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about 2i hours after the water begins to simmer, a moderate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Servo with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table with it in a tm-eeu. k EOAST LEG- OP POEK. iNGREmFNTS.-Leg of pork, a little oil, sage-and-onion stuffing. ^oc/e.-Choose a small log of pork, and score the skin across in narrow strips,