331 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Stock, "White meat; and that all white or brown thick SDups should have no more consistency than will enable them to adhere slightly ■10 the spoon when hot. All ;purees ■should be somewhat thicker. STOCK, White (to be used in the preparation of White Soups). Ingredien ts.—i lbs. of knuckle of veal, any poultry trimmings, 4 slices of lean ham, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 1 head of ce- lery, 12 white peppercorns, 2 oz. of salt, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, 1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the veal, and put it with the bones and trimmings of poultry, and the ham, into the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. Moisten with ^ a pint of water, and simmer till the gravy be- gins to flow. Then add the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the ingre- dients ; simmer for 5 hours. After skim- ming and straining it carefully through a very fine hair sieve, it will bo ready for use. Time.—5^ hours. Average cost, 9(i. per quart. Note.—When stronger stock is de- sired, double the quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl. The liquor in which a young turkey has been boiled, is an excellent addition to all white stock or soups. STOCK, Consom.m6 or White, for many Sauces. Consomm^ is made precisely in the same manner as white stock, and, for ordinary purposes, will be found quite good enough. When, however, a stronger stock is desired, cither put in half the quantity of water, or double that of the meat. This is a very good foimdation .Jor all white sauces. STRAWBERRY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow ^ pint of red-currant juico, \\ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Strip the cur- lants from the stalks, put them into a jar ; place this jar in a saucepan of boil- ing water, and simmer until the juico is well drawn from tho fruit ; strain the currants, measure the juice, put it into a preserving pan, and add the sugar. Select well-ripened but sound straw- berries ; pick them from the stalks, and when tho sugar is dissolyocl in tho cur- Strawberries and Cream rant-juice, put in the fruit. Simmer the whole over a moderate fire, from \ to ^ hour, carefully removing tho scum as it rises. Stir the jam only enough to pro- vent it from burning at the bottom of the pan, as the fruit should be pre- served as whole as possible. Put the jam into jars, and when cold, cover down. Time.—\ to f hour, reckoning from the time the jam simmers all over. Average cost, from Id. to 8d. per lb. pot, Sufficient.—12 pints of strawberries will make 12 lbs. of jam. Seasonable in June and July. STRAWBERRY JELLY. Ing''-edients.—Strawberries, pounded sugar; to every pint of juice allow 1;^ oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Pick trie straw- berries, put them into a pan, squeeze them well with a wooden spoon, add sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten them nicely, and let them remain tor 1 hour, th'.xt the juice may be extracted ; then add I pint of water to every pint of juico. Strain the strawberry-juice and water through a bag; measure it, and to every pint allow 1^ oz. of isinglass, melted and clarified in ^ pint of water. Mix this with tho juice; put the jelly into a mould, and set the mould in ice. A litt.le lemon-juice added to the straw- berry-juice improves the flavour of the jolly, if tho frnit is very ripe ; but it must be well strained before it is put to the other ingredients, or it will make the jelly muddy. Time.—1 hour to draw the juice. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. Sufficient.—Allow pint of jelly for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. STRAWBERRIES and CREAM. Ingredients.—To every pint of picked strawberries allow J pint of cream, 2 oz. of finely-pounded sugar. Mode. —Pick the stalks from the fruit, place it ou a glass dish, sprinkle over it pounded sugar, and slightly stir the strawberries, that they may all be equally sweetened ; pour tho croara over the top, and servo. Devonshire cream, when it can be ob- tained, is exceedingly delicious for this dish; and, if very thick indeed, may bo diluted with a little thin cream or milk. Ai-arnge cost fortius quantity, with cream at Is. per pint, Is. Suffi- cient lor 2 persons. Seasonable in Juno arid July.