THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 208 Mutton-CoUops them, and in about 8 minutes thoy will be dono. Soason with pepper and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small piece of butter on each chop, and serve very hot and expeditiously. Time.— About 8 minutes. Average cost, lOrf. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 1 chop to each person. Hetisonahle at any time, MUTTON-COLLOPS. Ingredients.—A few slices of a cold log or loin of mutton, salt and pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs minced very fine, 2 or 3 shalots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, 1 des- sertspoonful of flour, i pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Cut some very thin slices from a leg or the chump end of a loin of mutton ; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, pounded mace, minced savoury herbs, and minced sha- lot; fry th^m in butter, stir in a dessert- spoonful of flour, add the gravy and lemon-juice, simmer very gently about 5 or 7 minutes, and sei've immediately. Time.—5 to 7 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOlSr, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of any joint of cold mut- ton, 2 onions, ^ lb, of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of curry-powder, 1 dessert- epoonful of flour, salt to taste, \ pint of stock or water. Mode.—Slice the onions in thin rings, and put them into a stew- pan with the butter, and fry of a light brown; stir in the curry-powder, flour, and salt, and mix all together. Cut the moat into nice thin slices (if there is not sufficient to do this, it may be minced), and add it to the other ingredients; when well browned, add the stock or gravy, and stew gently for about ^ hour. Serve in a dish with a border of boiled rice, the same as for other curries. Time. —h hour. Average cost, exclusive of the moat, 6d. Seasonable in winter. MUTTON CUTLETS, with Mash- ed Potatoes. Ingredients.—Ahont 3 lbs. of the best end of the neck of mutton, salt and pep- per to taste, mashed potatoes. 3Iode.— Procure a well-hung neck of mutton, saw oflF about 3 inches of the top of the bones, nnd cut tho cutlets of a moderate thick- Mutton, Haricot nass. Shape them by chopping off tho thick part of tho chine-bone; beat them flat with a cutlet-chopper, and scrape quite clean, a portion of tho top of the MTJTTOK CDTLET8. bone. Broil them over a nice clear fire for about 7 or 8 minutes, and turn them frequently. Have ready some smoothly- mashed white potatoes; place these in the middle of the dish; when the cut- lets are done, season with pepper and salt; arrange them round the potatoes, with the thick end of the cutlets down- wards, and serve very hot and quickly. Time.—7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s. id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. JYote>—Cutlets may be served in va- rious ways; with peas, tomatoes, onions, sauce piquant, &c. MUTTON, Braised Fillet of, with French Beans. Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of mutton, buttered paper, French beans, a little glaze, 1 pint of gravy. Mode.— Roll up the mutton in a piece of buttered paper, roast it for 2 hours, and do not allow it to acquire the least colour. Have ready some French beans, boiled, and drained on a sieve; remove the paper from the mutton, glaze it; just heat up the beans in the gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. The remainder of the gravy may be strained, and sent to table in a tureen. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, Shd. perlh. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Haricot. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle or best end of the neck of mutton, 3 car- rots, 3 turnips, 3 onions, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup or Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Trim off some of tho fat, cut the mutton into rather thin chops, and put them into a frying-pan with tho fat trimmings. Fry of a palo brown, but do not cook them enough for eating. Cut the carroU and