35G TEE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 2 blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of salfl' (Jd. .Siillicienl for an entr(Jo, Season- Veal, Fricandeau of table, then at ono stroko of tlio knife, cut off as much as is rciiuired, for a fricandeau witli an uneven surface never looks well. Trim it, and with a sharp knifo make two or three slits in the middle, that it may tasto more of the seasoning. Now lard it thickly with fat bacon, as lean pives a red colour to the fricandeau. Slice the vegetables, and put these, with the herbs and spices, in the middle of a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon at the top : these should form a sort of mouud in the centre for the veal to rest upon. Lay the frican- deau over the bacon, sprinkle over it a little salt, and 23our in just sufBcient stock to cover the bacon, &c., without touching the veal. Let it gradually come to a boil; then put it over a slow and equal fire, and let it simmer very gently for about 2^ hours, or longer should it be very large. Baste it frequently with the liquor, and a short time before serving, put it into a brisk oven, to make the bacon firm, which otherwise would break when it was glazed. Dish the fricandeau, keep it hob, skim off the fat from the liquor, and reduce it quickly to a glaze, with which glaze the fricandeau, and serve with a pur^e of whatever vegetable happens to be in season—spinach, sorrel, asparagus, cucumbers, peas, &c. Time. —2| hours. If very large, allow more time. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonahle from March to October. VEAIi, Fricandeau of (more econo- mical). Ingredients.—The best end of a neck of veal (about 2i lbs.), lardoons, 2 car- rots, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little whole white pepper, a few slices of fat bacon. Mode.—Cut away the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal with a sharp knife, scooping it from the bones. Put the bones in with a little water, which will serve to moisten the frican- deau: they should stow about 1^ hour. Lard the veal, proceed in the same way as in the preceding recipe, and be care- ful that the gravy does not touch the fricandeau. Stew very gently for 3 tours; glaze, and serve it on sorrel, apinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. Tivie.—3 hours. Average cost, able from Maroh to October. Veal, Stewed Knuckle of, and Bit KNUCKLB OF VEAL. Note.—When the prime part of tl leg is cut off, it spoils the whole; c- Bcqucntly, to use this for a fricando. is rather extravagant. The best end the neck answers the purpose nearly (: quite as welL VEAI/, to Carve a Knuckle of. The engraving, showing the dotte^ line from 1 to 2, sufliciontly indi- cates the direc- tion which should \>3 given to the knife in carvingthisdish. The best slices are those from the thickest part of the knuckle, that is, outside the li' 1 to 2. VEAL, to Eagout a Knuckle of. Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, peppr and salt to taste, flour, 1 onion, 1 head i celeiy, or a little celery-seed, a faggot ■ savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mac thickening of butter and flour, a fe young carrots, 1 tablespoonful of tomn' sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, t' juice of h lemon. Mode.—Cut the me from a knuckle of veal into neat slice season with pepper and salt, and dred them with flour. Fry them in a lit; butter of a pale brown, and put th' into a stewpan with the bone (whi should be chopped in several places add the celery, herbs, mace, and carrot pour over all about 1 pint of hot watc and let it simmer very gently for 2 honi ■ over a slow but clear fire. Take out tl slices of meat and carrots, strain an thicken the gravy with a little butt rolled in flour ; add the remaining ingr. dients, give one boil, put back the mcc and carrots, let these get hot througl i and serve. When in season, a few gree peas, hoiled separafelj/, and added to th' dish at the moment of sen-ing, would t found a very agreeable addition. Tint' ■ —2 hours. Average cost, 5d. to 6d. pe lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. VEAL, Stewed Knuckle of, ami Eice. Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, 1 onio; j lb. of rice. Mode.—Have the knuckl id \