89 THE DICTIONARY Off COOKERY. Beef, Miniature Round of or 10 persons. Seasonatle all the year, »ut more suitable for winter. tSoyer's Recipe for Preserving the ravy in Salt Meat, wlien it is to be erved Cold.—Fill two tubs with cold 'ater, into which throw a few pounds of 3ugh ice ; and when the meat is done, ut it iiito one of the tubs of ice-water; st it remain 1 minute, when take out, ad put it into the other tub. Fill the fi rst lb again with water, and continue this recess for about 20 minutes ; then set upon a dish, and let it remain until lite cold. When cut, the fat will be I white as possible, besides having ,ved the whole of the gravy. If there no ice, spring water will answer the ine purpose, but will require to be ore fi-equently changed. Ifoie.—The brisket and rump may be >iled by the above recipe; of course lowing more or less time, according to e size of the joint. EEF, Miniature Round of (an ex- cellent Dish for a small Family). Ingredients.—From 5 to 10 lbs. of ribs beef, sufiBcient brine to cover the meat. ode.—Choose a fine rib, have the bone noved, rub some salt over the inside, d skewer the meat up into a nice round s -ra, and bind it with tape. Put it into Ticient brine to cover it (see Beef iCLE), and let it remain for 6 days, turn- t.he moat every day. When required to dressed, drain from the pickle, and the meat into very hot water ; boil it lidly for a few minutes, then draw pot to tho side of the fire, and simmer ueef very gently until done. Eemove skewer, and replace it by a plated ^ 1 ver one. Carrots and turnips should i served with this dish, and may be I fled with tho meat. 'lime.—A small !id of 8 lbs., about 2 hours after the •rboils; one of 12lbs.,about3hours. ■uffe cost, M. per lb. Sufficient for rsons. Seasonalle at any time. "<e.—Should tho joint bo very small, 5 days will be sufficient time to it. 1 EF, to Pickle part of a Round, Lor Hanging. ' r/reditnU.—FoY 14 lbs. of a round of allow 1^ lb. of salt, h ok. of powdered -etro J or, 1 lb. of salt, ^ lb. of sugar, Beef, Roast Sirloin of h oz. of powdered saltpetre. Mode.— Eub in, and sprinkle either of the above mixtures on 14 lbs. of meat. Keep it in an earthenware pan, or a deep wooden tray, and turn twice a week during 3 weeks; then bind up the beef tightly with coarse linen tape, and hang it in a kitchen in which a fire is constantly kept, for 3 weeks. Pork, hams, and bacon may be cured in a similar way, but will require double the quantity of the salting mixture ; and, if not smoke- dried, they should be taken down from hanging after 3 or 4 weeks, and after- wards kept in boxes or tubs, amongst dry oat-husks. Time.—2 or 3 weeks to remain in the brine ; to be hung 3 weeks. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The meat may be boiled fresh from this pickle, instead of smoking it. BEEP SAUSAGES. Ingredients.—To every lb. of suet allow 2 lbs. of lean beef ; seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mode. —Clear the suet from skin, and chop that and the beef as finely as possible; season with pepper, salt, and spices, and mix the whole well together. Make it into flat cakes, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mor- tar after it is chopped, but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost) for this quantity. Is. 6d. Season- able at any time. BEEP, Roast Sirloin of. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode. —As a joint cannot be well roasted with- out a good fire, see that it is well made up about ^ hour before it is required, so BOAST 8IEL0IN OF BEBPo that when the joint is put down, it In clear and bright. Chooso a nice sirloin, tho weight of which should not exceea 16 lbs., as the outside would be too much done, whilst tho inside would iwt be done enough. Suit it or hook it on to the Mi