THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 69 Celery, Stewed celery well, cut off the decayed outside leaves, trim away the gi-een tops, and shape the root into a point; put it into the boiling water, let it boil rapidly until tender, then take it out, drain well, place it upon a dish, and pour over it about h pint of white sauce, made by re- cipe. It may also be plainly boiled as above, placed'on toast, and melted but- ter poured over, the same as asparagus is dished. Time.—'La.rge heads of celery 25 minutes, small ones 15 to '20 minutes, after the water boils. Aremc/e cost, 2d. per head. Sv.ficlent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. CELERY, Stewed (with "White Sauce). Iiujredieiils.—G heads of celery, ^ pint of white stock or weak broth, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, thickening of butter and flour, 1 blade of pounded mace, a vcn/ Utile grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste. Mode—Wash the celery, Ktrip off the outer leaves, and cut it into lengths of about 4 inches. Put these into a saucepan, with tbe broth, and stew till tender, which will bo in from 20 to 25 minutes ; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer altogether for 4 or 5 minutes, pour into a dish, and servo. It may be garnished with sippets of toasted bread. TiHie.—Altogether, ^ hour. Ave- rage cost, 2d. per head. S'nfficie7il for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonulle from October to April. Note. — By cutting the celery into smaller pieces, by stowing it a little longer, and, when done, by pressing it through a sieve, the above stew may be converted into a Puree of Celery. CELERY VIjSTEQAB. Inrjredicnts.—\ oa. of celery-seed, 1 pint of vinegar. Jl/oie.—Crush the seed by pounding it in a mortar; boil the vinegar, and when cold, pour it to tho seed ; let it infuso for a fortnight, when strain and bottle off for use. This is frcqticntly used in salads. CHAMPAGNE-CUP. Ingredients.—1 quart bottle of cham- pagne, 2 bottles of soda-water, 1 llqueur- gUiss of br.andy or Cura(;oa, 2 tablespoon- fuls of powdered sugar, 1 lb. of pounded ice, a sprifj of green borage. Mode.— Put aK tho ingredients into a silver cup ; CHAHLOTTE-AUX-POMMES. Charlotte-aux-Pommes stir them together, and serve the same as claret-cup. Should the nhowQ proper- tion of sugar not be found sufficient to suit some tastes, increase the quantity. When borage is not easily obtainable, substitute for it a few slices of cucumber- rind. Seasonable.—'&w\tn\Ao for pic-nics, balls, weddings, and other festive occa- sions. CHARLOTTE-AUX-rOMMES. Ingredients.— A few slices of rather stale bread h inch thick, clarified butter, apple marmalade, with about 2 dozen apples, ^ glass of sherry. Mode.—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bot- tom of a plain round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the-mould, and about 1^ inch wide; dip tho bread in cla- rifled butter (or spread it with cold but- ter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, overlapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may ©scape, and that they may hold firmly to tho mould. Brush the interior over with the white of egg (this will assist to make tho case firmer) ; fill it with tho apple marmalade, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover them with a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg, the same as tho bottom ; slightly press the bread down to make it adhere to the other pieces ; put a plate on the top, and bako the charlotte in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over tho top, and pour round it a little melted aj^ricot jam. Time.— 40 to 50 minutes. A vcrage cost. Is. Od. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. SeasonubU from July to March. CHARLOTTE - AUX - POMMES, an easy method of making. Ingredients.—h lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of powdered stigjr, h tea- spoonful of baking-powder, 1 egg, milk, 1 glass of raisin-wirio, apple marmalade, ;J pint of cream, 2 dessert spoonfuls of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfiils of lemon*