185 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Liqueur Jelly c—Beat up tho yolks of the eggs, hich add the milk, and strain the e through a hair-sieve. When the m is being added to the sauce it is ided to thicken, care must be exer- l to keep stirring it during the whole , or, otherwise, the eggs will curdle, lould only just simmer, but not bolL tUEUR JELLY. gredients.—l lb. of lump sugar, 2 oz. inglass, \h pint of water, the juice of mons, \ "pint of liqueur. Mode.— the sugar, with 1 pint of the water, a stewpan, and boil thom gently by side of the fire until there is no scum lining, which must be carefully re- ed as fast as it rises. Boil the isin- j with the other h pint of water, and OTAIi JELLT U0T7LI). HI it carefully in the same manner. i lin the lemon-juice, and add it, with clarified isinglass, to the syrup ; put ;he liqueur, and bring the whole to boiling-point. Let the saucepan lain covered by tho side of the fire a few minutes; then pour the jelly 3Ugh a bag, put it into a mould, and the mould in ice until required for lo. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe outside, loosen tho jelly by passing a fe round the edges, and turn it out efully on a dish. Noyeaii, Maraschino, •agoa, brandy, or any kind of liqueur, wers for this jelly ; and, when made h isinglass, liqueur jollies are usually pared as directed above. Time.— minutes to boil the sugar and water, erage cost, with tho best isinglass,. Qd. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. soTidble at any time. VER AND LEMON SAUCE, for Poultry. 'ngredients.—The liver of a fowl, one ion, salt to taste, ^ pint of molted Lobsters, to boil butter, il/orfe.—Wash the liver, and let it boil for a few minutos ; peel the lemon very thin, remove the white part and pips, and cut it into very small dice; mince the liver and a small quantity of the lemon rind very fine; add these in- gredients to \ pint of smoothly-made melted butter ; season with a little salt, put in the cut lemon, heat it gradually, but do not allow it to boil, lest the butter should oil. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient to serve with a pair of small fowls. LIVER AND PARSLEY SAUCE, for Poultry. Ingredients.—The liver of a fowl, one tablespootiful of minced parsley, h pint of melted butter. Mode.—Wash and score the liver, boil it for a few minutes, and mince it very fine; blanch or scald a small bunch of parsley, of which there should be sufficient when chopped to fill a tablespoon ; add this with the minced liver, to h pint of smoothly-made melted butter; let it just boil; when serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient for a pair of small fowls. LOBSTERS, to Boil. Ingredients.—^Ib. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is incrusted, it is a sign they are old: medium-sized lobsters are tho best. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; put in the lobster, and keep it boiling quickly from 20 minutes to ^ hour, according to its size, and do not forget to skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done enough, the spawn is not red : this must be obviated by great attention. Rub the shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. Time.— Small lobster, 20 minutes to h hour; large ditto, i to ^ hour. Average cost, medium size. Is. 6rf. to 2s. 6cZ. Seasonable &\l the year, but best from March to October. To CnoosE Lobsters.—This shell- fish, if it has been cooked alive, as it ought to have been, will havo a stiffness in tho tail, which, if gently raised, will return with a spring. Care, however, must be taken in thus proving it; for if the tail is pulled straight out, it will not