THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 247 Pickle, an Excellent unded mace, if liked; 3 quarts of )ck medium. Mode.—C\it up the easants, flour and braise them in the tter and bam till they are of a nice own, but not burnt. Put them in a iwpan, with the onions, celery, stock, (1 seasoning, and simmer for 2 hours, rain the soup ; pound the breasts with 0 crumb of the roll previously soaked, d the yolks of the eggs ; put it to the ip, give one boil, and serve. Time.— hours. Average cost, 2s. lOcZ. per •irt, or, if made with fragments of Id game, la. Seasonable from October February. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Fragments, pieces and bones of Id game, may bo used to great advan- :^e in this soup, and then 1 pheasant 11 suffice. LCKLE, an Excellent. hiffredients.—Equal quantities of me- uni-sized onions, cucumbers, and sauce- ples; 1.3 tcaspoonful of salt, f teaspoon- 1 of cayenne, 1 wineglassful of soy, 1 neglassful of sherry ; \'inegar. 3Iode. Hlice sufficient cucumbers, onions, and pies to fill a pint stone jar, taking care cut the slices very thin; arrange them alternate l.iyers, adding at the same ne salt and cayenne in the above pro- rtion ; pour in the soy and wine, and 1 up with vinegar. It will be fit for e the day it is made. Seasonable in igUit and September. [CKLE, Indian (very Superior). Ingredients.—To each gallon of vine- r allow 6 cloves of garlic, 12 shalots, 2 icks of sliced horseradish, | lb. of uised ginger, 2 oz. of whole black pper, 1 oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of spice, 12 cloves, ^ oz. of cayenne, 2 . of mustard-seed, | lb. of mustard, 1 . of tvu"meric ; a white cabbage, caiili- wers, radishpods, French beans, ghor- ns, small round pickling-onions, nas- rtiums, capsicums, chilies, &c. Mode.— it the cabbage, which must be hard d white, into slices, and the cauli- wers into small branches; sprinkle It over them in a largo dish, and let em remain two days ; then dry them, d put them into a vei-y large jar, with rlic, shalots, horseradish, ginger, pep- ir, allfipice, and cloves, in the above oportions. Boil sufficient vinegar to ver them, which pour oyer^ and, when Pickle, Mixed cold, cover up to keep them free from dust. As the other things for the pickle ripen at dift'erent times, they may be added as they are ready : these will be radish- pods, French beans, gherkins, small onions, nasturtiums, capsicums, chilies, &c., &c. As these are procured, they must, first of all, be washed in a little cold vinegar, wiped, and then simply added to the other ingredients in the large jar, only taking care that they are covered by the vinegar. If more vinegar should be wanted to add to the pickle, do not omit first to boil it before adding it to the rest. When you have collected all the things you require, turn all out iu a large pan, and thoroughly mix them. Now put the mixed vegetables into smaller jars, without any of the vinegar; then boil the vinegar again, adding as much more as will be required to fill the different jars, and also cayenne, mus- tard-seed, turmeric, and mustard, which must be well mixed with a little cold vinegar, allowing the quantities named above to each gallon of vinegar. Pour the vinegar, boiling hot, over the pickle, and when cold, tie down with a bladder. If the pickle is wanted for immediate use, the vinegar should be boiled twice more, but the better way is to make it dm-ing one season for use during the next. It will keep for yeirs, if cai'e is taken that the vegetables are quite covered by the vinegar. This recipe was taken from the di- rections of a lady whose pickle was always pronounced excellent by all who tasted it, and who has, for many years, exactly followed the recipe given above. Note.—For small families, perhaps the above quantity of pickle will be con- sidered too large ; but this may be de- creased at pleasure, taking care to pro- perly proportion the various ingredients. PICKLE, Mixed (very good). Ingredients,—To each gallon of -vine- gar allow i lb. of bruised ginger, | lb. of mustard, | lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard- seed, li oz. of tm-mei-ic, 1 oz. of ground black pepper, ^ oz. of cayenne, cauli- flowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nasturtiums, capsicums. Mode.—EaNe a largo jai-, with a lightly-fitting lid, in which put as much vinegar as required, rf^rving a little to mix the various powders to a Bmooth paste. Put into a basin