184 THE DICTTONARY Of COOKEHY. 5*rencli Terms BouiLLiR.—A French dish resembling hasty-imcMing. Bouillon.—A thin broth or soup. BiiAlSE.—To stew moat ivitli fat bacnn until it id tender, it having previously been blanched. BRAisiJ:itE.—A saucepan having a lid vilh lodges, to put fire on the top. Brideu. — To pass a packthread l-hrongh poultri', game, &c., to keep together iheir members. Caramel (bui-nt sugar).—This is made with a piece of sugar, of the size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a sauce- pan ; upon which a cuplul of stock is gra- dually poured, stirring all the time, and adding the broth little by little. It may be used with the leather of a quill, to colour moats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux; and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water in- stead of stock may be used to colour compC'es and other entremets. Casseiiole.—A crust of rice, which, after having been moulded into the form of a pie, is baked, and then tilled with a fricassee of white meat or a pur^e of game. CoAiPOTE.—A stew, as of fruit or pi- geons. consomme.- Croquette. potatoes. Croutons.—Sippets of bread. Daubikue.—An oval stuwpan, in which datihes ai'o cooked ; dauhes being meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Dksosser.—To l one, or take out the Dones from poultry, game, or fish. This is an operation requiring considerable experience. Entrees.—Small sido or comer dishea served with the first course. Entremets. — Small sido or corner dishes served with the second course. Escalopes.— Collops; small, round, thin pieces of tender meat, or of fish, beaten with the handlo of a strong knife to make them tender. Feuilletage.—Puff-paste^ Flambeu.—To singe fowl or game, after they have been picked. Fonceb.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan slices of ham, veal, or thin broad hHccs of bacon. Galette.—A broad thin cake. Gateau.—A cake, correctly speaking; but u.scd sometimes to denote a pudding and a kind ol tai t. GiJk.Ci;«.—To glaze, or spread upon -Rich stock, or gravy. — Ball of fried rice or French Terms hot meats, or larded fowl, a thick ar rich sauce or gravy, called fflaze. Th is laid on with a feather or brush, an in confectionary the term means to ic fruits and pastry with sugar, which gli tens on hanlening. IIors-d'<euvi,es.— Small dishes, c assietles volantes of sardines, ancliovic and other relishes of this kind, served 1 the guests during the first course. (.S ASSIETTES volantes.} Lit.—A bed or layer; articles in thi slices are placed in layers, otlier arti'de or seasoning, being laid between them. Maigre.—Broth, soup, or gravy, mac without meat. Matelote.—A rich fish-stew, whic is generally composed of carp, eel. trout, or barbel. It is made with wine Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or sala dressing. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—A kind of icing, made « whites of eggs and sn-^ar, well beaten. Mi ROTO N.—Larger slices of meut tba collops ; such as slices of beef for a vina grotte, or ragntlt or stew of onions. Mouiller.—To add water, broth, c other liquid, during the cooking. PaNER. — To cover with very fit crumbs of bread, meats, or any otlic articles to be cookeil on the gridiron, i the oven, or fryin_:-p;ui. PiQUER.—To lard with strips of fr bacon, poultry, game, meat, &c. Tlr should always be done according to tb vein of the moat, so that in carvin>.' yo slice the bacon across as well as the me; ' PoKLiiE.—Stock used instead of w.H ^ for boiling turkeys, sweet! >rea Is, fowfe and vegetables, to render them less ir sipid. —This is rather an expensiv preparation. PUKEE.—Vegetables or meat reduce to a very smooth pulp, which is nft ^ wards mixed with enough liquid to ni • ■ it of the consistency of very thick souj. Eagout.—Stew or hash. Remoulade.—Salad dressing. Rissoles.— Pastry, made of light pufl paste, and cut into various forms, an' fried. They may bo filled with meat, or sweets. Roux.—Brown and white; Froa thickening. . . Salmi.-Ragofit of game previoi; roasted. Sauce Piquante.—A sharp sauco, which somewhat pf a viucirar fla' predominates. fish