153 THE DICTIO^TARY OF COOKEUY. Ham, to Boil sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if wanted" vtrticularly nice, gliizo It. Place a paper rill ruiind the knuckle, and trarnisli vyith )arsley or cut vegetable flowers. Time. —Ah iin weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours to sim- mer gadly ; 15 lbs., 5 hours; a very largo one, abo it 6 hours. Average cost, from Bd. to Is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable all the year. HA M, how to Boil to ] give it an excellent flavour. Ingredients. — Vinegar and water, 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips, 3 onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.— Prepare the ham as in the preceding recipe, and let it soak for a few hom-s in vinegar and water. Put it on in cold water, and when it boils, add the vege- tables and herbs. Simmer very gently until tender, take it out, strip off the skin, cover with bread-raspings, aua put paper niche or fiill round the knuckle. Time.—A ham weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours. Average cost, M. to Is. per lb. by the hole ham. Seasonable at any time. lAM, to Carve. In cutting a ham, the carver must be juided according as he desires to practise joonomv, or have, at once, fine slices lUt of the prime part. Under the tii-st pposition, he will commence at the lUckle end, and cut off thin slices owards the thick part of the ham. To ■each the choicer portion, the knife, which oust be very sharp and thin, should be sarried quite down to the bone, in the .irection of the lino 1 to 2, The slices 3(1 be thin and oven, and always cut VTi to the bone. There aro some who to carve a ham by cutting a hole at 10 top, and then slicing pieces off inside ie hole, gra<lually enlarging the circle ; lut wo think this is a plan not to bo 9Commcndod, A ham, when hot, is Jsually sent to table with a paper ruffle id tho knuckle. Hams, to Fickle HAMS, for Curing (Mona. Ude's Kecipe). Iiigr^dients.—For 2 hams weighing about 16 or 18 lbs. each, allow 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lb. of common salt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 1 quart of good vinegar. Mode.—As soon as the pig is old enough to be cut u|.i, take the 2 hams and rub them well with common salt, and leave them in a large pan for 3 days. When the salt has drawn out all the blood, drain the hams, and throw the brine away. Mix sugar, salt, and saltpetre together in the above proportion, rub the ham:j woU with these, and put them into a vessel large enough to hold them, always keep- insr the salt over them. Let them remain for 3 days, then p >ur over them a quart of good vinegar. Turn them in the brine every day for a month, then drain them well, and rub them with bran. Have them smoked over a wood fire, and be particular that th<» hams are hung as high up as possible from '■■he fire; otherwise the fat will melt, and thoy will become dry and hard. Time.—To be pickled 1 month; to be smoked 1 month. <Si(i^t- cient for 2 hams of 18 lbs. each. Season- able from October to March. HAMS, to Cure Sweet, in tlie "West- moreland way. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of common salt, 3 lbs. of coarse sugar, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 3 quarts of strong beer. Mode.—Before the hams are put into pickle, rub them the preceding day well with salt, and drain the brine well from them. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil for ^ hour ; pour over the hams, and let them remain a month in tho pickle. Rub and turn them every day, but do not take them out of the pickling-pan; and have them smoked for a month. Time.— To be pickled 1 month ; to be smoked 1 month. Seasonable from October to March. HAMS, to Pickle (Suffolk Hecipe). Ingredients. —To a ham from 10 to 12 lbs., allow 1 lb. of coarse sui^ar, ^ lb. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, k a teacupful of vinegar. Mode.—Kub 'the hams well with common salt, and leave them for a day or two to drain ; then rub well in tho above proportion of sugar, salt, salt- petre, and vinegar, and turn tnom ovory