Ivi Philosophy of Housekeeping. 380. TO THOHOUGHLY CLEAN THE DBAWINO-KOOM. First remove all furniture to the centre of the room, packing it up carefully, and placing all ornaments, pictures, &c., upon the centre table. Coverall with the dusting-sheets. Strew the carpet with well-washed tea-leaves, and sweep as directed on page liv ; dust walls and cornices with the brushes for that purpose; then clean the grate, hearth, &c., mantelpiece, looking-glasses, and windows; dust and replace the pictures, washing the frames with gin, and rubbing the cords well with a duster. Replace the furniture after well dusting and rubbing it with furniture-polish (page Ixiii). Carefully wash or rub the ornaments, and replace them. A large room with much furniture can bo cleaned in this manner in from three to four hours by two persons. 361. The cook also, in her department, should have particular days for " thorough cleanings." 362. Thus, Mondays she too gives to the washing. Tuesday she washes tho hall. Wednesday, thoroughly cleans the dining-room. Thursday, cleans tho front kitchen and scours all tho tins. Friday, the back kitchen and pantries; and Saturday, the hall, the kitchen stairs, and basement passage. Steps every day. 863. Therefore, on Tuesday, while the housemaid is engaged with the bod- rooms, THE COOK CLEANS THE HALL AND STEPS, [Seepage xlix.) 384. TO THOHOUGHLY CLEAN THE DINING-KOOM, She should first roll up the rug and remove the fonder and fire-irons. Then gather together tho furniture in the middle of the room, the chairs turned one upon another, and cover them all with dusting-sheets. She should remove all tho plate, &c., from tho top of tho sideboard, and either put it into tho sideboard or remove it from the room. She should then, having first sprinkled the carpet with damp tea-loaves, sweep the room, beginning at the door, going into all tho corners, and bringing the dust to the hearthstone, where she should collect it in the dustpan and remove it. 365. She should then clean the grate and hearthstone, bringing up for the purpose tho housemaid's box, a pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and hearthstone. She should first lay down a coarae cloth over the carpet in front of the fireplace, and place her utensils upon it. If there are the remains of a fire in tho grate, that must be first cleared away and placed in the cinder-box. She should then black- lead the grate, laying it on with a soft brush, rubbing it off with a harder, and