z Philosopliy of Housekeeping. satin stitch embroidery in white or in ingi-ain colours. Do not forget to re-mark any linen that has had the hems cut off and the marks turned in. 59. For Marking with ink, use a quill pen and Bond's marking-ink. The writing should bo neat, and the word ironed as soon as written. For ironing after marking, a small board about a foot square should be used, and kept for the pujpose. It should be covered with a thick flannel, nailed on, and with a clean linen cover lacked on. The iron-rest must never be placed on the table, in case of the heat drawing the polish into blisters. To ascertain if an iron is hot, scatter a drop of water on it; the water should fizz and roll ofif in haste to escape. Always try the iron on a coarse cloth first before placing it over the name, and do not keep it on more than a second if the iron is hot, as it should be. Never mark clothes or linen when it is returned ^rom the wash, unless ■perfecily dry, which is not often the case. The ink runs on a damp surface, and an untidy mark appears in place of a neatly-written name. 60. As the House-LiNENrequires inspection and mending, so the body-linen of the household should undergo revision during leisurely winter days, and every article should be re-taped, re-buttoned, darned, and mended. Newsetsof clothessbould be cut out and made. It is best, in cutting out, to tear the skirts of chemises off from the piece, and use the remainder for the smaller parts, as sleeves, gores, bands, &c. Gores are usually cut from the upper part and added to the lower. In making under-clothing, whether by hand or by machine, care and exactness of detail should prevail. The machine-worker should take her place at the window, with the machine well cleaned, oiled, and worked for a few seconds without being threaded up. The seams should be prepared and handed to her. Let us take six chemises for an example. The gores must first be stitched, then felled, so the twelve gores must be handed to her lightly tacked in position. While the is stitching these, the fells must be turned down and tacked ; she then i^Wi these ; while felling, the finished gores are being tacked in their proper places,. and the chemise length closed on each side ; the twelve sides and the other sidoo of the gore ai-e then stitched and felled in due succession. The sleeves follow the same order, and the band, if plain ; if made with much tucking and stitchin much adornment with insertion, it is best to complete the bands before beginnin the skirts ; get suflBcient tucking done in strips from three to five tucks in a strip; arrange and basto them with the embroidery or lace at night, as the work is light and easy, and can be taken up or left at will. Then the stitching can be com< pleted altogether. The difficulties met with by some ladies in working theii.i sewing-machines are, we regret to say, very much their own fault; of course, w( do not mean to say that if a lady buys a common imitation of a good machine a' about a quarter of the real cost, she must not expect to have some trouble witl her "bargain " ; but a lady possessing a Willcox & Gibbs, a Wheeler & Wilsoni a Silencieuse, or a Little Wanzer, should not have anything but praise to giv" ie|^,, her iron seamstress. But no machine will work well without oil, and they ait require clean and kind treatment, to be kept under cover, to bo well oiled an.