318 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soles, Fricasseed bread-crumbs, butter, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Skin, and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone, and divide each fillet in two pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and season- ing, and put them in a baking-dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for \ hour. "When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish, - with Italian sance {see Sauces) pourwd over. Time.—^ horn*. Average cost, from Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient for 4 or P persons. Seasonable at anytime. Whiting may be dressed in the same mannor, and wUl be found very deli- cious. SOLES, Fricasseed. Ingredients.—2 middling-sized soles, 1 small one, ^ teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated bread ; salt, pep- per, and nutmeg to taste ; 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, ^ pint of good gravy, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, cayenne and lemon-juice to taste. Mode.—Fry the soles of a nice brown, and drain them well from fat. Take all the meat from the small sole, chop it fine, and mix with it the lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning; work altogether, with the yolk of an egg and the butter; make this into small balls, and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessertspo')n» ful of flour, add the port wine, cayemi*!^ and lemon-juice ; lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently for 5 minutes; serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon. Time.—10 minutes to fry the soles. Average cost for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time.J SOLES, Fried Filleted. Soles for filleting should be largo, as the flesh can be more easily separated from the bones, and there is less waste. Skin and wash the fish, and i"aise the meat carefully from the bones, and di- vide it into nice handsome pieces. The more usual way is to roll the fillets, after dividing each one in two pieces, and either bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Brush over with egg, and cover with broad- crumbs; fry thorn as directed ia the Soles, -with. Mushrooms foregoing recipe, and garnish with fi; parsley and cut lemon. When a pre', dish is desired, this is by far the most c gant mode of dressing soles, as they much better than when fried whole. J stead of rolling the fillets, they may cut into square pieces, and arranged the shape of a pyramid on thp di- Time.—A.hout 10 minutes. Average co. from Is. to 2s. per pair. Sujficient, large soles for 6 persons. Seasonable ■ any time. SOLES, Fried, Ingredients.—2 middling-sized sole hot lard or clarified dripping, egg, a; bread-crumbs. Mode.—Skin and car fully wash the soles, and cut off the fii- wipe them very dry, and let them rem;, in the cloth until it is time to dress the:: Have ready some fine bread-crumbs a', beaten egg ; dredge the soles with a li'. ■ flour, brush them over with egg, a: cover with bread-crumbs. Put them i . a deep pan, with plenty of clarified drip: ping or lard (when the expense is not obi jected to, oil is still better) heated, ss that it may neither scorch the fish nc: make them sodden. When they are su: ! ficiently cooked on one side, turn ther: carefully, and brown them on the other.* they may be considered ready when thick smoke rises. Lift them out careo fully, and lay them before the fii'e on ; reversed sieve and soft paper, to absorH the fat. Particular attention should b paid to this, as nothing is more disagre€. able than greasy fish : this may be alway i avoided by dressing them in good timee and allowing a few minutes for them i:* get thoroughly crisp, and free from grease; moisture. Dish them on a hot napkina garnish with cut lemon and fried parsleyv and send them to table with shrimp saucj and plain melted butter. Time.—I'i minutes for large soles; less time fo < small ones. Average cost, from If. to 2** per pair. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons? Seaso7uible at any time. SOLES, with. Mushrooms. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 pint o water, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. salt, a littl lemon - juice, 2 middling - sized soles ■ Mode.—Cleanse the soles, but do no skin them, and lay them in a fish-kettle with the milk, water, butter, salt, an< lemon-juice. Bring them gradually t- boil, and let thorn simmer very gentl; (