THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 242 Pea Soup, Green quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. PEA SOUP (Green). Ingredients.—3 pints of green peas, i lb. oif butter, 2 or 3 thin slices of ham, 3 onions sliced, 4 shredded lettuces, the crumb of 2 French rolls, 2 handfuls of »pinach, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of )iedium stock. Mode.—Put the butter, Jam, 1 quart of peas, onions, and let- mces, to a pint of stock, and simmer for $u hour ; then add the remainder of the 4tock, with the crumb of the French •oils, and boil for another hour. Now joil the spinach, and-squeeze it very dry. ilub the soup through a sieve, and the spinach with it, to colour it. Have ready a pint of young peas boiled; add them to the soup, put in the sugar, give one boil, and serve. If necessary, add salt. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, Is. dd. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—It will be well to add, if the peas are not quite young, a little more sugar. Where economy is essential, water may be used instead of stock for this soup, boUing in it likewise the pea- shells ; but using a double quantity of vegetables. PEA SOUP, Winter (TeUow). Ingredients.—1 quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin beef, trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 turnips, 5 large onions, 1 head of celery, eeasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled. Mode.— Put the peas to soak over-night in soft water, and float off such as rise to the top. Boil them in the water till tender enough to pulp ; then add the ingre- dients mentioned above, and simmer for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Pass the whole thi-ough a sieve, skim well, season, and servo with toasted broad cut in dice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable nil the year round, but more suitable for cold weather. Sufficient for 12 persona. PEACHES, Compote of. Ingredients.—1 p^nt of syrap, about 15 small peaches. i/oc{«.—Poaches that Peaches Preserved in Brandy are not very large, and that would not look well for dessert, answer very nicely for a compote. Divide the peaches, take out the stones, and pare the fruit; make a syrup by recipe, put in the peaches, and stew them gently for about 10 mi- nutes. Take them out without breaking, arrange them on a glass dish, boil tha syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, let it cool, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be ready for table. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonalle in August and September. PEACH PBITTERS. Ingredients.—For the batter, J lb. of flour, ^ oz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, peaches, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Make a nice smooth batter; skin, halve, and stone the peaches, which should be quite ripe; dip them in the batter, and fry the pieces in hot lard or clarified dripping, which should be boiling before the peaches are put in. From 8 to 10 mi- nutes will be required to fry them; when done, drain them before the fire. Dish them on a white d'oyley. Strew over plenty of pounded sugar and serve. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry the fi-itters, 6 minutes to drain them. Ave- rage cost. Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and Sep- tember. PEACHES PKE SERVED IN BBANDY. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weighed before being stoned, allow | lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar; brandy. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather ; wipe and weigh it, and remove the stones as carefully as possible, with- out injuring the peaches much. Put them into a jar, sprinkle amongst them pounded loaf sugar in the above propor- tion, and pour brandy over the fruit. Cover the jar down closely, place it in & saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and bring the brandy to the simmering, point, but do not allow it to boil. Take the fruit out carefully, without breaking it; put it into small jars, pour over it the brandy, and, when cold, exclude tlio air by covering the jars with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both Bides with tho wliito of aa egg. Apricol-c