XXT Spring Cleauing. recommend the belladonna and collodion flexile to be painted, and the protective film allowed to permanently remain. Obstinate cases are occasionally met with which no local application will remedy, until some disordered state of the system is removed, or the general condition of the health improved. SPBIITG CLEAisriisrG-. 146. In spring and autumn more extended cleaning operations go on, and the time for these periodical cleanings is usually May and October. All white- washing, painting, and general repairs should be done in the spring, and during the cleaning carpets should be taken up, well beaten, mended, and turned so as to bring the worn pieces out of sight. Care must be taken to match the design of the carpet. All ornaments should be carefully washed, cleaned, or relacqnored. Curtain-poles taken down, washed with vinegar, and rubbed bright with furniture- polish, page Ixiii. Looking-glasses cleaned, see page Ixiv, Chairs and sofas re- covered or invested with loose chintz covers. Paper rubbed down with the clean rumb of stale quartern loaves. Ornaments placed in fire-stoves, and white urtains bung up in place of the damask or chintz, which should be well haken, folded in large folds, with a couple of handfuls of dry bran laid between ch fold, and a piece of camphor placed in the drawer or box in which they ire kept. 147. All woollen antimacassars should be replaced by lace or cotton couvrettes, 148. When carpets are re-laid, the colours are greatly revived by adding a small quantity of ox-gall to warm water and washing them over with the mixture: plenty of air must be admitted after this, as the smell is very strong, 149. Locks should now be taken off, cleaned, and oiled, bell-wires adjusted, nd bell-handles tightened, if necessarJ^ 150. The chimney of each room should be swept, and care taken to see that he brush is sent up through the top of the chimney. 151. In olden days, all fires save the kitchen were left oflf onthe twenty-fifth of arch, and the house-cleaning began as soon after as possible. Now, in these egenerate days, it is not until May that many among us begin to turn the house t of windows. The first fine week after May 1st is a good rule, but a fine hot pril will sometimes tempt us to begin before the sun gains much power. At the d of March all the blankets that can be spared should be washed and hung out the brisk wind to dry, then thoroughly aired by a good fire for twelve hours, d stored in a dry place, 152. The first thing to be done when beginning a " spring clean," whether in arch, April, or May, is to ascertain what pieces of furniture want renovating,