285 •tHE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, Eaisin Pudding, Baked saltspoonful of salt, milk. Mode.—After aaving stoned the raisins and chopped ;he suet finely, mix them with the flour, idd the salt, atid when these dry ingre- iients are thoroughly mixed, moisten ;he pudding with sufficient milk to make t into a rather stifi" paste. Tie it up in I fioiu-ed cloth, put it into boiling water, md boil for 4 hours: serve with sifted sugar. This pudding may also be made n a long shape, the same as a rolled jam- judding, and will not require quite so ong boiling;—2^ hours would then be luite sufficient. Time.—Made round, 4 lours ; in a long shape, 21 hours. Ave- •age cost, 9d. Sufficient for"8 or 9 persons. ■reasonable in winter. flAISIN PUDDING-, Baked. (Plain and Economical.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, f lb. of toned raisins, h lb. of suet, a pinch of alt, 1 oz. of sugar, a little gi-ated nutmeg, nilk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely ; tone the raisins and cut them in halves ; nix these with the suet, add the salt, ugar, and grated nutmeg, and moisten he whole with sufficient milk to make it •f the consistency of thick batter. Put .ho pudding into a pie-dish, and bake or lA hour, or rather longer. Turn it lut of the dish, strew sifted sugar over, md serve. This is a veiy plain recipe, iud suitable where there is a family of ihildren. It, of courso, can be much mproved by the addition of candied peel, uri-ants, and rather a larger proportion if suet: a few eggs would also make the (udding richer. Time.—1^ hour. Ave- nge cost, 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 lersons. Seasonable in winter. iAMAKINS, to serve with the Cheese Course. Ingredients.—\ lb. of Cheshire cheese, • lb. of Parmesan cheese, ^ lb. of fresh •utter, 4 eggs, the crumb of a mall roll; pepper, salt, and pounded naco to taste. Mode.—Boil the crumb ■f the roll in milk for 5 minutes ; strain, .nd put it into a mortar; add the cheese, rhich should bo finely scraped, the mtter, the yolks of the eggs, and season- Qg, and pound these ingredients well ogether. Whisk the whites of the eggs, Qix them with the paste, and put it into mall pans or saucers, which sliould not •e more than half filled. Bake them rom 10 to 12 minutes, and Berre them Easpberry Cream very hot and very quickly. This batter answers equally well for macaroni after it is boiled tender, time.—10 or_ 12 minutes. A verage cost. Is. id. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. EAMAKINS PASTRY, to serve with the Cheese Course. Ingredients.—Any pieces of very good light puff-paste, Cheshire, Parmesan, or Stilton cheese. Mode.—The remains or odd pieces of paste left from large tarts, &c., answer for making these little dishes. Gather up the pieces of paste, roll it out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated cheese of a nice flavour. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and sprinkle more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and with a paste-cutter shape it in any way that may be desired. Bake the ramakins in a brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly. The appearance of this dish may be very much improved by brushing the ramakins over with the yolk of egg before they are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected to, Parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this dish. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, with \ lb. of paste, lOrf. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. RASPBEERY CREAM. Ingredients.—% pint of milk, | pint of cream, 1^ oz. of isinglass, raspberry jelly, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Boil the milk, cream, and isinglass together for \ hour, or until the latter is melted, and strain it through a hair sieve into a basin. Let it cool a Uttle; then add to it sufficient EASrBBEEX-CIlEAM MOULD. raspberry jelly, which, when melted, would make ^ pint, and stir well till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. If not sufficiently sweet, add a little pounded