256 Plum Pudding, Unrivalled BUgar well together; have ready the aliove proportions of mashed carrot and potato, which stir into the other ingre- dients ; add the treacle and lemon-peel; but put no liquid in the mixture, or it will be spoiled. Tie it loosely in a cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell, and boil it for 4 hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. This pudding is better for being mixed over-night. Time.— i hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in winter. PLUM PUDDING, Unrivalled. Ingredients. — IJ lb. of muscatel raisms, IJ lb. of currants, 1 lb. of sul- tana raisins, 2 lbs. of the finest moist sugar, 2 lbs. of bread crumbs, 16 eggs, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel, the rind of 2 lemons, 1 oz. of ground nutmeg, 1 oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. of pounded bitter al- monds, \ pint of brandy. Ifode.—Stone and cut up the raisins, but do not chop them; wash and dry the currants, and cut the candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs, which should be weU beaten and strained, to the pud- ding ; stir in the brandy, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, well butter and flour a stout new pudding-cloth; put in the pudding, tie it down very tightly and closely, boil from 6 to 8 hours, and serve with brandy-sauce. A few sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips, and stuck on the pudding, orna- ment it prettily. This quantity may be divided and boiled in buttered moulds. For small families this is the most desir- able way, as the above will be found to make a pudding of rather large dimen- sions. Time.—Q to 8 hours. Average cost, 7s. 6d. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 or 14 persons. 'A^ote.—The muscatel raisins can be purchased at a cheap rate loose (not in bunches) : they are then scarcely higher in price than the ordinary raisins, and impart a much richet' flavour to the pudding. PLUM PUDDING, a Plain Christ- mas, for Children. Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, 1 lb. of bread crumbs, f lb. of stoned raisins, f lb. of currants, ^ lb. of suet, 3 o- 4 eggs, Plum Pudding, Christmas milk, 2 oz. of candied peel, 1 teaspooi ful of powdered allspice, ^ saltspoonfi of salt. Mode.—Let the suet be finel chopped, the raisins stoned, and the cu rants well washed, picked and driec Mix these with the other dry ingredient and stir all well together; beat ar strain the eggs to the pudding, stir the: in, and add just sufficient milk to mal it mix properly. Tie it up in a we': floured cloth, put it into boiling wate and boil for at least 5 hours. Ser- with a sprig of holly placed in the mi die of the pudding, and a little pound< ■ sugar fsprinkled over it. Time.—5 hour- Average cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient for 9 . 10 children. Seasonable at Christmas.. PLUM PUDDING, Christmas (vei. good). Ingredients.—II lb. of raisins, h lb. currants, h lb. of mixed peel, ^ lb. of brea .i crumbs, f'lb. of suet, 8 eggs,l wineglassl^i of brandy. iV/orfe.—Stone and cut the rr sins in halves, butdonotchop them; was^ pick, and dry the currants, and min: the suet finely ; cut the candied peel in:^ thin sUces, and grate down the breo; into fine crumbs. When all these dry i: gredients are prepared, mix them w^^ together ;■ then moisten the mixture wi . the eggs, which should be well beateo CHKISTMAS rLTSI PCBDISG IS MOTJI.B»' and the brandy; stir well, that eve thing may be very thoroughly blend .< and'nrm the pudding into a buttei- mould; tie it down tightly with a flou cloth, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. It n. be boiled in a cloth without a mould, £. will require the same time allowed cooking. As Christmas puddings i usually made a few days before they . required for table, when the pudding taken out of the pot, hang it up inu diately, and put a plate or saucer urn neath to catch the water that may du