THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bacon, to Cure and Keep meat ; and a further dimimition of weight, to tho extent of 5 to 6 per cent, takes place in drying during tho first fortnight after being taken out of salt; so that tho total loss in weight occasioned by the preparation of bacon and hams in a proper state for market, is not less on an average than 15 per cent, on tho weight of the fresh pork. BACON, to Cure and Keep it free from Bust (Cobbett's Kecipe). The two sides that remain, and which are called flitches, are to be cured for bacon. They are first rubbed with salt on their insides, or flesh sides, then placed one on the other, the flesh sides upper- most, in a salting-trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine; for, to have sweet and fine bacon, the flitches must not be sopping in brine, which gives it tho sort of vile taste that barrel and sea pork have. Every one knows how different is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state ; therefore change the salt often,— once in 4 or 5 days ; let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long; twice change the flitches, put that at bottom which was first on the top : this mode will cost you a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, but without it your bacon will not be so sweet and flne, nor keep so well. As for the time required in making your flitches sufficiently salt, it depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place ; but for the flitches of a hog of five score, in weather not very dry or damp, about 6 weeks may do ; and as yours is to be fat, which receives little injury from over-salting, give time enough, for you are to havo bacon untU Christmas comes again. Tho place for salting should, like a dairy, always bo cool, but well ventilated; confined air, though cool, will taint meat sooner than the midday sun accompanied by a breeze. With regard to smoking the bacon, two precautions are necessary : first, to hang the flitches where no rain comes down upon them ; and next, that the smoke must proceed from wood, not poat, turf, or coal. As to tho time required to smoke a flitch, it depends a good deal upon whether there be a constant fire beneath ; and whether the fire be large or small: a mouth will do, if the fire be pretty- Bacon or Hams, to Cure constant and rich, as a farm-hou o fi usually is ; but over-smoking, or ruth too long hanging in tho air, makes tl bacon rust; great attention shoul'i iher fore be paid to this matter. Tl.o fiit- ought not to be dried up to the Lai dij^ of aboard, and yet it ought to be i fectly dry. Before you hang it up, lay on the floor, scatter the flesh side pret thickly over with bran, or willi soi fine sawdust, not of deal or fir; n;'^ if the flesh, or pat it well down i this keeps the smoke from gett the little openings, and makes a uj i crust to be dried on. To keep the Kac. sweet and good, and free from Loji]iei sift fine some clean and dry wood ashc Put some at the bottom of a box or chf long enough to hold a flitch of bacon ; 1 in one flitch, then put in more ashe.~, th another flitch, and cover this wiili six eight inches ot the ashes. The place v h£ tho box or chest is kept ought to ' ;! and, should the ashes become dai should be put in the fireplace to ■ when cold, put back again. Wit precautions, the bacon will be as the end of the year as on the first il simple general rules, these may be aai- taken as a guide ; and those who imp citly follow the directions givenji| possess at the expiration of from 6 '^H to 2 months well-flavoured and well-^H bacon. BACOlSr or HAMS, to Cure Devonshire -way. Ingredients.—To eveiy 14 lbs. of-^H allow 2 oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of saUH nella, 1 lb. of common salt. FomI pickle, 3 gallons of water, 5 lbs. of comlM salt, 7 lbs. of coai"se sugar, 3 lbs. of b' salt. Mode.—Weigh the sides, han and cheeks, and toeverj' 14 lbs. al:>'wt above proportion of saltpetre, salt pi nella, and common salt. Pound and n these together, and rub well into t meat; lay it in a stone trough or ti rubbing it thoroughlj', and turning daily for two successive days. A: < end of tho second day, pour on it a pid made .as follows :—Put the above i4 J dients into a saucepan, set it on thall and stir frequently; remove all tho^M allow it to boil for i hour, and P^M hot over the meat. Let tho bams,^! be well rubbed and turned daily ; <Wl moat is small, a fortnight will boJM cient for the sides end shoulders fll