133 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUf. Fowl, Boast, StTiflfed BOAST rowii. 3t)ilecl Fowl," supersede the necessity 3\ir lengthily again describing the ope- ~ ration. It may be add- ed, that the liver, being considered a delicacy, luld be divided, and one half served ,h each wing. In the case of a fowl ng stuffed, it will be proper to give ;h guest a portion, unless it bo not ecablo to some one o'f the party. )'W"L, Koast, Stuffed. ngredienis.—A large fowl, forcemeat, it'tle flour. Mode.—Select a largo mp fowl, fill the breast with forcc- it, truss it firmly, tlao same as for a In roast fowl, dredge it with flour, put it down to a bright fire. Roast )r nearly or quite an hour, should it . cry large; remove the skewers, and ^•0 with a good brown gravy and a 3en of bread sauce. Time.—Large |1, nearly or quito 1 hour. Average in full season, 2s. Gd. each. Sufficient 4 or 5 persons. Seasoiiahle aU the |r, but scarce in early spring. Vote.—Sausage-meat stuffing may be itituted : this is now a very general le of serving fowl. [WIj saute with Peas (an lEntr^e). ^OLD Mkat Cookery.] Ingredients. Ihe remains of cold roast fowl, 2 oz. putter, pepper, salt, and pnunded be to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, lint of weak stock, 1 pint of green p, 1 teaspooi.ful of pounded sugar. ie.—Cut the fi>wl into nico pieces; the butter into a stewpan ; sautez fry the fowl a nice brown colour, piously sprinkling it with pepper, , and puunded maco. Dredge in flour, shako the ingredients well id, then add the stock and peas, stew till the latter are tender, th will be in about 20 minutes ; put in pound.3 sugar, and serve, placing cVickcn round, and the peas in I middle of the dish. When liked, tirooms may be substituted for the . Time—Altogether 40 minutes. rage cost, exchisivo of tho fowl, 7d. -nble from Juno to August, French. Terms FOWL SCOLIiOPS. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— Tho remains of culd roast or boiled fowl, h pint of Bechamel, or white sauco, 3/otZe.—Strip off the skin from tho fowl; cut tho meat into thin slices, and warra them in about ^ pint, or rather more, of I3dchamel, or white sauce. When quito hot, servo, and garnish the dish with rolled ham or bacon toasted. Time.—1 minute to simmer the slices of fowl. Seasonable at any time. FBENCH TEKMS used in modern Household Cookei'y, explained. Aspic.—A savoury jelly, used as au exterior moulding for cold game, poultry, fish, &c. This, being of a transparent nature, allows tho article which it covers to be seen through it. This may also be used for decorating or garnishing. AssiETTB (plate).—Assiettes are the small entrees and hors • d'<mcvres, the quantity of which does not exceed what a plate will hold. At dessert, fruits, cheese, chestnuts, biscuits, &c., if served upon a plate, aro termed assiettes.— AssiETTE VOLANTE is a dish which a ser- vant hands round to the guests, but is not placed upon tho table. Small cheese souffles and different dishes, which ought to bo served very hot, aro frequently made assiettes volantes. Au-BLEU.—Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a htidsh appearance. Bain-marie.—An open saucepan or kettle of nearly boiling water, in which a smaller vessel can be set for cooking and warminir. This is very useful for keeping articles hot, without altering their (juantity or quality. _ If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and tho sauco thickens as well as re- duces; but this is prevented by using the bain-marie, in which the water should be very hot, but not boiling. BlJCHAMEL.—French white sauce, now frequently used in English cookery, Blanch.—To whiten poultry, vegeta- bles, fruit, &c., by plunging them into boiling water for a short time, and alter- wards plunging them into cold water, there to remain until they are cold. Blanquette.—A sort of fricassee. BouiLLi.—Beef or other meat boiled ; but, generally speaking, boiled beef i» understood by tho term,