13 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. April—Bills of Fare AJPBUi-BILLS OF FAHE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. Spring Soup, removed by Salmon and Lobster Sauce. a Vase of Flowers. Soles a la CrSme. a OQ O Second Course, Boast Bibs of Lamb. <a a Oj Larded Capon. bj <9 a a "J »' Vase of w I—• P Flowers. «-l O n i Spring Chickens. a Braised Turkey. Entries, Lamb Cutlets, Asparagus and Peas. n <» Vase of Patt ? Flowers. CD m rt- Grenadines de Vean. Third Course. is Dacklings, removed by Cabinet Pudding. O Charlotte ^ g k la Paiisienne. ^ " i-s ^ Vase of S, & Flowers. g ti O Easpberry Cream. P5 5* Nesselrode Pudding. 4) O Dessert and Ices. April—Dinners for 6 persons Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup k la reine; julienne soup; turbot and lobster sauce; slices of salmon k la gen^v^se. Entrees.—Cro- quettes of leveret; fricandeau de veau • vol-au-vent; stewed mushrooms. Second Course.—Fore-quarter of lamb ; saddle of mutton; boiled chickens, asparagus and peas; boiled tongue garnished with tufts of broccoli ; vegetables. Third Course.—Ducklings; larded guinea-fowls; charlotte k la parisienne; orange jelly; meringues ; ratafia ice pudding ; lobster salad; sea-kale; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Gravy soup; salmon and dressed cucumber ; shrimp sauce; fillets of whitings. Entrees.—Lobster cutlets; chicken patties. Second Course.—Eoast fillet of veal; boiled leg of lamb ; ham, garnished with broccoli; vegetables. Third Course.—Ducklings ; compSte of rhubarb; custards; vanilla cream; orange jelly ; cabinet pudding; ice pudding; dessert. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; slices of salmon and caper sauce; fried filleted soles. Entries. — Chicken vol-au-vent; mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. Second Course. —Roast loin of veal; boiled fowls h, la bechamel; tongue; vegetables. Third Course.—Guinea-fowls ; sea-kale ; artichoke bottoms ; cabinet pudding ; blancmange ; apricot tartlets ; rice frit- ters ; macaroni and Parmesan cheese; dessert. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course. — Tapioca soup; boiled salmon and lobster sauce. Entries.—■ Sweetbreads; oyster patties. Second Course. — Haunch of mutton ; boiled capon and white sauce; tongue; vege- tables. Third Course.—Souffle of rice ; lemon cream ; charlotte k. la parisienne ; rhubarb tart; dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup ; fried whitings ; rod mullet. Entrees.—Lamb cutlets and cucumbers ; rissoles. Second Course.—Roast ribs of beef; neck of veal Ji la bechamel; vegetables. Third Course,—Ducklings; lemon pudding; rhubarb tart; custards; cheesecakes; dossort.