270 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Preserves to them a quantity of powdered loaf- sugar, which will gradually penetrate the fruit, while the fluid parts of the fruit gently evaporate. They should be dried in the stove or oven on a sieve, and turned every six or eight hours, fresh powdered sugar being sifted over them every time they are turned. Afterwards, they are to be liept in a dry situation, in drawers or boxes. Currtnits and cher- ries preserved whole in this"mannv;r, in bunches, are extremely elegant, and have a fine flavour. In this way it is, also, that orange and lemon chips are pre-\ served. Marmalades, jams, and fruit pastes are of the same nature, and are now in very general request. They are prepared without difficulty, by attending to a very few du'ections ; they are somewhat ex- pensive, but may be kept without spoil- ing for a considerable time. Marmalades and jams differ little from each other: they are preserves of a half-liquid con- sistency, made by boiling the pulp of fruits, and sometimes part of the rinds, with sugar. The appellation of marma- lade is applied to those confitures which are composed of the firmer fruits, as pineapples or the rinds of oranges; whereas jams are made of the more juicy berries, such as strawberries, rasp- berries, currants, mulberries, &c. Fruit pastes are a kind of marmalades, con- sisting of the pulp of fruits, first evapo- rated to a proper consistency, and after- wards boiled with sugar. The mixture is then poured into a mould, or spread on sheets of tin, and subsequently dried in the oven or stove till it has acquired the state of a paste. From a sheet of this paste, strips may be cut and formed into any shape that may be desired, as knots, rings, &c. Jams require the same care and attention in the boiling as marmalade; the slightest degree of burning communicates a disagreeable empyreumatic tasto, and if they are not boiled sufficiently, they will not keep. That they may keep, it is necessary not to be sparing of sugar. In all the operations for preserve- making, when the preserving-pan is used, it should not bo placed on the fire but on a trivet, unless tho jam bo made on a hot plate, when this is not necessary. If the pan be placed close on to the fire, the preserve is very liable to burn, and the colour and flavour bo consoquontly spoiled. The Ptarmigan Fruit jellic3 are compounds of tho juices of fruits combined with sugar, concentrated, by boiUng, to such a con- sistency that the liquid, upon cooling, assumes the form of a tremulous jelly. Before fruits are candied, they must first be boiled in syrup, after which they are taken out and dried on a stove, or before the fire ; the syrup is then to be concentrated, or boiled to a candy height, and the fruit dipped in it, and again laid on the stove to dry and candy ; they are then to be put into boxes, and kei)t dry. Conserves consist of fresh vegetable ^atters beat into a uniform mass with ^d sugar, and they are intended to pressKve the virtues and properties of recen^flowers, leaves, roots, peels, or fruits, unaltered, and as near as possible to what they were when fresh gathered, and to give them an agreeable taste. The last to be mentioned, but not the least important preparation of fruit, is the comp6te, which can be made at the moment of need, and with much less sugar than would be ordinarily put to preserves. Comp6tes are very whole- some things, suitable to most stomachs which cannot accommodate themselves to raw fruit or a large portion of sugar. They are the happy medium—far better than ordinary stewed fruit. PTABMIGAW, the, or Wldte Grouse. This bird is nearly the same size as red grouse, and is fond of lofty situa- tions, where it braves the severest weather, and is found in most parts of Europe, as well as in Greenland. At THB PTABMIGAW. Iludson's Bay they appear in such mul- titudes that so many as sixty or seventy are frequently taken at onco iu a ne»