THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Bice Bread it is sent to table. This blancmange is better for being made the day before it is wanted, as it then has time to become firm. If laurel-leaves are used for flavour- ing, steep 3 of them in the milk, and take them out before the rice is added : about 8 drops of essence of almonds, or from 12 to 16 drops of essence of vanilla, would be required to flavour the above proportion of milk. Time.—From 10 to 15 minutes to boil the rice. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BICE BEEAD. Ingredients.—To eveiy lb. of rice allow 4 lbs. of wheat flom-, nearly 3 tablespoon- fuls of yeast, | oz. of salt. il/ocZe.—Boil the rice in water until it is quite tender 5 pour off the water, and put the rice, be- fore it is cold, to the flour. Mix these well together with the yeast, salt, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth dough ; let it rise by the side of the fire, then form it into loaves, and bake them from 1| to 2 hours, ac- cording to their size. If the rice is boiled in milk instead of water, it makes very delicious bread or cakes. When boiled in this manner, it may be mixed with the flour without straining the liquid from it. Time.—II to 2 hours. BICE, Buttered. Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1^ pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, grated nutmeg \or poimded cinnamon. Mode.—Wash and pick the rice, drain, * and put it into a saucepan with the milk; let it swell gradually, and, when tender, pour off the milk; stir in the butter, sugar, and nutmeg or cinnamon, and, vrben the butter is thoroughly melted, and the whole is quite hot, serve. After the milk is poured off, be particular that the rice does not burn: to prevent this, do not cease stirring it. Time.—About I hour to swell the rice. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seor sonalle at any time. BICE CAKE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ground rice, J lb. of flour, i lb. of loaf sugar, 9 eggs, 20 drops of essence of lemon, or the rind of one lemon, ^ lb. of butter. Mode. —Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; whisk them both well, and Bice, Savoury Casserole of add to the latter the butter beaten to a cream. Stir in the flour, trice, and lemon (if the rind is used it must be very finely minced), and beat the mixture well; then add the whites of the eggs, beat the cake again for some time, put it into a buttered mould -OAKE-MouLD. or tin, and bake it for nearly 1 ^ hour. It may be flavoured with essence of almonds, when this is preferred. ^Tm^. —Nearly 1J hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. Season- aile at any time. BICE, SAVOUBY CASSEBOLB OP; or Bice Border, for Ba- goMs, Fricassees, &c. (An Entree.) Ingredients.—1| lb. of rice, 3 pints of weak stock or broth, 2 slices of fat ham^ 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mode.—A casse- role of rice, when made in a mould, is not such a difficult operation as when it is moulded by the hand. It is an ele- gant and inexpensive entree, as the remains of cold fish, flesh, or fowl, may be served as oiSBEBOia OF BicB. requires great \ nicety in its preparation, the principal thing to attend to being the boiling of the rice, as, if this is not suflttciently cooked, the casse- role,- w]^en mdjilded, will have a rough appe'arahce, which would entirely spoil it. After having washed the rice in two or three waters, drain it well, and put it into a stewpan with the stock, ham, and salt; cover the pan closely, and let the rice gradually swell over^ a slqw fire, oc- casionally stirring, to prbvent itsisticking. When it is quite soft, strain it, pick out the pieces of ham, and, with the' back of a large wooden spoon, mash the rice to a perfectly smooth paste. Then well grease a mould (moulds are made pur- posely for rice borders), and tui-n it up- side down for a minute or two, to drain away the fat, should there be too much ; put some rice all round the bottom and sides of it; place a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice; press it in equally with the spoon.