THE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEHY. 315 Skate, Crimped SKATE, Crimped. Ingredients—I lb. of salt to each gallon of water. il/ocTe.—Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices, which roll and tie round with string. Have ready some water highly salted, put in the fish, and boil till it is done. Drain well, remove the string, dish on a hot napkin, and serve with the same sauces as above. Skate should never be eaten out of season, as it is liable to produce diarrhoea and other diseases. It may be dished without a napkin, and the sauce poured over. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average cost, Ad. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. SKATE, With. Caper Sauco (bi la Fran?aise). Ingredients.—2 or 3 slices of skate, ^ pint of vinegar, 2 oz. of salt, h teaspoon- ful of pepper, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch' of parsley, 2 bay-leaves, 2 or 3 sprigs of thyme, sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Put in a fish-kettle all the above ingredients, and simmer the skate in them till tender. When it is done, skin it neatly, and pour over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiling. Drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour over it caper sauco, and send some of the latter to table in a tureen. Time.—h hour. Average cost, id. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. Note.—Skate may also be served with onion sauce, or parsley and butter. SKATE, Small, Fried. Ingredients.—Skate, sufficient vinegar to cover them, salt and pepper to taste, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, the juice of h lemon, hot dripping. Mode.—Cleanse the skate, lay them in a dish, with sufficient vinegar to cover them ; add the salt, pepper, onion, pars- ley, and lemon-juice, and let the fish remain in this pickle for J hour. Then drain them well, flour them, and fry of a nice brown, in hot dripping. They may be served either with or without sauce. Skate is not good if dressed too fresh, unless it is crimped; it should, therefore, be kept for a day, but not long enough to produce a disagreeable smell. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, id. per lb. Seasonable from Au- ^st to April. Snipes, to Dress J SMELTS. When good, this fish is of & fine silvery appearance, and when alive, their backs are of a dark brown shade, which, afcer death, fades to a light fawn. They ought to have a relreshing fra- grance, resembling that of a cucumber, SMELTS, to Bake. Ingredients.—12 smelts, bread-crumbs, I lb. of fresh butter, 2 blades of pounded mace; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode. —Wash, and dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread-crumbs, and place little pieces of butter all over them. Season and bake for 15 minutes. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and gar- nish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Time.—| hour. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. Su£ia,ent for 6 persons. SMELTS, to Fry. Ingredients,—Egg and bread-cnimbs, a little flour ; boiling lard. Mode.— Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread-crumbs, and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the tire on a drainer, and serve with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnishing. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonuble irom October to May. SNIPES, to Dress. Ingredients. — Snipes, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—These, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Pluck, and wipe them outside, and trass them with the head under the wing, having previously skinned that and the neck. Twist the legs at the first joint, J press the feefi — t^^^^^^ and pass a skewer ^— and the body. BOAST SNIPE. pjacQ ^ skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for aboub