157 THE DlCTlONAny OF COOKERt. Herbs, to Dry on-pcel. i1/o</e.—Prepare and dry beibs, pick the leaves from the Iks, pound them, and sift them oufih a hair sieve; mix in the above purtiuns, and keep in glnss bottles, •fully excluding the air. This we k a far better method of keeping bs, as the flavour and fragrance do evaporate so much as when they are i-ely put in paper bags. Preparing m in this way, you have them ready use at a moment's notice. Mint, lp, parsley, &:c., dried, pounded, and <h put into separate bottles, wiil be pd very useful in winter. CKB S, to Dry, for Winter Use. in a very dry day, gather the herbs, I before they begin to flower. If this lone when the weather is damp, the lbs will not be so good a colour. (It lery necessary to be particular in little Iters like this, for trillcs constitute lection, and herbs nicely dried will Ire Id very acceptable when frost and wf are on the ground. It is hardly Essary, however, to state that the fla- t and fragrance of fre.>h herbs are in- Iparably fiuer.) They should be per- ly freed fi om dirt and dust, and be lied into small bunches, with their Is cut off. Dry them quickly in a w hot oven, or before the fire, as by I means most of their flavour will bo lervcd, and be carelul not to burn la ; tie them up in paper bags, and l> in a dry place. This is a very ftral way of preserving dried herbs ; mre would recommend the plan de- med in a former recipe. Seasonable, worn the month of July to the end of leipber is the proper time for storing Is for winter use. feniNGS, White, Baked. Mgredieyils.—12 herrings, 4 bay-leaves, Boves, 12 allspice, 2 small blades of m, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, Bient vinegar to fill up tho dish. We.—Take herrings, cutoff tho heads, l^ut them. Put them in a pie-dish, mm and tails alternately, and, between ■ layer, sprinkle over tho above in- ■tonts. Cover the fish with tho vine- ■kind bake for ^ hour, but do not use Wk quite cold. The herrings may be ■own the front, tho backbone taken Hiiid closed again. Sprats done in Hodge-Podge this way are very delicious. Time.—^ an hour. Average cost, Id. each. To Choose the Herring.—The more scales this fish has, the surer the sign of its freshness. It should also have a bright and silvery look ; but if red about the head, it is a sign that ithas been dead for some time. HEBEINGS, Eed.or YARMOUTH BLOATERS. The best way to cook these is to make incisions in the skin across the fish, be- cause they do not then require to be so long on the fire, and will be far better than when cut open. The hard roe makes a nice relish by pounding it in a mortar, with a little anchovy, and spreading it on toast. If very dry, soak in warm water 1 hour before dressing. HIDDEN MOUNTAIN, The (a pretty Supper Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, a few slices of citron, sugar to taste, \ pint of cream, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.—Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs sepa- rately ; then mix them and beat well again, adding a few tbin slices of citron, the cream, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten it nicely. When the mixture is well beaten, put it into a buttered pan, and fry the same as a pancake ; but it should be three times the thickness of an ordinary pancake. Cover it with jam, and garnish with slices of citron and holly-leaves. This dish is served cold. Time.—About 10 minutes to fry the mix- ture. Average cost, with the jam, Is. id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HODGE-PODGE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 quarts of water, 1 pint of table-beer, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste ; thick- ening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put th© meat, beer, and water ina stewpan ; sim- mer for a few minutes, and skim care- fully. Add the vegetables and season- ing ; stew gently till tho meat is tender. Thicken with the butter and flour, and servo with turnips and carrots, or spinach and celery. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 3d. per quart. Seasonalle at any time. Snfficienl lor 12 persons.