3Gfl THE DICTIONARY OP COOKER?. Vol-au-Vcnt, Sweet VOL-AU-VENT, Sweet, of PlumH, Apples, or any other Fresh Fruit. Im/redients.—^ lb. of puff-paste, about 1 pint of fruit compflte. Tl/ot^e.—Make lb. of putt'-pasto, taking caro to bako it in a good brisk oven, to draw it up uicely and mako it look light. Ilavo ready sudicicnt stowed fruit, tho syrup of which must bo boiled down until very thick ; fill tho vol-au-venl with this, and pile it high in tho centre ; powder a little sugar over it, and put it back in the oven to glaze, or use a salamander for tho purpose: the vol-au-vent is then ready to servo. It may bo made wilh any fruit that is in season, such as rhubarb, oranges, gooseberries, currants, cherries, apples, &a. ; but caro must be taken nob to have the syrup too thin, for fear of its breaking through the crust. Time.—h hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-au-vent. Average cost, exclusive of the compOte, Is. Id. Sufficient for 1 en- tremets. WAFERS, Geneva. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. flour, 3 oz. pounded sugar. Mode.—Well whisk the eggs ; put them into a basin, and stir to them the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; add the flour and sifted sugar gradually, and then mix all well together. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it a teaspoonful of the mixture at a time, leaving a space be- tween each. Bake in a cool oven ; watch tho pieces of paste, and, when half done, roll them up like wafers, and put in a small wedge of bread or piece of wood, to keep them in shape. Return them to the oven until crisp. Before serving, remove the bread, put a spoonful of preserve in tho widest end, and fill up with whipped cream. This is a very pretty and ornamental dish for tho supper-table, and is very nice and easily made. Time.—Altogether from 20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the preserve and cream. Id. Sufficient for a nice-sized dish. Seasonable "at any time. WALNUT KETCHUP. Ingredients.—^f}') walnuts, 1 handful of salt, 1 qua.t of vinegar, :J oz. of mace, )l oz. of nutmeg, ^ oz. of cloves, \ oz. of ginger, ^ oz. of whole black pepper, a Walnuts, to have Fresh small piece of horseradiKh, 20 sh ,j lb. of anchovies, 1 pint of port Mode.—Procure tho walnuts at the you can run a pin through t slightly bruise, and put them into with tho salt and vinegar ; let them ; 8 days, stirring every day ; then tho liquor from them, and boil it, tho above ingredients, for about ' It may bo strained or not, as prefc and, if required, a little more vineg wine can bo added, according to 1 When bottled well, seal the corks, i —h hour. Seasonable.—Make this the beginning to tho middle of . when walnuts are in perfection pickling purposes. WALNUT KETCHUP. Ingredients.—.J sieve of walnut-st 2 quarts of wate'r, salt, J lb. of sha 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of mace, 1 o: whole pepper, 1 oz. of garlic. Moo Put the walnut-shells into a pan, the water, and a lar^re quantity of s let them stand for 10 days, then bi the shells up in tho water, and Ic drain through a sieve, putting a h( weight on the top to express the ju place it on the fire, and remove all si that may arise. Now boil the liq with the shalots, cloves, mace, pep; and garlic, and let all simmer till shalots sink ; then put the liquor int pan, and, when cold, bottle, and c closely. It should stand 6 months bel using: should it ferment during t time, it must be again boiled and skiran; Time. — About ^ hour. Seasonable September, when the walnut-shells obtainable. WALNUTS, to have Fre throughout the Season. Ingredients,—To every pint of wa allow 1 teaspoonful of salt. Modi Place the walnuts in the salt and wa for 24 hours at least; then take tb out, and rub them dry. Old nuts li be freshened in this manner; or t nuts, when first picked, may be put i an earthen pan with salt sprinkl amongst them, and with damj^ed placed on the top of them, and covered down with a lid. They i be well wiped before they are put table. Seasonable.—Shov,\d be stor away in September or October.