15 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Arrowroot Blancmange JIEOWBOOT BLANCMANGE (an inexpensive Supper Dish). Ingredients.—i heaped tablespoonfuls ■ arrowroot, 1.^ pint of milk, 3 laurel- aves or the rind of h lemon, sugar to late. jJ/orfe.—Mix to'a smooth batter 18 arrowroot with ^ pint of the milk ; ut the other pint on the fire, with .urel-leaves or lemon-peel, whichever lay be preferred, and let the milk steep Dtil it is well flavoured ; then strain le milk, and add it, boiling, to the lixed arrowroot; sweeten it with sifted igar, and let it boil, stirring it all the me, till it thickens sufficiently to come cm the saucepan. Grease a mould with are salad-oil, pour in the blancmange, ad,when quite set, turn it out on a dish, ad pour round it a compfite of any kind f fi-uit, or garnish it with jam. A iblespoonful of brandy, stirred in just efore the blancmange is moulded, very luch improves the flavour of this sweet ish. Time.—Altogether, i hour. Aver- ge cost, Gd. without the garnishing. ufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seaso7iahle t any time. LEROWHOOT PUDDING, Baked or Boiled. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of arrow- oot, 1.^ pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, the ind of'^ lemon, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls f moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg. fade.—Mix the arrowroot with as much old milk as will make it into a smooth atter, moderately thick ; put the re- aainder of the milk into a stewpan with he lemon-peel, and let it infuse for about hour ; when it boils, strain it gently to ho batter, stirring it all the time to keep t smooth ; then add the butter ; beat his well in until thoroughly mixed, and weeten with moist sugar. Put the mix- ure into a pie-dish, round which has leen placed a border of paste; grate a ittle nutmeg over the top, and bake he pudding from 1 to ],| hour, in a loderate oven, or boil it the same length f time in a well-buttered basin. To nrich this pudding, stir to the other Dgredients, just before it is put in the ven, 3 wcll-whiskcd eggs, and add a ablespoonful of brandy. For a nursery )udding, the addition of the latter ingre- lients will be found quite superfluous, as ,lso the paste round the edge of the dish. rime,—l to 1^ hour, baked or boiled. Artichokes, Boiled Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. ARROWROOT SAUCE, for Pud- dings. Ingredients.—2 small teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 4 dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, ^ pint of water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the water; put this into a stewpan; add the sugar, strained lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they boil, when the sauce is ready for use. A small quantity of wine, or any liqueur, would very much improve the flavour of this sauce : it is usually served with bread, rice, custard, or any dry pudding that is not very rich. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, 4d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. ARROWROOT, to make. Ingredients.—Two teaspoonfuls of ar- rowroot, 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water, ^ pint of boiling water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly in a basin with the cold water, then pour on it the ioil- ing water, stirring all the time. The water must be boiling at the time it is poured on the mixture, or it will not thicken; if mixed with hot water only, it must be put into a clean saucepan, and boiled until it thickens ; but this occa- sions more trouble, and is quite unneces- sary, if the water is boiling at first. Put the arrowroot into a tumbler, sweeten it with lump sugar, and flavour it with grated nutmeg or cinnamon, or a piece of lemon-peel, or, when allowed, 3 table- spoonfuls of port or sherry. As arrowroot is in itself flavourless and insipid, it is almost necessary to add the wine to make it palatable. Arrowroot made with milk instead of water is far nicer, but is not so easily digested. It should bo mixed in the same manner, with 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water, the boiling milk then poured on it, and well stirred. When made in this manner, no wine should be added, but merely sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel. Time.—If obliged to bo boiled, 2 minutes. Average cost, 2d. per pint. Sufficient to make pint of arrowroot. ARTICHOKES, BoUed, Ingredients,—To each ^gallon of water,