xz Philosophy of Housekeeping, 123. By the Style of House, and the class of ]a(3y, one can jurlge of the sen'ant'g character, whether the lady gives a true character or not. High praise is oftea accorded by a mistress who does not know what a good servant is, and applies particularly to cooks, for hero taste and style of serving differ essentially. As a rule, a lady is safe in taking a servant who has lived over two years in family in the same position as her own, neither above nor below it, of whom the mistress distinctly and clearly states that she is honest, sober, clean, and indi trious ; the mistress's appearance being quiet, ladylike, and tidy ; the house well cared for and neat. It is a great advantage to know something of the past histo" of one's servants, and inquiries should bo made respecting the other places hel by the servant. 121. A Mistress is often shy about telling a new servant her ways and wishes- allows herself to be as indulgent at first as she is strict and fault-finding whe~ used to her new maid. Now, if this plan were reversed, and a lady had the courage to be strict and particular when the maid is at her best, and in her most pain- taking humoiu-, a servant would naturally faU into the right way of pleasing b being useful to her mistress. 125. Gentleness, kindness, and firmness are the qualities required in a mistress^ with a thorough practical knowledge of what are her servants' duties. "We ma here remark that those households are best conducted where the mistress neve converses with her servants; never speaks but to gently give an order, ask a question, or say good morning and evening to her maids. Of course, this doe^ not apply in times of sorrow for the servants, or with a general servant, who ' depending on her mistress for all occasions of speaking, or to old, well-trie servants, but it is a safe rule for the Mistress. 126. When two SERVANTSare kept, the mistress has more time at her disposal but should nevertheless take a close and watchful interest in the work of tha house, inspecting the work when finished, and remarking on badly-cleaned roomsj. neglected corners, and seeing that the fault is repaired at the moment. B never passing over a fault during the first twelve months, but kindly and gontl pointing it out, there will be no need for a word of correction afterwards. ■ 127. When Servants first enter a service they naturally try their best to please; and require only teaching the "ways" of the family. They soon see if "mi is " paiiiicular" or no, and whether they are ruled by a careful, clever handJ or by a careless, idle, anyhow mistress, and will act accordingly. 128. What has passed into a proverb respecting the master's eye equally appli to the mistress of a household. Her observant glance ought to take in, an the mind note, every detail of housewifery. She should in herself be an exampl to her maids of neatness, cleanliness, and order. " So particular," should be tho verdict of her handmaidens. A woman who does her duty to her husband an