THE DICTIONARY OF C00KEE7. 272 Pudding, Baroness 3 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded almonds, jam. Mode.—Put the broad ci-umb3 at the bottom of apio-disli, then over them a layer of jam of any kind that may bo preferred ; mix the milk and eggs to- gether; add the sugar, butter, and ' pounded almonds; beat all well to- - gcther ; pour it into the dish, and bake in a moderato oven for 1 hour. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. to Is. Qd, Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any tinj.e. PUDDING-, Baroness (Author's Hecipe). Ingredients.—f lb. of suet, f lb. of raisins weighed after being stoned, f lb. of flour, h pint of milk, \ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Prepare the suet, by care- fully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely ; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these ingredients •with the salt and flour ; moisten the ■whole with the above proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pud- ding in a floured cloth, which has been greviously wrung out in boiling water, ^vt tha pudding into a saucepan of boil- ing water, and let it boil, without ceas- ing, 4.^ hours. Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Time.—4.^ hours. Average cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Note.—This pudding the editress can- not too highlj'' recommend. The recipe was kindly given to her family by a lady who bore the title here prefixed to it; and with all who have partaken of it, it is an especial favourite. Nothing is of greater consequence, in the above direc- tions, than attention to the time of boil- ing, which should never be less than that mentioned. PUDDING, Boyal Coburg. Ingredients,—1 pint of new milk, 6oz. of flour, G oz. of sugar, G oz. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, t) eggs, brandy and grated nutmeg to taste. J/orfe.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk, add the remaining ingredients gradualli/, and when well mixed, put it into four basins or moulds half full ; bako for ^ hour, turn tho puddings out on a dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—^ hour. Arerctr/e cost, 1». 8rf. Pudding, Comarques (Sji^cien^ for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable -. * at any time. )- PUDDING, Cold. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 1 pint of milk,, ? sugar to taste, a little grated lemon- .( rind, 2 oz. of raisins, 4 tablespoonfuld " of marmalade, a few slices of sponge cake. Mode.—Sweeten tho milk with. " lump sugar, add a little grated lemon- • t rind, and stir to this the eggs, which; 1; should be well whisked ; line a buttered I mould with the raisins, stoned and cut in half; spread the slices of cake with the marmalade, and place them in tho ■ mould ; then pour in the custard, tie the pudding down with paper and a i _ cloth, and boil gently for 1 hour: when cold, tura it out, and serve. Time. — ~ 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 2d. Svfficie-nt'. ^ for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, CoUege. ^ Ingredients.—1 pint of bread crumbs, td 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, | lb. of ' jr, currants, a few thin slices of candied . ;i peel, 3 oz. of sugar, ^ nutmeg, 3 eggs, . ^ 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.— .i. Put the bread crumbs into a basin ; add . h, the suet, currants, candied peel, sugar, „ and nutmeg, grated, and stir these in- j gradients until they are thoroughly • mixed. Beat up the eggs, moisten tho » p pudding with these, and put in the > brandy ; beat well for a few minutes, then form the mixture into round balls or egg-shaped pieces; fry these in hot • butter or lard, letting them stew in it . ;■ until thoroughly done, and turn them two or three times, till of a tine light brown; drain them on a piece of blot- ■• ting-paper before the fire; dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—15 to ;i 20 ininut,es. Average cost. Is. Sifficient ' for 7 or 8 puddings'. Seasonable at any ^ time. PUDDING, Comaraues (Excellent), Ingredients.—5 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls t of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered ^ sugar, rind of 1 lonion, h pint of cream, dillerent kinds of preserve. Mode— Boat tho whites and yolks of the cgga separately, and put thorn into different basins ; stir the flour, sugar, and lemon- ^ peel into the yolks ; whip tho cream very l^>ck and put it on n sieve to ^ harden 'fthen add it, with tho whites of ,,