390 Philosophy of Housekeeping. pour it ovor tho meat. The skewers should be removed, and replaced by a silver cue, and the dish garnished with slices of cut lemon. OTJKRIED RABBIT. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock, 1 table- spoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of mushroom powder, tho juice of h lemon, ^ lb. of rice. Mode.—Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onions, and let them acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow them to blacken. Pour in the stock which should be boiling ; mix the curry-powder and fiour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom powder, and simmer gently for rather more than h hour ; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, water may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. MINCED VEAL, with Bechamel Sauce. INGREDIENTS.—^The remains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, h teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Cut—but do not cJiop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufiicient to make rather more than 1 lb. weight after being minced. ]\Iake the above proportion of bechamel; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the whole gradually warm through. When it is at the point of simmering, dish it, and garnish with forcemeat balls and fried sippets of bread. BEEP RISSOLES. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allow f lb. of bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herb?, n a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, according to the quantity of meat. Mode.—Mince the beef voiy fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread-ci-umbs, herbs, seasoning, and lemon-peel, in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs ; divide into balls or cones, and fry a rich brown. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send with them to tablo some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of gar- nishing with fried parsley, gravy may be poured in the dish, round the nssolos: in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tureen. MUTTON CHOPS, with Mashed Potatoes. Ingredients.—Chops, loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, brown gravy, potatoes, or tomato sauce.