THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Caper Sauce, for Pish them boforo the fire, dish on a d'oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and serve. Those cannelous are very delicious made with fresh instead of preserved fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, or currants: it should be laid in the paste, plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over, and folded and fried in the same manner as stated above. Time.—About 10 minutes. Averar/e cost, Is. Sufficient. —\ lb. of paste for a moderate-sized dish of cannelons. Seasonable, with jam, at any time, CAPER SAUCE, for Fish, Ingredients.—h pint of melted butter, 3 dessertspoonfuls of capers, 1 dessert- spoonful of their liquor, a small piece of glaze, if at hand (this may be dispensed with), I teaspoonful of salt, ditto of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of anchovy es- sence. Mode.—Cut the capers across once or twice, but do not chop them fine ; putthemin a saucepan with ^ pint of good melted butter, and add all the other in- gredients. Keep stirring the whole until it just simmers, when it is ready to sei-ve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, 5d. Suffi- cient to serve with a skate, or 2 or 3 slices of salmon, CAPER SAUCE, for Boiled Mut- ton. Ingredients.—| pint of melted butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of capers or nasturtiums, 1 tablespoonful of then- liquor. Mode.— Chop the capers twice or thrice, and add them, with their liquor, to h pint of melted butter, made very smoothly with milk; keep stirring well ; let the sauce just simmer, and serve in a tureen. Pickled nasturtium-pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are eaten in preference to capers. They make an excellent sauco. 2'lme.—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, 8d. Sufficient to Borvo with a leg of mutton, CAPER SAUCE, a Substitute for. Inqredients.—h pint of melted butter, tJiblespoonfuls of cut parsley, h tea- spoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of ymo- c-ar. Mode.—BoW the jiarsley slowly to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine. Add it to h pint of Bmoothly ma<lo melted butter, with salt and vinegar in the above proportions. Carp, Stewed Boil up and servo. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, CAPSICUMS, Pickled. Ingredients.—Vinegar,,] oz. of pounded mace, and ^ oz. of grated nutmeg, to each quart; brine. Mode.—Gather the pods with the stalks on, before they turn red; slit them down the side with a small-pointed knife, and remove the seeds only ; put them in a strong brine for 3 days, changing it every morning; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, with another one over them, until they are perfectly free from moisture. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with mace and nutmeg in the above propor- tions; put the pods in a jar, pour over the vinegar when cold, and exclude them from the air by means of a wet bladder tied over, CARP, Baked, Ingredients.—1 caip, forcemeat, bread cnimbs, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint of stfiik (see Stock), | pint of port wine, 6 anchovies, 2 onions" sliced, 1 bay-leaf, a faggot of sweet herbs, flour to thicken, the juico of 1 lemon ; cayenne and salt to taste ; h teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode. —Stuff the carp with a delicate force- meat, after thoroughly cleansing it, and sew it up, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. Rub it over with an ege, and sprinkle it with bread crumbs, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and drop the butter, oiled, over the bread crumbs. Add the stock, onions, bay-leaf, herbs, wine, and anchovies, and bake for 1 hour. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, molt it, and dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; put in the strained liquor from the carp, stir frequently, and when it has boiled, add the lemon-juice .and season- ing. Serve the carp on a dish garnished with parsloj'and cut lemon, and the sauca in a boat. Time.—\\ hour. Arcragt cost. Seldom bought. Scasonallc from March to October, Sufficient for 1 or 7 persons, CARP, Stowed. Ingredients. — 1 oarp, salt, stock, 2 onions, 6 cloves, VI i)ep);orcorns, 1 blade of mace, j pint of port wine, the juice of A lemon, cayenne and salt to taste, a fixggot of savoury lici bs. -Scale