TfiE DiCTIONARY OF C00ltEB,t. 255 Plum Cake, Common licely frothed. Dish them on the toasts, iver which tbe traill should be eqxially ;pread. Pour round the toast a little ;ood gravy, and send some to table in a iureen. Time.—\Q minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 6rf. the brace, if plen- ,iful. Sufficient for 2 persons. Season- lUe.—ln perfection from the beginning )f September to the end of January. PLUM CAKE, Common. Ingredienis.—d lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter or good dripping, 6 oz. of moist jugar, 6 oz. of currants, ^ oz. of pounded illspice, 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast, . pint of new milk. Mode.—Rub the )utter into the flour; add the sugar, iurrants, and allspice; warm tho milk, tir to it the yeast, and mix the whole nto a dough ; knead it well, and put it nto 6 buttered tins ; place them near the ire for nearly an hour for the dough to ise, then bake the cakes in a good oven rom 1 to 1:| hour. To ascertain when hey are done, plunge a clean knife into he middle, and if on withdrawal it comes ut clean, the cakes are done. Time.— to 1;^ hour. Average cost, Is. %d. 'xifficient to make 6 small cakes. >LUM CAKE, a Nice. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, \ lb, of utter, ^ lb. of sugar, \ lb. of currants, oz. of candied lemon-peel, ^ pint of lilk, 1 teaspoonful of ammoma or car- onate of soda. Mode.—Put the flour ito a basin with the sugar, currants, id sliced candied peel; beat the butter ) a cream, and mix all these ingredients )gether with the milk. Stir the am- onia into 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; add to tho dough, and beat the whole well, itil everything is thoroughly mixed. Lit the dough into a buttered tin, and xke the cake from li to 2 hours. Time. ; to 2 hours. Average cost, If. Zd. ',asonable at any time. LTJM JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of plums, signed before being stoned, allow ^ lb. loaf sugar. Mode.—In making plum m, the quantity of sugar for each lb. fruit must bo regulated by the quality id size of tho fruit, some plums rcquir- g much more sugar than others. Divide 0 plums, take out tho stones, and put cm on to largo dishes, with roughly- 'unded sugar sprinkled over them in Plum Pudding, Excellent the above proportion, and lot them re- main for one day ; then put them into a preserving-pan, stand them by the sido of the fire to simmer gently for about .J hour, and then boil them rapidly for another 15 minutes. The scum must be carefully removed as it rises, and thL jam must be well stirred all the time, or it will bum at the bottom of tno pan, and so spoil the colour and flavour of tho presei-ve. Some of the stones may be cracked, and a few kernels added to the jam just before it is done : these impart a very delicious flavour to the plums. The above proportion of sugar would answer for Orleans plums; the Imp€ra- trice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour would not require quite so much. Time, h hour to simmer gently, ^ hour to boil rapidly. Best plums for preserving.— Violets, Mussels, Orleans, Imp€ratrice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour. Seaso7i- aUe from the end of July to the begin- ning of October, PLUM PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a few slices of candied peel. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix it with the flour, currants, stoned raisins, and candied pool; moisten with the well-beaten eggs, and add sufii- cient milk to make the pudding of tho consistency of very thick batter. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a good oven from 2\ to 2^ hours ; tm-n it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. For a very plain pudding, use only half the quantity of fruit, omit the eggs, and sixb- stitute milk or water for them. The above ingi-edients make a large family pudding ; for a small one, half the quan- tity will Ije found ample ; but it must be baked quite 1^ hour. Time.—Large pudding, 2^ to '2h hours; half tho size, Ih hour. Average cost, 2s. M. Sufji- cunt for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in ■winter. PLUM PUDDmG.Excellent.mad© ■without Eggs. Ingredients.—h lb. of flour, 6 oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, lb. of chopped suet, ,+ lb. of brown sugar, | lb. of mashea carrot, ;J lb. of mashed potatoes, 1 tahlespoonful of treacle, 1 oz. of can- died lemon-peel, 1 oz. of candied citron. Mode,—Mix tho flour, currants, suet and