400 r Philosopliy of Housekeeping. this swoot dish; as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former molts, and the mixture runs on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-shape. The sweeter the meringues are made, tho crisper they will be; but if there is noc sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be tough. 'J'hey are sometimes coloured with cochineal ; and, if kept well covered in a dry place, will remain good for a month. BOILED CUSTARDS. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf-sugar, 3 laurel-leaves, or the rind of A lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and whichever of the above flavourings may be preferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most deliciously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is well flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin ; whisk the eggs well, and, when the mUk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire; keep stirring the custard one way until it thickens ; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling-point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off" the lire, stir in the brandy, and, when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-parts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the dish is ready for table. To make custards look and eat better, ducks' eggs should be used, when obtainable; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and so many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks' eggs to the pint of milk making a delicious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should be substituted for the milk, and double the quantity of eggs used, to those mentioned, omitting the whites. KICE CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk, 6oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring ■of vanilla, lemon-peel, or bitter almonds, egg and bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Vvit the rice, milk, and sugar into a saucepan, and let the former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the milk is dried up ; and just before the rice is done, stir in a few drops of essence of any of the above flavourings. Let the rice get cold ; then form it into small round balls, dip them into yolk of egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard for about 10 minutes, turning them about, that they may get equally browned. Drain the greasy moisture from them, by placing them on a cloth in front of the fire for a minute or two ; pile them on a white d'oyley, and send tliem quickly to table. A small piece of jam is sometimes introduced into the middle of each croquette, which adds very much to the flavour of this favourite dish.