THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERT. 70 Chicken, Curried drcssincr in some other manner. Put the fowl into a saucepan, stew all the ingre- dients, and simmer gently for H hour, carel'ully skimming the broth well. "When done, strain, and put bj in a cool place until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, warm up as much as may bo required, and serve. This broth is, of course, only for those invalids whose stomachs are strong enough to digest it, with a flavouring of herbs, &c. It may be made iu the same manner as beef tea, with water and salt only, but the pre|ia- ration will be but tasteless and insipid. When the invalid cannot digest this chicken broth with the flavouring, we •would recommend plain beef tea in pre- ference to plain chicken tea, which it would be without the addition of herbs, onions, &c. Time.—\h hour. Sufficient to make rather more than 1 pint of brotii. CHICKEN, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowls, 2 large onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spooniul of curry-powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, h pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Slice the onions, peel, core, and chop the apple, and cut the fowl into neat joints ; Iry these in the butter of a nice brown, then add tho curry-povvdcr, flour, and gravy, and stew for about 20 miuutes. Put in the lemon- juice, and serve with boiled rice, either placed in a ridge round the disl) or sepa- rately. Two or three shalots or a little garlic may be added, if ai)proved. Time. —Altogether, ^ hour. Averar/e cost, ex- clusive of the cold fowl, 6d, iieasoiiahle in the winter. CHICKEN CUTLETS (an Entree). Jnrjredienls.—2 chickens ; seasoning to taste of salt, white pepper, and cayenne ; 2 blades of pounded mace, egg and bread crumbs, clarified butter, 1 strip of lemon- rind, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, thickeningof but- ter and flour, 1 egg. J/orfc—Remove thobrea.st and log-bones of tho chickens; cut tho meat intoneat piecesaftorhaving skinned it, and season tho cutlets with {lepper, salt, pounded mace, and cayenne, 'ut the bones, trimmings, &c., into a Btcwi)an with 1 pint of water, adding carrots, onions, and lemon-peel in tho abovo proportion ; stew gently for ] h Lour, and strain tho gravy. Thicken it Chicken, Fricasseed with butter and flour, add tho ketchrjp and 1 egg well beaten; stir it over the fire, and bring it to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil. In the mean time, egg and bread crumb the cutlets, and give them a few drops of clarified butter ; fry them a delicate brown, oc- casionally turning them; arrange them pyramidically on the dish, and pour over them the sauce. Time.—10 minutes to fry the cutlets. Averarje cost, 2s. each. Sufficient for an entree." Seasonable from April to July. CHICKEN CUTLETS, French. [Cold Meat Cookeht.] Inrjredients. —The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, fried bread, clarified butter, the yolk of 1 egg, broad crumbs, h teaspoon- ful of finely-minced lemon-peel; salt, ca- yenne, and mace to taste. For sauce,— 1 oz. of butter, 2 minced shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 blade of pounded mace, (J peppercorns, h pint ol gravy. Mode.—Cut the fowls" into as many nice cutlets as possible; take a corresponding number of sippets about the same size, all cut one shape; fry thom a pale brown, put them before the fire, then dip the cutlets into clarified butter mi.Ked with tho yolk of an egg, cover with bread crumbs seasoned in the above proportion, with lemon-peel, mace, salt, and cayenne; fry them for about 5 minutes, put each piece on one of the sipj)ets, pile them high in tho dish, and serve with the following sauce, which should bo made ready for the cutlets. Put tho butter into a stewpan, add the shalots, carrot, herbs, mace, and pepper- corns ; fry for 10 minutes, or rather longer; pour in h pint of good grav^', made of tho chicken-bones ; stew gently for 20 minutes, strain it, and serve. Time. —5 minutes to fry the cutlets; 35 minutes to make the gravy. Avanrje cost, exclu- sive of tho chicken, ^d. Seasonable fi ora April to July. CHICKEN, Fricasseed (an Entree). Ivfjrcdients.—2 small fowls or 1 large one, 3 oz. of butter, a bunch of pnrslcy and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, ,•} pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Choose acoupio of fat plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing, and washing them, skin, and