TEE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 42 Beef-Tea, Savoury BEEF-TEA, Savoiiry (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of solid beef, 1 oz. of butter, 1 clove, 2 button onions or ^ a large one, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 quart of water. Mode.—Cut the beef into very email dice; put it into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion, and salt; stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes until it produces a thin gravy, then add the water, and let it simmer gently from ^ to ^ of an hour, skimming off every particle of fat. When done, strain it through a sieve, and put it by in a cool place until required. The same, if wanted quite plain, is done by merely omitting the vegetables, salt, and clove ; the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. Time.—^ to f hour. Average cost, 8d. per pint. Suf- ficient.—Allow 1 lb. of beef to make 1 pint of good beef-tea. Note.—The meat left firom beef-tea may beboiledaUttle longer, and pounded with spices, &c., for potting. It makes a very nice breakfast dish. BEETROOT, Boiled. Ingredients,—Beetroot; boiling water. Mode.—When large, young, and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be converted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. {See Beetboot, Pickled.) Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot: when the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted onions. Wash the beets thoroughly ; but do not prick or break the skin before they are cooked, as they would lose their beautiful colour in boil- ing. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, remove tho peel quickly, cut the beetroot into thick slices, and send to table molted butter. For salads, pickle, &c., lot the root cool, then peel, and cut it into slices. Tmc—Small beetroot, 1^ to 2 hours ; larffe to 3 hours. Average cost, in full season, 2d. each. Seaso7iable.—isla.j be had at any time. BEETROOT, Pickled. 7w(7)-eciien<3.—Sufficient vinegar to cover the beets, 2 oz, of whole pepper, 2 oz. of Biscuits, Dessert allspice to each gallon of vinegar. Mode. —Wash the beets free from dirt, and bo very careful not to prick the outside skin, or they would lose their beautiful colour. Put them into boiling water, let them simmer gently, and when about three parts done, which will be in 1.^ hour, take them out and let them cool. Boil the vinegar with pepper and allspice, in the above proportion, for 10 minutes, and when cold, pour it on the beets, which must be peeled and cut into slices about k inch thick. Cover with bladder to exclude the air, and in a week they will be fit for use. BISCUITS, Crisp. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, tho yolk of 1 egg, milk. 3Iode.—Mix the flour and the yolk of the egg with sufficient milk to make the whole into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead it until it is per- fectly smooth. Roll tho paste out ver)f thin ; with a round cutter shape it into small biscuits, and bake them a nice brown in a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average cost, id. Seasonable at any tima BISCHTTS, Dessert, which may be flavoured with Ground Ginger, Cinnamon, &c. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, h lb. of but- ter, Alb. of sifted sugar, theyol]^sof6 eggs, flavo'uring to taste. Mode.—Put the butter into a basin ; warm it, but do not allow it to oil; then with tho hand beat it to a cream. Add the flour by degrees, then the sugar and flavouring, and moisten tho whole with the yolks of the eggs, which should previously be well beaten. When all the ingredients .-ire thoroughly incorporated, drop the mix- tui'o from a spoon on to a buttered paper, leaving a distance between each cake, for they spread as soon as they begin to get warm. Bake in rather a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes, and do not let the biscuits acquire too much colour. In making the above quantity, half may be flavoured with ground ginger and the other half with essence of lemon or cur- rants, to m.ako a variety. With whatever tho preparation is flavoured, so are the biscuits called, and an endless variety may bo made in this manner. T.mc.^ 12 to 18 minutes, or rather longer, ui a very slow oven. Average cost, 1». oi**