THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2V1 Ptarmigan, to Dress As they are as tame as chickens, this is done without diflaculty. Buffon says that the ptarmigan avoids the solar heat, and prefers the frosts of the summits of the mountains; for, as the snow melts on the sides of the mountains, it ascends till it gains the top, where it makes a hole, and burrows in the snow. In winter, it flies in flocks, and feeds on the wild vegetation of the hills, which imparts to its flesh a bitter, but not altogether an unpalatable taste. It is dark - coloured, has something of the flavour of the hai-e, and is greatly relished and much sought after by some sports- men. PTABMIGAN, to Dress the. Ingredients.—2 or 3 birds; butter, flour, fried bread crumbs. Mode.—The ptarmigan, or white grotise, when young and tender, are exceedingly fine eating, and should be kept as long as possible, to be good. Pluck, draw, and truss them in the same manner as grouse, and roast them before a bi-isk fire. Flour and froth them nicely, and serve on buttered toast, with a tureen of brown gravy. Bread sauce, when liked, may be sent to table with them, and fried bread crumbs substituted for the toasted bread. Time.—About h hour. Sufficient, —2 for a dish. Seasonable from the be- ginning of February to the end of April. PTAHMIGAN", to Carve. Ptarmigan, being much of the same size, and trussed in the same manner, as the red bird, may be cai'ved in the manner described, in Partridge and Grouse carving. PUDDING, Alma. Ingredients.—^ lb. of fresh butter, lb. of powdered sugar, \ lb. of flour, lb. of currants, 4 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a thick cream, strew in, by degrees, the sugar, and mix both these well together; then dredge the flour in gradually, add the currants, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well beaten. "When all the ingredients are well stirred and mixed, butter a mould that will hold the mixture exactly, tie it down with a cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for 6 hours; when turned out, strew some powdered sugar over it, and gerve. Time,—6 hours, Pudding, Bakewell Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient^ for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDIITG, Aunt Welly's. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of treacle, ^ lb. of suet, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, a few strips of candied lemon- peel, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 eggs. Jl/ocfe.—Chop the suet finely ; mix it withtheflour, treacle, lemon-peel minced, and candied lemon-peel; add the cream, lemon-juice, and 2 well-beaten eggs; beat the pudding well, put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil from 3^ to 4 hours. Time.—^ to 4 hours. 'Average cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at_ any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding, PUDDING, a Bachelor's. Ingredients.—4 oz. of grated bread, 4 oz. of currants, 4 oz. of apples, 2 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. Mode. —Pare, core, and mince the apples very finely, sufi&cient, when minced, to make 4 oz. ; add to these the cm-rants, which should be well washed, the grated bread, and sugar; whisk the eggs, beat these up with the remaining ingredients, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, ^d. Suf- ficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fi'om August to March. PUDDING, Bakewell (very Bich). Ingredients.—\ lb. of puflf-paste, 5 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, \ lb. of butter, 1 oz. of almonds, jam. Mode.—Cover a dish with thin paste, and put over this a layer of any kind of jam, ^ inch thick ; put the yolks of 5 eggs into a basin with the white of 1, and beat these well; add the sifted sugar, the butter, which should bo melted, and the almonds, which should bo well pounded ; beat all together until well mixed, then pour it into the dish over the jam, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Time.—Ihour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, BakeweU. Ingredients.—| pint of bread crumb.'?, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar,