THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 234 Parsley and Butter and butter, or dripping; season and Bimmor for U hour. It can he made Boonor by blanching and mashing the greens, adding any good liquor that a joint has been boiled in, and then furi-lier thicken with bread or pounded biscuit. Time.—l.^, hour. Avercuje cost, l!,d. per quart. Seasonahle all the year, but more suitable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. PAESLEY AND PUTTEE, to Berve with. Calf s Head, Boiled Fowls, &c. Ingredients. — 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, \ pint of melted butter. Mode.—Put into a saucepan a small quantity of water, slightly salted, and when it boils, throw in a good bunch of parsley which has been previously washed and tied together in a bunch ; let it boil for 5 minutes, drain it, mince the leaves very fine, and put the above quantity in a tureen; pour over it \ pint of smoothly-made melted butter; stir once, that the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed, and serve. Time.— 5 minutes to boil the parsley. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 1 large fowl; allow rather more for a pair. Seasonahle at any time. PAHSLEY, Pried, for Garnisliing. Ingredients.—Parsley, hot lard or clari- fied dripping. Mode. — Gather some young parsley; wash, pick, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; put it into the wire basket of which we have given an engraving, and hold it in boiling lard or dripping for a minute or two. Directly it is done, lift out the basket, and let it Btand before the fire, that the parsley xnay become thoroughly crisp ; and the quicker it is fried the better. Should the kitchen not bo furnished with the < Willi! IIASKET, ibove arliclo, throw the parsley into the frj-ing-pan, and when crisp, lift it out I7ith a slice, dry it before the (ire, and frhcn thoroughly cilsp it will be ready Parsnip Soup Wire Basickt.—For this recipe a wire basket, as shown in the annexed eiigiav- ing, will be found very useful. It is very liRlit and handy, and may be used for otiier similar purposes besides that just described. PARSLEY JUICE, for Colouring various Dishes. Procure some nice young par.sley; wash it and dry it thoroughly in a cloth; pound the leaves in a moi-tar till all the juice is extracti;d, and put the juice in a teacup or small jar; place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and warm it on the hain-marie principle just long enough to take off its rawness ; let it drain, and it wiU be ready for colouring. Substitute for. — Sometimes in the middle of winter parsley-leaves are not to be had, when the following will bo found an excellent substitute :—Tie up a little parsley-seed in a small piece of muslin, and boil it for 10 minutes in a small quantity of water ; use this water to make the melted butter with, and throw into it a little boiled spinach, minced rather fine, which will have an appearance similar to that of parsley. PARSLEY, to Preserve through the Winter. Use freshly-gathered parsley for keep- ing, and wash it perfectly free from grit and dirt; put it into boiling water which has been slightly salted and well skimmed, and then let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes; take it out, let it drain, and lay it on a sieve in front of the fire, when it should be dried as expeditiously - as poss bie. Store it away in a very tlry place in bottles, and when wanted for use pour over it a little warm water, and let it stand for about 6 minutes. Seasonahle. —This may be done at any time between Juno and October. PARSNIP SOUP. Ingredients.—1 lb. of sliced parsnijis, 2 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 quai't of stock. Mode.—Put th3 pars- nips into the stcwpan with the butler, which has been previously melted, auj siinmcr them till quite tender. Then add nearly a pint of stock, and boil togo- ther for half an hour. Pass all thrt>ugh a fine strainer, and put to it the reinaiu- dt^r ot the stock. Season, boil. Aud serve