TEE DICTIONARY Off COOKERY. 57 Cake, a Pavini jr tliem ; made in this manner, the ike will be foimd very good. Time.— ;ather more than 1^ hour. Average cost, 9d. !AKE, a Pavini. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of round rice, ^ lb. of raisins stoned and it into small pieces, ^ lb. of currants, lb. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, lb. of sifted loaf sugar, ^ nutmeg rated, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of vrbonate of soda. Mode.—Stone and it the raisins into small pieces; wash, ok, and dry the oiu-rants ; melt the itter to a cream, but without oiling it; lanch and chop the almonds, and grate e nutmeg. When all these ingredients "0 thus prepared, mix them well toge- ier; make the milk warm, stir in the )ila, and with this liquid make the hole into a paste. Butter a mould, Uher more than half fill it with the I )ugh, and bake the cake in a moderate n from 1.^ to 2 hours, or less time aid it be made into 2 cakes. Time.— .J to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 8d. tasonable at any time. AKE, a nice Plain. Tngredients.—1 lb. of flour, 1 teaspoon- il of Berwick's baking-powder, ^ lb. of jod dripping, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. F caraway seeds, J lb. of currants. Mode. i;t the flour and the baking-powder 1 CO a basin ; stir these together; then lb in the dripping, add the sugar, cara- ay seeds, and currants ; whisk the eggs ith the milk, and beat all together very oroughly until the ingredients are .1 mixed. Butter a tin, put in the u<o, and bake it from 1^ to 2 hours, ct the dripping be quite clean before iing: to insure this, it is a good plan i|i> clarify it. Beef di-ipping is better ' an any other for cakes, &c., as mutton ipping frequently has a very unpleasant 1 mvour, which would be imparted to the ■eparation. Time.—lh to 2 hours. verage cost, Is. Seasonable at any time, ,«AKE, a nice Plain, for Children. tingredienls.—1 quartern of dough,;} lb. ^ moist sugar, ^ lb. of butter or good ■f dripping, \ pint of warm milk, h ttcd nutmeg or ^ oz. of caraway seeds' 'ode.--It you are not in the habit of Cake, Saucer, for Tea making bread at home, prociu-e the dough from the baker's, and as soon as it comes in put it into a basin near the fire ; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and let the dough remain a little while to rise. In the mean time, boat the butter to a cream, a'jd mako the milk warm; and when tho dough has risen, mix with it thoroughly all the abovo ingredients, and knead the cake well for a few minutes. Butter some cake-tins, half fill them, and stand them in a warm place, to allow the dough to rise again. When the tins are three parts full, put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from If to 2 hours. A few currants might be substituted for the caraway seeds when the flavour of the latter ia disUked. Time.—1^ to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 2d, Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Queen. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, ^ lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carljonate of soda, essence of lemon, or almonds to taste. Mode.—Work the butter to a cream ; dredge in the flour, add the sugar and currants, and mix the ingre- dients well together. Whisk the eggs, mix them with the cream and flavoui-ing, and stir these to the flour ; add the car- bonate of soda, beat the paste well for 10 minutes, put it into small buttered pans, and bake the cake from ^ to h hour. Grated lemon-rind may be substituted for the lemon and almond flavouring, which will make the cakes equally nice. Time.—\ to h hour. Average cost, Is. M. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Saucer, for Tea. Ingredients.—i lb. of flour, 1 lb. of lous-les-mois, \ lb. of pounded white sugar, \ lb. of butter, 2 eggs, 1 oz. of can- died orange or lemon-peel. Mode.—Mix the flour and ioiis-les-mois together ; add the sugar, tho candied peel cut into thin slices, the butter beaten to a cream, and the eggs well whisked. Beat the mixture for 10 minutes, put it into a buttered cake-tin or mould, or, if this is not ob- tainable, a soup-plato answers the pur- pose, lined with a piece of buttered paper. Bake tho cake in a moderate o\ck from 1 to 1;[ hour, and when cold, put it away in a covered canister. It will remain good some weeks, evon if it be