THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 293 Bolls, Fluted the slices, press the rolls together, and put them in the ovoa for a minute or two, but not longer, or the butter would oil; take them out of the oven, spread the butter equally over, divide the rolls in half, and put them on to a very hot clean dish, and send them instantly to table. BOLLS, Fluted. Ingredients.—PulF-pastei, the white of an egg, sifted sugar, jelly or preserve. Mode.—Make some good pufiF-paste (trimmings answer very well for little dishes of this sort); roll it out to the thickness of^ inch, and with a round fluted paste-cutter stamp out as many round pieces as may be required; brush over the upper side with the white of an egg; roll up the pieces, pressing the paste lightly together where it joins ; place the rolls on a baking-sheet, and bake for about ^ hour. A few minutes before they are done, brush them over with the white of an egg; strew over sifted sugar, put them back in the oven; and when the icing is firm and of a pale brown colour, they are done. Place a strip of jelly or preserve across each roll, dish them high on a napkin, and sei-ve cold. Time.—| hour before being iced; 5 to 10 minutes after. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient.—^ lb. of puif-paste for 2 dishes. Seasonable at any time. EOUX, Brown, a French Thick- ening for Gravies and Sauces. Ingredients.—6 oz. of butter, 9 oz. of flour. Mode.—Melt the butter in a stew- pan over a slow fire, and dredge in, very gradually, the flour ; stir it till of alight- brown colour—to obtain this do it very slowly, otherwise the flour will burn and impart a bitter taste to the sauce it is mixed with. Pour it in a jar, and keep it for use : it will remain good sometime. Time.—About ^ hour. Average cost, 7d. BOITX, White, for thickening White Sauces. Allow the same proportions of butter and flour as in the preceding recipe, and proceed in the same manner as for brown roux, but do not keep it on the fire too long, and take care not to let it colour. This is used for thickening white sauce. Pour it into a jar to use when wanted. Time,—ihour. Average cost,!d. Bump-steak and Kidney Pudding Sufficient.—A dessertspoonful wiU thicken a pint of gravy. Note.—Besides the above, sauces may- be thickened with potato flour, ground rice, baked flour, arrowroot, &c.: the latter will bo found far preferable to the ordinary flour for white sauces. A slice of bread, toasted and added to gravies, answers the two ptirposes of thickening and colouring them. BUMP-STEAK, Fried. Ingredients.—Steaks, butter or clarified dripping.—Mode.—Although broiling is a far superior method of cooking steaks to frying them, yet, when the cook is not very expert, the latter mode may be adopted; and, when properly done, the dish may really look very inviting, and the flavour be good. The steaks should be cut rather thinner than for broiling, and with a small quantity of fat to each. Put some butter or clarified dripping into a frying-pan ; let it get quite hot, then lay in the steaks. Turn them fi-e- quently until done, which will be in about 8 minutes, or rather more, should the steaks be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, in which put a small piece of butter and a tablespoonf ul of ketchup, and season with pepper and salt. They should be se^t to table quickly, as when cold the steaks are entirely spoiled. Time.—8 minutes for a medium-sized steak, rather longer for a very thick one. Average cost, Is. per lb. Seasonable all the year, but not good in summer, as the meat cannot hang to get tendei-. Note.—Where much gi'a^'y is liked, make it in the following manner:—As soon as the steaks are done, dish them, pour a little boiUng water into the frying- pan, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small piece of butter, and a tablespoon- ful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ket- chup. Hold the pan over the fire for a minute or two, just let the gravy simmei', then pour on the steak, and serve. BUMP-STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of ramp-steak, 2 kidneys, seasoning to taste of salt and black pepper, suet crust made with milk {see Pastry), in the proportion of 6 oz. of suet to each 1 lb. of flour. J/ocZe.—Pro- cure some tender nimp-steak (that which has been hung a little time), and divide it into pieces about an inch square, and