THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 144 Gooseberry Tart (voal gravy may bo bubsUluled for tliis), 2 oz. of Irosh Imtter ; seasoning to tasto of salt, ijoppcr, and grated nutmeg. JiJode.—Boil the goosolicrriea in water until Ignite tcnticr; strain them, and nib them thi-oii^zh a sieve. Put, into a sauce- pan the L(5chamel or gravy, with the niittcr and seasoning ; add the pulp from the gooseberi ics, mix all well together, and heat gradually through. A little pounded sugar added to this sauce is by many persons considered an improve- ment, as the saccharine matter takes off the extreme acidity of the unripe fruit. Time.—Boil the gooseberries from 20 minutes to A hour. Svfficient. — Tliis quantity, for' a largo disli of mackerel. Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY TART. Ingredients.—]A pint of gooseberries, ilb. of short crust, ^ lb. of moist sugar. ^ode.—With a pair of scissors cut off the t'ps and tails of the gooselierries ; put them into a d(ep pie-dish, i)ile the fruit high in the cenire, and put in ihe Eu^ar ; line the edge of the dish with shiirt crust, put on the cover, and orna- ment the edges of the tart; bake in a good oven for about ^ hour, and beft^ro being sent to table, strew over it some fine-sified sui;ar. A jug of cream, or a dish of boiled or baked custards, should always accomj-any this dish. Time.— I hour. Averu(/e cost, 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. Ingredients.—1 quart of gooseberries, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard, a plate- ful of whipi:)cd cream. Mode.—Put the goQscberries into a jar, with sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them, ami boil them until reduced to a pidp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a tridc-dish ; pour over it a pint of custard made by recipe, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. The cream should bo whipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it will then be bo much firmer and more solid ; but it should not be added to the fruit until a short time before it is re- quired. The dish may bo garnished as fancy dictates. 2V)iic.—About % hour to boil the gooseberries. Average cost, Is. (jd. Sutjicicnt for 1 trlQo. Seasonable In May, Julio, and July. Gooseberry Wine it- j;( i 'M lb & nii siiit i« 7R GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. (Am Excellent Recipe.) Ingredients.—2 pecks of crystal goose-- berries, G gallons of water, 12 lbs. off foots sugar of the coarsest brown quality. Mode.—Mash the gooseberries (whichi should be quite ripe) in a tub with at mallet; put to them the water uearlyf milk-warm ; let this stand24 hours; theoi strain it through a sieve, and put tbo» sugar to it; mix it well, and tun it,. These jjroportionsare for aO-j^allon cask;; and if it be not quite full, more water mu8tt|^s be addefl. Let the mixture be stirredl from the bottom of the cask two or three* times daily for three or four days, too assist the melting of the sugar; thenxtift paste a piece of linen cloth over thM ai bunghole, and set the cask iu a warmt place, hut not in the sun ; any comer of' a warm kitehcn is the best situation for it. The iollowing spring it should be drawn oiT into stone buttles, and tho vinegar will be tit for use twelve months alter it is made. This will be found a most excellent preparation, greatly su- perior to much that is sold under tho name of the best white wine vinegar. Many years' experience has proved liiat pickle made with this vinegar will keep, when bought vinegar will not i reserve - the ingredients. The cost per gallon is - merely nominal, esijcciady to those who reside in the country and grow their own gooseberries ; the coarse sugar is then tiie ouly ingi edieut to be purchased. Time.—To remain in the cask t) months. Average cost, when the gooseberries hava to be purchased, Is. per gallon; when they are grown at home, iid. per gallon. Seasonable.—This should bo made the* end of June or the beginning of July, . when gooseberries are ripo and plea- tiful. GOOSEBERRY WINE, Efferres- cing. Ingredients.—To every gallon of water i allow 6 lbs. of green gooseberries, 3 lbs. of lump sugar, ^l/orfc. —This wine should be prepared from unripe gooseberries, in order to avoid the flavour which tho fruit would gi%'o to the wine when iu a mature state. Its briskness depends more upon the time of bottling than upon the un- rijio state of tho fruit, for effervescing wine can bo mado from fruit that is rif>e ns well as that which is unriiie. The fruit kilioiUd be selected wli«n it has nearly ■