THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY 5G Cake, Economical Mode.—Eub tho butter lightly into the flour; add all the dry ingredients, and mix these well together. Make the milk warm, but not hot; stir in the yeast, and ■with this liquid mix the whole into a light dough ; knead it well, and line the cake-tins with strips of buttered paper: this paper should be about 6 inches higher than tho top of the tin. Put in the dough ; stand it in a warm place to rise for more than an hour, then bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. If this quantity be divided into two, they will take from 1^ to 2 hours' baking, Time. —1| to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 9cl. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. CAKE, Economical. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of butter or lard, | lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the whites of 4 eggs, ^ pint of milk. Mode.—In making many sweet dishes, the whites of eggs are not required, and if well beaten and added to the above ingredients, make an excellent cake with or without currants. Beat the butter to a cream, weU whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir all the ingredients together but the soda, which must not be added until all is well mixed, and the cake is ready to be put into the oven. When the mixture has been well beaten, stir in the soda, put the cake into a buttered mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for Ih hour. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, is. 3d. CAKE, Good Holiday. Ingredients.—Ihd, worth of Berwick's German baking-powder, 2 lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, \ lb. of lard, 1 lb. of cur- rants, ^ lb. of stoned and cut raisins, ^ lb. of mixed candied peel, A lb. of moist sugar, 3 eggs, '{ pint of cold milk. Mode. —Mix the baking-powder with the flour; then rub in tho butter and lard ; have ready the currants, washed, picked, and dried, the raisins stoned and cut into smiill pieces (not chopped), and tho peel cut into neat slices. Add these with the sugar to the flour, &c., and mix all tho dry ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the milk, and with this liquid moisten the cako; boat it up CAKE-MOrLD. Cake, a nice useful well, that all may be very thoroughly i mixed; line a cake-tin with buttered paper, put in the cake, and bake it from 2\ to 2J hours in a good oven. To a«. certain when it is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, and if, on . withdrawing it, the knife looks clean, , and not sticky, the cako is done. To prevent it burning at the top, a piece of'. clean paper may be put over whilst the cake is soaking, or being thoroughly cooked in the middle. A steamer, such . as is used for steaming potatoes, makes < a very good cake-tin, if it be lined at tho ; bottom and sides with buttered paper. Time..—2^ to 2| hours. Average cost, 2s. Qd. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, Lnnclieon. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, I oz. of caraway seeds, | lb. of cuiTants, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of candied peel, 3 eggs, h pint of milk, 1 small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour until it is quite fine; add the caraway seeds, currants (which should be nicely washed, picked, and dried), sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices; mix these well together, and moisten with the eggs, which should be well whisked. Boil the milk, and add to it, whilst boil- ing, the carbonate of soda, which must be well stirred into it, and, with the milk, mix the other ingredients. Butter a tin, pour the cake into it, and bake it in a moderate oven from 1 to 1^ hour. Tivie.—1 to Ih hour. Avo'oge cost, Is. 8d. Seasonable at any time. CAKE, a nice useful. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, 6 oz. of currauts, ^ lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of candied peel. Mode.— Beat the butter to a cream ; wash, pick, and dry tho currants; whisk the eggs; blanch and chop tho almonds, and cut the peel into neat slices. When all these are ready, mix the dry ingredients to- gether ; then add the butter, milk, and eggs, and beat the mixture well for a few minutes. Put tho cake into a buttered • mould or tin, and bake it for rather ■ more than IJ hour. The cuirants and candied peel may be omitted, and a little lemon or almond flavouriafic «.'i»^tituted