THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 68 Cakes, Scrap cut into slices. Time.—1 to 1^ hour A veivffe cost, la. Seaaonahle at any time. CAKES, Scrap. Ingredients.—^Vos. of leaf, or the inside fat of a pig; 1^ lb. of flour, | lb. of moist sugar, h lb. of currants, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel, ground allspice to taste, il/orfe.—Cut the leaf, or flead, as it is sometimes called, into small pieces ; put it into a large dish, which place in a quick oven ; be careful that it does not burn, and in a shoi-t time it will be re- duced to oil, with the small pieces of leaf floating on the surface ; and it is of these that the cakes should be made. Gather all the scraps together, put them into a basin with the flour, and rub them well together. Add the currants, sugar, candied peel, cut into thin slices, and the ground allspice. When all these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with sufficient cold water to make the whole into a nice paste; roll it out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake the cakes in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. These are very economical and wholesome cakes for children, and the lard, melted at home, produced from the flead, is gene- rally better than that you purchase. To prevent the lard from burning, and to insure its being a good colour, it is better to melt it in a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water; by doing it in this manner, there will be no chance of its discolouring. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient to make 3 or 4 dozen cakes. Seasonable from September to March. CALF. Tho manner of cutting up a calf for tho English market is to divide the carcase into four quarters, with eleven ribs to each fore quarter ; which are again subdivided into joints, as exem- plified on the cut. Hind quarter:— 1. T\\o loin. 2. The chump, consisting of the i-ump and hock-bone. 8. The fillet. 4. The hock, or hind knuckle. Fo7'e quarter:— 5. The shoulder. 6. Tho neck. 7. The breast. 8. Tho fore knuckle. Calf's Feet, Baked or Stewed The several parts of a moderately-sized well-fed calf, about eight weeks old, are nearly of the following weights:—loin SIDE OF A CALP, SHOWIHa THE SBVEEAL SOXSia. and chump 18 lbs., fillet 12J lbs., hind knuckle 5^ lbs., shoulder 11" lbs., neck 11 lbs., breast 9 lbs., and fore knuckle 5 lbs.; making a total of 144 lbs. weight. The London mode of cutting tho car- case is considered better than that pur- sued in Edinburgh, as giving three I'oasting joints and one boiling in each quarter; besides the pieces being moi-e equally divided, as regards flesh, ami from the handsomer appearance they make on the table. CALF'S FEET, Baked or Stewed. Ingredients.—1 calf's foot, 1 pint of milk, Ipintof water, 1 blade of mace, the rind df lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Mod^^. Veil clean the foot, and either stew or bake it in tho milk-and-water with tho other ingredients from 3 to 4 hours. To enhance the flavour, an onion and a small quantity of celery may be »4dod,if