*fiE DICTIONAE? OF COOKEEY. 181 Lemon Creams, or Custards fill 12 glasses. Seasonable at any ne. BMON CEEAMS, or Custards. Ingredients.—5oz. of loaf sngar, 2 pinte boilin"- water, the rind of 1 lemon and e iuice'of 3, the yolks of 8 eggs. Mode. ake a quart of lemonade in the follow- g manner -.—Dissolve the sugar in the (iling water, having previously, with ,rt of the sugar, rubbed off the lemon- dd, and add the strained juice. Strain e lemonade into a saucepan, and add a yolks of the eggs, which should be ill beaten ; stir this one -way over the e until the mixture thickens, but do »t allow it to boil, and serve in custard asses, or on a glass dish. After the (iling water is poured on the sugar and men, it should stand covered for about hour before the eggs are added to it, at the flavour of the rind may be tracted. Time.—^2 hcur to make the monade; about 10 minutes to stir the stard over the fire. Average cost, Is. tfficient to fill 12 to 14 custard glasses. asonahle at any time. BMOTT DUMPLINGS. Ingi-edients.—}i lb. of grated bread, lb. of chopped suet, \ lb. of moist jgar, 2 eggs, 1 large lemon. Mode.— ix the bread, suet, and moist sugar lU together, adding the lemon-peel, ■which should le- Lemon-peel lElIOK DUUrLINGS, mon - 3UIC0 ; stir well, and put the mix- ro into small buttered cups. Tie them )Wn and boil for \ hour. Turn them •t on a dish, strew sifted sugar over lem, and servo with wine sauce. Time. \ hour. Average cost, Id. Sufficient r 6 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. EMON JELLY. Ingredients.—6 lemons, ^ lb. of lump jgar, 1 pint of water, l.j oz. of isin- ass, ^ pint of sheiTy. Mode.—Peel 3 the lemons, pour ^ pint of boiling iter on the rind, and let It inluse for lur; put the sugar, isinglass, and \ pint of water into a lined saucepan, and boil these ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained lemon-juice, the strained infusion of the rind, and bring the whole to the point of boiling ; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag ; pour it into a mould that has been wetted or soaked in water ; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain luitil required for table. Previously to adding the lemon-juice to the other ingre- dients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, as, if this is not properly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good effect. Lemon jelly may also be made with calf's-feet stock, allowing the juice of 3 lemons to every pint of stock. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average cost, with the best isin- glass, 3s. Qd. Sufficient to fill 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any time. LEMON MINCEMEAT. Ingredients.—2 large lemons, 6 larg« apples, i lb. of suet, 1 lb. of ctirrants, ^ lb. of "sugar, 2 oz. of candied lemon- peel, 1 oz. of citron, mixed spice to taste. Mode.—Pare the lemons, squeeze them, and boil the peel until tender enough to mash. Add to the mashed lemon-peel the apples, which should be pared, cored, and minced; the chopped suet, currants, sugar, sliced peel, and spice. Strain the lemon-juice to these ingredients, stir the mixture well, and put it in a jar with a closely-fitting lid. Sdr occasionally, and in a week or 10 days the mincemeat will be ready for use. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 18 largo or 24 small pies. Seasonable. —Make this about the begin- ning of December. LEMON-PEEL. This contains an essential oil of a very high flavour and fragrance, and is con- sequently esteemed both a wholesome and agreeable stomachic. It is used, as will bo seen by many recipes in this book, as an ingredient for flavouring a number of various dishes. Under the name of candied lenion-peel, it is cleared of tho pulp and preserved in sugar, when it bs- oomes an excellent sweetmeat.