THE DICTIONAEy OP COOKEEY. 308 Sauce, Sweet, for Puddings tlicm into tlio ketchup or walnut-liquor. Lot them stand for a fortnight, when strain off the liquor and bottle for use. Either pour a little of the sauce over the steaks, or mix it in the gravy. Season- able.—This can be made at any time. Note.—In using a jar of pickled wal- nuts, there is frequently left a large quantity of liquor. This should be con- verted into a sauce like the above, and will be found a very useful relish. SAUCE, Sweet, for Puddings. Ingredients.—h pint of melted butter made with milk, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, flavouring of grated lemon-rind or cinnamon. Mode.—Make h pint of melted butter, omitting any salt; stir in the sugar, add a little grated lemon-rindj nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon, and serve. Previously to making the melted butter, the milk can be flavoured with bitter almonds, by infusing about half a dozen of them in it for about \ hour; the milk should then be strained before it is added to the other ingredients. This simple sauce may be served for children with rice, batter, or bread pud- ding. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SAUCE, Sweet, for Venison. Ingredients.—A small jar of red-cur- rant jelly, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.— Put the above ingredients into a stew- pan, set them over the fire, and, when melted, pour in a tureen and serve. It should not be allowed to boil. Time.— 6 minutes to melt the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. SAUCE, Tourn^e. Ingredients.—1 pint of white stock, thickening of flour and butter, or white roux, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, (5 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about h hour; stir in suflicient thickening to make it of a proper con- sistency ; let it boil for a few minutes, then skim off all the fat, strain and serve. This sauce, with the addition of a little cream, is now frequently called veloutfi. Time.—h hour. Average cost, for this quantity'; «^ Sausage-meat Stuffing Note.—If poultry trimmings are at hand, the stock should be made of these. The above sauce should not bo made too thick, as it does not then admit cf the fat being nicely removed. SAUCE FOB "WTLDPOWIi. Ingredients.—1 glass of port wine, 1 tablespoonful of Leamington sauce, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 slice of lemon-peel, 1 large shalot cut in slices, 1 blade of mace, cayenne to taste. Mode, —Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it simmer for about 5 minutes; then strain and serve the sauce in a tureen. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, for this quantity, 8ci. SAUSAGE-MEAT, Fried. Ingredients.—To every 1 lb. of lean pork, add | lb. of fat bacon, h oz. of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. Mode.—Remove from the pork all skin, gristle, and bone, and chop it finely with the bacon ; add the remaining ingredients, and carefully mix altogether* Pound it well in a mortar, make it into convenient-sized cakes, flour these, and fry them a nice brown for about 10 minutes. This is a very simple method of making sausage-meat, and on trial will prove very good, its great recom- mendation being, that it is so easily made. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable from September to March, SAUSAGE - MEAT STUFFING FOR TURKEYS. Ingredients.—6 oz. of lean pork, 6 oz. of fat pork, both weighed after being chopped (beef-suet may be substituted for the latter), 2 oz. of bread-crumbs, 1 small tablespoonful of minced sage, 1 blade of pounded mace, salt and pepper to tasto, 1 egg. Mode.—Chop the meat and fat very finely, mix with them the other ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Mois- ten with the egg, and the stufiing will be ready for use. Equal quantities of this stuffing and forcemeat will be found to answer veiy well, as the herbs, lemon- peel, &c., in the latter, impart a very delicious flavour to the sausage-meat. As preparations, however, like stuffings end forcemeats, are matters to bo de-