THE DICTIOXARY OF COOKERY. Peas, Boiled Green Pare the pears, halve thorn, remove the cores, and leave the stalks on j put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be in from 3 to 4 hours, according to the qua- lity of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, carefully lifted out on to a glass dish without brealiing them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get perfectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fruit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it bo not too much done. Time.S to 4 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. Svfficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. PEAS, Boiled Green. Ingredienis.—Green peas; to each J gallon of water allow 1 small teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—This delicious vegetable, to bo eaten in perfection, should be young, and not gathered or shelled long be I ore it is dressed. Shell the peas, wash them well in cold water, and drain them ; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fasl-boiling water, to which salt and vioist sugar have been added in the above proiDortion; let them boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered, and be careful that the smoke does not draw in. When tender, pour them into a colander ; put them into a hot vegetable-dish, and quite in the centre of the peas place a piece, of butter, the size of a walnut. Many cooks boil a small bunch of mint with the peas, or garnish them with it, by boiling a few sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. Should the peas be very old, and diflRcult to boil a good colour, a very tiny piece of soda may be thrown in the water previous to putting them in; but this must bo very sparingly used, as it causes the peas, when boiled, to have a smashed and broken appoar- Peas, Stevtred Green ance. With young peas, there is n' the slightest occasion to use it, Tiine.- ■ Young peas, 10 to 15 minutes; the larj ■ sorts, such as marrowfats, &c., 18 to I . minutes; old peas, ^ hour. Average cot ■ when cheapest, Qd. per peck ; when fir i in season, Is, to Is. Qd. per peck. Svj dent—Allow 1 peck of unshelled pej* for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Jui i to the end of Augiist. ; PEAS, Green, a la Francaise. Ingredienis.—2 quarts of green pea ' 3 oz. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsle; 6 green onions, flour, a small lump sugar, i teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoo; ful of'flour. Mode.—SheW sufiBciei , ; fresh-gathered peas to fill 2 quarts ; pi i them into cold water, with the abo^ proportion of butter, and stir them aboi ^ until they are well covered with tl butter; drain them in a colander, ar , put them in a stewpan, with the parsk and onions; dredge over them a lift i flour, stir the peas well, and moistc ■ them with boiling water; boil the quickly over a large fire for 20 minute ' or until there is no liquor remainin: Dip a small lump of sugar into sou - water, that it may soon melt; put with the peas, to which add h teaspoonf ; of salt. Take a piece of butter the si:: • of a walnut, work it together with a te. i spoonful of flour, and add this to tl. _ peas, which should be boiling when it i put in. Keep shaking the stewpan, ani. when the peas are nicely thickenei . dress them high in the dish, and serv i [ Time. — Altogether, J hour. Avera^ ,. cost, 6d. per peck. Sufficient for 4 or .' persons. Seasonable from June to tlj | end of August. ^ PEAS, Stewed Green. I Ingredients.—1 quart of peas, llettuc ; 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and sa to taste, 1 egg, J teaspoonful of powden i, sugar. Mode.—Shell the peas, and ci r the onion and lettuce into slices; p\ i \ these into a stewpan, with the butte 11 pepper, and salt, but with no more wut< • than that which hangs around tl lettuce from washing. Stew the who very genftly for rather more than 1 houi then stir in a well-beaten egg, ai: about i teaspoonful of powdered suga i j When tlic peas, &c., are nicely thickenec servo; but, after the egg is added, o not allow them to boil Time.—l^ hou-i |