THE DICTIOitAllY OP COOKERY. 228 Ox, the Mako a syrup with tho above proportion of sugar aud wator, sufficient to covur tho oranges ; lot thorn stand in it for 2 or 3 days ; then drain them well. Weigh tho juice and pulp, allow double their weight of sugar, and boil them together until the scum ceases to rise, which must all \)0 carel'uUy removed; put in the fcranges, boil them for 10 minutes, place them in jars, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down. They will be fit for use in a week. Time.—3 days for the oranges to remain in water, 3 days in the syrup ; ^ hour to boil the pulp, 10 minutes the oranges. Season- able.—This proserve should be made in February or March, when oranges are plentiful. OX, The. The manner in which a side of beef is cut up in London is shown in the engraving on this page. In the metro- polis, on account of the largo number of its population possessing the means to indulge in the " best of everything," the demand for the most delicate joints of meat is great, the price, at the same time, being much higher for these than for the other parts. The consequence is, that in London the carcass is there di- vided so as to obtain the greatest quan- tity of meat on the most esteemed joints. In many places, however, where, from a greater equality in the social condition and habits of the inhabitants, the de- mand and prices for the different parts of the carcasses are more equalized, there is not the same reason for the butcher to cut the best joints so large. The meat on those parts of the animal in which the muscles are least called into action is most tender and succulent; as, for instance, along the back, from the rump to the hinder part of the shoulder; whilst the limbs, shoulder, and neck are the toughest, driest, and least-esteemed. The names of the several joints in the bind and fore quarters of a side of beef, and the purposes for which they are ised, are as follows:— Utnd Quarter:— 1. Sirloin,— the two sirloins, cut together in one joint, form a baron; this, when roasted, is the famous national dish of Eng- lishmen, at entertainments, on occasion of rejoicing. Ox, the 2. Rump,—tho finest part for steaks. 3. Aitch-bone,—boiling piece. 4. Buttock,—prime boiling piece. 6. Mouse-round,—Coiling or stew- ing. 6. flock,—stewing. BIDE OF BEEF, SHOWING THE SEVEQAL JOINTS. 7. Thick flank, cut with tho udder- fat,—primest boiling piece. 8. Thin flank,—boiling. Fore Quarter:— 9. Five ribs, called the foro-ril> — This is considered tho primci-t roasting piece.