THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 369 Whiting aux Finoa Herbes yer it strew some minced parsley and lushroDms. Scale, empty, and wash he whitinfTs, and wipe them thoroughly ry, carefully preserving the livers. Lay hem in the dish, sprinkle them with read-crumbs and seasoning, adding a ttle grated nutmeg, and also a little lore minced parsley and mushrooms, 'lace small pieces of butter over the fhiting, moisten with the wine, and bake 3r 20 minutes in a hot oven. If there bould be too much sauce, reduce it by oiUng over a sharp fire for a few minutes, nd pour under the fish. Serve with a ut lemon, and no other sauce. Time.— 0 minutes. Average cost, 4cZ. each. 'easonable all the year, but best from Ictober to March. Sufficient. — This uantity for 4 or 5 persons, VHITINQ AUX FINES HERBES. Ingredients.—1 bunch of sweet herbs hopped very fine ; butter. Mode.— ilean and skin the fish, fasten the tails 1 the mouths, and lay them in a baking- ish. Mince the herbs very fine, strew hem over the fish, and place small pieces f butter over; cover with another dish, nd let them simmer in a Dutch oven 3r { hour or 20 minutes. Turn the fish nee or twice, and, sers'e with the sauce lOured over. Time.—\ hour or 20 mi- utes. Average cost, id. each. Seasoii- hle all the year, but best from October 0 March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting Dr each person. ?^IDGEON, Roast, Ingredients.—y^idgeons, a little flour, lutter. Mode. — These are trussed in he same manner as wild duck, but must rOt be kept so long before they ai'e iressed. Put them down to a brisk fire ; our, and baste them continually with lutter, and, when browned and nicely rothed, send them to table hot and [uickly. Serve with brown gravy, or range gravy, and a cut lemon. Time.— hour; if liked well done, 20 minutes, iverage cost. Is. each: but seldom lought. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Sea- onable from October to February, ?7IDGEON. Widgeon ma^ bo carved in tho same ^ay as descrioed in regard to wild lucl-. "Wine Sauce for Puddings WINE OR BRANDY SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 pint of melted butter. 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar'; 1 large winoglassful of port or sherry, oi f of a small glassful of brandy. Mode. — Make ^ pint of melted butter, omitting the salt; then stir in the sugar and wine or spirit in the above propor- tion, and bring the sauce to the point of boiling. Serve in a boat or tureen sepa- rately, and, if liked, pour a little of it over the pudding. To convert this into punch sauce, add to the sherry and bi-andy a small wineglassful of rum and the juice and grated rind of ^ lemon. Liqueurs, such as Maraschino or Curagoa, substituted for the brandy, make ex- cellent sauces. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. WINE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, Ingredients.—^ pint of sherry, \ pint of water, the yolks of 5 eggs, 2 ozs. of pounded sugar, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, a few pieces of candied citron cut thin. Mode.—Separate the yolks from the whites of 5 eggs ; beat them, and put them into a very clean saucepan (if at hand, a lined one is best); add all the other ingredients, place them over a sharp fire, and keep stirring until the sauce begins to thicken ; then take it off and serve. If it is allowed to boil, it will be spoiled, as it will immediately curdle. Time. —To be stirred over the fire 3 or 4 minutes ; but it must not boil. Average cost, 2s. Sifficient for a large pudding ; allow half "this quantity for a moderate-sized one. Seasonable at any time. WINE SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, Excellent, Ingredients.—ThQ yolks of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz, of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of fresh butter, \ saltspoon- ful of salt, A pint of sherry or Madeira. Mode.—Vwt the butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former thickens; then add the sugar, salt, and wine, and mix these in- gredients well together. Separate the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs; boat up the former, and. stir them Drisidy to the sauce ; let it remain over the fire unti' ■*