59 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Calf's Feet, BoHed ipproved ; ^ a teacupful of cream, stirred n just before serving, is also a great mprovement to this dish. Time.—3 to t hours. Average cost, in full season. Id. each. Sufficient for 1 person. Sea- OJiable from March to October. JALF'S FEET, Boiled, and Parsley and Butter. Ingredients.—2 calf's feet, 2 slices of aeon, 2 oz. of butter, two tablespoon- ils of lemon-juice, salt and whole epper to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of iToury herbs, 4 cloves, 1 blade of mace, •ater, parsley, and butter. Mode.— Irocure 2 white calf s feet; bone them i far as the first joint, and put them ito warm water to soak for 2 hours, hen put the bacon, butter, lemon-juice, lion, herbs, spices, and seasoning into stewpan ; lay in the feet, and pour in ist sufficient water to cover the whole, tew gently for about three hours ; take it the feet, dish them, and cover with irsley and butter. The liquor they ere boiled in should be strained and put Sr in a clean basin for use: it will be land very good as an addition to gravies, Q. Time.—Rather more than 3 hours. verage cost, in full season, 9cl. each. efficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Itarch to October. ■a-lf's-foot broth, UJngi-edieTds.—1 calPs foot, 3 pints of .1 ■ iter, 1 small lump of sugar, nutmeg to il ste, the yolk of 1 egg, a piece of butter I e size of a nut. Mode.—Stew the foot I the water with the lemon-peel very ', lin^iy, until the liquid is half wasted, jAnoving any scum, should it rise to the Jtface. Set it by in a basin until quite 'yBjld, then take off every particle of fat. ^'Ijarm up about ^ pint of the broth, ''iMding the butter, sugar, and a very jjHall quantity of grated nutmeg; take ^'•off the fire for a minute or two, then •Id the beaten yolk of the ogg; keep MTing over the fire until the mixture ^■llckens, but do not allow it to boil ' -lin after the egg is added, or it will rrlle, and the broth will be spoiled. ine.—To bo boiled until the liquid is hiced one half. Average cost, in full ^on, 9d. each. Sufficient to make 1,^ it of broth. Seasonable from March Octoberi Calf's-Feet JeUy CALF'S FEET, Fricasseed. Ingredients.—A setof calf's feet; for the batter, allow for each egg 1 tablespoonf ul of flour, 1 tablespoonful of bread-crumbs, hot lard, or clarified dripping, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—If the feet are pur- chased uncleaned, dip them into warm water repeatedly, and scrape off the hair, first one foot and then the other, until the skin looks perfectly clean, a saucepan of water being kept by the fire until they are finished. After washing and soaking in cold water, boil them in just sufficient water to cover them, until the bones come easily away. Then pick them out, and after straining the liquor into a clean vessel, put the meat into a pie-dish until the next day. Now cut it down in slices about § inch thick, lay on them a stiff batter made of egg, flour, and bread- crumbs in the above proportion; season with pepper and salt, and plunge them into a pan of boiling lard. Fry the slices a nice brown, dry them before the fire for a minute or two, dish them on a napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. This should be eaten with melted butter, mustard, and vinegar. Be careful to have the lard boiling to set the batter, or the pieces of feet will run about the pan. The liquor they were boiled in should be saved, and will be found useful for enriching gravies, making jellies, &c. Time.—About 3 hours to stew the feet, 10 or 15 minutes to fry them. Average cost, in full season, 9d. each. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—This dish can be highly recom- mended to delicate persons. CALF'S-FEET JELLY. Ingredients.—1 quart of calf's-feet stock, h lb. sugar, ^ pint of sherry, 1 glass of Brandy, the shells and whites of 5 eggs, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, ^ oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Prepare the stock as directed in recipe for stock, taking care to leave the sediment, and to remove all the fat from the surface. Put it into a saucepan cold, without clarifying it; add the remaining ingredients, and stir thom well together before the saucepan is placed on tho fire. Then simmer the mixture gontly for ^ hour, but do not stir it after it begins to loarm. Throw in a teacu])ful of cold water, boil for another 5 minutes, and keep the saucepan covered by the side of tb"? fire for about ^ hour.