Ivii The Cook Washes up the Luncbeon Things. Snisbiug it with a polishing-brush. All the bright polished steel part should oe rubbed with emery paper, and afterwards with a leather, as should also be the 3re-irons and the steel portion of the fender. In washing the hearthstone she should be very careful not to let any of the water touch the grate ; if a fire is to oe lighted, that should be done before the washing of the hearthstone. 366. She should then remove all these utensils, and having provided herself mth a clean duster and a cornice-broom, she should dust all the room carefully, i\'iping down the walls, going over all the cornices, and the doors, the window-panes, iills, and ledges. If there are any pictures in the rooms they should be dusted vith a light feather-brush, as should the frame of the chimney-glass ; the plate should be polished with a clean dry linen cloth. She should then dust all the "urniture, and replace the several articles in their proper positions. 367. Her morning's occupation of washing or house-cleaning being over, the look will probably have to occupy herself with some work in the culinary depart- nent, the making of soup, or preparing sweet dishes for the late dinner; or, if here be children in the family who dine early, she will have to get their dinner. \.t one o'clock, or half-past — THE HOUSEMAID TAKES UP THE LUNCHEON-TRAY. 368. Tlie children's dinner will be served at the same time. The things to bd aken up will depend entirely on the nature of the meal, but for whatever is lerved there must be a sufficient supply of knifes, forks, spoons, plates, glasses, £c., for the number of persons who are to partake of it. While the family are at uncheon the servants will take their dinner. The tray being removed— THE COOK WASHES UP THE THINGS, )roceeding the same as she did with the breakfast things, while the housemaid ;oe8 to her room, changes her morning print dress for a neat stuff, and puts on a ilean white apron, cap, collar, and cuffs. She is then ready to open the door for 'isitors. 369. The afternoon the housemaid will employ, on some days, in starching pnnklmg, or ironing the fine things ; on others she may have some house leedlework, such as hemming dusters and glass-cloths, or mending stockings, heets, &c., to do. o & , 370. Before or at four o'clock, the cook will have to set about getting the Imner ready. If the dinner-hour be half-past six or seven, five will be time nough for the housemaid to begin her preparations. 871. She .should first clran the knives ; this, if done in the patent l.nifo .leaner.