383 Philosophy of Housekeeping. BOAST SUCKINa-PIQ. Ingredients.—Pig, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to ba?te with, about J pint of gravy, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, stuff it with finely-grated bread- crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly, and truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, and the under part to be crisp. Put the pig down to a bright clear fire, not too near, and let it lie till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter tied up in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. Keep it well rubbed with the butter the whole of the time it is roasting, and do not allow the crackling to become blistered or burnt. When half-done, hang a pig-iron before the middle part (if this be not obtainable, use a flat iron), to prevent its being scorched and dried up before the ends are done. Before it is taken from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the middle. Chop the brains and mix them with the stufiing ; add ^ pint of good gravy, a tablcspoonful of lemon-juice, and the gravy that flowed from the pig ; put a little of this on the dish with the pig, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Place the pig back to back in the dish, with one half of the head on each side, and one of the ears at each end, and send it to table as hot as possible. Instead of the butter, many cooks take salad oil for basting, which makes the crackling a-isjj; and as this is one of the principal things to be considered, perhaps it is desirable to use it; but be particular that it is very pure, or it will impart an unpleasant flavour to the meat. The brains and stufiing may be stirred into a tureen of melted butter instead of gravy, when the latter is not liked. Apple sauce and the old- fashioned currant sauce are not yet obsolete as accompaniments to roast pig. ROAST FORE-QUARTER OP LAMB. Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—To obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that is required ; and though the meat may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up the fire in good time, that it may be c^ear and brisk when the joint is put down. Place it at sufficient distance to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroughly done without being dried up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be visible, as in roast mutton : this rule is appli- cable to all young white meats. Servo with a little gravy made in the dripping- pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with a tureen of mint sauce and' a fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh butter, and a littla