THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 8 Anchovies, Potted 3m in the paste, and fry of a nice brovrn lour. Time.—hour. Average cost, for is quantity, M. Sufficient for 2 per- is. Seasonable all the year. CTCHOVIES, Potted, or Anchovy Butter. Ingredients.—2 dozen anchovies, h lb. fresh butter. Mode.—Wash the an- ovies thoroughly; bone and dry them, d pound them in a mortar to a paste. X the butter gradually with them, and b the whole through a sieve. Put it by small pots for use, and carefully ex- ide the air with a bladder, as it soon anges the colour of anchovies, besides oiling them. To potted anchovies may added pounded mace, cayenne, and tmeg to taste. PPLE CHABLOTTE, a very simple. Ingredients.—9 slices of bread and tter, about 6 good-sized apples, 1 t)lespoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 blespoonfuls of juice, moist sugar to 3te. Mode.—Butter a pie-dish; place layer of bread and butter, without the ust, at the bottom; then a layer of pies, pared, cored, and cut into thin ces; sprinkle over these a portion of e lemon-peel and juice, and sweeten th moist sugar. Place another layer bread and butter, and then one of pies, proceeding in this manner \intii e dish is full; then cover it up with the el of the apples, to preserve the top )m browning or burning; bake in a isk oven for rather more than ^ hour; m the charlotte on a dish, sprinkle "ted sugar over, and serve. Time.— hour, or a few minutes longer. Aver- e cost, Is. Sufficient for -5 or 6 persons. asondUe fi'om August to March. ^ PPLE CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—\ lb, of apple pulp, \ lb. sifted sugar, ^ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, e rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode.— ,re, core, and boil sufficient apples to ike lb, when cooked; add to tlicse e sugar, the butter, which should bo elted, the eggs, leaving out 2 of tho lites, and the grated rind and juice of smon; stir the mixture well; lino somo tty-pans with puflF-pasto ; put in the xture, and bake about 20 minutes.— me.—About 20 minutes. Average cost, Apple Dtunplings, Boiled for the above quantity, with the paste, l.s. Qd. Sufficient for about 18 or 20 cheesecakes. Seasonable from August t March. APPLE CUSTABD, Baked. Ingredients.—1 dozen large apples, moist sugar to taste, 1 small teacupfu of cold water, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Mode.—^Peel, cut, and core the apples ; put them into a lined saucepan with the cold water, and, as they heat, bruise them to a pulp ; sweeten with moist sugar, and add the gi'ated lemon-rind. When cold, put the fmit at the bottom of a pie-dish, and pour over it a custard, made with the above proportion of milk, eggs, and sugar; gi-ate a little nutmeg over the top, place the dish in a moderate oven, and bake from 25 to 35 minutes. The above proportions will make rather a large dish. Time.—25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, Is. 6d., if fruit has to be bought. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE DUMPLINGS, Baked Plain Family Dish). Ingredients.—6 apples, suet-crust, su- gar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples with a scoop, and make a suet-crust with | lb. of floin" to 6 oz. of suet; roll the apples in the crust, previously sweetening them with moist sugar, and taking care to join the paste nicely. When they are formed into round balls, put them on a tin, and bake them for about ^ hour, or longer, should tho apples be very large ; arrange them pyramidically on a dish, and sift over them some pounded white sugar. These may be made richer by using puff-paste instead of suet-crust. Time.—From h to I hour, or longer. Average cost, li^d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January." APPLE DUMPLmGS, BoUed. Ingredients.—6 apples, suet-crust, sii*- gar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples with a scoop ; sweeten, and roll each apple in a piece of cmst, made with J lb. of flour to 6 oz. of suet, and bo particular that tho paste is nicely joined. Put the dumplings into floured cloths, tie them securely,