114 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eggs h la Maltre d'HStel it to come to the boiling-point. Break the eggs into cups, slip them into the boiling fat, and let thorn remain until the whites are rBiEB EGGS ON BACoir. delicately tot; and, whilst they are frying, ladle a little of the fat over them. Take them up with a slice, drain them for a minute from their greasy moisture, trim them neatly, and serve on slices of frieil bacon or ham ; or .the eggs may be placed in the middle of the dish, with the bacon put round as a garnish. Time.—2 to 3 mi- nutes. Average cost, Id. each ; 2d. when scarce. Siifficienl for 2 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. EGGS b, la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients.—^ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespnonful of flour, ^ pint of milk, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, the juice of ^ lemon, 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the flour and half the butter into a stewpan ; stir them over the fire until the mixture thickens; pour in the milk, which should be boiling; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and simmer the whole for 5 minutes. Put the remainder of the butter into the sauce, and add the minced parsley ; then boil the eggs hard, strip oS' the shell, cut the eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish. Bring the sauce to the boiling- point, add the lemon-juice, pour over the eggs and serve. Time.—5 minutes to boil the sauce; the eggs, 10 to 15 mi- nutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to Pickle. Ingredients. —16 eggs, 1 quai-t of vinegar, .J oz. of black pepper, h oz. of Jamaica pepper, h oz. of gingor. Mode.— Boil the eggs for 12 minutes, then dip them into cold water, and take ofi" the shells. Put the vinegar, with the pepper and ginger, into a stewpan, and let it simmer for 10 minutes. Now place the eggs in a jar, pour over them the vinegar, &c., boiling hot, and, when cold, tie them down with bladder to exclude the air. This pickle will bo ready for use in a month. Average cost, for this quantity, 15. 9d. Seasonable.—This should bo made about Easter, as at this time eggs are plentiful and cheap. A store of pickled eggs will be found very useful Eggs, Poached and ornamental in serving with many first and second course dishes. EGGS ATJ PLAT, or AU MIROIR, served on the Dish in which they are Cooked. Ingredients.—i eggs, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. —Butter a dish rather thickly with good fresh butter; melt it, break the eggs into it the same as for poaching, sprinkle them with white pepper and fine salt, and put the remainder of the butter, cut into very small pieces, on the top of them. Put the dish on a hot plate, or in the oven, or before the fire, and let it remain until the whites become set, but not hard, when serve immediately, placing the dish they were cooked in on another. To hasten the cooking of the egg^s, a sala- mander may bo held over them for a minute; but great care must be taken that they are not too much done. This is an exceedingly nice dish, and one very easily prepared for breakfast. Time.— 3 minutes. Average cost, 5d. Sufficierd for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. EGGS, Plovers'. Plovers' eggs are usually served boiled hard, and sent to table in a napkin, either hot or cold ; they may also be shelled, and served the same as eggs h. la Tripe, with a good B€chamel sauce, or brown gravy, poured over them. They are also used for decorating salads, the beautiful colour of the white being gene- rally so much admired. EGGS, Poached. Ingredients.—Eggs, water. To every pint of water allow 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode. — Eggs for ]ioaching should be perfectly fresh, but not quite new-laid; those that arc about 36 hours old are the best for the purpose. If quite new-laid, the white is so milky it is almost impossible to set it; and, on the other hand, if the egg be at all stale, it is equally diflicult to poach it nicelj'. Strain some boiling w.iter into a deei? clean frjdng-pan; break the egg into a cup without damaging the yolk, and, when the water boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and gently slip the egg into it. Place the pan over a gentle fire, and keep the water simmering until the white looks nicely set, when the egg is ready. Take it up gently with a slice,