THE DIGTIONAJRY OF COOKERY. 257 Plum Pudding (a Poxand) from it. The day it is to be e.aten, plunge it into boiling watei-, and keep it boiling for at least 2 hours; then turn it out, of the mould, and serve with brandy-sauce. On Christmas-day a sprig of holly is usually placed in the middle of the pudding, and about a wine- glassful of brandy poured round it, which, at the moment of serving, is lighted, and the pudding thus brought to table encircled in flame. Time.—5 or 6 hours the first time of boiling ; 2 hours the day it is to be served. Average cost, is. Sufficient for a quart mould for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable on the 25th of December, and on various festive occa- sions till March. Note.—Five or six of these puddings should be made at one timo^^is they will keep good for many weAs, auc^ in cases where unexpected gue4s arrive^ will be found an acceptable antL as ij/only re- quires warming through/^-tJuickly-pre- pared dish. Moulds' of every shape and size ai-e manufact&ped for these pud- dings, and may be purchased of Messrs. R. & J. Slack, 336, Strand. PLUM PUDDIITG (a Pound). Ingredients.=^l lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 8 eggs, t grated nutmeg, 2 oz. of sliced candied peiel, 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, h lb. of bread crumbs, i lb. of flour, k pint of milk. J/orfe.—Chop the suet A'aely; mix with it the dry ingredients ; stir Phim Tart BAKED PUDDING, OE CAKB-MOUID. these well together, and add the well- beaten eggs and milk to moisten With. Beat up the mixture well, and should the above pronortion of milk not bo found sufficient to make it of the pro- per consistency, a little more should bo added. Press the pudding into a mould, wo It in a floured cloth, and boil for five hours, or rather longer, and serve with brandy-sauce. Time.—5 hours, or longer. Average cost, Zs. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. Note.—The above pudding may bo baked instead of boiled; it should be put into a buttered mould or tin, and baked for about 2 hours; a smaller one would take about 1;^ hour. PLUM PUDDIIyTG (Fresh Fruit). Ingredients.—1_ lb. of suet crust, Ih pint of Orleans *or any other kind of plum, \ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust rolled out to the thickness of about h, inch; fill the basin with the fniit, plit in the sugar, and cover with crust. Fold the edges over, and pinch them together, to prevent the juice escaping. Tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boil* ing water, and boil from 2 to 2.^ hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve quickly. Time.—2 to 2^ hours. Average cost, IM. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the bo- ginning of October. PLUM TABT. Ingredients.—^ lb, of good short crust, 1^ pint of plums, ^ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line the edges of a deep tart- dish with crust; fill the dish with plums, and place a small cup or jar, upside down, in the midst of them. Put in the sugar, cover the pie with crust, orna- ment the edges, and bake in a good PLTTM TAET. oven from ^ to f hour. When pufiF-crust is preferred to short crust, uso that made by the given recipe, and glaze the top by brushing it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stifi' froth with a knife ; sprinkle over a little sifted sugar, and put the pie in the oven to set the glaze. Time.—I to f hour. Average cost, Is. SafficCent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums> from the beginning of August to thg beginning of October. 9