vii How to Keep a Linen-presa. left at the bottom of your butt, while the clean, pure, bright water will fill the tank; and this simple plan is all that is required to obtain the great luxury of i clean soft water. ! HOW TO KEEP A LITyTEN-PEESS. 1 38. As Mrs. Glasse said, first catch your hare, so I say, first fill your linen-press. Good linen, though expensive, is far more economical than is cheap linen. , 39. Sheets should be wider and longer than the bed they are used on, and should bo marked in pairs, as, "E. J. Brown, Pair 5," with date of the year. Tho ^eras should be sewn, not hemmed, with linen thread. They should be folded in pairs, and a ring of wide cotton elastic pa?sed round each pair; on this ring a card phould be sewn, with the mark repeated on it, the size of the sheet added, or, in small set of linen, the name of the bedroom, as " E. J. Brown, Pair G, 1871— 5pare room." This enables a new servant, or entire stranger, to select sheets required in a hurry; for it should be the chief aim of the mistress so to arrange ler house that even in her absence all should go on with regularity and order, ind that m case of illness everything may be found without her assistance. 40. PiLLOw-CASES.-These should be of fine linen, the cases to fit easily the billows, and made with a double hem, in which button-holes are placed Finely, rilled pillow-cases look very nice, but unless expense is of little object, should be ept for the use of the spare room. Pillow-cases should be arranged in half- ozens, and an elastic band and card placed round each parcel, with the mark, umber, and room to which they belong clearly written on the card, U ^^^^^-^'^OTHS.-These should be folded carefully, and each table-cloth lould have the band and card, with the mark, date, &c., and, in addiuon, the ze of the toble-cloth. By this plan the size is known at a glance, and all double and loss of time in unfolding and refolding avoided. 42 Table Napkixs should not be marked in ink, but the monogram worked in .sed embroidery. These are usually kept in a silk case, but may be tied by T' w ^^«°ribing them is sewn ; as, for instance, " Dinner " or Breakfast,""Dmner, best,'"'Dinner, daily." 4^ TOWELS should be arranged in the same way as the other parcels of linei • elastic band and card are convenient for these ; they should be ™d lu df-dozens, whether rough, bath, fine, or of medium quality. ^ ^ f Pleasanter to use than ordinary towels Thev ou d be of fine huckaback, and measure three yards each way; bit ^ stUl ^ ought m hot at the hour for rising. On leaving tho bath, one is entirely