THE DlCTIONAEY OF COOKEBY. CJlieese deprived of half the cream; Double Gloucester is a cheese that pleases almost every palate : it is made of the whole milk and cream. Stilton cheese is made by adding the cream of one day to the entire milk of the next: it was first made at Stilton, in Leicestershire. Sage cheese is so called from the practice of colour- ing some curd with bruised sage, mari- gold-leaves, and parsley, and mixing this with some uncoloured curd. With the Eomans, and during the middle ages, this practice was extensively adopted. Cheddar cheese much rc-sembles Parmesan. It has a very agreeable taste and flavour, and has a spongy appearance. Brickbat cheese has nothing remarkable except its form. It is made by turning with rennet a mixture of cream and new milk; the curd is put into a wooden vessel the shape of a brick, and is then pressed and dried in the usual way. Dimlop cheese has a peculiarly mild and rich taste : the best is made entirelj' from new milk. New cheese (as it is called in London) is made chiefly in Lincolnshii'e, and is either mafie of all cream, or, like Stilton, by adding the cream of one day's milking to the milk that comes immediately from the cow : they are extremely thin, and are compressed gently two or three times, turned for a few days, and then eaten new with radishes, salad, &c. Shimmed Milk cheese is made for sea voyages prin- cipally. Parnusan cheese is made in Parma and Piacenza. It is the most celebrated of all cheese: it is made en- tirely of skimmed cows' milk ; the high flavour which it has is supposed to be owing to the rich herbage of the meadows of the Po, where the cows are pastured. The best Parmesan is kept for three or four years, and none is carried to market till it is at least six months old. Dutch cheese derives its peculiar pungent taste from the practice adopted in Holland of coagulating the milk with muriatic acid instead of rennet. S^viss cheeses, in their several varieties, are all remarkable for their fine flavour ; that from Gruyere, a bailiwick in the canton of Fribourg, is best known in England ; it is flavoured by the dried herb of Melilotos officinalis in powder. Cheese from milk and pota- toes is manufactured in Thuringia and Saxony. Cream cheese, although so called, is not properly cheese, but is nothing moro than cream dried BufBciently to be cut with a knife. Cheese, Pounded CHEESE. In families where much cheese is con- sumed, and it is bought in large quan- tities, a piece from the whole cheese should be cut, the larger quantity spread with a thickly-buttered sheet of white paper, and the outside occasionally wiped. To keep cheeses moist that are in daily use, when they come from table a damp cloth should be wrapped round them, and the cheese put into a pan with a cover to it, in a cool but not very dry place. To ripen cheeses, and bring them forward, put them into a damp cellar; and to check too large a production of mites, spirits may be poured into the parts affected. Pieces of cheese which are too near the rind, or too dry to put on table, may be made into Welsh rare- bits, or grated down and mixed with macaroni. Cheeses may be preserved in a perfect state for years, by covering them with parchment made pliable by soaking in water, or by rubbing them over with a coating of melted fat. The cheeses selected should bo free fi-om cracks or bruises of any kind. CHEESE, Mode of Serving. The usual mode of serving cheese at good tables is to cut a small quantity oi it into neat square pieces, and to put them into a glass cheese-dish, this dish being handed round. Should the cheese crum- ble much, of course this me- thod is rather wasteful, and it cheese-glass. may then be put on the table in tha piece, and the host may cut from it. When served thus, the cheese must al- ways be carefully scraped, and laid on a white d'oyley or napkin, neatly folded. Cream cheese is often served in a cheese course, and, sometimes, grated Parme- san : the latter should be put into a covered glass dish. Kusks, cheese-bis- cuits, pats or slices of butter, and salad, cucumber, or water-cresses, should al- ways form part of a cheese-course. CHEESE, Pounded. Ingredients.—To every lb. of clicose allow 3 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—To pound cheese is an economical way of using it if it has become dry; it is ex*