288 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Kice, Sweet Casserole of and let it cool. Then dip the mould into hot water, turn tho casserole carefully on to a dish, mark whoro the lid is to be fonned on tho top, by making an incision with the point of a knife about an inch from the edge all round, and put it into a very hot oven. Brush it over with a little clarified butter, and bake about h hour, or rather longer; then carefully remove the lid, which will be formed by the incision having been made all round, and remove the bread, in small pieces, with the point of a penknife, being care- ful not to injure the casserole, FiU the centre with the ragotlt or fricassee, which should be made thick; put on the cover, glaze it, place it in the oven to set the glaze, and serve as hot as possible. The casserole should not be emptied too much, as it is liable to crack from the weight of whatever is put in ; and, in baking it, let the oven be very hot, or the casserole wiU probably break. Time. —About f hour to sweU the rice. Suffi- cient for 2 moderate - sized casseroles. Seasonable at any time, mCE, SWEET CASSEBOLE OP (an Entremets). Ingredients.—1^ lb. of rice, 3 pints of milk, sugar to taste, flavouring of bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.-—This is made in precisely the same manner as a savoury casserole, only substituting the milk and sugar for the stock and salt. Put the milk into a stewpau, with sufficient essence of bitter almonds to flavour it well; then add the rice, which should be washed, picked, and drained, and let it swell gradually in the milk over a slow fire. When it is tender, stir in the sugar, butter, and yilks of eggs; butter a mould, press in the rice, and proceed in exactly the same manner as in preceding recipe. When tho casserole is ready, tiU it with a coni- pOte of any fruit that may be preferred, or with melted apricot-jam, and serve. Time.—From ^ to 1 hour to swell the rice, ^ to ^ hour to bake tho casserole. Average cost, exclusive of tho compOte or jam, is. 9d. Sufficient for 2 casseroles. Seasonable at anytime, BiOE CROQUETTES. hifjrcdients.—l lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk', 6 oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, lemou-pccl, or bilS, ^r almonds, Rice-Milk ■ p-r- egg and bread-crumbs, hot lard. Mode ■■: —Put the rice, milk, and sugar int' a saucepan, and let tho former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the mili is dried up ; and just before tho rico i: done, stir in a few drops of essence o i :.z. any of the above flavourings. Let th( f [:i rice get cold ; then form it into smaL. c- round balls, dip them into yolk of egg^; at sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, ana in fry them in boiling lard for about 1( minutes, turning them about, that thei EI( may get equally browned. Drain tl.' ' greasy moisture froni them, by placiL them on a cloth in front of the fire for t 1. minute or two ; pile them on a wliitt t. d'oyle}', and send them quickly to tablo f A small piece of jam is sometimes intro f ' duced int« the middle of each croquettc which adds very much to the flavour £■ this favourite dish. Tiine.—From \ to hour to swell the rice ; about 10 minut c to fry the croquettes. Average, cost, \Qv Sufficient to make 7 or 8 croquettes, Seasonable at any time. BICE FRITTERS, -j! Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart ol! milk, 3 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of fresh but- ■ ter, 6 oz. of orange marmalade, 4 eggs,-. Mode.—Swell the rice in the milk, witb i i: the sugar and butter, over a slow fire; ~ until it is perfectly tender, which will b£ ; u in about | hour. When the rice is done,. strain away the milk, should there be any left, and mis with it the marmalaii and well-beaten eggs; stir the whole . over the fire until the eggs are set; then i| spread the mixture on a dish to tho thicknesc of about h inch, or rath<: thicker. When it is'perfectly cold, ci ■ it into long strips, dip them in a batti: the same as for apple fritters, and fry . them a nice brown. Dish them on a» white d'oylej', strew sifted sugar over, and serve quickly. Time.—About J hoi; to swell the rice ; from 7 to 10 minuU - to fry the fritters. Average cost. Is. 6» Sufficient to make 7 or 8 fritters. Season- able at any time. BICE-MILK. Ingredients.—Z tablespoonfuls of rice, 1 quart of milk, sugar to taste; whcu liked, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Well wash the rice, put it into a pan with tho milk, and simmer until tho rice is tender, stirring it i ^ - time to time to prevent tho milk froiD