THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 181 Lemon "Wino I tho forcgffiinnf rccipo ; tic down closely, and in about 9 months thoy will bo (it for uso. Seusonahle.—Tlio best time to mako tills is from November to April. Note.—After tliispicklo bas been mndo from 4 to 5 months, tho litpior may bo strained and buttled, and will bo found an oxcellent lemon ketchup, LEMOU" WINE. Tngredienls.—To 4J gallons of water allow tho pulp of 50 lemons, the rind of 25, 16 lbs. of loaf sugar, h oz. of isinglass, 1 bottlo of brandy. At ode.—Peel and slice the lemons, but uso only the rind of 25 of them, and put them into tho cold ■water. Let it stand 8 or 9 days, squeez- ing the lemons well every day; then strain the water off and put it into a cask with the sugar. Let it work some time, and when it has ceased working, put in the isinglass. Stop the cask down ; in about six months put in the bi'andy and bottlo the wine off'. Season- able.—Tho best time to mako this is in January or Februai-y, when lemons are best and cheapest. LEMONADE. Ingredients.—The rind of two lemons, tho juico of 3 large or 4 small ones, h lb. of loaf sugar, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode. —Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on 2 of the lemons until they have im- bibed all the oil from them, and put it •with the remainder of the sugar into a jug ; add the lemon-juice (but no pips), and pour over the whole a quart of boil- ing water. When the sugar is dissolved, strain tho lemonade through a fine sieve or piece of muslin, and, when cool, it will be ready for use. The lemonade will be much improved by having tho white of an egg beaten up in it; a little shen-y mixed with it, also, makes this beverage much nicer. Average cost, Qd. per quai't. LEMONADE, NourisMng. Ingredients.—1^ pint of boiling water, tho juico of 4 lemons, tho rinds of 2, ^ pint of sherry, 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare off tho lemon-i-ind thuily, put it into a jug with tho sugar, and pour over tho boiling water. Let it cool, then strain it; add tho wino, lemon- juice, and eggs, previously well beaten, an(l also strained, and tho beverage will be ready for uso. If thought desu-ablc, Liaison of Egga tho quantity of sherry and water cou bo lessened, and rmlk substituted j them. To obtain tho flavour of % lemon-rind properly, a few lumps of t sugar should be rubbed over it, v;; sonio of tho yellow is absorbed. 7'- : —Altogether ] hour to make it. A vera cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to make 2\ k-ii, of lemonade. Seasonable at any time, ciot;i or^ e mi LETTUCES, These form one of tho principal injrr dients to summer salads ; .they fihoulcf blanched, and bo eaten young. Theya seldom served in any other way, but be stewed and sent to table in brown gravy flavoured with lemon-j In preparing them for a salad, careful wash them free from dirt, pick off all t decayed and outer leaves, and dry the. thoroughly by shaking them in a clol Cutoff tho stalks, and either halve or the lettuces into small pieces. The ner of cutting them up entirely de_ on the salad for which they are intendii In France, the lettuces are sometinji merely wiped with a cloth and Di washed, the cooks there declaring tk the act of washing them injurious, affects the pleasant crispness of ij plant: in this case scnipulous attei must bo paid to each leaf, and the thoroughly wiped away. Average when cheapest. Id. each. Sajjicie. Allow 2 lettuces for 4 or 5 pe Seasonable from JIarch to tho end' August, but may bo had all tho year. LEVEBET, to Dress a. Ingredients.—2 leverets, butter, flc; Mode.—Leverets should be trussed the same manner as a hare, but tlicy ( not require stuffing. Roast them hefo a clear fire, and keep them well bash all the time they are cooking. A fc minutes before serving, dred r t' - ' lightly with flour, and froth thci Serve with plain gra\'y in the C\. ... i send to tablercd-curraut jelly wit !j ther | Time.—.\ to ^ hour. Average co^' season, 3j. each. Sufficient for persons. Seasonable from May to Au^u; | but cheapest in July and August. ^ LIAISON OF EGGS, for Thickei * ing Sauces. In^/rcdiciits.—Tho yolks of 3 egg 8 tiiblespoonfuls of milk or cro.'Ui