THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. I 6S Carrots, to Dress Wish and scrapo tho carrots, and should there bo any black specks, remove them. If very large, cut them in halves, divide them lengthwise into four pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion; let them boil until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork into them: dish, and serve vei-y hot. This vegetable is an indispensable accompaniment to boiled beef. When thus served, it is usually boiled with the beef; a few carrots are placed round the dish as a garnish, and the remainder sent to table in a vege- table-dish. Young carrots do not require nearly so much boiling, nor should they be divided: these make a nice addition to stewed veal, &c. Time.—Large carrots, 1| to 2;^ hoiu-s; young ones, about § hour. Average cost, 6cL to 8d. per bunch of 18. diffident.—4 large carrots for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable. — Young carrots from April to July, old ones at any time. CAHROTS, to dress, in the German way. Ingredients.—8 large carrots, 3 oz. of butter, salt to taste, a very little grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of minced onion, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Wash and scrape the carrots, and cut them into rings of about \ inch in thickness. Put tho bxittcr into a stew- pan ; when it is melted, lay in the car- rots, with salt, nutmeg, parsley, and onion in the above proportions. Toss the stewpan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the carrots are well saturated with tho butter, pour in the stock, and simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Then put into another stewpan a small piece of butter; dredge in about a tablespoonful of flour; stir this over tho fire, and when of a nice brown colour, add the liquor that the carrots have been boiling in; let this just boil up, pour it over the carrots in tho other stewpan, and let them finish simmering until quite tender. Serve Tory hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is a favourite accompaniment to roast pork, sausages, &c., &c. Time.— About ^ hour. Average cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Siijjicient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable. — Young carrots ifrom April to July, old ones at any time. Cauliflowers ii la Sauce Blanche OABROTS, SUced (Entremets, or • to be served with the Second Course, as a Side-Dish). Ingredients.—5 or 6 large carrots, a large lump of sugar, 1 pint of weak stock, 3 oz. of fresh butter, salt to taste. Modt. —Scrape and wash the carrots, cut them into slices of an equal size, and boil them in salt and water until half done; drain them well, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and stock, and let them boil over a brisk fire. When reduced to a> glaze, add the fresh butter and a season- ing of salt; shake the stewpan about well, and when the butter is well mixed with the carrots, serve. There should be no sauce in the dish when it comes to table, but it should all adhere to the carrots. Time. — Altogether, f hour. Average cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to July, old ones at. any time. CARROTS, Stewed. Ingredients.—7 or 8 large carrots, 11 teacupful of broth, pepper and sait to taste, i teacupful of cream, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Scrape the carrots nicely ; half-boil, and slice them into a stewpan; add the broth, pepper and salt, and cream ; simmer till tender, and be careful the carrots are not broken. A few minutes before serving, mix a • little flour with about 1 oz. of butter; thicken the gravy with this ; let it just I boil up, and serve. Tiine.—About J hour to boil the carrots, about 20 minutes to cook them after they are sliced. A re- rage cost, 6d. to 8d. per bunch of 18. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable. —Young carrots from April to July, old i ones at any time. OATJLIPIiOWERS h la SAUCE;: : BLANCHE (Entremets, or Side*.' i dish, to be served withthe Second; i Course). Ingredients,—3 cauliflowers, ^ pint d' ( sauce blanche, or French meltod butter|- 3 oz. of butter, salt and water. Mode.-" Cleanse the cauliflowers as in the su^' ceeding recipe, and cut the stalks ofli flat at the bottom ; boil them until tenfc dcr in salt and water, to which the abovi t proportion of butter has been added, ant tji bo careful to take them up tho monieia! ^^ they are done, or they will break, an^'