THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 166 Jelly, Mouliiod with fresh Fruit is to tie it upon a hoop the exiict size of the outside of its nio\iih ; ami, to do this, scrings should be sewn round it at equiil distances. The jelly-bag may, of course, bo niiide any size; but one of twelve or foiu'teen inches deep, and seven or eitrht acniss the mouth, will be sufficient for ordin!\ry use. Tlie form of a jelly-bag is the fool's-cap. JELLY Moulded with fresh Fruit, or Macedoine de Fruits. Infjo-edients.—Rather more than lA pint of jelly, a few nice strawberries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any Afresh fruit that may be in season. Mode. —Have ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additioual quantity of sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit; pick off the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a little jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden; then an-ange the fruit JEtl/T MOULDED WITH CHERRIES. round the sides of the mould, recollect- ing that ti will be reversed when turned out; then pour in some more jelly to make the fruit adhere, and, when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If conve- nient, put it in ice until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiling water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefully out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly; Btrawherries, raspberries, grapes, cher- ries, and curranis are [>ut in raw. In ■winter, when iresh fruits are lot ob- tainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with preserved fruits or brandy cherries: these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly "^o verij clear, the beauty of the dis'i will be spoileil. It may bo garnished with the same fniit as ig laid in the jelly ; for instance, an open jelly with strawberries might have, piled Jelly of two Colours few of the same frn , or a little whiiijie - fin.' in the centre, a prettily arrans-ei cream might be substituted fir the fnii Time.—One layer of jelly should remain houi s in a very cool place, before auothc layer is added. Average cost, 2s. '> SulJicient, with fruit, to fill a qn: \ mould. Seasonable, with fresh fruit, fr.i ' Jime to October; with dried, at an time. JELLY, ORANGE, Moulded wit' slices of Orange. Ingredients.—1.\ pint of orange jellj \ 4 oranges, h pint of clarified syru{ Mode.—Boil ^ lb. of loaf sugar with pint of water until there is no scum lei (which must be carefully removed as fa.' as it rises), and carefully peel tbi oranges; divide them into thin sliceM^"' without breaking the thin skin, and pr these pieces of orange into the syruf where let them remain for about 5 ni nutcs ; then take them out, and use th synip for the jelly. When the orange are well drained, and the jelly is ncarl cold, pour a little of the latter into th bottom of the mould ; then lay in a fei pieces of orange ; over these pour a littl jelly, and when this is set, place anotbe layer of oranges, proceeding iu this mar ner until the mould is full. Put it i ice, or in a cool place, and, before turn ing it out, wrap a cloth round the moul for a minute or two, which has bee wrung out in boiling water. Time.— minutes to simmer the oranges. Averag cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient, with the slices o orange, to fill a quart mould. Seasonall from November to May, JELLY of Two Colours. Ingredients.—1^ pint of calf's-fee jellyj a few drops'of prepared cochine.il Mode.—Make 1.^ pint of calf's-feet jell" or, if wished m'ore economical, of c'" fied syrup and gelatine, flavoui-ing : Hi ie.il J JXLLT OF TWO COIOUBI. any way that may be preferred. Colon: one-half of the jelljr with a few di-ops o