THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 139 Fruit, to Bottlo Fresh puff, prick tbem. As soon as Lho water boils, oxtinj^uisl) tho firo, and let the bottles remain whero they are, to become cold. 'J'ho next day remove tho blatl- dcrs, and strew over tho fruit a thick layer of ponnded sugar; (it tho bottles with cork, and let each cork lie close at hand to its own bottlo. Hold for a few moments, in tho neck of tho bottle, two or three lighted matches, and when they have filled the bottlo neck with gas, and before they go out, remove them very quickly ; instantly cork tho bottle closely, and dip it in bottle-cement. Tiine.—^Al- together about 8 hours. FRUIT, to Bottle Fresh, with Sugar. (Very useful in Winter.) Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fruit; to each quart bottle allow ^ lb. of pound- ed sugar. 3Iode.—Let the fniit be ga- thered in dry weather. Pick it carefully, and drop it into clean and very dry quart glass bottles, sprinkling over it the above proportion of pounded sugar to each quart. Put the corks in the bottles, and place them in a copper of cold water up to their necks, with small hay-wisps round them, to prevent tho bottles from knocking together. Light the fire under, bring the water gradually to boil, and let it simmer gently until the fruit in the bottles is reduced nearly one third. Ex- tinguish tho fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is perfectly cold; then take them out, make the corks secui-e, and cover them with melted resin or wax. Time.—About A hour from the time the water commences to boil. FBUIT TURNOVERS Csuitablo for Pic-Nics). Ingredients.—PufT-pasto, any kind of fruit, 6ugi\r to taste. Mode.—Make some puff-paste by recipe ; roll it out to the thickness of about ^ inch, and cut it out in pieces of a circular form ; pile the fruit on half of the paste, sprinkle over some sugar, wet tho edges and turn the paste over. Press tho edges together, ornament them, and brush tho turnovers over with the white of an egg; sprinkle over sifted sugar, and bake on tins, in a brisk oven, for about 20 minutes. In- Etead of putting tho fruit in raw, it may be boiled down with a little sugar first, and then inclosed in thocnist; or jam, of any kind, may be substituted for fresh fruit. Time.—W minutes, Si^fjioient.— GherkinB, Pickled h lb. of puff-paste v/ill make a dozen tu: overs. iSeasonable at any time. t GAME, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookkky.] Ingridiei —The remains of cold game, 1 oui stuck with 3 cloves, a few whole p pers, a strip of lemon-peel, salt to tas-- thickening of butter and flour, 1 glasst port wine, 1 tablespoonful of letn< juice, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 \< of water or weak stock. Mode. —Cut i remains of cold game into joints, resej the best pieces, and the inferior o: and trimmings put into a stewpan w the onion, pepper, lemon-i)eel, salt, f water or weak stock; stew these about an hour, and strain the grav^ thicken it with butter and flour; add 1 wine, lemon-juice, and ketchup; layv the pieces of game, and let them grau do: ally warm through by the side of fire ; do not allow it to boil, or the gat 31 will bo hard. When on the poind simmering, serve, and garnish tho dii with sippets of toasted bread. Time Altogether 1^ hour. SecLSonahle fzi Atigust to March. Note.—Any kind of game may hashed by the above recipe, and the vour may bo varied by adding flavou vinegars, curry powder, &c. ; but cannot recommend these latter iiif dients, as a dish of game should tci have a gamy taste; and if too m: sauces, essences, &c., are added to gravy, they quite overpower and dest | the flavour the dish should possess GERMAN PUFFS. , Ingredients. —2 oz. of flour, 2 eggti pint of new milk, 2 oz. of melted but little salt and nutmeg. Mode.—hot 2 eggs bo well beaten, then mix all the : gredients well together, and heat tl up just before they are put into li cups half full for baking. Bake f- ' hour in a hot oven till tho puffs are ■ nice brown ; turn out on a flat dish, a little butter over each puff, and ( on it powdered sugar. Time.—i ht Average cost, 6d. Seasonable at time. QnERKINS, Pickled. Ingredients.—Salt and water, 1] bruised ginger .A oz. of whole pepper, J oz, of whole nllspico, 4