THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 63 Calf's Head, Hashed in the above proportion: let this simmer pently for hour, then strain it and put In the meat. When quite hot through, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, put in the beaten yolks of eggs, and lemon-juice; but be particular, after these two latter ingredients are added, that the sauce does not boil, or it •will curdle. Garnish with forcemeat balls and cui-Ied slices of broiled bacon. To insure the sauce being smooth, it is a good plan to dish the meat first, and then to add the eggs to the gravy: when these are set, the sauce may be poured over the meat. Twie.—Altogether, 1| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. CALF'S HEAD, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— The remains of a cold boiled calf's head, 1 quart of the liquor in which it was boiled, a faggot of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a strip of lemon-peel, 2 blades of pounded mace, salt and white pepper to taste, a very little cayenne, rather more than 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Cut the meat into neat slices, and put the bones and ti-immings into a stewpan with the above proportion of liquor that the head was boiled in. Add a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, 1 caiTot, a strip of lemon-peel, and 2 blades of pounded mace, and let these boil for 1 hour, or until the gravy is reduced nearly half. Strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with a little butter and flour, and add a flavouring of sherry, lemon-juice, and ketchup, in the above proportion; season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; put in the meat, let it gradxiaily warm through, but not boil more than two or three minutes. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and pieces of bacon rolled and toasted, placed alternately, and send it to table very hot. Time.—Altogether \\ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the remains of the head, 6d. Seasonable from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Moulded. [Cold Meat Cookert.1 Ingredients.— Tlie remains of a calf's head, some thin slices of ham or bacon, C or 8 eggs boiled hard, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, pepper, Calf's Liver mixed spice, and parsley, .J pint of good white gravy. Mode.~Cut the head "into thin slices. Butter a tin mould, cut the yolks of eggs in half, and put somo of them round the tin ; sprinkle some of the parsley, spico, &c., over it; then put in the head and the bacon in layers, adding occasionally more eggs and spice till the whole of the head is used. Pour in the gravy, cover the top with a thin paste of flour and water, and bake § of an hour. Take off the paste, and, when cold, turn it out. Ttme.—From ^ to 1 hour to bake the preparation. Season- able from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, to Carve. This is not altogether the most easy, looking dish to cut when it is put before I a carver for the first time; there is not much real difficulty in the operation, how- j ever, when the head has been attentively ' examined, and, after the manner of a phrenologist, you get to know its bumps, good and bad. In the first place, in- serting the knife quite down to the bone, cut sUces in the di- rection of the line 1 to 2; with' each of these should be helped a piece of what is sweetbread, cut in the direction of fn 3 to 4. The eye, and the flesh rouii!, aro favourite morsels with many, aud should be given to those at the table who are known to be the greatest connoisseurs. The jawbone being removed, there will then be found some nice lean ; and the palate, which is reckoned by some a tit- bit, lies under the head. On a separate dish there is always served the tong^ue and brains, and each guest should be asked to take some of these. CALF'S LIVER aux Fines HerbeS | and Sauce Piquante. Ingredients.—A calf's liver, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, including par- sley ; when liked, 2 minced shalots; 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-jnico, pepper and salt to tiste, \ pint water. Mode.—Procure a calf's liver as white as possible, and cut it into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip them in flour, and fry thorn of a good colour in a htd9 calf's nciD, called the thr. * i