THE DICTIONAllY OF COOKEllY. 226 Orange Marmalado, Pounded Averaffe cost, from 7d. to M. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Mako this in March or April. OBANGE MARMALADE, Pounded. Ingredients.—Weight and J in sugar to every lb. of oranges. Mode.—Cut some clear Seville oranges in 4 pieces, put all the juice and pulp into a basin, and take out the seeds and skins ; boil the rinds in hard water till tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times while boiling; drain them well, and pound them in a mortar; then put them into a pre- serving-pan with the juice and pulp, and their weight and h of sugar; boil rather more than ^ an hour. Time.—About 2 hours to boil the rinds, ^ an hour the marmalade. OBANGE PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients. — 6 oz. of stale sponge cake or bruised ratafias, 6 oranges, 1 pint of milk, 6 eggs, ^ lb. of sugar. Mode.— Binaise the sjponge cake or ratafias into fine crumbs, and pour upon them the milk, which should be boiling. Rub the rinds of 2 of the oranges on sugar, and add this, with the juice of the remainder, to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, stir them in, sweeten to taste, and put the mixture into a pie-dish pre- viously lined with pufF-paste. Bake for rather more than ^ hour; turn it out of the dish, sti*ew sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—Eatber more than ^ hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to May. ORANGE PUDDING, SevHle. Ingredients.—4 Seville oi-anges, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 12 almonds, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, 8 eggs. Mode.—Boil the oranges and chop them finely, taking out all the pips. Put the butter, tbo almonds, blanched and chopped, and Iho sugar, into a saucepan, to which add the orange pulp and the lemon-juice. Put it on a hot plate to warm, mixing all together until the but- ter is thoroughly molted. Turn the mixture out, let it get cold, then add the eggs, which should be well whipped. Put all into a balcing-disb, bordered with puff paste, and balce from j hour to 40 minutes, according to Iho heat of the Grange "Wine oven. Titiie.—i hour to 40 minutes Seasonable from November to ilay. ORANGE SALAD. Ingred.ienls.—6 oranges, | lb. of mu:, catel raisins, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, tablespoon fuls of brandy. Mode.—Pee 5 of the oranges; divide them into slice without breaking the pulp, and arrange them on a glass dish. Stone the raisins mix them with the sugar and brandy, anc mingle them with the oranges. Squeez' the juice of the other orange over th' whole, and the dish is ready for table A little pounded spice may be put ii when the flavour is liked; but this ingre dient must be added very sparingly Ava-age cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or ' persons. Seasonable from November t , May. ORANGE WINE, a very Simpl.,: and Easy Method of Making : i very Superior. Ingredients.—90 Seville oranges, 3 : lbs. of lump sugar, water. Mode. — Break up the sugai" into small pieces, am put it into a dry, sweet, 9-gallon cask placed in a cellar or other storehouse where it is intended to be kept. Hav . ready close to the cask two large pans o i wooden keelers, into one of vrhich pu ' the peel of the oranges pared quite thin and into the other the pulp after th': juice has been squeezed from it. Straii: the juico through a piece of double mus lin, and put into the cask with the sugar Then pour about \h gallon of co!. sirring water on both the peels and th pulp ; let it stand for 24 hours, and the: strain it into the cask ; add more wate i to the peels and pulp when this is done and repeat the same process every da ; for a week : it should take about a wee!: to fill up the cask. Be careful to appoi tion the quantity as nearly as possibl to the seven days, and to stir the content of the cask each day. On the third da after tho cask is full—that is, tho tent day after tho commencement of making— the cask may bo securely bunged dowr i This is a very simple and easy methoc and the wine made according to it wi be pronounced to be most excellenr There is no troublesome boiling, and a fermentation takes place iu the ca.4 When tho above directions are attoudo to, tho wine cannot fail to be good. ] should bo bottled in 8 or 9 mouths, an