THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 236 Partridge Soup disgusting and offensive. Tboy may be trussed with or without the head, the latter mode being now considered the most fashionable. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge carefully inside and out; cut ofif the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back ; bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the side-bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. When the head is left on, it should be brought round and fixed on to the point of the skewer. Mode.—When the bird is firmly and plumply trussed, roast it before a nice bright fire; keep it well basted, and a few minutes before serving, flour and froth it well. Dish it, and serve with gravy and bread sauce, and send to table hot and quickly. A little of the gravy should be poured over the bird. Tivie.— 25 to 35 minutes. Average cost. Is. Qd. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient.—2 for a dish. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. PARTBIDGE SOUP. Ingredients.—2 partridges, 3 slices of lean ham, 2 shred onions, 1 head of celery, 1 large carrot, and 1 turnip cut into any fanciful shapes, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode. —Cut the partridges into pieces, and braise them in the butter and ham until quite tender ; then take out the legs, wings, and breast, and set them by. Keep the backs and other trimmings in the braise, and add the onions and celery; any remains of cold game can be put in, and 3 pints of stock. Simmer slowly for 1 hour, strain it, and skim the fat off as clean as possible; put in the pieces that were taken out, give it one boil, and skim again to have it quite clear, and add the sugar and seasoning. Now simmer the cut carrot and turnip in 1 pint of stock; when quite tender, put them to tho partridges, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 2s. oris. 6rf. per quart. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—The meat of the partridges may be pounded with a crumb of a French roll, and worked with tho soup through a sieve. Servo with stewed celery cut in slices, and put xa th« tiireen. Partridges, Hashed BOAST PABTBIDGE. PARTBIDGES, to Carve. There are several ways of carving this most familiar game bird. The °more usual and sum- mary mode is to carry the knife sharply along the top of tha breast-bone o( the bird, and cut it quite through, thus dividing it into two pre- cisely equal and similar parts, in the same manner as carving a pigeon. Another plan is to cut it into three pieces; viz., by severing a small wing and leg on either side from the _ body, by following the line 1 to 2 in the upper woodcut; thus making 2 helpings, when the breast will remain for a third plate. The most elegant manner is that of thrusting back the body from the legs, and then cutting through the breast in the direction shown by the hue 1 to 2 : this plan will give 4 or more small helpings. A little bread- sauce should be served to each guest. PARTRIDGES, Hashed, or Salmi de Perdrix. Ingredients. — 3 young partridges, 3 shallots, a slice of lean ham, 1 carrot, 3 or 4 mushrooms, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 cloves, 6 whole peppers, 3 pint of stock, 1 glass of sherry or Maaeira, a small lump of sugar. Mode.—After the partridges are plucked and drawn, roast them rather underdone, and cover them with paper, as they should not be browned; cut them into joints, take off the skin from the wings, legs, and breasts ; put these into a stewpan, cover them up, and set by until the gravy is ready. Cut a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them, with tho carrots sliced, the shallots, mushrooms, herbs, cloves, and pepper, into a stewjmn ; fry them lightly in a little butter, pour in the stock, add the bones and trimmine: from the partridges, and simmer for i hour. Strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim off every particle of fat; put it to the legs, wings, and breasts, add a glass of sherry or Madeira and a small lump of sugar, let all gradually warm througa ha the side of tho fire, and when on tue