THE DICTION All ? OP COOKERY. 281 Haspborry Jam sugar with tho brandy ; whisk tho mix- ture well until nearly cold, put it into a well-oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till perfectly set. Kaspbcrry jam may be substituted for tho jelly; but must be molted, and rubbed through a siovo, to free it from seeds: in summer, the juice of the fresh fruit may bo used, by slightly mashing it with a wooden spoon, and sprinkling sugar over it; the juice that flows from the fruit should then be used for mixing with the cream. If the colour should not be very good, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve its appearance. Time. —\ hour to boil the cream and isinglass. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, and the best isinglass, 3s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould with fresh finiit in July. Seasonable, with jelly, at any time. Note.—Strawberry cream may be made in precisely the same manner, substi- tuting strawbeiTy jam or jelly for the raspberry. EASPBEEBY JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of raspber- ries allow 1 lb. of sugar, \ pint of red- currant juice. Mode.—Let the fruit for this preserve be gathered in fine weathor, and used as soon after it is picked as possible. Take off the stalks, put the raspberries into a preserving-pan, break them well with a wooden spoon, and let them boD for | hom% keeping them well stirred. Then add the currant-juic3 and sugar, and boil again for | hour. Skim the jam well after the sugar is added, or the preserve will not bo clear. The addition of the currant-juice is a very great improvement to this preserve, as it gives it a piquant taste, which the flavour of the raspberries seems to re- quire. Time.—| hour to sirhmer the fmit without the sugar; ^ hour after it is added. Average cost, from 6d. to &d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow about ] pint of fruit to fill a 1 lb. pot. Season- able in July and August. EASPBEKBY JELLY. Ingredients.—To each pint of juice allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Lo* tho raspberries be freshly gathered, quite ripe, and picked from the stalks; put them into a largo jar, after breaking the fruit a little with a wooden spoon, and placo this jar, covered, in a saucepan of Doihng water. When thejuico is wcU Eataflas drawn, v/hich will bo in from J to 1 houi ■ r strain the fruit through a fine hair sicv B or cloth ; measure the juice, and to ever pint allow the above proportion of loa. i sugar. Put the juice and sugar into > preserving-pan, place it over the fire, an t boil gently until the jelly thickens v. he;' t a little is poured on a plate ; carefull f remove all the scum as it rises, pour th i jelly into small pots, cover down, am j keep in a dry place. This jelly answer- for making raspberry cream, and fq • flavouring various sweet dishes, when, i): ,- winter, the fresh fruit is not obtainable Time.—J to 1 hour to draw the juice- i A vcrage cost, from 9cZ. to Is. per lb. pot I Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2 quarts o fruit should j'ield 1 pint of juice. Season j able.—This should be made in July o August. EASPBEEEY VINEGAE. f Ingredients.—To every 3 pints of \h> !' best vinegar allow 4h pints of freshly gathered raspberries; to each pint o ,V liquor allow 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar ^ 1 wineglassful of brandy. 3fode.—Le J; the raspberries be freshly gathered, picl. them from the stalks, and put 1.4 pint o ^. them into a stone jar ; pour 3 pints o > ' the best vinegar over them, and let thena ^ remain for 24 hours; then strain thn ; liquor over another pint of fresh rasp;.' berries. Let them remain another 2< ' hoiirs, and the following day repeat thi process for the third time ; then draii i off the liquor without pressing, and pasi-i it through a jelly-bag (previously wettec J with plain vinegar) into a stone jar. Adc | t: to every pint of the liquor 1 lb. p pounded loaf sugar ; stir them together and, when the sugar is dissolved, cotl the jar, set it upon tho fire in a saucepni of boiling water, and let it boil for a- hour, removing the scum as fast as » rises ; add to each pint a glass of brandy bottle it, and seal the corks. This is n: excellent drink in cases of fevers anc > colds: it should bo diluted with cole f 1. water, according to the taste or require ment of tho patient. Time.—To ! < boiled 1 hour. Average cost. Is. pci pint. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Sta soyiaUe.—Make this in July or August when raspberries are most plentiful. EATAPIAS. j t Jnqrcdients.—.J lb. of sweet almonds,-^ l: \ lb! of bitter ones, J lb. of sifted loa!