1 Philosophy of Housekeeping, putting four ogg-cups to warm ; she should also make the tea—if that be done in the kitchen; if an urn is used, she should fill that and send it up to the breakfast-parlour by the housemaid, when the mistress will make it herself. 313. She will then place on a tray the hot dish, the eggs in the egg-cups on a dish with four egg-spoons, the toast and the teapot, and give it to the housemaid, who will take it to the breakfast-parlour. 314. The housemaid will wait a few moments in the parlour to hand the plates, &c. ; after that— THE COOK ATTENDS THE BREAKFAST-PABLOTJIl, while— THE HOUSEMAID GOES TO THE BEDKOOMS, to open aU the windows and turn down the beds. 315. She should open out and separate all the bedclothes, placing them over the ends of the bedsteads and the backs of the chairs to air. Then, while the family are finishing breakfast, the servants should take theirs; and both parlour and kitchen breakfasts being concluded— | THE COOK "WILL BEMOVE THE BREAKFAST THINGS, i After which, she should bring up a hand-brush and dustpan, and sweep up the crumbs. She should also arrange the fire, sweep up the hearth, and put the chairs in their places. She will then— WASH UP THE BREAKFAST THINGS. 31G. For this she will require a pail of hot water, two tea-towels, and a coarse dish-cloth. These latter should be all quite clean and dry. She should fii-st remove the tea-leaves from the teapot, and put them aside carefully for sweeping. She should then rinse out the teapot, if it be of metal, and put it aside to be rubbed up with the rest of the plate; if it be china, it should be rinsed both outside and inside, and left to drain, 317. Then wash the cups and saucers and all the rest of the ware, except the greasy plates and dishes, and leave them to drain. 318. Then wash the greasy plates and dishes, adding some fresh hot water to the pail, 319. Then the knives. These should not bo dipped entirely into the water. The blades should bo held down iu it for a short time; the handles should not I