xlviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 300. Tho bread-basket should be free from crusts and crumbs, and there should not be less than a loaf; 3 oz. of butter, nicely rolled in pats, will be sufficient, and half a pint of milk. 301. The milk and cream should be placed at the right-hand side of the breakfast-cups, where the sugar-basin will be placed also when it is taken from the cellaret. The bread should be at the side of tho table where the bread-knife was placed, the butter where the butter-knife. The cold meat should be put on tho sideboard. 802. Whilst the housemaid is thus engaged— THE cook: lights the kitchen fike. 303. She should first clean out of the fireplace the remains of tho fire of the night before, then thoroughly brush all the range. For lighting the fire she will require some paper, a dozen sticks of fii-ewood, a few lumps of round coal, some good cinders, and a few matches. She should first place the paper at the bottom of the grate, but to the front near the bars; then most of the firewood, the sticks placed lengthways, one end resting on the second bar, the other at the back of the bottom of the grate, leaving a little space between each. She should then strike a match and set fire to the paper, and as it blazes up, and the wood catches, she should put on the coals and cinders lightly, and the rest of the sticks among them. If the paper burns away before the sticks have caught, she should replace it with come more paper ; but when the sticks have caught with a few of the coals and cinders, then as the fire lights up it will not sink. 304. The fire being lighted, the cook should clear away all the ashes and cinders, rub up with a leather the bright parts of the range, and wash the hearth ; when washed quite clean, but while it is still wet, she should rub it with a piece of hearthstone to whiten it, and place the kettle, filled with water, on the fire to boil. She should then thoroughly dust the kitchen, and put everything straight and in order; and having removed to tho scullery the brushes, the leather, the blacklead, the pail, flannel, brick, and whatever else she may have used with the fireplace, she should— CLEAN THE GENTLEMEN'S BOOTS AND SHOES. 305. For this she will require some blacking and three brushes—one hard, one soft, and one medium. She should first, with tho bard brush, brush ofi"the mud—but if tho boots be very muddy she must scrapo it off with an old knife round tho edges of the soles, being very careful, however, not to touch tho upper leather- then with the soft brush lay on tho blacking, and when that has dried on the boot polish it off with the medium brush. Each of the brushes should be used for its own particular purpose only. The cook then washes her hands, and proceeds to