398 Philosophy of Housekeeping. beat the whole well, until ovorythinj? is thoroughly mixed. Put the dough into a buttered tin, and bake the cake from li to 2 hours. SPONGE-CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf-sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf-sugar, and the weight of 5 in good dry flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, put them into a saucepan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire until milk-warm, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a bnsin, add the grated lemon-rind, mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stifif froth, stir them to the flour, &c., and beat the cake well for 5 hour. Put it into a buttered mould strewn with a little fine- sifted sugar, and bake the cake in a quick oven for 1| hour. Care must be taken that it is put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of almonds instead of the grated lemon-rind. OPEN JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM. Ingredients.—pint of jelly, h pint of cream, 1 glass of sherry, sugar to taste. Mode.—Make the above proportion of calf's-feet or isinglass jeUy, colouring and flavouring it in any way that may be preferred; soak a mould, open in the centre, for about I hour in cold water ; fill it with the jelly, and let it remain in a cool place until perfectly set; then turn it out on a dish, fiU the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with sheriy and sweetened with pounded sugar : pile this cream high in the centre, and serve. The jelly shovdd be made of rather a dark colour, to contrast nicely with the cream. JELLY MOULDED WITH PBESH FRUIT, or MACEDOINE DE FRUITS. Ingredients.—Rather more than 1^ pint of jelly, a few nice strawberries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any fresh fruit that may be in season. Mode.—lla.ye ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additional quantity of sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit; pick ofi" the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a Uttle jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden ; then arrange the fruit round the sides of the mould, recollecting that it tcill be reversed wlun turned out; then pour in some more jelly to make the fruit adhere, and when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If convenient, put it in ice