THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 843 Toast-and-Water that they should be piled lightly on the dish they arc intended to bo served on. IIo says that by cutting through 4 or 5 slices at a time, all the butter is squeezed out of the upper ones, while the bottom one is swimming in fat liquid. It is highly essential to \;so good butter for making this dish, TOAST-ATTD-WATER. Ingredients.—A slice of bread, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode.—Cut a slice from a stale loaf (a piece of hard crust is better than anything else for the pur- pose), toast it of a nice brown on every side, but do not allow it to hum or hlachen. Put it into a jug, pour the boiling water over it, cover it closely, and let it remain until cold. When strained, it will be ready for use. Toast-and-water should always be made a short time before it is required, to enable it to get cold: if drunk in a tepid or lukewarm state, it is an exceedingly disagreeable beverage. If, as is sometimes the case, this drink is wanted in a hurry, put the toasted bread into a jug, and only just cover it with the boiling water ; when this is cool, cold water may be added in the proportion required, the toast-and-water strained ; it will then be ready for use, and is more expeditiously prepared than by the above method. TOAST SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — Thin cold toast, thin slices of bread-and-butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. — Place a very thin piece of cold toast between 2 slices of thin bread-and-butter in the form of a sandwich, adding a seasoning of pepper and salt. This sandwich may be varied by adding a little pulled meat, or very fine slices of cold meat, to the toast, and in any of these,forms will bo found very tempting to the appetite of an invalid. TOFFEE, Everton. Ingredicnls.— 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of water, ^ lb. of butter, 6 drops of essence ot lemon. Mode.—Put the water and sugar into a brass pan, and beat the butter to a cream. When the sugar is dissolved, add the butter, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it sets, when a little is poured on to a buttered dish ; and just before tho toffee is done, add the essence of lemon. Butter a dish or tin, pour on it tho mixture, and w^:cn cool, it will Tomato Sauce for Keeping easily separate from the dish. Buttei' Scotch, an excellent thing for coughs- is made with brown, instead of whit sugar, omitting the water, and flavours with \ oz. of powdered ginger. It i. made in the same manner as toffee Time.—18 to 35 minutes. Average cost IQd. Sufficient to make a lb. of tolfce, TOMATO SAUCE for Keeping (Excellent). Ingredients.—To every quart of tomato- pulp allow 1 pint of cayenne vinegar, ^ oz. of shalots, J oz. of garlic, peeled and cut in slices ; salt to taste. To every six quarts of liquor, 1 pint of soy, 1 pint of anchovy-sauce. Mode.—Gather the tomatoes quite ripe ; bake them in au slow oven till tender ; rub them through: a sieve, and to every quart of pulp add cayenne vinegar, shalots, garlic, and salt, in the above proportion; boil the whole together till the garlic and shalots ares quite soft; then rub it through a sieve, put it ngain into a saucepan, and, to every six quarts of the liquor, add 1 pintt of^soy and the same quantity of anchoiy- sauce, and boil altogether for about 20 minutes ; bottle off for use, and carefully seal or resin the corks. This will keep good for 2 or 3 years, but will be fit for use in a week. A useful and less expen- sive sauce may be made by omitting tho anchovy and soy. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Seasonable.—Make this from the middle of September to the end of October. TOMATO SAUCE for Keeping (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 dozen tomatoes, 2 tea- spoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 head of garlio chopped tine, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, 1 dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar (.% small quantity of cayenne may be sub- stituted for this). Mode.—Choose ripe tomatoes, put them into a stone jar, and stand them in a cool oven until quite tender; whan cold, take the skins and stalks from them, mix the pulp with tlie liquor which is in tho jar, but do not strain it; add all tho other ingredients, mix well together, and put it into well- sealed bottles. Stored away in a cool, dry place, it will keeji good for years. It is ready for use as soon as made, but tho flavour is better after a week or two. Should it not appear to keep, turn it out, and boil it up ivitb a little additional