THE DICTIONARY OP COOtERY. 188 Ginger Creum and in 3 da^s the gingcr-beer will bo fit for uso. I'or somo tastes, the above proportion of sugar may be found rather too largo, when it may bo diininiKhed ; but the liccr will not keep so long f^ood. Averai'B ccsl for this quantity, 2s. ; or i,d. per bottle. Sufficient to fill 4 dozen ginger-beer bottles. Seasonalle.—Tlna should bo made during the summer months. GUSTGER CBEAM. Ingredients.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of preserved ginger, 2 dessertspoonfuls of syrup, sifted sugar to taste, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.— Slice the ginger finely; put it into a basin with tho syrup, the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and the cream ; mix these ingredients well together, and stir them over the tire for about 10 minutes, or until the mixture thickens ; then take it off the fire, whisk till nearly cold, sweeten to taste, add the isinglass, which should be melted and strained, and serve the cream in a glass dish. It may be garnished .vith slices of pre- served giuger or candied citron. Time. —About 10 minutes to stir the cream over the fire. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2>s. (id. Sitfficieni for a good-sized dish. Seasonable at any time. GIISTGEB, Preserved, Comes from tho West Indies. It is made by scalding the roots when they are green and full of sap, then peeling them in cold water and putting them into jars, with a rich syrup ; in which state wo receive them. It should bo chosen of a deep yellow colour, with a little transparency. What is dark-co- loured, fibrous, and stringy, is not good. Ginger roots, fit for preserving and in size jqual to West Indian, have been pro- duced in the Royal Agricultural Garden in Edinburgh. GINGER PUDDING. Ingredients.—.J lb. of (lour, \ lb. of suet, 4 'b. of moist sugar, 2 largo tea-, spoonfuls of grated ginger. Mode.— Shred tho suet very fine, mix it with tho llour, sugar, and ginger; stir all well together; butter a basin, and put tho mixture in dry; tie a cloth over, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Ave- rage cost, 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 per- sons. Statonalle at uuy timo. Gingerbread, White £ GINGER WINE. Ingredients.—To 9 gallons of wate allow 27 lbs. of loaf sugar, 9 lemons, 1. oz. of bruised ginger, 3 tablespoonfuIs c yeast, 2 lbs. of raisins stoned and chop pod, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.—Bo'. together for 1 hour in a cojipcr (let i previously bo well scoured and be.-uit fully clean) the water, sugar, lemon-rind. and bruised ginger; remove every pajg / tide of scum as it rises, and when thi liquor is sufliciently boiled, put it into large tub or pan, as it must not remaiu in the copper. When nearly cold, adii tho yeast, which must be thick and vew fresh, and, the next day, put all in dry cask with the strained lemon-juic and chopped raisins. Stir the wine ever day for a fortnight; then add th brandy, stop the cask down by degree and in a few weeks it will be fit to bottli Average cost, 2s. per gallon. Sufficit to make 9 gallons of wine. SeasonuUe.- The best time for making this wine either in March or September. Note. — Wine made early in March wi be fit to bottle in June. GINGERBREAD, Thick. Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, | lb. butter, ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar, '. lb. of flour, 1 oz. of ginger, h oz. ground allspice, 1 teaspoon I ul of carWi at nato of soda, ^ pint of warm milk, oeg^ ifii Mode.—Put tho tlour into a basiu, wui ' the sugar, ginger, and alls|iice; mt these togeiher ; warm the butter, add it, with the treacle, to the otlii ingredients. Stir well; make the mi just warm, dissolve the carbonate of so in it, and mix tho whole into a ni smooth dough with the eggs, whi should bo previously well whisked ; po tho niixiuro into a buttered tin, a' bake it from ^ to 1 hour, or longt should the gingerbread bo very thic Just before it is done, brush tho t over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, and put it back int oven to finish baking. Time.—^ to J hour. A verage cost, \s, per squaie. S , sonahle at any time. , Up GINGERBREAD, White. Ingredients.—l"lb. of (lour, }. Ih^ butter, i 111. of loaf sugar, the i lemon, 1 oz. of ground ginger, 1 grated, j tc.aspoonful of carbi soda, 1 gill of milk. Mode.—!•