232 THE DICTIONARY OP dOOfcEET. Oysters, to Keep when liked, a little nutmeg; Uot lard. Mode.—Scald the oysters ia tiicir own liquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth to drain thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour with them, add the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seasoning, and put the oysters in the batter. Make some lard hot in a deep frying-pan, put in the oysters, one at a time ; when done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and dish them on a napkin. Fried oysters are frequently used for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few bread crumbs should be added to the flour. Time.— 5 or 6 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is. lOcZ. Seasonable from Sep- tember to April. Sufficient for 3 persons, OYSTERS, to Keep. Put them in a tub, and cover them with salt and water. Let them remain for 12 hours, when they are to. be taken out, and allowed to stand for another 12 hours without water. If left without water every alternate 12 hours, they will be much better than if constantly kept in it. Never put the same water twice to them. OYSTEHS, Pickled. Ingredients. —100 oysters ; to each h pint of vinegar, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 12 black peppercorns. Mode.—Get the oysters in good condition, open them, place them in a saucepan, and let them Bimraer in their own liquor for about 10 minutes very gently; then take them out one by one, and place them in a jar, and cover them, when cold, with a pickle made as fol- lows :—Measure the oyster-liquor ; add to it the same quantity of vinegar, with mace, lemon-peel, and pepper in the above proportion, and boil it for 6 mi- nutes ; when cold, pour over the oysters, and tie them down very closely, as con- tact with the air spoils them. Seasonable from September to April. jf^oie,—Put this pickle away in small jars ; because, directly ono is opened, its contents should immediately bo eaten, as they soon spoil. The pickle should cot bo kept more than 2 or 3 months. OYSTERS, Scalloped. Jiigredi'ents.—Oyatera, say 1 pint, 1 oz. butter, Hour, 2 tablespoonfuls of white Oysters, Stewed stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; pepper and salt to taste; bread crumbs, oiled butter. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor free from grit. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan ; when melted, dredge in suflScient Hour to dry it up ; add the stock, cream, and strained liquor, and give one boil. Put in the oysters and seasoning; let them gradually heat through, but not boil. Have ready the scallop-shells buttered ; lay in the oysters, and as much of the liquid as they will hold; cover them over with bread crumbs, over which drop a little oiled butter. Brown them in the oven, or before the fire, and serve quickly, and very hot. Time.—Alto- gether, ^ hour. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. OYSTERS, Scalloped. Prepare the oysters as in the preceding recipe, and put them in a scallop-shell or saucer, and between each layer sprinkle over a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; place small pieces of butter over, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Put sufficient bread crumbs on the top to make a smooth surface, as the oysters should not be seen. Time.—About ^ hour. Average cost, 8s. 2d. Seasonable from September to April. OYSTERS, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 pint of oyster?, 1 oz. of butter, flour, J pint of cream ; cayenne and salt to taste; 1 blade of pounded mace. Mode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, bear i tliem, and strain the liquor; put tho butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufRcicnt flour to dry it up, add the oj'ster-liquor and mace, and stir it over a sharp fire with a wooden spoon ; when it comes to a boil, add the crsam, oysters, and seasoning. Let all simmer for 1 or 2 minutes, but not longer, or the oysters would harden. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons, or toasted sippets of broad. A small piece of lemon-peel boiled with the oyster-liquor, and taken out before the cream is added, will be found an improvement. r/wiC—Altogether 15 mi- nutes. Average cost for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Seasonable from September to Sufficient for 6 persona.