THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Custard Pudding, Eaked and cat butter, ducks' eygs should be used, when obtainable; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and BO many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks' eggs to the pint of milk making a delicious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should bo substituted for tho milk, and double tho quantity of eggs used to those mentioned, omitting tlie whites. Time.—^ hour to inl'use the lemon-rind, about lO minutes to stir the custard. Average cost, Sd. Sujjicient to hli 8 custai-d-glasses. Seasonable at any time. CUSTARD PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—1^ pint of milk, the rind of \ lemon, ^ lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let this inluse for about h hour, or until the milk is well flavoured; whisk tho eggs, yolks and whites; pour the milk to ihem, stirring all the while ; then have ready a pie-dish, lined at the edge with paste ready bukcd ; strain tho custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg over tho top, and bake in a very slow oven for about ^ hour, or rather longer. The flavour of this pudding may bo varied by substituting bitter almonds for the lemon-rind ; and it may be very much enriched by using half cream and half milk, and doubling the quantity of eggs. Time.—h to ^ hour. Average cost, 'dd. .UniJicienl for i) or G persons. Seasonable at any time. i\oie.—This pudding is usually served cold with fi'uit tarts. CUSTABD PUDDIlSrO, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, 1 table- Rpoouful of flour, 4 eggs, flavouring to taste. Mode.—Flavour the milk by infusing in it a little lemon-rind or cin- namon ; whisk the eggs, stir tho flour gradually to these, and pour over them the milk, and stir tho mixture well. Jiutter a basin that will exactly hold it; put in the custard, and tie a floured cloth over ; plunge it into boiling water, and turn it about for a lew minutes, to prevent tho Hour from settling in one j.art. lioil it slowly for h hour; turn If. out of tho basin, and serve. Tho piidding may bo g.irni.-licd with rcd- minua jelly,' and sweet sauce may be bfut to tai'lu with ir, 'J' nie.—.^ Iinir. Custard Tartlets Average cost. Id. Si'JJicicnt for 5 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. CUSTARD SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- dings or Tarts. Ingredients.—A pint of milk, 2 eggs 3 oz. of pomidccf sugar, 1 tablef:p"ouful of brandy. Mode.—i'ut tho miik in a very clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk and pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; keep stirring well until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Sen'e the sauce in a tureen, stir in the brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce may be made very much nicer by using cream instead of milk; but the above recipe will be found quite good enough for ordinary purposes. Average cost, Gd. per pint. Sutjicient, this quantity, for 2 fi-uit tarts, or 1 pudding, CUSTARD TARTLETS, or Fan- chonnettes. Ingredients.—For the custard, 4 eggs, f pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls of flour, flavouring to taste ; the whites of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of pounded sugar. , Mode.— Well beat the eggs; stir to them the milk, the butter, which should be beaten to a cream, the sugar, and flour ; mix these ingredients well together, put them into a very clean saucepan, and bring them to tho simmering point, but do not allow them to boil. Flavour with essence of vanilla, bitter almonds, lemon, grated chocolate, or any flavouring ingredient that may be preferred. Lino some round tartlet-pans with good puff-paste; fill them with tho custard, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes; then tako them out of the j-ans ; let: them cool, and in the meantime whisk, the whites of tho eggs to a stiff froth; stir into this tho pounded sugar, and-. sprca<l smoothly over the lai tlcts a little' of this mixture. Put them ia the oven again to ^ct tho icing, but be p.ii-ticular- that they do not scorch; when the icing looks crisp, they arcdouo. Arrangtj thoni, piled high iii tbo ccntix?, on av.-liito iio'ikin, a-.id "garnii-h tin dirh, aiid in bci-rccn tV.e tnrtlefs, v.-iih .c'vii": rf liri^^Lt. jelly, or very (irn ly-ma !c pr-j- i.r. 0. yV/';;f.-.'.'l mi:!-.;;cs *ro h\ko l>i«i