8 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Apple Tart APPLE TART (Creamed). Mode.—Make an apple tart by the preceding recipe, with the exception of omitting the icing. When the tart is baked, cut out the middle of the lid or crust, leaving a border nil round the dish. Fill up with a nicely-made boiled cus- tard, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the pie is ready for table. This tart is usually eaten cold; is rather an old-fashioned dish, but, at the same time, extremely nice. Time.'—\ to ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE TRIPLE (a Supper Dish). Ingredients.—10 good-sized apples, the rind of h lemon, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, pint of milk, h, pint of cream, 2 eggs, whipped cream. Mode. — Peel, core, and cut the apples into thin slices, and put them into a sauce- pan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, the sugar, and minced lemon-rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp the apples through a sieve ; if they ehould not be quite sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. St-ir together the milk, cream, and eggs, with a .'ittle sugar, over the lire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to reach the boiling-point. When thick, take it off the fire ; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip some cream with sugar, lemon-peel, &c., the same as for other trifles; heap it high over the custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be garnished as fancy dictates, with strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, &c. Time. —From 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples ; 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average cost, 2.5., with cream at Is. Qd. per pint. Sufficient for a moderate-sized trifle. Seasonable irom August to March. APPLES h la Portugaise. Ingredients.—8 good boiling apples, I pint of water, 6 oz. of sugar, a Inyer of apple marmalade, 8 preservoil cher- ries, garnishing of apricot jam. MoUe.— Peel the apples, and, with a scoop, take out the cores; boil the fruit in the above proportion of sugar and water, without being too much done, and take (jare the apples do not break. Have ready Apples and Rice some apple mai-maladc; cover the bottom of a glass disb with this, level it, and lay the apples in a sieve to drain; pi'o them neatly on the marmalade, raisiri/ them in tho centre, and place a preservefi cherry in the middle of each. Gambh with strips of candied citron or apricot jam, and the dish is ready for table. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apj:)les. Average cost, Is. Zd. Suf- ficient for 1 entremets. Seasonable from August to Mai'ch. APPLES, Buttered (Sweet Entre- mets). Ingredients. — Apple marmalade or 7 good boiling apples, ^ pint of water, 6 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of butter, a little apricot jam. Mode.—Pare the apples, and take out the cores with a scoop ; boil up the sugar and water for a few minutes ; then lay in the apples and sim- mer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break. Hava ready sufficient marmalade made by the recipe for Apple Marmalade, fla- voured with lemon, to cover the bottom of the dish ; arrange the apples on this with a piece of butter placed in each, and in between them a few spoonfuls of apricot jam or marmalade ; put the dish in the oven for 10 minutes, then sprinkle over the top sifted sugar, and either brown it before tho fire or with a salamander, and serve hot. The syrup that the apples were boiled in should bo saved for another time. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently, 10 minutes in the oven. Averagt cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 1 entremets. APPLES and RICE (a Plain Dish). Ingredients.—8 good-sized apples, 3oz. of butter, the rind of h lemon minced very fine, 6 oz. of rice, 1^ pints of milk, sugar to taste, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 6 tablcsiwonfuls of apricot jam. Mode.—Peel the apples, halve them, and take out the cores ; put them into ft stowpan with the butter, and strew suffi- cient sifted sugar over to sweeten thcni nicely, and add tho minced lemon-peel. Stow the apples very gently until tender, taking care they do not break. Boil tho rice, with tho milk, sugar, and nutmeg, until soft, and, when thoroughly done, dish it, piled high in the centre; arringe the apples on it, warm the apricot jam,