196 May, Things in Season Saturday.—1. Vermicelli. 2. Rurap- stoiik pudding, lamb cutlets, and cucum- bers. 3. Macaroni. Sunday.—1. Boiled salmon and lobster or caper sauce. 2. Roast lamb, mint sauce, asparagus, potatoes. 3. Plura- pudding, gooseberry tart. Monday.—1. Salmon warmed in re- mains of lobster sauce and garnished with crotltons. 2. Stowed knuckle of veal and rice, cold lamb and dressed cucum- ber. 3. Slices of pudding warmed, and served with sugar sprinkled over. Baked I'ice pudding. Tuesday.—1. Roast ribs of beef, horse- I'adish sauce, Yorkshire pudding, spinach and potatoes. 2. Boiled lemon pud- ding. ^Vednesday.—1. Fried soles, melted butter. 2. Oold beef and di'csseJ cucum- ber or salad, veal cutlets and bacon. 3. Baked plum-pudding. Thursday.—1. Spring soup. 2. Calfs liver and bacon, broiled beef-bones, spinach and potatoes. 3. Gooseberiy tart. Friday.—1. Roast shoulder of mutton, baked potatoes, onion sauce, spinach. 2. Currant dumplings. Saturday.—1. Broiled mackerel, fennel sauce or plain melted butter. 2. Rump- steak pie, hashed mutton, vegetables. 3. Baked arrowroot pudding. MAY, Things in Season, Fish.—Carp, chub, crabs, crayfish, dory, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, red and gray mullet, prawns, salmon, shad, smelts, soles, trout, turbot. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poidlry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, pullets, rabbits. Vegetables.—Asparagus, beans, early cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cresses, cucumbers, lettuces, pease, early pota- toes, salads, sea-kale,—various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, green apricots, cher- ries, currants for tarts, gooseberries, melons, pears, rhubarb, strawberries. MAYOlSriSrAISE, a Sauce or Salad- Dressing lor cold Chicken, Meat, and other cold Dishes. Innrcdient.i.—Tho yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 tablo- BpoonfulH of vinegar, salt and white pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of white BtocK, 2 tablespoonfuls of crepra. Mode, Meringues —Put the yolks of tlie eggs into a basi ' with a seasoning of pepper and salt; ha> ■ ■ ready tho above quantities of oil ai vinegar, in separate vessels; add the ■ very gradually to the eggs; contini stirring and rubbing the mixture with wooden spoon, as herein consists tl ; secret of having a nice smooth eauci It cannot be stirred too frequently, an it should be made in a very cool placi - or, if ice is at hand, it should be mixe over it. When the vinegar and oil ai well incorporated with tho eggs, add tli stock and cream, stirring all tho tim< and it will then be ready for use. For a fish Mayonnaise, this sauce ma be coloured with lobster-spawn, pounded : and for poultry or meat, where variety i. desired, a little parsley-juice may b used to add to its appearance. Cucum ber, tarragon, or any other flavourc ■ vinegar, may be substituted for plain . •-- where they are liked. Average cost, fo ■ this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a smaLl salad. Note.—Tn mixing the oil and vinega:- with the eggs, put in first a few drops o oil, and then a few drops of vinegaw never adding a large quantity of citbeia at one time. By tliis means, you can bfe more certain of the sauce not curdlingi Patience and practice, let us add, an.T two essentials for making this sauwJ good. MELONS. This fruit is rarely preseiTed or cooker in any way, but is sent whole to table i on a dish garnished with leaves oi i flowers, as fancy dictates. A border o: I any other kind of small fruit, arrangcc I round the melon, has a pretty efiect, J the colour of the former contrasting | nicely with the melon. Plenty _ol | pounded sugar should bo served with it; i and tho fruit should be cut lengthwise, i| in moderate-sized slices. In America, it \ is frequently eaten with pepper and salt 4 Average co5<.—English, in full season, \ 3s. 6rf. to 5j. each ; when scarce, TO*, bo \ 15s.; scfl50?inife, June to August. French, i 2s. to Zs. 6d. each ; seasonable, June and I Julj'. Dutch, M. to 2s. each ; seasonable, i July and August. j MERINGUES. Ingredients.—}, lb. of pounded sngnr, ! tho whites of 4 eggs. Mode.— V\ln^^-< ' the whites of tho eggs to a stiff frotli,