100 THE DICTIONARY JOF COOKEllV. December—Bills of Fare Second Course, Haunch of Mutton. u* Roast Goose, Ham and Brussels Bprouls, Vase of Ilowera. Game Fie. 'S '•B u a Boiled Turkey and Celery Sauce. -a fe o tc Entries. 1 Fillets of Grouse and Sauce Piquaute. a o a " o en u ried L( Vase of Flowers. "S' ^ "S ^ in o 3 ster. Btreetbreads. O El £ o 302 3 Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Game soup; clear ver- micelli soup ; codfish an gratin ; fillets of whitings h la maltre d'hOtul. Entrees. —Filet do ba3uf and sauce piquante ; fri- casseed chicken ; oj'stcr patties ; curried rabbit. Second Course.—RoAst turkey and sausages; boiled log of pork and vegetables ; roast goose ; stewed beef h la Jardinibre. Third Course.—WiUgcon; partridges; Charlotte ftux pommos} December—Dinners for 6 persons. mince pies; orange jelly, lemon cream ; ajijjle tart; cabinet i^udding. Dessert aud ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course. — Mulligatawny soup ; fried slices of codfish ; soles k la ciSme. Entrees.—Croquettes of fowl; pork cut- lets and tomato sauce. Second Course.— Roast ribs of beef ; boiled turkey aud celery sauce ; tongue, garnished ; lark pudding ; vegetables. Third Course.— Eoast hare ; grouse ; plum-pudding ; mince pies ; Charlotte h. la Parisienne ; cheesecakes ; apple tart ; Kesselrode pudding. Dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Carrot soup; crimped cod and oyster sauce ; baked soles. En- trees.—Mutton kidneys k la Fran(;aise; oyster patties. Second Cojirse.—Boiled beef and vegetables ; marrow-bones; roast fowls and water-cresses; tonirue, garnished ; game pie. Third Course.— Partridges; blancmange ; compote of apples; vol-au-vent of pears; almond cheesecakes; lemon pudding. Dessert and ices. Dinners for G persona. First Course.—Rabbit soup ; brill and shrimp sauce. Entrees.—Curried fowl; oyster patties. Second Course.—Roast turkey and sausages ; boiled leg of pork ; vegetables. Third Course. — Hunters' pudding ; lemon cheesecakes; apple tart; custards, in glasses; raspberry cream. Dessert. First Course.—Ox-tail soup ; crimped cod and oyster sauce. Entrees.—Savoury rissoles; fowl scollops h la Bechamel, Second Course. — Haunch of mutton ; boiled chickens and celery sauce ; bacon- cheek, garnished with Brussels sprouts ; vegetables. Third Course. — Snijies ; orange jelly ; cheesecakes ; apples h la Portugaise ; apricot-jam tartlets; souffl of rice. Dessert, First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; solcfc k la niattro d'hOtol ; fried eels. Entrees. —Pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; ragout of mutton k la Jardinibre. Second Course. —Roast goose ; boiled leg of mutton and vegetables. Thit-d Course. — Pheasants; whipped cream; meringues; compote of Third Course. H>. Pheasants, S c"^ removed by -S-o 3^5' Plum-Pudding. . o'S ^ Vanilla Cream, j> a B ° Vase of o a Flowers. ^ Blancmange. ^ OH Wild Ducks, <^ g^. t-a' removed by .g « ? ^ Iced Pudding. g Pk Dessert and Ices.