THE DTCTIONAHY OF COOKEIIY. 154 Hnms, to Salt other Hay. Keep them in the pickle 1 month, drain tiieni, nnd send t.heni to bo sinol<od over a wood fire tor 3 weeks or a monih. Time.—To remain in tho pickle 1 month ; to be smoked 3 weeks or 1 month. SvfficieHt.—Tho above propor- tion of pickle is sufficient for 1 h;im. Seasovalle. — Hams should be pickled from October to March. HAMS, to Salt Two, about 12 or 15 lbs. each. Ingredienls.—^ lbs. of treacle, ^ lb. of saltjietre, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 2 pounds of common salt. Mode.—Tvio days before they are put into pickle, rub tho hams well with salt, to draw away all slime and blood. Throw what comes from tliem away, and then rub them with treacle, saltpetre, and salt. Lay them in a deep pan, and lei them remsiin one day ; boil the above proportion of treacle, saltpetre, Day-salt, and common salt for 5 hour, and pour this pickle boiling hot over the hams : there should be sufBcient of it to cover them- For a day or two rub them well with it; afterwards they will only require turning. They ought to remain in this pickle for 3 weeks or a month, and then be sent to be smoked, which will take nearly or quite a month to do. An ox- tongue pickled in this way is most excel- lent, to bo eaten either green or smoked. Time.—To remain in the pickle 3 weeks or a month ; to be smoked abouta month. Seasonable from October to March. HAMS, to Smoke, at Home. Take an old hogshead, stop up all the crevices, and fix a place to put a cross- stick near thebottom, to hang the articles to bo smoked on. Next, in the side, cut a hole near the top, to introduce an iron pan filled with sawdust and small pieces of green wood. Having turned the tub upside down, hang the articles upon the cross-stick, introduce the iron pan in the opening, and place a piece of red-hot iron in the pan, cover it with sawdust, and all will be complete. Let a large ham remain 40 hours, and keep up a good smoke. Fish may be smoked iu the same manner. HARE, Broiled (a Supper or Lun- cheon Dish). Infiredienis.—Tho legs and shoulders of a roast bare, ca-yenue and salt to taste, Hare, Jugged a little butter. J/w/e.—Cut the legs and shoulders from a roast hare, season tliom liiufhly with salt and cayenne, and bniil thorn over a very clear fire for 5 minuter. Dish them on a hot dish, rub over them a little cold butter, anfl send to tahl.j very quickly. Time.—5 minutes. HeatoiuihU from September to the end of February. HARE, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] JngredienU.-' The remains of cold roast hare, 1 blade ot' pounded mace, 2 or 3 allspice, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of ' savoury herbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of port wine, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tal)lespoonf)ils of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut thecoldhare into neat slices, , and put the head, bones, and trimmings 1 into a stewpan, with ^ pint of water; add ! the mace, allspice, seasoning, onion, and herbs, and stew for nearly an hour, and strain the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour, add the wine and ketchup, and . lay in the pieces of hare, with any stuflBng • that may be left. Let the whole gradually • heat by the side of the fire, and, when itt has simmered for about 5 minutes, serve, . and garnish the dish with sippets of. toasted bread. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time.—Rather more than . 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold hare, 6d. Sea-wnabUtrom September r to the end of February. , 1 HARE, Jugged (very good). Ingredients.—1 hare, \k lb. of gravy beef, i lb. of butter, 1 onion, 1 lemon, 6 cloves; pepper, cayenne, and salt to taste ; A pint of port wine. Mode.— Skin, paunch, and wash tho hare, cut it into pieces, dredfie them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Have ready lA pint of gravy, made from the above proportion of beef, and thickened with a little fluur. Put this into a jar; add the pieces of fried hare, an onion stuck with six clov( a lemon peeled and cut in half, and good seasoning of pepper, ca3-ennc, and salt; cover the jar down tightly, put it up to the neck into a stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until tho bare U quite tender, taking care to keep tha water boiling. When nearly done, pour in tho wine, and add a few forcemeat balls : these must bo fried or bak«d in the oven for a few minutes before they arc mit to the gravy. Soi-ve with red-currant j c'l}'. Time.—Z}^ to 4 hours. If the hare is rory