THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 265 Potatoes, to Boil in their Jackets attentively watched, and probed with a fork, to ascertain when they are cooked. Send them to table quickly, and very hot, and with an opening in the cover of the dish, that a portion of the steam may evaporate, and not fall back on the pota- toes. Time.—Moderate-sized old pota- toes, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water hoUs ; large ones, \ hour to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. Note.—To keep potatoes hot, after draining the water from them, put a folded cloth or flannel (kept for the pur- pose) on the top of them, keeping the saucepan-lid partially uncovered. This will absorb the moisture, and keep them hot some time without spoiling. POTATOES, to Boil in their Jackets. Ingredients.—10 or 12 potatoes; to each ^ gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—To obtain this wholesome and delicious vegetable cooked in perfection, it should be boiled and sent to table with the skin on. In Ireland, where, perhaps, the cooking of potatoes is better understood than in any co\mtry, they are always served so. "Wash the potatoes well, and if neces- sary, use a clean scrubbing-brush to re- move the dirt from them ; and, if pos- sible, choose the potatoes so that they may all be as nearly the same size as possible. When thoroughly cleansed, fill the saucepan half full with them, and just cover the potatoes with cold water salted in the above proportion: they are more quickly boiled with a small quan- tity* of water, and, besides, are more savoury than when drowned in it. Bring them to boil, then draw the pan to the sido of the fire, and let them simmer gently until tender. Ascertain when they are done by probing them with a fork; then pour off the water, uncover the saucepan, and let the pota- toes dry by the side of the fire, taking care not to let them bui-n. Peel them quickly, put them in a very hot vege- table-tlish, either with or without a nap- kin, and servo very quickly. After pota- toes are cooked, they should never bo entirely covered up, as tho steam, in- stead of escaping, falls down on them, ind makes them watery and insipid. Potatoes, Fried In Ireland they are usually served up with the skins on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest. Time. —Moderate-sized potatoes, with their skins on, 20 to 25 minutes after the water boils; large potatoes, 25 minutes to % hour, or longer ; 5 minutes to dry them. Average cost, 45. per bushel. Sufficient for G persons. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. POTATOES, New, to Boil. Ingredients.—Potatoes ; to each \ gal- lon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoon- ful of salt. Mode.—T)o not have the potatoes dug long before they are dressed, as they are never good when they have been out of the ground some time. Well wash them, rub off the skins with a coarse cloth, and put them into boiling water salted in the above proportion. Let them boil until tender; try them with a fork, and when done, pour the water away from them; let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid of the saucepan partially unco- vered, and when the potatoes are tho roughly dry, put them into a hot vege- table-dish, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; pile the potatoes over this, and serve. If the potatoes are too old to have the skin rubbed off, boil them in their jackets ; drain, peel, and serve them as above, with a piece of butter placed in the midst of them. Time.—\ to ^ hour, according to tho size. Average cost, in full season, 1;/, per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 3 lbs. for 5 or 0 persons. Seasonable in May and June, but may be had, forced, in March. POTATOES, Fried (French Fashion). Ingredients.—Potatoes, hot butter or claritied dripping, salt. Mode.—Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices, as nearly tho same size as possible; make some butter or dripping hot in a frying- pan ; put in tho potatoes, and fry them on both sides until nearly cooked. Now take the potatoes out of the fat, make tho fat quite boiling, then throw in the potatoes for a minute or two until suf- ficiently done. Tho immersion of the vegetable in the grease a second time after it is partially cooked, causes it to puff or "gonfler," as tho French say, which is the desired appearance for properly-dressed fried potatoes to po8«