TSS DICTIONARY 01* COOKER?. 101 December, Plain Family Dinners Normandy pippins; mince pics; plum- pudcling. Dessert. First Course. — Carrot soup ; baked cod ; fried smelts. Entrees. — Stewed rump-steak h la Jardiniere ; fricasseed chicken. Second Course.—Roast leg of mutton, boned and stufled ; boiled turkey and oyster sauce ; vegetables. Third Coxirse. — Wild ducks ; fancy pastry ; lemon cream ; damson tart, with bottled fruit; custards, in glasses ; cabinet pud- ding. Dessert. DECEMBEH.Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Carrot soup. 2. Roast beef, horseradish sauce, vegetables. 3. Plum-pudiling, mince pies. MoraUu). —1. Fried whitings, melted butter. 2. Rabbit pie, coid beef, mashed potatoes. 3. Plum-pudding cut in slices and warmed, apple tart. Tuesdaij.—1. Hashed beef and broiled bones, pork cutlets and tomato sauce ; vegetables. 2. Baked lemon pudding. Wednesday.—1. Boiled neck of mutton and vegetables,—the broth served first with a little pearl barley or rice boiled in it. 2. Bakewell pudding. Thursday.—1. Roast leg of pork, apple sauce ; vegetables. 2. Rice snowballs. Friday.—1. Soles h, la crSme. 2. Cold pork and mashed potatoes, broiled rump- steaks and oyster sauce. 3. Rolled jam pudding. Saturday.—1. The remains of cold pork curi icd, dish of rice, mutton cutlets and mashed potatoes. 2. Baked apple dump- lings. Sunday.—1. Roast turkey and sau- ragcs, boiled leg of pork, pease pudding ; vegetables. 2. Baked apple i^udding, mince pies. Monday. — 1. Hashed turkey, cold pork, mashed potatoes. 2. Mincemeat puililing. Tu^sdojf.—\. Pea-soup made from li- quor in which pork was boiled. 2. Boiled fowls ai d celery sauce, vegetables. 3. Baked rico pudding. Wednesday.—\. Roast leg of mutton, stewed Spanish onions, potatoes. 2. Baked rolled jam pudding. Thursday.—1. Baked cod's head. 2. Cold mutton, roast hare, gravy and red- currant jolly. 3. Macaroni. Friday.-—I. Hare soup, made with Block aud remains of roast hare. 2. Dessert Hashed mutton, pork cutlets, and mashed potatoes. 3. Open tarts, rice blancmange. Saturday.—1. Rumpsteak-and-kidney pudding, vegetables. 2. Mince pies, baked apple dumplings. DECEMBER, Things in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, eels, dace, gudgeons, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, oysters, jjerch, pike, shrimps, skate, spi-ats, soles, touch, thornback, turbot, whiting. Meat. —Beef, house lamb, mutton,pork, venison. Poultry. —Capons, chickens, fowls, geese, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, tur- keys, widgeons, wild ducks. Game.—Hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks. Vegetables.— Broccoli, cabbages, car- rots, celery, leeks, onions, potatoes, parsnips, Scotch kale, turnips, winter spinach. Fruit. — Apples, chestnuts, filberts, grapes, medlars, oranges, pears, walnuts, dried fruits, such as almonds and raisins, figs, dates, &c.,—crystallized preserves. DESSEBT. With modems the dessert is not so profuse, nor docs it hold the same rela- tionship to the dinner that it held with the ancients,—the Romans more espe- cially. On ivory tables they would spread hundreds of different kinds of raw, cooked, and preserved fruits, tarts, and cakes, as substitutes for the more substantial comestibles with which the guests were satiated. However, as late as the reigns of our two last Georges, fabulous sums were often expended upon fanciful des- serts. The dessert certainly repays, in its general effect, the expenditure upon it of much pains; and it may be said, that if there be any poetry at all in mcalb, or the process of leediug, there is poetry in the dessert, the materials for which should be selected with taste, and, of course, must depend, in a great measure, upim the season. Pines, melons, grapes, peaches, nectarines, plums, strawberries, api)les, pears, oranges, almonds, raisins, figs, walnuts, filberts, medlars, chej-ries, &c. &:c., all kinds of dried fruits, and choice and delicately-flavoured cakes and biscuits, make up the dessert, together with the most costly and recherche wines. The shape of tho distics varies at different periods, tho prevailing fashion at present