THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 305 Sauce, Genevese SAUCE, Genevese, for Salmon, Trout, &c. Ingredients.—1 small carrot, a small faggot of sweet herbs, including parsley, 1 onion, 5 or 6 mushrooms (when obtain- able), 1 bay-leaf, 6 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, 1 glass of sherry, Ih pint of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Cnt up the onion and carrot into small rings, and put them into a stewpan with the herbs, mush- rooms, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace; add the butter, and simmer the whole very gently over a slow fire until the onion is quite tender. Pour in the stock and sherry, and stew slowly for 1 hour, when strain it off into a clean saucepan. Now make a thickening of butter and flour, put it to the sauce, stir it over the fire until perfectly smooth and mellow, add the lemon-juice, give one boil, when it will be ready for table. Time.—Alto- gether 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient, half this quantity for two slices of salmon. SAUCE, Green, for Green Geese or Ducklings. Ingredients. — \ pint of sorrel-juice, 1 glass of sherry, h pint of green goose- berries, 1 teaspoonftd of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—Boil the gooseberries in water until they are quite tiender; mash them and press them through a sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with the above ingredients; simmer for 3 or 4 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Note.—We have given this recipe as a sauce for green geese, thinking that some of our readers might sometimes require it; but, at the generality of fashionable tables, it is now seldom or never served. SAUCE, Indian Chetney. Ingredients. — 8 oz. of sharp, sour apples, pared and cored; 8 oz. of toma- toes, 8 oz. of salt, 8 oz. of brown sugar, 8 oz. of stoned raisins, 4 oz. of cayenne, 4 oz. of powdered ginger, 2 oz. of garlic, 2 oz. of shalots, 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart of lemon juice. Mode.—Chop tho apples in small square pieces, and add to them the other ingredients. Mix the whole well together, and put in a \7ell-covcred jar. Keep this in a warm place, and stir "every da.j for q month. Sauce, Leamington taking care to put on the lid after this operation ; strain, but do not squeeze it dry; store it away in clean jars or bottles for use, and the liquor will serve as an excellent sauce for meat or fish. Seasonable.—Make this sauce when toma- toes are in full season, that is, from tbo beginning of September to the end of October. SAUCE, Italian (Brown). Ingredients.—A few chopped mush- rooms and shalots, ^ pint of stock, ^ glass of Madeira, the juice of ^ lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.— V\xt the stock into a stewpan with the mush- rooms, shalots, and Madeira, and stew gently for 5 hour, then add the remain- ing ingredients, and let them just boil. When the sauce is done enough, put it in another stewpan, and warm it in a lain marie. The mushi-ooms should not be chopped long before they are wanted, as they will then become black. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, for this quantity, Id. Sufficient for a small dish. SAUCE, Italian (WMte). Ingredients.—h pint of white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shalots, 1 slice of ham, minced very fine; ^ pint of Bechamel ; salt to taste, a few drops of garlic vinegar, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a squeeze of lemon- juice. Mode. —Put the shalots and mush- rooms into a stewpan with the stock and ham, acid simmer very gently for ^ hour, when add tho Bechamel. Let it just boil up, and then strain it through a tammy; season with the above ingredients, and serve very hot. If this sauce should not have retained a nice white colour, a little cream may be added. Time.—h hour. Average cost, for this quantity, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. iV^oie.—To preserve the colour of tho mushrooms after pickling, throw them into water to which a little lemon-juice has been added. m SAUCE, Leamington (an Excellent Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, Hashes, Soups, &c. —Author'B Kecipe). Ingredients.—Walnuts. To each quar't of waluut-jiiico allow 3 (Quarts of vinegqa*,