THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHY. 97 Cutlet, th.e Invalid's tartlets ; 5 minutes after be'm^ iced. Average cost, exclusive of tlie paste, Is, Siitjicient to '.ill 10 or 12 tiirtlets. Seasoa- ab/e at any time. iVote.—i'lie iciuo^ may be omitted on the top of the tai-tlets, and a spoonful )f any kind of preserve put at the bot- :om of the custard instead : this varies 3oth the flavour and appearance of this lish. DUTLET, tlie Invalid's. Ingredients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin )r neck of mutton, 2 teacupfuls of water, L very small stick of celery, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the cutlet iut from a very nice loin or neck of nutton ; take off all the fat; put it into I stewpan, with the other ingredients ; itew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, md skim off every particle of fat that nay rise to the surface from time to lime. The celery should be cut into thin lices before it is added to the meat, and ai-e must be taken not to put in too nuch of this ingredient, or the dish will lot be good. If the water is allowed to )oil fast, the cutlet will be hard, Tivie. —2 hours' very gentle stewing. Average ost, M, Sufficient for 1 person. Season- 'Me at any time, TCTTLETS, Mutton, Italian. Ingredients.—About 3 lbs, of the neck if mutton, clarified butter, the yolk of egg, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 tea- poonful of minced shalot, 1 saltspoonful if finely-chopped iemonpeel; pepper, alt, and pounded mace to taste; flour, pint of hot broth or water, 2 teaspoon- uls of Hai-vey's sauce, 1 teaspoonful of oy, 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, tablespoonful of port wine. Mode.— Jut the mutton into nicely-shaped cut- cts, flatten them, and trim off some of he fat, dip them in clarified butter, and hen into the beaten yolk of an egg, SW-x. well together bread crumbs, herbs, )arsley, shalot, lemon-peel, and season- ng in the above proportion, and cover ,lie cutlets with these ingredients. Melt lome butter in a frying-pan, lay in the iutlcts, and try them a nice brown ; take hem out, and keep them hot before the ire. Dredge some flour into the pan, ind, if there is not sufficient butter, add k littiw more; stir till it looks brown, Dampfnudeln then put in the hot broth or water, and the remaining ina-rcdients ; give one boil, and pour round the cutlets. If the gravy should not be thick enough, add a little more flour. Mushrooms, when obtain- able, are a great improvement to this dish, and when not in season, mu.shroom- powder may be substituted for them. Time.—10 minutes; rather longer, should the cutlets be very thick. Average cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. < CUTLETS of Cold Mutton. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients, —The remains of cold loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, broad • crumbs, brown gravy or tomato sauce. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of the fat, should there be too much ; dip them in beaten egg,- and sprinlvle with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, and pour" round them either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. Time.—About 7 minutes. Seasonable.— Tomatoes to be had most reasonably in September and October. DAMPFNUDELN", or German Puddings. Ingredients.—1 lb, of flour, \ lb. of butter, 5 eggs, 2 small tablespoonfuls of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls of flnely-pounded sugar, milk, a very little salt. Mode.— Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, into which put the yeast, and rather more than | pint of warm milk ; make this into a batter with the middle of the flour, and let the sponga rise in a warm temperature. When suf- ficiently risen, mix the eggs, butter, sugar, and salt, with a little more warm milk, and knead the whole well together with the hands, beating the dough until it is perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then cover the basin with a cloth, put it in a warm place, and wheif. the dough has nicely risen, knead it intt small balls ; butter the bottom of a deep sautd-pan, strew over some pounded sugar, and let the dampfnudeln be laid in, but do not let them touch one an- other ; then pour over sufiiciont nylk to cover them, put on the lid, and let them rise to twice their original size by tho side of the fire. Now place them in tha oven for a few minutes to acquire a nice 4