2G8 THE diotionahy op cookery. Prawn Soup rage cost, 2s. 6d. Svfficient.—The above quantity divided in two will make two nice-sized cakes. Seasonable at anytime. PEAWN SOUP. Ingredients.—Two quarts of fisli stock, two pints of prawns, the crumb of a French roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup to taste, one blade of mace, one- fourth pint of vinegar, a little lemon- juice. Mode.—Yic\L out the tails of the prawns, put the bodies in a stewpan with 1 blade of mate, \ pint of vinegar, and the same ^luantity of water; stew them for \ hour, and strain off the liquor. Put the fish stock into a stewpan ; add the strained liquor, pound the prawns ■with the crumb of a roll moistened with a little of the soup, mb them through a tammj', and mix them by degrees with the soup ; add ketchup or auchovy sauce to taste with a little lemon-juice. When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns; let them get thoroughl}' hot, and serve. If not thick enough, put in a little butter and flour. Time.—Hour. Average cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This can be thickened with tomatoes, and vermicelli served in it, which makes it a very tasteful soup. PKAWNS, to Dress. Cover a dish with a large cup reversed, and over that lay a small white napkin. Arrange the prawns on it in the form of a pyi'amid, and garnish with plenty of parsley. Sometimes prawns are stuck into a lemon cut in half the long way, and garnished with parsley. PBESEBVES. From the nature of vegetable sub- stances, and chiefly from their not pass- ing so rapidly into the putrescent state as animal bodies, the mode of preserving them is somewhat different, although the general principles are the same. All the means of preservation are put in practice occasionally for fruits and the various parts of vegetables, according to the nature of the species, the climate, the uses to which they are applied, &c. Some are dried, as nuts, raisins, sweet herbs, &c. ; others are preserved by means of sugar, such as many fruits whoso delicate juices would bo lost by drying; some are preserved by means of vinegar, and chiefly used as condi- Preserves ments or pickles ; a few also by salting, . as French beans; while others are pro- served in spirits. We have, however, in this place to treat of the best methods of preserving fruits. Fruit is a most: important item in the eomomy of health ;, the epicurean can scarcely be said to have a.ny luxuries without it; therefore, i as it is so invaluable, when wo cannot: ; have it fresh, we must have it preserved.. ; It has long been a desideratum to pro- ■ i serve fruits by some cheap method, j'et; ■ by such as would keep them fit for the various culinary purposes, as making: j tarts and other similar dishes. The ex- ■ •. pense of preserving them with sugar is a • : serious objection ; for, except the sugar e be used in considerable quantities, tho i success is very uncertain. Sugar also p overpowers and destroys the sub-acid, i taste so desirable in many fruits : tboso- r which aro preserved in this manner aro - i chiefly intended for the dessert. Fruits ^ c intended for preservation should bo: -c gathered in the morning, in dry weather,. n with the morning sun upon them, if pos- ■ s sible; they will then have their fullest: ci flavour, and keep in good condition S longer than when gathered at any other: ^ time. Until fruit can be used, it should . u be placed in the dairy, an ice-house, or as c; refrigerator. In an ice-house it will re- • maiu fresh and plump for several da3-s. s i) Fruit gathered in wet or foggy weather - r, will soon be mildewed, and be of no ser- - to vice for preserves. tr Having secured the first and most im- ■ ii portant contribution to the manufactureo of preserves—the fruit, the next con- f; sidcration is the preparation of the syrup:' !,■; in which the fruit is to be suspended;; cv and this requires much care. In thO'? fi. confectioner's art there is a great nicety; (•• in proportioning tho degree of coucen- t; tration of the syrup very exactly to eachi- tjr particular case ; and he knows this by signs, and expressesit bycertaintechnical. tt, terms. But to distinguish these properly •;• requires very great attention and con- siderablo experience. The principal i ^ thing to be acquainted with is the fact, f. that, in proportion as the syrup is longel (j, boiled, its water will become evaporated;'. and its consistency will bo thicker. Great '. care must be taken in the management' j. of the fire, that tho syrup docs not boil t over, and that tho boiling is not carried f. to such an extent as to burn the sugar. Tho first degree or consistency is called ■> ^ Vie thread, which is subdivided into th« • *■