298 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Salad Dressing the whole are thoroughly incorporated one with the other. Pour in sufficient vinegar to make it of the consistency of cream, taking care to add but little at a time. The mixture will then be ready for iiso. Averarje cost, for this quantity, Id. Sufficient for a moderate- sized salud. Note.—The whites of the eggs, Skit into rings, will serve very well as a gai-nishing to the salad. SALAD DHESSmG (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of salad oil, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, teaspoonful of salt, h teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mode.— Prepare and mix the ingredients by the preceding recipe, and be very particular that the whole is well stirred. Note.—In making salads, the vege- tables, &c., should never be added to the sauce very long before they are wanted for table; the dressing, however, may always be prepared some hours before required. Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off • sufficient dressing for a few days' con- sumption, as, thereby, much time and trouble are saved. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good for 4 or 5 days. Poetic Recipe for Salad.—The He v. Sydney Smith's recipe. " Two large potatoes, pass'd through kitchen sieve. Smoothness and softness to the salad give: Of mordent mustard add a single spoon. Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault. To add a double quantity of salt: Pour times the spoon with oil of Lncca crown. And twice with vinegar procured from ' town;' True flavour needs it, and your poet begs, The pounded yellow of two well-boii'd egga. Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavour'd compound tosa A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. Oh 1 great and glorious, and, herbaceous treat, 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he'd turn his weai-y soul. And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl," SALAD, French. Ingredients.—Lettuces; alittlechoppod burnet. To every 4 tablespoonfuls of oil allow 1 i of cither Tarragon or plain French vinegar; 1 saltspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful of pepper. Mode.—Wash the lettuces, shake them in a cloth, i^nd Salad, Hed Cabbage cut them into inch lengths. Put the lettuce into a salad-bowl, sprinkle over the chopped burnet, and mix these well together. Put the salt and pepper into the salad-spoon, moisten with the vinegar, disperse this amongst the salad, pour the oil over, and mix the whole well together for at least five minutes, when the pre- paration will 1)0 ready for table. This is the very simple and expeditious mode of preparing a salad geneniliy adopted by our French neighbours, who are so noted, for the delicious manner in which they dress their bowl. Success will not bo obtained if the right vinegar is not pro- cured, therefore we advise our friends- who wish to excel in making a French. salad to procure a bottle of the best' French vinegar, flavoured with Tarragon . or not as the taste may dictate. Those: persons living in or near London, can i purchase the vinegar of Messrs. Crosse 3 & Blackwell, Soho Square, at whose es- ■ tablishment the quality of this important t ingredient in a salad can be relied cn.. Time.—To be stirred at least 5 minutes after all the ingredients are put in.. Sufficient. Allow 2 moderate-sized 1 lettuces for 4 persons. SecLsonalle.. Plentiful in summer, but scarce and I dear dming the winter season. Fresh. Fruit (A Dessert t SALAD, Dish). Mode.—Fruit salads are made by' stripping the fruit from the stalks, piling r it on a dish, and sprinkling over it tinely ' pounded sugar. They may be made of strawberries, raspberries, cun-ants, or • any of these fruits mixed ; peaches also ' make a very good salad. After the sujrar ■ is sprinkled over, about 6 large table- • spoonfuls of wine or brandy, or 3 table- - spoonfuls of liqueur, should be poured in i the middle of the fruit; and, when the » flavour is liked, a little pounded cinna- mon may be added. In helping the fruit, it should be lightly stirred, that the wine and sugar may be equally dis- • tributed. Snfficient.—Ih pint of fruity with 3 oz. of pounded sugar, for 4 or persons. Seasonable in summer. SALAD, Bed Cabbage. Ingredients.—A small red cabbage, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, i pint of vinegar, 3 tcaspoonfuls of oil, a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mode.—Take off th* < outside leaves of a fresh red cabbage