xiv I Philosophy of Housekeeping. tradesman's book should be compared with the cook's slate or tally, or tl brought with the meat, as in the butcher's case, for instance; then the i mu5t be added up, or the statements verified by tbo rea<ly-reckoner, a- ladies are clever enough to keep reckoning tables in their heads as one doc^ ' multiplication tables, 77. The Meat Tickets should be kept on a hook in the kitcheD,^nd verified by the mistress when comparing the weight charged with that sent in. . The cook n jist of course weigh the moat before allowing the butcher to leave the door; she- will then be able to see if the weight is correct, and make the butcher alter the ticltf. or take back the joint if the weight is not correct. Groceries must al- ' weighed, as well as bread, and, indeed, all goods sold by weight. Wa should be counted over by the housemaid on Monday morning in presence of the mistress, who should enter the items in the washing-book, and, on the return of the linen, the housemaid should compare the quantities returned with the book before airing and putting the linen away, PURCHASING. 78. A few Rkmabks as to the best Modes and Places of Buying artic^ Domestic Consumption may be useful here. 79. It is not enough to have plenty of money ; one must try to become a reallj clever buyer. A "clever" buyer is not one who beats down the price of ever article until she is well known, and prices are put up to come down to th smallest value only. She must know the real value of every article at each se of the year, and either give that exact value or know how to go without j fully, or to make up by purchasing an equivalent at less cost. American won are wonderfully clever buyers: they know exactly what they want, and will' ■it. Before purchasing, they inquire at many shops various prices, or, as quaintly say, go "pricing, not shopping." 80. The Civil Service Co-operative Association is invaluable to the members i the friends of members possessing tickets. These tickets cost 5s. annually, are renewed at the end of February in each year. It is now considered a g favour to obtain one of these tickets, as the number is restricted. At the st every article of grocery, housekeeping, and drapery requirements is sold at lit more than cost price, while the shops in connection with the stores allow memh' 1.7 20 25, and 30 per cent, discount off the sums spent with them. Of cour all'this is the advantage of the ready-money system of cash payments ; but' 'saving is undoubted, at.d one has the great satisfaction of feeling that e? article one has is paid for. In short, whether for making or for mending, stores, and shops in connection with the stores, are invaluable. 81. When the weather allows of meat hanging, and the Uirder is commodio