TEE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 205 Mutton SLUT TON. Almost every large city has a parti- Sulai- manner of cutting up, or, as it is ealled, dressing the carcase. In London this process is very simple, and as our butchers have found that much skewer- ing back, doubling one part over another, or scoring the inner cuticle or fell, tends to spoil the meat and shorten the time it would ■ otherwise keep, they avoid all Buch treatment entirely. The carcase •when flayed (which operation is per- formed while yet warm), the sheep when hung up and the head re- moved, pre- sents the profile shown in our cut; the small numerals indicating the parts or joints into which one- half of the animal is cut. After separating the hind from the fore quar- ters, with eleven ribs to the lat- ter, the quart era are usually subd ivided in the man- ner shown in the sketch, in which the aeveral joints aro defined by the inter- vening lines and figures. Hind miarler: No. 1, the leg; 2, the loin —the two, when cut in one piece, being called the saddle. Fore quarter: No. 3, the Bhoulder; 4 and 6 the neck; No. 5 being called, for distinction, the scrag, which is generally afterwards separated from 4, tke lower and better joint; No. 6, the breast. The haunch of mutton, 80 often served at public dinners and Bpecial entertainments, comprises all the leg and so much of tho loin, short of the SXDU OP MTJTTOK, SHOWIKO THE SEVEEAL JOIXTS. Mutton, to cook a Breast of ribs or lap, as is indicated on the upper part of tho carcase by a dotted line. MUTTON, Baked Minced. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— The remains of any joint of cold roast mutton, 1 or 2 onions, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace or nutmeg, , 1 teacupful of gravy, mashed pota- ;^ toes. Mode.—Mince an onion rather i'' fine, and fry it a light-brown colour; add the herbs and mutton, both of which should be also finely minced and well mixed ; season with pepper and salt, and a little iio\mded mace or nutmeg, and moisten with the above proportion of gravy. Put a layer of mashed potatoes at the bottom of a dish, then the mutton, and then another layer of potatoes, and bake for about ^ hour. Time.—\ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable at any time. Note.—If there should be a large quan- tity of meat, use 2 onions instead of 1. MUTTON, Boiled Breast of, and Caper Sauce. Ingredients.—Breast of mutton, bread cnimbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced sa- voury herbs (put a large proportion of parsley), popper and salt to taste. Mode. —Cut off the superfluous fat; bone the meat; sprinkle over a layer of bread crumbs, minced herbs, and seasoning; roll, and bind it up firmly. BoW gently for 2 hours, remove the tape, and serve with caper sauce, a little of -which should bo poured over the meat. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable all the year. MUTTON, an excellent way to cook a Breast of. Ingredients. — Breast of mutton, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, green peas. Mode. — Cut the mutton into pieces about 2 inches square, and let it be tolerably lean ; put it into a stewpan, with a little fat or buttor, and fry it of a nice brown ; then dredge in a little flour, slice tho onions, and put it with the herbs in the stewpan ; pour in sufficient vfater jusl to cover tho meat, and simmer the whole gently until the mutton is tender. Take out the meat, strain, and skim off all the fat from the gi'avy, and