109 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Duck, Wild, Hashed DUCK, WUd, Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast w'ld duck, 1 pint of good brown gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread cmmbs, 1 glass of claret, salt, cayenne, and mixed spices to taste; 1 tablespoonful of lemon or Seville orange-juice. Mode.—Cut the remains of the duck into neat joints, put them into a stewpan,with all the above in- gredients ; let them get gradually hot by the side of the fire, and occasionally stir the contents; when on the point of boiling, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—About | hour. Seasonable from November to February. DUCK, WUd, Hagout of. Ingredients.—2 wild ducks, 4 shalots, 1 pint of stock (see JStock), 1 glass of port wine, 1 oz. of butter, a little flour, the juice of ^ lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Ducks that have been dressed and left from the preceding day will answer for this dish. Cut them into joints, reserve the legs, wings, and breasts until wanted ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with the shalots and stock, and let them simmer for about h hour, and strain the gravy. Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in a little flour, and pour in the gravy made from the bones; give it one boil, and strain it again ; add the wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne ; lay in the pieces of duck, and let the whole gra- dually warm through, but do not allow it to boil, or the duck will be hard. The gravy should not be too thick, and should be very highly seasoned. The squeeze of a Seville orange is a great improve- ment to this dish. Time.—About ^ hour to make the gravy; ^ hour for the duck gradually to warm through. Seasonable from November to February. DUCK, Wild, Roast. Ingredieni3.—\YM duck, flour, butter, il/oc^e.—Carefully pluck and draw them ; cut oS' the heads close to the necks leaving sufficient skin to turn over, and do not cut off the feet; some twist each leg at the knuckle, and rest the claws on each side of the breast; others truss them as shown in our illustration. Boast the birds before a quick firo, and, when they are first put down, let thom re- main for 5 minutes without basting (this will keep the gravy in); afterwards baste plentifully with butter, and a few minutes Dumplings, Sussex before serving dredge them lightly with flour ; baste well, and send them to table nicely frothed, and full of gravy. If EOAST WILD DITCE:. overdone, the birds will lose their flavour. Serve with a good gravy in the dish, or orange gravy, and send to table with them a cut lemon. To take ofi" the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, baste them for a few minutes with hot water to which have been added an onion and a little salt; then take away the pan, and baste with butter. Tivie.—When liked underdressed, 20 to 25 minutes; well done, 25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. to 5s. the couple. DUCK, WUd, to Canre. As game is almost universally served as a dainty, and not as a dish to stand the assaults of an altogether fresh ap- petite, these dishes are not usually cut up entirely, but only those parts are served of each which are considered the best flavoured and the prim est. Of wild fowl, the breast alone is considered by epicui-es worth eating, and slices aro cut from this, in the direction indicated by the lines, from 1 to 2 ; if necessary, the leg and the wing can be taken off bjr passing the knife from 8 to 4, and by generally following the directions do- scribed for carving boiled fowl. DUMPLINGS, Sussex, or Hard. Ingredients.—! lb. of flour, I pint of water, i saltspoonful of salt. Mode.— Mix the flour and water togpther to a smooth paste, previously addirg a small quantity of salt. Form this into small round dumplings ; drop thom into boil« ing water, and boil from i to j hour. They may be served with roast or boiled meat; in the latter case, they may ba cooked with the meat, hut should bo dropped into the water when it is quite boiling. Time.—^ to J hour. Sufficient WILD DUCK.