1?HE DICTIONAHY Of COOKEU?. 359 Veal, Moiilded Minced at the bottom aud sides. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, and be very cai'cfiil in turning it out of the mould. VEAIj, Moulded Minced (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—f lb. of cold roast veal, a small slice of bacon, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-])eel, ^ onion chopped fine, salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a slice of toast soaked in milk, '1 egg. Mode.—Mince the meat very- fine, after removing from it all skin and outside pieces, and chop the bacon; mix these well together, adding the lemon-peel, onion, seasoning, mace, and toast. When all the ingredients are thofoughlj' incorporated, beat up an egg, with which bind the mixture. Butter a shape, put in the meat, and bake for ^ hour; turn it out of the mould carefully, and pour round it a good brown gravy. A sheep's head dressed in this manner is an economical and savoury dish. Time. ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Braised Neck of. Ingredients.—The best end of the neck of veal (from 3 to 4 lbs.), bacon, 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; 1 onion, 2 carrots, a little celery (when this is not obtainable, use the seed), ^ glass of sherry, thickening of butter and flour, lemon-juice, 1 blado of pounded mace. Prepare the bacon for larding, and roll it in minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; lard the veal, jjut it into a stewpan with a few slices of lean bacon or ham, an onion, carrots, and celery; and do not quite cover it with water. Stew it gently for '2 hours, or until it is quite tender ; strain off the liquor; stir together over the fire, in a stewpan, a little flour and butter until brown; lay the veal in this, the upper side to tbo bottom of the pan, and let it remain till it is a nice brown colour. Place it in the dish ; pour into the stew- pan as mucn gravy as is rcquii-ed, boil it up, skim well, add the wine, pounded mace, and lemon-juice; simmer for 3 minutes, pour it over the meat, and Rervo. Time. — Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, M. per lb. ISii.lJi. dent for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable Irom March to October. Veal Pie VEAL, Hoast Week of. Ingredients. — Veal, melted butter, forcemeat balls. Mode.—Have the veal cut from the best end of the neck ; dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright clear fire ; keep it well basted ; dish it, pour over it some melted butter, and garnish the dish with fried force- meat balls ; send to table with a cut lemon. The scrag may be boi'ed or stewed in various ways, with rice, onion- sauce, or parsley and butter. Time.— About 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient—4: or 5 lbs. for 5 or 6 ■ lersons. Seasonable from March to Octobei'. VEAL OLIVE PIE (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A few thin slices of cold fillet of veal, a few thin slices of bacon, forcemeat, a cupful of gravy, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, puff-crust. Mode. —Cut thin slices from a fillet of veal, place on them thin slices of bacon, and over them a layer of forcemeat, made by recipe, with an additional seasoning of shalot and cayenne ; roll them tightly, and fill up a pie-dish with them ; add the gravy and cream, cover with a puff- crust, and bake for 1 to 1^ hour : should the pie be very large, allow 2 hours. The pieces of rolled veal should be about 3 inches in length, and about 3 iuches round. Tiiiie.—Moderate-sized pie, 1 to 1^ hour. Seasonable from Mai-oh to October. VEAL PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonl'uls of minced savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, crust, 1 teacupful of gravy. Mode. — Cut the cutlets into square pieces, and season them with popper, salt, and pounded mace; put them in a pie-dish with the savoury herbs sprinkled over, and 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham placed at the top; if possible, this should be previotisly cooked, as undressed bacon makes the veal red, and spoils its appearance. Pour in a little water, cover with crust, orna- ment it in any way that is approved; brush it over with the 3 olk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for about lA liour. Pour in a good gravy after baking, which is done by removing the \