l^HE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Almond Puffs almonds with this, and add the other ingredients, leaving out tho whites of 2 eggs, and be particular that these ai'o well beaten. Mix well, but- ter some cups, BMAIL ALMOND PUDDINGS. half fill them, and bake the puddings from 20 minutes tcf I hour. Turn them out on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce, or with sifted sugar only. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND PUFFS. Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, ■2 oz. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter almonds. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar to a smooth paste ; melt the butter, dredge in the flour, and add the sugar and pounded almonds. Beat the mixture well, and put it into cups or very tiny jelly-pots, which should be well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes, or longer, should the puflfs be large. Turn them out on a dish, the bottom of the puff uppermost, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, 8d. St(fficie7it for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND SOUP. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of lean beef or veal, a few vegetables as for Stock (see Stock), 1 oz. of vermicelli, 4 blades of mace, 6 cloves, h lb. of sweet almonds, the yolks of 6 "eggs, 1 gill of thick cream, rather more than 3 quarts of •water. Mode.—Boil the beef or veal, vegetables, and spices gently in water that will cover them, til) che gravy is very strong, and tho w.aat very tender ; then strain off the grr.vy, !).nd set it on , the fire with the specified quantity of vermicelli to 2 quarts. Lot it boil till sufficiently cooked. Have ready the almonds, blancher] and pounded very fine ; the yolks of the eggs boiled hard; mixing the alm?nds, whilst pounding, with a little of the soup, lest tho latter should grow oily. Pound them to a pulp, and keep adding to them, by degrees, a little soup, until they are thoroughly mixed together. Lot tho soup bo cool when mixing, and do it perfectly smooth. Mtrain it throiujh a sieve, set it on tho Anchovies, Fried I fire, stir frequently, and serve hot. • before taking it up, add tho cream. Ti„ —From 4 to 5 hours to simmer meat i; vegetables; 20 minutes to cook the ^ < micelli. Average cost per quart, 2s. Seasonable all the year. SuffiderU for persons. ANCHOVY BUTTEB. J Ingredients.—To every lb. of butt':- allow 6 anchovies, 1 small bunch parsley. Mode.—Wash, bone, and poun^Ag the anchovies well in a mortar; sc^RB the parsley, chop it, and rub through - • sieve ; then pound all the ingrediei. together, mix well, and make the butt into pats immediately. This makes pretty dish, if fancifully moulded, f breakfast or supper, and should be gai nished with parsley. Average cost, ls.{ ' Sufficient to make 2 dishes, with 4 sn pats each. Seasonable at any time. ANCHOVY SAUCE, for Fish. Ingredients.—4 anchovies, 1 oz. c butter, ^ pint of melted butter, cayen". to taste. Mode.—Bone the anchovic- and pound them in a mortar to a pas' with 1 oz. of butter. Make the i butter hot, stir in the pounded an and cayenne; simmer for 3 or 4 mi!i.;i-- and, if liked, add a squeeze of lcm(L juice. A more general and expeditiou 1 way of making this sauce is to stir r f 1^ tablespoonfuls of anchovy esst ^"pint of melted butter, and i seasoning to taste. Boil the wbolo ^ for 1 minute, and serve hot. Tiiiu.- 5 minutes. Average cost, 6d. for I pii- Sufficient, this quantity, for a brill, sni:^ tui-bot, 2 soles, &c ANCHOVY TOAST. Ingredients.—Toast, 2 or 3 slices f bread, or, if wanted very savoury, fi them in clarified butter, and spr them tho paste made by recipe foi anchovies. Made mustard, or grains of cayenne, may bo added paste befoi'o' laying it on tho toast. ANCHOVIES, Fried. Ingredients.— ! tablespoonful of oi i J a glass of white wine, sufticient flourt I thicken; 12 anchovies. Mode.—Vi]^^^\ oil and wino together, with suflui''' • flo\u' to make them into a thickish i cleanse the anchovies, wipe thci