THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 103 Dessert Dishes a melon-knife and fork, and nutcrackers, should always be put on table, if there are dishes of fruit requii-ing them. Zests are sometimes served at the close of the dessert; such as anchovy toasts or bis- cuits. The French often serve plain or grated cheese with a dessert of fresh or dried fruits. At some tables, finger- glasses are placed at the right of each person, nearly half filled with cold spring water, and in winter with tepid water. These precede the dessert. At other tables, a glass or vase ia simply handed round, filled with perfumed water, into which each guest dips the corner of his napkin, and, when needful, refreshes his lips and the tips of his fingers. After the dishes are placed, and eveiy one is provided with plates, glasses, spoons, &c., the wine should be put at each end of the table, cooled or otherwise, accord- ing to the season. If the party be small, the wine may be placed only at the top of the table, near the host. The follow- ing dishes may be introduced at dessert, according to season :— Dish of Wuts.—These are merely arranged piled high in the centre of the disb, as shown in the engi-aving, with or without I'eaves round the edge. Fil- berts should always bo served with the outer skin or husk on them; and walnuts should bo well wiped with a damp cloth, and then wiihadry one, to remove the unpleasant sticky feel- ing the shells frequently have. Season- able.—Filberts from September to March; walnuts from September to January. Dessert Dishes DISH OV NUTS. Box of French Plums. — If the box which contains them is exceedingly ornamental, it >— ^-ijstr. placed iiRg!aaTO»i_ on the table; if small, on a glass dish ; if largo, without one, French plums may also be arranged on a glass BOX OV FBBNOH FI.UUS. plate, and garnished with bright-coloured sweetmeats, which make a very good effect. All fancy boxes of preserved and crystallized fruit may bo put on tho table or not, at pleasure. These littlo matters of detail must, of course, bo loft to individual tasto. Seasonable.—Maybo purchased all the j'ear ; but are in greater perfection in the winter. Dish of Mixed Fruit. — For a centre dish, a mixture of various fresh fruits has a remarkably good effect, par- ticularly if a pine be added to the list. A high raised appearance should be given to the fruit, which is done in the follow- ing manner. Place a tumbler in tho centre of the dish, and, in this tumbler. DISH 0I> MIXED I'kViT. the pine, crown uppermost; round tlia tumbler put a thick layer of moss, and, over this, apples, pears, plums, peaches, and such fruit as is simultaneously in season. By putting a layer of moss undei-neath, so much fruit is not required^ besides giving a better shape to tho dish, Grajpes should be i)laced on the top of the fruit, a portion of some of the bunchca hanging over the sides of the dish in a n6glig6 kind of manner, which takes off tho formal look of the dish. In arranging the plums, apples, &c., let tho colours contrast well. Seasonable.—^wiiahlQ for a dessert ip September or October.