^SE t)ICTIONARt OF COOKERY. 43 Biscuits, Simple Hard Sufficient to make from 3 to 4 dozen oakes. Seasonable at any time, BISCUITS, Simple Hard. Ingredients.—To eveiy lb. of flour lUow 2 oz. of butter, about \ pint of ikimmed milk. Mode.—Warm the but- ter in milk until tho former is dissolved, md then mix it with the flour into a very itiff paste; beat it with a rolling-pin mtil the dough looks perfectly smooth. JoU it out thin ; cut it with the top of a lass into round biscuits; prick them rell, and bake them from 6 to 10 minutes, ^e above is the proportion of milk yhich we think would convert the flour nto a stiff paste ; but should it be found 00 much, an extra spoonful or two of lour must be put in. These biscuits ai-e rery nice for the cheese course. Time.— 1 to 10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. JLACK-COCK, to Roast. Ingredients.—Black-cock, butter, toast. \fode.—Let these birds hang for a few I ys, or they will be tough and tasteless, ot well kept. Pluck and draw them, ■ I wipe the insides and outsides with a \mp cloth, as washing spoils the fla- ir. Cut off the heads, and truss them, i same as a roast fowl, cutting off the us, and scalding and peeling the feet. russing them with the head on, as liown in the engraving, is still practised y many cooks, but the former method I II BOAST BLACK-COCK. How considered the best. Put them '>wn to a brisk fire, well baste them h butter, and serve with a piece of st under, and a good gravy and bread ice. After ti-ussing, some cooks cover breast with vine-leaves and slices of :on, and then roast them. They .uld be served in the same manner I with tho same accompaniments as h the plainly-roasted birds. Time. to 50 minutes. Average cost, from . to 6«. the braco ; but seldom bought. 'Jficient,—2 or 3 for a dish. Seasonable in the middle of August to tho end of jcomber. Blanc-mango BLACK-COCK, to Carve. Skilful carving of game imdoubtedly adds to the i^leasure of the guests at a dinner-table; for game seems pre-emi- nently to be composed of such delicate limbs and tender flesh that an inapt prac- titioner appears to more disadvantage when mauling these pretty and favourite dishes, than larger and more robust piices de resistance. This bird is variously served with or without the head on ; and, although we do not pei'sonally object to the appearance of the head as shown in the woodcut, yet it seems to be mora in vogue to serve it with- out. The carving is not difficult, but should be ele- BLACK-COCK. gantly and deftly done. Slices from the breast, cut in the direction of the dotted line from 2 to 1, should be taken off, the merrythought displaced, and the leg and wing removed by running the knife along from 3 to i, reserving the thigh, which is considered a great delicacy, for the mosthonoured guests, some of whom may also esteem the brains of this bird. BIiAWC-MANGE (a Supper Dish) Ingredients. — 1 pint of new milk, \\ oz. of isinglass, the rind of ^ lemon, \ lb. of loaf sugar, 10 bitter almonds, ^ oz. of sweet almonds, 1 pint of cream. Mode. — Put the milk into a saucepan, with the isinglass, lemon-rind, and sugar, and let these ingredients stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well fla- voured ; add the almonds, which should be blanched and pounded in a mortar to a paste, and let the milk just boil up; strain it through a fine sieve or muslin into a jug, add the cream, and stir the mixture occasionally until nearly cold. Let it stand for a few minutes, then pour it into the mould, which should be previously oiled with the purest salad-oil, or dipped in colJ water. There will bo a sediment at the bottom of tho jug, which must not be poured into the mould, as, when turned out, it would very much disfigure the appearance of the blanc-mange. This blanc-mange may be mado very much richer by using 1^ pint ot cream, und molting the isinglass in h pmt of boiling water. The flavour may also be very much