il Philosophy of Ilousekeeping. mistress bo regular in making her appearance, the maids do not like a go- kind lady to have cheerless, undusted rooms to go into, and take care to Ije good time. 5. A Mistress should rise at latest at seven o'clock. This will appear dre fully late to some notables, but will be found to be a good hour all the year rov The mistress should take her cold bath, and perform a neat, careful, and pre morning toilet. Having performed this careful toilet, .she will be ready to desci at eight o'clock, but before leaving her room will place two chairs at the en< the bed, and turn the whole of the bedclothes over them, and, except on v rainy momin2;s, will throw open the windows of her room. She should then : her own and husband's night-dress, which have been airing during her toilet, place them in their ornamented cover; she will put brushes, combs, hair-p &c., in their proper places, and leave her toilet-table clear and tidy, and m the whole room as neat as possible. Key-basket in hand, she should desc to the breakfast-room, at once ring for the kettle or tea-urn, accort to the season, and make the tea, coffee, cocoa, or chocolate, as the case may Her eye should now glance over the table to see that everything required for table is in its place, and that all is neatly arranged and ready for the fa- —flowers on the table, preserve or marmalade in cut-glass dishes. 6. If a Mother, with a young infant, she should don a dressing-gown in of a dress, and wash her baby before coming down ; indeed, if children of age take morning baths, we advocate that no one but raamrna should dry tl As soon as these duties are over, the mistress should proceed to the break room and make the tea, coffee, or chocolate, and ring the bell for the break as above stated. When it is possible to get the master to enjoy an eight o' breakfast, household matters go on charmingly. He is usually out of the by nine, and by that hour the windows are wide open, every door set open (we permitting), and a thorough draught of " delicious air" is passed throug whole dwelling. 7. As soon as The Mistrkss hears her husband's step, the bell should be for the hot dish ; and should he be, as business men usually are, rather pr for time, she should herself wait upon him, cuttinghis bread, buttering his i &c. Also give standing orders that coat, hat, and umbrella shall be br: and ready; and see that they are, by helping on the coat, banding the hat glancing at the umbrella. 8. The Work of the Household will proceed with a far greater rcgularit despatch when the mistress is able and willing to assist in the lighter duties 9. As soon as the husband has gone off to his work, have the breakfast cl< and go into the kitchen to give orders for the day; but in some old fan before the breakfast is cleared a spotlessly' cleai^ wood-bowl is brought in