THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 68 Celery Sauco CELEDT, IN GI.AB3. Into quarters, and place it, root down- wards, in a celery-glass, which should bo ratlicr more than half Qlled with water. The top leaves may bo curled, by shred- ding them in nar- row strips with the point of a clean skewer, at a distance of about 4 inches from the top. Average cost, 2d. per head. Svfft- cient. — Allow 2 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- tonal)h from October to April. Note.—This vegetable is exceedingly useful for flavouring soups, sauces, &c., and makes a very nice addition to winter salad. CELERY SAUCE, for Boiled Tur- key, Poultry, &c. Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 pint of white stock, 2 blades of mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs; thickening of butter and flour, or arrowroot, ^ pint of cream, lemon-juice. Mode. —^oil the celery in salt and water until tender, and cut it into pieces 2 inches long. Put the stock into a stewpan with the mace and herbs, and let it simmer for h hour to extract their flavour. Then strain the liquor, add the celery, and a thickening of butter kneaded with flour, or, what is still better, with arrowroot; just before Kcrving, put in the cream, boil it up, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. If neces- sary, add a seasoning of salt and white )icppei\ Time.—25 minutes to boil the celery. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient, ihis quantity for a boiled turkey. Note.—This sauce may be made brown by using gravy instead of white stock, and flavouring it with mushroom ketchup or Ilarvey's sauce. CELERY SAUCE (a more simple Recipe), Ingredient.^ —4 heads of celery, i\ pint of melted butter made with milk, IWade of pounded mace ; salt and white pepper to taste. Mode.—Wash the celery, boil It in Bali and water till tender, and cut Celery, Stewed it into pieces 2 inches long ; make A pint melto'd butter by reci]jc ; put iu the celery, pounded rnacc, and teasoning; Bimrncr for 3 minutes, when the sauco will bo ready to servo. Time.—2^j mi- nutes to boil the celery. Average cost, M. Sufficient, this quartity for a boiled fowl. CELERY SOUP, Ingredients.—^ heads of celery, 1 tea- Eiioonf ul of salt, nutmeg to taste, 1 lump of sugar, ^ jiint of strong stock, a pint of cream, and 2 quarts of boiling water. Mode.—Cut the celery into small pieces ; throw it into thev/ater, seasoned with the nutmeg, salt, and sugar. Boil it till suf- ficiently tender; pass it through a sieve, add the stock, and simmer it for half an hour. Now put in the cream, bring it to the boiling-point, and servo immediately. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seoj-onalle from September to March. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made brown instead of white, by omittine the eream, and colouring it a little. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm of tho seed, finely pounded, will give a flavour to the soup, if put in a quarter of an hour before it is done. A little of the essence of celery will answer tho same piuposo, CELERY, Stewed, a la Creme, Ingredients.—6 heads of celery; to eack .4 gallon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt, 1 blade of pounded mace, ^ pint of cream. Mode.—Wash tho celery thoroughly ; trim, and boil it in salt and water until tender. Put the cream and pounded mace into a stewjOTU, shake it over tho fire until the cream thickens, dish tho celerj', jjour over tho sauco, and sen'e. 7'ime.—Large heads of celery, 25 minutes ; small ones, 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Scasonalh from October to April, CELERY, Stewed (with White Sauce), Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 oz. of butter ; to each half gallon of water allow 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt, A pint of white sauco (see White Sauce). Mode. —Have ready sufficient boiling water just to cover the celerj', with salt and butter in tho above proportion. Wash thd