2G8 THE DICTION-ARY OF COOKERY. Potatoes, a German Method sess. When thoy nro crisp and done, take tliem up, place them on a cloth before the fire to drain the grease from them, and serve very hot, after sprink- ling them with salt. These are delicious with rump-steak, and, in Franco, are frequently served thus as a breakfast dish. The remains of cold potatoes may also be sliced and fried by the above re- cipe, but the slices must be cut a little thicker. Time.—Sliced raw potatoes, 5 minutes ; cooked potatoes, 5 minutes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. Sufficient,— 6 sliced potatoes for 3 persons. Season- Kile at any time. POTATOES, a German Method of Cooking. Ingredients.—8 to 10 middling-sized potatoes, 3 oz. of butter, 2 tablespcJon- fuls of flour, k pint of broth, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Put the butter and flour into a stewpan; stir over the fire until the butter is of a nice brown colour, and add the broth and vinegar; peel and cut the potatoes into long thin slices, lay them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender, •which will be in from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve very hot. A laurel-leaf sim- mered with the potatoes is an improve- ment. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Season- able at any time. POTATOES, h la Maitre d'HStel. Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt and water; to every 6 potatoes allow 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Wash the potatoes clean, and boil them in salt and water ; when they are done, drain them, let them cool; then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices : if these are too thin, they would break in the sauce. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pepper, salt, gravy, and parsley ; mix these ingredients well together, put in the potatoes, shake them two or three times, that they may be well covered with the sauce, and, when quite hot through, squeeze in the lemon- juice, and serve. Time.—h to i hour to boil the potatoes ; 10 minutes for them to hea* in the sauce. A verage cost, As. per bushel. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable all the year. Potatoes, Mashed POTATOES, Mashed. Ingredients.—Potatoes; to every lb. of mashed potatoes allow 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the potatoes in their skins ; when done, drain them, and let them get thoroughly dry by the side of the fire ; then peel them, and, as they are peeled, put them into a clean saucepan, and with a large fork beat them to a light paste; add butter, milk, and salt in the above proportion, and stir all the ingredients well over the fire. When thorouglily , hot, dish them lightly, and draw the , fork backwards over the potatoes to , make the surface rough, and serve. ; When dressed in this manner, they may \ be browned at the top with a salamander, [ or before the fire. Some cooks press the t potatoes into moulds, then turn them out, and brown them in the oven : this is a pretty mode of serving, but it makes ^ them heavy. In whatever way they are sent to table, care must be taken to have, i them quite free from lumps. Time.— i From ^ to ^ hour to boil the potatoes.- ti Average cost, As. per bushel. Sufficient; to —1 lb. of mashed potatoes for 3 persons.-, it Seasonable at any time. POTATOES, Very Thin-mashed,l, \: or, Pur6e de Pommes de Terre. ^' Ingredients.—To every lb. of mashed i tir potatoes allow ^ pint of good broth or* 'a stock, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—BoW the ; i. potatoes, well drain them, and pound; r; them smoothly in a mortar, or beat them .■ up with a fork ; add the stock or broth, ^ and rub the potatoes through a sieve. , ti^ Put the purdo into a very clean sauce- - pan with the butter ; stir it well over : the fire until thoroughly hot, and it will ' then be ready to serve. A purde should be rather thinner than mashed potatoes, and is a delicious accompaniment to delicately broiled mutton cutlets. Creai'- or milk may be substituted for the brotb when the latter is not at hand. A casse* role of potatoes, which is often used for ragofits instead of rice, is made by mash- ing potatoes rather thickly, placing them on a dish, and making an opening in the • centre. After having browned the po* ■ | i tatoes in the oven, the dish shouM be' ' wiped clean, and the ragodt or frica-^s^e poured in. ymc—About -i hour to boil the potatoes; 6 or 7 minutes to warm the pur6e. Average cost, is. per bushel.