THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 803 Sandwiches, Victoria SANDWICHES, Victoria. Ingredients.—A eggs; their weight in pounded sugar, butter, and flour; :J salt- spoonful of salt, a layer of any kind of jam or marmalade. Mode.—BcsX tho butter to a cream; dredge in the flour and pounded sugar; stir theso ingre- dients well togther, and add the eggs, which should be previously thoroughly whisked. When the mixture has been well beaten for about 10 minutes, butter a Yoi-kshire-pudding tin, pour in the batter, and bake it in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Let it cool, spread one half of tho cake with a layer of nice pre- serve, place over it the other half of the cake, press the pieces slightly together, and then cut it into long finger-pieces ; pile them in crossbars, on a glass dish, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Is. ^d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SAUCES, General Eemarks upon. The preparation and appearance of sauces and gravies are of the highest consequence, and in nothing does the talent and taste of the cook more display itself. Their special adaptability to the various viands they are to accompany cannot be too much studied, in order that they may harmonize and blend with them as perfectly, so to speak, as does a pianoforte accompaniment with the voice of the singer. The general basis of most gravies and some sauces is the same stock as that used for soups ; and, by the employment of these, with, perhaps, an additional slice of ham, a little spice, a few herbs, and a slight flavouring from some cold sauce or ketchup, very nice gi'avies may be made for a very small expenditure. A milt (either of a bullock or sheep), the shank-end of mutton that has already been dressed, and the necks and feet of poultry may all be advantageously used for gravy, where much is not required. It may, then, bo established as a rule, that there exists no necessity for good gravies to be expensive, and that there is no occasion, as many would have the world believe, to buy ever so many pounds of fresh meat, in order to furnish an ever BO littlo quantity of gravy. Erown sauces, generally speaking, should scarcely be so thick as white sauces ; and \i is well to bear in mind, that all those which are intended to mask Sauce a la Matelote, for Fish. the various dishes of poultry or meatt should be of a sufficient consistency t slightly adhere to the fowls or joint., over which they are poured. For brown ing and thickening sauces, &;c., browne' flour may be properly employed. Sauces should possess a decided cha racter; and whether sharp or sweet savoury or plain, they should carry oul: their names in a distinct manner, al- though, of course, not so much flavourc as to make them too piquant on the one hand, or too mawkish on the other. Gravies and sauces should be sent to table very hot; and there is all the more necessity for the cook to see to this point, as, from their being usually served in small quantities, they are more liable to cool quickly than if they were in a larger body. Those sauces, of which cream or eggs form a component part, should be well stirred, as soon as these ingredients are added to them, and must. never be allowed to boil; as, in that case,, they would instantly curdle. SAUCE h L'AUEOBE, for Trout, Soles, &c. Ingredients.—The spawn of 1 lobster, 1 oz. of butter, .] pint of Bechamel, the juice of h lemon, a high seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mode.—Take the spawn and pound it in a mortar with the butter, until quite smooth, and work it through a hair sieve. Put the Bdchamcl into a stowpan, add the pounded spawn, the lemon-juice, which must bo strained, and a plentiful seasoning of cayenne and salt; let it just simmer, but do not allow it to boil, or the beautiful red colour of the sauce will be spoiled. A small spoon- ful of anchovy essence may bo added at pleasure. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. Suffi- cient for a pair of lai'ge soles. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE a, la MATELOTE, for Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of Espngnole, 3 onions, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, .3 glass of port wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, A bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, I clove, 2 berries of allspice, a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled, lemon-juice, and an- chovy sauce. Mode.—Slice and fry tho onions of a nice brown colour, and put them into a stewpan with tho Espagnole, ketchup, wine, and a little liquor in