370 THE DICTIONARY OP C00KEE7. "Wino, to Mull is on the point of bimmerinf''; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instimtly curdle. This sauco is delicious with plum, marrow, or bread puddings ; but should bo served separately, and not poured over the pudding. Time.—From 5 to 7 minutes to thiclvcn the butter; about 6 minutes to stir the sauco over the fire. Average cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. ■WINE, to MiiU. Ingredients.—To eveiy pint of wine allow 1 large cupful of water, sugar, and spice to taste. Mode.—In making pre- parations like the above, it is very diffi- cult to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and siiico, as what quantity might suit one person would be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until the flavour is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to the boiling-point, ■when serve with strips of crisp dry toast, or with biscuits. The spices usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nut- meg, and cinnamon or mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are those usually selected for the purpose ; and the latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled in must be deU- cately clean, and should be kept exclu- sively for the purpose. Small tin warmers may be purchased for a trifle, which are more suitable than saucepans, as, if the latter are not scrupulously clean, they will spoil the wine, by imparting to it a very disagreeable fiavour. These warmers should bo used for no other purposes. WOODCOCK, Boast. Ingredients. — Woodcocks ; butter, flour, toast. Mode.—Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trails are, by epi- cures, considered a great delicacy. Pluck, and wipe them well outside; truss them BOAST •WOODCOCK. with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressinor upon the thighs; skin the nock and iiead, and bring the beak Yeast-Cake round under the wing. Place sone sliq^ of toast in the dripjjing-pan to catch ti traiiu, allowing a piece of to.asl for eai bird. Roast before a clear fire from to 25 minutes ; keep them well baste and flour and froth them nicely. Wh' done, dish the pieces of toust with t; birds upon them, and pour round a ve littio gravy ; send some more to tuljle a tureen. These are most delicious bin when well cooked ; but they should n be kept too long: when the feathe drop, or easily come out, they are fit f for table. Time.—When liked unde done, 15 to 20 minutes; if liked wc. done, allow an extra 5 minutes. A'cera cost.—Seldom bought. SujjicieiU.—2 f< a dish. Seasonable from Kovember ■ i February. WOODCOCK. This bird, like a partridge, may I carved by cutting it exactly into tw like portions, or made into three helj. ings, as described in carving part- f^/^^^T^r^ ridge. The back- '^x^^V bone is considered the tit-bit of a ^ —^ry.^. woodcock, and by woodcock. many the thigh is also thought a great delicacy. This bir is served in the manner advised V> Brillat Savarin, in connection with th pheasant, viz., on toast which h;is r(: cuivod its (?-ippings whilst roasting; an a piece of this t()ast should iuvariabl accompany each plate. WOODCOCK, SCOTCH. Ingredients. — A few slices of he buttered toast; allow 1 anchovy to eac slice. For the sauce,—.} pint of creau the yolks of 3 eggs. il/ot?e.—Separat the yolks from the whites of the eggs beat the former, stir to them the crearr and bring the sauce to the boihng-poini" but do not allow it to boil, or it wi curdle. Have ready some hot buttere toast, spread with anchovies pounded t a paste ; pour a littio of the hot sauce o the top, and servo very hot and ver quickly. Time. —5 minutes to make tli sauce hot. Si'fficicnl.—AUo'w h slice t each person. Seasonable at any time. YEAST-CAKLE. Inijredie7its.—lh lb. cf flour, h lb. n butter. I pint of milk. Li tablc>i-i'!!!