THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Yorkshire PUDDING, Yorkshire, to serve with hot Koast Beef. Ingredients.—Ih pint of milk, C large Lablespoonfuls of'fiour, 3 eg-gs, 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin with the salt, and stir gradually to this enough milk to make 't into a stiff batter. When this is per- fectly smooth, and all the lumps are well TOBKSHIBB PTJDDINa. nibbed down, add the remainder of the ailk and the eggs, which should be well seaten. Beat the mixtm'e for a few ninutes, and pour it into a shallow tin, vhich has been previously well rubbed ivith beef dripping. Put the pudding nto the oven, and bake it for an hour ; ;hen, for another i hour, i^lace it under he meat, to catch a little of the gravy ;hat flows from it. Cut the pudding nto small square pieces, put them on a lot dish, and serve. If the meat is Daked, the pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the meat on I small three-cornered stand. Time.— 1^ hour. Average cost, Id. Sufficient 'or 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any ;ime. PUFP.PASTE RINGS, or Puits d'Amour. Ingredients.—Puff'-paste {see Paste), the ivhito of an egg, sifted loaf sugar. Mode. —JIake some good puff-pasto by recipe ; roll it out to the thickness of about \ inch, and, with a round fluted paste- iutter, stamp out as many pieces as may 36 required; then work the paste up igain, and roll it out to the same thick- less, and with a smaller cutter, stamp )ut sufficient pieces to correspond with ;he larger ones. Again stamp out the ;entro of these smaller rings; brush 5ver the others with the white of an egg, place a small ring on the top of every .argo circular piece of paste, egg over ;ho tops, and bake from 1.5 to 20 minutes. Sift over sugar, put them back in the )ven to colour them ; then fill the rinj^s !rith preserve of any bright colour. Dish ihcm high on a napkin, and serve. So nany pretty diahes of pastry may be Tiftdo by stamping puff-pasto out with Punch, to make Hoc fancy cutters, and filling the piecbs, when baked, with jelly or preserve, that our space will not allow us to give a separate recipe for each of them ; but as they are all made from one paste, and only the shape and garnishing varied, perhaps it is not necessary, and by exercising a little ingenuity, variety may always be obtained. Half-moons, leaves, diamonds, stars, shamrocks, rings, &c., are the most appropriate shapes for fancy pastry. Time.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, with h lb. of paste. Is. Sufficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. PTJMPKIKT, Preserved. Ingredients.—To each lb. of pumpkin allow 1 lb. of roughly pounded loaf sugar, 1 gill of lemon-juice. Mode.— Obtain a good sweet pumpkin ; halve it, take out the seeds, and pare off the rind; cut it into neat slices, or into pieces about the size of a five-shilling piece. Weigh the pumpkin, put the slices in a pan or deep dish in layers, with the sugar sprinkled between them ; pour the lemon-juice over the top, and let the whole remain for 2 or 3 days. Boil altogether, adding ^ pint of water to every 3 lbs. of sugar used, until the pumpkin becomes tender; then turn the whole into a pan, where let it re- main for a week; then drain off the syrup, boil it until it is quite thick ; skim, and pour it, boiling, over the pumpkin. A little bruised ginger and lemon-rind, thinly pared, may be boiled in the syrup to flavour the pumpkin. Time.—From h to | hour to boil the pumpkin tender. Average cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Seasonable in September and October; but bettor when made in the latter month, as the pumpkin is then quite ripe. iVote.—Vegetable marrows are very good prepared in the same manner, bub are not quite so rich. PUNCH, to make Hot. Ingredients.—}> pint of rum, J pint of brandy, ^ lb. of'sugar, 1 large lemon, .J teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode.—Rub the sugar over the lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of tl^e skin, then put the sugar into a pun(lib)wl; add the lemon- iuico (free from pips), and mis. thcao