12i THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Joprocnt of any child whatever. gradually to make its food more i Food for Infanta Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of epper, and serve the fondue on a very ot silver or metal plate. Do not allow the fondue to remain on the fire after the mi.xture is set, as, if it boils, it will bo entirely spoiled. Brillat Savarin re- commends that some choice Burgundy should be handed round with this dish. We have given this recipe exactly as he recommends it to be made ; but we have tried it with good Cheshire cheese, and found it answer remarkably well. Time. —About 4 minutes to set the mixture. Average cost, for4 persons, lOd. Sufficient. —Allow 1 egg, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 1 person. Seasonable at any time. FOOD FOR INFANTS, and its Preparation. The articles generally employed as food for infants consist of arrowroot, bread, flour, baked flour, prepared groats, fari- naceous food, biscuit-powder, biscuits, tops-and-bottoms, and semolina, or manna croup, as it is otherwise called, which, like tapioca, is the prepared pith of certain vegetable substances. Of this list the least efficacious, though, perhaps, the most believed in, is arrowroot, which only as a mere agent, for change, and then only for a very short time, should ever be employed as a means of diet to infancy or childhood. It is a thin, flatu- lent, and innutritious food, and incapable of supporting infantine life and energy. Bread, though the universal regime with the labouring poor, where the infant's stomach and digestive powers are a re- flex, in miniature, of the father's, should never be given to an infant under three months, and, even then, however finely beaten up and smoothly made, is a very questionable diet. Flour, when well boiled, though infinitely better than arrowroot, is still only a kind of fer- mentative paste, that counteracts its own good by after-acidity and flatulence. Baked flour, when cooked into a pale brown mass, and finely powdered, makes a far superior food to the others, and may be considered as a very useful diet, especially for a change. Prepared groats may be classed with arrowroot and raw flour, as being inuutritious. The articles that now follow on our list are all good, and such as wo could, with conscience and safety, ti-ust to the health and dovo- Food for Infants Wo m.ay observe in this place, that « occasional change in the character of ; ; food is highly desirable, both as rega.i a the health and benefit of the child ; a.: though the interruption should o i last for a day, the change will be . vantageous. The packets sold as farinaceous f( are unquestionably the best aliment t . can be given from the first to a baby,; . may be continued, with the exceptioi an occasional change, without alterat of the material, till the child is able take its regular meals of animal : - vegetable food. Some infants are constituted as to require a frequent : a total change in their system of livi seeming to thrive for a certain time any food given to them, but if perseve in too long, declining in bulk and pearance as rapidly as they had previoi. ^. progressed. In such cases, the ffi j . should be immediately changed, ; i , when that which appeared to as^ree lii with the child is resumed, it shouldu jjj^" altered in its quality, and perhaps van ^ consistency. For the farinaceous food there ^, directions with each packet, contain • instructions for the making ; but, wl ever the food emploj'ed is, enough she be made at once to last the day night; at first, about a pint basin. but, as the child advances, a quart hardly be too much. In all cases, . the food boil a suflicient time, constai stirring, and taking every prccau' that it does not get burnt, in which (. it is on no account to be used. The food should always be made tt water, the whole sweetened at once, of such a consistency that, when poi out, and it has had time to cool, it cut with the firmness of a pudding, custard. One or two spoonfuls are tr^ put into the pap saucepan and s;ooc: . ' the hob till the heat has softened ^ when enough milk is to be added, carefully mixed with the food, till , whole has the consistency of ordir cream ; it is then to be poured into nursing-bottle, and the food ha- drawn through to warm the ni: to be placed in the child's mouiii. » the first month or more, half a botth* will be quite enough to give the •' at one time ; but, as the child frrow^ will be necessary not only to iii< ' quantitj' given at each time,