851 THE DlCTIONAllY OP COOKERlf. VEAIi CUILET3, Veal Cutlets (an Entree) boiled rice. The curry may bo orna- mented with pickles, capsicums, and gherkins, arranged prettily on the top. Time..—^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL CUTLETS (an Entree). Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of the prime part of the leg of veal, egg and bread- crumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of minced sa- voury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a small piece of l:)utter. Mode.—Have the veal cut into slices about ^ of an inch in thickness, and, if not cut perfectly even, level the meat with a cutlet-bat or rolling-pin. Shape and trim the cutlets, and brush them over with egg. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, with which have been mixed minced herbs and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and press the crumbs down. Fry them of a delicate brown in fresh lard or butter, and be careful not to burn them. They should be very thoroughly done, but not dry. If the cutlets be thick, keep the pan covered for a few minutes at a good distance Irom the fire, after they have acquired a good colour: by this means, the meat will be done through. Lay the cutlets in a dish, keep them hot, and make a gravy in the pan as follows :—Dredge in a little flour, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, brown it, then pour as much boiling water as is required over it, season with pepper and salt, add a little Icmon-juico, give one boil, and pour it over the cut- lets. They should be garnished with slices of broiled bacon, and a few force- meat balls will be found a very excellent addition to this dit^h. Time.—For cut- lets of a moderate thickness, about 12 minutes ; if very thick, allow more time. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. Svjiicient for G persons. Seasonable from Miuroh to October. Note.—Veal cutlets may bo merely floured and fried of a nice brown : tbo gravy and garnishing should bo the same as in iho precuiling reci|iO. They may also bo cut from the loia or nock, as ■howD in the engraving. Veal, Fillet of, au Bechamel 1 VEAL CUTLETS, BroUed, & j Italienno (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—Neck of veal, salt atj pepper to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, brea« crumbs, ,^ pint of Italian sauce. Mom —Cut the veal into cutlets, flatten axj trim them nicely; powder over them little salt and pepper; brush them ov with the yolk of an egg, dip them bread-crumbs, then into clarified butteJ and, afterwards, in the bread-crumM again ; boil or f ry them over a clear fini that they may acquire a good brovj colour. Arrange them in the dish alt nately with rashers of broiled ham, an pour the sauce (made by recipe for It sauce, p. 305) in the middle. Time.— to 15 minutes, fCCOi'ding to the thicl of the cutlets. A vcrage cost, \Qd. perl Seasonable from March to October, VEAL CUTLETS, h la Mainteno (an Entree). Ingredien ts.—2 or 3 lbs. of veal cutlet: egg and bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfi of minced savoury herbs, salt and pepp- to taste, a little grated nutmeg. Mo -Cut the cutlets about i inch in thiu ness, flatten them, and brush them ov j| .- with the yolk of an egg ; dip them in:.^': bread-crumbs and minced herbs, seasi with pepper and salt and prated nutme* and fold each cutlet in a piece of butter- paper. Broil them, and send them table with melted butter or a good graW Time.—From 15 to 18 minutes. Avert cost, \0d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 o; persons. Seasonable from March October. VEAL, Fillet of, au B^chaitn (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, pint of b(^chamcl sauce, a few brer crumbs, clarified butter. Mode.—A fil . of veal that has been roasted the p n ceding day will answer very well for t' dish. Cat the middle out rather de< leaving a pood margin round, from whi to cut nice slices, and if there should any cracks in the veal, fill them up w forcemeat. Jlince finely the meat tl was taken out, mixing with it a little the forcemeat to flavour, and stir to sufl^icient bdcliamol to make it of jiroper consistency. Warm the veal the oven for about an hour, takiii;,' a to baste it woll, that it may P"t be dr.