389 Stewed Fillet of Veal. cayenne should also be placed on the table, so that when the carver separates the shoulder from the ribs, they may be ready for his use ; if, however, he should not bo very expert, the cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. A FRENCH MODE OF COOKING ARTICHOKES. Ingredients.—5 or 6 artichokes ; to each § gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. J/ofZe.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems ; put the artichokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepper, herbs, and butter; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. To keep them a beautiful green, put a large piece of cinder into a muslin bag, and let it boil with them. Serve with plain melted butter. BOILED ASPARAGUS. Ingredients.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; asparagus. Mode.—Asparagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water ; yet, to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape the white part of the stems, hef/inning from the head, and throw them into cold water ; then tie them into bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one way, and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length ; put them into hoiling water, with salt in the above proportion ; keep them boiUng quickly until tender, with the saucepan uncovered. When the asparagus is done, dish it upon toast, which should be dipped into the water it was cooked in, and leave the white ends outwards each way, with the points meeting in the middle. Sen o with a tureen of melted butter. STEWED FILLET OP VEAL. Ingredients.—A small fillet of veal, forcemeat, thickening of butter and flour, a few mushrooms, white pepper to taste. 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, 2 blades of pounded mace, h, glass of sheny, h pint of weak stock. Mode.—If the whole of the leg is purchased, take off the knuckle to stew, and also the square end, which will serve for cutlets or pies. Remove the bone, and fill the space with a forcemeat. Roll and skewer it up firmly; place a few skewers at the bottom of the stewpan to prevent the meat from sticking, and cover the veal with a little weak stock. Let it simmer very (jenilij until tender, as the more slowly veal is stewed the better. Strain and thicken the sauce, flavour it with lemon-juice, mace, sherry, and white pepper; give one boil, and