THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 82 Cod's Head and Shoulders COD'S HEAD & SHOULDERS. Ingredients.—SufBciont water to cover the hsh; 5 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish tho- roughly, and rub a little salt over the thick part and inside of the fish 1 or 2 hours before dressing it, as this very much improves the flavour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it. Be very particular not to {lOur the water ou the fish, as it is liable 0 break it, and only keep it just simmer- ing. If the water should boil away, add a little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt in the above proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim very care- fully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it out and drain it; servo on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and horse- radish. Time.—According to size, ^ an hour, more or less. Average cost, from 3s. to 6s. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—Oyster sauce and plain melted butter should be served with this. GOD'S HEAD & SHOULDEES, to Carve. First run the knife along the centre of the side of the fish, namely, from d to h, down to the bone ; then carve it in un- Cofifee, Nutritious m broken slices downwards from d to e, or upwards from d to c, as shown in the engraving. The carver should ask the guests if they would like a portion of the roe and liver. Note.—Of this fish, the parts about the backbone af d shoulders are the firmest and most esteemed by connoisseurs. The sound, which lines the fish beneath the backbone, is considered a delicacy, aa are also the gelatiuous parts about the head and Bock. COFFEE, Essence of. Ingredients.—To every ^ lb. of ground coflfee allow 1 small teaspoonful of pow- dered chicory, 3 small teacupfuls, or 1 pint, of water. Mode.—Let the coffee bo freshly ground, and, if possible, freshly roasted ; put it into a percolator, or filter, with the chicory, and pour slowly over it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has all filtered through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring it to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil; then filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, cork it well, and it will remain good for several days. Two tablespoonfuls of this essence are quite sufficient for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. This essence will be found particularly useful to those persons who have to rise extremely early ; and having only the milk to make boiling, is very easily and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour another 3 tea- cui^fuls of boiling water slowly on the grounds, which, when filtered through, will be a very weak coffee. The next time there is essence to be prepared, make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the ground- coffee instead of plain water: by this means a better coffee win be obtained. Never throw away the grounds without having made use of them in this manner; and always cork the bottle well that contains this prepara- tion, until the day that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. Time.—To bo filtered once, then brought to the boiling-point, and filtered again. Average cost, with coffee at Is. 8cZ. per lb., (id. Sufficient.—Allow 2 tablespoonfuls for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. COFFEE, Nutritious. Ingredients.—^ oz. of gi'ound coffee, 1 pint of milk. Slode.—Let ohe coffee bo freshly groxmd; put it 'un a saucepan with the milk, whicb *!,ould bo made nearly boiling beforo V.na coffee is put in, and boil together foi'd minutes ; clear it by pouring some of it into a cup, and then back again, and leavo it on the hob for a few minutes to settle thoroughly. This coffee may be ma'ln still nioi-e nu- tritious by the addition of an egg well beaten, and put into the coflce-cup. Time.—5 minutes to bni), 5 minutes to settle. Sufficient to make 1 large break- fast-cupful of coffee. 4