THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKEEY. 290 llice Pudding, French fi-esh fruit. Time.—1 hour to boil tho I'ico without the fruit; 1 hour, or longer, afterwards. Average cost, Qd. Sufficie7it for 6 or 7 children, Seasonalle at any time. Ifote.—This pudding is very good made with apples; they should be pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. BICE PUDDING, French, or Ga- teau de Biz. Ingredients,—To every ^ lb. of rice allow 1 quart of milk, the rind of 1 lemon, h teaspoonful of salt, sugar to taste, 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs, bread crumbs. Mode.—Put the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-rind, and let it infuse for ^ hour, or until the former is well flavoured ; then take out the peel, have ready the rice washed, picked, and drained ; put it into the mUk, and let it gradually swell over a very slow fire. Stir in the butter, salt, and sugar, and, when properly sweetened, add the yolks of the eggs, and then the whites, both of which should be well beaten, and added separately to the rico. Butter a mould, strew in some fine bread crumbs, and let them be spread equally over it; then carefully pour in the rice, and bake the pudding in a slow oven for 1 hour. Turn it out of the mould, and garnish the dish with preserved cherries, or any bright- coloured jelly or jam. This pudding would ba exceedingly nice flavoured with essence of vanilla. Tiine.—J to 1 hour for the rice to swell ; to be baked 1 hour in a slow oven. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. EICE PUDDING, Baked or Boiled Ground. Ingredients.—2 pints of milk, 6 table- ^■poonfuls of ground rice, sugar to taste, d eggs, flavouring of lemon-rind, nut- meg, bitter-almonds or bay-leaf. Mode. —Put 1 ^ pint of the milk into a stewpan with any of the above flavourings, and bring it to tho boiling point, and, with the other h pint of milk, mix the ground rice to a smooth batter ; strain tho boil- ing milk to this, and stir over tho fire until the mixture is tolerably thick; then pour it into a basin, leave it un- covered, and when nearly or quite cold sweeten it to taste, and add the eggs, which should be previously well beaten, with a little salt. Put the pudding into Bico Puddings, Miniature a well-buttered basin, tie it down witl cloth, plunge it into boiling water, a boil for 1^ hour. For a baked puddir. proceed m precisely the same manni only using half the above proportion ground rico, with the same quantity all the other ingredients : an hour w bake the pudding in a moderate ove Stewed fruit, or preserves, or marmalac may bo served with either tho boiled baked pudding, and will be found i improvement. Tirne.—1^ hour to bo 1 hour to bake. Average cost, 10 Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons?. Seasonal at any time. BICE PUDDING, Iced, Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart milk, ^ lb. of sugar, the yolks of 6 egg 1 small teaspoonful of essence of vanill Mode.—Put the rice into a stewpan, wit the milk and sugar, and let these simm' over a gentle fire until the rice is sir ciently soft to break up into a smo' mass, and should the milk dry away t much, a little more may be added. S the rice occasionally, to prevent its bur ing, then beat it to a smooth mixture add the j'olks of the eggs, which shoul be well whisked, and the vaniUa (shoul this flavouring not be liked, essence < bitter almonds may be substituted f it); put this rice custard into the free ing-pot, and proceed as directed in 1: recipe for Iced Pudding. When wan:' for table, turn tho pudding out of t mould, and pour over the top and rou . it a compOte of oranges, or any oth£ liiilt that may be preferred, taking car that the fl.avouring in the pudding bar monizes well with the fruit that i served with it. Time.—.J hour to frci the mixture. Average cost, Is. 6rf.; c elusive of the compOte, Is. id. Seaso able.—Served all the year roimd. BICE PUDDINGS, Miniature. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, li pint milk, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, sul' to taste, flavouring of lemon-peel, bit i almonds, or vanilla; a few strips of cr died peel. Mode.—Let the rico > in 1 pint of the milk over a sl^ putting with it a strip of icmuii , stir to it the butter and the other h ) ■ of milk, and let the mixture cool. Tli add the well-beaten eggs, and a few iln i of essence of almonds or essence of ^ nilla, whichever may bo preferred ; bi.