THE DTCTTOXAEY OF COOKERY. 179 Leek Soup lis are by many persons esteenied a .it iloliuaoy. and may heeitber roasted hroiled. Pick, gut, and clean them ; en they are trussed, brush them over h the yolk of an egg ; sjirinkle with ad crumbs, and roast them befoi-e a ck tire ; baste them continually with ill butter, and keep sprinkling with bread cinmbs until the birds are well ered. Uish them on bread crumbs id in clarified butter, and garnish the 1 with slices of lemon. Broiled larks also very excellent: they should be ked over a clear fire, and vwuld take ut 10 minutes or ^ hour. Time.— our to roast; 10 minutes to broil. nonahle.—In full season in November, k'ote. — Larks may also be plainly sted, without covering them with egg bread crumbs; they should be dished fried crumbs. EK SOUP. ngredients.—A sheep's head, 3 quarts ivater, 12 leeks cut small, pepper and . to taste, oatmeal to thicken. Mode. pare the head, either by skinning or ming the skin very nicely ; split it in ; take out the brains, and put it into ing water; add the leeks and season- and simmer very gently for 4 hours. : smoothly, with cold water, as much nneal as will make the soup tolerably ik ; pour it into the soup; continue ring till the whole is blended and well e, and eerve. Time.—4^ hours. Ave- e cost, Ad. per quart. Seasonable in ter. Sufficient lor 10 persons. IMOlSr BISCUITS. ngredients.—1;} lb. of flour, f lb. of ' sugar, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, z. of lemon-peel, 2 des.sert-spoontuls lemon-juice. Mode.—Rub the flour ) the butter; stir in the pounded ar and very tinely-minced lemon-peel, I when these ingredients are tho- ghly mixed, add the eggs, which uld bo previously well whisked, and lemon-juice. Beat the mixture well a minute or two, then drop it from a on on to a buttered tin, about 2 inches irt, as the cakes will spread when they warm ; place the tin in the oven, and ce the cakes of a pale brown from 15 IQ minutes. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. erage cost, 1». Gd, Seasonable at any le. Lemon Cake LEMON BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, 1^ oz. of fresh butter, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of 2, h oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Make a custard, with the yolks of the eggs and pint of the milk, and when done, put it into a basin; put half the re- mainder of the milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, fresh butter, lemon-rind, and „ 5> fl „ BIANCMANGB MOULD. 6 OZ. of the sugar, and let tntjse ingredients boil until the mixture is stiff, stirring them con- tinually ; when done, pour it into the bowl where the custard is, mixing both well together. Put the gelatine with the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the tire to dissolve ; boil for a minute or tvco, stir carefully into the basin, adding 3 oz. more of pounded sugar. When cold, stir in the lemon-juice, which should be carefully strained, and pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, leaving ovit the lemon- peel, and set the mould in a pan of cold water until wanted for table. Use eggs that have rich-looking yolks; and, ^.hould the weather be very warm, rather a lai'ger proportion of gelatine must be allowed. Time.—Altogether, h hour. Average cost, Is, 6d. Sufficient to fill 2 small moulds. SeasonaXle at any time. LEMON CAKE. Ingredients.—10 eggs, 3 tablespoonfnls of orange-tlower water, ^ lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lemon, j lb. of flour. Mode. —Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; whisk the former to a stiff froth ; add the orange-flower water, the sugar, grated lemon- rind, and mix these ingredients well to- gether. Then beat the yolks of the eggs, and add them, with the lemon, juice, to the cakb-mouli,. whites, &c. ; dredge in the tiour grad lally; keep beating the mixture well; put it into a buttered