S8 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Beef Bissoles Time.—For lOlbs. of the rolled ribs, 3 hours (as the joint is very solid, we havo allowed an extra h hour); for 6 lbs., 1.^ hour. Average cost, 9d. per lb. Szif- ficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. JVote.—When the weight exceeds 10 lbs., we would not advise the above method of bosing or rolling ; only in the case of 1 or 2 ribs, when the joint cannot stand upright in the dish, and would look awkwardly. The bones should be put on with a few vegetables and herbs, and made into stock. BEEP RISSOLES. [Cold Meat Cookery.] IngredienU. —The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allow \ lb. of bread irumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herbs, | a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, ac- cording to the quantity of meat. Mode. —Mince the beef veiy fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread crumbs, herbs, seasoning, and lemon- peel, in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs ; divide into balls or cones, and fiy a rich brown. Garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send to table some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of garnishing with fried parsley, gravy may be poured in the dish round the rissoles ; in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tm-een. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to size. Average cost, exclu- sive of the meat, 5d. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Holled, to eat like Hare. Ingredients.—About 5 lbs. of the in- side of the sirloin, 2 glasses of port wine, 2 glasses of vinegar, a small quan- tity of forcemeat, 1 teaspoonful of pounded allspice. Mode.—Take the in- side of a largo sirloin, soak it in 1 glass of port wine and 1 glass of vinegar, mixed, and let it remain for 2 days. Make a forcemeat {see Forcemeat), lay it on the meat, and bind it up securely. Roast it before a nice clear lire, and baste it with 1 glass each of port wine and vinegar, with which mix a teaspoon- ful of pounded allspice. Servo, with a good gi'avy in the dish, and send red- currant jelly to table with it. Time.— A piece of 6 lbs, about l.J hour before a Beef, Boiled Bound of brisk fire. A verage cost, for this quantity, 5s. id. Sufficient for 4 persons. Season/- able at any time. BEEP ROLLS. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredientt. —The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and minced herbs ; pufF paste. Mode.— Mince the beef tolerably fine with a small amount of its own fat; add a sea- soning of pepper, salt, and chopped herbs; put the whole into a roll of puff paste, and bake for ^ hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large. Beef patties may be made of cold meat, by mincing and seasoning beef as di- rected above, and baking in a rich puff paste in patty-tins. Time.—^ hour. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Boiled Round of. Ingredients.—Beef, water. Mode.—As a whole round of beef, generally speaking, ' is too large for small families, and very seldom required, we here give the recipe for dressing a portion of the silver side of the round. Take from 12 to 16 lbs., after it has been in salt about 10 days; just wash off the salt, skewer it up in a nice round-looking fom, and bind it with tape to keep the skewers in their places. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it upon a good fire, and when it begins to boil, carefully remove all scum from the surface, as, if this is not at- tended to, it sinks on to the meat, and, when brought to table, presents a very unsightly appearance. After it is well skimmed, draw the pot to the corner of the fire, allow the liquor to cool, then let the beef simmer very gently until done. Remove the tape and skewers, which should be replaced by a silver one; pour over a little of the pot- liquor, and garnish with carrots. Car- rots, turnips, i^arsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings, accompany this dish; and these may all be boiled with the beef. The pot-liquor should be saved, and converted into pea-soup ; and the outside slices, which are goierally l"^']^^ and of an uninviting appearance, maj' b(f» cut off before being sent to table, and ! potted. These make an excellent relish •' for the breakfast or luncheon table. - Time.—Vixvi of a round of beef weighing : 12 lbs., about 3 hours after the water boils. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficteiii -