THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 10« Dormers Chilrlotto aux Ponimos, Compote of Pears. Crotltcs madrdcs aux Fruits, Pastrj', Punch Jelly. Iced Puddiug. Dessert and Ices, DOBMEnS. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —\ lb. of cold mutton, 2 oz. of beef suet, pepjiGV and salt to taste, 3 oz. of boiled rice, 1 egg', bread crumbs, made gravy. Mode.—Chop the meat, suet, and rice linely; mix well tos-pther, and add a high seasoning of pepper and salt, and roll into sausages ; cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot drip- ping of a nice brown. Serve in a dish with made gravy poured round them, and a little in a tureen. Time.—| hour to fry the sausages. Average cost, exclu- sive of the meat, Gd, Seasonable at any time. DRAUGHT for Summer. Ingredients.—The juice of 1 lemon, a tumblerful of cold water, pounded sugar to taste, ^ small teaspoonful of carjjon- ate of soda. Mode.—Squeeze the juice from the lemon ; strain, and add it to the water, with sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. When well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink while the mixtui'e is in an effer- vescing state. DBIWK, Pleasant, for Warm Wea- ther. Ingredients.—To every h pint of good ale allow 1 bottle of ginger beer. Mode. —For this beverage the ginger beer must be in an eflbrvescing state, and the beer not in the least turned or sour. Mix them together, and di-ink immediately. The draught is refreshing and wholesome, as the ginger corrects the action of the beer. It docs not deteriorate by stand- ing a little, but, of course, is better when taken fresh. DniPPINGr, to Clarify. Good and fresh dripping answers very well for basting everything except game and poultry, and, when well clarified, serves for frying nearly as well as lard ;'t should be kept in a cool place, and wdl lemain good some time. To clarify it jiut the dripping into a basin, pour over it boiling water, and keep stirring the T^liole to wash away the inipuritios. Let Ducks, Hoast it stand to cool, when the water and dirty sediment will settle at the bottom of tlie basin. Remove the dripping, and put it away in jars or basins for use. Another Way.—Pat the dripping into a clean saucepan, and let it boil for a few minutes over a slow fire, and be careful to skim it well. Let it stand to cool a little, then strain it through a piece of muslin into jars for use. Leet dripping is preferable to any other for cooking purposes, as, with mutton drip- ping, there is liable to bo a tallowy taste and smell. DUCK, Hashed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or water, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, thickening of butter and flour, salt and cayenne to taste, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon- peel, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, h glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut the duck into nice joints, and put the tnm- mings into a stewpan ; slice and fry the onion in a little butter; add thf se to the trimmings, pour in the above proportion of weak stock or water, and stew gontly for 1 hour. Strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, season with salt and caj'enne, and add the I'emaining in- gredients ; boil it up and skim well; lay in the pieces of duck, and let them get thoroughly hot through by the side of the fire, but do not allow them to boil: they should soak in the gravy for about h hour. Garnish with sippets of toasted Bread. The hash may be made richer by using a stronger and more highly- flavoured gravy ; a little spice or pounded mace may also be added, when their flavour is liked. Time.—1^ hour. Aver- age cost, exclusive of cold duck, id. Seasonable from November to Febniiry; ducklings from May to August. DUCKS, Hoast. Ingredients.—A couple of ducks; s.ago- and-bnion stuffing; a little flonr. Choos- ing and Trussing.—Choof^e ducks with plump bellies, aud with thick aiid yel- lowish feet. They should be trussed with the feet on, which should be scalded, and the skin peeled off, aud then turned up close to the legs. Rdu a skewer through the middle of each log, after having drawn the» as dloi-'j as