809 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Sausage or Meat Kolls cided by individual palates, they must be left, to a great extent, to the discrimi- nation of the cook, who should study her employer's taste in this as in evei-y other respect. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for a small turkey. SAUSAGE OB MEAT BOLLS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of puff-paste, sau- eage-meat, the yolk of 1 egg. Mode.— Make 1 lb. of puff-paste; roll it owt to the tluckness of about ^ inch, or rather less, and divide it into 8, 10, or 12 squares, according to the size the rolls are intended to be. Place Bome sausage-meat on one-half of each square, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over the meat; slightly press the edges together, and trim them neatly with a knife. Brush the rolls over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them in a well-heated oven for about ^ hour, or longer should they be very large. The remains of cold chicken and ham, minced and seasoned, as also cold veal or beef, make veiy good rolls. Time.—\ hour, or longer if the rolls are large". Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient.—1 lb. of paste for 10 or 12 rolls. Seasonable, with sausage-meat, from September to March or April. SAUSAGES. Beef. Ingredients.—To every lb. of suet allow 2 lbs. of lean beef, seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mode.—Clear the suet from skin, and chop that and the beef as finely as possible ; season with pepper, salt, and spices, and mix the whole well to- gether. Make it into flat cakes, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mortar after it is chopped; but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. Time.— 10 minutes. Average cost, for this quan- tity. Is. Qd. Seasonable at any time. SAUSAGES, Fried. Ingredients.—Sausages: a small piece of butter. Mode.—Vrick the sausages with a fork (this prevents them from bursting), and put them into a frying- PBIBD SAUSAGES. pan with a small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about, apd turn ^the Sausages, Veal sausages 3 or 4 times. In from 10 to 12 minutes they will be suffi- ciently cooked, unless they are very large, when a little more time should be allowed for them. Dish them with or without a piece of toast under them, and serve very hot. In some counties, sausages are boiled and served on toast. They should be plunged into boiling water, and simmered for about 10 or 12 minutes. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average cost, \0d. per lb. Seasonable.— Good from September to March. Note.—Sometimes, in close warm weather, sausages very soon turn sour; to prevent this, put them in the oven for a few minutes with a small piece of butter to keep them moist. When wanted for table, they will not require BO long frying as uncooked sausages. SAUSAGES, Pork (Author's Ox- ford Becipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle ; 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, ^ lb. of bread- crumbs, the rind of ^ lemon, 1 small nutmeg, 6 sage-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, ^ tea- spoonful of savory, ^ teaspoonful of marjoram. Mode.—Chop the pork, veal, and suet finely together, add the bread-crumbs, lemon-peel (which should be well minced), and a small nutmeg grated. Wash and chop the sage- leaves very finely; add these with the remaining ingi-edients to the sausage- meat, and when thoroughly mixed, either put the meat into skins, or, when wanted for table, form it into little cakes, which should be floured and fried. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for about 30 moderate- sized sausages. Seasonable from October to March. SAUSAGES, Veal. Ingredients.—EqnaX quantitifaj of fat bacon and lean veal; to every lb. of meat, allow 1 teaspoonful of minced- sage, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.— Chop the meat and bacon finely, and to every lb. allow the above proportioti of very finely-minced sago; add a sea- soning of pepper and salt, mix the whole well together, make it into flat cakes, and fry a nice brown, Seasonab from March to October,