THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 317 Sole or Cod Pie Bugar, 1 teacupf ul of milk, 3 eggs, 1 tea- Bpoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.— Kub the butter into the flour, add the currants and sugar, and mix these ingre- dients well together. Whisk the eggs well, stir them to the flour, &c., with the milk, in which the soda should be pre- viously dissolved, and beat the whole up together with a wooden spoon or beater. Divide the dough into two pieces, put them into buttered moulds or cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The mixture must be extremely well beaten up, and not allowed to stand after the soda is add&d to it, but must be placed in the oven immediately. Great care must also be taken that the cakea are quite done through, which may be ascertained by thrusting a knife into the middle of them : if the blade looks bright when withdrawn, they are done. If the tops acquire too much colour before the inside is sufficiently baked, cover them over with a piece of clean white paper, to prevent them from burning. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient to make 2 small cakes. Seasonable at any time. SOLE OR COD PIE. Ingredients.—The remains of cold boiled Bole or cod, seasoning to taste of pepper. Bait, and pounded mace, 1 dozen oystei's to each lb. of fish, 3 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 1 teacupful of ci-eam thick- ened with flour, puff paste. Mode.— Clear the fish from the bones, lay it in a pie-dish, and between each layer put a few oysters and a little seasoning; add the stock, and, when liked, a small quan- tity of butter; cover with puflf paste, and bake for i hour. Boil the cream with sufficient flour to thicken it; pour in the pie, and serve. Time.—^ hour. Average cost for this quantity, lO"^. Sufficient lor 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOLES, to Choose. This fish should bo both thick and firm. If the skin is difficult to be taken off, and the tiesh looks grey, it is good, SOLES, Baked. Ingredients.—2 soles, \ lb. of butter, egg, and bread-crumbs, minced parsley, 1 glass of sherry, lemon-juice ; cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Cle&n, skin, and well wash the fish, and dry thorn Soles, Filleted, I'ltalienne thoroughly in a cloth. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread- crumbs mixed with a little minced pars- ley, lay them in a large flat baking-dish, white side uppermost; or if it will not hold the two soles, they may each be laid on a dish by itself; but they must not be put one on the top of the other. Melt the butter, and pour it over the whole, and bake for 20 minutes. Talio a portion of the gravy that flows from the fish, add the wine, lemon-juice, and seasoning, give it one boil, skim, pour it under the fish, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonahle at any time. SOLES, Boiled. Ingredients. —^ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufiicient cold water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it gra- dually come to a boO, and keep it sim- mering for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin after well draining it, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp, or lobster sauce, and plain melted butter, are usually sent to table with this dish. Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes for a middling-sized sole. Average cost. Is. to 2s. per pair. Sufficient.—1 mid- dling-sized sole for two' persons, SecL' sonahle at any time, SOLES, BoUed or Fried, to Help. The usual way of helping this fish is to cut it right through, bone and all, distributing it in nice and not too large pieces. A moderately-sized sole will be sufficient for three slices; namely, tho head, middle, and tail. The guests should be asked which of these they prefer. A small one will only give two slices. If the sole is very largo, the upper side may be raised from the bono, and then divided into pieces ; and tho under side afterwards served in the same way. _ In helping Filleted Soles, one fillet ia given to each person, SOLES, FiUeted, ft, I'ltaUenno. Ingredients. —2 solos; salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste; egg and