345 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Treacle Pudding, Boiled take oOf tbe skin, fasten it down to a piece of board by running a fork tbrougb the root, and another through the tip, at the same time straightening it and put- ting it into shape. When cold, glaze it, put a paper ruche round the root, which is generally very unsightly, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours in a slow oven, according to size. Average cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 2s, 6d. Seasonable at any time. TBEACLE PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 lb. of suet crust, | lb. of treacle, J teaspoonful of grated ginger. jJ/otZe.—Make, with 1. lb. of flour, a suet crust by our given recipe, roll it out to the thickness of ^ inch, and spread the treacle equally over it, leaving a small margin where the paste joins ; close the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 2 hours. We have inserted this pudding, being economical, and a favourite one with children ; it is, of course, only suitable for a nursery, or very plain family dinner. Made with a lard instead of a suet crust, it would be very nice baked, and would be suffi- ciently done in from 1.^ to 2 hours. Time.—Boiled pudding, 2^hours; baked pudding, 1.^ to 2 hours. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. TBIFLE, to make a. Ingredients.—For the whip, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of pounded sugai-, the white of 2 eggs, a small glass of sherry or raisin wine. For the trifle, 1 pint of custard, made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk ; 6 small sponge cakes, or 6 slices of sponge-cake ; 12 macaroons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, the ^ated rind of 1 lemon, a layer of rasp- berry or strawberry jam, h pint of sherry or sweet wine, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—The whip to lay over the top of the trifle should ho made the day before it is required for table, as the flavour is better, and it is much moi-e solid than when prepared the same day. Put into a large bowl the pounded sugar, the whites of the eggs, which should be beaten to a stiff froth, a glass of sherry or sweet wine, and the cream. Whisk these ingredients well in a cool place, Trifle, Indian. and take off the froth with a skimmer as fast as it rises, and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue the whisking till there is sufficient of the whip, which must be put away in a cool place to drain. The next day, place the sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias at the bottom of a trifle- dish them ^ pour over pint of sherry or sweet wine, mixed with 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and, teifle. should this pro- portion of wine not be found quite suffi- cient, add a little more, as the cakes should be well soaked. Over the cakes put the grated lemon-rind, the sweet almonds, tjanched and cut into strips, and a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Make a good custard, by recipe, using 8 instead of 5 eggs to the pint of milk, and let this cool a little; then pour it over the cakes, &c. The whip being made the day previously, and the trifle prepared, there remains nothing to do now but heap the whip lightly over the iop : this should stand as high as possible, and it may be garnished with strips of bright currant jelly (see illustra- tion), crystallized sweetmeats, or flowers; the small coloured comfits are sometimes used for the purpose of garnishing a trifle, but they are now considered rather old- fashioned. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 5s. Qd. Sufficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time, TBIFI.E, Indian. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the rind of ^ large lemon, sugar to taste, 5 heaped tablespoonfuls of rice-flour, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, ^ pint of custard. Mode.—Boil the milk and lemon-rind together until the former is well flavoured; take out the lemon-rind and stir in the rice-flour, which should first be moistened with cold milk, and add sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten it nicely. Boil gently for about 6 minutes, and keep the mix- ture stirred; take it off" the fire, let it cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. When cold, cut the rice out in the form of a star, or any other shape that may be