Xxvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. and if any require to be taken from home, they should be sent off at once. Then the sweep must bo consulted, and ordered to come on the most convenient days. If the family are away, all the rooms can be swept in one day, but if not, the arrangements must be altered by circumstances. To '' begin with the top floor and go down " is not a bad rule. Before the sweep's arrival all carpets must come \ip, and go away or out to be beaten ; all ornaments must bo removed, pictures taken down, and looking-glasses covered. All furniture should be covered with sheets or with dusting-sheets. 153. After the sweep's necessary but grimy labours, all traces of his presenca must be got rid of, and the room swept totvards the fireplace, and all dirt taken up, and the stove cleaned. The walls, if panelled, are washed down ; if papered, either rubbed down with stale bread or cleaned by passing a clean cloth down them, taking care to remove all cobwebs from comers. In cleaning with bread act as follows:— 154. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a stale loaf of white brr into eight pieces. Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the tof^ ; the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner with the crumb ; do not cross or go upwards ; wipe about half a yard at a stroke, and when all the upper part is done, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. It must 1 o done with great lightness, or the dirt will adhere to the paper, but if propc done the paper looks like new. Then the floor is scrubbed with sand and 1 water—no soap, no soda—and allowed to dry. The fumitvire is thoroug: cleansed while the floor is drying. 155. Those articles which are French-polished should be washed with wg-k vinegar and water, and the following polish used to them :—3 oz. of common be wax, 1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of curd soap, 1 pint ot turpentine, 1 pint of boiled s water ; mix these, adding the water when cold, shake well, and keep for 48 houi Apply with a flannel, and polish first with a duster, and then with a silk hand- kerchief. 156. The furniture should be replaced in position, or changed to suit the altered room, which looks differently with white curtains and dressed-up fireplace. The fireplace may be concealed by a card-table, with a handsome cover of cloth embroidered with some pretty design. Firegrate adornments are to be avoided by chilly persons, whose health demands that every wet evening, every co evening, shall see a cheerful fire in the salon. 157. Very pretty modes there are, however, of ornamenting grates and fi places. Wo all know the eternal crinoline, fringed out and adorned with ivy and re or artificial flowers. The blank space filled by looking-glass, with fender of fe and pot plants in front, is nice but ejrpensive ; but the trellis basket-work sere RDd fender is within the reach of j^ll. The price, to begin with, is moderate, a