189 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Macaroni Pudding, Sweet in. ffreclients.—J lb. of pipe macaroni, it of brown gravy No. 43(5, 6 oz. of ed Parmesan chetse. Mode.—Wash macaroni, and boil it in salt and sr until quite tender; drain it, and it into rather a deep dish. Have y a pint of good brown gravy, pour it over the macaroni, and send it to 5 with grated Parmesan served on a rate dish. When the flavour is liked, lie pounded mace may be added to TOter in which the macaroni is boiled; jhis must always be sparingly added, 1 will impart a very strong flavour. !.—1 tol^ hour to boil the macaroni. •age cost, "with the gravy and cheese, \d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. jndble at any time. OABONI, Sweet Pudding. gredients.—2.^ oz. of macaroni, 2 pints ilk, the rind of J lemon, 3 eggs, sugar grated nutmeg to taste, 2 tablespoon- Df brandy. Mode.—Put the maca- with a pint of the milk, into a span with the lemon-peel, and let it ler gently until the macaroni is er; then put it into a pie-dish with- ;ho peel; mix the other pint of milk the eggs; stir these well together, ag the sugar and brandy, and pour nixturo over the macaroni. Grate a nutmeg over the top, and bake in a srate oven for h hour. To make this iing look nice, a paste should be laid d the edges of the dish, and, for ity, a layer of preserve or marmalade be placed on the macaroni: in this omit the brandy. Time.—1 hour mmer the macaroni; i hour to bake adding. A vemge cost, lid. Sufficient > or 6 persons. SeasonaMe at any SCAEONI SOUP. dients.—3 oz. of macaroni, apiece jLittcr the size of a walnut, salt to I, 2 quarts of clear stock. Mode.— Iw the macaroni and butter into boil- ■water, with a pinch of salt, and lier for A an hour. When it is tender, It and cut it into thin rings or lengths, Hrop it into the boiling stock. Stew By for 15 minutes, and serve grated Kesan cheeso with it. 2'ime.—^ to 1 W. A 'cerage cost, Is. per quart. Season- W'lU the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Mackerel MACABONI, a Sweet Dish of. Ingredie-Us.—^ lb. of macaroni, 1^ pint of milk, the rind of h lemon, 3 oz. of lump sugar, 5 pint of custard. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan, with the lemon- peel and sugar ; bring it to the boiling- point, drop in the macaroni, and let it gradually swell over a gentle fire, but do not allow the pipes to break. The fonn should be entirely preserved; and, though tender, should be firm, and not soft, with no part beginning to melt. Should the milk dry away before the macaroni ia sufiiciently swelled, add a little more. Make a custard, place the macaroni on a dish, and pour the custard over th hot macaroni; grate over it a little nutmeg, and, when cold, garnish the dish with slices of candied citron. Time.—From 40 to 50 minutes to swell the macaroni. Average cost, with the custard. Is. Suffi- cient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MACABOONS. Ingredients.—lb. of sweet almonds, h lb. of sifted loaf sugar, the whites of three eggs, wafer paper. Mode,— Blanch, skin and dry the almonds, and pound them well with a little orange flower or plain water, then add the sifted sugar and the whites of the eggs, which should bo beaten to a stiff froth, and mix all the ingredients well together. When the paste looks soft, drop it at equal dis- tances from a biscuit syringe on to sheets of wafer paper : put a strip of almond on the top of each ; strew some syrup over, and bake the macaroons in rather a slow oven, of a light brown colour. When hard and set, they are done. They musb not be allowed to get very brown, as that would spoil their apijearance. If the cakes when baked, appear heavy, add a little more white of egg, which should be well whisked up before it is added to the other ingredients. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is. M. per lb, MACKEREL. In choosing this fish, purchasers should, to a great extent, be regulated by the brightness of its appearance. If it have a transparent, silvery hue, the flesh is good ; but if it be red about the head, it 18 stale.