THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 127 Forcemeat for Veal ;tle flour. Mode.—T&ke the fleshy vrt of veal, scrape it with a knife, till I the meat is separated from the sinews, id allow about | lb. for an entree, hop the meat, and'pound it in a mortar II reduced to a paste ; then roll it into ball; make another of panada the same se, and another of udder, taking care at these three balls be of the same :e. (It is to be remembered, that equa- ,y of size, and not of weight,, is here ;cessary.) When the three ingredients e properly prepared, pound them alto- ither'in a mortar for some time; for e more quenelles are pounded, the ore delicate they are. Now moisten th the eggs, whites and yolks, and utiuue pounding, adding a seasoning pepper, spices, &c. When the whole well blended together, mould it into lis, or whatever shape is intended, 11 them in flour, and poach in boiling iter, to which a little salt should have en added. If the quenelles are not m enough, add the yolk of another g, but omit the white, which only ikes them hollow and puffy inside. the preparation of this recipe, it uld be well to bear in mind that the jredients are to be well pounded and isoned, and must be made hard or soft jordiug to the dishes they are intended '. For brown or white ragofits they )uld be firm, and when the quenelles i used very small, extreme delicacy II be necessary in their preparation, eir flavour may be varied by using the ih. of rabbit, fowl, hare, pheasant, )use, or an extra quantity of mush- )m, parsley, &c. )HCEMEAT for Veal, Tiirkeys, Fowls, Hare, &c. 'ngredients.—2 oz. of ham or lean !on, i lb. of suet, the rind of half a ion, 1 tcaspoonful of minced parsley, ;easpoonful of minced sweet herbs; t, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste; z. or bread-crumbs, 2 eggs. Mode.— -ed the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lon-peol, and herbs, taking particular e that all be very finely minced ; add leasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, i mace, and blend all thoroughly to- her with the bread-crumbs, before iting. Now-boat and strain the eggs ; rk these up wilh the other ingredients, I the forcemeat will be ready for u.so. len IL ia made into balls, fry of a iJco Fowls, Boiled, to Carve brown, in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake for ^ hour in a moderate oven. As we have stated before, no one flavour should predominate greatly, and the forcemeat should be of sufficient body to cut with a knife, and yet not dry and heavy. For very delicate force- meat, it is advisable to pound the ingre- dients together before binding with the eggs ; but for ordinary cooking, mincing very finely answers tUe-purpose. Aver- age cost, 8d. Sufficient for a turkey, a moderate-siaed fillet of'veal, or a hare. Note.—In the forcemeat for Hare, the liver of the animal is sometimes added. Boil for 5 minutes, mince it very small, and mix it with the other ingredients. If it should be in an'unsound state, it must be on no account made use of. FOWLS, BoUed, a la Bechamel. Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, 1 pint of Bechamel, afew bunchesof boiled broccoli or cauliflower. Mode.—Truss and boil the flowers; make a pint of Bechamel sauce ; pour some of this over the fowls, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with bunches of boiled cauliflowers or broccoli, and serve very hot. The sauce should be made sufiiciently thick to adhere to the fowls ; that for the tureen should be thinned by adding a spoonful or two of stock. Time.—From ^ to 1 houi-, ac- cording to size. Average cost, in full season, 5s. a paif. Sufficietit for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. FOWLS, BoHed, to Carve. This will not be found a very difficult member of the poultry ftimily to carve, unless, as may happen, a very old farm- yard occupant, useless for egg-laying purposes, has, by some unlucky introduced into ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ chicken " ^Skilf, boiled fowl. however, and the application of a small amount of strength, combined with a fine keeping of the temper, will even get over that dif- ficulty. Fixing the fork firmly in the bjpast, let the knife be firmly passed along the line shown from 1 to 2; then cut downwards from that line to fig. 3;