THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Blanc-mange, Cheap varied by adding bay-leaves, laurel-leaves, or essence of vanilla, instead of the lemon- rind and almonds. Noyeau, Maraschino, Cura^oa, or any favourite liqueur, added in small proportions, very much enhances BtiNC-MAKGE MOULD. the flavour of this always favourite dish. In turning it out, just loosen the edges of the blanc-mange from the mould, place a dish on it, and turn it quickly over: it should come out easily, and the blanc- mange have a smooth glossy appearance when the mould is oiled, which it fre- quently has not when it is only dipped in water. It may be garnished as fancy dictate s. Time. —About 1 ^ hour to steep the lemon-rind and almonds in the milk. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 3s. <5d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BLANC-MANGE, Cheap. Ingredients.—| lb. of sugar, 1 quart of milk, 1^ oz, of isinglass, the rind of ^ lemon, 4 laurel-leaves. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, and boil gently until the isinglass is dis- solved ; taste it occasionally to ascertain when it is sufficiently flavoured with the laui-ol-leaves; then take them out, and BLANC-MANGB. keep stirring the mixture over the fire for about 10 minutes. Strain it through A fine sieve into a jug, and, when nearly cold, pour it into a wcll-oilcd mould, omitting the sediment at the bottom. Turn it out carefully on a dish, and gar- nish witli preserves, bright jelly, or a comp6te of fruit. riWie.—Altogether, .J Brawn, to make hour. Average cost, M. Sufficient U) a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. BOUDIN h la KEINE (an Entree; M. Ude's Hecipe). Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 1 pint of Bechamel, salt and ca- yenne to taste, egg and bread crumbs. Mode.—Take the breasts and nice white meat from the fowls ; cut it into small dice of an equal size, and throw them into some good Bechamel {see Bechamel) ; season with salt and cayenne, and put the mixture into a dish to cool. When this prepara- tion is quite cold, cut it into 2 equal parts, which should be made into boudins of a long shape, the size of the dish they are intended to be served on ; roll them in flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and be cai'oful that the ends are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying-pan ; fry them a nice colom-, put them before the fire to drain the greasy moisture from them, and sei-ve with the remainder of the Be- chamel poured round: this should be thinned with a little stock. Time.—10 minutes to fry the boudins. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, 1*. 3d. Suffi- cient for 1 entree. BBAWW, to make. Ingredients.—To a pig's head weighing 6 lbs. allow 1^ lb. lean beef, 2 table- spoonfuls of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, a little cayenne, 6 pounded cloves. Mode.—Cut off the checks and salt them, unless the head be small, when all may be used. After carefully cleaning the head, put it on in sufficient cold water to cover it, with the beef, and skim it just before it boils. A head weighing 6 lbs. will require boiling from 2 to 3 hours. When sufiSciently boiled to come off the bones easily, put it into a hot pan, remove the bones, and chop the mea* , with a sharp knife before the fire, togo- j ther with the beef. It is necessary to do \ this as quicliy as possible to prevent tli4 | fat setlUng in it. Sprinkle in the sea- soning, which should have been pre* viously mixed. Stu- it well and put it j quickly into a brawn-tin if you have one; j if not. a cake-tin or mould will nnswef , the purpose, if the meat is well pressed \ with weights, which must not bo removed j for several hours. When quite cold, dip the tin into boiling w.ater for a minute of two, and the preparation will turn out