THE DICTIOT^AllT OF COOKERY. 176 Lamb's Fry carver soparntes tho shoulder from tbo ribs, tlioy may bo ready for his use ; if, however, ho should uot bo very expert, we would recommend that tho cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. time.—Fore-quarter of lamb weighing 10 lbs., 1^ to 2 hours. Average cost, lOcZ. to Is. per lb. Suffi- cient for 7 or 8 jjorsons. Seasonahle.— Graa? lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB'S FRY Ingredients.—1 lb. of lamb's fry, 3 pints of water, egg and bread crumbs, 1 tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Boil tho fry for ^ hour ia the above proportion of water, take it out and dry it in a cloth; grate some bread down finely, mix with it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a high seasoning of pepper and salt. Brush the fry lightly over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle over the bread crumbs, and fry for 5 minutes. Serve very hot on a napkin in a dish, and garnish with plenty of crisped pai-sley. Time.—\ hour to simmer the fry, 5 minutes to fry it. Average cost, lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Hashed, and Broiled Blade- Bone. rOoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold shoulder of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, about h pint of stock or gravy, 1 tablespoonful of shalot vine- gar, 3 or 4 pickled gherkins. Mode.— Take tho blade-bonc from the shoulder, and cut the meat into collops as neatly us possible. Season the bone with pejiper and salt, pour alittle oiled butter over it, and place it in the oven to warm through. Put the stock into a stewpan, add the ketchup and shalot vinegar, and lay in tho pieces of lamb. Let these heat gradually through, but do not allow them to boil. Tako the blade-bone out of the oven, and place it on a gridiron over a eharp firo to brown. Slice the gherkins, put them into tho hash, and dish it with the blade-bone in the centre. It may bo garnished with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Ttmc—Altogether!. hour. Averarje cost, exclusive of tho meat, id. Seasonable.—Bousciamo, from Christmas to March ; grasa lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. Lamb, Braised Loin of LAMB, Boiled Leg of, & la B6clia— mel. Ingredients.—JjQ^ of lamb, B^chameU sauce.^ Mode. —Do not choose a very? large joint, but one weighing about 5 lbs.' Have ready a saucepan of boiling water,, into which plunge the lamb, and when ifei boils up again, draw it to the side of ilie< firo, and let tho water cool a little.! Then stew very gently for about \\ hour,? reckoning from the time that the wat«9i beirinsto simmer. Make some Bechamel,!, dish tho lamb, pour the sauce over it,' and garnish with tufts of boiled cauli- flower or carrots. When liked, melted butter may be substituted for the B6cha- mel: this is a more simple method, h\v. not nearly so nice. Send to table with it some of the sauce in a tureen, and boi cauliflowers or spinach, with whichew vegetable the dish is garnished. Time. 1;J hour after the water simmers. A rage cost, lOd. to Is. per lb. Siifficl for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fn Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Roast Leg of. Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Moie> —Place the joint at a good distance from i the fire at first, and baste well the whold ■ time it is cooking. When nearly done, \, draw it nearer tho fire to acquire a nice brown colour. Sprinkle a little fine salt k !5S< LEG OF LAUU. over the meat, empty the dripping-pan, of its contents; pour in a little boiling f water, and strain this over the meat Serve with mint sauce and a fresh salad, and for vegetables send peas, spinach, <Mf cauliflowers to table with it. Time.-^^^ A leg of lamb weighing 5 lbs., 1,3 hour. Average cost, lOd. to Is. a pound. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Braised Loin of. Ingredients.—1 loin of lamb, a few slices of bacon, 1 bunch of green onions, 6 or G yoimg carrots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of jioundcd mace, 1 jiiot of stock, salt to taste, i/oc/c.—Bone »