248 TUE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. Piokle for Tongues or Beef mustard, turmeric, popper, and cayenne; mix them with vinegar, and stir well until no lumps remain ; add all the in- gredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a wooden spoon, when it will bo ready for the different vegetables to be added to it. As these come into sea- son, have them gathered on a dry day, and, after merely wiping them with a cloth, to free them from moisture, put them into the pickle. The cauliflowers, it may be said, must be divided into small bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the end of the sea- son, when there have been added as many of the vegetables as could be pro- cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the ingre- dients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat till 12 months have elapsed. Whilst the pickle is being made, keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar; and its contents, it may be repeated, must be stirred every morning. Seasonable.— Make the pickle-liquor in May or June, as the season arrives for the various vegetables to be picked. PICKLE for Tongues or Beef (Newmarket Eecipe). Ingredients.—1 gallon of soft water, 3 lbs. of coarse salt, 6 oz. of coarse brown sugar, i oz. of saltpetre. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and let them boil for ^ an hour, clear off the Bcum as it rises, and when done pour the pickle into a pickling-pan. Let it get cold, then put in the meat, and allow it to remain in pickle from 8 to 14 days, according to the size. It will keep good for 6 months if well boiled once a fort- night. Tongues will take 1 month or 6 weeks to be properly cured; and, in salting meat, oeef and tongues should always be put in separate vessels. Time.— A moderate-sized tongue should remain in the pickle about a month, and bo turned every day. PICKLE, Universal. Ingredients.—To 6 quarts of vinegar bIIow 1 lb. of salt, I lb. of ginger, 1 oz. of niaco, i lb. of shalots, 1 tablespoonful of cayenne, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, 1.^ oz. of turmeric. Mode.—^o\\ all the ingre- dients together for about 20 minutes ; whoa cold, put thorn into a jar with Picnic, Bill of Fare for whatever vegetables you choose, i ■ -? as radish-pods, French beans, c; - ' flowers, gherkins, &c. &c., as these c ^ into season ; put them in fresh as gather them, having previously wi: IC! them perfectly free from moisture r grit. This pickle will be fit for us-.- , about 8 or 9 months. Time.—20 mini. Seasonable.—Make the pickle in Ma June, to bo ready for tho various v<i ^ tables. Note.—As this pickle takes 2 c -'^ months to make,—that is to say, ne that time will elapse before all the di ent vegetables are added,—care mus ' taken to keep the jar which cont " the pickle well covered, either wit 7 closely-fitting lid, or a piece of blac • securely tied over, so as perfectly. exclude the air. "'■ PICKLES. '% Although pickles may be purchase T shops at as low a rate as they can usu be made for at home, or perhaps t for less, yet we would advise all ho ... wives, who have sufficient time and > ■ h venience, to prepare their own. only general rules, perhaps, worth £ ., ing here,—as in the recipes all ne " sary details will be explained—are, 1 K the vegetables and fruits used shoul( -i sound, and not over-ripe, and that very best vinegar should bo employee .5 PICNIC FOR 40 PERSONS, :' of Fare for. A joint of cold roast beef, a joir cold boiled beef, 2 ribs of lam I - shoulders of lamb, 4 roast fowls, 2 r^ ? ducks, 1 ham, 1 tongue, 2 veal-and-1 pies, 2 pigeon pies, 6 medium-s lobsters, 1 piece of collared calf's h( 18 lettuces, 6 baskets of salad, 6 cue bers. Stewed fruit well sweetened, and ' into glass bottles well corked ; 3 1 dozen plain pastry biscuits to eat t ' the stowed fruit, 2 dozen fruit tumov 4 dozen cheesecakes, 2 cold cabinet 1 dings in moulds, 2 blancmanges > moulds, a few iam puffs, 1 largo « ■, Elum-pudding (this must be good), a askets of fresh fruit, 3 dozen plain . cuits, a piece of cheese, 6 lbs. of bu ; (this, of course, includes the butter * tea), 4quartern loaves of household bp ; 3 dozen rolls, 6 loaves of tin bread tea), 3 plain plum cakes, 2 pound ca ;