1"HE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 123 Flounders, Fried. add salt and vinegar in the above jrtions, and when it boils, simmer g-cntly for 5 minutes. They must oil fast, or they will break. Serve plain melted butter, or parsley and !r. Time.—After the water boils, mtes. Average cost, Sd. each. Sea- ile from August to November. )"D"NDERS, Fried. •edients.—Flounders, egg, andbread- bs ; boiling lard. Mode.—Cleanse sh, and, two hours before they are Bd, rub them inside and out with to render them fu'm ; wash and them very dry, di^p them into egg, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs; lem in boiling lard, dish on a hot in, and garnish with crisped pars- Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, ac- ng to size. Average cost, 2>d. each. iiahle from August to November. lent, 1 for each person. )WERS, Almond. jredients.—Puff-paste; to every ^ lb. ,ste allow 3 oz. of almonds, sifted ■, the white of an egg. 3Iode.— the paste out to the thickness of | and, with a_ round fluted cutter, J out as many pieces as may be re- d. Work the paste up again, roll and, with a smaller cutter, stamp onie pieces the size of a shilling. \ the larger pieces over with the 1 of an egg, and place one of the or pieces on each. Blanch and cut monds into strips lengthwise; press slanting into the paste closely round iugs ; and when they are all com- 1, sift over some pounded sugar, bake for about ^ hour or twenty tea. Garnish between the almonds strips of apple jelly, and place in e of the ring a small quantity of berry jam; pile them high on the and sci-ve. Time.—^ hour or 20 tes. Sufficient.—IS or 20 for a dish. naMe at any time. tWERS, to Preserve Cut. Douquct of freshly-cut flowers may reserved alive for a long time by ig them in a glass or vase with fresh in which a little charcoal has been cd, or a small piece of camphor Ivcd. The vase should be set upon to or dish, and covered with a boU- , around the edges of which, when Fondue, Brillat Savarin's it comes in contact with the plate, a little water should be poured to exclude the air. FLOWERS, to Revive after Pack- ing. Plunge the stems into boiling water, and, by the time the water is cold, the flowers will have revived. Then cut afresh the ends of the stems, and keep them in fresh cold water. FONDUE. Ingredients.—i eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter ; pepper and salt to taste. il/otZo;.—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut it into vei-y thin flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, which- ever is the most convenient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces, add to it the other ingre- dients, with sufficient pepper and salt to season nicely, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Well whisk the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly in, and either bake the fondue in a souffle-dish or small round cake-tin. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondue should rise very much. Pin a napkin round the tin or dish, and serve very hot and very quickly. If allowed to stand after it is withdrawn from the oven, the beauty and lightness of this preparation will be entirely spoiled. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. FONDUE, Brillat Savarin's (an ex- cellent Recipe). Ingredients. — Eggs, cheese, butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; weigh the eggs in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Gruyfere cheese, and a piece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be grated, and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. Stir these ingredients together with a wooden spoon ; put the mixture into a lined saucepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and soft