333 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Suet Pudding brown gravy, or plain melted butter. Time.—About 1 Lour. Average costs, Is. to Is. did. per lb. Seasonable from August to March. ,.,,.11 ~ iV'^o^e.—Sturgeon may be plamly boiled, and served with Dutch sauce. The fish is very firm, and requires long boiling. SUET PUDDIWGr, to serve with Eoast Meat. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, I saltspoonful of salt, h saltspoonful of pepper, | pint of milk or water. i/orZe.—Chop the suet very finely, after freeing it from skin, and mix it well with the flour; add the salt and pepper (this latter ingredient may be omitted if the flavour is not liked), and make the whole into a smooth paste with the above proportion of milk or water. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, or put it into a buttered basin, and boil fi-om 2| to 3 hours. To enrich it, substitute 3 beaten eggs for some of the milk or water, and increase the pro- portion of suet. Time.—2h to 3 hoiu-s. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—When there is a joint roasting or baking, this pudding may be boiled in a long shape, and then cut into slices a few minutes before dinner is served ; these slices should be laid in the dripping- pan for a minute or two, anei then browned before the fire. Most children like this accompaniment to roast-meat. SUGAB, to Boil, to Caramel. Ingredients. — To every lb. of lump eugar allow 1 gill of spring water. Mode. — Boil the sugar and water together very quickly over a clear fire, skimming it Very carefully as soon as it boils. Keep it boiling until the sugar snaps when a little of it is dropped in a pan of cold water. If it remains hard, the sugar has attained the right degree; then squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and lot it remain an instant on the fire. Set the pan into another of cold water, and the caramel is then ready for use. The insides of well-oiled moulds aro often ornamented with this sugar, which with a fork should bo spread over them in fine threads or network. A dish of light pastry, taste- fully arranged, looks very pretty with this sugar spun lightly over it. Suppers SUPPEBS. Much may be done in the arrange- ment of a supper-table, at a very small expense, provided taste and ingemdty are exercised. The colours and flavours of the various dishes should contrast nicely ; there should be plenty of fruit and flowers on the table, and the room should be well hghted. We have endeavoured to show how the various dishes may be placed; but of course these little matters entirely depend on the length and width of the table used, on individual taste, whether tho tables are arranged round the room, whether down tho centre, with a cross one at the top, or whether the supper is laid in two separate rooms, &c., &c. The garnishing of the dishes has also much to do with the appearance of a supper-table. Hams and tongues should be ornamented with cut vegetable flowers, raised pies with aspic jelly cut in dice, and all the dishes garnished sufficiently to be in good taste without looking absurd. The eye, in fact, should bo as much gratified as the palate. Hot soup is now often served at suppers, but is not placed on the table. The servants fill the plates from a tureen on tho buff"et, and then hand them to the guests : when these plates are removed, the business of supper commences. Where small rooms and large parties necessitate having a standing supper, manythiugs enumerated in the following bill of fare may be placed on the buffet. Dishes for these suppers should be se- lected which may be eaten standing without any trouble. The following list may, perhaps, assist our readers in the arrangement of a buffet for a standing supper. Beef, ham, and tongue-sandwiches, lobster and oyster-patties, sausage-rolls, meat-rolls, lobster-salad, dishes of fowls, the latter all cut up; dishes of sliced ham, sliced tongue, sliced beef, and ga- lantine of veal; various jellies, blanc- manges, and creams; custards in glasses, compotes of fruit, tartlets of jam, and several dishes of small fancy pastry; dishes of fresh fruit, bonbons, sweet- meats, two or three sponge-cakes, a few plates of biscuits, and the buffet orna- mented with vases of fresh or artificial flowers. Tho above dishes are quite suf- ficient for a standing supper; whore more aro desired, a supper must then be laid and arranged in the usual manner.