391 Sweet Omeletts aux Confitures. Mode.—Cut the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of tho fat, should there be too much; dip them in beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, around a wall of mashed potatoes, and pour round thom either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. DISH OF OYSTERS. Ingredients.—Native oysters, lemon. Mode.—Open the oysters in tbe flat shell, arrange in a pyramid round a jar <jovez'ed with a white muslin. Garnish with lemon slices. LAMB CTJTL-ETS AND PEAS. Ingredients.—Cutlets, egg and bread-crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little clarified butter, green peas. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cutting off the thick part of the chine bone. Trim oflf most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Now dip them into clarified butter, sprinkle over a few more bread-crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Lay them before the fire to drain, and arrange round the green peas. Serve with a good gravy. SPIlSrACH ATTD EGGS. Ingredients.—Spinach, eggs, and toast. Mode.—Cai-efully wash, boil, strain, and chop the spinach, mould into shape, and edge with diamonds of toast. Poach some new-laid eggs carefully, and arrange on the top. Serve very hot. SWEET OMELETTE AUX COKFITURES. Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot, straw- berry, or any jam that may be preferred. Mode.—hlakc the omelet by recipe, only instead of doubling it over, leave it flat in the pan. When quite firm, and nicely brown on one side, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, siiread over the middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each side; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. A pretty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing the batter into 3 or 4 portions, and frying them separately; they should then be spread each one with a different kind of preserve, and the omelets rolled over. Always sprinkle sweet omeleta with sifted sugar before being sent to table.