THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 230 Ox-Tail Soup until of a brownish colour on both sides, and serve with a good gravy, or any sauce that may be preferred. Time.—About 2A hours. Average cost, from M. to Is. Gd.', according to tiie season. Sufficient for 6 persons. SeasoyiaUe at any time. Note. — These may be more easily prepared by putting the tails in a brisk oven, after they have been dipped in egg and bread-crumb ; and, when brown, they are done. They must be boiled the eame time as for broiling. OX-TAIL SOUP. Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 2 slices of ham, 1 oz. of butter, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 1 leek, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 bay-leaf, 12 ■whole peppercorns, 4 cloves, a table- spoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, ^ glass of port wine, 3 quarts of water. Mode. — Cut up the tails, separating them at the joints; wash them, and put them in a stewpan, with the butter. Cut the vegetables in slices, and add them, with the peppercorns and herbs. Put in ^ pint of water, and stir it over a sharp tire till the juices are drawn. '-Fill up the stewpan with the water, and, when boiling, add the salt. Skim well, and simmer very gently for 4 hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavour with the ketchup and port wine. Put back the tails, simmer for 5 minutes, and serve. Time.—4n hours. Average cost, Is. Zd. per quartT Seasonable in winter. Suffi- cient for 10 persons. OX-TAILS, Stewed. Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, \ teaspoonful of whole black pepper, \ teaspoonful of allspice, ^ a teaspoonful of salt, a small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonfid of mush- room ketchlip. il/ot/e.—Divide the tails at the joints, wash, and put them into a Etewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and set them on the fire; when the water boils, remove the scum, and add the onion cut iuto rings, the spice, seasoning, and herbs. Cover the stewpan closely, and lot the tails simmer very gently until tender, which will bo in about 2.^ hours. Take them out, mako a thickening of butter and Hour, add it Oyster Patties to the gravy, and let it boil for \ hour. Strain it through a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, add the lemon-juice and ketchup ; let the whole just boil up, and serve. Garnish with crofitons or sip. pets of toasted bread. Time.—2h hours to stew the tails. A verage cost, '9d. to 1«. 6d., according to the season. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year, OYSTER, Forcemeat for Boast or Boiled Turkey. Ingredients.— ^ pint of bread crumbs, 1^ oz, of chopped suet or butter, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, ^ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 2 eggs, 18 oysters. Mode.—Grate the bread very fine, and be careful that no largo lumps remain ; put it into a basin with the suet, which must be very finely minced, or, when butter is used, that must be cut up into small pieces. Add the herbs, also chopped as small as pos- sible, and seasoning; mix all these well together, until the ingredients are tho- roughly mingled. Open and beard the oysters, chop them, but not too small, and add them to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, and, with the hand, work altogether, until it is smoothly mi.xed. The turkey should not be stuffed too full: if there should bo too much forcemeat, roll it into balls, fry them, and use them as a garnish. Sufficient for 1 turkey, OYSTEB KETCHUP. Ingredients.—Sufiicient oysters to fill a pint measure, 1 pint of sheny, 3 oz, of salt, 1 drachm of cayenne, 2 drachms of pounded mace. Mode.—Procure the oysters very fresh, and open suflScient to fill a pint measure ; save the liquor, and scald the oysters in it with the sherry; strain the oysters, and put them in a mortar with the salt, cayenne, and mace ; pound the whole until reduced to a pulp, then add it to the liquor in which they were scalded; boil it again five minutes, and skim well; rub the whole tlu"ough a sieve, and, when cold, bottle and coi'k closely. The corks should bo sealed. Seasonable from September to April, Note.—Cider may be substituted for the sherry. OYSTEB PATTIES (an Entrda). Ingredients.—2 dozen oysters, 2 oz. of butter, 3 tablespooafuls of cream, a