886 Philosophy of Housekeeping. dients. Stew very gently for rather more than 2 hours. Reduce the gravy, with which glaze the moat, and serve with peas, stewed cucumbers, or sorrel sauce. BOLLED LOIN OF MUTTON. Inqeedients.—About 6 pounds of a loin of mutton, J teaspoonful of pepper, I teaspoonful of pounded allspice, J teaspoonful of mace, | teaspoonful of nutmeg, 6 cloves, forcemeat, 1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Hang the mutton till tender, bone it, and sprinkle over it pepper, mace, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg in the above proportion, all of which must be pounded very fine. Let it remain for a day, then make a forcemeat, cover the meat with it, and roll and bind it up firmly. Half bake it in a slow oven, let it grow cold, take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan; flour the meat, put it in the gravy, and stew it perfectly tender. Now take out the meat, unbind it, add to the gravy wine and ketchup as above, give one boil, and pour over the meat. Serve with red-currant jelly; and, if obtainable, a few mushrooms, stewed for a few minutes in the gravy, will be found a great improvement. BOAST SADDLE OP MUTTON. Ingredients.—Saddle of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—To ensure this joint being tender, let it hang for 10 days or a fortnight, if the weather permits. Cut off the tail and flaps, and trim away every part that has not indisputable pretensions to be eaten, and have the skin taken off and skewered on again. Put it down to a bright, clear fire, and, when the joint has been cooking for an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt, but kept constantly basted, both before and after the skin is removed. Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gi-avy in the dripping-pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of gravy and red-currant jelly. BOAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Ingredients.—Shoulder of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—Put the joint doVn to a bright, clear fire; flour it well, and keep continually basting. About | hour before serving, draw it near the fire, that the •outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not suflficieutly near to blacken the meat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, empty the dripping-pan of its •contents, pour in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this ovtr the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. BOAST HAUNCH OF MUTTON. iNGnEDIENTS.—ITaunch of mutton, a little salt, flour.