THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 125 Forcemeats. tent, and, after the third month, to i an egg to every pint basin of food de. At night, the mother puts the d into the covered pan of her lamp, lead of the saucepan—that is, enough one supply, and, having lighted the h, she will find, on the waking of her Id, the food sufficiently hot to bear cooling addition of the milk. But, 3tber night or day, the same food uld never be heated twice, and what child leaves should be thrown away, 'he biscuit powder is used in the same iner as the fai-inaceous food, and both pared much alter the fashion of iing starch. But when tops-and- :oms, or the whole biscuit, are em- I, they require soaking in cold or some time previouslj' to boiling, scuit or biscuits are then to be boiled in as much water as will, thoroughly soft, allow of their beaten by a three-pronged fork ine, smooth, and even pulp, and when poured into a basin and 3 cold, will cut out like a custard, large biscuits have been so treated, 3 child is six or seven months old, ) two eggs, sufficient sugar to pro- iweeten it, and about a pint of nilk. Pour this on the beaten in the saucepan, stirring con- ; boil for about five minutes, pour basin, and use, when cold, in the lanner as the other, makes an admirable food, at once Dus and strengthening. When id-bottoms or rusks are used, the ;y of the egg may be reduced, or her omitted. )lina, or manna croup, being in ard grains, like a fine millet-seed, )0 boiled for some time, and the ugar, and egg added to it on the d boiled for a few minutes longer, ben cold, used as the other pre- ins. jr persons entertain a belief that milk is hurtful to infants, and, uently, refrain from giving it; s is a very groat mistake, for both ind milk should form a large por- every meal an infant takes. 3EMEATS. points which cooks should, in this of cookery, more particularly ), are the thorough chopping of at, the complete mincing of the Forcemeat, French herbs, the careful grating of the bread- crumbs, and the perfect mixing of the whole. These are the three principal ingredients of forcemeats, and they can scarcely be cut too small, as nothing like a lump or fibre should be auywhei'a perceptible. To conclude, the flavour of no one spice or herb should be permitted to predominate. FOKCEMEAT BALLS, for Fish Soups. Ingredients.—1 middling-sized lobster, I an anchovy, 1 head of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste ; 4 table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell of the lobster, and pound it, with the soft parts, in a mortar ; add the celery, the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, seasoning, and bread-crumbs. Con- tinue pounding till the whole is nicely amalgamated. Warm the butter till it is in a liquid state ; well whisk the eggs, and work these up with the pounded lobster-meat. Make the balls of about an inch in diameter, and fry of a nice pale brown. Sufficient, from 18 to 20 balls for 1 tureen of soup. FOKCEMEAT, French. It will be well to state, in the beginning of this recipe, that French forcemeat, or quenelles, consist of the blending of three separate processes ; namely, panada, udder, and whatever meat you intend using. Panada. Ingredients.—The crumb of 2 penny rolls, 4 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 1 oz. of butter, 1 slice of ham, 1 bay-leaf, a little minced parsley, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, a few mushrooms, butter, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Soak the crumb of the rolls in milk for about ^ hour, then take it out, and squeeze so as to press the milk from it; put the soaked bread into a stewpan with the above quantity of white stock, and set it on'bne side ; then Eut into a separate stewpan 1 oz. of utter, a slice of lean ham cut small, with a bay-leaf, herbs, mushrooms, spices, &c., in the above proportions, and fry them gently over a slow fire. When done, moisten with 2 teacupfuls of white stock, boil for 20 minutes, and strain the whole through a sieve over the panada-