401 Jelly of Two Colours. STEWED PEARS. Ingredient's.—8 large pears, 5 oz. of loaf-sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, ^ pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mode.—Pare the pears, halve them, remove the cores, and leave the stalks on ; put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be from 3 to 4 hours, according to the quality of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, carefully lifted out on to a glass dish without breaking them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes ; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get perfectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of jprepared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fi-uit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it be not too much done. NEAPOLITAN CAKES. Ingredients.—The weight of 4 eggs in pomided loaf-sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rind, or essence of almonds, or orange-flower water. Mode.—Break the 7 eggs, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, con- tinuing to beat the mixtui-e for \ hour; butter a mould, pour in the cake, and bake it from 1.^ to 1^ hour. This is a very nice cake for dessert, and may be iced for a supper-table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. CHRISTMAS PIiUM-PUDDIlSrG. Ingredients.—1| lb. raisins, l lb. currants, 1 lb. mixed peel, ^ lb. bread- crumbs, -I lb. suet, 8 eggs, 1 wineglassful brandy. Mode.—^toue and cut the raisins in halves, but do not chop them : wash pick, and dry the currants, and mince the suet finely; cut the candid peel into thin slices, and grate down the bread into fine crumbs. When all these dry ingre- dients are prepared, mix them well together; then moisten the mixture with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the brandy ; stir well, that everything may be thoroughly blended, and press the pudding into a buttered mould ; tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil for 5 or 6 hours. JELLY OF TWO COLOURS. Ingredients.—li pint of calf *s-feet jelly, a few drops of prepai-ed cochineal. Mode.-Unke l.i pint of jelly, or, if wished more economical, of clarified syrup and gelatine, flavouring it in any way that may be preferred. Colour one-half of the jelly with a few drops of cochineal. Well wet a mould; pour