xvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. wasLing, unless washing is done at homo, when, of course, it is done by ^ maids and laundress. If servants work hard they require some ale, and hy providing a cask of good ale, and putting it in the cook's charge, they have suQiciont, and there is no objectionable calling of public-house boys for orders or beer-cans. The ale should be computed to last a certain time, and the bro r be ordered to call at regular intervals. Women servants are allowed a pint aud men servants a quart per diem, and a gallon over should be allowed in small households for waste in constant drawing. The family, if ale-drinkers, should have a separate cask, as it is impossible to ascertain the right quantity to be used when friends drop in. 87. The USUAL Allowance for Servants is :— Vegetables chiefly potatoes and greens. Ale or stout: men, 1 quart; maids, 1 pint per diem. Washing, from Is. to Is. 6d. Tea, ^ lb. per week. Sugar, h lb. per week. Butter, ^ lb. per week. Meat, 3^ lb. per week. Bread, 1 lb. per diem ; | lb. cheese per week. Soap, 1 lb. per week for house-cleaning, and 1 cake for personal use, 88. Tea and bread and buttei-, or bread and preserve, ai-e the scrra; ordinary breakfast. 89. Dinner, hot meat and vegetables, alternately with cold meat pudding; but a considerate mistress will consult her servants' health and own interest, by giving them aiT agreeable change of food. 90. Tea and bread and butter for tea. 91. Supper, bread and meat or bread and cheese. 92. Coffee makes an agreeable change with tea, and should be occasional).'' flUowed in the proportion of ^ lb. per head per week. 93. Care and economy without meanness, on the part of a mistress, will more to correct the extravagance of servants than any precept. If a maid sees h mistress carefully throw up the ashes, put out unnecessary candles, or gasligh and economize properly, she will try also to save her mistress's property. 94. We think that by laying .aside all pretence, and being open and hen with servants, we make them careful and exact too. Where the mistress is gi to changing her servants,' complaiuing of them, &c., the fault is usualli/ her o The fault is with the driver, not with the horses, who, in light but firm han would run well together, and do their work well and quickly.