THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Ox-Clieek Soup 10. Four ribs, called the middle-rib, —greatly esteemed by house- keepers as the most economical joint for roasting. 11. Two ribs, called the chuck-rib, —used for second quality of cteaks. 12. Leg-of-mutton piece,—the mus- cles of the shoulder dissected from the breast. 13. Brisket, or breast,—used for boiling, after being salted. 14. Neck, clod, and sticking-piece, —used for soups, gravies, stocks, pies, and mincing for sausages. 15. Shin,—stewing. The following is a classification of the qualities of meat, according to the seve- ral joints of beef, when cut up in the London manner. ^ii-st ctoss—includes the sirloin, with the kidney suet (1), the rump-steak piece (2), the fore-rib (9). Second class—The buttock (4), the thick flank (7), the middle-rib (10). Third class—The aitch-bone (3), the mouse-round (5), the thin flank (8), the chuck (11), the leg-of-mutton piece (12), the brisket (13). Fourth class—The neck, clod, and sticking-piece (14). Fifth class—The hock (6), the shin (15). OX-CHEEK SOUP. Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 3 heads of celery, 3 blades of mace, 4 cloves, a fag- got of savoury herbs, 1 bay leaf, a tea- spoonful of salt, half that of pepper, 1 head of celery, browning, the crust of a French roll, 5 quarts of water. Mode.— Lay the ham in the bottom of the stow- pan, with the butter; break the bones of the cheek, wash it clean, and put it on the ham. Cut the vegetables small, add them to the other ingredients, and set the whole over a slow fire for \ of an hovur. Now put in the water, and sim- mer gently till it is reduced to 4 quarts ; take out the fleshy part of the cheek, and strain the soup into a clean stewpan ; thicken with flour, put in a head of sliced celery, and simmer till the celery is tender. If not a good colour, use a little browning. Cut the meat into small square pieces, pour the soup over, and serve with the crust of a French roll in the tureen. A glass of sherry much im- Ox-Tail, Broiled proves this soup. Time.—3 to 4 hours. Average cost, %d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 12 persons. OX-CHEEK, Stewed Ingredients.—1 cheek, salt and water, 4 or 6 onions, butter and flour, 6 cloves, 3 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bay-leaf, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, cay- enne, black pepper, and salt to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Have the cheek boned, and prepare it the day before it is to be eaten, by cleaning and putting it to soak all night in salt and water. The next day, wipe it dry and clean, and put it into a stewpan. Just cover it with water, skim well when it boils, and let it gently simmer till the meat is quite tender. Slice and fry 3 onions in a little butter and flour, and put them into the gravy; add 2 whole onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, 3 tur- nips quartered, 2 carrots sliced, a bay- leaf, 1 head of celery, a bunch of herbs, and seasoning to taste of cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Let these stew till perfectly tender; then take out the cheek, divide into pieces fit to help at table, skim and strain the gravy, and thicken 1^ pint of it with butter and flom* in the above proportions. Add the vinegar, ketchup, and port wine; put in the pieces of cheek ; let the whole boil up, and serve quite hot. Send it to table in a rago<it-dish. If the colour of the gi'cvy should not be very good, add a tablespoonful of the browning. Time. —4 hours. Average cost,. 3cZ. per lb. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. OX-TAIL, Broiled (an Entree). Ingredients.—2 tails, 1^ pint of stock, salt and cayenne to taste, bread crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Joint and cut up tho tails into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, cayenne, and salt, and, if liked very savoury, a bunch of sweet herbs. Let them simmer gently for about 2i hours; then take them out, drain them, and let them cool. Beat an egg upon a plate; dip in each piece of tail, and, afterwards, sprinkle them well with lino bread crumbu; broU them over a clear fire,