THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 313 Shad, to Dress Fniit.—Bullaces, damsons, figs, fil- berts, grapes, melons, morella cherries, mulberries, nectarines, peaches, pears, plums, quinces, walnuts. SHAD, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 shad, oil, pepper, and salt." Mode.—Scale, empty and wash the fish carefully, and make two or three incisions across the back. Season it with pepper and salt, and let it remain in oil for h hour. Broil it on both sides over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. This fish is much esteemed by the French, and by them is considered excellent. Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average cost. —Seldom bought. Seasonable from April to Juno. SHEEP'S BRAINS, en Matelote (an Entr6e). Ingredients.—6 sheep's brains, vinegar, salt, a few slices of bacon, 1 small onion, 2 cloves, a small bunch of parsley, suffi- cient stock or weak broth to cover the brains, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, matelote sauce. jyocZe.—Detach the brains from the head without breaking them, and put them into a pan of warm water; remove the skin,' and let them remain for two hours. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, add a little vinegar and salt, and put in the brains. When they are quite firm, take them out and put them into very cold water. Place 2 or 3 slices of bacon in a stewpan, put in tho brains, the onion stuck with 2 cloves, the pai-sley, and a good sea- soning of pepper and salt; cover with stock, or weak broth, and boil them gently for about 25 minutes. Have ready some crotitons; arrange these in tho dish alternately with the brains, and cover with a matelote sauce, to which has been added the above propor- tion of lemon-juice. 5r*?52e.—25 minutes. Average cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonalle at any time. SHEEP'S FEET or TROTTERS (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—12 feet, J lb. of beef or mutton suet, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 2 bay- leaves, 2 sprigs of thymo, 1 oz. of salt, i oz. of pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2^ quarts of water, | lb. of fresh butter, 1 tcaspoonful of salt, 1 tcaspoon- ful of flour, I teaspoonful of pepper, a Shortbread, Scotch little grated nutmeg, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 gill of milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Have the feet cleaned, and the long bone extracted from them. Put the suet into a stewpan, with tho onions and carrot sliced, the bay-leaves, thyme, salt, and pepper, and let theso simmer for 5 minutes. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour and the water, and keep stirring till it boils; then put in the feet. Let these simmer for 8 hours, or until perfectly tender, and take them and lay them on a sieve. Mix together, on a piate, with the back of a spoon, butter, salt, flour (1 teaspoonful), pep- per, nutmeg, and lemon-juice as above, and put the feet, with a gill of milk, into a stewpan. When very hot, add the butter, &c., and stir continually till melted. Now mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 5 tablespoonfuls of milk ; stir this to the other ingredients, keep moving the pan over the fire continually for a minute or two, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. Sei've in a very hot dish, and garnish with crotl- tons, or sippets of toasted bread. Time, —3 houi'S. Average cost, Is. Qd. Stiff- cient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SHEEP'S HEAD. Ingredients.—1 sheep's head, suffi- cient water to cover it, 8 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 or 3 parsnips, 3 onions, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, | lb. of Scotch oatmeal. Mode.—Clean the head well, and let it soak in warm water for 2 hours, to get rid of the blood ; put it into a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add tho vegetables, peeled and sliced, and the remaining ingredients; before adding the oatmeal, mix it to a smooth batter with a little of the liquor. Keep stirring till it boils up; then shut tho saucepan closely, and lot it stew gently for Ih or 2 hours. It may be thickened with I'ice or barley, but oatmeal is pre- ferable. Time.—1.^ to 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. SHORTBREAD, Scotch. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, J lb. of pounded loaf sugar, ^ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a few strips of candied orauge pcol.