126 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Forcemeat for Cold Savoury Pies. in the other stowpan. Place it over the fire, keep constantly stirring, to prevent its burning, and, when quite dry, put in a small piece of butter. Let this again dry up by stirring over the fire; then add the yolks of 2 eggs, mix well, put the panada to cool on a clean plate, and use it when rec^uired. Panada should always bo well llavoured, as the force- meat receives no taste from any of the other ingredients used in its preparation. Boiled Calf's Udder for French Forcemeat.—Put the udder into a stewpan with suflicient water to cover it; let it stew gently till quite done, when take it out to cool. Trim all the upper parts, cut it into small pieces, and pound ■well in a mortar, till it can be rubbed through a sieve. That portion which passes tlirough the strainer is one of the three ingredients of which French force- meats are generally composed ; but many cooks substitute butter for this, being a less troublesome and more expeditious mode of preparation. FORCEMEAT, for Cold Savoury Pies. Ingredients.—1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of fat bacon ; salt, cayenne, pepper, and pounded mace to taste; a very little nutmeg, the same of chopijed lemon-peel, ' ^ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, h tea- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, I or 2 eggs. Mode.—Chop the veal and bacon J;ogether, and put them into a mortar with the other ingredients mentioned above. Pound well, and bind with 1 or 2 eggs ■which have been previously beaten and strained. Work the whole well together, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. If the pie is not to be eaten immediately, omit the herbs and parsley, as these will prevent it from keeping. Mushrooms or truffles may be added. Sufficient for 2 small pies. FORCEMEAT, for Pike, Carp, Had- dock, and various Kinds of Fish. Ingredients.—1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of suet, 1 oz. of fat bacon, 1 small tea- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, in- cluding parslcj'; a little onion, when liked, shredded very fine ; salt, nutmeg, and ciyenne to taste ; 4 oz. of bread- crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Mix all the in- gredients well together, carefully mincing them very finely; beat up the egg, Forcemeat Veal moisten with it, and work the whole ver smoothly together. Oysters oranchovi< may be added to this forcemeat, and wi be found a great improvement, A n , " coat, (id. Sufficient for a moderate-bizi haddock or pie. FORCEMEAT, for Baked Pike. Ingredients. —3 oz. of bread-crumb 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herl 8 oysters, 2 anchovies (these may be d pensed with), 2 oz. of suet; salt, pepf and pounded mace to taste; 6 tabl spoonfuls of creain or milk, the yolks 2 eggs. Mode.—Bea.r<X and mince t: oysters, prepare and mix the other ingi dients, and blend the whole thorough together. ^Rloisten with the cream ai eggs, put all into a stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, when put into the fish, which should have pi viously been cut open, and sew it ii Time.—4 or 5 minutes to thicken. A age cost, lOd. Suffixnent for a moderal sized pike. FORCEMEAT, or QUENELLIEI?. for Turtle Soup. (Soyer's cipe.) Take a pound and a half of lean vxi ^ from the tillet, and cut it in long tlif shoes ; scrape with a knife till nothi but the fibre remains ; put it into a m tar, pound it 10 minutes, or until in purge ; pass it through a wire sieve (i the remainder in stock); then take pound of good fresh beef suet, whi skin, shred, and chop very fine ; put into a mortar and pound it; then >,] 6 oz. of panada (that is, bread saaked l miik and boiled till nearly dry) wiih 1 ' suet; pound them well together, 8 41)) add the veal; season with a teaspoor of salt, a quarter one of pepper, 1 that of nutmeg ; work all well toj-ofh then add four eggs by degrees, cenli ally pounding the contents of the niorl When well mixed, take a small piece a spoon, and poach it in some boil water ; and if it is delicate, firm, ant a good flavour, it is ready fcr use. FORCEMEAT VEAL, or XTB- QUENELLES. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of v pan.ada, and calfs udder, 2 egL. : i soning to taste of pepper, bhU, pounaed mace, or grated nutmeg