02 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Cucumbers, Stewed dross as usual with popper, vinegar, and oil. CUCUMBEBS, Stewed. Ingredients.—3 largo cucumbers, flour, butter, rather more than ^ pint of good brown gravy. Mode.—Cut tho cucum- bers lengthwise tho size of tho dish they ire intended to bo served in ; empty t.hem of the seeds, and put them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them simmer for 5 minutes; then take them out, place them in another stew- pan, with the gravy, and let them boil over a brisk fire until the cucumbers are tender. Should these bfl bitter, add a lump of sugar; carefully dish them, skim tho sauce, pour over the cucum- bers, and serve. Time.—Altogcthor, 20 minutes. Averacfe cost, when cheapest, \d. each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August; but may be had, forced, from the be- ginning of March. CUCUMBERS, Stewed with Onions Ingredients. —6 cucumbers, 3 moderate- sized onions, not quite 1 pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, a very little grated nut- meg. Mode.—Pare and slice tlie cucum- bers, take out the seeds, and cut the onions into thin slices ; put these both into a stcwpan, with the stock, and let them boil for ^ hour or longer, should the cucumbers be very large. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs; stir these into the sauce ; add the cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg; bring it to tho point of boiling, and sei've. Do not allow the sauce to boil, or it will curdle. This is a favourite dish with lamb or mutton chops, rump- steaks, &;c. Time.—Altogether, 20 mi- nutes. Average cost, when cheaiiest, ItZ. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Sea- tenable in July, August, and September; but may be had, forced, from tho begin- ning of March. CURRANT DUMPLINGS. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, ^ lb. of currants, rather more than A pint of water. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the flour, and add tho currants, which should bo nicely washed, fucked, and dried ; mix tho whole to a imp paste with the water (if wanted very nice, use milk); divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; tie thorn in cloths, and Cui'rant Jam, Black. boil for l\ hour. They may bo boiled without a cloth : they should then bo made into round balls, and dropped into boiling water, and should bo moved abinit at first, to prevent them fiom sticking to the bottom of tlie saucepan. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted sugar. Time.—In a cloth, 1.^ hour; with- out, "4 hour. Average cost, i)d. Suffiicienl' for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. CURRANT FRITTERS. Ingredients.—h pint of milk, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoon-- fuls of boiled rico, 3 tablespoonfuls of"' currants, sugar to taste, a very litLlo grated nutmeg, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Put the milk into a. basin with the flour, which should pre-- viously bo rubbed to a smooth batter: * with a little cold milk ; stir these in- - ' gredients together; add the well-whiskcJ , eggs, the rice, currants, sugar, and nut- meg. Beat the mixture for a few mi-- nutes, and, if not sufficiently thick, add r. little more boiled rice ; drop it, in smaL i quantities, into a pan of boiling lard on m clarified dripping; fry the fritters a nicefl brown,-and, when done, drain them ontM piece of blotting-paper, before tho firoj. Pile them on a white d'oyley, strew ovei r sifted sugar, and servo them very hot . Send a cut lemon to table with them/;. Time.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry tht< fritters. Average cost, dd. Sufficient loi* 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time.. CURRANT JAM, Black. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit-, weighed before being stripped from thi stalks, allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 gill o water. Mode.—Let the fruit bo ven ; ripe, and gathered on a drj' day. Su i; it from the stalks, and put it into a pre serving-pan, with a gill of water to cacl lb. of fruit; boil the.<;e together for 1 j minutes ; then add tho sugar, and Ix^i ^ the jam again for 30 minutes, rcekonin; . from the time when tho jam simmer equally all over, or longer, should it no appear to set nicely when a little i poured on to a plate. Keep stirring i to prevent it from burning, carefuil . remove all tho scum, and when done pour it into pots. Let it cool, cover lb top of the jam with oiled paper, and th ' ■ top of tho jai-s with a piece of ti.ssuc ■' " paper bnisbed over on both sides wit'.' 1