241 THE DICTIONAKY OP COOKERY. Pastry, Iced or Glazed PASTKY, to Ice or Glaze. To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for meat or raised pies, break an egg-, separate the yolk from the white, and beat the former for a short time. Then, when the pastry i:? nearly baked, take it out of the oven, oi^^sh it over with this beaten yolk of egg, rM put it back in the oven to set the glaze. To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate, and with the blade of a knite beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with this, and sift over some pounded sugar ; put it back into the oven to set the glaze, and, in a few minutes, it will be done. Great care should be taken that the paste does not catch or burn in the oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing is laid on. Sufficient.—Allow 1 egg and 1^ oz. of sugar to glaze 3 tarts. PASTBT SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg, sifted sugar. Mode.—Roll the paste out thin; put half of it on a baking-sheet or tin, and spread equally over it apricot, greengage, or any preserve that may be preferred. Lay over this preserve another thin paste; press the edges together all round ; and mark the paste in lines with a knife on the surface, to show where to cut it when baked. Bake from 20 minutes to h hour; and, a short time before being done, take the pastry out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg, sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to colour. When cold, cut it into strips; pile these on a dish pyramidicallyy and serve. These strips, cut about 2 inches long, piled in circular rows, and a plateful of flavoured whipped cream poured in the middle, make a very pretty dish. Tme.—20 minutes to | houi-. Average cost, with ^ lb. of paste. Is. 'ivfficicnt.—i lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of sandwiches. Seasonable at any Vnic, PATE BBISEE, Crust French, for Raised Pies. Ingredients.—'i^o ovcrvlb. of flour allow I saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, \ pint of water, G oz. of butter. Mode.—Spread tto flovir, wbigU should be sjfted and Pea Soup, Inexpensive thoroughly dry, on the paste-board', make a hole in the centre, into which put the butter; work it lightly into the flour, and when quit« fine, add the salt; work the whole into a smooth paste with the eggs (yolks and whites) and water, and make it very firm. Knead the pasta well, and let it be rather stiff, that the sides of the pie may be easily raised, and that they do not afterwards tumble or thrink. Average cost, Is. per lb, £!'ote.—This paste may be very much enriched by making it with equal quan- tities of flour and butter; but then it is not so easily raised as when made plainer. PATTIES, Fried. [Cold Meat Cookebt.] Ingi-edients.— Cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 1 egg boiled hard, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, gravy, cream, 1 tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, good puff-paste. Mode.—Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third ham to two-thirds veal; add an egg boiled bard and chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel; moisten with a little gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste ; roll rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces; put the mince between two of them, pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a light brown. They may also be baked in patty-pans; in that case, they should be brushed over with the yolk of an egg before they are put in the oven. To make a variety, oysters may be substituted for the ham. Time.—16 minutes to fry the patties. Seasonablt from March to October, PEA SOUP (Inexpensive). Ingredients.—\ lb. of onions, | lb. of carrots, 2 oz. of celery, f lb. of split peas, a little mint, shred fine ; 1 tablespoonful of coarse brown sugar, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts of water, or Uquor it which a joint of meat has been boiled. Mode.—Fry the vegetables for 10 minutes in a little butter or dripping, previously cutting them up into small pieces ; pour the water on them, and when boiling add the peas. Let them simmer for nearly 3 hours, or until the peas are thoroughly done. Add the sugar, seasoning, and mint; boil for ^ of an hour, and serve, TifnC'—3^ hour?. Average cott, 1 h,d, per