THE DICTI0NAE7 OF COOKEEY. 107 Duck, Eoast, to carve possible to the body, to plump up the breast, passing the same quiie thi oujih the body. Cut off the heads and necks, and the pinions at the first joint; bring these close to the sides, twist the feet BOAST D0CK. round, and truss thena at the back of the bird. After the duck is stuffed, both ends should be secured with string, so as to keep in the seasoning. Mode.— To insure ducks being tender, never dress them the same day they are killed; and, if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a stuiSng of sage and onion sufficient for one duck, and leave the other unseasoned, as the flavour is not liked by everybody. Put them down to a brisk clear fire, and keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking. A few minutes before serving, dredge them lightly with flour, to make them froth and look plump; and when the steam draws towards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, with a good brown gravy poured round, but not over the ducks, and a little of the same in a tureen. When in season, green peas should invariably accompany this dish. Time. — Full-grown ducks from 5 to 1 hour; ducklings from 25 to 35 minutes. Averuf/e coat, from 2s. 2id. to 2s. 6cZ. each. Svjjicient.—A couple of ducks for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.— Ducklings from April to August; ducks from November to February. DUCK, Koast, to carve. No dishes require so much knowledge and skill in their carving as do game and poultry ; for it is necessary to bo well acquainted with the anatomy of the bird Duck, Koast, to carve. BOAST DUCK. in order to place the knife at exactly the proper point. A tough fowl and an old goose are sad triers of a carver's powers and temper, and, indeed, sometimes of the good humour of those in the neigh- bouvhood of the carver; for p, suddcu tilt LEG, WIWO, AMD NEClfDONB OE' DnCK. of the dish may eventuate in the placmg of a quantity of the gravy in the lap of the right or left-hand supporter of the host. We will endeavour to assist those who are unacquainted with the "gentle art of carving," and also those who are but slightly acquainted with it, by simply de- scribing the rules to follow, and referring to the distinctly- marked illustrations of each dish, which will further help to bring light to the minds of the unini- tiated. If the bird be a young duckling, it may be carved like a fowl, viz., by first taking off the leg and the wing on either side; but in cases where the duckling is vei-y small, it will be as well not to separate the leg from the wing, as they will not then form too large a portion for a single serving. After the legs and wings are disposed of, the remainder of the duck will be also carved in the same manner as a fowl; and not much difficulty will be ex- perienced, as ducklings are tender, and the joints are easilj' broken by a little gentle forcing, or penetrated by the knife. In cases where the duck is a largo bird, the better [ilan to pursue is then to carve it like a goose, that is, by cutting pieces from the breast in the direction indicated by the lines marked from 1 to 2, com- mencing to carve the slices close to the wing, and then proceeding upwards from that to the breastbone. If more should be wanted than can be obtained from both sides of the breast, then the legs and wings must be attacked, in the uame way as is described in connection with carving a fowl. It may be here re- marked, that as the legs of a duck are placed far more backward than those of a fowl, their position causing the wad- dling motion of the bird, the thigh-bones will be found considerably nearer towards the backbone than in a chicken ; this is the only difference worth mentioning. The carver should ask each guest if a portion of stuffing would be agreeable: and in order to get at this, a cut should be made below the breast, as shown by the line from 3 to 4, at the part called tha "apron," and the spoon j«*iert«KU