87 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Cream, Italian the size of the pan and the heat of the fire, but the slower it is done the better. The pan should be placed in the dairy when the cream is sufficiently scalded, and skimmed the following day. This cream is so much esteemed tliat it is sent to the London markets in small square tins, and is exceedingly delicious eaten with fresh fruit. In Devonshire, butter is made from this cream, and is usually rery firm. CEEAM, Italian. Ingredients.—^ pint of milk, i pint of cream, sugar to taste, 1 oz. of isinglass, 1 lemon, the yolks of 4 eggs. Mode.— Put the cream and milk into a saucepan, with sugar to sweeten, and the lemon- rind. Boil until the milk is well fla- voured, then strain it into a basin and add the beaten yolks of eggs. Put this mixture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, md stir the contents until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil. Take the iream off the fire, stir in the lemon-juice ind isinglass, which should bo melted, j.nd whip well; fill a mould, place it in •ce if at hand, and, when set, turn it out 3n a dish, and garnish as taste may dic- ;ate. The mixture may be whipped and Irained, and then put into small glasses, vhen this mode of serving is preferred. Time.—Fi-om 5 to 8 minutes to stir the fixture in the jug. Average cost, with ;he best isinglass, 2s. Qd. Sufficient to ill 1^ pint mould. Seasonable at any iime. SEE AM SAUCE, for Fish or White Dishes. Ingredients.—\ pint of cream, 2 oz. of )utter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and xxyenne to taste; when liked, a small quantity of pounded mace or lemon-juice. ilode.—Put the butter in a very clean laucepan, dredge in the flour, and keep ihaking round till the butter is melted. \dd the seasoning and cream, and stir he whole till it boils; let it just simmer "or 5 minutes, when add either pounded nace or lemon-juice to taste to give it a lavour. Time.—5 minutes to simmer. iverage cost for this quantity, 7d. Note.—This sauce may bo flavoured *ith very finely-shredded shalot. ;3IIEAM, Stone, of tons les Mois. ingredunU.—ji Iti of preserve, 1 pint Cream, Vanilla of milk, 2 oz. of lump sugar, 1 heaped tablespoonful of tous les mois, 3 drops of essence of cloves, 3 drops of almond- flavouring. Mode. —Place the preserve at the bottom of a glass dish ; put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and make it boil. Mix to a smooth batter the tous les mois with a very little cold milk ; stir it briskly into the boiling milk, add the flavouring, and simmer for 2 minutes. When rather cool, but before turning solid, pour the cream over the jam, and ornament it with strips of red-currant jelly or preserved fruit. Time. —2 minutes. Average cost, lOrf. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. CKEAM, Swiss. Ingredients.—| lb. of macaroons or 6 small sponge-cakes, sherry, 1 pint of cream, 5 oz. of lump sugar, 2 large table- spoonfuls of arrowroot, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of ^ lemon, 3 table- spoonfuls of milk. Mode.—Lay the ma- caroons or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour over them as much sherry as will cover them, or sufficient to soak them well. Put the cream into a lined sauce- pan, with the sugar and lemon-rind, and let it remain by the side of the fire until the cream is well flavoured, when take out the lemon-rind. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cold milk ; add this to the cream, and let it boil gently for about 3 minutes, keeping it well stu-red. Take it off the fire, stir till nearly cold, when add the lemoii-juice, and pour the whole over the cakes. Garnish the cream with strips of angelica, or candied citron cut thin, or bright-coloured jeUy or preserve. This cream is exceedingly delicious, fla- voured with vanilla instead of lemon: when this flavouring is used the sherry may be omitted, and the mixture poured over the dry cakes. Time.—About h hour to _ infuse the lomon-rind ; 5 minutes to boil the cream. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 3s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. CREAM, Vaniila. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of isinglass, flavouring to taste of essence of vanilla. JiocZe.—Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and let it get hot over a slow fire; beat up the yolks of the eggs, to which add gradually the sweetened milk j