THE DICTIOiTAEY OF COOltERt. &3 Calf's Liver and Bacon utter. When they are done, put them la dish, which keep hot before the fii-e. ^ince the herbs very fine, put them in le frying-pan with a little more butter ; id the remaining ingredients, simmer mtly until the herbs ai*e done, and pour _'er the liver. Time.—According to the dckness of the slices, from 5 to 10 inutes. Avei-affe cost, lOd.-per Ih. Suf- rient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from arch to October. AiF'S LIVER and BACON Ingredients.—2 or 3 lbs. of liver, bacon, pper and salt to taste, a small piece butter, flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon- ice, \ pint of water. Mode.—Cut the rer in thin slices, and cut as many ces of bacon as there are of liver; fry 6 bacon first, and put that on a hot sh before the fire. Fry the liver in the which comes from the bacon, after asoning it with pepper and salt and edging over it a very little flour. Turn e liver occasionally to prevent its burn- and when done, lay it round the ih with a piece of bacon between each, ur away the bacon fat, put in a small 3ce of butter, dredge in a little flour, d the lemon-juice and water, give one lil, and pour it in the middle of the 3h. It may be garnished with slices of lemon, or forcemeat balls. Time.— icording to the thickness of the slices, im 5 to 10 minutes. Average cost, lOd. r lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. asonable from March to October. !ILF'3 LIVEE, Larded and poasted (an Entree). \Ingredients.—A. calf's liver, vinegar, (onion, 3 or 4 sprigs of parsley and i^'me, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay- if, lardoons, brown gravy. Mode.— ike a fine white liver, and lard it the me as a f ricandeau; put it into vinegar Bih an onion cut in slices, parsley, vrae, bay-leaf, and seasoning in the jjve proportion. Let it remain in this ikle for 24 hours, then roast and baste i'requently with the vinegar, &c.; glaze , j serve under it a good brown gravy, •jlfcauce piquante, and send it to table 'l^-hot. yme.—Rather more than 1 Average cost, IM. per lb. Suf- ' l for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from ';h to October. Calf's liver stuffed with force- b (*ee FOEOEMEAT), to which has Cannelons, or Fried Puffs been added a little fat bacon, will be found a very savoury dish. It should be larded or wrapped in buttered paper, and roasted befoi-e a clear fire. Brown gravy and currant jelly should be served with it. CAMP VIlSrEGAR. Ingredients.—1 head of garlic, | oz. cayenne, 2 teaspooufuls of soy, 2 ditto walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar, cochi- neal to coloui". Mode.—Slice the garlic, and put it, with all the above ingredients, into a clean bottle. Let it stand to infuse for a month, when strain it off quite clear, and it will be fit for use. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, to exclude the air. Average cost for this quantity, Qd. CANARY PUDDING (very good). Ingredients.—The weight of 3 eggs in sugar and butter, the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs. Mode. —Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir to this the sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel, and gradually dredge in the flour, keep- ing the mixtiu-e well stirred ; whisk the eggs ; add these to the pudding ; beat all the ingredients until thoroughly blended, and put them into a buttered mould or basin; boU for 2 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—2 hours. Ave- rage cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. CANNELONS, or Fried Puffs (Sweet Entremets). Ingredients.—^Ib. of puff-paste ; apri- cot, or any kind of preserve that may be preferred; hot lard, il/oc^e.—Cannelons, which are made of puff-paste rolled very thin, with jam inclosed, and cut out in long narrow rolls or puffs, make a very pretty and elegant dish. Make some good puff- paste by the recipe given; roll it out very thin, and cut it into pieces of an equal size, about 2 inches wide and 8 inches long; place upon each piece a spoonful of jam, wet the edges with the white of egg, and fold the paste over twice / slightly press the edges together, that the jam may not escape in the fry- ing ; and when all are prepared, fry them in boiling lard until of a nice brown, letting them remain by the side of the fire after they aro coloured, that the paste may be thoroughly dono. Drain