The General Servant. n in, and most beneficial to the little darlings, who go merrily to Bedfordshire." 170. If guests are expected at any time, rooms should be well aired, and jrything placed in readiness; chimneys aired by good fires, so as to have smoke to dishearten the arriving guests, or to blacken the dainty toilet •angements. 171. M'ltton and beef should hang for ten days if the weather be cold, and a week under any conditions. 172. In order to allure guests to our table we must give them a good dinner; more, we must have and enjoy the reputation of a good cook, a good ar, a carefully-appointed table, and quiet, clever waiting. The damask lecloth must be spotless, the napkins folded in the last mode, flowers arranged the table with or without the dessert. The glasses should be brilliant, the er well polished, and plenty of light, either gas, lamp, or, best of all, wax ts. The waiting should be performed noiselessly. Unless men-servants are ■oughly well drilled, it is better to dispense with their services; at any rate, ot employ anyone from the stable to assist the footman. The aroma arising the ordinary duties of coachman, groom, or stable-boy is too plainly eptible in a dining-room, and is very trying to delicate persons. A neat, looking housemaid is far pleasanter than such " grooms in waiting." I 173. That the dinner may be perfect, we must study what is seasonable as well ^hat is nice. Good housewives will replace all glass and china in fitting order 1 day following any little party. Fruit should be removed from delicately- ited dessert services as soon as the convives assemble in the drawing-room. Ihere is not time to wash them up at once (by far the best plan), the first i tunity should be taken of doing so, and before going to bed this should Uone. pi. In extinguishing wax candles in chandeliers, candelabra, and piano candle- E8, care should be taken to avoid disturbing the wax ; if blown out, the hand M be placed behind the light to guard the " spirt" of wax from the carpet, but the neatest plan is to have an extinguisher mounted on a long stick, and I! lights extinguished one by one by this. THE GENERAL SERVANT. .75. Whether the entire Work of a Household can be efficiently performed li one servant, is a question very frequently discussed, and one that often gives Ito a very considerable diversity of opinion. Our own judgment—deduced from experience—is, that it can be done. That a methedical^ considerate mistress.