219 -J^fitJ DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. October, Things in Season. Monday.—'i. The remains of codfish, flaked, and warmod in a maitre d'hStel sauce. 2. Cold mutton and salad, veal cutlets and rolled bacon, French beuns and potatoes. 3. Arrowroot blancmange and stewed damsons. Tuesday.—1. Roast hare, gravy, and red-currciut jelly ; hashed mutton, vege- tables. 2. Currant dumplings. Wednesday. — 1. Jugged hare, from remains of roast ditto ; boiled knuckle of veal and rice; boiled bacon cheek. 2. Apple pudding. Tkursday.—1. Roast leg of pork, apple sauce, greens, and potatoes. 2. llice snowballs. Friday.—1. Slices of pork, broiled, and tomato sauce, mashed potatoes; roast pheasants, bread sauce, and gravy. 2. Baked apple pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pie, sweet- breads. 2. Ginger pudding. OCTOBEB, Things in Season. Fis/i —Biu'bel, brill, cod, crabs, eels, flounders, guilgeons, haddocks, lobsters, mullet, oysters, plaice, prawns, skate, soles, tench, turbot, whiting. Meat. — Beef, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Chickens, fowls, geese, larks, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, teal, turkeys, widg(^ons, wild ducks. Oame. — Blackcock, grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcocks, doe veiiis'in. Veyetables. — Artichokes, beets, cab- bages, cauliflowers, carrots, celery, let- tuces, mushrooms, onions, potatoes, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows, — various herbs. Fruit.—Apples, black and white bul- laces, damsons, figs, filberts, grapes, pears, quinces, walnuts. OMELET. Ingredients. —6 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, ^ saltspoonful of pepper, \ lb. of butter. J/(/c/e. —Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the whites of 3, and boat them up with the salt and pepper until extremely liglit ; then adil 2 oz. of the butter broken into small pieces, and Btir this into the mixture. Put the other OMELBI, Omelet, the Cure's 2 oz. of butter into a frying-pan, make it quite hot, and, as soon as it begins to bubble, whisk the eggs, &c., very briskly for a minute or two, and pour them into the pan ; stir the omelet with a spoim one way until the mixture thickens and be- comes firm, and when the whole is set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet assumes an oval form; and when it is nicely brown on one siile, and quiie firm, it is done. To take off the rawness on the upper side, hold the pan before the tire for a minute or two, and brown it with a salamander or hot shovel. Serve very expeditiously on a very hot dish, and never cook until it is just wanted. The flavour of this omelet may be very much enhanced by adding minced pars- ley, minced onion or eschalot, or grated cheese, allowing 1 tablespoonful of the former, and half the quantity of the latter, to the above pruportion of eggs. Shrimps or oysters may also be added: the latter should be scalded in their liquor, and then bearded and cut into small pieces. In making an omelet, be particularly carel'ul that it is not too thin, and, to avoid this, do not make it in too large a frying-pan, as the mi.Mure would then spread too much, and taste of the outside. It should also not bo greasy, burnt, or too much done, and should be cooked over a gentle fire, that the whole of the substance may be heated without drying up the outsirie. Omelets are sometimes served with gravy ; but this should never be poured over them, but served in a tureen, as the liquid causes the omelet to become heavy and fiat, instead of eating light and soft. la making the gravy, the flavour should not overpower that of the omelet, and should be thickened with arrowroot or rice flour. I'ime.—With 6 eggs, in a frying-pan 18 or 20 inches round, 4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. OMELET, The Cure's, or Omelette au Thon. Ingredients.—Take for 6 persons, the roes of 2 carp ;* bleach them, by putting them, for 6 minutes, in boiling water • An American writer says he has followed this recipe, substituting pike, shad, &o., iu tho place of carp, and can recommend all these also, with a quiet oonaoienoe. Any fish, indeed, maj be used with auccess.