THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 280 Bliubnrb Pudding, Boiled RHUBARB PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—i or 5 sticks of fine rhu- barb, i lb. of moist sugar, ^ lb. of suet- crust. Mode.—Mako a suet-crust with ^ lb. of flour, and line a buttered basin with it. Wash and wipe the rhubarb, and, if old, string it—that is so say, pare off the outside skin. Cut it into inch lengths, fill the basin with it, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2 to 2i hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream and sifted sugar. Timg.—2 to 2| hours. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from February to May. / RHUBARB TART. / Ingredients.—nib. of puff-paste, about 6 sticks of large rhubarb, ^ Jb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Make a puff^-crust; line the edges of a deep pie-dish with it, and wash, wipe, and cut the rhubarb into pieces about 1 inch long. Should it be old and tough, string it—that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Pile the fruit high in the dish, as it shrinks very much in the cooking; put in the sugar, cover with crusty' ornament the edges, and bake the t&ri in a well-heated oven from h to ^ hour. If wanted very nice, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, then sprinkle on it some sifted sugar, and put it in the oven just to set the glaze: this should be done when the tart is nearly baked. A small ((uantity of lemon-juice, and a little of the peel minced, are by many persons considered an improvement to the flavour of rhubarb tart. Time.—^ to ^ hour. -•! verage cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 persons. Seasonable from February to May. RHUBARB WINE, Ingredients.—To every 5 lbs, of rhu- barb pulp allow 1 gallon of cold spring water ; to every gallon of liquor allow 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, ^ oz. of isinglass, the rind of 1 lemon. Mode.—Gather the rhubarb about the middle of May ; wipe it with a wot cloth, and, with a mallet, bruise it in a largo wooden tub or other convenient means. When reduced to a pulp, weigh it, and to every 5 lbs. add 1 gallon of cold spring water ; let these re- main for 3 days, stirring 3 or 4 times a Rice Blancmango day; and on the fourth day, press the pulp through a hair sieve; put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar ; stir in the sugar until it is quite dissolved, and add the lemon-rind ; let the liquor remain, and, in 4, 5, or G days,-the fermentation will begin to sub- side, and a crust or head will be formed, which should be skimmed off, or the liquor drawn from it, when the crust begins to crack or separate. Put the wine into a cask, and if, after that, it ferments, rack it off into another cask, and in a fortnight stop it down. If the wine should have lost any of its original sweetness, add a little more loaf sugar, taking care that the cask is full. Bottle it off in February or March, and in the summer it should be fit to drink. It will improve greatly by keeping ; and, should a very briUiant colour be desired, add ti\ little currant-juice. Seasonable. Makes this about the middle of May. RICE BISCUITS, or Cakes. Ingredients.—To every ^ lb. of rice- - flour, allow { lb. of pounded lump sugar,, \ lb. of butter, 2 eggs. Mode.—Bcatt the butter to a cream, stir in the rice- flour and pounded sugar, and moisten the whole with the eggs, which should be previously well beaten. Roll out the paste, shape it with a round paste-cutter into small cakes, and bake them from 12.' to ] 8 minutes in a very slow oven. Time, - —12 to 18 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient to make about 18 cakes. Sea- • sonable at any time. RICE BLANCMANGE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of lemon- peel, essence of almonds or vanilla, or laurel-leaves. Mode. —Mix the rice to a smooth batter with about h pint of the Inilk, and the remainder put into a sauce- pan, with the sugar, butter, and which- ever of the above flavourings may be preferred ; bring the milk to the boiling- point, quickly stir.in the rice, and let it boil for about 10 minutes, or until it comes easily away from the saucepan, keeping it well stirred the whole time. Grease a mould with pure salad-oil; pour in the rice, and let it get perfectly set, when it should turn out quite easily; garnish it with jam, or pour round a compOto of any kind of fruit, just befort