THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 197 Meringues ud, with a woodcD spoon, stir in qidchly he pounded sutrar; and have some )oards thick enough to put in the ovea ,0 prevent the bottom of the meringues iom acquiring too much colour. Cut ome strips of paper about 2 inches wide; )lace this paper on the board, and drop k tablespoonful at a time of the mixture >n the paper, taking care to let all the neringues be the same size. In dropping t from the spoon, give the mixture the orm of an egg, and keep the meringues ibout 2 inches apart from each other on ,he paper. Strew over them some sifted lugar, and bake in a moderate oven for i hour. As soon as they begin to colour, •cmove them from the oven ; take each dip of paper by the two ends, an*d turn t gently on the table, and, with a small spoon, take out the soft part of each neringue. Spread some clean paper on ;he board, turn the meringues upside MEBINGUE3. down, and put them into the oven to tiarden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with whipped cream, flavoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Join two of the meringues toge- ther, and pile them high in the dish, as shown in the annexed drawing. To vary their appearance, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over; and they may be garnished with any bright- coloured preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making this sweet dish; as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former melts, and tho mix- ture would run on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-shapo. The sweeter the meringues are made,the crisper will they bo ; but, if there is not sufficient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be tough. Thoy aro sometimes coloured Milk and Cream, to keep with cochineal; and, if kept well covered in a dry place, will remain good for a month or six weeks. Time.—Altogether, about .3 hour. Average cost, with the cream and flavouring. Is. Sufficient to make 2 dozen meringues. Seasonable at any time. MILK. Milk, when of good quality, is of an opaque white colour : the cream always comes to the top ; the well-known milky odour is strong; it will boil without altering its appearance in these respect^ the little bladders which arise on th& surface will renew themselves if broke^ by the spoon. To boil milk is, in factj the simplest way of testing its quality. The commonest adulterations of milk are not of a hurtful character. It is a good deal thinned with water, and some- times thickened with a little starch, or coloured with yolk of egg, or even ^ saffrou ; but these processes have no- thing murderous in them. MILK AND CREAM, to keep, in hot Weatlier. When the weather is very warm, and it is very diflicult to prevent milk from turning sour and spoiling the cream, it should be scalded, and it will then re- main good for a few hoius. It must on no account be allowed to boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk ; and the slower the process the safer will it be. A very good plan to scald miik, is to put the pan that con- tains it into a saucepan or wide kettle of boiling water. When the surface looks thick, the milk is sufiiciently scalded, and it should then be put away in a cool place in the same vessel that it was scalded in. Cream may be kept for 24 hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by tho addition of the latter ingredient, it will remain good double the time, if kept in a cool place. All pans, jugs, and vessels intended for milk, should be kept beautifully clean, and well scalded before the milk is put in, as any negli- gence in this respect may cause large quantities of it to be spoiled ; and milk shotild never be kept in vessels of zinc or copper. Milk may be preserved good in' hot weather, for a few hours, by placing the jug which contains it in ice, or very cold water; or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be introduced into the liquid, '