^3 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bacon, to Cure indn the pickle, and the hams 3 weeks; roin 30 lbs. and upwards, 3 weeks will required tor the sides, &c., and from > 5 weeks for the hams. On taking pieces out, let them drain for an ir, cover with dry sawdust, and smoke n a fortnight to three weeks. Boil carefully skim the pickle after using, it will keep good, closely corked, for jars, Wlien boiling it for use, add at 2 lbs. of common salt, and the e of treacle, to allow for waste, gues are excellent put into this pickle 1, having been first rubbed well with netre and salt, and allowed to remain i )urs, not forgetting to make a deep sion under the thick part of the rue, so as to allow the pickle to 3trate more readily. A fortnight or e weeks, according to the size of the fue, will be sufficient. Time.—Small t to remain in the pickle a fortnight, s 3 weeks ; to be smoked from a fort- it to 3 weeks, CON", to Cure in the Wiltshire wuy. ^redients.—\\lb, of coarse sugar \ lb, S.y salt, 6 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of ion salt. Mode.—Sprinkle each ditch salt, and let the blood drain olf for urs ; then pound and mix the above idients well together and rub it well the meat, which should be turned r day for a month ; then hang it to and afterwards smoke it for 10 days. !.—To remain in the pickle from > to four weeks, to be smoked 10 or rather longer. IJON, Fried Rashers of, and •cached Eggs. jredients.—Bacon ; eggs. Mode.— ho bacon into thin slices, trim away Tisty parts, and cut off the rind. Put ^fto a cold frying-pan, that is to say, Dt place the pan on the fire before tho 's in it. Turn it 2 or 3 times, and on a very hot dish. Poach the eggs jp them on to the bacon without ng the yolks, and serve quickly. —3 or 4 minutes. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for tho primest parts. ',nt.—Allow 6 eggs for 3 persons, able at any time. Note. — Fried s of bacon, curled, servo as a garnish to many dishes ; and, for families, answer very well as a Barberries substitute for boiled bacon, to serve with a small dish of poultry, &c. The Bain Marie, — Ifc is an open kind of vessel, as shown in the engrav- ing, and is a utensil much used in modern THE BAIN MAHIE, cookery, both in English and French kitchens. It is filled with boiling or nearly boiling water ; and into this water should be put all the stewpans containing those ingredients which it is desired to keep hot. The quantity and quality of the contents of these vessels are not at all affected; and if the hour of dinner is uncertain in any establishment, by reason of the nature of the master's business, nothing is so sure a means of preserving the flavour of all dishes as the employ- ment of the bain maiie. BARBEL. Ingredients.—I pint of port wine, a saltspoonful of "salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 sliced onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, nutmeg and mace to taste, the juice of a lemon, 2 anchovies; 1 or 2 barbels, according to size. Mode. —Boil the barbels in salt and water till done ; pour off some of the water, and to the remainder put the ingredients mentioned above. Simmer gently for ^ hour or rather more, and strain. Put in tho fishj heat it gradually, but do not let itboil, or it will be broken. Time.—Alto- gether 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable ivom September to November. BARBERRIES (Berberris vulgaris). A fruit of such great acidity, that even birds refuse to eat it. In this respect, it nearly approaches the tamarind. When boiled with sugar, it makes a very agree- able preserve or jolly, according to tho dilForent modes of preparing it. Barber- ries are also used as a dry sweetmeat, and in sugai-plums or comfits; are pickled with vinegar, and are used for various culinary purposes. They are well calculated to allay heat and thirst in persons afflicted with fevers. The berries, arranged oa