THE DiCTIONARY OF COOKERI?. 2G2 Pork, Pickled, to Boil It molts on the top, strew on more. Lay a coarse cloth over tho pan, a board oVor that, and a weight on the board, to keep tho pork down in the brine. If excluded from the air, it will continue pood for nearly 2 years. Average cost, IQd. per lb. for the prime parts. Season- able.—The best time for pickling meat is ]-ite in tho autumn. POBK, Pickled, to Boil. Ingredients.—Pork; water. Mode.— Should the pork be very salt, let it re- main in water about 2 hours before it is dressed; put it into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, let it gradually come to a boil, then gently simmer until quite tender. Allow ample t/me for it to cook, as nothing is more disagreeable than underdone pork, and when boiled fast, the meat becomes hard. This is sometimes served with boiled poultry and roast veal, instead of bacon : when tender, and not over salt, it will be found equally good. Time.— A piece of pickled pork weighing 2 lbs., 1.^ hour; 4 lbs., rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable at any time. PORK PIES (Warwickshire Re- cipe). Ingredients.—For the crust, 5 lbs. of lard to 14 lbs. of flour; milk, and water. For filling tho pies, to every 3 lbs. of meat allow 1 oz. of salt, 2.| oz. of pejiper, a small qunntity of cayenne, 1 pint of water. Mode.—Rub into the flour a por- tion of the lard ; the remainder put with sufficient milk and water to mix the crust, and boil this gently for ,| hour. Pour it boiling on the flour, and knead and beat it till perfectly smooth. Now raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up tho pork into pieces ', the size of a nut, season it iu tho above ' proportion, and press it compactly into / the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of water; lay on the lid, cut tho cdf,es Bmoothly roimd, and pinch them to- gether. Bake in a brick oven, which should bo slow, as the meat is very solid. Very frequently, an inexperienced cook finds much ditticulty in raising tho crust. She should bear in mind tliat it must not be allowed to got cold, or it will fall immediately: to pr.vcnt thi.s, tho operation should be performed as Potato Fritters near the fire as possible. As consider- able dexterity and expertness are ne- cessary to raise tho crust with the hand ' only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed in tho middle of tho paste, and the criLst moulded on this ; but bo par- ' ticular that it is kept warm tho whole - time. Sufficient.—ThQ proportions for 1 pie are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs. of meat ^ Seasonable from September to March. PORK PIES, Little Raised. [ Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, A lb. of •' butter, ^ lb. of mutton suet, salt andi - white pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of the neck ■'■ of pork, ] dessertspoonful of powdered. sage. Mode.—Well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt. When melted, mix it up into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready to make up; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt, and powdered sage; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in ai round or oval form, fill with the meat,, and bake in a brick oven. These pies < • will require a fiercer oven than those in i ^ the preceding recipe, as they are made .■ --^ so much smaller, and consequentl}- do' not require so soaking a heat. Time.— If made small, about 1.^ hour. Season- ■ able from Sei^tember to March. POTATO FRITTERS. ^ Ingredients.—2 large potatoes, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 ditto of raisin or sweet wine, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, h teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, hot lard. Mode.—Boil the po- tatoes, and beat them up lightly with a. fork, but do not use a- spoon, as that: would make them heav}'. Beat tho eggs ; well, leaving out one of tho whites ; add I h> tho other ingredients, and beat all to- gcther for at least 20 minutes, or until the batter is extremely light. Put plenty of good lard into a frying-pan, and drop a tablespoonful of tho batter at a time into it, and fry the fritters a nice brown. Serve them with the following sauce :— A glass of sherry mixed with the strained juice of a lemon, and suCBcient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Warm those ingredients, and serve (he sauce scparatelj' in a tureen. Tho frit- ters should be neatly dished on a white d'oyley, and pounded sugar spnnklodi