TnE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 330 Stocks for all kinds of Soupa somotimos produced by inserting a small pioco of decayed Cheshire into an aper- ture at the top. From 3 weeks to a month is sufficient time to ripen the cheese. An additional Havour may also be obtained by scooping out a piece from the top, and pouring therein port, sherry, Madeira, or old ale, and letting the cheese absorb these for two or three weeks. But that cheese is the finest which is ripened without any artificial aid, is the opinion of those who are judges in those matters. In serving a Stilton cheese, the top of it should be cut off to form a lid, and a napkin or piece of white paper, with a frill at the top, pinned round. When the cheese goes from table, the lid should be replaced. STOCKS for all kinds of Soups (Kich Strong Stock). Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 5 lb. of good lean ham ; any poultry trimmings ; 2 oz. of butter ; 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 turnips (the latter should be omitted in summer, lest they ferment), 1 head of celery, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtainable; 1 tomato, a bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley; 1^ oz. of salt, 3 lumps of sugar, 12 white peppercorns, 6 cloves, 3 small blades of mace, 4 quarts of water, il/oc^e.—Line a delicately clean stewpan with the ham cut in thin broad slices, carefully trimming off all its msty fat; cut up the beef and veal in pieces about 3 inches square, and lay them on the ham; set it on the stove, and draw it down, and stir frequently. When the meat is equally browned, put in the beef dnd veal bones, the poultry trimmings, and pour in the cold water. Skim well, and occasionally add a little cold water, to stop its boiling, until it becomes quite clear ; then put in all the other ingredi- ents, and simmer very slowly for 5 hours. Do not let it come to a brisk boil, that the stock be not wasted, and that its colour may be preserved. Strain through a very fine hair sieve, or cloth, and the stock will be fit for use. Time. — 5 hours. Average coat, Is. 3d. per quart. STOCK, Economical. Ingredients.—Tho liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, say 4 quarts; trimmings of fresh meat or poiUtry, shank-bones, &c., roast-beef bones, any pieces the larder may fur- Stock, to Clarify nish; vegetables, spice.s, and tho sa - seasoning as in tho foregoing reci j ^ Mode.—Let all the ingredients simr . ti gently for G hours, taking caro to sk. ■„ carefully at first. Strain it off, and ] by for use. Time.—6 houi's. Aver ^ cost, 3d. per quart. STOCK, Medium. 6' Ingredients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. each ; any bones, trimmings of poult - or fresh meat, | lb. of lean bacon - ham, 2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, e: , stuck t^Hh 3 cloves ; 1 turnip, 3 carrc 1 head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 of salt, h a teaspoonful of whole pepf 1 largo blade of mace, 1 bunch of savo' • herbs, 4 quarts and h pint of cold wat Mode.—Cut up the meat and bacon r ham into pieces of about 3 inches squa rub the butter on the bottom of : - stewpan ; put in ^ a pint of water, \. meat, and all the other ingrediei Cover the stewpan, and place it 01 . sharp fire, occasionally stirring its c j tents. When the bottom of the pan comes covered with a pale, jel'iy-l 'i^i substance, add the 4 quarts of cold ter, and simmer very gently for 5 hoi . As we have said before, do not let it 1 T quickly. Remove every particle of sc T. whilst it is doing, and strain it throi ^ a fine hair sieve. This stock is the b: ^. of most of the soups mentioned in i dictionary, and will be found quite strc .. enough for ordinary purposes. Time 5S hours. Average cost, 9d. per quar STOCK, To Clarify. r. Ingredients.—The whites of 2 ci: ^ pint of water, 2 quarts of sto Mode.—Supposing that by some accid the soup is not quite clear, aud that quantity is 2 quarts, take the white.' - 6; 2 eggs, carefully separated from tt yolks, whisk them well together w tho water, and add gradually tho 2 qua 5. of boiling stock, still whisking. PI tho soup on tho fire, and when boil and well skimmed, whisk tho eggs w tj: it till nearly boiling again ; then di | it from the fire, and let it settle, ui tho whites of tho eggs become sejiarat Pass through a fine cloth, and the si should bo clear. jV^o^c.—Tlo nilo is, that all clear so^ should bo of a light straw-colour, ; should not savciur too strongly of »'•