169 TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKEfiY. June-Bills of Fare First Course.—Grecn-pca soup ; rico oup ; salmon and lobster sauco ; trout la Gen^vgso ; whitebait. Entrees.— i.ub cutlets and cucumbers ; fricasseed -ken ; stowed veal and peas ; lobster oles. Second Course.—lioast quarter lamb and spinach ; filet do bceuf k la irdinibrc; boiled fowls; braised shoulder f lamb ; tongue ; vegetables. Third >'.r«e.—Goslings ; ducklings; Nessol- 10 pudding; Charlotte la Parisionno; jseberry tartlets; strawberry cream \ June-Bills of Fare raspberry-and-currant tart; custards ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup ; salmon trout and parsley-and-butter ; red mul- let. Entrees.—Stewed breast of veal and peas ; mutton cutlets h, la Maintenon. Second Course. — Roast fillet of vcal; boiled leg of lamb, garnished with young carrots ; boiled bacon-cheek ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast ducks ; leveret; gooseberry tart ; strawberry cream ; strawberry tartlets ; meringues ; cabinet pudding; iced pudding; dessert and ices. Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; trout la Gen6vdse ; salmon cutlets Entrees, —Lamb cutlets and peas; fricasseed chicken. Second Course.—Roast ribs of beef; half calf's head, tongue, and brains ; boiled ham ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast ducks; comp6te of goose- berries ; strawberry jelly ; pastry ; iced pudding ; cauliliower with cream sauco ; dessert and ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; boiled salmon and lobster sauce. Entrees.— Veal cutlets and endive ; ragotlt of duck and green peas. Second Course.—Roast loin of veal; boiled leg of lamb and white sauce ; tongue, garnished ; vege- tables. Third Course. — Strawberry cream ; gooseberry tartlets ; almond pudding ; lobster salad; dessert. First Course.—Calf's head soup ; mac- kerel h, la maltre d'hOtel; whitebait. Entrees.—Chicken cutlets ; curried lob- ster. Second Course.—Fore-quarter of lamb and salad ; stewed beef k la Jar- diniere ; vegetables. Third Course.— Goslings; green-currant tart; custards, in glasses ; strawberry blancmange ; 80ufil(5 of rice; dessert. First Course.—Green-pea soup ; baked soles aux fines herbes ; stewed trout. Entrees.—Calf s liver and bacon; rissoles. Second Course.—Roast saddle -of lamb and salad ; calf's head h. la tortue; vege- tables. Third Course.—Roast ducks; Tol-au-vent of strawberries and cream; Entrees, Lamb Cutlets and o Peas. o* o'3 (a Vase of >^ p Flowers. pa oi-s ^ -A •c ^ o' ca Larded Sweetbreads. S H Second Course. Saddle of Lamb. ToDgue. do a tr P O —■CO dj SO) Vase of O g 1 Flowers. -a * ° -S n Ham. Soiled Calf's Head. Third Coxirse, JjJ Leveret, p . removed by 3 cr? Iced Pudding. CO Wine Jelly. g 3' Vase of Is o-r- Flowers. -g-^^ ~ - CO Blancmange. ""M Q 26 g • ^ GoslinM, w* ' removed by % to Fondues, in cases. Dessert and Ices, dinner for 12 persons.