323 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Soup, Cliaiitilly M. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. SOUP, Chantilly. Ingredients.—1 quart of young green peas, a small bunch of parsley, 2 j'oung onions, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode. —Boil the peas till quite tender, with the parsley and onions ; then rub them through a sieve, and pour the stock to them. Do not let it boil after the peas are added, or you will spoil the colour. Serve very hot. Tme.—§ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 8 persons. ^ote.—Cold peas pounded in a mortar, with a little stock added to them, make a very good soup in haste. SOUP, Calfs-head. Ingredients.—h of calf's head, 1 onion stuck with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, 2 blades of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, 6 oz. of rice-flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 3 quarts of white stock, or pot-liquor, or water. Mode.—Rub the head with salt, soak it for 6 hours, and clean it thoroughly, put it in the stewpan, and cover it with the stock, or pot-liquor, or water, adding the onion and sweet herbs. When well skimmed and boiled for 1.^ hour, take out the head, and skim and strain the soup. Mix the rice-floiu" with tho ketchup, thicken the soup with it, and limmer for 5 minutes. Now cut up the lead into pieces about two inches long, land simmer them in tho soup till the Imeat and fat are quite tendci*. Season •with white pepper and mace finely ifcoundcd, and serve very hot. AVhen [the calfs head is taken out of tho soup, Icover it up or it will discolour. Time.— |2i| hours. Average cost, Is. ^d. per quart, Jwith stock. Seasonable from May to lOctober. Sufficient for 10 persons. 1 Notf.—Force-meat balls can be added, land the soup may bo flavoured with a Aittle lemon-juice, or a glass of sherry or ^ladeira. The bones from tho head may M)e stewed down again, with a few fresh ■vegetables, and it will make a very good ftiommon stock. ■BOUP, h la Cantatrice. (An Excel- V lent Soup, very Beneficial for the ■ Voice.) Jj Ingredients.—3 oz. of sago, h pint of Iweam, tho yolks of ' -ggs, I'lump of Soup, a la Flamande sugar, and seasoning to taste, 1 bay-leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock.-— Mode.—Having washed the sago in boil- ing water, let it be gradually added to the nearly boiling stock. Simmer for ^ hour, when it should be well dissolved. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream; stir these quickly in the soup, and serve imme- diately. Do not let the soup boil, or.the eggs will curdle. Time.—40 minutes. Average cost. Is. &d. per quart. Season- able all the year. SufficieiU for 8 persons. Note.—This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which, sago and eggs, have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat. In various quantities, and in different preparations, these have been partaken of by the pi-in- cipal singers of the day, including the celebrated Swedish Nightingale, Jenny Lind, and, as they have always avowed, with considerable advantage to the voice, in singing. SOUP, h la Crecy, Ingredients.—4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce, and chervil; 2 oz. butter, 1 pint of lentils, the crumbs of 2 French rolls, half a teacupful of rice, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode.—Put the vege- tables with the butter in the stewpan, and let them simmer 5 minutes; then add the lentils and 1 pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. Now fill it up with the remainder of the stock, let it boil another hour, and put in the crumb of the rolls. When well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled ; pour the soup over this, and serve. Tivie.—1| hour. Average cost, Is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. SOUP, h la Flamande (Flemish). Ingredients.—1 turnip, 1 small carrot, J head of celeiy, 6 green onions shred very fine, 1 lettuce cut small, chervil, | pint of asparagus cut small, ^ pint of peas, 2 oz. butter, the yo) ks of 4 eggs, h pint of cream, salt to taite, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Pat tho vegetables in tho butter to stew gently for an hour with a teacupful of stock; then add tho remainder of the stock, and simmer for another hour. Now beat tho yolks of the eggs well, mix with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve. Taktf the