THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 297 Sago Sauce for Sweet Puddings 3 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, 1^ oz. of butter, gi'ated nutmeg, puif-paste. Mode.— Put the milk and lemon-rind into a stew- pan, place it by the side of the fire, and let it remain until the milk is well fla- voured with the lemon ; then strain it, mix with it the sago and sugar, and simmer gently for about 15 minutes. Let the mixture cool a little, and stir to it the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter. Line the edges of a pie- dish with puff-paste, pour in the pud- ding, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake from f to 1 hour. Time.—J to 1 hour, or longer if the oven is very slow. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. A^ote.—The above pudding may be boiled instead of baked; but then allow 2 extra tablespoonfuls of sago, and boil the pudding in a buttered basin from 1^ to 1^ hour, SAGO SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of sago, i pint of water, ^ pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of 1 small lemon, sugar to taste ; when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinnamon. Mode.— Wash the sago in two or three waters; then put it into a saucepan, with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for 10 minutes, then t ake out the lemon-peel,add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon-juice before adding it to the sauce. This, on trial, will be found a delicious accom- paniment to various boiled puddings, such as those made of bread, raisins, rice, &c. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, 9cZ, Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. SAGO SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of sago, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Wash the sago in boiling water, add it, by degrees, to the boiling stock, and simmer till the sago is entirely dissolved, and forms a sort of jolly. Time.—Nearly an hour. Average cost, IM. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all tho year. iVo^e.—The yolks of 2 eggs, beaten up with a little cream, previously boiled, and added at tho moment of serving, much Improves this soup. SALAD, Boiled. Ingredients.—2 heads of celery, 1 pint of Irench beans, lettuce, and ondivo. Salad Dressing. Mode.—Boil the celery and beans se- parately until tender, and cut the celery into pieces about 2 inches long. Put these into a salad-bowl or dish pour over either of the salad dressings, and garnish the dish with a little lettuce finely chopped, blanched endive, or a few tufts of boiled cauliflower. This composition, if less agreeable than vegetables in their raw state, is morewholesome ; for salads, however they may be compounded, when eaten uncooked, prove to some people indigestible. Tarragon, chervil, burnet, and boiled onion, may be added to the above salad with advantage, as also slices of cold meat, poultry, or fish. Seasonable.—From July to October. SALAD DRESSmG (Excellent). Ingredients.—1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 table- spoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Put the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredients well toge- ther. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually/, or the sauce will ciu'dle. Put in the seasoning, when the mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is properly made, it will have a soft creamy appearance, and will be found very delicious with crab, or cold fried fish (the latter cut into dice), as well as with salads. In mixing salad dressings, the ingredients cannot be added" too gradualli/, or stirred too much. Average cost, for this quantity, Bd. Sufficient for a small salad. This recipe can be confidently recom- mended by the editress, to whom it was given by an intimate friend noted for her salads. SALAD DBESSING (Excellent). Ingredients.—eggs, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, \ teasjioonful of whito pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, vinegar. il/ocZe.—Boil tho eggs until hard, which will be in about ^ hour or 20 minutes; put them into cold water, tako off tho shells, and pound the yolks in a mortar to a smooth paste. Tlicn add all thp other ingredients, except tho vinegar, and filir Ihem well until