819 Soles, with. Cream Sauce till done, which will be in about 7 minutes. Take them up, drain them well on a cloth, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. (See Sauces.) Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOLES, with Cream Sauce. Ingredients. — 2 soles; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste ; the juice of i lemon, salt and water, | pint of cream. ilode.—Skin, wash, and fillet the soles, and divide each fillet in 2 pieces; lay them in cold salt and water, which bring gradually to a boil. When the water boils, take out the fish, lay it in a deli- cately clean stewpan, and cover with the cream. Add the seasoning, simmer very gently for ten minutes, and, just before serving, put in the lemon-juice. The fillets may be rolled, and secured by means of a skewer; but this is not so economical a way of dressing them, as double the quantity of cream is required. Tims.—10 minutes in the cream. Ave- rage cost, from Is. to 2s. per pair. Svffi- cienl for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. This will be found a most delicate and delicious dish. SOUFFLE, to make. Ingredients.—3 heaped tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, rice-flour, arrowroot, or tapioca, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, sifted sugar to taste, \ saltspoonful of salt flavouring. Mode.—Mix the potato-flour, or which- ever one of the above ingredients is used, with a little of the milk; put it into a saucepan, with the, remainder of the milk, the butter, salt, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Stir those ingredients over the fire until the mixture thickens ; then take it off the fire, and let it cool a little. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat the latter, and stir them into the Sdufll^ batter. Now whisk the whites of BOTjiFL^-PAw. the eggs to the firmest possible froth, for on this depends the excellence of the dish ; stir them to the other in- gredients, and add a few drops of essence of any flavourin/^ that may be preferred; Soups, General Directions foi? such as vanilla, lemon, orange, ginger, &c. &c. Pour the batter into a soufi3€- dish, put it immediately into the oven, and bake for about ^ hour; then take it out, put the dish into another more ornamental one, such as is made for the purpose; hold a salamander or hot shovel over the soufH€, strew it with sifted sugar, and send it instantly to table. The secret of making a soufilS well, is to have the eggs well whisked, but particularly the whites, the oven not too hot, and to send it to table the moment it comes from the oven. If the souffle be ever so well made, and it is allowed to stand before being sent to table, its appearance and goodness will be entirely spoiled. Souffles may be fla- voured in various ways, but must be named accordingly. Vanilla is one of the most delicate and recherche flavourings that can be used for this very fashionable dish. Time.—About ^ hour in the oven; 2 or 3 minutes to hold the salamander over. Average co.it, Is. Snfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. SOUPS, General Directions for Making. Lean, juicy Beef, Mutton, and Veal form the basis of all good soups ; therefore it is advisable to procure those pieces which afford the richest succu- lence, and such as are fresh-killed.' Stale meat renders soups bad, and fat is not well adapted for making them. The principal art in composing good rich soup is so to proportion the several ingredients that the flavour of one shall not predominate over another, and that all the articles of which it is composed shall form an agreeable whole. Care must be taken that the roots and herbs are perfectly well cleaned, and that the water is proportioned to the quantity of meat and other ingredients, allowing a quart of water to a pound of moat for soups, and half that quantity for gravies. In making soups or gravies, gentle stew- ing or simmering is absolutely necessary. It may be remarked, moreover, that a really good soup can never be made but in a well-closed vessel, although, perhaps, greater wholesomeness is obtained by an occasional exposure to the air. Soups will, in general, take from four to six hours doing, and are imich better i^repared the day before they are wanted. When the Bo'up is cold, the fat may be easily