THE DICTIONAUY OP COOKERY. 363 Vegetables, Cut for Soups, &c. them up into small pieces; toast the breart rather brown, and put all into a stewpan with the water and seasoning. Simmor gently for 3 hours, or until all is reduced to a pulp, and pass it through a sieve in the same way as poa-soup, which it should resemble in consistence ; but it should be a dark brown colour. "Warm it up again when required ; put in the Harvey's sauce, and, if necessarj^j add to the flavouring. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average cost, Id. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Suffi- cient for 16 persons. Note.—This recipe was forwarded to the Editress by a lady in the county of Durham, by whom it was strongly re- commended, VEGETABLES, Cut for Soups, Sc. The annexed engraving represents a cutter for shaping vegetables for soups, ragotits, stews, &c. ; carrots and turnips being the usual vegetables for which this utensil is used. Cut the vegetables into slices about \ inch in thick- ness, stamp them out with the cutter, and boil them for a few minutes in salt and water, until tender. Turnips should be cut in rather thicker slices than carrots, on account of the former boiling more quickly to a pulp than the latter. VENISON, Hashed. Ingredients. — The remains of roast venison, its own or mutton gravy, thickening of butter and flour. Mode. —Cut tlio meat from the bones in neat I'iccs, and, if there is sufficient of its iwn gravy left, ])ut the meat into this, .IS it is preferable to any other. Should there not be enough, put the bones and ti-iiiiniiiigs into a stewpan, with about a l int of mutton gravy ; let them stew onlly for an hour, and strain the gi-avy, J'ut a litile flour and butter into the stewpan, keep stirring until brown, then ad<l the strained gravy, and give it a boil up ; skim and strain again, and, when a little cool, put in the slices of venison. Place the stewpan by the side VBGETABLE-CUTTEE, Venison, Koast Haunch of of the fire, and, when on the point of simmering, serve: do not allow it to boil, or the meat will be hard. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time, —Altoguthcr, 1.3 hour. Seusonahle.— Buck venison, from June to Michaelmas; doe venison, from November to the end of January. Note.—A small quantity of Harvey's sance, ketchup, or port wine, may be added to enrich the gravy : these ingre- dients must, however, be used very spar- ingly, or they will ovei-power the flavour of the venison, VENISON", Eoast Haunch of. Ingredients. —Venison, coarse flour- and-water paste, a little (lour. Mode.— Choose a haunch with clear, bright, and thick fat, and the cleft of the hoof smooth and close ; the greater quantity of fat there is, the better quality will the meat be. As many people object to venison when it has too much haut goiit, ascer- tain how long it has been kept, bj' run- ning a sharp skewer into the meat close to the bone: when this is withdrawn, its sweetness can be judged of. With care and attention, it will keep good a fort- night, unless the weather is very mild. Keep it perfectly dry by wiping it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains, and sprinkle over pow- dered ginger or pepper, as a preventive against the fly. When required for use, EOAST HATJKCH OF VENISOIT, wash it in warm water, and dri/ it ircll with a cloth; butter a sheet of white paper, put it over the fat, lay a coarse paste, about ^ inch in thickness, over this, and then a sheet or two of strong paper. Tie the whole firmly on to the haunch with twine, and put tho joint down to a strong close firo; baste tho venison immediately, to prevent the paper and string from burning, and con- tinue this operation, without intermis- sion, tho whole of the time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before it is done, care- fully remove the paste and paper, dredgo tho joint with flour, and bast's well with