THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 60 Calf's-Feet Jelly but do not let it boil again. In sim- mering, the head or scum may bo care- fully removed as it rises ; but particular attention must bo given to the jelly, that it bo not stirred in the slightest degree after it is boated. The isinglass should be added when the jelly begins to boil: this assists to clear it, and makes it firmer for turning out. Wring out a jelly-bag in hot water; fasten it on to a stand, or the back of a chair ; place it near the fire with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through it. Should it not be perfectly clear the first time, repeat the process until the desired brilliancy is obtained. Soak the moulds JBLLT-MOTJLD. in water, drain them for half a second, pour in the jelly, and put it in a cool place to set. If ice is at hand, surround the moulds with it, and the jelly will set sooner, and be firmer when turned out. In summer it is necessary to havo ice in which to put the moulds, or the cook will be, very likely, disappointed, by her jellies being in too liquid a state to turn out properly, unless a great deal of isin- glass is used. Wlien wanted for table, dip tho moulds in hot water for a minute, wipe tho outside with a cloth, lay a dish on the top of the mould, turn it quickly over, and tho jelly should slip out easily. It is sometimes served broken into square lumps, and piled high in glasses. Earth- enware moulds aro preferable to those of pewter or tin for rod jellies, tho colour and transparency ot the composition being often spoiled by using the latter. To make this jelly more economically, raisin wine may bo substituted for tho sherry and brandy, and tho stock made from cow-heels, instead of calf's feet. j'iine,—20 minntos to simmer tho jolly, J '. our to stand covered. Average cost, Calf's Head, Boiled reckoning the feet at 6d. each, 5t. Gd. Sujficient to fill two l^-pint mouljs. Seasonable at any time. Note.—As lemon-juice, unless care- fully strained, is liable to make the jelly muddy, see that it is clear before it is added to the other ingredients. Omit the brandy when the flavour is objected to. CALF'S HEAD h la Maltre d'Hotel. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredknis. —rhe remains of a cold calf's head, rather more than h pint of maltra d'h6tel sauce. Mode.—Make the sauce by the given recipe, and have it sufii- ciently thick that it may nicely cover the meat; remove the bones from the head, and cut the meat into neat slices. When the sauce is ready, lay in the meat; gradually warm it through, and, after it boils up, let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes, and serve. Time. —Rather more than 1^ hour. Average i cost, exclusive of the meat, Is. 2d. Sea- ■ sondble from March to October. CALF'S HEAD, Boiled (with the Skin on). Ingredients. — Calf's head, boiling water, bread crumbs, 1 large bunch of : parsley, butter, white pepper and salt to ■ taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter,. 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, 2 or 3*! grains of cayenne. Mode.—Put the head ; into boiling water, and let it remain by the side of the fire ior 3 or 4 minutes; take it out, hold it by the car, and with tho back of a knife, scrape ofi" the hair (should it not come off easily, dip the head again into boiling water). When perfectly clean, take the eyes out, cut off the ears, and remove the brain, which soak for an hour in warm water. Put the head into hot water to soak for a few minutes, to make it look white, and then havo ready a stew]>an, into which lay tho head; cover it with cold water, and bring it gradually to boil. Remove tho scum, and add little salt, which assists to throw it u] Simmer it very gently from 2.^ to 3 hoi and when nearly done, boil the br; for \ hour; skin and chop them, n< too finely, and add a tablespoonful ol minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Season with pepper and salt, and stir tho brains, parsley, &c., into j about 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; » add tho lemon-juice and cayenne, ana t J