To Get the Breakfast Eeady. )f the cups ono withia the other on them, the two other cups one wiiliiu the in the slop-basin; the tablecloth and napkins are usually kept in the side- drawer. i. Having spread the cloth carefully, she should lay at eacli person's place a and small knife, a fork, and a largo and small plate ; the knives are to be at ight hand side of the large plates and close to them, the forks at the left and too, the small egg-platea next to the forks ; the cups and saucers should be d together before the mistress's place, the teapot, or coffee-urn, stand behind , and the slop-basin next to it, the milk-jug and sugar-basin on the other the small carving-knife and fork should be put with his own knife and fork master's place, and a mat before it for the hot dish, the tablespoon, placed ihways, in front of that j the teaspoons should be put each in one of the irs, the egg-spoons each on one of the small plates, and the napkins each on f the large plates; the cruet-stand in the centre of the table, one of the salt- at the right hand top corner, the other at the right hand bottom corner table ; the dessert-spoon placed on the plate with the marmalade, which e taken from the cellaret; the butter-knife laid close to the butter-dish, the knife in the bread-platter, the large carving-knife and fork on the side- I5. This being done, she will bring up the cold meat, having first put it on a 1 dish, and place it on the sideboard ; bring up the bread in the bread-basket the bread-platter, which should be clean and white, and place it at the side table and the butter in the butter-dish, where the mistress will put the l-basin when she takes it from the cellaret. Should there be a portion of a ||f bread cut the day before, that should be brought up ; but unless it be more balf a loaf, an entire one should be brought up also. About a quarter of a , of butter will be sufficient, and half a pint of milk. G. She will then go to the kitchen to— GET THE BREAKFAST READY. The kettle being boiling, sho will move it a little to the side—still keeping ling—to make room for the pan or gridiron. Having put down the rashers of 1, or whatever other meat is to be cooked for breakfast, and put a dish and >late3 into the oven to warm, she may, while attending to the meat, make, of the family require it, two or three rounds of thin toast, which, as soon as me is fini.-lied, should be placed in the toa3t-^ack. The meat being cooked, kild be put on the hot dish, and covered close to keep warm. :l The miatress will then be down to take out the tea and sugar from the Jjf, and the soi-vant having brought down the tea, will make it, first rin.sing apot with boiling water. b