273 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Delhi the eggs, to the other ingi-edieots, and pour the mixture into little deep saucers jast before putting into the oven. Bake about h an hour. When they are taken out, a very thin layer of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each, and they should be piled one above another, A little whipped cream placed here and there on the pudding as a garnish would be found to improve the appearance of this dish. Time.—About ^ an hour. Average cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Delhi. Ingredients.—4 large apples, a little Ifrated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar, 6 oz. of currants, ^ lb. of suet crust. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices; put them into a saucepan with the nutmeg, lemon-peel, md sugar, stew them over the fire till soft; then have ready the above quantity Df crust, roll it out thin, spread the ipples over the paste, sprinkle over the currants, roll the pudding up, closing Lhe ends properly, tie it in a floured jloth, and boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 tiours. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 3r 6 persons. Seasonable.—August to March. PUDDING, Empress. Ingredients.—\ lb. of rice, 2 oz. of Dutter, 3 eggs, jam, sufficient milk to soften the rice. Mode.—Boil the rice n the milk until very solt; then add ihe butter, boil it for a few minutes xfter the latter ingredient is put in, and sot it by to cool. Well beat the eggs, itir these in, and line a dish with puff- paste ; put over this a layer of rice, then 1 thin layer of any kind of jam, then mother layer of rice, and proceed in this nanner until the dish is full; and bake n a moderate oven for ^ hour. This Dudding may be eaten hot or cold; if ho latter, it will be much improved by Slaving a boiled custard poured over it. 7'm«.—I hour. Average cost. Is. Suffi- rientlorQ or 7 persons. Seasonahie'a.t my time. PUDDING-, Exeter (Very Bich). Ingredients. —10 oz. of bread-crumbs, t oz. of sago, 7 oz. of finely-chopped JUGt, C oz. of moist sugar, the rind of Pudding, German ^ lemon, | pint of rum, 7 eggs, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, 4 small sponge-cakes, 2 oz. of ratafias, h lb. of jam. Mode.— Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sago, suet, sugar, minced lemon- peel, rum, and 4 eggs ; stir these ingre- dients well together, then add 3 more eggs and the cream, and let the mixture be well beaten. Then butter a mould, strew in a few bread-crumbs, and cover the bottom with a layer of ratafias; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of sliced sponge - cake spread thickly with any kind of jam ; then add some ratafias, then some of the mixture and sponge-cake, and so on until the mould is full, taking care that a layer of the mixture is on the top of the pudding. Bake in a good oven from f to 1 hour, and serve with the following sauce :— Put 3 tablespoonfuls of black-currant jelly into a stewpan, add 2 glasses of sherry, and when warm, turn the pud- ding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it and serve hot. Time.—From 1 to 1^ hour. Average cost, 2s. Qd. Suffi- cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING-PIES, Folkestone. Ingredients,—1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of ground rice, 3 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, flavouring of lemon-peel or bay- leaf, 6 eggs, puflf-paste, currants. Mode. —Infuse 2 laurel or bay leaves, or the rind of h lemon in the milk, and whei. it is well flavoured, strain it, and add the rice ; boil these for \ hour, stirring all the time ; then take them off the fir*, i«rtf in the butter, sugar, and eggs, and let these latter be well beaten before they are added to the other ingre- dients ; when nearly cold, line some patty-pans with puff-paste, fill with the custard, strew over each a few currants, and bake from 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven. _ Tme.—20 to 25 mi- nutes. Average cost, Is. Id. Sufficient to fill a dozen patty-pans. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, German. Ingredients.—2 toaspoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, the rind of h lemon, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Boil the milk with the lemon-rind until well flavoured ; theij strain it, and mix with it tbo flour, ar-