225 <« - r I '» Orange Marmalade the orange- and lemon-juice should be well strained, and the isinglass clarified, before they are added to the other ingre- dients, and, to heighten the colour, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added. Time.—5 minutes to boil with- out the juice; 1 minute after it is added. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. Sii. Svficient to iill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. OEANGE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fine loaf gugar and Seville oranges ; to 12 oranges allow 1 pint of water. Mode.—Let there DO an equal weight of loaf sugar and Seville oranges, and allow the above proportion of water to every dozen oranges. Peel them carefully, remove a little of the white pith, and boil the rinds In water 2 hours, changing the water three times to take off a little of tho .bitter taste. Break the pulp into small pieces, take out all the pips, and cut the boiled rind into chips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water; boil this well, skim it, and, when clear, put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from 20 minutes to i hour; pour it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with blad- ders or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. The juice and grated rind of 2 lemons to every dozen of oranges, added with the pulp and chijis to the syrup, aro a very great improvement to this marmalade. Time.—I hours to boil the orange-rinds; 10 minutes to boil tho syi'up ; 20 minutes to h hour to boil the marmahide. Average cost, from (id. to Sd. per lb. pot. Season- able.—This should be made in March or Ajiril, as Seville oranges aro then in perfection. lOBANGE MABMAIiADE. Ingredients.—Equal weight of Seville oranges and sugar ; to every lb. of sugar '!ow h pint of water, jifoile.—Weigh : sugar and oranges, scoro the skin ')ss, and take it off in quarters. Boil -c quarters in a muslin bag in water il they aro quite soft, and tlioy can [.ierced easily with tho head of a pin ; then cut them into chips about 1 inch I fic, and as thin as possible. Should !0 be a great deal of white stringy ) Jj), remove it before cutting the rind < into chips. Split open the oranges, f i. I Orange Marmalade scrape out the best part of the pulp, with the juice, rejecting the white pith and pips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water ; boil it until clear; then put in the chips, pulp, and juice, and boil the marmalade from 20 minutes to ?, houi', removing all the scum as it rises. In boiling the syrup, clear it carefully from scum before the oranges are added to it. Time.—2 hours to boil the rinds, 10 K.inates the synip, 20 minutes to h hour the marmalade. Average cost, 6d. to Sd. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in March or April, when Seville oranges are in perfection. ORANGE MARMALADE, an easy way of Making. Ingredients.—To every lb, of pulp allow Ig lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.— Choose "some fine Seville oranges ; put them whole into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew them until they become perfectly tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times ; drain them, take off the lind, remove the pips from the pulp, weigh it, and to every lb. allow In of loaf sugar and h pint of the water the oranges were last boiled in. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 mi- nutes ; put in the p\i\p, boil for another 10 minutes ; then add the peel cut into strips, and boil the marmalade for another 10 minutes, which completes the process. Pour it into jars ; let it cool; then cover down with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time.—2 hours to boil tho oranges ; altogether h hour to boil the marmalade. Average cost, from G(^. to 8d. per lb. pot. Seasonable.— Make this in March or April. ORAISTGE MARMALADE, made with. Honey. Ingredients.—To 1 quart of the juice and pulp of Seville oranges allow 1 lb. of tho rind, 2 lbs. of honey. Mode.—Peel the oranges, and boil the rind in water until tender, and cut it into strips. Tiike away the pips from the juice and pulp, and put it with the honey and chips into a preserving-pan ; boil aU together for about j hour, or until the marmalade is of the proper consistency ; put it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with bladders. T'iJHC.—2 hours lo boil tho rind, hour the marmalade. 8