THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 131 Fowl, Hashed ■rhs, thickening of butter and flour, tahlespooiiful of mushroom ketchujx o(/g._Cut otr the best joints from the iv\, and the remainder make into gravy, adding to the bones and ti iinmings a it of w-rtter, an onion sliced and fried a nice brown, the carrot:^, mace, sea- linsr, and herbs. Let these stew gently 1 i hour, strain the liquor, and thicken .ha Utile Hour and butter. Lay in the thoroughly warm it through, add ketchup, and garnish with sippets of sted bread. rtme.—Altogether lur. Avenifje cost, exclusive of the cold jvl, id. Seasonable at any time. )'WTi, Hashecl, Indian PasMon (an Entree). Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast fowl, r 4 sliced onions, 1 applo, 2 oz. of ter, pounded mace, pepper and salt tasto, 1 tablespoonful of cixrry- der, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 espoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of nided sugar, 1 pint of gravy. Mode. *'ut the onions into slices, mince apple, and fry these in the butter; il pounded maco, pepper, salt, curry- der, vinegar, flour, and sugar in the vo proportions; when the onion is wn, put in the gravy, which should be viously made from the bones and mings of the fowls, and stew for ^ r; add the fowl cut into nice-sized ts, let it warm through, and when e tcniler, servo. The dish should be nished with an edging of boiled I'ice. le.—1 hoar. Average cost, exclusive he fowl, Sd. Seasonable at any time. ^WIj, an Indian Dish of (an Jntr§e). Cold Meat CooKEnT.] Ingredients. \ho remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4 3d onions, 1 tablespoonful of cnrry- [rder, salt to taste. Mode.—Divide fowl into joints; slice and fry the ■)ns in a little butter, taking care not t>urn them ; sprinkle over the fowl a le curry-powder and salt; fry these ply, pile them hijrh in the centre of [dish, cover with the onion, and serve a cut lemon on a plate. Care must taken thiit tho onions are not greasy : should be quite dry, but not burnt. —5 minutes to fry the onions, 10 itos to fry tho fowl, Avei-'i^^ cost, Fowl, Minced exclusive of the fowl, id. Seasonable during the winter months. FOWL h la Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—A cold roast fowl, Mayon- naise sauce, 4 or 5 young lettuces, 4 hard- boiled eggs, a few water-cresses, endive. 3fode.—Cut the fowl into neat joints, lay them in a deep dish, piling them high in the centre, sauce the fowl with Mayon- naise, and garnish the dish with young lettuces cut in halves, water-cresses, en- dive, and hard-boiled eegs: these may be sliced in rings, or laid on the dish whole, cutting off at the bottom a piece of the white, to make the egg stand. All kinds of cold meat and solid fish may be dressed la Mayonnaise, and malce excellent luncheon or supper dishes. The sauce should not be poured over the fowls until the moment of serving. Should a very large Mayonnaise be required, use 2 fowls instead of one, with an equal propi)rtion of the remaining ingredients. A veruge cost, with one fowl, 3s. Gd. »S'm/- ,^fte)i« for a moderate-sized dish. Season- 'able from April to September. FOWL, Minced (an Entree). [C01.D Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 hard- boiled oggs, salt, cayenne, and pounded maco, 1 onion, 1 f.iggot of savoury herbs, 6 tabU'spoonfuls of cream, 1 oz. of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour, h teasi^oonful of fincly-minced lemon-peel, 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—Cut out from tho fowl all the white moat, and mince it finely without any skin or bone ; put the bones, skin, and trimmings into a stewpan with an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, a blade of mace, and nearly a pint of water ; let this stew for an hour, then sti-aiu the liquor. Chop the eggs small; mix them with the fowl; add salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, put in the gravy and remaining ingre- dients ; let the whole just boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.— Kather more than 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, %d. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Another way to make this is to mince tho fowl, and warm it in white sauce or Bechamel. When dressed like this, 3 or 4 poached eggs may bo placed on the top: oysters, or chopped mush- rooms, or balls of oyster forcemeat, may be laid round ♦Jie dish.