78 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chicken Salad 1 teaspoonful of poundod mace, h small nutmeg. Mode.—Strip the meat from the bones of cold roast fowl; when it is freed from gristle and skin, weigh it, and to every lb. of meat allow the above pro- portion of butter, seasoning, and spices. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound it "woll with the fresh butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep pounding until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Put it into potting-pots for use, and cover it with clarified butter, about | inch in thickness, and, if to be kept for some time, tie over a bladder : 2 or 3 slices of ham, minced and pounded with the above ingredients, will bo found an improve- ment. It should be kept in a dry place. Seasonable at any time. CHICKE]Sr (or Fowl) SALAD. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled chicken, 2 lettuces, a little en- dive, 1 cucumber, a few slices of boiled beetroot, salad-dressing. Mode.—Trim neatly the remains of the chicken; wash, dry, and slice the lettuces, and place in the middle of a dish ; put tha pieces of fowl on the top, and pour the salad- dressing over them. Garnish the edge of the salad with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, sliced cucumber, and boiled beet- root cu*, in slices. Instead of cutting the eggs in rings, the yolks may be rubbed through a hair sieve, and the whites chopped very finely, and arranged on the salad in small bunches, yellow and white alternately. This should not be made long before it is wanted for table. A ver- age cost, exclusive of the cold chicken, 8d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. CHILI VIWEGAB. Ingredients.—50 fresh red English chi- lics, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Pound or cut the chilics in half, and infuse them in the vinegar for a fortnight, when it ■will be fit for use. This will be found an agreeable relish to fish, as many people cannot eat it without the addition of an acid and cayenne pepper. CHIWA CHILD. Ingredients.—l)i lb. of leg, loin, or neck of mutton, 2 onions, 2 lettuces, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, \ pint of water, \ lb. of clarified butter; when liked, a little Chocolate Cream cayenne. Mode.—Mince the above quan- tity of undressed leg, loin, or neck of mutton, adding a little of the fat, also minced ; put it into a stowpan with the remaining ingredients, previously shred- ding the lettuce and onion rather fine ; closely cover the stewpan, after the ingre- dients have been well stirred, and sim • mer gently for rather more than two hours. Serve in a dish, with a border of rice round, the same as for curry. Time, —Rather more than two hours. A verage cost, Is. Gd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June to August, CHOCOLATE, to Make, Ingredients.—Allow J oz. of chocolate to each person ; to every oz. allow ^ pint of water, ^ pint of milk. Mode.— Make the milk-and-water hot; scrape the chocolate into it, and stir the mixture constantly and quickly until the chocolate is dis- solved; bring it to the boiling- point, stir it well, and serve di- rectly with white sugar. Choco- late prepared within a mill, as shown in the engraving, is made by putting in the scraped choco- late, pouring over it the boiling milk-and-water, and milling it ovei- the fire until hot and frothy, mili,. Sufficient.—Allow i oz. of cake chocolate to each person. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated chocolate, \ lb. of sugar, 1^ pint of cream, Ik oz. of clarified isinglass, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Boat the yolks of the eggs well, put them into a basin with the grated 0BBA.U-M0ULD. chocolate, the sugar, and 1 pint of the cream ; stir those ingredients well toge- ther, pour them into a jug, and set this jug in a saucepan of boiling water ; stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not alloxo it to boil, or it will