THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 3S Beef Marrowbones, Boiled MABEOW-BONES. Abutter, ^ pint of boiling water, pepper M salt, a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, tda tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, bt the gravy just boil up, pour over the [(iney, and serve. IEEF MARKOWBOTiTES, BoUed. lilngredienis.—Bones, a small piece of Immon paste, a floured cloth. Mode.— j,ve the bones neatly sawed into con- Inient sizes, and cover the ends with a small piece of common crust, made with floiu" and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place them Irlght in a saucepan of boiling water, " ig care there is sufficient to cover 1 bones. Boil the bones for 2 hours, lOve the cloth and paste, and serve , upright on a napkin with dry toast, 'iny persons clear the marrow from the les after they are cooked, spread it er a slice of toast, and add a seasoning Ipepper ; when served in this manner, Imust be very expeditiously sent to ole, as it so soon gets cold. Time.— liours. Seasonable at any time. I ^o<e.—Marrow-bones may be baked .er preparing them as in the preceding po; they should be laid in a deep and baked for 2 hours. 3EF, Minced. Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. [ oz. of butter, 1 small onion, 12 table- )onfuls of gravy left from the meat, tablespoonful of strong ale, 1 tea- bonful of flour, salt and pepper to te, a few slices of lean roast beef. ode.—Put into a stewpan the butter :h an onion chopped fine; add the ivy, ale, and a teaspoonful of flour to (cken ; season with pepper and salt, d stir these ingredients over the fire jtilthe onion is a rich brown. Cut (but 'not chop) thoraea,t very fine, add it to b gravy, stir till quite hot, and serve. Imish with sippets of toasted bread. J careful in not allowing the gravy to after the moat is added, as it would i^der it hard and tough. Time.—About ^Bour. Average cost, exclusive of the iKit, id. Seasonable at any time. Beef Olives BEEP, Mii3.ced Collops of (an Entree). Ingredients.—1 lb. of rump-steak, salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 1 onion minced, | pint of water, 1 table- spoonful of Harvey's sauce, or lemon- juice, or mushroom ketchup; 1 small bunch of savoury herbs. Mode.—Mince the beef and onion very small, and fry the latter in butter until of a pale brown. Put aU the ingredients together in a stewpan, and boil gently for about 10 minutes; garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve very hot. Time. — 10 minutes. Average cost. Is. per lb. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Miroton of. [Cold Meat Cookert.] Ingredients. —A few shoes of cold roast beet, 3 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 3 onions, I pint of gravy. il/ocZe.—Slice the onions and put them into the frying-pan with, the cold beef and butter; place it over the fire, and keep turning and stirring the ingredients to prevent them burning. When a pale brown, add the gravy and seasoning; letit simmer for a few minutes, and serve very hot. The dish is excellent and economical. Time. — 5 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients. — 2 lbs. of rump-steak, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of stock, 2 or 3 slices of bacon, 2 table- spoonfuls of any kind of store sauce, a slight thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thin, beat them to make them level, cut them into 6 or 7 pieces, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with herbs, which should be very finely minced ; season with pepper and salt, roll up the pieces tightly, and fasten with a small skewer. Put the stock in a stewpan that will exactly hold the in- gredients, for, by being pressed together, they will keep their shape bettor; lay in the roUs of meat, cover them with the bacon, cut in thin sUces, and over that put a piece of paper. Stow them very gently for full 2 hours; for the slower they are done the better. Take tbcm out, remove the skewers, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and flavour