86S THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEHT. White Sauco, mado without Moat WHITE SAUCE, Made without Meat. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 2 small onions, 1 carrot, i a small toacupful of flour, 1 pint of new milk, sal t and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Gut up the onions and carrot very small, and put them into a Btowpan with the butter; simmer them till tho butter is nearly dried up; then stir in tho flour, and add tho milk ; boil tho whole gently until it thickens, strain it, season with salt and cayenne, and it will bo ready to serve. Time.—.j hour. Average cost, 5d. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any timo. WHITE SAUCE (a very Simple and Inexpensive Method). Ingredients.—pint of milk, Ih oz. of rice, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 small blade of pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. 3Iode.—Boi\ the milk with the lemon-peel and rice until the latter is perfectly tender, then take out the lemon- peel and pound the milk and rice to- gether ; put it back into the stewpan to warm, add the mace and seasoning, give it one boil, and serve. This sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream. Time.—About 1^, hour to boil the rice. Average cost, id. Sufficient for a pair of fowls. Seasonable at any time. WHITING, Boiled. Ingredients. — ^ lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse tho fish, but do not skin them ; lay them in a fish- kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover them, and salt in the above proportion. Bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for about 5 minutes, or rather more should the fish be very large. Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Serve with an- chovy or caper sauce, and plain melted butter. Time.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. Average cost for small whit- ings, 4cZ. each. Seasonable all tho j'car, but best from October to March. Suffi- cient.—1 small whiting for each person. To Choose Whiting.—Choose for tho firmness of its flesh, and the silveiy hue of its appearance. WHITING, Broiled. Inr/i-edients.—^aXt and water; flour. Mode,—Wash tho whiting in salt and Whiting au Gratin water, wipe them thoroughly, and lot them remain in tho cloth to ab.sorb all moisture. Flour them well, au.l broil over a very clear fire. Servo with muilre (ChClel sauce, or plain melted butter (see Sauces), lie careful to preserve the liver, as by some it is considered very delicate. Time.—5 minutes for a small whiting. Average cost, id. c^ich. Season- able all tho year, but best from October to March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting for each person. WHITING, &c. Whiting, pike, haddock, and other fish, when of a sufficiently largo size, may bo carved in the same manner as salmou. When small, they may be cut through, bono and all, and helped in nice pieces, a middling-sized whiting serving for two shces. WHITING, Fried. Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour, hot lard, or clarified drip- ping. Mode.—Take off the skin, clean, and thoroughly wipe the ftsh free from all moisture, as this is most essential, in order that the egg and bread-crumbs may properly adhere. Fasten the tail in the mouth by means of a small skewer, brush the fish over with egg, dredge with a little flour, and cover with bread- crumbs. Fry them in hot lard or clari- fied dripping of a nice colour, and servo them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. Time.— About G minutes. Average cost, id. each. Seasonable all tho year, but best from October to March. Sufficient.—1 small whiting for each i^erson. Jfote.—Large whitings may be filleted, rolled, and served as fried filleted soles. Small fried whitings are frequently used for garnishing largo boiled fish, such as turbot, cod, &c. WHITING AU GRATIN, or BAKED WHITING. Ingredients. — 4 whiting, butter. 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, a few chopped mushrooms when obtainable ; pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste , butter, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, bread-crumbs. J/otfe.—Grease the bot- tom of a baking-dish with butter, and