84 THE t)ICTIOJlAllY 01? COOKERl?. Coffee, to Roast COFFEE, to Eoast. (A Fsench Kecipe.) It being an acknowledged fact that French coffee is decidedly superior to that made in England, and as the roast- ing of the berry is of great importance to the flavour of the prepai-ation, it will be useful and interesting to know how they manage these things in Franco. In Paris, there are two houses justly cele- brated for the flavour of their coffee,— La Maison Corcellet and La Maison Royer de Ckarires; and to obtain this flavour, before roasting, they add to every 3 lbs. of coffee a piece of butter the size of a nut, and a dessertspoonful of pow- dered, sugar: it is then roasted in the usual manner. The addition of the but- ter and sugar develops the flavour and aroma of the bei-ry ; but it must be borne in mind, that the quality of the butter must bo of the very best description. COLLOPS, Scotch. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast veal, a little butter, flour, \ pint of water, 1 onion, 1 blade of pouncled mace, 1 tableppoonful of lemon-juice, h teaspoonful of finely- minccd lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonfnl of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the veal the same thickness as for cutlets, rather larger than a crown piece ; flour the meat well, and fry a light brown in butter; dredge again with flour, and add I pint of water, pouring it in by degrees; set it on the lire, and when it boils, add the onion and mace, and let it sinmicr very gently about 4 hour; flavour the gravy with lemon- juice, peel, wine, and ketchup, in the above proportion ; give one boil, and servo. Tims.—^ hour. Seasonable from March to October. COLLOPS, Scotch, White. [Cold Meat Cookeuy.] Ingredients. The remains of cold roast veal, h tea- spoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pouudcd mace, cayenne and salt to taste, a little butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, J pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, \ teaspoonful of lemon-peel, 1 table- Bpoonful of mushroom ketchup, 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of Bherry. Mode.—Qwt the veal into thin slices about 3 inches in width ; hack them Confectionary with a knife, and grate on them the nut- meg, mace, cayenne, and salt, and fry them in a little butter. Dish them, and make a gravy in the pan by putting in the remaining ingredients. Give one boil, and pour it over the collops ; g.ir- nish with lemon and bHccs of toasted bacon, rolled. Forcemeat balls may bo added to this dish. If cream is not at hand, substitute the yolk of an egg beaten up well with a little milk. Time.—About 5 or 7 minutes. Seasonable from May to October. COMPOTE, A confituro made at the moment of need, and with much less sugar than would be ordinaiily put to preserves. They are very wholesome things, suit- able to most stomachs which cannot ac- commodate themselves to raw fruit or a large portion of sugar: they are the happy medium, and far better than ordi- nary stewed fruit. For Fruit CompCtes refer to the recipes relating to th.e various Fi-uits. COISTFECTIONAEIT. In speaking of confectionary, it should be remarked that many preparations come under that head ; for the various fruits, flowers, herbs, roots, and juices, which, when boiled with sugar, were for- merly emploj'ed in pharmacy as well as for sweetmeat.'', were called confections, from the Latin word conjlcere, ' to make up;' but the term confectionary embraces a very large class indeed of sweet food, many kinds of which should not bo at- tempted in the ordinary cui?ina Tiio thousand and one ornamental dishes that adorn the tables of the wc.ilthy should bo purchased from the confectioner: they cannot profitably be made at homo. Apart from these, cakes, biscuits, and tarts, &c., the class of sweetmeats called confections may be thus classified:— 1. Liquid confects, or fruits either whole or in pieces, preserved hy being im- mersed in a fluid transparent syrup ; as tho liquid confects of apricots, green citrons, and many foreign fruits. 2. Dry confects arc those which, after having been boiled in tho syrup, are taken out and put to dry in an oven, as citron and orange-peel, &c. 3. Marmalade, jams, and p.astes, a kind of soft compounds made of the pulp of fruits or other vcgc. table substances, beat up with sugar or