TilE DiCTlONARt OP COOICEH?. 237 Paste, Common, for Family Pies point of boiling, serve, and garnish the Tlisn with croCltons. The remains of lonst partridge answer very well dressed in this way, although rot so good as when the birds are in the hrst instance only half-roasted. This i-ecipe is equally suitable for pbeasants, moorgame, &c. ; but care must be taken always to skin tho joints. Timr..—Altogether 1 hour. iSiffficient. — 2 or 3 partridges for an entree. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginningof February. PASTB, Common, tor Family Pies. Ingredients.—\i lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, rather more than ^ pint of water. Mode.—Rub the butter Tightly into the flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with the water ; roll it out 2 or 3 times, and it will be ready for use. This paste may be converted into an excellent short crust for sweet tart by adding to the Hour, after the butter is rubbed in, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine-sifted sugar. Ave- rage cost, M. per lb. PASTE, Puff, French,' or Feuille- tage (Founded on M. Ude's Becipe). Ingredients.—Equal quantities of flour and butter—say 1 lb. of each ; ^ salt- spoonful of salt, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than \ pint of water. Mode. —Weigh the flour; ascertain that it is perfectly dry, and sift it; squeeze all the water from the butter, and wring it in a clean cloth till there is no moisture re- maining. Put the flour on the paste- board, work lightly into it 2 oz. of the butter, and then make a hole in the centre ; into this well put the yolks of 2 eggs, the salt, and about ^ pint of water (the quantity of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the cook, as it is impossible to give the exact proportion of it); knead up the paste quickly and lightly, and, when quite smooth, roll it out square to the thickness of about h inch. Presuming that the butter is per" fectly free from moisture, and as cool as ossible, roll it into a ball, and place this alLof butter on the paste ; fold the pasts' ever tho butter all round, and secure it by wrapping it well all over. Flatten the paste by rolling it lightly with tho rolling-pin until it is quite thin, but not thin enough to allow tho butter to break through, and keep the board Paste, Pull, very Good and paste dredged lightly with flour during the process of making it. This rolling gives it the yirsi turn. Now fold the paste in three, and roll out again, and, should the weather be very warm, put it in a cold place on tho ground to ccol between the several turns; for, unless this is particularly attended to, the paste will be spoiled. Roll out the paste again twice, put it by to cool, then roll it out <?»!'ce more, which will make 6 turnings in all. Now fold the paste in two, and it will bo ready for use. If propei-ly baked and well made, this crust will be delicious, and should rise in tha oven about 5 or 6 inches. The paste should be made rather firm in the first instance, as the ball of butter is liable to break through. Great attention must also be paid to keeping the butter very cool, as, if this is in a liquid and soft state, the paste will not answer at all. Should the cook be dexterous enough to succeed in making this, the paste will have a much better appearance tban that made by the process of dividing the butter into 4 parts, and placing it over the rolled-out paste; but until experience has been acquired, we recommend puff-paste made by recipe. Tho above paste is used for vols-au-vent, small articles of pastry, and, in iact, everything that requires very light crust. Average cost, Is. 6d. per lb. PASTE, PufF, very Good. Ingredients. —To every lb. of flour allow 1 lb. of butter, and not quite h pint of water. Mode.—Carefully weigh the Hour and butter, and have the exact proportion ; squeeze the butter well, to extract the water from it, and afterwards wring it in a clean cloth, that no moisture may remain. Sift the flour ; sec that it is perfectly dry, and proceed in tho following manner to make the paste, usinga very cZeawpaste-board and rolling- pin :—Supposing the quantity to be 1 lb. of flour, work the whole into a smooth paste with not quite A pint of water, using a knife to mix it with : the propor- tion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the discretion of the cook ; if too much be added, tho paste, when baked, will be tough. Roll -it out until it is of an equal thickness of about an inch ; break 4 oz. of the butter into small pieces ; plaio these on the paste, sift over it a little flour, fold it over, roll out again.