261 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Poik, Eoast Leg of BOASI LBS OF POEZ. as a garnish. A well-made peaso- pudding is an indispensable accompani- ment. A leg of pork weighing B lbs., 3 hours after the water boils, and to be simmered very gently. Avenuje cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. jYote.—The liquor in wbich a leg of pork has been boiled makes excellent pea-soup. POBK, Roast Leg of. Ingredients. — Leg of pork, a little, oil, sago and onion stuffing. Mode.— Choose a small leg of pork, and tcoro the skin across in narrow strips, about ^ inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with a sage- and-onion 8 t u fB n g . Brush the joint over with a little salad- oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and a better colour), and put it down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, and servo with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and do not omit to send to table with it a tureen of well-made apple sauce. Time.—A leg of pork weighing 8'lbs., about 3 hours. Average cost, 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. PORK, Leg of, to Carve. This joint, which is such a favourite ono with many people, is easy to carve. The knife should be car- ried sharply down to the bone, clean through the crackling, in the direction of the line 1 to 2. Sago and onion and apple sauce are usually sent to table with this dish,—sometimes the leg of pork is stuffed,—and the guests should bo asked if they will have either or both. A frequent plan, and we lliink a good one, is now pursued, of Pork, to Pickle I,EO OT POBK. sending sago and onion to table sepa- rately from the joint, as it is not every- body to whom the flavour of this stufBnjj is ngreeable. Note.—The other dishes of pork do rot call for any special remai'ks as to their carving or helping. PORK, Roast Loin of. Ingredients.—Pork; a little salt. Mode.—Score the skin in strips rather more than \ inch aj^art, and place the joint at a good distance fi-om the fire, on FOEB LOIN or POEK. account of the crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over witli Eiin> Lonr oi' pobe. a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. Pork should be vei-y thoroughly cooked, but not dry; and be careful never to send it to table the least underdone, as nothing is more unwholesome and disagreeable than under-dressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce and a Httle gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish: this method is better than putting it in the meat, as many persons have so great an objection to the flavour. Time.—A loin of pork weighing 5 lbs., about 2 hours : allow more time should it be very fat. A verage cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. PORK, to Pickle. Ingredients.—^ lb. of saltpetre ; salt. Mode.— As pork does not keep long without being salted, cut it into pieces of a suitable size as soon as the pig is cold, Eub the pieces of pork well with salt, and put them into a pan with a sprinkling of it between each piece: oa