THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 36 Beef Olives with any store sauce that may bo pre- ferred. Give one boil, pom- over the meat, and soi-vo. Time.—2 hours. Aver- age cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time, BEEF OLIVES (Economical). [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The i-emains of underdone cold roast beef, bread crumbs, 1 shalot finely minced, pepper and salt to taste, gravy made from the beef bones, thicken- ing of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut Bome slices of underdone roast beef about half an inch thick; sprinkle over them some bread crumbs, minced shalot, and a little of the fab and seasoning; roll them, and fasten with a small skewer. Have ready some gravy made from the beef bones ; put in the pieces of meat, and stew them tiU tender, which will be in about I5 hour, or rather longer. Ar- range the meat in a dish, thicken and flavour the gravy, and pour it over the meat, when it is ready to serve. Time.— labour. Average cost, exclusive of the beef, '2d. Seasonable at any time. BEEF PALATES, to Dress (an Entree). Ingredients. — 4 palates, sufficient gravy to cover them, cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of pickled-onion liquor, thickening of butter and flour. Mode. — Wash tho palates, and put them into a stewpan, with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil until per- fectly tender, or until the upper skin may be easily peeled off. Have ready sufficient gravy to cover them ; add a good seasoning of cayenne, and thicken with a little butter kneaded with flour ; let it boil up, and skim. Cut the palates into square pieces, put them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently for I hour; add ketchup and onion- •jquor, give one boil, and servo. Time.— From 3 to 5 hours to boil tho palates. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seaaonalle at »ny time. _^ote.—Palates may bo dressed in va- rious ways with good onion sauce, tomato sauce, &c., &c., and may also bo served in a vol-azt-venl; but tho above will be found a moro simple method of dressing them. Beef, Potted BEEF PICKLE, (This may also bo used for any kind of Meat, Tongues, or Hams.) Ingredients.— C lbs. of salt, 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 3 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 3 gallons of spring water. Mode.—Boil all the ingredients gently together, so long as any scum or impurity arises, which carefully remove ; when quite cold, pour it over the meat, every part of which must be covered with the brine. This may be used for pickling any kind of meat, and may be kept for some time, if boiled up occasionally with an addiiion of the ingredients. Time.—A ham should be kejot in pickle for a fortnight; a piece of beef weighing 141bs., 12 or 15 days ; a tongue, 10 days or a fortnight. Note.—For salting and pickling meat, it is a good plan to rub in only half the quantity of salt directed, and to let it remain for a day or two to disgorge and effectually to get rid of the blood and slime ; then rub in the remainder of tho salt and other ingredients, and proceed Wi above. This mle may bo applie l to all recipes for salting and pickling n. ' BEEP, Potted. [Cold Meat Cookery. 1.] Ingred^' —'2 lbs. of lean beef, 1 tablespoonfui 0; water, ^ lb. of butter, a seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and black i^epper. Mode.—Procure a » nice piece of lean beef, as free as possible from giistle, skin, &c., and put it into a jar (if athand,ono with a lid) with 1 tablespoon- ful of water. JAB POn rOTTED MEATS. Cover it closely, and put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, letting tliO water come within 2 inches of tho top of tho jar. Boil gently for 3.J hours, thon take the beef, chop it very small with a choppiug-knife, and pound it thoroughly in a mortar. Mix with it by degrees al^ . or a portion, of the gravy that will have run from it, and a little clarified butter; add the seasoning, put it in small pots for use, and cover with a little buttor just warmed and poured over. If nuioh gravy is added to it, it will keep but a short time; on tho contrary, if a large