11 rHE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY, Apples, to preserve garnish the tops of the apples with a bright-coloured marmalade, jellj', or the white of an egg beaten to a strong froth, with a little silted sugar. Time.—From 30 to 50 minutes to bake the apples. Average cost, Is., with the garnishing. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable fi'om August to March, APPLES, to preserve, in Quarters (in imitation of Ginger). Ingredieiits.—To every lb. of apples allow f lb. of sugar, oz. of the best white ginger ; 1 oz. of ginger to every ^ pint of water. Mode.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples, and put the fruit, sugar, and ginger in laj^ers into a wide- mouthed jar, and let them remain for 2 . days ; then infuse 1 oz. of ginger in g pint of boiling water, and cover it closely^ and let it remain for 1 day: this quantity of ginger and water is for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion. Put the apples, &c., into a preserving- pan with the water strained from the ginger, and boil till the apples look clear and the syrup is rich, which will be in about an hour. The rind of a lemon may be added just before the apples have finished boiling ; and great care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple in putting them into the jars. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time.— 2 days for the apples to remain in the jar with sugar, &c. ; 1 day to infuse the ginger ; about 1 hour to boil the apples. Average cost, for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in proportion, 2». 3d. Sufficient.—2> lbs. should fill 3 moderate-sized jars. Seasonable.—"ihis. should be made in September, October, or November, APPLES, Stewed, and Custard (a pretty Dish for a Juvenile Supper). ^ Ingreditnts.—l ^ood-sizeA apples, the Wnd of i lemon or 4 cloves, ^ lb. of sugar, f pint of water, ^ pint of custard. Mode. —Pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them, and if possible, leave the stalks on ; boil the jugarand water together for 10 minutes; then put m the apples with the lemon- nnd or cloves, whichever flavour may be preferred, and simmer gently until they are tender, taking care not to let tbem break. Dish thom neatly on a glass «l8b; reduce the syrup by boiling it Apricot Jam quickly for a few minutes, let it cool a little; then pour it over the apples. Have ready quite § jMnt of custard made by the recipe for Boiled Custard ; pour it round, but not over, the apples when they are quite cold, and the dish is ready for table. A few almonds blanched and cut into strips, and stuck in the ap[iles, would improve their appearance. Time. —From 20 to 30 minutss to stew the apples. Average cost, Is. Sufficient to fill a large glass dish. iSeasoaable from August to March. APKICOT CREAM. Ingredients.—12 to 16 ripe apricots, § lb. of sugar, 1| pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.—Divide the apricots, take out the stones, and boil them in a syrup made with ^ lb. of sugar and | pint of water, until they form a thin marmalade, which rub through a sieve. Boil the milk with the other ^ lb. of sugar, let it cool a little, then mix with it the j'olks of eggs which have been previously well beaten; put this mixture into a jug, place this jug in boiling water, and stir it one way over the fire until ib thickens ; but on no account let it boil. Strain through a sieve, add the isinglass, previously boiled with a small quantity of water, and keep stirring it till nearly cold; then mix the cream with the apricots; stir well, put it into an oiled mould, and, if convenient, set it on ice ; at any rate, in a very cool place. It should turn out on the dish without any difliculty. In winter-time, when fresh apricots are not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for them. Time.— From 20 to 30 minutes to boil the apricots. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable in August, September, and October. APRICOT JAM, or Marmalade. Ingredients.—1o every lb. of ripe apricots, weighed after'being skinned and stoned, allow 1 lb. of sugar. Mode. —Pare the apricots, which should be ripe, as thinly as possible, break them in half, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and to every lb. allow the same propor- tion of loaf sugar. Pound the sugar very finely in a mortar, strew it over the apricots, which should bo placed on dishes, and let them remain for 12 hours. Break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them with the sugar and fruit iato %