THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 180 Lemon Cheesecakea mould, and bako the cako about an hour, or rather longer. The addition of a little butter, beaten to a cream, wo think, would improve this cake. Time. ■—About 1 hour. Average cost, Is. id. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CHEESECAKES. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs, the rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 3. J/ot/e.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully grating the lemon-rind and straining the juice. Keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken: when of the consist- ency of honey, it is done ; then put it into small jars, and keep in a dry place. This mixture will remain good 3 or 4 months. When made into cheesecakes, add a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, or grated sweet biscuit; line some patty-pans with good puff-paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about \ hour in a good brisk oven. Time.—\ hour. Average cost, Is. id. Sufficient for 24 cheesecakes. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CBEAM. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs, ^ lb. of white sugar, 1 large lemon, 1 oz. of isinglass. Mode.-—Put the cream into a lined saucepan with the sugar, lemon-peel, and isinglass, and sim- LEMON-CKEAM MOULD. mer these over a gentle fire for about 10 minutes, stirring them all the time. Strain the cream into a jug, add the yolks of eggs, which should be well beaten, and put the jug into a saucepan of boiling water; stir the mixture one way until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; take it off the fire, and keep stirring it until nearly cold. Strain the l»mon-juice into a basin, gradually pour Lemon Creams on it the cream, and sliril well until tl juice is well mixed with it. Have read a well-oiled mould, pour the cream int it, and let it remain until perfectly set When required for table, loosen tlU|S)^ edges with a small blunt knife, put dish on the top of the mould, turn it ove' i quickly, and the cream should easily sli] away. Time.—10 minutes to boil th cream ; about 10 minutes to stir it ove the fire in the jug. Average cost, wit.1 cream at Is. per pint, and the best i glass, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill 1^-; mould. Seasonable at any time. LEMON CREAM, EconomicaL Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, 8 biUq almonds, 2oz. of gelatine, 21argelemo 5 lb. of lump sugar, the yolks of 6 Mode.—Put the milk into a lined sauced pan with the almonds, which should b( well pounded in a mortar, the gelatine lemon-rind, and lump sugar, and be these ingredients for about 5 minutis Beat up the yolks of the eggs, strain th( milk into a jug, add the eggs, and pouj the mixture backwards and forwards i few times, until nearly cold ; thea sti' briskly to it the lemon-juice, wh should be strained, and keep 6t until the cream is almost cold; put] into an oiled mould, and let it rer ' until perfectly set. The lemon-ju must not be added to the cream whe is warm, and should be well stirred i it is put in. Time.—5 minutes to the milk. Average cost, 2s. 5d. Suffic to fill two 1^ pint moulds. Seasonablei any time. LEMON CREAMS, Very Good. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, 2 doa sweet almonds, 3 glasses of sherry, rind and juice of 2 lemons, sugar to Mode.—Blanch and chop the almonJ and put them into a jug with the ere in another jug put the sherry, lemfl rind, strained juice, and suflicientpounf sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. " rapidly from one jug to the other till' mixture is well frothed ; then pour it inti jelly-glasses, omitting the lemon-rin This is a very cool and delicious sweet i summer, and may be made less richj omitting the almonds and substitutio orange or raisin wine for the sherry.' ^ Tme.—Altogether, hour. Averagecoit, with cream at 1*. per pint, 3*. Suffi^^^ ■ \