THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 183 lemon Sauce, for Sweet Puddings lur in the above proportions; stir this jll in, anfl put in the lemon-juice at the sment of serving ; mix the stock with e creiin), and add a little salt. This •ace should not boil after the cream and 5ck are mixed together. Time.—Alto- ther, J hour. Average cost, Is. (id. th'ri'eiit, this quantity, for a pair of •ife liiiiled fiiwls. ynle. — Wheie the expense of the cream olijected to, milk may be substituted - it In this case, an additional des- •tspoonfu', or rather more, of flour ist be added. BJMON SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- lings. Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 1 lion, 1 tablespoouful of Hour, 1 oz. of tter, 1 larg^e wiuefjlassful of sherry, 1 leylassful of water, sugar to taste, the Iks of 4 eggs. Mode.—Rub the rind the lemon on to some lumps of sugar; leeze out the juice, and strain it; put J butter and Hour into a saucepan, I* them over the fire, and when of a le brown, add the wine, water, and aineil lemon-jnice. Ciush the lumps sugar that were rubbed on the lemon ; r these into the sauce, which should very sweet. When these ingredients ! Well niixeil, and the sugar is molted, t, iu the beaten yolks of 4 eggs ; keep •ring the sauce until it thickens, when ve. Do not, on any account, allow it boil, or it will curdle, and be entirely died. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. erufje cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 ■sous. iJMON SPONGE. * 'jigredients.—2 oz. of isinglass, 1| pint water, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, the Be of 5 lemons, the rind of 1, the ites of 3 eggs. Mode.—Dissolve the iglass in the water, strain it into a icepau, and add the sugar, lemon-rind, 1 juice. Boil the whole from 10 to minutes ; strain it again, and let it hd till it is cold and begins to stiffen. it the whites of the eggs, put them to and whisk the mixture till it is quite ite ; [)ut it into a mould which has III previously wutted, and let it remain ,il )>erfertly set; then turn it out, and tiifh it according to taste. Time. — ;a 15 minutes. Average cost, with the t isinglass, 4«. Sufficient to fill a quart Uld. Seasonable at any tim9, Lemons, to Pickle LEMGH" SYRUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 pints of water. I oz. of citric acid, ^ drachm of essence of lemon. Mode.— Boil the sugar and water together for J hour, and put it into a basin, where let it remain till cold. Beat the citric acid to a powder, mix the essence of lemon with it, then add these two ingredient? to the syrup ; mix well, and bottle for use. Two tablespoon fills of the syrup are sufficient tor a tumbler of cold watc, and will he found a vei-y rel'resliing sum- mer drink. Sufficient. —2 tablcspoo-ufuls of syrup to a tumblerful of cold water. LEMOTTS, to Pickle, witli the Peel on. >v higredients.—6 lemons, 2 quarts of boiling water; to each quart of vinegar allow ^ oz. of cloves, oz. of white pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, 5 oz. of maue and chilies, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, h stick of sliced horserailish, a few cloves of garlic. Mode.—Put the leumns into a brine that will bear an egg ; let them remain in it 6 days, stirring them every day; have ready 2 quarts of boiling water, put in the lemons, and allow them to boil for I hour; take them out, and let them lie in a cloth until perfectly dry and cold. Boil up sufficient vinegar to cover the lemons, with all the above ingredients, allowing the same propor- tion as stated to each quart of vinegar. Pack the lemons in a jar, pour over the vinegar, &c. boiling hot, and tie down with a bladder. They will he fit for use in about 12 months, or rather sooner. Seasonable.—This should be made from November to April. LEMOTiTS, to Pickle, without the Peel. Ingredients.—6 lemons, 1 lb. of fine salt; to each quart of vinegar, the same ingredients as in the last recipe. Mode, —Peel the lemons, slit each one down 3 times, so as not to divide them, and rub the salt well into the divisions ; place thorn in a pan, where they must remain for a week, turning them every other day; then put them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the salt has become perfectly dry ; then arrange them in a jar. Pour over sufficient boil- ing vinegar to cover them, to which have been added the ingredients mentioned in