THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 291 nice Snowballs ter well some small cups or moulds, line them with a few pieces of candied peel sliced very thin, fill them three parts full, and bake for about 40 minutes ; turn them out of the cups on to a white d'oy- ley, and serve with sweet sauce. The flavouring and candied peel might be omitted, and stewed fruit or preserve served instead, with these puddings. Time.—40 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time. BICE SNOWBALLS (A Pretty Dish, for Juvenile Suppers). Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quai't of milk, flavouring of essence of almonds, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard. Mode. —Boil the rice in the milk, with sugar and a flavouring of essence of almonds, until the former is tender, adding, if ne- cessary, a Uttle more milk, should it dry iway too much. When the rice is quite soft, put it into teacups, or small round jars, and let it remain until cold; then ;uni the rice out on a deep glass dish, Dour over a custard, and on the top of ;ach ball place a small piece of bright- coloured preserve or jelly. Lemon-peel jr vanilla may be boiled with the rice nstead of the essence of almonds, when ;ither of these is preferred ; but the favouring of the custard must corre- spond with that of the rice. Time.— /i-bout f hour to swell the rice in the nilk. Average cost, with the custard, 1*. Qd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. MCE SOUFFLE. Ingredients. — 3 tabkspoonfuls of jround rice, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, jounded sugar to taste, flavouring of emon-rind, vanilla, coffee, chocolate, or inything that may be preferred, a piece )f butter the size of a walnut. Mode.— Hix the ground rice with 6 tablespoon- uls of the milk quite smoothly, and put t into a saucepan with the remainder of ;ho milk and butter, and keep stirring it )ver the fire for about ^ hour, or until ;h6 mixture thickens. Separate the rolks from the whites of the eggs, beat ;he former in a basin, and stir to them ;he rice and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the soufild ; but add this latter ngredient as sparingly as possiblp, as ihe less sugar there is used the lighter fill b« the Bouffl^. Now whisk the Rice for Curries, &e., Boiled whites of the eggs to a stiff froth or snow; mix them with the other prepara- tion, and pour the whole into a souffle- dish, and put it instantly into the oven; bake it about ^ hour in a moderate oven, take it out, hold a salamander or hot shovel over the top, sprinkle sifted sugar over it, and send the souffle to table in the dish it was baked in, either with a napkin pinned round, or inclosed in a more ornamental dish. The excellence of this fashionable dish entirely depends on the proper whisking of the whites of the eggs, the manner of baking, and the expedition with which it is sent to table. Souffles should be served instantly from the oven, or they will sink, and be nothing more than an ordinary pudding. Time.—About | hour. Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons, Seasonaile at any time. BICE SOUP. Ingredients.—4 oz. of Patna rice, salt, cayenne, and mace, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode.—Throw the rice into boiling water, and let it boil until tender; then pour it into a sieve, and allow it to drain well. Now add it to the stock boiling, and allow it to simmer a few minutes; season to taste. Serve quickly. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost. Is. Sd. per quart, Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. RICE SOUP. Ingredients.—6 oz, of rice, the yolks of 4 eggs, ^ a pint of cream, rather more than two quarts of stock. Mode. —Boil the rice in the stock, and rub half of it through a tammy ; put the stock in the stewpan, add all the rice, and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve; take the soup off the fire, add the eggs and- cream, stirring frequently. Heat it gradually, stirring all the time; but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. id. per quart. Suffi' dent for 8 persons. Seasonable all {he yeai'. BICE for Curries, &c,, Boiled. Ingredients.—| lb, of rice, water. Salt, Mode.—Pick, wash, and soak the rice in plenty of cold water ; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water.^ drop the noe