THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 806 Sauce, Maltre d'Hotel 1 pint of Indian soy, 1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of shalots, f oz. of garlic, A pint of port wine. Mode.—Be very particular in choosing the walnuts as soon as thoy ap- pear in the market; for they aro more easily bruised before they become hard and shelled. Pound them in a mortar to a pulp, strew some salt over them, and let them remain thus for two or throe days, occasionally stirring and moving them about. Press out tho juice, and to each quart of walnut-liquor allow the above proportion of vinegar, soy, cayenne, Bhalots, garlic, and port wine. Pound each ingredient separately in a mortar, then mix them well together, and store away for use in small bottles. The corks should be well sealed. Seasonable.—This sauce should be made as soon as walnuts are obtainable, from the beginning to tha middle of July. SAUCE, Maltre d'Hotel (Hot), to serve with Calf's Head, Boiled Eels, and different Fish. Ingredients.—1 slice of minced ham, a few poultiy-trimmings, 2 shalots, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, | pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 heaped tablespoouful of chopped pars- ley ; salt, pepper, and cayenne, to taste ; the juice of ^ large lemon, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put at the bottom of a stewpan the minced ham, and over it the poultry-trimmings (if these are not at hand, veal should be substituted), with the shalots, gai-lic, and bay-leaf. Pour in the water, and let the whole simmer gently for 1 hour, or until tho liquor is reduced to a full ^ pint. Then strain this gravy, put it in another saucepan, make a thickening of butter and flower in the abovo proportions, and stir it to the gravy over a nice clear firo, until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick, care being taken that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well, add tho remaining ingredients, lot tho sauce gradually heat, but do not allow it to boil. If this sauce is intended for an cntrdo, it is necessary to make it of a suflicient thickness, so that it may adhere to what it is meant to cover. Time.—1.^ hour. Average cost, \t. 2d. per pint. Sufficie7it for re- warming the remains of h calf's head, or a small dish of cold flaked turbot, cod^ &0, Sauce, a Good SAUCE, Maigre Maltre d'Hotel (Hot.—Made without Meat). Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of chopped pars' ley, salt and pepper to taste, the juice of 1 largo lemon; when liked, 2 minced shalots. i7orfe.—Make ^ pint of melted butter, stir in the above ingredients, and let them just boil; when it is ready to serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, Qd. per pint. SAUCE PIQUANTE, for Cutlets, Boast Meat, &c. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 small carrot, 6 shalots, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, \ a bay-leaf, 2 slices of lean ham, 2 cloves, 6 pepper- corns, 1 blade of mace, 3 whole allspice, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, i pint of stock, 1 small lump of sugar, | s'altspoon- ful of cayenne, salt to taste. Mode.—■ Put into a stewpan the butter, with tho carrots and shalots, both of which must be cut into small slices; add tho herbs, bay-leaf, spices, and ham (which must ba minced rather finely), and let these in« gredients simmer over a slow fire, until the bottom of tho stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and put in the remain- ing ingredients. Simmer very gently for \ hour, skim off every particle of fat, strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot. Care must be taken that this sauce be not made too acid, although it' should possess a sharpness indicated by its name. Of course the above quantity of vinegar may be increased ordiminished at pleasure, according to taste. Time. — Altogether ^ hour. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for "a medium-sized dieh of cut- lets. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE, a Good, for Various Boiled Puddings. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, | lb. of pounded sugar, a wineglassful of brandy or rum. Mode.—Beat tho butter to a cream, until no lumps remain ; add the pounded sugar, and brandy or rum ; stir once or twice until tho whole isthoroucfhly mixed, and servo. This sauce may cither bo poured round tho pudding or served in a tureen, according to the taste or faucjf of the cook or mistress. 4-veraj]$