THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Kabbits, Stewed in Milk ing of butter and flour, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Well wash the rabbit, cut it into quarters, lard them with slips of bacon, and fry them ; then put them into a stewpan with the broth, herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; simmer gently until the rabbit is tender, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and floui-, add the sherry, let it boil, pour it over the rabbit, and serve. Garnish with slices of cut lemon. Time. —Eather more than ^ hour. Average cost, \s. to Is. Qd. each. 'Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable irom September to February. BABBITS, Stewed in Milk. Ingredients.—2 very young rabbits, not nearly half gi'own ; Ih pint of milk, 1 blade of mace, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and cayenne. Mode.— Mix the flour very smoothly with 4 tablo- spooafuls of the milk, and when this is well mixed, add the remainder. Cut up the rabbits into joints, put thom into a stewpan, with the milk and other ingre- dients, and simmer them very gently imtil quite tender. Stir the contents from time to time, to keep the milk smooth and prevent it from burning. A hour will be sufficient for the cooking of this dish. Time.—h hour. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. BABBITS, to carve. In carving a boiled rabbit, let the knife be drawn on each side of the back- bone, the whole length of the rabbit, as ihown by the dotted line 3 to 4 : thus the rabbit will be in three parts. Now BOILED BABBIT. let the back be divided into two equal parts in the direction of the lino from 1 to 2; then let the leg bo taken off, as shown by the line 5 to 6, and the shoulder, as shown by the lino 7 to 8. This, in our opinion, is tho best plan to carve a rabbit, although thsro are other modes which are preferred by some. Baised Pie, of Poultry or Game A roast rabbit is rather differently trussed from one that is meant to be boiled; but the carving is nearly similar, BOAST BABBIT. as will be seen by the cut. The back shoutd be divided into as many pieces as it will give, and the legs and shoulders can then be disengaged in the same manner as those of the boiled animal. BAISED PIE, of Poultry or Game. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow s lb of butter, J iiiiit of water, tho yolks of 2 eggs, k teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust); 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. Mode.—IMake a stiff short crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly ; butter a raised-pie mould, and line it with paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or whatever bird is intended to be used^ lay it, breast downwai'ds, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a laj'er of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of force- meat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pio with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal, and ham, and forcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste- incers, and decorate it with leaves; rush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. In the mean time, make a good strong gravy from tho bones, pour it through a funnel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small leaf, and tho pie, when cold, will bo ready for use. Let it be remembered that the gravy mxist be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie, as, when cold, it should form a firm jelly, and not be the least dogrco in a liquid state. This recipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to tho size of the pio intended to bo mado ;