172 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. July, Things iu Season Sunday.—1. Julionno soup. 2. Roast lamb, hull" calf's head, tonguo and brains, boiled bam, peas and potatoes. 3. Cherry tart, custards. Mondiaj.—1. Hashed calf's head, cold lamb and salad. 2. Vegetablo marrow and white sauce, instead of pudding. Tuesday.—1. Stewed veal, with peas, young carrots, and potatoes. Small meat pio. 2. Raspberry-and-currant pudding. Wednesday.—1. Roast ducks stufTcd, gravy, peas, and potatoes ; the remains of stewed veal rechaufTd 2. Macaroni Eerved as a sweet pudding. Thursday.—1. Slices of salmon and caper sauce. 2. Boiled knuckle of veal, parsley-and-butter, vegetable marrow and potatoes. 3. Black-currant pudding. Friday.—1. Roast shoulder of mutton, onion sauce, peas and potatoes. 2. Cherry tart, baked custard pudding. Saiia'day.—1. Minced mutton, rump- steak-and-kidney pudding. 2. Baked lemon pudding. JULY, Things in Season. Fish.—Carp, crayfish, dory, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, pike, plaice, prawns, salmon, shrimps, soles, sturgeon, tench, thornback. Heat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chicke-DS, ducklings, fowls, green geese, leverets, plovers, pullets, rabbits, turkey poults, wheateai-s, wild ducks (called flappers). Vegetables. — Artichokes, asparagus, beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mush- rooms, onions, peas, I'adishes, small salading, sea-kale, sprouts, turnips, vege- table marrow,—various herbs. Fruit.—Apricots, cherries, currants, figs, gooseberries, melons, nectarines, pears, pineapples, plums, raspberries, strawberries, walnuts in high season, for pickling. JUIilENNE, Soup h, la. Ingredients.—.J pint of carrots, .J pint of turnips, pint of onions, 2 or 3 leeks, 1 head of celery, 1 lettuce, a little sorrel •and chervil, if liked, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Qwt the vege- tables into strips of about l.j inch long, and bo particular they are all the same size, or som,o will bo hard whilst the Others will bejione to a pulp. Cut the Kidneys, Broiled lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into larijor pieces; fry the car- rots in the butter, and pour the stock boiling to them. When this is done, add all the other vegetables and herbs, and stew gently for at least an hour. Skim off all the fat, pour the soup over thin slices of bread, cut round about the size of a shilling, and serve. Time. - U hour. "^"^ °^ vegetablb. Average cost.—Is. Zd. per quart. Season^ able all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—In summer, green peas, aspa- rngus-tops, French beans, &c., can be added. When the vegetables are very strong, instead of frying them in butter at first, they should be blanched, and afterwards simmered in the stock. KALE BROSE (a Scotch Hecipe). Ingredients.—Half an ox-head or cow- heel, a teacupful of toasted oatmeal, salt to taste, 2 handfuls of greens, 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Make a broth of the ox-head or cow-heel, and boil it till oil , floats on the top of the liquor, then boil ' the greens, shred, in it. Put the oat- meal, with a little salt, into a basin, and mix with it quickly a teacupful of the fat broth : it should not run into one doughy mass, but form knots. Stir it into the whole, give one boil, and serve very hot. Time.—4 hours. A verage cost, 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. SvffirierA for 10 persons. KEGEREE. Ingredients.—Any cold fish, 1 teacup- ful of boiled rice, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of mustard, 2 soft-boiled c.!rt,'s, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—I'ick the fish carefully from the bones, mix with the other ingredients, and serve J very hot. The quantities may bo varied ■ L according to the amount of fish r '■■ Time.—i hour after the rice is b Average cost, 5d. exclusive of the fish. ^ KIDNEYS, Broiled (a Breakfast or • j .^. Supper Dish). ryj Ingredients.—Sheep kidneys, pcj "•cr and salt to taste. Modt.—Asecv^-^a t lor 8 II