THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 74 Chorry Jam to shrivel and bocomo tough if too much sugar bo added to them. Averatje cost, Is. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient.—1 lb. of cherries and about a i pint of brandy for a quart bottlo. Seasonable in August and September. CHEEBY JAM. Ingredients. — To every lb. of fruit, weighed before stoning, allow h lb. of sugar ; to every G lbs. of fruft allow 1 pint of red-currant juice, and to every pint cf juice 1 lb. of sugar. Mode.— Weigh the fruit before stoning, and allow halt the weight of sugar ; stone the cher- ries, and boil them in a preserving-pan until nearly all the juice is dried up, then add the sugar, which should be crushed to powder, and the currant-juice, allow- ing 1 pint to every 6 lbs. of cherries (ori- ginal weight), and 1 lb. of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil all together until it jollies, which will be in fi-om 20 minutes to h hour; skim the jam well, keep it well stirred, and, a few minutes before it is done, crack some of the stones, and add the kernels: these impart a very delicious flavour to the jam. Time.— According to the quality of the cherries, from 5 to 1 hour to boil them; 20 mi- nutes to I hour with the sugar. Average cost, from Id. to 8(^. per lb. pot. Siifficieut. —1 pint of fruit for a lb. pot of jam. Seasonable. —JIake this in July or August. CHERBY SAUCE, for Sweet Pud- dings (German Eecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of cherries, 1 table- spoouful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, ^ pint of water, 1 wincglassful of port wine, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, 2 tablospoonfuls of lemon-juice, sugar to taste. Mode.—Stono the cher- ries, and pound the kernels in a mortar to a smooth paste ; put tho butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over tho fire until of a pale brown, then add the cherries, tho pounded kernels, the wine, and the water. Simmer these gently for ,| hour, or until tho cherries aro quite cooked, and rub tho whole through a hair sieve ; add the remaining ingre- dients, let tho sauce boil for another 6 minutes, and serve. This is a deli- cious sauce to serve with boiled batter pudding, and when thus used, should bo sent to table poured over tho pud- ding, rij/ie.—20 minutea to J hour. Chestnut Sauce Average cost, 1«. 2d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in Juno, July, and August. CHEBRY TABT. Ingredients.—l.^ lb. of cherries, 2 small table.spoonfuls of moist sugar, ^ lb. of short crust. Mode. — Pick the stalks from the cherries, put tliem, with tho sugar, into a deep pic-dish just cai)able of holding them, with a small cup placed upside down in the midst of them. Jlake a short crust with ^ lb. of flour, by either of tho reci[)es for short crust, lay a bor- der round the edge of tho dish, put on the cover, and ornament the edges ; bake in a brisk oven from h hour to 40 mi- nutes ; strew finely-silted sugar over, and serve hot or cold, although the latter is the more usual mode. It is more economical to make two or three tarts at one time, as the trimmings from one tart answer for lining the edges of the dish for another, and so much paste is not required as when they are made singly. Unless for family use, never make fmit pies in very large dishes; select them, however, as dee}) as possible. Time. — i hour to 40 minutes. Average cost, in lull season, %d. Sufficient for h or 6 per- sons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. Note.—A few currants added to the cherries will be found to impart a nice piquante taste to them. CHESTNUT SAUCE, BrowH. Ingredients.—\ lb. of chestnuts, h pint of stock, 2 lumps of sugar, 4 tablospoon- fuls of Spanish sauce {see Sauces). Mode. —Prepare the chestnuts as in the suc- ceeding recipe, by scalding and peeling them ; put them in a stewpan with the stock and sugar, and simmer them till tender. When done, add Spanish sauce in tho above proportion, and rub tho whole through a tammy. Keep this sauce rather liquid, as it is liable to thicken. Time.—1.^ hour to simmer tho chestnuts. Average cost, 8d. CHESTNUT SAUCE, lor Fowls or Tm'koy. Ingredients.—^ lb. of chestnuts, J pint of white stock, 2 strips of lemon-peel, cayenne to tasto, ^ pint of cream or milk. Mode.—FcqI off the outside skin oi tho chestnuts, and put them into boiKng