182 THE DTCTTONATlY 0? COOKEBI?. Lemon Pudding, Baked LEMON PUDDING, Baked. IvjrstHeiits.—The yolks of 4 egcjs, 4 oz. of pouiidud sugar, 1 lomon, \ lb. of butter, pnH'-urust. MixLe. — Boat the eggs to a froth ; mix with them the sugar and warmed butter; stir these ingredi- ents well together, putting in the grated rind and straineil juice of the lemon- pool. Line a shallow dish with pufF- paste; put in the mixture, and bake in a moflerate oven for 40 minutes ; turn the pudding out of the dish, strew over itj'^sifted sugar, and serve. Time.—40 mifautes. Average cost, lOrf. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—10 oz. of bread crumbs, 2 pints of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 1 lemon, \ lb. of pounded sugar, 4 eg>is, 1 table- spoonful of brandy. Mode.—Bring the milk to the boiling point, stir in the butter, and pour these hot over the bread crumV)s; add the suiiar and very finely-tniiieeil lemon-peel ; beat the egg's, and .stir these in with the brandy to the other ingredients ; put a paste round the dish, and bake for ^ hour. Time.— f hour. A veiiu/e cost, \s. 2d. Siffident fur 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Baked (Very Eich). Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 2 lariie lemons, i lb. of loaf sugar, ;J pint of cream, the yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of almonds, lb. of butter, melted. Mode. —Mix the pounded sugar with the cream and add the yolks of e.^gs and the but- ter, which should be previously warmed. Blanch and poimd the almonds, and put these, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemons, to the other ingre- dients. Stir all well together; line a dish with pufF-paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. A verage cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. LEMON PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—1 lb. of chopped suet, I lb. of bread crumbs, 2 small lemons, G oz. of moist sugar, \ lb. of flour, 2 eg!js, milk. il/o(/e.—Mix the suet, bread crumbs, sugar, and (lour well to^retlier, adding tk© leinou-peol, which should be Lemon Wliite Sruice 3_ /S3 very finely minced, and 'he juinc, whiefti^ ^ should bo strained. When Iht.-c? ii p-pe- ' dients are well mixed, mois'iju u i:lj tlie eggs and sufficient tnilk to niii!:e the pudding of the consibtxjiicy of thii k bit- ter; put it into a well-buttvi ed mould, anri boil for 3.^ hours ; turn it out, strew silted sugar over, and serve wiih wine sauce, or not, at pleasure. Tiine.—3^ hours. Average cost, \s. Sufficieid for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding may also be baked, and will be found very good. It will take about 2 hours. LEMON PUDDING, Plain. Ingredients.—\\h. of flour,6oz. oflarm""^ or dripping, the juice ofl large l"nion7 \ 1 teaspoonful of flour, su^'ar. Made.— Make the above proportions of flour and lard into a smooth paste, and roll it 'mt . to the thickness of about .J an inch. Squeeze the lemon-juice, strain it intu a cup, stir the Hour into it, and as much moist sugar as will make it into a sritf and thick paste; spread this riiixtur|4| iii over the paste, roll it up, seciu*e ibw '=' ends, and tie the pudding in a (loured I cloth. Boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours, f Average cost, 7d. Snfficieul tor 5 or 6 t persons. Seasonable at any time. t » LEMON SAUCE,for Boiled Fowl ( Ingredients.—Ismail lemon, J pint of | melted butter. Mode.—Cut the lemon i into very thin slices, and these atr.iin i into very small dice. Have rea<iy J pint I of melted butter, put in the lemon ; let j it just simmer, but not boil, and pour it | over the fowls. Time.—1 minute to '. simmer. Average cost, 6d. Sitfficient foi a pair of large fowls. LEMON WHITE SAUCE, for Fowls, Fricassees, &o. Ingredients.—^ pint of cream, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of whole white pejiper, 1 sprig of Kiimn thyme, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertsiioinlul of flour, 1 teacupful of white stock ; suit to taste. i1/o^/<;.—Put the cream ir;.'* very clean saucepan (a lined one is l i-t), with the lemon-peel, pepper, and thyme, and let these infuse for hour, "' " simmer gently for a few minutes, or there is a nice flavour of lemon. ^. it, and add a thickening of buW-er and