THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 198 Milk and Cream, Separation of MILK AND CBEAM, Separation of. If it be desirofi that the milk Rhould be freed entirely from cream, it siiould be poured into a veiy shallow broad pan or dish, not, more than U inch deep, as cream cannot rise through" a gieat depth of milk. In cold ami wet weather, milk is not BO rich as it is in summer and warm weather, and the morning's milk is always richer than the evening's. The last-drawn milk of each milking, at all times and seasons, is richer than the first-drawn, and on that account should be set apart for cream. Milk should be shaken as little as possible when carried from the cow to the dairy, and shouM be poured into the pans very gently. Per- sons not keeping cows, may always have a little cream, provided the milk they purchase be pure and unadulterated. As soon as it comes in, it shnuld be poured inio very shallow open pie-dishes, and set by in a very cool place, and in 7 or 8 hours a nice cream should have risen to the surface. MILK AND CREAM, Substitute lor, in Tea and Coffee. Ingredients. — 1 new laid egg to every large bn akiastcupful of tea or coffee. 3Jode.—Beat up the whole of the egg in a basin, put it into a cup, and pour over it the tea or coffee quite hot, stiri ing all the time to prevent the egg from curd- ling. In point of nourishment, both tea and coffee are much improved by this addition. Sufficimt. — 1 egg to every large breaklastcupful of tea or coffee. MILK SOUP (a nice Dish for Children). Jngrtdieiits.—2 quarts of milk, 1 salt- Bpc)onfn] of salt, 1 tiaspoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, 4 thin slices of biead, the yolks ol 6 cgtrs. ^Jfide —Boil the milk with the salt, cinnamon, and sugar ; lay the bread in a ileep dish, pour over it a little of the niilk, anil keep it iiot over a stove, w ith- out bui iiing. Beat up the yolks of the egg«, add them to the milk, and stir it o\er the tire till it thickens. Do not let it ciu'dle. Pour it upon the bread, and servo. Time.—^ of an hour. Average cost, 9<l. per quart. Seaso'table oil the year. SuJJititM for 10 childi-on. Mincemeat MINCE PIES. /ngredi'euU.—Good pufT-pasto, mina meat. A/ode.—Mi]<q pome gooil j.uJ paste by recipe ; roll it out to the thicjj ness of about i inch, and line some pood-sized pa 11 y p a n 8 vvith it; fill them with mincemeat. UirCB PIES. cover with the paste, and cut it off aJ round close to the edge of the tin. Pu the pies into a brisk oven, to draw thi paste up, and bake for 25 minutes, o lon:<er, should the pies bo very lar'^o brush them over with the white of''a: eg-r, beaten with the blade of a knife to ) stiff froth ; sprinkle over pounded sugar anit put them into the oven for a minuf or two, to dry the egs ; dish the pit s oi a white d'oyley, and serve hot. Ti-ei may be merely spriiikled wiih poun lec sugar instead of being glazed, when tha' mode is preferred. To re-warm them put the pies on the pattyiians, and Ic them ren)ain in the oven for 10 minute: or I hour, and they will be almost a; good as if fr>-shly made. Time.—2b t< 3 ' minutes; 10 minutes to re-warm th-.-ni. A':erage cost, id. each. Stif}l:ieirt—h i'a. of I ijiste for 4 pies. Seasonable at Christ-: mas time. MINCEMEAT. . Ingredients.—2 Ibg. of raisins, 3 H 'S. ol currants, lA lb. of lean he^, 3 l!'?. of beef suet, '2 lbs. of moist sug u-. 2 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of candied loiuon- eel, 2 oz. of candied orange-peel, 1 i ij* nutmeg, 1 pottle of apples, the r: i i of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, h [lint. of lir luly. Mode.—Stone and ait the raisins o:;i c or twice across, but do not chop ih in; wash, dry, and pick the currant- i"ic9 from stalks and grit, and mince th' ef and suet, taking care that the tor is chopjied very fine ; s'ice the ' and candied pfcl, trrate the 'jutni^ pare, core, and mince tne apples ; \..-:\ce the lemon-peel, strain the juici i. when all the ingredients are ih pared, mi.\ them well together, the brandy when the otiier thin; ~ well blended ; press the whole into > iai"* carefully exclude the air, and the n i' ca* meat will bo ready for use iu a fonni^fafc