403 Ices. not properly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue ; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good effect. Lemon jelly may also be made with calf s-feet stock, allowing the juice of 3 lemons to every pint of stock. CHARLOTTE-AUX-POMMES. Ingredients.—A few slices of rather stale bread ^ inch thick, clarified butter,, apple marmalade, with about 2 dozen apples, g glass of sherry. 3fode.—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bottom of a plain round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the mould and about Ig inch wide; dip the bread in clarified butter (or spread it with cold butter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, ovei'lapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may escape, and that they may hold firmly to the mould. Brush the interior over wilh white of egg (this will assist to make the case firmer); fill it with apple marmalade, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover all with a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg, the same as the bottom ; slightly press the bread down, to make it adhere to the other pieces ; put a plate on the top, and bake the clmrlotte in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over the top, and pour round it a little melted apricot jam. OPEN" TART. Ingredients,—Trimmings of puff-paste, any kind of jam. Mode.—Bxxiiev a tart-pan of the shape shown in the Plate, roll out the paste to the thickness of | an inch, and line the pan with it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake the tart in a brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Let the paste cool a little ; then fill it with preserve, place a few stars or leaves on it, which have been previously cut out of the paste and baked, and the tart is ready for table. By making it in this manner, both the flavour and colons of the jam are preserved, which would otherwise be lost, were it baked in the oven on the paste; and, besides, so much jam is not required. ICES. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit-juice allow 1 pint of cream; sugar ta taste. Mode- Let the fruit be well ripened ; pick it off the stalks, and put it into a large earthen pan. Stir it about with a wooden spoon, breaking it until it is well mashed ; then, with the back of the spoon, rub it through a hair sieve. Sweeten it nicely with pounded sugar; whip the cream for a few minutes, add it to the fruit, and whisk the whole again for another .5 minutes. Put the mixture into