THE DICTIONARy OP COOKERY. 209 Mutton, Haricot tiirnipa into dice, and the onions into slices, and slightly fry them in the same fat that the mutton was browned in, but do not allow them to take any colour. Now lay the mutton at the bottom of a stewpan, then the vegetables, and pour over them just sufBcient boiling water to cover the whole. Give the boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently until the meat is tender. Skim off every particle of fat, add a seasoning of p ^pper and salt, and a little ketchup, and serve. This dish is very much better if made the day before it is wanted for table, as the fat can be so much more easily removed when the gravy is cold. This should be particularly attended to, as it is apt to be rich and greasy if eaten the same day it is made. It should be served in rather a deep dish. Time.—2^ hours to simmer gently. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. MUTTON, Haricot. Ingredients.—Breast or scrag of mut- ton, flour, pepper, and salt to taste, 1 large onion, 3 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of mace, carrots and tur- nips, sugar. Mode.—Cnt the mutton into square pieces, and fry them a nice colour; then dredge over them a little flour and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Put all into a stewpan, and moisten with boiling water, adding the onion, stuck with 3 cloves, the mace, and herbs. Simmer gently till the meat is done, skim off all the fat, and then add the carrots and turnips, which should be previously cut in dice and fried in a little sugar to colour them. Let the whole simmer again for 10 minutes ; take out the onion and bunch of herbs, and serve. Time.— About 3 hours to simmer. Average cost, per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOW, Haricot. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 des- sertspoonful of flour, .1 pint of good gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine, 1 tablcspoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery. Mode.—C\xt the cold mutton into moderate-sized chops, and Mutton, Roast Haunch of take off the fat; slice the onions, and fry them with the chops, in a little butter, of a nice brown colour ; stir in the flour, add the gravy, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the mean time boil the vegetables until nearly tender, slice them, and add them to the mutton about ^ hour before it is to be served. Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup and port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON", Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast shoulder or leg of mutton, 6 whole pep- pers, 6 whole allspice, a faggot of savoury herbs, ^ head of celery, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, flour. Mode.—Cut the meat in nice even slices from the bones, trim- ming off all superfluous fat and gristle; chop the bones and fragments of the joints, put them into a stewpan with the pepper, spice, herbs, and celery; cover with water, and simmer for 1 hour. Slice and fry the onion of a nice pale- brown colour, dredge in a little flour to make it thick, and add this to the bones, &c. Stew for \ hour, strain the gravy, and let it cool; then skim off every par- ticle of fat, and put it, with the meat, into a stewpan. Flavour with ketchup, Harvey's sauce, tomato sauce, or any flavouring that may be preferred, and let the meat gradually warm through, but not boil, or it will harden. To hash meat properly, it should be laid in cold gravy, and only left on the fire just long enough to warm through. Time.— Ih hour to simmer the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Koast Haunch of. Ingredients. — Haunch of mutton, a little salt, Hour. Modc—J^Qt this joint hang as long as possible without becom- HATTirCH OP injTToir. iug tainted, and while hanging dust flour over it, which keeps off the flies, and prevents the air from gettiug to it. If