84 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEHY. Beef, Hunter's Note.—Either of the above recipes may be served in walls of mashed potatoes browned; in which case the sippets should be omitted. Be careful thai hashed meat does not boil, or it wiU become totigh. BEEF, Hunter's. Ingredients. — For a round of beef weighing 25 lbs. allow 3 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 grat ed nutmeg, | oz. of allspice, 1 lb. of salt, I lb. bay-salt. Mode.—Hang the beef for 2 or 3 days, and remove the bone. Pound spices, salt, &c. in the above proportion, and let them be reduced to the iinest powder. Put the beef into a pan, rub all the ingredients well into it, and turn and rub it every day for rather more than a fortnight. When it has been sufficiently long in pickle, wash the meat, bind it up se- curely with tape, and put it into a pan with 2 pint of water at the bottom; mince some suet, cover the top of the meat with it, and over the pan put a common crust of flour and water ; bake for 6 hours, and when cold remove the paste. Save the gravy that flows from it, as it adds greatly to the flavour of hashes, stews, &c. The beef may be glazed and garnished with meat jelly. Time. — 6 hours. Seasonable all the year. Note.—In salting or pickling beef or pork for family consumption, it not being generally required to be kept for a great length of time, a less quantity of salt and a larger quantity of other matters more adapted to retain mellowness in meat, may be employed, which could not be adopted by the curer of the immense quantities of meat required to be pre- served for victualling the shipping of this maritime country. Sugar, which is well known to possess the preserving principle in a vory great degree, without the pungency and astringency of salt, may be, and is, vory generally used in the prcservingofmcat for family consumption. Although it acts without corrugating or .outracting the fibres of moat, as is the case in the action of salt, and, therefore, does not impair its mellowness, yet its ose in sufficient quantities for preservative (tflfcct, without the addition of other antiseptics, would impart a flavour not ngroeablo to the taste of many persons. \t may bo used, however, toijetlier with Bait, with tho greatest advant:\go in Imparting mildness and mellowness to Beef Kidney, to Dress cured meat, in a proportion of about one part by weight to four of the mixture; and, perhaps, now that sugar is so much lower in price than it was in foiinor years, one of the obstructions to its more - frequent use is removed. BEEF KIDNEY, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 kidney, clarified but- ter, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of highly-seasoned gravy, 1 ta. blespoonful of lemon-juice, i teaspoonful , of powdered sugar. Mode.—Cut the kidneys into neat slices, put them into warm water to soak for two hours, and 1 change the water 2 or 3 times ; then lay | them on a clean cloth to dry the water -) from them, place them in a frying- pan with some clarified butter, and fr them of a nice brown ; season each sida with pepper and salt, put them ronnd the dish, with the gravy in the mi Before pouring the gravy in the , add the lemon-juice and sugar. Tiiu<.-~ From 5 to 10 minutes. A verage cost, 9d. each. /Seasonable at any time. 1 BEEF KIDWEY, to Dress. Ingredients.—1 kidney, 1 dessert?; fill of minced parsley, 1 teaspoon: . : minced shalot, salt and pepper to ta^, ^ pint of gravy (follow one of the graff . recipes), 3 tablespoonfuls of sher™b4--' Mode.—Take off a little of the kid^^ fat, mince it very fine, and put it i^^V^ frying-pan; slice the kidney, sprin^Hj over it parsley and shalots in the ^^^B^ proportion, add a seasoning of pep^H^ and salt, and fry it of a nice ^>'''VK] When it is done enoug-h, dredge overTw little flour, and pour in the grary and sherry. Let it just simmer, but v '"' boil any more, or tho kidney v. harden; serve very hot, and gn with crofttons. ■UTiero the flavoiu-1 shalot is disliked it may be omitted, a small quantity of savom-y herbs su^^Vl tuted for it. Time.—From 5 to lO^Wa nutes, according to tho thickness slices. Average cost, Sd. ouch. Stiffii^^^ for 3 persons. Seasonable at any timHB"* BEEF KIDNEY, to Dress (a mO»f'«t simple method). Cut tho kidneys into thin slices, don . them, and fry of a nice brown. done, mako a grtivy in tho pan by l'^>" ing away tho fat, putting in a small pieo