THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 147 Gravy for Koast Meat [BAVY for Hoast Meat. Ingredients.—Grtivj,salt. Mode—Vni common dish with a small quantity of lit in it under the meat, about a quar- ;r of an hour before it is remoTed from je fiio. When the dish is full, take it fvay, baste the meat, and pour the gravy ito the dish on which the joint is to be jrved. I-BAVY for Venison. Ingredients.—Trimmings of venison, 3 \ 4 mutton shank-bones, salt to taste, 1 [nt of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut 3tehup. il/ocZe.—Brown the trimmings rer a nice clear fire, and put them in a jwpan with the shank-bones and water ; .nmer gently for 2 hours, strain and [im, and add the walnut ketchup and a laaoning of salt. Let it just boil, when lis ready to serve. Time.—2 hours. tAVY, Jugged (Excellent). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, ^ of lean ham, 1 onion or a few shalots, Dints of water, salt and whole pepper [taste, 1 blade of mace, a faggot of Voury herbs, A a large carrot, h a head J celery. Mock.—Cut up the beef and Im into small pieces, and slice the vege- ales; take a jar, capable of holding |o pints of water, and arrange therein, flayers, the ham, meat, vegetables, and jning, alternately, filling up with the ove quantity of water ; tie down the \, or put a plate over the top, so that steam may not escape; place it in I oven, and let it remain there I'lom 6 J8 hours; should, however, tha oven [very hot, less time will be required, aen sufficiently cooked, strain the [iTy, and when cold, remove the fat. lay be flavoured with ketchup, wines, lany other store sauce that may be pre- red. It is a good plan to put the jar ! a cool oven over-night, to draw the \y.vy; and then it will not require so ' baking the following day. Time.— ; a 6 to 8 hours, according to the oven. .rage cost, Id. per pint. lAVY-KETTLE. i'his is a utensil which will not bo iii'l in every kitchen ; but it is a useful whtro it IS necessary to keep "ravies for thu purpose of pouring over vari- Gravy, Bich ous dishes as they are cooking. It is made of copper, and should, conse- I GEAVT-KETTLB. quently, be heated over the hot-plate, if there be one, or a charcoal stove. GBAVY made witliout Meat for Fowls. Ingredients.—The necks, feet, livers, and gizzards of the fowls, 1 slice of toasted bread, ^ onion, 1 faggot ot sa- voury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, J pint of water, thickening of butter and flour, 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup, il/ocfe—Wash the feet of the fowls tho- roughly clean, and cut them and the neck into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with the bread, onion, herbs, seasoning, livers, and gizzards ; pour the water over them and simmer gently for 1 hour. Now take out the liver, pound it, and strain the liquor to it. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and a flavouring of mushroom ketchup ; boil it up and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, id. per pint. GBAVY, Bicli, for Haslios, Bagouts, &c. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 large onion or a few slialots, a little flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, 4 whole allspice, | teaspoonful of whole pepper, 1 slice ot lean ham or bacon, ^ a head of celery (when at hand), 2 pints of boiling water ; salt <and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, as also tlio onions, dredge them with flour, and fry of a pale brown, but do not allow them to get black ; pour in the boiling water, let it boil up, and skim. Add the remaining ingredients, and simmer the whole very gently for 2 hours, or until all the juices are extracted from the meat; put it by to get cold, when take off all tho fat. This gravy may bo flavoured with kot- chnp, store sauces, wine, or, in fact, any- thing that may give <(.d(Iitional and suit- I able relish to the dish it is intended for.