TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 159 Ice-Creams, Fruit r, black popper, and cinnamon, 7 )ves, A oz. maco, ^ oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. ated nutmeg, 1^ oz. white pepper. ode.—Pound the ingrerlients, and mix em thorou.;hly together, taking care It everything is well blended. Put the ce in a very dry glass bottle for use. e quantity of cayenne may be in- ;ased, should the above not be enough suit the palate. B-CREAMS, Fruit. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit- ce allow 1 pint of cream; sugar to ite. Mode. — Let the fruit be well ened ; pick it off the stalks, and put nto a large earthen pan. Stir it about ,h a wooden spoon, breaking it until it well mashed ; then, with tiie back of 1 spoon, rub it through a hair sieve, eeten it nicely with pounded sugar; ip the cream for a few minutes, add it ihe fruit, and whisk the whole again another 5 minutes. Put the mixture 3 the freezing-pot, and freeze, taking e to stir the cream, &c., two or three es, and to remove it from the sides of vessel, that the mixture may beequally sen and smooth. Ices are usually red in glasses, but if moulded, as they letimes are for dessert, must have a ill quantity of melted isinglass added ;bem, to enable them to keep their pe. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, all fruit ice-creams, are made in the le manner. A little pounded sugar akled over the fruit before it is ihed assists to extract the juice. In ter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, itle jam may be substituted for it: it aid be melted and worked through a e before being added to the whipped im; and if the colour should not be i, a little prepareil cochineal or beet- ; may be put in to improve its earance. yme.—A hour to freeze the tnre. Average cost, with cream at I per pint, 4(/. each ice. Seasonable, fresh fruit, in June, July, and l5ust. ^' 13, Lemon-water. \ifjred!ents.—'So every pint of syrup, |iv pint of lemon-juice; the rind of I nions. Mode.—linh the sugar on the 1 5 of the lemons, and with it make the ■kp. Strain the lemon-juice, add it to the fc-ingredients, stir well, and put the ■lure into a freezing-pot. Freeze as Ices directed for Ice Pudding, and when the mixture is thoroughly and equally frozen, put it into ice-glasses. Time.—\ hour to freeze the mixture. Averatje cost, 3d. to 4d. each. Seasonable at any time. ICED-PUDDIISra (Parisian Ke- cipe). Ingredients.—J lb. of sweet almonds, 2 oz. of bitter ones, ^ lb. of sugar, 8 egga, 1^ pint of milk. Mode.—Blanch and dry the almonds thoroughly La a cloth, then pound them in a mortar until re- duced to a smooth paste ; add to these the well-beaten eggs, tht sugar, and milk ; stir these ingredients over the fire until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil; then strain and put the mixture into the freezing-pot; surround it with ice, and freeze it. When quite fi.jzen, fill an iced-pudding mould, put (u the lid, and keep the pudding in ice until required for table; then turn it out on the dish, and garnish it with a compOle oi ICED-PUDDINQ MOXJLD. any fruit that may be preferred, pouring a little over the top of the pudding. This pudding may be flavoured with vanilla, Cura9oa, or Maraschino. Time.—^ hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable. —Served all the year round. ICES. Ices are composed, it is scarcely neces- sary to say, of congealed cream or water, combined sometimes with liqueurs or other flavouring ingredients, or more generally with the juices of fruits. At desserts, or at some evening parties, ices are scarcely to be dispensed with. The principal utensils required for making ice-creams are ice-tubs, freezing-pots.