32() THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERlf. Soup, Spring SOUP, Spring, or Potage Printa- nier. Ingredients.—^ a pint of green peas, if in season, a little chervil, 2 shredded lettuces, 2 onions, a very small bunch of parsley, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint of water, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of stock. Put in a clean stew- pan the chervil, lettuces, onions, parsley, and butter, to 1 pint of water, and let ' them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper ; when done, strain off the vegetables, and j)ut two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, and at the moment of serving, add this, with the vegetables which you strained off, to the soup. Time.—^ of an hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from May to October. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, stew, Inqredients.—2 lbs. of beef, 5 onions, 5 tu mips, ^ lb. of rice, a large bunch of parsley, a few sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 2 quarts of water. Alode.—Cut the beef up in small pieces, add the other ngredients, and boil gently for 2^ hours. Oatmeal or potatoes would be a great improvement, yi'me. —2^ hours. Ave- rage cost, 6(1. per quart. Seasonahle in winter. Sufficient for 6 persons. SOUP, stew. Ingredients.—h lb. of beef, mutton, or poi-k ; i, pmt I f split peas, 4 turnips, 8 })Otatoes, 2 onions, 2 oz. of oatmeal or 3 oz. of rice, 2 quarts of water. Mode.— Cut the meat in small pieces, as also the vegetables, and add them, with the peas, to the water. Boil gentlj' for 3 hours ; thicken with the oatmeal, boil lor another hour, stirring all the time, antl season with pepper and salt. Time. —hours. Average cost, id. per quart. Seasonahle in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup maybe made of the liquor in wbicli tripe has been boiled, by adding vegetables, seasoning, rice, 6iO. SOUP, Stew, of Salt Meat. Ingredients.-- Auy pieces of salt beef or pork; say 2 lbs.; 4 carrots, 4 parsnips, 4 turnips, 4 potatoes, 1 cabbage, 2 oz. of oatmeal or ground rice, seasoning of salt ftU'l pepijcr, 2 quarts of water. Mode,— Soup, White Cut up the meat small, add the water' st- and let it simmer for 2^ hours. Now adt il the vegetables, cut in thin small slices- lia season, and boil for 1 hour. Thickei; with the oatmeal, and servo. Time.— 2 hours. Average cost, 3d. per quar^ j; without the meat. Seasonable in winter: ^ Sifficient for 6 persons. Note.—If rice is used instead of cat" •» meal, put it in with the vegetables. SOUP, Useful for Benevolent Pur.- ^ poses. Ingredients.—An ox-cheek, any piece:) of trimmings of beef, which may b( bought very cheaply (say 4 lbs.), a few bones, any pot-liquor the larder maj. furnish, \ peck of onions, 6 leeks, a largt j bunch of herbs, h lb. of celery (the out .' side pieces, or green tops, do very well) ; h, lb. of carrots, h lb. of turnips, ^ lb. ol f coarse brown sugar, h a pint of beer, U lbs. of common rice, or pearl barley ; ij. lb. of salt, 1 oz. of black pepper, a few^ raspings, 10 gallons of water. Mode.— Divide the meat in small pieces, breaks the bones, put them in a copper, withi the 10 gallons of water, and stew for: half an hour. Cut up the vegetables,-, put them in with the sugar and beer, audi boil for 4 hours. Two hours before thee soup is wanted, add the rice and rasp-- ings, and keep stirring till they are well i mixed in the soup, which simmer gently.. If the liquor boils away a little, fill up- with water. Time.—hours. Averagt- cost, \hd. per quart. SOUP, White. Ingredienti.—| lb. of sweet almonds, I lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slico of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon- peel, 1 blade of mace, pounded, 3 pint of cream, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 quarts of white stock. Mode.— Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them the meat, which should be previously pounded with llio bread. Beat all together, and add tho lemon-peel, very finely choppeil, and tho mace. Pour tho boiling stoch. on tho whole, and simmer for an hour. Rub tho eggs in tho cream, put in tiio soup, bring it to a boil, and servo im- mediatelj\ Time.—\\ honr. Arrrage cost, Is. 6d. per qtiart. Sca.<!onable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—A more economical white soup may bo made by using common veal