54 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOEEEY.. Cabbage Soup and serve. Fried sausages are usually sent to table with this dish : they should be laid round and on the cabbage, as a garnish. Tme.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, id. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Septem- ber to January. CABBAGE SOUP. Ingredients.—1 large cabbage, 3 car- rots, 2 onions, 4 or 5 slices of lean bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock. Mode.—Scald the cab- bage, cut it up and drain it. Line the stewpan with the bacon, put in the cabbage, carrots, and onions; moisten with skimmings from the stock, and sim- mer very gently, till the cabbage is tender ; add the stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefully skim off every particle of fat. Season and serve. Time, 1^ hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. CABINET OP CHANCELLOR'S PUDDING. Ingredients.—1| oz. of candied peel, 4 oz. of currants, 4 dozen sultanas, a few slices of Savoy cake, sponge cake, a French roll, 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, grated lemon-rind, ^ nutmeg, 3 table- spoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Melt some butter to a paste, and with it, well grease the mould or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, taking care that it is buttered in every part. Cut the peel into thin slices, and place these in a fanciful device at the bottom of the mould, and fill in the spaces between with currants and sultanas; then add a few slices of sponge cake or French roll; drop a few drops of CABINET puDDiN-Q, moltcd buttcr on those, and between each layer sprinkle a few currants. Pro- ceed in this manner until the mould is nearly full; then flavour the milk with nutmeg and grated lemon-rind ; add the sugar, and stir to this the eggs, which should be well beaten. Beat this mix- ture for a few minutes ; then' strain it into the mould, which should be quite full; tie a piece of buttered paper over it, and lot it stand for two hours ; then tie it down with a cloth, put it into Caf6 Noir boiling water, and let it boil slowly for 1 hour. In taking it up, let it stand for a qpinute or two before the cloth is re- moved ; then quickly turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve with sweet sauce separately. The flavouring of this pudding may be varied by substituting for the lemond-rind essence of vanilla or bitter almonds; and it may be made I much richer by using cream; but this is not at all necessary. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. CABINET or BOILED BEEAD- AND - BUTTEB PUDDING, Plain. Ingredients.—2 oz. of raisins, a few thin slices of bread and butter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, \ nutmeg. ^Mode.—Butter a pudding-basin, and line the inside with a layer of raisins that have been previously stoned; then nearly " fiU the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut ofif, and, in another basin, beat the eggs; add to them the milk, sugar, and grated nut- mej<; mix all well together, and pour the whole on to the bread and butter ; let it stand h hour, then tie a floured cloth over it; boil for 1 hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Care must be taken that the basin is quite full before the cloth is tied over. Time.—1 hour. Average coft, 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. CAPE AU LAIT. This is merely very strong coffee added to a large proportion of good hot milk ; about 6 tablespoonfuls of strong coftoo being quite sufficient for a breakfast- cupful of milk. Of the essence which ^ answers admirably for cafe au hit, so much would not be required. This pre- paration is infinitely superior to the weak watery coffee so often served at TSnglish tables. A Uttlo cream mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot bo depended on for richness, improves the taste of the coffee, as also the richness of the beverage. Sufficient.—6 tablespoon- fuls of strong coflee, or 2 tablespoonfuls of the essence, to a breakfast-cupful of milk. CAPE NOIR. This is usually handed round after dinner, and should bo drunk well