398 Philosophy of Housekeeping. loaf, and the pie, when cold, will be ready for use. Let it be reraembered that tho gravy must be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie ; aa, wlieii cold, it should form a firm jolly, and not be the least degree in a liijuid state. Thii jocipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to the sizo of tho pio intended to be made ; but the birds must always bo boned. Truffles, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer ; and to enrich it, lard tho fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is generally called a timhale, and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands ; the crust, besides, being eatable. MEAT PATTIES. Ingrediekts.—The remains of cold veal; to every \ \h. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of veal gravy, ^ tea«poon!ul of minced lemon-peel; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; one tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour ; puff-paste. Mode.—Mince very small the white meat from a cold fillet of veal; weigh it, and for every \ lb. of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put these into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients, stir over the fire for 10 minutes or \ hour, taking care that the mixture does not burn. Koll out some puff-paste about I inch in thickness ; line the pattypans with this. Put upon each a small piece of bread, and cover with another layer of paste ; brush over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a brisk oven for about \ hour. When done, cut a round piece out of the top, and with a small spoon, take out the bread (be particular in not breaking the outside border of the crust), and fill the patties with the mixture. LOBSTEK SALAD. Inobedients.—1 hen lobster, lettuces, endive, small salad (whatever is in season), a little chopped beetroot, 2 hard-boiled eg,;js, a few slices of cucumber. For dressing—4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 do. of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, the yolks of 2 eggs, cayenne and salt to taste, ^ teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. These ingredients should be mixed perfectly smooth, and form a creamy- looking sauce. j/of^e.—Wash the salad, and thoroughly dry it by shaking it in a cloth. Cut up the lettuces and endive, pour the dressing,on them, and lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings from the body of the lobster ; pick the meat from the shell, cut it up into nice square pieces, put half in tho salad, the other half reserve for garnishing. Separate tho yolks from tho whites of 2 hard-boiled eggs ; chop the whites very fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad liMitly on a glass dish, and garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then with the pieces of lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral, and beetroot, placed alternately, and arranged in small separate bunches, so that the colom-s contrast iiiccly.