THE DICTIONAKY OF COOKEHY. 339 Tea-Cakes, to toast I they should bo put in after the butter is j rubbed in. These cakes should be but- ' tared, and eaten hot as soon as baked ; but, when stale, they are very nice split and toasted; or, if dipped in milk, or even water, and covered with a basin in the oven till hot, they will be almost equal to new. Time.—I to h hour. Average cost, lOrf. Sufficient to make 8 tea-cakes. Seasonable at any time. TEA-CAKES, to toast. Cut- each tea-cake into three or four slices, according to its thickness; toast them on both sides before a nice clear fire, and as each slice is done, spread it with butter on toasted,pilethe '^^^^^^ slices one on the tea-cakes. top of the other, cut them into quai-ters, put them on a very hot plate, and send the cakes immediately to table. As they are wanted, send them in hot, one or two at a time, as, if allowed to stand, they spoil, unless kept in a muffin- plate over a basin of boiling water. TEAL, Boast. Ingredients.—TeTi], butter, a little flour. J/ot/e.—Choose fat, plump birds, after the frost has set in, as they are generally better flavoured ; truss them in the same manner as wild duck; roast them before a brisk fire, and keep them well basted. Serve with brown or orange gravy, water-cresses, and a cut lemon. The remains of teal make excellent hash. Time.—From 9 to 15 minutes. Averar/e cost, Is. each; but seldom bought. Suhl- cie>it.-2 for a dish. Seasonahle from October to' February. TEAL. Teal, being of the same character as widgeon and wild duck, may bo treated, m carving, in the same style. TENCH, Matelot of. Ingredients.—^ pint of stock, h pint of port wine, 1 dozen button onions, a few mushrooms, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of mmced parsley, thyme, 1 shalot, 2 ancho- vies, 1 teacupful of stock, flour, 1 dozen oysters, the juice of ^ lemon; the number of tench, according to size. Mode.— Tendrons de Veau, Stewed Scale and clean the tench, cut them into pieces, and lay them in a stewpan; add the stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, herbs, and mace, and simmer gently for ^ hour. Put into another stewpan all the remaining ingredients but the oysters and lemon-juice, and boil slowly for 10 minutes, when add the strained liquor from the tench, and keep stirring it over the fire until somewhat reduced. Rub 'A through a sieve, pour it over the tench with the oysters, which must be pre- viously scalded in their own liquor, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Garnish with croutons. Time. —J hour. Seasonable from October to June. TENCH, Stewed with Wine. Ingredients. — \ pint of stock, ^ pint of Madeira or sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay-leaf, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Clean and crimp the tench, carefully lay it in a stewpan with the stock, wine, salt and pepper, and bay-leaf, let it stew gently for h hour: then take it out, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Strain the liquor, and thicken it with butter and flour kneaded to- gether, and stew for 5 minutes. If not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, add a very little cayenne, and pour over the fish. Garnish with balls of veal forcemeat. Time. —Rather more than ^ hour. Seasonable from October to June. TENDRONS DE VEAU, Stewed (an Entr6e). Ingredients.-The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, white stock, 1 faggot of savom-y herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel. Mode.—Th.Q tendrons or gristles, which are found round the front of a breast of veal, are now veiy fi-c- quently served as an entrdo, and when well dressed, make a nice and favourite dish. Detach the gristles from the bone, and cut them neatly out, so as not to spoil the joint for roasting or stewing. Put them into a stewpan, with sufficient stock to cover them ; add the herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon, and simmer these for nearly, or quite, 4 hours. They should bo stewed until n fork will enter the meat easily. Tako them up, drain them, strain tho gravy, boil it down to a glaze, with which glaza the meat. Dish the te'^dvon-i in a circ!©