20 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. August, Things in Season Tlmrsday.— l. Roast ribs of beef, Yorkshire pudding, French beans and potatoes. 2. Bread-and-butter pudding. Friday.—I. Fried soles and molted butter. 2. Cold beef and salad, lamb cutlets and mashed potatoes. 3. Cau- liflowers and white sauce instead of pudding. Saturday.—1. Stewed beef and vege- tables, with remains of cold beef ; mutton pudding. 2. Macaroni and cheese. Sunday.—1. Salmon pudding. 2. Roast fillet of veal, boiled bacon-cheek garnished with tufts of cauliflowers, French beans and potatoes. 3. Plum tart, boiled custard pudding. Monday.—1. Baked soles. 2. Cold veal and bacon, salad, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Boiled currant pudding. Tuesday.—1. Rice soup. 2. Roast fowls and water-cresses, boiled knuckle of ham, minced veal garnished with crolitone ; vegetables. 3. College pud- ding. Wednesday.—1. Curried fowl with re- mains of cold fowl; dish of rice, stewed rump-steak and vegetables. 2. Plum tart. Thursday.—1. Boiled brisket of beef, carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, and potatoes. 2. Baked bread pudding. Friday.—1. Vegetable soup, made from liquor that beef was boiled in. 2. Cold beef and dressed cucumber, veal cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Fondue. Saturday. — 1. Babble - and - squeak, made from remains of cold beef; cold yeal-and-ham pie, salad. 2. Baked rasp- Dorry pudding. AUGUST, Tilings in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp,[chub, crayfish, crabs, doiy, eels, flounders, grigs, herrings, lobsters, mullet, pike, prawns, salmon, shrimps, skate, soles, sturgeon, thorn- back, trout, turbot. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal, buck venison. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls, green geese, pigeons, plovers, pullets, ►abbits, turkey poults, wboatoars, wild iucks. Oame.—Leverets, grouse, blackcock. Vegetables. Artichokes, asparagus, jeans, carrots, cabbages, cauliflowers, <elery, cresses, endive, lettuces, mush- Bacon, BroUed Bashera of rooms, onions, peas, potatoes, radisles, sea-kale, small salading, sprouts, mx. nips, various kitchen herbs, vegetable marrows. i^rwii.—Currants, figs, filberts, goose- berries, grapes, melons, mulberries, neo. tarines, peaches, pears, pineappleB,pluim raspberries, walnuts. BACON", BoUed, Ingredients.—Bacon ; water. Mode.— As bacon is frequently excessively salt, let it be soaked in warm water for an hour or two previous to dressing it; then pare off the rusty parts, and scrape th-. under- side and rind as clean as possible. Put it into a saucepan of cold wa- BOILED BACOir. ter; let it come gradually to a boil, and as fast as the scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. Let it simmer very gently until it is thoroughly done ; then take it up, strip off the skin, and sprinkle ov^ the bacon a few bread raspings, anol garnish with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. When served alone, young and tender broad beans or green peas are the usual accompanimcMs. Time.—IVo. of bacon, J hour; 2 : , 1.] hour. Average cost, \0d. to Is. per ib, fo'r the primest parts. Sufficient—2 lbs., when served with poultry or veal, suflij cient for 10 pereons. Seasonalle at time. BACOU", Broiled Bashers of. Before purchasing bacon, ascertain I it is perfectly free from rust, which ; easily be detected by its yellow colourt"^ and for broiling, the streaked part of thf > thick flank is generally the most teemed. Cut it into Ihin slices, takel the rind, and broil over a nice clear f ' turn it two or three times, and serve i liot. Should there bo any cold ba left from the previous day, it ansv very well for breakfast, cut into slices and broiled or fried. Time.—3 or'. minutes. Average cost, lOd. to 1.'. lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable a any time. iVoie.—\Vhon the bacon is cut vorj thin, the bUccs may be billed round an'