190 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Mackerel, Baked MACKEREL, Baked. Inijredieiils.—4 miildlinof-sized maoko- rel, a nice dolicato lorcomeat, 3 oz. of butter ; pepper ami salt to taste. Mode. —Clean the tisli, take out the roes, and fill up with forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Flour, and put them in a dish, heads and tails alternately, with the roes ; and, between each layer, put some little pieces of butter, and pepper and salt. Bake for h an hour, and either serve with plain melted butter or a muitre (Pkdlel sauce. Time.—h hour. Average cost for this quantity, ls'\i)d. Seasonable from April to July. Sufficient for 6 jjer- sons. Note.—Baked mackerel maybe dressed in the same way as baked herrings, and may also be stewed in wine. MACKEREL, Boiled. Ingredients.—^ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the inside of the tish thoroughly, and lay it in the kettle with sufficient water to cover it with salt as above ; bring it gradually to boil, skim well, and simmer gently till done ; dish them on a hot napkin, heads and tails alternately, and garnish with fennel. Fennel sauce and plain melted butter are the usual accompaniments to boiled mackerel; but caper or anchovy sauce is sometimes served with it. Time, —After the water boils, 10 minutes; for large mackerel, allow more time. Ave- rage cost, from i.d. Seasonable from April to July. Note.—When variety is desired, fillet the mackerel, boil it, and pour over pars- ley and butter; send some of this, besides, iu a tureen. MACKEREL, Broiled. Ingredients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to bo broiled, but merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and iusides. Open the back, and put in a little pepper, salt, and oil ; broil it over a clear tire, turn it over on both sides, and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh can bo detached from the bone, which will be in about 10 minutes for a small mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work it up in the butter, with pepper and salt to taste, and a equeozo of lemon-juice, and put it in Maigre Soup the buck. Serve before the butter quite melted, with a mailre d'Uulet k in a tureen. Time. —Small iij;:cki 10 minutes. Average cost, fi-om Seasonable from April to July, MACKEREL, Fillets of. Ingredients.—2 large mackerel, 1 butter, 1 small bunch of choppe 1 h';i 3 tablespoonfuls of medium stock, 3 tal spoonfuls of bechamel; salt, cayen and lemon-juice to taste. J/oc/e.— the fish, and fillet it; scald the chop them fine, and put them witk butter and stock into a stewpan. Ll the mackerel, and simmer very gen for 10 minutes ; take them out, and ) them on a hot dish. Dredge in a li! flour, add the other ingredients, g one boil, and pour it over the maci Time.—20 minutes. Average co: this quantity, Is. Qd. Seasonable April to July. Sufficient for 4 pe Note.—Fillets of mackerel ma covered with egg and bread crumb fried of a nice brown. Serve with d'kClel sauce and plain melted but MACKEREL, Pickled. Ingredients.—12 peppercorns, 2 leaves, h pint of vinegar, 4 mao Mode.—Boil the mackerel, and lay in a dish ; take half the liquor they boiled in ; add as much vinegar, p corns, and bay-leaves ; boil for 10 mi and when cold, pour over the fish. —h hour. Average cost, li. Qd. MACKEREL, Potted. Ingredients. —Mackerel, a bl mace, cayenne, salt, and 2 oz. or butter, according to the quan"' mackerel. Mode. —Anj- lemains of mackerel ma^' be potted as follows; it well from the bones, break it into small pieces, and put into a stewpan wi the butter, pounded mace, and other i gredients ; wai-m it thoroughl3', but' not let it boil ; jiress it into potting JK and pour clarified butler over iu MAIGRE SOUP (Le., Soup vn& out Meat). Ingredients. —Q oz. butter, 6 onic sliced, 4 heads of celery, 2 1< small bunch of pai-slcy, 2 hp spinach, 3 pieces of bread cnist, of mace, salt and pepper to i:.