200 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. t Mufflna boiled in, and will mako good white stock, flavoured with vegetables, &c. n. {More Economical.) Itiqredienfs.—A knuckle of veal weigh- ing6 or 6 lbs., 2 cowl.ecls, 2 large onions etuck with cloves, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, salt to taste, 12 peppercorns, 1 glass of sherry, 24 force-meat balls, a little lemon-juice, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the force-meat balls find lemon-juice, in an earthen jar, and stew for 6 hours. Do not open it till cold. When wanted for use, skim off all the fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the meat into inch-and-a- half squares, put it, with the force-meat 1)alls and lemon-juice, into the soup, and «erve. It can be flavoured with a table- epoonful of anchovy, or Harvey's sauce. Time.—6 hours. Average cost, Is. id. per quart. Seasojialle in viinter. Sufficient for 10 persons. MUFFINS. Ingredients.—To every quart of milk allow 1.3 oz. of German yeast, a little salt; flour. Mode.—Warm the milk, add to it the yeast, and mix these well together; put them into a pan, and stir in sufficient flour to make the whole into a dough of rather a soft consistence; cover it over with a cloth, and place it in a warm place to rise, and, when light and nicely risen, divide the dough into pieces, and round them to the proper shape with the hands ; place them in a layer of flour abou', two inches thick, on wooden trays, and lot them rise again : when this is effected, they each will exhibit a serai-globular shape. Then place them carefully on a hot plate or stove, and bake them until they are slightly browned, tiu'ning them when they are done on one side. Muffins are not easily made, and are more generally jiurchased than manufactured at homo. To toast them, divide the edge of the muffin all round, by pulling it opnii to tlio 'depth of about an inch, with the fingers. Tut it on a toasting-fork-, and hold it before a very clear firo until one ■ide is nicely browned, but not burnt; MUFFINS. Mullagatavray Soup turn, and toast it on the other. Do n( toast them too quickly, as, if this I done, the middle of the muffin will n( bo warmed through. When done, divic them by pulling them open; buttc them slightly on both sides, put thei together again, and cut them inf halves : when sufficient are toasted an buttered, pile them on a very hot disl and send them very quickly to tabk Time.—From 20 minutes to .3 hour \ bake them. Sufficient.—Allow 1 muffi to each person. MULBEBRIES, Preserved. Ingredients.—To 2 lbs. of fruit an 1 pint of juice allow 2i lbs. of loaf sugaj* Mode.—Put some of tTie fruit into a ^VfmSR serving pan, and simmer it gently untl • the juice is well drawn. Strain it throu;? 1 a bag, measure it, and to every pir i allow the above proportion of sugar au , fruit. Put the sugar into the preser pan, moisten it with the juice, boil it] skim well, and then add the mulber which should be ripe, but not soft eno to break to a pulp. Let tJiem stan^ the syrup till warm through, then^ them on the fire to boil gently; wi half done, turn them carefully into earthen pan, and let them remain tilltli next day; then boil them as before, an when the syrup is thick, and become firm when cold, put the preserve pots. In making this, care should taken not to break the mulberries may be avoided by very gentle stir and by simmering the fruit verj- slowlj'^ Time.—I hour to extract the juics \ hour to boil the mulberries V time, I hour the second time. able in August and September. MULLAGATAWZSTY SOUP. ' Ingredients.—2 tablespoonfuls of curr [ powder, 6 onions, 1 clove of garuc, 1 oi ; of pounded almonds, a little ' pickle, or man go-juice, to taste : or rabbit; 4 slices of lean bacon; : of medium stock, or, if want^ good, best stock. Mode.—Slice the onions of a nice colour; 1 stewpan with the bacon; cut rabbit or fowl into small join; slightly brown them; put in the onionf, the garlic, and stoc*-- nnd.'sii gently till the meat is U.i.d"'- , skim carefully, and wlicn the muit is < rub the cffhy powder to a smooth bati h