333 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Strawberries, Preserved in Wine STBAWBERKIES, Preserved in Wine. Ingredients. — To every quart bottle allow \ lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; sherry or JIadeira. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in fine weather, and used as soon as picked. Havo ready some per- fectly dry glass bottles, and some nice soft corks or bungs. Pick the stalks from tho strawberries, drop them into the bottles, sprinkling amongst them pounded £ agar in the above proportion, and when the fruit reaches to the neck of the bottle, fill up with sherry or Madeira. Cork the bottles down with new corks, and dip them into melted resin. Season- able.—Make this in June or July. STRAWBEBRIES, to Preserve Whole. Ingredients. — To every lb. of frait allow 1.1 lb. of good loaf sugar, 1 pint of red-currant juice. Mode.—Choose the strawberries not too ripe, of a fine large sort and of a good colour. Pick off the stalks, lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded. Shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed and touch the under-side of the fruit, and let it remain for 1 day. Then have ready the currant-juice, drawn as for red-currant jelly ; boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar, until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be preserved as whole as possible. Straw- berries prepared in this manner are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. Time.—\ hour to 20 mi- nutes to simmer the strawberries in tho syrup. Seasonable in June and July. STBAWBEBBY, Open Tart of, or any other Kind of Preserve. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any kind of jam. Mode.—Butter a tart- pan of the shape shown in the engraving, roll out tho paste to tho thickness of h an inch, and line tho pan with it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake tho tart in a brisk oven from 10 to l.T minutes. Let tho paste cool a littlo; thou till it with preserve, place a Sturgeon, Boast few stars or leaves on it, which hav p been previously cut out of the paste a' ' baked, and tho tart is ready lor tab. By making it in this manner, both th' flavour and colour of the jam are pre - served, which would otherwise be lost: s OPEir-TAET MOULD. ^ were it baked in the oven on the paste ? I' and, besides, so much jam is not re " quired. Timie.—10 to 15 min. Averag ' cosl,Sd. Sufficient.—1 tart for 3 persons ^ P Seasonable at any time. •■ STTJBGEOW, Baked. ; Ingredients. — 1 small sturgeon, sal i and pepper to taste, 1 small bunch c ii herbs, the juice of \ lemon, i lb. o I butter, 1 pint of white wine. Mode.— F Cleanse the fish thoroughly, skin it, an( i split it along the belly without separatin;. i it; have ready a large baking-dish, ii: which lay tho fish, sprinkle over th ; seasoning and herbs very finely minced i and moisten it with tho lemon-juice an( wine. Place the butter in small piece ^ over the whole of the fish, put it in tin oven, and baste frequently; brown i : ^ nicely, and serve with its own gravy Time.—Nearly 1 hour. Average cost, Is to Is. Gd. per lb. Seasonable fi-om Augus i 1 to March. STUBGEON", Boast. Ingredients.— Veal stufiing, buttered! \ paper, the tail-end of a sturgeon. Mode — Cleanse tho fish bono and skin it : make a nice veal stufflpg {see Forcemeats) . and fill it with tho part where the bone; ■ came from ; roll it in buttered paper . bind It up firmly with t.ipo, like a fillei; of veal, and roast it in a Dutch over i before ft clear fire. Serve with good