XT Daily House-work. t is well to piii-chase a week's consumption at once, and hang the articles until n prime condition. DAILY HOUSE-WOBK. 82. The Daily Duties of the House Servants are as follow:— t83. The beds are stripped, and slops emptied in all the rooms. Then bed- aking follows; then the sitting-room not used for breakfast must be swept, iusted, and arranged; and then the routine cleaning of the day must follow, very household has good reasons for each day's work. The following regulation as been thought to be a good guide :— ! Monday—One bedi-oom ; washing. j Tuesday—Spar© room and library. ' Wednesday—Dining-room ; ironing. j Thursday—Mistress's bed and dressing rooms. , Friday—Drawing-room and one bedroom. I Saturday—Plate, stairs, and sundries. 84. The Nurse cleans her own nursery, night nurseiy, and her own bedroom, ie Cook undertakes steps and hall, passages, kitchen, larder, scullery, and wash- buse, and downstairs closets, and, by armJigemeiU with the mistress at time of ing, cleans the dining-room and helps to make the beds. 85. WiNDCW-CLEANiNG is also a matter of special arrangement. The cook .nswers the door" until twelve o'clock, after which hour the housemaid is pposed to be dressed, and should be, if she is quick and clever at her work, e cook should clean her own bedroom, even if shared by the housemaid ; and |e housemaid is bound, by kitchen etiquette, the unspoken tradition of the spit, make the tea at breakfast, to arrange and make tea at the afternoon meal, d to lay the cloth for the kitchen supper. Tbis rule has originated, no doubt, the kindly feeling which prompts those who have no cooking to do to prepare 'e meals for those whose work is almost entirely cooking, and who are, (rtfcjrefore, little disposed to do so for themsolves. jjB86. It is well, when engaging Servants, to mention all the rules that a ptress considers best for the happiness of her household, and these detaiU inot be too much studied by those who hold the reins. A holiday every six 3ks should be given to each servant, and by turns they should be allowed go out on Sunday evenings. Somo families can manage to allow one lid the Sunday morning, the other the Sunday evpt\ing, but this cannot rays be done. The wages should be paid regularly upon quarter-day—the |h March, 21st June, 29th September, and 25th December,—upon which day a nice Christmas-box should bo added to encourage good service promote kindly feelings. It is best to provide tea, sugar, beer, and