8 THE BlCTlONARt OF COOKERY. Apple Pudding lemon, 6 eggs, puff-paste. Mode.—Peel, coro, and cut the apples, as for sauce ; put them into a stewpan, with only just siiflBcient water to prevent thorn from burning, and let them stew until reduced to a pulp. Weigh the pulp, and to every A lb. add the sifted sugar, grated lemon- rind, and G well-beaten eggs. Beat these ingredients well togetlier ; then melt the butter, stir it to the other things, put a border of puff-paste round the dish, and balce for rather more than ^ hour. The butter should not be added until the pudding is ready for the oven. Time.— ^ to I hour. Average cost, Is. lOd. Suffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE PUDDIlSrG-, Baked. Ingredients.—12 large apples, 6 oz. of moist sugar, | lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint of bread crumbs. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples, as for sauce, and boil them until reduced to a pulp ; then add the butter, melted, and the eggs, which should be well whisked. Beat ujj the pudding for 2 or 3 minutes ; butter a pie- dish ; put in a layer of bread crumbs, tunn the apple, and then another laj^er of bread crumbs ; fiake over these a few tiny pieces of butter, and bake for about h hour. A very good economical pudding made be made merely with apples, boiled and sweetened, with the addition of a few strips of lemon-peel. A layer of bread crumbs should be placed above and below the apples, and the pudding baked for ^ hour. Time.—About ^ hour. Aver- age cost, Is. Qd. Sxijjicient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE PUDDING, Baked (Very Good). Ingredients.—5 moderate-sized apples, 2 tablestioonfiils of finely-chopped suet, 3 egKS, 3 tablcspoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Mix the flour to a smooth batter with the milk , add the eggs, whicli should bo well whisked, and put the latter into a •well-buttered pie-dish. Wipe the apjilcs clean, but do not pare them ; cut them in halves, and take out the cores ; lay thoin in the batter, rind uppermost; shako the suet on the top, over winch also grato a little nutmeg; bake in a IQoderate oven for an hour, and cover, Apple Sauce when served, with sifted loaf sugar. This pudding is also very good with the apples pared, sliced, and mixed with the batter. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 9cZ. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. APPLE PUDDING, Boiled. Ingredients.—Suet crust, apples, sugar to taste, 1 small teaspoonful of finely- minced lemon-peel, 2 tablcspoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make a butter or suet crust by either of the given recipes, using for a moderate-sized pudding from I to 1 lb. of flour, with the other ingre- dients in proportion. Butter a basin ^ line it with some paste ; pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin with these; add the sugar, the lemon-peel and juice, and cover with crust; pinch the edges together, flour the cloth, place it over the pudding, tie it securely, and put it into plenty of fast- boiling water ; let it b', il from 2h to 3 hours ; then turn it out of the basin and send to table quickly. Apple puddings may also be boiled in a cloth without a basin; but, when made in this way, must be served without the least delay, as the cmst soon becomes heavy. Apple pudding is a very convenient dish to have when the dinner-hour is rather uncertain, as it does not spoil by being boiled an extra hoiu*; care, however, must be taken to keep it well covered with water all the time, and not to allow it to stop boiling. Time.—From 2h to 3 hours, according to the quality of the apples. Average cost, \0d. Sufficient, made with 1 ib. of flour, for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from August to March ; but the apples become flavour- less and scarco after February, APPLE SAUCE, for Geese, Pork, &c. Ingredients. — 6 good-sized apples, sifted sugar to taste, a piece of buttei- the size of a walnut; water. Mode.—Pare, core, and quarter the apples, and throw them into coid water to preserve their whiteness. Put them in a saucepan, with sufficient water to moisten tliom, and boil till soft enough to pulp. Boat them up, adding suyar to taste, aijd a small ]iicco of butter. This quantity is sufficient for a good-sized tiucen. Time.—According to the apples, about } hour. Average cost, id. Sufficient, this quantity, for a goose or couple of ducki.