378 Philosophy of Housekeeping. FBIED SOLES. iNcmnmENTS.—Two middling-sized soles, hot lard or clarified dripping, eggj and bread-crumbs. Mode.—Skin and cai'efully wash the soles, and out oflf the fins, wipe them vei-j. dry, and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Have readj some fine bread-crumbs and beaten egg; dredge tlio soles with a little fiour brush them over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Put thorn into a deej pan with plenty of clarified dripping or lard (when the expense is not objected to., i.- oil is still better) boiling, so that it may neither scorch tho fish nor make thema sodden. When they arc sufficiently cooked on one side, turn them carefully', ancc brown them on the other : they may be considered ready when a thick smokt rises. Lift them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on a reversed sieve j and soft paper, to absorb the fat. Particular attention should be paid to this, a:' nothing is more disagreeable than greasy fish : this may be always avoided b]. - dressing them in good time, and allowing a few minutes for them to get thoroughb crisp, and free from greasy moisture. Dish them on a hot napkin, garnish witl cut lemon and fried parsley, and send them up to table with shrimp sauce anc; plain melted butter. BROILED MACKEREL. Ingredients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to be broiled, bu merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and inside. Open thi back, and put in a little pepper, salt, and oil; broil it over a clear fire, turn i over on both sides, and also on the back. When sufficiently cooked, the flesh cai be detached from the bone, which will be in about ten minutes for a smal mackerel. Chop a little parsley, work it up in the butter, with pepper and sal. to taste, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and put it in the back. Serve before th .< butter is quite melted, with a mAitre d'hOtel sauce in a tureen. FRIED FILLETED SOLES. Soles for filleting should bo larg*e, as the flesh can be more easily separated froDT ihe bones, and there is less waste. Skin and wash the fish, and raise the mea carefully from the bones, and divide it into nice handsome pieces. The mori ; usual way is to roll the fillets, after dividing each one into two pieces, and eitke i ^ bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Brush ther : over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs; fry them as directed in the fort going recipe, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. When a pretty dis is desired, this is by far tho most elegant mode of dressing soles, as they loo much better than when fried whole. Instead of rolling the fillets, they may b cut into square pieces, and arranged in tho shape ol a pyramid on tho dish.