2i The dictionary op cookeiiy. Barberries, to preserve bunshes of nicely curled parsley, make an exceedingly pretty garnish for supper dishes, particularly for white meats, like boiled fowl h la B<5chamel, the three colours, scarlet, green, and white, con- trasting well, and i)roducing a very good effect. BABBERBIES, to preserve in Buncbes. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, barber- ries. Mode.—Prepare some small pieces of clean white wood, 3 inches long and ^ inoh wide, and tie the fruit on to these in nice bunches. Have ready some clear syrup (see Syrup) ; put in the barbel ries, and simmer them in it for 2 successive days, boiling them for nearly ^ hour each day, and covering them each time with the syrup when cold. When the fruit looks P'^rfectly clear it is suffi- ciently done, aud should be stowed away in pots, with the syrup poured over, or the fruit may be candied. Time.—h hour to simmer each day. Seasonable in'autumn. BABLEY SOUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, \ lb. of pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of water. Mode.—Put in all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 3 hours. Time,—3 hours. Average cost, 2hd. per quart. Seasonable all the year, Gut more suitable for winter. BAELEY-SUGAB, to make. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow ^ pint of water, ^ the white of an egg. Mode.—Put the sugar into a well- tinned saucepan, with the water, and, when the former is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, adding the well-beaten egg before the mixture gets warm, and stir it well together. When it boils, remove the scum as it rises, and keep it boiling until no more appears, and the syrup looks ])erfect]y clear ; then strain if through a iine sieve or muslin bag, and put it back into the saucejian. Boil it a^ain like caramel, until it is brittle, when a little is dropjjed in a basin of cold water: it is tlien sufficiently boiled. Add a little lemon-juice and a few drops of essence of lemon, and let it stand for a minute or two. Have ready a marble slab or largo dihb, rubbed over with salad-oil J pour on it the sugarj and cut Batter Pudding it into strips with a pair of Bcissora these strips should then be twisted, anc the barley-sugar stored away in a verj dry place. It may be formed in|d lozenges or drops, by dropping the sugn in a very small quantity at a time on the oiled slab or dish. Tir/ie.—\ hot Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 6 or i sticks. BABLEY-WATER, to make. ' Ingredients.—2 oz. of pearl barley, quarts of boiling water, 1 pint of cc'. water. Mode.—Wash the barley in col water; put it into a saucepan with tl above proportion of cold water, and whe it has boiled for about ^ hour, strain ol the water, and add the 2 quarts of fresl , boiling water. Boil it until the liquid i i reduced one half; strain it, and it wiJ j be ready for use. It may be fiavourec j with lemon-peel, after being sweetened { or a small piece may be simmered wit! the barley. When the invalid may tak it, a little lemon-juice gives this plei drink in illness a very nice flavour; does also a small quantity of port Time.—To boil until the liquid is redui one half. Sufficient to make 1 quaii o barley-water. BATTEB PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—1^ pint of milk, 4 table spoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs a little salt. Mode.—Mix the flour witi a small quantity of cold milk ; make th remainder hot, and pour it on to the fltnii keeping the mixture well stirred ; add th butter, eggs, and salt; beat the who! well, and put the pudding into a buttcre pie-dish ; bake for J hour, and serve wit sweet sauce, wine sauce, or stewed fruit Baked in small cups, very pretty litti puddings may be made ; they should T' eaten with the same accompaniraent4| above. Time. —^ hour. A verage cost, \ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season ' at any time. BATTEB PUDDING, Baked,' Dried or Fresh Frmt. Ingredients.—li pint of milk, 4 spoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of fi: shredded .suet, I lb. of currants, a pi of salt. Mode.—Mix the milk, flour, _ eggs to a smooth batter; add a Ul salt, the suet, and the currants, wt^ should be well washed, picked, and drifl^*