THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 215 Perch, Boiled iverar/e cost, 6cl. per peck. Sufficient or 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June ;o the end of August. PEKCH, Boiled. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gallon )f water. Mode.—Scale the fish, take )ut the gills and clsan it thoroughly ; lay t in boiling water, salted as above, and limmer gently for 10 minutes. If the ish is very large, longer time must be illowed. Garnish with parsley, and serve vith plain melted butter, or Dutch sauce. J'erch do not preserve so good a flavour vhen stewed as when dressed in any ithcr way. Tivie.—Middling-sized perch, : hour. Seasonable from September to S'^ovember. Note.—Tench may be boiled the same n&y, and served with the same sauces, PEHCH, Fried, Ingredients.—Egg and bread cnimbs, lot lard. Mode.—Scale and clean the ish, brush it over with egg, and cover vith bread crumbs. Have ready some )oiling lard ; put the fish in, and fry a lice brown. Serve with plain melted )utter or anchovy sauce. Time.—10 ninutes. Seasonable from September to i^ovember. Note.—Fry tench in the same way, PEKCH, Stewed with Wiae. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of stock md sherry, 1 bay-leaf, 1 clove of garlic, I small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, salt to aste; thickening of butter and flour, lepper, grated nutmeg, h teaspoonful of mchovy sauce. Mode.—Scale the fish md take out the gills, and clean them ;horoughly; lay them in a stewpan with sufficient stock and sherry just to cover ;hem. Put in the bay-leaf, garlic, pars- ey, cloves, and salt, and simmer till ;ender. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, add a thickening of butter and flour, the pepper, nutmeg, ind the anchovy sauce, and stir it over the fire until somewhat reduced, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.— A.bout 20 minutes. SeasonoMe from Sep- tember to November. PETITES BOUCHEE3. Ingredients.—6 oz. of sweet almonds, \ lb. of sifted sugar, the rind of ^ lemon, the white of 1 egg, puff-paste. Mode.— Pheasant, to Carve Blanch the almonds, and chop them fine ; rub the sugar on the lemon-rind, and pound it in a mortar; mix this with the almonds and the white of the egg. Roll some pufl'-paste out; cut it in any shape that maybe preferred, such as diamonds, rings, ovals, &c., and sjjread the above mixture over the paste. Bake the hon- ch(5es in an oven, not too hot, and serve cold. Time.—\ hour, or rather more. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for ^ lb. of puff-paste. Seasonable at any time. PHEASANT. If this bird be eaten three days after it has been killed, it then has no pecu- liarity of flavour; a pullet would be more relished, and a quail would surpass it in aroma. Kept, however, a proper length of time,—and this can be ascertained by a slight smell and change of colour,— then it becomes a highly-flavoured dish, occupying, so to speak, the middle dis- tance between chicken and venison. It is difficult to define any exact time to "hang" a pheasant; but any one pos- sessed of the instincts of gastronomical science, can at once detect the right moment when a pheasant should betaken down, in the same way as a good cook knows whether a bird should be removed from the spit, or have a turn or two more, PHEASANT, Broiled (a Breakfast or Luncheon Dish). Ingredients.—1 pheasant, a little lard, egg and bread crumbs, salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the legs off at the first joint, and the remainder of the bird into neat pieces; put them into a frying* pan with a little lard, and when browned on both sides, and about half done, take them out and drain them; brush the pieces over with egg, and sprinkle with bread cmmbs with which has been mixed a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Broil them over a moderate fire for about 10 minutes, or rather longer, and serve with mushroom-sauce, sauce piquante, or brown gravy, in which a few game- bones and trimmings have been stewed, rime.—Altogether ^ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. PHEASANT, to Carve, Fixing the fork in the breast, let th« carver cut slices from it in the direction