375 Roast Duck, flesh will be exceedingly dry and tasteless. After the bird is plucked and drawn, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, and truss it in the same manner as partridge. If the head is left ou as shown in the Coloured PJate,.bring it round under the wing, and fix it on the point of the skewaij^ Mode.—Roast it before a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and flour and froth it nicely. Serve with brown gi'avy, a little of which should be poured round the bird, and a tui'een of bread-sauce. Two or three of the pheasant's best tail- feathers are sometimes stuck in the tail as an ornament; but the fashion is not much to be commended, TO FRY SMELTS. Ingredients.—Egg and bread-crumbs, a little flour; boiling lard. 3/ocZe.—Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread-crumbs, and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the fire on a drainer, and servo with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnish. ROAST FOWL, WITH WATERCRESSES. Ingredients.—A fowl, a lai-ge bunch of water-cresses, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, ^ pint of gravy. Mode.—Truss and roast a fowl, taking care that it is nicely frothed and brown. Wash and dry the water-cresses, pick them nicely, and arrange them in a flat layer on a dish. Sprinkle over a little salt and the above proportion of vinegar ; place over those the fowl, and pour over it the gravy, A little gravy should be served in a tureen. When not liked, the vinegar may be omitted. ROAST DUCK. Ingredients.—A duck, sage-and-onion stuffing, a little flour. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose ducks with plump bellies, and with thick and yellowish feet. Truss with the feet on, which should be scalded and the skin peeled off, and then turned up close to the legs. Run a skewer through the middle of each leg, after having drawn them as close as possible to the body, to plump up the breast, passing the same quite through the body. Cut off the head and neck and the pinions at the first joint; bring these close to the sides, twist the feet round, and twist them at the back of the bird. After the duck is stuffed, both ends should be secured with string, so as to keep in the seasoning. Mode.—To ensure ducks being tender, never dress them the same day they are killed ; and if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a etuffmg of sage and onion sufficient for one duck. Put down to a brisk clear fire, 2 C Z