212 TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Mutton, Hoast Neck of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, 2 onions sliced, A pint of water, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the mutton into small chops, and trim off the greater portion of the fat; put the butter into a stew- pan, dredge in a little flour, add the sliced onions, and keep stirring till brown; then put in the meat. When this is quite brown, add the water, and the carrots and turnips, which should be cut into very thin slices; season with pepper and salt, and stew till quite ten- der, which will be in about -J howv. When in season, green peas may be substituted for the carrots and turnips: they should be piled in the centre of the dish, and the chops laid round. Time.—f hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Ad. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August. MUTTON, Roast Neck of. Ingredients.—Neck of mutton ; a little Bait. Mode.—For roasting, choose the middle, or the best end, of the neck of mutton, and if there is a very large pro- portion of fat, trim off some of it, and NECK or MTJTTOir. 1—2, Bed end. 2—3. Scrag, save it for making into suet puddings, which will be found exceedingly good. Let the bones bo cut short, and see that it is properly jointed before it is laid down to the fire, as they will bo more easily separated when they come to table. Place the joint at a nice brisk fire, dredge it with flour, and keep continually bast- ing until done. A few minutes before serving, draw it nearer the fire to acquire a nice colour, sprinkle over it a little salt, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water slightly salted ; strain this over the meat and servo. Kcd-currant jelly may be sent to table with it. Time. —4 lbs. of the neck of mutton, rather more than 1 hf^^.-. Average cost, 8.^d. per lb. Stifficlenl for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Mutton Pudding MUTTON PIE. rCoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold leg, loin, or neck of mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of poun (led mace, 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced savoury herbs; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; 3 or 4 potatoes, 1 teacupful of gravy; crust. Mode.—Cold mutton may be made into very good pies if well seasoned and mixed with a few herbs ; if the leg is used, cut it into very thin slices; if the loin or neck, into thin cutlets. Place some at the bottom of the dish ; season well with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and herbs; then put a layer of potatoes sliced, then more mutton, and so on till the dish is full; add the gravy, cover with a crust, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of an underdone leg of mutton may be converted into a very good family pudding, by cutting the meat into slices, and putting them into a basin lined with a suet crust. It should be seasoned well with pepper, salt, and minced shalot, covered with a crust, and boiled for about three hours. MUTTON PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of the neck or loin of mutton, weighed after being boned ; 2 kidneys, pepper and salt to taste, 2 teacupfuls of gravy or water, 2 table- spoonfuls of minced parsley; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; puff crust. Mode.—Bone the mutton, and cut the meat into steaks all of the same thickness, and leave but very little fat. Cut up the kidneys, and arrange these with the meat neatly in a pie-dish; sprinkle over them the minced parsley and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour in the gravy, and cover with a tolerably good puff crust. Bake for 1^ hour, or rather longer, should the pie be very large, and let the oven be rather brisk. A well-made suet crust may bo used instead of puff cnist, and will be found exceedingly good. Time.—lA hour, or rather longer. Avei-age. cost, 2s. Suffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON PUDDING. Ingredients. —About 2 lbs. of the chump end of the loia of mutton, weighed after