325 DiOTIONAfit OP COOKEHT. Soup, Hegency of very bright stock. Mode.—Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very small. Put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and seasoning. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten them with stock; put them into a tureen and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable in the winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. SOUP, Hegency. Ingredients.—The bones and remains of any cold game such as of pheasants, partridges, &c.; 2 carrots, 2 small onions, 1 head of celery, 1 turnip, \ lb. of pearl barley, the yolks of 3 eggs boiled hard, { pint of cream, salt to taste, 2 quarts of medium or common stock. Mode.— Place the bones or remains of game in the stewpan, with the vegetables sliced ; pour over the stock, and simmer for 2 hours ; skim off all the fat, and strain it. Wash the barley, and boil it in 2 or 3 waters before putting it to the soup ; finish simmering in the soup, and when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of the eggs. "When you have finished pounding, rub it through a clean tammy, add the cream, and salt if necessary; give one boil, and serve very hot, putting in the barley that was taken out first. Time.—2^ houi-s. Average cost, Is. per quart, if made with medium stock, or Qd. per quart, with common stock. Season- able from September to Mai'ch. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, b, la Beine. Ingredients.—1 large fowl, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, the crumb of 1 \ French roll, i pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 quarts of good whito veal stock. Mode.—JioW the fowl gently in the stock till quite tender, which will be in about an hour, or ratlier more; take out the fowl, pull the meat from the bones, and put it into a mortar with the almonds, and pound very fine. When beaten enough, put the meat back in the stock, with the crumb of the rolls, and lot it simmer for an hour; rub it through a tammy, add the sugar, h pint of cream that has boiled, and, if you Soup a la Solferino prefer, cut the crust of the roll into small round pieces, and po'or the soup over it, when you serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 2s. Id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note. — All white soups should ba warmed in a vessel placed in another o/ boiling water, SOUP, h> la Reine (Economical). Ingredients. — Any remains of roast chickens, h teacupful of rice, salt and pepper to taste, 1 quart of stock. Mode. —Take all the white meat and pound it with the rice, which has been slightly cooked, but not too much. When it is all well pounded, dilute with the stock, and pass through a sieve. This soup should neither be too clear nor too thick. Time. —1 hour. Average cost, 'id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—If stock is not at hand, put the chicken-bones in water, with an onion, caiTot, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace, pepper and salt, and stew for 3 hours. SOUP, h la Solferino (Sardinian Recipe). Ingredients.—4 eggs, \ pint of cream, 2 oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, a little flour to thicken, 2 quartjS of bouillon. Mode.—Beat the eggs, put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning; stir in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough;, make it into balls, cither round or egg-shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen, and pour the boiling bouillon over them. Time.— 1 hour. A verage cost, Is. 3d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This recipe was communicated to the Editress by an English gentleman, who was present at the battle of Sol- ferino, on June 24, 1859, and who was requested by some of Victor Emmanuel's troops, on the day before the batttlo, to partake of a portion of their potage. Ho willingly enough consented, and found that these clever campaigners had made a palatable dish from very easily- procured materials. In sending the recipe for insertion in this work, he has. however. Anglicised, and somewhat^ ho thinks, improved it.