THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 88 Cream, Whipped flavour the whole with essence of vanilla, put the mixture into a juf?, and place this ]ug in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the contents with a wooden spoon one way until the mLxture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will bo full of lumps. Take it off the fire; stir in the i singlass, w li i c h should be p roviously VANILLA-CBEAM MOULD. disSolvcd in about | pint of water, and boiled for 2 or 3 minutes ; pour the cream into an oiled mould, put it in a cool place to set, and turn it out carefully on a dish. In- stead of using the essence of vanilla, a pod may be boiled in the milk until the flavour is well extracted. A pod, or a pod and a half, will be found suf- ficient for the above proportion of in- gredients. Time,—About 10 minutes to Btir the mixture. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 2s. M. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. CREAM, "Whipped, for putting on Trifles, serving in Glasses, &c. Ingredients.—To every pint of cream allow 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 glass of sherry or any kind of sweet white wine, the rind of h lemon, the white of 1 egg. Mode.—Rub the sugar on the lemon- rind, and pound it in a mortar until quite fine, and beat up the white of the egg until quite stiff ; put the cream into a largo bowl, with the sugar, wine, and beaten egg, and whip it to a froth; as fast a.s the froth rises take it off with a PASTRT-LBAF. skimmer, and p\it it on a sieve to drain in a cool place. This should bo made the day before it is wanted, as the whip is ^hen so much firmer. The cream should ie whipped in a cool place, and in sum- Crust, Common mer over ice, if it is obtainable. A jjlaii whipped cream may be served on a glas: dish, and garnished with strips of angc lica, or pastry-leaves, or pieces of bnght coloured jelly : it makes a very prett,' i addition to the supper-table. Tine.-- About 1 hour to whip the cream. A verag^ cost, with cream at \s. per pint, 1*. Sufficient for 1 dish or 1 trifle. Seutonabi at any time. CRUMPETS. These are made in the same manner am muffins, only, in making the mixture let it be more like batter than dough Let it rise for about h hour; pour it int( iron rings, which should bo ready on i hot-plate; bake them, and when one sid( appears done, turn them quickly on tht j other. To toast diem, have ready a ven bright clear fire; put the crumpet on i j toasting-fork, and hold it before the fire-, not too close, until it is nicely brown or one side, but do not allow it to blacken turn it, and brown the other side; thei spread it with good butter, cut it in half and, when all are done, pile them on £ hot dish, and send them quickly to table. Muffins and crumpets should always ha i served on separate dishes, and botlh toasted and served as expeditiously ar i possible. Time.—From 10 to 15minutc! to bake them. Svfficient.—AUow 2 crum pets to each person. CRUST, Cutter, for Boiled Pudi dings. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour a! low 6 oz. of butter, h pint of water; Mode.—Wiih a knife, work the flour t( a smooth paste with .3 pint of water ; rol the crust out rather thin ; place thci butter over it in small pieces, dredpc' lightly over it some flour, and fold tht paste over; repeat the rolling once more, and the crust will be ready for use. 11' may bo enriched by adding anothen 2 oz. of butter ; but, for ordinary pur- poses, the above quantity will bo found quite sufficient. Average cost, 6d. per lb. CRUST, Common, for Raised Pies." Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al-i low h pint of water, Ih oz. of butter,- l.\ oz. of lard, ^ sultspoonful of salt. Mode.—Put into a saucepan the water ; when it boils, add the butter and lard,'■ and when these are melted, make a hol6>