THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 13 Apricot Pudding presorving-pan. Lot thcso simmer very gently until clear ; take out the pieces of apricot singly as they become so, and, as (ast as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Put the apricots into small jars, pour over them the syrup and kernels, cover the jam with pieces of paper dipped in the purest salad-oil, and stretch over the top of the jars tissue paper, cut about 2 inches larger and brushed over with the white of an egg: when dry, it will be perfectly hard and air-tight. Time.—12 hours, sprinkled with sugar; about J hour to boil the jam. Average cost.—When cheap, apricots may be purchased for preserving at aboiit Is. 6a!. per gallon. Sufficient.—10 lbs. of fruit for 12 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in August or September. APRICOT PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—12 large apricots, ^ pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Make the milk boiling hot, and pour it on to the bread crumbs; when half cold, add the sugar, the well-whisked yolks of the eggs, and the sherry. Divide the apricots in half, Bcald them until they are soft, and break them up with a spoon, adding a few of the kernels, which should be well pounded in a mortar; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together, put a border of paste round the dibh, fill with the mix- ture, and bake the pudding from h to hour. Tivie.—^ to f hour. Average cost, in full seaso'n, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October. APHICOT TART. Ingredients.—12 or 14 apricots, sugar to taste, pufF-pasto or short crust. ./l/o(?(?.—Break the apricots in half, take out the stones, and put them into a pie- dish, in the centre of which place a very email cup or jar, bottom uppermost; sweeten with good moist sugar, but add no water. Liuo the edge of the dish with paste, put on the cover, and ornament the pie in any of the usual modes. Bake from i to ^ hour, according to size ; and if puff-pasto is used, glaze it about 10 minutes beforo the pie is done, and put it into the oven again to set the glaze. Short crust merely requires a little sifted Kligtir sprinkled over it bpfovo being scnl; Apricots, Flanc of to table. Green apricots make very good tiirts, but they should be boiled with a little sugar and water beforo they aro covered with the crust. Time.—h to ^ hour. Average cost, in full season. Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October; green ones rather earlier. APRICOTS, Compote of (anelegant Dish). Ingredients.—k pint of syrup («< Syrup), 12 green apricots. Mode.— Make the syrup by the given recipe, and, when it is ready, put in the apricots whilst the syrup is boiling. Simmer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break; take them out carefully, arrange them on a glass dish, let the sj'rup cool a Uttle, pour it over the' apricots, and, when cold, serve. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the apricots. Average cost, 9d. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July, with green apricots. APRICOTS, Flanc of, or Compote of Apricots in a Raised Crust (Sweet Entremets). Ingredients.—| lb. of short crust {see Crust), from 9 to 12 good-sized apricots, f pint of water, h lb. of sugar. Mode.— Make a short crust by the given recipe, and line a mould with it. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes; halve the apricots, take out the stones, and simmer them in the syrup until ten- der ; watch them carefully, and take them up, for fear they should break. Arrargo them neatly in the flanc or case; boil the syrup until reduced to a jelly; pour it over the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. Greengages, plums of all kinds, peaches, &c., may be done in the same manner, as also currants, raspberries, gooseberries, strawberries, &c. ; but with the last-named fruits, a little currant- juice added to them will bo found an improvement. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the flanc. from 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the npricots. Average cost, is. Gd. Sufficidit for 1 entremets or side-dish. Scasonalle in July, August, and September. The pretty appearance of this dish de- pends on the fruit being whole ; as each apricot is done, it should be taken out of the Bj rup immediately.