THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERi, 118 February—Bills of Faxe Second Course. w o Braised Capon. Boiled Ham, guruished. -a < o )iled Fowls at White Sauce. ^1- ^ ft ra "-1 " re 3 CO 3 Vase of ricwers. —. re M • re Pat6 Chaud. Haunch of Mutton. m Entries. o Lark Pudding, .a u o" s. a p Vase of Flowers. s de Perd ties. Fricasseed Chicken. •u O Third Course. D 01? CI a Ducklings, removed hy Iced Pudding. ? Coffee Cream, a TO <9 13 <J Vase of ^^ Flowers. b C3 o Blancmange. 5 Partridges, removed by Cabinet Pudding. ® a Dessert and Ices. Dinner for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup h, la reino; clear gravy soup; brill and lobster sauce; fried smelts. Entrees.—Lobster rissoles; beef palates; pork cutlets h, la soubise; grill- ed mushrooms. Second Course.—Braised turkey ; haunch of mutton; boiled capon and oysters; tongue, garnished with tufts of broccoli; vegetables and salads. Third Course. — Wild ducks; plovers; orange jolly; clear jelly; Charlotte Russe; Nesselrode pudding; giUeau de riz ; sea- hole i maids of honour; dessert and ices. February—Bills of Fare - /n. Dinner for 10 persons. First Course.—Palestine soup ; J Dory, with Dutch sauce; red rnu with sauce G6iioiso. EiUrees.—Sw bread cutlets, with poivraile sauce ; \ au l{(?chamel. Second Course.— li< saddle of mutton; boiled capon oysters; boiled tongue, garnished . Brussels sprouts. Third Course.—(.'. '" nea-fowls ; ducklings; pain de rhuba, _ orange jelly ; strawberry cream ; chew ^ cakes; almond pudding; fig puddLj dessert and ices. i. T': Dinner for 8 persons. First Course.—Mock turtle soup ; lets of turbot h la crSme ; fried fille soles and anchovy sauce. Entree. Larded fillets of rabbits; tendrons veau with pur^e of tomatoes. Sec^ * Course.—Stewed rump of beef k la Jas nfere ; roast fowls ; boiled ham. TlH Course.—Roast pigeons or larks; r- barb tartlets; meringues; clear jel cream ; ice pudding; souffle ; des; and ices. Dinners for 6 persons. First Course.—Rice soup ; red mul with Gfinoise sauce; fried sme Entrees.—Fowl pudding ; sweetbrej Second Course.—Roast turkey and f sages; boiled leg of pork; pease piiddi Third Course.—Lemon jelly ; Chark ^ la vanille; maids of honour; pli pudding, removed by ice puddii dessert. First Course.— Spring soup; boi turbot and lobster sauce. Entria Fricasseed rabbit; oyster patties. Sec\ Course.—Boiled round of beef and u: j row-bones; roast fowls, garnished w« water-cresses and rolled bacon ; vecrc bles. Third Course.—SLirrow puddii cheesecakes; tartlets of greengage ja lemon cream ; rhubarb tart; dessert. First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; fr whitings ; stewed eels. Entrees.—Poi h, la Marengo ; breast of veal stufled f rolled. Second Course. — Hoast leg pork and apple sauce ; boiled capon f oysters; tongue, garnished with tuft.' broccoli. Third Cottrse.—\\i\d dut;] lobster salad ; Charlotte aux pomnn pain do rhubai"b ; vanilla cream; oral ■ jelly; 4essort.