THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 357 Veal, Koast Loin ©f cut small, or cut some cutlets from it, that it may be just large enough to be eaten the same day it is dressed, as cold boiled veal is not a particularly tempting dish. Break the shank-bone, wash it clean, and put the meat into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it. Let it gi-adually come to a boil, put in the salt, and remove the scum as fast as it rises. When it has simmered gently for KNUCKLE OF VEAL. about I hour, add the remaining ingre- dients, and stew the whole gently for 2| hours. Put the meat into a deep dish, pour over it the rice, &c., and send boiled bacon, and a tiireen of parsley and butter to table with it. Time.—A. knuckle of veal weighing 6 lbs., 3 hours' gentle stewing. Average cost, 5d. to 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from March to October. Note. — Macaroni, instead of rice, boiled with the veal, will be found good; or the rice and macaroni may be omitted, and the veal sent to table smothered in parsley and butter. VEAL, Hoast Loin of. Ingredients. — Veal; melted butter. Mode. — Paper the kidney fat; roll in and skewer the flap, which makes the joint a good shape ; dredge it well with flour, and put it down to a bright fire. Should the loin be very large, skewer the kidney back for a time to roast thoroughly. Keep it well basted, and a short time before serving, remove the paper from the k\dney, and allow it to acquire a nice brown colour, but it should not be burnt. Have ready somo melted butter, put it into the dripping-pan after it is emptied of its contents, pour it over Veal, to Carve Loin of the veal, and serve. Garnrsh the dish with slices of lemon and forcemeat balls, and send to table with it boiled bacon, ham, pickled pork, or pig's cheek. Time. —A large loin, 3 hours. Average cost, Qld. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Note.—A piece of toast should bo placed under the kidneys when the veal is dished. VEAL, Loin of, au Bechamel (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Loin of veal, ^ teaspoon- ful of minced lemoa-peel, rather more than I pint of bechamel or white sauce. Mode.—A loin of veal which has come from table with very little taken off, answers well for this dish. Cut off the meat from the inside, mince it, and mix with it some minced lemon-peel; put it into sufficient bechamel to warm it through. In the mean time, wrap the joint in buttered paper, and place it in the oven to warm. When thoroughly hot, dish the mince, place the loin above it, and pour over the remainder of the bechamel. Time.—1^ hour to warm the meat in the oven. Seasonahle from March to October. VEAL, Loin of, a la Daube. Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat, a few slices of bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, h teaspoonful of whole white pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. Mode.—Cni off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone ; fill the cavity with force- meat, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bones and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. _ Add the herbs, mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water; cover the pan with a closely-fitting lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out the bacon, herbs, and onions; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to a glazo, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrel sauce. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 9d. pet lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Season- able from March to October. VEAL, to Carve Loin of. As is the case with a loin of mutton, the careful jointing of ^ Xoin of veal is