THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEUY. 5 Apple Jelly- apples to be put in the oven over-nigbt, and left till morning ; rather more than J hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.—This should be made in Septembor, October, or November. APPLE JELLT. Ingredients.—Apples, water; to every pint of syrup allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the apples into pieces, remove the cores, and put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil for an hour; then drain the syrup from them through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice ; to every pint allow ^ lb. of loaf sugai-, and boil these together for J hour, removing every particle of scum as it rises, and keeping the jelly well stirred, that it may not burn. A little lemon-rind may be boiled with the apples, and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice may be put in the jelly just before it is done, when the flavour is liked. This jelly may be ornamented with preserved greengages, or any other preserved fruit, and will turn out very prettily for dessert. It should be stored away in small pots. Tivie.—l hour to boil the fruit and water; § hour to boil the juice with the sugar. Average cost, for 6 lbs. of apples, with the other in- gredients in proportion, 3*. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonable.— Make this in September, October, or November. APPLE JELLY, Clear, for imme- diate Eating. Jngrgd{erd».—2 dozen email apples, 1^ pint of spring-water; to every pint of juice allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar, h oz. of ismglass, the rind of ^ lemon. Mode.— Pare, core, and cut the apples into quarters, and boil them, with the lemon- peel, until tender ; then strain off the apples, and run the juice through a jelly- bag ; put the strained juice, with the Bugar and isinglass, which has been pre- T'iously boiled in }, pint of water, into a lined saucepan or preserving-pan ; boil all together for about i hour, and put the jelly into moulds. When this jelly is clear, and turned out well, it makes a pretty addition to the suppor-table, with e littlo custard or whipped cream round Apple Pudding it: a littlo lemon-juice improves the flavour, but it is apt to render the jelly muddy and thick. If required to bo kept any length of time, rather a larger pro- portion of sugar must bo used. Time.— About 1 hour to boil the apples ; t, hour the jelly. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for li-pint mould. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE JELLY, Thick, or Marma. lade, for Entremets or Dessert Dishes. Ingredients.—Apples ; to every lb. of pulp allow ^ Ib. of sugar, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel. Mode.—Peel, core, and boil the apples with only suf- ficient water to prevent them from burn- ing ; beat them to a pulp, and to every lb. of pulp allow the above proportion of sugar in lumps. Dip the lumps into APPLB JBLLT, STUCK WITH ALMONDS. water; put these into a saucepan, and boil till the syrup is thick and can be well skimmed; then add this syrup to the apple pulp, with the minced lemon- peel, and stir it over a quick fire for about 20 minutes, or till the apples cease to stick to the bottom of the pan. The jelly is then done, and may be poured into moulds which have been previously dipped in water, when it will turn out nicoly for dessert or a side dish ; for the latter, a little custard should be pouied round, and it should be gar- nished with strips of citron or stuck with blanched almonds. Tmc—From h to i hour to reduce the apples to a pulp ; 2^ minutes to boil after the sugar is added. Sufficient.—l^Vo. of apple pulp suflicient for a small mould. Seasonable from August to March ; but is best and cheapest in September, October, or November. APPLE PUDDING, Rich Baked. Ingredients.—}-, lb. apple pulp, }, lb. of loaf sugar, G oz.'of butter, tho rind of 1