151 THE DICTIONAUY 01" COOKERY. Haddock, Baked each gallon of water. il/ocZe.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and cut off the fius ; have roady some boiling water, with salt in the above proportion ; put the fish in, and simmer very gently for ^ hour. Parsley and butter, or anchovy sauce, should be served with it. Time.—ii hour. Avei-aqecost.—Seldom bought. Seasonalle from October to March, but in perfection in October. Sufficient—A middling-sized tne for two persons. ^^o^e.—This fish is frequently stuffed *ith forcemeat, and baked. HADDOCK, Baked. ' Ingredients.—A nice forcemeat, butter to tasie, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode. — Scale.and clean the fish, without cutting it open much ; put in a nice dehcate forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Brush it over with etrg, sprinkle over bread- crumbs, and baste frequently with but- ter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and serve with a nice brown gravy, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. The egg and bread-crumbs can be omitted, and pieces of butter placed over the fish. Tme.—Large haddock, ^ lOur ; moderate size, \ hour. Seasonable from August to February. Average cost, from 9c/. upwards. Note —Haddocks may be filleted, rub- ied over with egg and bread-crumbs, md fried a nice brown ; garnish with erisped parsley. HADDOCE:, Boiled. Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover ;be fish; \ lb. of salt to each gallon of rater. Mode.—Scrape the fish, takeout ;he inside, wash it thoroughly, and lay it n a kettle, with enough water to cover it, ind salt in the above proportion. Simmer fently from 15 to iiO minutes, or rather nore, should the fi.«h be very large. For small haddocks, fasten the tails in their nouths, and put them into boiling water. .0 to 15 minutes will cook them. Serve rith plain melted butter,or anchovy sauce. Time.—Large haddock, i hour; small, \ lOur, or rather less. A verage cost, from '(2. upwards. Seasonable from August to i'ebruary. BhADDOCK, Dried. H Dried haddock should bo gradually Brwmed through, either before or over a H{ce clear fire. Rub a littlo piece of but- Hnr over, just before sending it to table. Ham, Pried HADDOCK, Dried. Ingredients.—1 large thick haddock, J bay-leaves, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley, a little butter and pepper ; boiling water. Alode. —Cut up the haddock into square pieces, make a basin hot by means of hot water, which pour out. Lay in the fish, with the bay-leaves and herbs; cover with boiling water ; put a plate over to keep ; in the steam, and let it remain for 10 minutes. Take out the slices, put them in a hot dish, rub over with butter and pepper, and serve. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable at any time, but best in winter. HAM OMELET (a delicious Break- fast Dish). Ingredients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, ^ saltspoonful of pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ham. Mode.—Mince the ham very finely, without any fat, and fry it for 2 minutes in a little butter; thea make the batter for the omelet, stir in the ham, and proceed as in the case of a plain omelet. Do not add any salt to the batter, as the ham is usually suffi- ciently salt to impart a flavour to the omelet. Good lean bacon, or tongue, answers equally well for this dish ; but they must also be slightly cooked pre- viously to mixing them with the batter. Serve very hot and quickly, without gravy. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HAM, PRIED, AND EGGS (a Breakfast Dish). Ingredients. — Ham ; eggs. Mode.— Cut the ham into slices, and take car© that they are of the same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if the ham should be particularly hard and salt, it will be found an improvement to soak it for about 10 minutes in hot water, and then dry it in a cloth. Put it into a cold frying-pan, set it over the fire, and turn the slices 3 or 4 times whilst they are cooking. When done, place them on a dish, which should be kept hot in front of the fire during the time the eggs are being poached. Poach the eggs, slip them on to the slices of ham, and serve quickly. Time.—7 or 8 minutes to broil the ham. A vero.ge cost, 8d. to Is. per lb. by the whole luvm. (S#t*e/t<.—Allow 2