TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 46 Bread-making In the patent process, the dough is mixed in a great iron ball, inside which is a system of paddles, perpetually turn- ing, and doing the kneading part of the business. Into this globe the flour is dropped till it is full, and then the com- mon atmospheric air is pumped out, and the pure gas turned on. The gas is fol- lowed by the water, which has been aerated for tho purpose, and then begins the churning or kneading part of the business. Of course, it is not long before we have the dough, and very " light" and nice it looks. This is caught in tins, and passed on to the floor of the oven, which is an endless floor, moving slowly through the fire. Done to a turn, the loaves emerge at the other end of the apartment,—and the Aerated Bread is made. It may be added, that it is a good plan to change one's baker from time to time, and so secure a change in the quality of the bread that is eaten. Mixed Beeads. —Rye bread is hard of digestion, and requires longer and slower baking than wheaten bread. It is better when made with leaven of wheaten flour rather than yeast, and turns out lighter. It should not be eaten till two days old. It will keep a long time. A good bread may be made by mixing rye-flour, wheat-flour, and rice-paste, in equal proportions; also by mixing rye, wheat, and barley. In Norway, it is said that they only bake their barley bread once a yeai", such is its "keeping" quaUty. Indian-corn flour mixed with wheat- flour (half with half) makes a nice bread, but it is not considered very digestible, though it keeps well. Rice cannot be made into bread, nor can potatoes; but one-third potato-flour to threo-fourths wheaten flour makes a tolerably good loaf. A very good bread, bet.ter than the ordinary sort, and of a delicious flavour, is said to be produced by adopting the following recipe : — Take ten parts of wheat-flour, five parts of potato-flour, one part of rico-pasto ; knead together, add the yeast, and bake as usual. This is, of course, cheaper than wheaten bread. Flour, when freshly ground, is too glu- tinous to make good bread, and should therefore not be used immediately, but Bhould be kept dry for a few weeks, and Btirred occasionally imtil it becomes Bread-making dry, and crumbles easily between the fingers. Flour should be perfectly dry before being used for bread or cakes; if at all damp, the preparation is sure to bo heavy. Before mixing it with tho other ingredients, it is a good plan to place it for an hour or two before tho fire, until it feels warm and dry. Yeast from home-brewed beer is gene- rally preferred to any other: it is very bitter, and on that account should bo well washed, and put away until tho thick mass settles. If it still continues bitter, the process should be repeated ; and, before being used, all the water floating at the top must be poured ofl^. German yeast is now very much used, and should be moistened, and thoroughly mixed with the milk or water with which the bread is to be made. The following observations are ex- tracted from a valuable work on Bread- making, and will bo found very useful to our readers:— The fii-st thing required for making wholesome bread is the utmost cleanU- ness; the next is the soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients used for it; and, in addition to these, there must be attention and care through tho whole process. An almost certain way of spoiling dough is to leave it half-made, and to allow it to become cold before it is finished. The other most common causes of failure are using yeast which is no longer sweet, or which has been frozen, or has had hot liquid poured over it. Too small a proportion of yeast, or in- suificient time allowed for tho dough to rise, will cause the bread to be heavy. Heavy bread will also most likely be tho result of making the dough very hard, and letting it become quite cold, particularly in wmter. If either tho sponge or the dough bo permitted to overwork itself, that is to say, it the mixing and kneading be ne- glected when it has reached the proper point for either, sour bread will probably bo tho consequence in warm weather, and bad bread in any. Tho g:oodness will also be endangered by placing it so near the fire as to make any part of it hot, instead of maintaining the gentle and equal degree of heat required ior its dae fermentation. Nils, or Butter.—Milk which is not