a?HE DlCTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 191 Maize, Boiled of 2 esgs, 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, arts of water. Mode.—Melt the in a stewpan, and put in the onions ew gently for 3 or 4 minutes; then the celery, spinach, lettuces, and ey, cut suicall. Stir the ingredients lor 10 minutes. Now put in the ■, bread, seasoning, and mace. Boil y for Ik hour, and, at the moment rving, beat in the yolks of the eggs he vinegar, but do not let it boil, or iggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. ffe cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable 0 year. Sufficient for 8 persons, :ZE, Boiled. yredients.—The ears of young and Indian wheat; to every ^ gallon ter allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of Mode. — This vegetable, which s one of the most delicious dishes ht to table, is unfortunately very seen in Britain ; and we wonder in the gardens of the wealthy, it is variably cultivated. Our sun, it is possesses hardly power sufficient en maize; but, with well-prepared d, and in a favourable position, it be sufficiently advanced by the ning of autumn to serve as a vege- The outside sheath being taken d the waving fibres removed, let ars bo placed in boiling water, they should remain for about 25 es (a longer time may be necessary r^er ears than ordinary); and, sufficiently boiled and well drained, may be sent to table whole, aud piece of toast underneath them, d butter should be served with them. — 25 to 35 minutes. Average -Seldom bought. Sufficient 1 ear lor erson. Seasonable in autumn. jT wine. redients.—5 gallons of water, 28 lbs. ar, 6 quarts of sweet-wort, 6 quarts , 3 lbs. of raisins, k lb. of candy, 1 f brandy. Mode.—Boil the sugar ater together for 10 minutes; skim , aud put the liquor into a conve- sized pan or tub. Allow it to cool; nix it with the sweet-wort and tun, stand for 3 days, then put it into a ; here it will work or ferment for ir three days or more ; then bung 1 ca.sk, and keep it undisturbed (or 3 months. After this, add the I (whole), the candy, and brandy March—Bills of Pare and, in 6 months' time, bottle the wine off. Those who do not brew, may pro- cure the sweet-wort and tun from any brewer. Sweet-wort is the liquor that leaves the mash of malt before it is boiled with the hops ; tun is the new beer after the whole of the brewing operation has been completed. Time.—ToXie boiled 10 minutes ; to stand 3 days after mix- ing ; to ferment 3 days; to remain in the cask 2 months before the raisins are added; bottle 6 months after. Season- able.—Make this in March or October. MANNA KROtrP PUDDING. Ingredients. — 3 tablespoonfuls of manna kroup, 12 bitter almonds, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 3 eggs. Mode.— Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar; mix them with the manna kroup ; pour over these a pint of boiling milk, and let them steep for about i hour. When nearly cold, add sugar and the well-beaten eggs ; mix all well toge- ther; put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake for k hour. Time.—^ hour. Average cost, M. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MARCH-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for IS persons. First Course. n P. Turtle or Jlock Turtle Soup, rem.'ved by Salmon and dressed Cuuuiuber, Vaae of Flowers. Sprinp; Soup, removed by Boiled Turbot and Lobster Sauce. o Enti ■ees. I—. a Fricasseed Chicken, Vase of Flowers, larded Sweetbreads a o o bo <o p. S o