THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 141 ;o Goose, Boast, to Carve irirly at both ends by passing the rump ^hrough the hole made in the skin, and ;ho other end by tying the skin of the leck to the back: by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down .0 a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and ■oast from H to 2 hours, according ,0 the size. Remove the .skewers, and icrvo with a tureen of good gra\'y, and )ne of well-made apple sauce. Should a rery bighly-flavoiued seasoning be pre- "erred, tiie onions should not bo parboiled, Dut minced raw : of the two methods the nild seasoning is far superior. A ragoCit, )r pie, should be made of the giblets, or ;he3' may be stewed down to make gravy. 3e cai-eful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be .polled by coming ttattunod to tablo. is this is rather a troublesome joint to ;arve, a lavffe quantity of gravy should ot be poured mimd the goose, but sent a tureen. Time.—A large goose, 1^ a moderate-sized one, l,j to 1^ Seasonable fi-om September to Jarch ; but in perfection from Michael- oas to Christmas. Average cost, 5s. 6d. lach. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Note.—A teaspoonful of made mustard, saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of ayenne, mixed with a glass of port wine, re sometimes poured into the goose by slit made in the apron. This sauce is y many considered an improvement. OOSE, Hoast, to Carve. It would not be fair to say that this ish bodes a great deal of happiness to n inexperienced carver, especially if lere is a large party to servo, and the ices off the breast should not suffice to atisfy the desires and cravings of many holcsomo ai)petites, produced, may bo, y the various sports in vogue at Michael- las and Christmas. The beginning of le task, however, is not in any way dif- csult. Evenly-cut slice?, not too thick rtoo thin, should be carved from the reast m the direction of the lino from to 6 ; after the first slice has been cut, n lour lour Goose Stuflang BOAST OOOSE. hole should bo mado with the knife in 10 part called tho apron, passing it round the line as indicated by the figures 1, 1, 1 ; hero the stuffing is located, and. some of this should be served on each plate, unless it is discovered that it is not agrceablo to the taste of some one guest. If tho carver manages cleverly, he will bo able to cut a very large num- ber of fine slices off the breast, and the more so if he commences close down by the wing, and carves upwards towards the ridge of the breastbone. As many slices as can be taken from the breast being carved, the wings should bo cut off, and the same process as de- scribed in carving boiled fowl is made use of in this in- stance, only more dexterity and greater force will most probably be required. The shape of the leg, when disengaged from the body of the goose, should be like that shown in the accompany- ing engraving. It will be necessary, perhaps, iu taking off the leg, to turn tho goose on its side, and thei., pressing down the small end of tho leg, the knife should be passed under it from the top quite down to the joint; tho leg heino- now turned back by tho fork, the knite must cut through tho joint, loosening the thighbone from its socket. The merry- thought, which in a goose is not so large as might be expected, is disengaged m the same way as that of a fowl—by pass- ing tho knife under it, and pressing it backwards towards the neck. The neck- bones, of which wo give a cut, are freed by the same process as are those of a fowl; and tho same may be said of all the other parts of this bird. The bre ist of a goose is tho part most esteemed ; all parts, however, are good, and full of juicy flavour. GOOSE STUFFING, Soyer's Ee- cipe for. Tako 4 apples peeled and cored, 4 onions, 4 leaves of sago, and 4 leaves of lemon thymo not broken, and boil them in a stcwpan with sufficient water to cover them; when done, pulp thorn tluoucU a 1.1:0, WING. AND NECK- BONE OP GOOSE.