51 THE DrCTIONAEY OI' COOKERY. Bullock's Heart, to Dress a gether, h hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold beef, 3cZ. Seasonable at any time. BTTIiLOCK S HEAKT, to Dress a. Ingredients.—1 heart, stuffing of veal forcemeat. Mode.—Put the heart into warm water to soak for 2 hours; then wipe it well with a cloth, and, after cutting off the lobes, stuff the inside with Ldghly-seasoned forcemeat. Fasten it n, by means of a needle and coarse thread ; tie the heart up in paper, and let it before a good fire, being very par- ticular to keep it well basted, or it will 3at dry, there being very little of its own at. Two or three minutes before dishing ■emove the paper, baste well, and serve ith good gravy and red-cuiTant jelly or nelted butter. If the heart is very large, t will require 2 hours, and, covered with k caul, may be baked as well as roasted. Time.—Large heart, 2 hours. Average ost, 2s. 6d. Sufficieiit for 6 or 8 persons. 'kasonahle all the year. Note.—This is an excellent family dish, 3 very savoury, and, though not seen at lany good tables, may be recommended ar its cheapness and economy. rs, Light. Ingredients.—\ teaspoonful of tartaric cid, ^ teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, lb. of flour, 2oz. of butter, 2 oz. of loaf agar, \ lb. of currants or raisins,—when jked, a few caraway seeds, h pint of cold lew milk, 1 egg. Mode.—Rub the tar- trio acid, soda, and flour all together trough a hair sieve; work the butter Tito tiie flour J add the sugar, cuirants, BtTKS. hd caraway seeds, when the flavour of ko latter is liked. Mix all these ingre- Hents well together ; make a hole in the iddle of the flour, and pour in the milk, xed with the egg, which should be 11 beaten; mix quickly, and set the igh, with a fork, on baking-tins, and ke the buns for about 20 minutes, lis mixture makes a very good cake, id if put into a tin, should bo baked IJ ■nr. The same quantity of flour, soda, il tartaric acid, with J pint of milk and little salt, will make either bread or Butter, Clarified teacakes, if wanted quickly. _ Time.—20 minutes for the buns; if made into a cake, 1^ hour. Sufficient to make about 12 buns. BUJSrS, Plain. Ingredients.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of good butter, I lb. of sugar, 1 egg, nearly I pint of milk, 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, a few drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Warm the butter, without oiling it; beat it with a wooden spoon; stir the flour in gradually with the sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Make the milk lukewarm, beat up with it the yolk of the egg and the essence of lemon, and stir these to the flour, &c. Add the baking-powder, beat the dough well for about 10 minutes, divide it into 24 pieces, put them into buttered tins or cups, and bake in a brisk oven from 20 to 30 mv nutes. Time.—20 to 30 minutes. Aver- age cost, Is. Sufficient to make 12 buns. Seasonable at any time. BUlSrS, Victoria. Ingredients. — 2 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 egg, 1^ oz. of ground rice, 2 oz. of butter, 1^ oz. of currants, a few thin slices of candied-peel, flour. Mode. — Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredients both together ; beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and candied-peel, and as much flour as will make it of such a consistency that it may be rolled into 7 or 8 balls. Place these on a buttered tin, and bake them for | to f hour. They should bo put into the oven immediately or they will become heavy, and the oven should be tolerably brisk. Time.—^ to | hour. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 buns. Seasonable at any time. BUTTER, Browned. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley, 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste. il/ofZe.—Pu<a|the butter into a fryingpan over a nice plear fire, and when it smokes, throw in the parsley, and add the vinegar and seasoning. Let the whole simmer for a minute or two, when it is ready to serve. This is a very good sauce for skate. Time.—^ hour. BUTTER, Clarified. Put the butter in a basin before tho