402 Philosophy of Housekeeping. in the red jelly, and let this set; when firm, pour on the same quantity of pale jelly, and let tliis set. Continue this, letting each colour set before pouring in another. Blancmange jelly may be moulded together. The layers should be about an inch in depth, and each layer should be perfectly hardened before another is added. Half a mould of blancmange and half a mould of jelly are frequently served in the same manner. A few pretty dishes may be made in this way, of jellies or blancmanges left from the preceding day, by melting them separately in a jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and then moulding them. TBIPLE. Ingredients.—| lb. macaroons, J lb. ratafias, 26 Savoy biscuits, ^ pot of raspberry jam, 1 pint custard, whites of eggs, 1^ oz. pounded sugar, ^ pint of sherry, 6 sponge-cakes, 1 oz. almonds. 3Iode.—Spread the raspberry jam on 13 of the biscuits and press the other 13 closely over them ; line a large round glass dish with them, and pour over the sherry; let them soak 2 hours; arrange, the ratafias and macaroons over them, and the sponge-cakes, thickly stuck with blanched and sliced almonds on the top; pour the custard over, and add a whip made of the whites of the eggs and the sugar, and serve cold. COMPOTE OF OBANGES. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, 6 oranges. Mode.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into small pieces without breaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the syrup, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well skimmed, and is quit« clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them out care- fully with a spoon without breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick; let it cool a httle, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they vnll be ready for table. LEMON" JELIiT. Ingredients.—6 lemons, f lb. lump-sugar, 1 pint of water, IJ oz. of isinglass, I pint of sherry. Mode.—Peel 3 of the lemons, pour h pint of boiling water on the rind, and let it infuse for h hour ; put the sugar, isinglass, and i pint of water into a lined saucepan, and boil those ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained emon-juice, the strained infusion of rind, and bring the whole to tbe pohit of boiling ; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag; pour it into n mould that has been wetted or soaked in water; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain until required for table. Previously to adding the lemon- juice to the 9ther ingredients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, a.% if this is