146 •rnE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Gravy, Beef GRAVY, Beef, a Quickly Made. lngredicntx.—\ lb. of shin of beef, ^ omoa, \ carrot, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley nnd savoury herbs, a piece of butter hbout the size of a walnut; cayenne and mace to taste, J pint of water. Mode.— Cut up the meat into very small pieces, slice ihe onion and carrot, and put them into a small saucepan with the butter. Keep stirring over a sharp fire until they have taken a litilo colour, when add the water and the remaining ingredients. Simmer for h hour, skim well, strain, and flavour, when it will bo ready for use. Tcnie.— h hour. Average cost, for this quantity, 5d. GRAVY, Brown. Iiigredknts.—2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, 2 small slices of lean bacon (if at hand), salt and whole pepper to taste, 3 cloves, 2 quarts of water. For thickening, 2 oz. ol'biiiter, 3 oz. of flour. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan ; set this on the fire, throw in ihe onions cut in rings, and fry them a light brown ; then add the beef and bacon, which should be cut into small square pieces ; season, and pour in ateacupful ol water ; let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it is of a nice brown colour, occasionally stirring the contents. Now fill up with water in the above pro- portion ; let it boil up, when draw it to the side of the fire to simmer very gently fori A hour; strain, and when cold, take off all the fat. In thickening this gravy, melt 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of flour, and stir till of a light-brown colour ; when cold, add it to the strained gravy, and boil :t up quickly. This thickening may be made in larger quan- tities, and kept in a stone jar for use when wanted. Time. — Altogether, 2 hours. Average cost, 4d. por pint. GRAVY, Brown, without Meat. Ingredients.—2 large onions, 1 large carrot, 2 oz. of butter, 3 pints of boiling water, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, a wine- glassful of good beer ; salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—SWco, flour, and fry the onions and carrots in the butter until of a nice light-bi'own colour, then add the boiling water and the remaining ingre- dients ; let the whole stew gently for about an hour, then strain, and when cold, skim off all the fat. Thicken it, aud^ if thout^ht uecessoiy^ add a few drops Gravy, Cheap jB- of colouring. Time.—1 hour. Aveixgt' cost, 2d. per pint. Note.—The addition of a small qiian«- tity of mushroom ketchup or Harvey'ai at sauce very much improved" the flavour off this gravy. f,: GRAVY, Cheap, for Minced Veal Ingredients.—Bones and trimmings of cold roast or boiled veal, Ih pint of' water, 1 onion, ;J teaspoonfui "of minced lemon-peel, ^ teaspoonfui of salt. 1 blade of pounded mace, the juice of | lemon; thickening of butter and flour. Mole.-'- Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, . except the thickening and lemon-juice, and let them simmer very gently for rather more than 1 hour, or until the liquor is reduced to a pint, when strain through a hair sieve. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and the lemon-juice; set it on the fire, and let it just boil up, . when it will be ready for use. It may be » flavoured with a Uttle tomato sauce, and,. where a rather dark-coloured gravy is ; J not objected to, ketchup, or Harvey's ■ sauce, may be added at pleasure. Tinit. —Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, 3d. GRAVY, Cheap, for Hashes, &c. higredients. —Bones and trimmings of : the cooked joint intended for hashing, i teaspoonfui of salt, ^ teaspoonfui oi : whole pepper, ^ teaspoonfui of whole » allspice, a small faggot of savoury herbs, . ^ head of celery, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, . thickening, sufficient boiling water to cover the bones. Mode.—Chop the bones • in small pieces, and put them in .a stew- pan, with the trimmings, salt, popper, . spice, herbs, and celery. Cover with i " boiling water, and let the whole simmer " j[ gently for 1^ or 2 hours. Slice and fry the onion in the butter till it is of a palo ; brown, and mix it gradually with the gravy made from the bones; boil ior ^ hour, and strain into a bosin ; now put' ."' it back into the stewpan; flavour with walnut pickle or ketchup, piekled-ouion liquor, or any store sauce that mny ha preferred. Thicken with a little 1 and flour, kneaded together on a i , A" and the gravy will bo ready for use. After the thickening is adiied, the gravy should just boil, toUke off the rawneiA "^Ji of the flour. Time.—2 hours, or rathrfT more. Average cost, id., e:tc\\i^\'9 th» bones and trimuiin^^s.