THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 351 Turkey Soup ! cgs at the first joint, and bring the feet close to the thighs, as a woodcock should ■ he trussed, and do not slitff^ it. Mode.— Put it down to a bright fire, keep it well basted, and at first place a piece of paper on the breast to prevent its taking too much colour. About 10 minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with floui', and baste well; when nicely frothed, send it to table immediately, with a little gravy in the dish, and some in a tureen. If at hand, a few water-cresses may be placed round the turkey as a garnish, or it may be larded. Time.—About 1 hour. Aver- ai/e cost, 7s. to S.t. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—In full sea- son from Juno to October, TUEKEY SOUP (a 'Seasonable Dish at Christmas). Ingredients.—2 quarts of medium stock, the remains of a cold roast turkey, 2 oz. of 1 ice-flour or arrowroot, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ketchup. Mode.— Cut up the turkey in small pieces, and put it in the stock ; let it simmer slovrly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out, and work the soup through a sieve ; when cool, skim well. Mix the rice-flour or arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup; add it with the sea- soning and sauce, or ketchup. Give one boil, and serve. Time.—4 hours. Aver- age cost, lOd. per quart. Seasonable at Christmas. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—Instead of thickening this soup, vermicelli o. macaroni may be served in it. TUENIPSOUP Incjredieais.—S oz. of butter, 9 good- sized tuniips, 4 onions, 2 quarts of stock, seasoning to taste. J/oc/e. — Melt the buitcr in the stcwpan, but do not let it boil; wash, drain, and slice the turnips and onions very thin ; put them -in the butter, with a teacupful of stock, and stew very gently for an hour. Then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer another hour. Paib it through a tammy, put it back into the stewpau, but do not let it boil. Serve very hot. Time.—2h hours. Avcrar/e cost, Sd.-per qntirt. Sea', sonable from October to March, S^iffi. cicvt for 8 jjcrsons. iVofe.—By adding a little cream, this poup will be much improved. Turnips, Mashed TURNIPS, BoUed. Ingredients. — Turnips ; to each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt. Mode. — Pare the turnips, and, should they be very large, divide them into quarters ; but, imless this is the case, let them be cooked whole. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and let them boil gently until tender. Try them with a fork, and, when done, take them up in a colander; let them thoroughly drain, and serve. Boiled turnips are usually sent to table with boiled mutton, but are infinitely nicer when mashed than served whole: unless nice and young, they are scarcely worth tho trouble of dressing plainly as above, Time.—Q\A turnips, ^- to ]| hour; young ones, about 18 to 20 minutes. Average cost, id. per bunch. Sufficient.—Allow a bunch of 12 turnips for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—May be had all the year; but in spring only useful for flavouring gravies, &c. TURNIPS, German Mode of Cooking, Ingredients.—8 large turnips, 3 oz, of butter, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than ^ pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. Mode.—Make the butter hot in a stewpan, lay in the turnips, after having pared and cut them into dice, and season them with pepper and salt. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then add the broth, and simmer the whole gently till the turnips are tender. Brown the above proportion of flour with a little butter; add this to the turnips, let them simmer another 6 minutes, and serve. Boiled mutton is usually sent to table with this vegetable, and may be cooked with tho turnips by placing it in the midst of them: the meat would then be very deUcious, as, there being so little liquid with tho tur- nips, it would almost be steamed, and, consequently, very tender. jPtmc—20 minutes. Aveo-age cost, id. per bunch. Svfficient for 4 persons. Seasonable,—' May be had all the year, TURNIPS, Mashed, Ingredients.—10 or 12 large turnips; to each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, Cayenne or white paper to tasto. Mode.^