195 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. May—Bills of Fare inner for 12 persons. First Course.—White soup; asparagus lup ; salmon cutlets ; boiled turbot and bstei" sauce. Entrees.—Chicken vol- i-vent; lamb cutlets and cucumbers ; icandeau of veal; stewed mushrooms. 'cond Course.—Roast lamb ; haunch of utton; boiled and roast fowls ; vege- bles. Third Course.—Ducklings; gos- igs ; Charlotte Russe ; Vanilla cream ; )oseberry tart; custards ; cheesecakes; binet pudding and iced pudding; des- ri and ices. inner for 10 persons. First Course.—Spring soup ; salmon h. Gen^v^se; red mullet. Entrees.— licken vol-au-vent; calf's liver and icon aux fines herbcs. Second Course. Saddle of mutton; half calf's head, ngue, and brains ; braised ham; aspa- igus. Third Course.—Roast pigeons ; icklings; sponge-cake pudding; Char- tte h. la vanille; gooseberry tart; cream; leesecakes ; apricot-jam tart j dessert idl^es. inner for 8 persons. First Course.—Julienne soup; brill and hater sauce ; fried fillets of mackerel. )t<)ee5.—Lamb cutlets and cucumbers; jbster patties. Second Cowm.—Roast let of veal; boiled leg of lamb; aspa- gU8. Third Cowm.—Ducklings; goose- Jrry tart; custards ; fancy pastry; luffl^; dessert and ices. inner for 6 persons. First C'oMr«e.—Vermicelli soup ; boiled hlmon and anchovy sauce. Entrees.— iUets of beef and tomato sauce; sweet- May, Plain Family Dinners for breads. Second Course.—Roast lamb ; boiled capon ; asparagus. Third Course. —Ducklings; cabinet pudding ; compCto of gooseberries; custards in glasses; blancmange ; lemon tai'tlets; fondue ; dessert. First Course.—Macaroni soup; boiled mackerel h, la maltre d'h6tel; fried * smelts. Entrees.—Scollops of. fowl; lobster pudding. Second Cowrse.—Boiled leg of lamb and spinach; roast sirloin of beef and horseradish sauce ; vegetables. Third Course.—Roast leveret; salad; soufBg of rice ; ramakins; strawberry- jam tartlets; orange jelly; dessert. First Course.—Julienne soup; trout with Dutch sauce; salmon cutlets. En- tries. —Lamb cutlets and mushrooms; Tol-au-vent of chicken. Second Course. —Roast lamb ; calf's head tl la tortue ; vegetables. Third Course. — Spring chickens; iced pudding; Vanilla cream; clear jelly ; tartlets ; cheesecakes ; des- sert. First Course.—Soup klareine; crimped trout and lobster sauce ; baked whitings aux fines herbes. Entries. — Braised mutton cutlets and cucumbers ; stewed pigeons. Second Course.—Roast fillet of veal; bacon-cheek and greens ; fillet of beef h, la jardinifere. Third Course.— Ducklings; soufi9€ k la vanille; comp6t« of oranges ; meringues; gooseberry tart j fondue; dessert. MAY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—]. Vegetable soup. 2. Saddle of mutton, asparagus and potatoes. 3. Gooseberry tart, custards. Monday.—1. Fried whitings, anchovy sauce. 2. Cold mutton, mashed pota- toes, stewed veal. 3. Fig pudding. Tuesday.—1. Haricot mutton, made from remains of cold mutton, rump- steak pie. 2. Macaroni. Wednesday.—1. Roast loin of veal and spinach, boiled bacon, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 2. Gooseberry pud- ding and cream. Thursday.—1. Spring soup. 2. Roast leg of lamb, mint sauce, spinach, curried veal and rice. 3. Lemon pudding. Friday.—1. Boiled mackerel and pars- ley-and-butter. 2. Stewed rump-steak, cold lamb and salad. 3. Baked goose- berry pudding. Third Coiirse. Goslinpa, >w J, remored by m « §§ College Puddinga. "o"? §* Ifoycau Jelly. Vase of :s § S 5^ Flowers. .SiS Inlaid Jelly. m 1^2 DucUings, is g ° removed by % p S?. NesEclrode Pudding. ^ to' Dessert and Icea.