THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 280 Babbit, Eoast or Baked 1 glass of port wine, il/ocZe.—Slice tlio onions, and put them into a stewpan with the flour and butter ; place the pan near the fire, stir well as the butter melts, till the onions become a rich brown colour, and add, by degrees, a little water or gravy till the mLxturo is of the consistency of cream. Cut some thin slices of bacon; lay in these with the rabbit, cut into neat joints; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, the lemon and bay-leaf, and let the whole simmer until tender. Pour in the port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time.—About hour to simmer the rabbit. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT, Boast or Baked. ' Ingredients. — 1 rabbit, forcemeat, buttered paper, E.n.rnge-meat. Mode.— Empty, skin, and thoroughly wash the rabbit; wipe it dry, line the inside with sausage-meat and forcemeat, and to which has been added the minced liver. Sew the stuffing inside, skewer back the head_between the shoulders, cut off the fore-joints of the shoulders and legs, bring them close to the body, and secure then! by means of a skewer. Wrap the rabbit in buttered paper, and put it SO^SI BABBIT. down to a bright clear 5re ; keep it well basted and a few minutes before it is done remove the paper, flour and froth it, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Take out the skewers, and serve with brown gravy and red-currant jelly. To bake the r.ibbit, proceed in the same manner as above; in a good oven, it will take about tbo samo time as roasting. Time.—A young rabbit, 35 minutes ; a largo one about ^ hour. Average cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 largo rabbits, or 8 email ones; a faggot of savoury herbs, A head of celery, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 Blade of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, R little pounded mace, .J pint of Babbit Stewed, Larded cream, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, the crumb of a French roll, nearly 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Make the soup with the legs and shoulders of the rabbit, and keep the nice pieces for a dish or entree. Put them into warm water, and draw the blood ; when quite clean, put them into a stewpan, with a faggot of herbs, and a teacupful, or rather more, of veal stock or water. Simmer slowly till done through, add the three quarts of water, and boil for an hour. Take out the rabbit, pick the meat from the bonc-e, covering it up to keep it white ; put the bones back in the liquor, add the vege- tables, and simmer for two hours ; skim and strain, and let it cooL Now pound the meat in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs, and the crumb of the roll pre- viously soaked ; rub it through a tammy, and gradually add it to the strained liquor, and simmer for 15 minutes. Mix arrowroot or rice-flour with the cream (say 2 dessert-spoonfuls), and stir in the soup ; bring it to aboil, and serve. This soup must be very white, and instead of thickening it with arrowroot or rice-flour, vermicelli or pearl barley can be boiled in a little stock, and put in five minutes before serving. Time.—Nearly 4 hours. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. BABBIT, Stewed. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 large onions, 6 cloves, 1 small teaspoonful of chopped lemon-peel, a few forcemeat balls, thickening of butter and flour, 1 large tablcspoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the rabbit into small joints; put them into a stewpan, add the onions sliced, the cloves, and minced lemon- peel. Pour in sufficient water to cover the meat, and, when the rabbit is nearly done, drop in a few forceme.it balls, to which has been added the liver, finely chopped. Thicken the gravj with flour and butter, put in tho ketchup, give one boil, and serve. Ti'mc—Rather more than h hour. Average cost, Is. to Is. Od. each." Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to February. BABBIT STEWED, Larded. Ingredicnt.i.—l rabbit, a few strips of bacon, rather more than 1 pint of good broth or stock, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to tasto, thicken.