THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 145 Gooseberry Wine tained its full growth, and consequently jfore it shows any teudency to ripen, ay bruised or decayed berries, and those at are very small, should be rejected, ■le blossom and stalk ends should be moved, and the fruit well bruised in a .b or pan, in such quantities as to sure each berry being broken without ushing the seeds. Pour the water rhich should be warm) on the fruit, ,neeze and stir it with the hand until 1 the pulp is removed from the skin and eds, and cover the whole closely for I hours ; after which, strain it through coarse bag, and press it with as much rce as can be conveniently applied, to tract the whole of the juice and liquor le fruit may contain. To every 40 or ) lbs. of fruit one gallon more of hot ater may be passed through the marc, ■ husks, in order to obtain any soluble atter that may remain, and be again essed. The juice should be put into a b or pan of sufficient size to contain all it, and the sugar added to it. Let it I well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, id place the pan in a w.irm situation ; jep it closely covered, and let it ferment r a day or two. It must then bo drawn finto clean casks, placed a little on one de for the scum that arises to be thrown it, and the casks kept filled with the imaining "must," that should be re- rved for that purpose. When the active rmentation has ceased, the casks should 5 plugged upright, again filled, if neces- \ry, the bungs be put in loosely, o.nd, ;ter a few days, when the fermentation a little more languid (which may be lown by the hissing noise ceasing), the lings should be driven in tight, and a lUe-hole made, to give vent if necessary, bout November or December, on a clear e day, the wine should be racked from 3 lees into clean casks, which may be nsed with brandy. After a month, it lould bo examined to see if it is sufB- .ently clear for bottling ; if not, it must > fined with isinglass, which may bo issolved in some of the wine : 1 oz. will a sufficient for 9 gallons. In bottling le wine, it will be necessary to wire the »rk8 down, or to tie them down with ring. Old champagne bottles are the est for this wine. In March or April, or hen the gooseberry bushes bogin to lossom, tho wino must bo bottled, in •dor to insure its being cflervescing. Sea- maOle,—Make this tho end of May or be- iiming of J une, before tho berries ripon. Gravy, a good Beef GBAVIES, General Stock for By the addition of various store sauces, thickening and flavouring, good stock may be converted into good gravies. It should be borne in mind, however, that the goodness and strength of spices, wines, flavourings, &c., evaporate, and that they lose a great deal ol" their fra- grance if added to the gravy a longtime before they are wanted. If this poiut is attended to, a saving of one half tba quantity of these ingredients will be effected, as, with long boiling, the fla- vour almost entirely passes Gway. The shank-bones of mutton, previously well soaked, will be found a great assistance in enriching gravies ; a kidney or melt, beef skirt, trimmings of meat, &c. &o., answer very well when only a small quan- tity is wanted, and a good gravy need not necessarily be so very expensive ; for economically-prepared dishes are often- times found as savoury and wholesome as dearer ones. The cook should also re- member that the fragrance of gravies should not be overpowered by too much spice, or any strong essences, and that they should always be warmed in a iaia marie, after they are flavoured, or else in a jar or jug placed in a saucepan full of boiling water. The remains of roast- meat gravy should always be saved ; as, when no meat is at hand, a very nice gravy in haste may be made from it, and when added to hashes, ragcitits, &c., is a gi'eat improvement. GRAVY, a Good Beef, for Poultry, Game, &c. Ingredients.—h lb. of lean beef, ^ pint of cold water, 1 shalot or small onion, ^ a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mush- room ketchup, h a teaspoonful of arrow- root. Mode, —Cut up the beef into small pieces, and put it, with the water, iuto a stewpan. Add the shalot and seasoning, and simmer gently for 3 hours, taking care that it does not boil fast. A short time before it is required, tako the arrow- root, and having mixed it with a little cold water, pour it into the gravy, which keep stirring, adding the Harvey's sauce, and just letting it boil. Strain off the gravy in a tureen, and servo very hot. Time.—3 hours. Avera(je cost, 8d. jier pint.