143 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Gooseljorry Jam feop it boiling for about 6 ^Ilinu^es; kim well; then put in tlic goos^eberries, n'J lot them boil from h to ^- hour; then urn the whole into an earthen pan, and 3t it remain for 2 daj's. Boil the jam ip again until it looks clear ; put it into ots, and when cold, cover with oiled ;iper, and over the jars put tissue-paper rushed over on both sides with «ho 'hite of an cgiy, and store away in a dry laco. Care must bo taken, in makina^ Ids, to keep the jam well stirred and ell skimmed, to (irevent it burning at be bottom of the pan, and to have it ery clear. Time.—5 miiuites to boil ho currant-juice and sugar after the tter is dissolved ; from h to f hour to mmer the gooseberries "the first time, hour the seaond titno of boilinar. Ave- arje cost, from Scl. to lOcZ. per lb. pot. 'fficient.—Allow \h pint of fruit for a pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June ■July. ^OOSEBERRY JAM, White or Green. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fruit and igar. Mode.—Stlect the gooseberries ot very ripe, either white or green, and )p and tail them. Boil the sugnr with _ater (allowing h pint to every lb.) for bout \ hour, carefully removing the juni as it rises ; then put in the gooso- erries, ai.d simmer gently till clear and rm : try a little of the jam on a plate; if jellies when cold, it is done, and should icn be poured into pots. When C(d(l, iver with oiled paper, and tissue-paper •usherl over on both sides with the un- eaten white of an e^-g, and stow away I a dry place. Tivie.—\ hour to boil le sugar and water, ^ hour the jam. vet-ar/e cost, from Qd. to M. per lb pot. iifficient.—AUovf IS pint of fruit for a lb. ot. Seaso7iab/e.—Ma.ko this in June. OOSEBERRT JELLY. /^^^^m^/e?^^^.—Gooseberries ; to every Jit of juice allow J lb. of loaf sugar. lode.—Pat the gooseberries, after cut- ng off the tops and tails, into a pre- jTvmg-pan, and stir them over the fire Dill they aro quite soft; then strain ■lem through a sieve, and to every pint ■Juice allow ^ lb. of sugar. Boil tho ^ico nnd sugar together for nearly 3 nir, stitrinjr and skimming all tho time; id ii the jelly ajjpcars firm when a little It is poured OB to a plate, it in doiw>, Gooseberry Sauce and should then bo taken up and put into small pots. Cover tho pots with oiled and egged papoi's, the same as for currant jolly, and store away in a dry place. Time.—§ hour to simmer the gooseberries without the sugar; ij hour to boil tho juico. Average cost, from 8d.. to IQd. per ^,-lb. pot. Seasonable in July. GOOSEBERRY PUDDmG, Baked. Ingredients. — Gooseberries, 3 eggs, \\ oz. of butter, h pint of broad-crumbs, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put tho goo.se- borries into a jar, previously cutting off the tops and tails ; place this jar in boil- ing water, and let it boil until the goose- berries aro soft enough to pulp ; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 3 well-whi.<ked egii;s, 1.1 oz. of butter, k pint of broad- crumbs, and sugar to laste; beat the mi.Kturo well, put a border of puff-paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the puddinff, bake for about 40 minutes, strew sifted su^ar over, and serve. Time. —About 40 minutes. Average cost, \0d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iahl$ from May to July. GOOSEBERRY PUDDmG, Boiled. higredients.—^ lb. of suet crust, 1^ pint of green gooseberries, \ lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust rolled out to about h inch in thickness, and, with a pair of scissors, cut oir the tops and tails of the uoose- bcM ics ; fill the basin with the fruit, put in tho sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of tho pudding to- gether, tie over it a floni'ed cloth. BOILBD FRUIT PUDDING, put It into boiling water, and boil from to 3 hours ; turn it out of the basin, and servo with a jug of cream. Time.— ^.i to 3 hours. Average cost, IM. Suf- ficient for 6 or 7 persons.' Seasonable from May to July. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE for Boiled Mackerel. Ingredient.'!. -1 pint of gi'oen poosa- berrics, 3 tablespoonfula Jifiohomol