67 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Cauliflowers, Boiled the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready ^ pint of sauce made by recipe, pour it over the flowers, and serve hot and quickly. Time.—Small cauliflowers, 12 to 15 minutes ; large ones, 20 to 25 mi- nutes, after the water boils, Ave)'age cost, large cauliflowers, in full season, 6d. each. Sujficieiit, 1 large cauliflower for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of Sep- tember. CAULIFLOWEBS, Boiled. Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of wa- ter allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose cauliflowers that are'close and white ; trim off the decayed outside leaves, and cut the stalk off flat at the bottom. Open the flower a little in places to remove the insects, which are generally found about the stalk, and let the cauliflowers lie in salt and water for an hour previous to dressing them. BOILED CAUMFLOWBB. withtheirhcads downwards: this will effectually draw out all the ver- min. Then put them into fast-boiling water, with the addition of salt in the above proportion, and let them boil briskly over a good tire, keeping the saucepan uncovered, and the water well. skimmed. When the cauliflowera are tender, take them up with a slice ; let them drain, and, if largo enough, place them upright in the dish. Serve with plain melted butter, a little of which may be poured over the flower. Time. —Small cauliflower 12 to 15 minutes' large one 20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost, for large cau- liflowers, Qd. each. Svfficient. — Allow 1 laige cauliflower for 3 persons. Sea- sonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. CAULIFLOWERS, with Parmesan Cheese (Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served with the Second Course). Ingredients.—2 or 3cauliflowers, rather more than h pint of white sauce, 2 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese 2oz of fresh butter^ 3 tablespoonfuls of broad Celery- crumbs. Mode.—Cleanse and boil the cau- liflowers by the preceding recipe, drain them, and dish them with the flowers standing upright. Have ready the above proportion of white sauce; pour sufficient of it over the cauliflowers just to cover the top ; sprinkle over this some rasped Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, and drop on these the butter, which should be melted, but not oiled. Brown with a salamander, or before the fii-e, and pour round, but not over, the flowers the re- mainder of the sauce, with which should be mixed a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese. Time.—Altogether, h hour. Average cost, for large cauli- flowers, Qd. each. Sufficient.—3 small cauliflowers for 1 dish. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. CAYENNE CHEESES. Ingredients.—J lb. of butter, h lb. of flom-, ^ lb. of grated cheese, J teaspoon- ful of cayenne, ^ teaspoonful of salt ; water. Mode.—Rub the butter in the flour; add the grated cheese, cayenne, and salt, and mix these ingredients well together. Moisten with sufficient water to make the whole into a paste ) roll out, and cut into fingers about 4 inches in length. Bake them in a moderate oven a very light colour, and sei-ve very hot. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is. M. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time, CAYETJ-NE VINE GAE, or Essence of Cayenne. Ingredients.—\ oz, of cayennq, pepper, ^ pint of strong spirit, or 1 pint of vine- gar. Mode.—Put the vinegar, or spirit, into a bottle, with the above proportion of cayenne, and let it steep for a month, when strain off and bottle for use. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces, but must be used very sparingly. CELEBY. With a good heart, and nicely blanched, this vegetable is generally eaten raw, and is usually served with the cheese. Let the roots be washed free from dii-t, all the decayed and outside leaves being cut off, preserving as much of the stalk as possible, and all specks or blemishes being carefully removed. Should the celery be jAj'go, divide it leng-thwise