881 Larded Fowl. The other side must be done in the same manner. Should the fowl be vei-y large and old, dj-aw the sinews of the legs before tucking them in. Make a slit in the apron of the fowl, largo enough to admit the parson's nose, and tie a string on the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. Mode.—When firmly trussed, put it into a stewpan with plenty of hot water , bring it to boil, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until the fowl is tender, and bear in mind that the slower it boils the plumper and whiter will the fowl be. Many cooks wrap it in a floured cloth to preserve the colour, and to prevent the scum from clinging to it ; in this case, a few slices of lemon should be placed on the breast; over these a sheet of buttered paper, and then the cloth. Cooking the fowl in this manner renders the flesh very white. Boiled ham, bacon, boiled tongue, or pickled pork is the usual accompaniment to boiled fowl, and the fowl may be served with bechamel, white sauce, parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery, or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the bird after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. TO ROAST SmPES. Ingredients.—Snipes, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—These, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Pluck, and wipe them outside, and tniss them with the head under the wing, having previously skinned that and the neck. Twist the legs at the first joint, press the feet upon the thighs, and pass a skewer through these and the body. Place four on a skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for about \ hour. Put some pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catch the trails ; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish the pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should be sent to table very hot and expeditiously, or they will not be worth eating. LARDED FOWL. Ingredients.—Fowl, bacon, lardoons. 3/ocZe.—Bacon for larding should bo firm and fat, and ought to be cured without any saltpetre, as this reddens white meats. Lay it on a table, the rind downwards ; trim ofi' any rusty part, and cut it into slices of any equal thickness. Place the 'slices on the top of one another, and cut them evenly into narrow strips, so arranging it that every piece of bacon is of the same size. Bacon for fricandeaux, poultry, and game should be about two inches in length, and rather more than one-eighth of an inch in width. If for larding fillets of beef or loin of veal, the pieces of bacon must be thicker. Truss the fowl in the following manner ;-After having carefully picked it, cut off the head, and skewer the 8km of the neck down over the back. Cut off the claws ; dip the legs in boiling water, and scrape them; turn the pinions under, run a skewer through them and