THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 1S7 Giblet Pie blades of maco, a little horseradish, ais proportion of popper, s[)ices, &c., : 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.—Let tlie icrkins remain in salt and water for 3 4 days, when tako thoin out, wipe rfectly dry, and put them into a stone •. Boil sufDcieut vinegar to cover 2va, with spices and pepper, &c., in 3 above proportion, for 10 minutes; lu- it, quite boiling, over the gher- 13, cover the jar with vine-leaves, and t over them a plate, setting them near ) fire, where they must remain all :ht. Next day drain off the vinegar, 1 it up again, and pour it hot over sm. Cover up with fresh leaves, and the whole remain till quite cold. Now down closely with bladder to exclude air, and in a month or two they 1 bo tit for use. Time.—4 days. Sea- able from the middle of July to tho . of Auyust. BLET PIE. ngretlients.—A set of duck or goose ets, 1 lb. of rump-steak, 1 onion, ^ Ionful of whole black pepper, a of savoury herbs, plain crust. —Clean, and put the giblets into pan with an onion, whole pepper, buncli ofsavoury herbs; add rather han a pint of water, and simmer for about lA hour. Take them it them cool, and cut them into ; line tho bottoui of a pie-dish I few pieces of rump-steak ; add a )Fgil>!ets and a few more pieces of ; season with pei:ipcr and salt, and in the gravy (which should be jd), that the giblets were stewed ver with a plain crust, and bake ;her more than \ h hour in a brisk Cover a picco of | apcr over tho ,0 prevent tho cmst taking too coloin-. Time.—lA hour to stew iblets, about 1 hour to bake tho Averacje cost, exclusive of the gib- Li. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or C persons. [jEt soup. redienU.—3 sets of goose or duck 3, 2 lbs. of shin of bcof, a few , 1 ox-tail, 2 mutton-shanks, 2 large 3, 2 carrots, 1 largo faggot of herbs, ad popper to taste, \ pint of cream, of butter mixed with a desscrt- ful of flour, 3 quarts of water. ,—Scald tho giblets, cut tho giz- in 8 pieces, and put them in a stew- Ginger-Beer pan with tho beef, bones, ox-tail, mut- ton-shanks, onions, herbs, pepper, and salt; add tho 3 quarts of water, and simmer till the giblets are tender, taking care to skim well. When tho giblets are done, tako them out, put them in your tureen, strain tho soup through a sieve, add tho cream and butter, mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, boil it up for a few minutes, and pour it over the gib- lets. It can bo flavoured with port wine and a little mushroom ketchup, instead of cream. Add salt to taste. Time.— 3 hours. Average cost, M. per qtiart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. GINGER, Apple. (A Dessert Dish.) Ingredients.—2 lbs. of any kind of hard apiiles, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1^ pint of water, 1 oz. of tincture of ginger. Mode. —Boil tho sugar and water until they foi'm a rich syrup, adding the ginger when it boils up. Pare, core, and cut the apples into pieces; dip them in cold water to preserve the colour, and boil them in the syrup until transparent; but be careful not to let them break. Put the pieces of apple into jars, pour over the syrup, and carefully exclude the air, by well covering them. It will remain pood some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes to boil the syrup; about ^ hour to simmer tho apples. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient ^or 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Alako this in September, October, or November. GINGEH-BEER. Ingredients.—2^ lbs. of loaf sugar, 1^ oz. of bruised ginger, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, 3 gallons of boiling water, two large table- spoonfuls of thick and fresh brewer's yeast. Mode.—Peel the lemons, squeeze the juice, strain it, and put tho peel and juice into a large earthen pan, with the bruised ginger, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar. Put over these ingredients 3 gallons of boiling water; let it stand until just warm, when add the yeast, which shiiuld bo thick and perfectly fresh. Stir tho contents of the pan well, and let them remain near tho lire all night, covering tho pan over with a cloth. The next day skim off tho yeast, and pour tho liquor carefully into another vessel, leaving tho sediment; then bot- tle immediately, and tie tho corks down.