THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 162 Invalid's Cutlet work of your poor patient's weak diges- tion. yhe goes on to caution nurses, by saying,—" Take care not to spill into your patient's saucer; in other words, take care that the outside bottom rim of his cup shall be quite dry and clean. If, «very time he lifts his cup to his lips, he has to carry the saucer with it, or else to drop the liquid upon and to soil his sheet, or bedgown, or pillow, or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea what a difference this minute want of care on * your part makes to his comfort, and even to his willingness for food." INVALID'S CUTLET. Ingredients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin or neck of mutton; 2 teacupfuls of water; 1 very small stick of celery ; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have the cutlet cut fi-om a very nice loin or neck of mut- ton, take off all the fat, put it into a stewpan with the other ingredients ; stew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, and skim off every particle of fat that may rise to the surface from time to time. The celerj' should be cut into thin slices botore it is added to the meat, and care must be taken not to put in too much of this, or the dish will not be good. If the water is allowed to boil last, the cut- let will be hard. Time.—2 hours very gentle stewing. Average cost, b'tZ. Sv^flicienl for one person. Seasonable.— "Whenever celei-y may be had. INVALID'S JELLY. Ingredients.—12 shanks of mutton, 3 quarts of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, pcpperaud salt to taste, 3 blades of mace, 1 onion, 1 lb. of lean beef, a crust of bread toasted brown. Mode.—Soak the shanks in plenty of water for some hours, and scrub them well; put them, with the beef and other ingredients, into a sauce- pan with the water, and let. them simmer very gently for 5 hours. Strain the broth, and, when cold, take off all the fat. It may be oaten either warmed up or cold as a jelly. T^me.—5 hours. Average cost, li. Sufficient to make from 1.^, to 2 pints of jelly. SiiasonalLe at any time. INVALIDS, Lemonade for. Ingredients.—\ lemon, lump sugar to taste, 1 pint of b'oiliug water. Mode.— Pare off tho rind of tho lemon thinly; Januar ; Bills of Pare cut the lemon into 2 or 3 thick slice and remove as much as possil)le of tfal wliite o\itfiirlo juth, and all the pips. Pc^ tho slices of lemon, the peel, and lunj sugar into a jug ; pour over the boilin water; cover it closely, and in 2 boura • will be fit to drink. It should either b strained or poured off from the sedimenti Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 2d. Sujj* cient to make 1 pint of lemonade. Seo j sonzble at any time, JAM ROLY-POLY PTJDDINQ. Ingredients.—J lb. of suet-crust, J HI of any kind of jam. Mode.—Make a nic light suet-crust, and ^ollitout to the thick ncss of about ^ inch. Spread the jaoi equally over it, leaving a small margin of paste without any, where the puddin joins. Roll it up, fasten the ends sfs curely, and tie it in a floured cloth ; pm the pudding into boiling water, and bo for 2 hours. Mincemeat or marmalad I may be substituted for the jam, aju makes excellent puddings. Timt. , hom"s. Average cost, 9d. Snfficient & 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle.—Siiitala for winter puddings, when fresh fruit i not obtainable. JANUARY-BILLS OP PARE.- Dinner for 18 persons. \ First Course. GQ t3 Moek-Tnrtlo Soup, removeH I'y Cod's Head and Sboulders. Vase of Cleiir Oxtail Soup, romoved by Fried Filleted Soles. C5 o 3i Entries. ST" BiL de Yeau aux lomates. Vase of Flowers. o c '5 a-- — Ponlet h laMarengo.