THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 41 Beef, Ste-wed Shin of )mons boiled with the meat are also a jreat improvement, and, where expense ,s not objected to, it may be glazed. This, owever, is not necessary where a good yravy is poured round and over the meat. Time.—^ rump stewed gently from 4 to i hours. Average cost, 10c?. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Season- \£le at any time. Note.—A stock or gravy in which to rail the meat may be made of the bone .nd trimmings, by boiling them with irater, and adding carrots, onions, tur- lips, and a bunch of sweet herbs. To nake this dish richer and more savoury, alf-roast the rump, and afterwards stew fc in strong stock and a little Madeira. T This is an expensive method, and is not, iter all, much better than a plainer- 3 Iressed joint, DEEF, Stewed Shin of. Ingredients.—A shin of beef, 1 head of elery, 1 onion, a faggot of savoury herbs, ;• teaspoonful of allspice, h teaspoonful of •j vholo black pepper, 4 carrots, 12 button i )nions, 2 turnips, thickening of butter f .nd flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of mushroom 1 :etchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine ; 9 )epper and salt to taste. Mode.—Have t he bone sawn into 4 or 5 pieces, cover lij ?ith hot water, bring it to a boil, and " emovo any scum that may rise to the iirface. Put in the celery, onion, herbs, pice, and seasoning, and simmer very :ently until the meat is tender. Peel (he vegetables, cut them into any shape l ancy may dictate, and boil them with the onions until tender; lift out the 'lieef, put it on a dish, which keep hot, Ij nd thicken with butter and flour as )i luch of the liquor as will be wanted for iravy; keep stirring till it boils, then i train and skim. Put the gravy back in I hestewpan, add the seasoning, port wine, I nd ketchup, give one boil, and pour it Aver the beef; garnish with the boiled Barrots, turnips and onions. Time.— fhe meat to bo stewed about 4 hours. [verage cost, 5d. per lb. with bone. ikifficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable t any time. BEEF-TEA. Ingredients.—1 lb, of loan gi-avy-beef, i pmt of water, 1 saltspoonf ul of salt. iO(/e.—Havo the moat cut without fat nd bone, and chooso a nice fleshy piece, jlut it into sm^U pieces about the size of Beef-Tea, Baked dice, and put it into a clean saucepan. Add the water cold to it; put it on tho fire, and bring it to the boiling-point; then skim well. Put in the salt when the water boils, and simmer the beef-tea gently from ^ to ^ hour, removing any more scum should it appear on the sur- face. Strain the tea through a hair sieve, and set it by in a cool place. Whea wanted for use, remove every particle of fat from the top ; warm up as much as may be required, adding, if necessary, a little more salt. This preparation is sim- ple beef-tea, and is to be administered to those invalids to whom flavourings and seasonings are not allowed. When tho pationtisvery weak, use double the quan- tity of meat to the same proportion of water. Should the invalid be able to take the tea prepared in a more palatable manner, it is easy to make it so by fol- lowing the directions in Soyer's recipe, which is an admirable cae for making savoury beef-tea. Beef-tea is always better when made the day before it is wanted, and then warmed up. It is a good plan to put the tea, into a small cup or basin, and to place this basin in a saucepan of boiUng water. When the tea is hot, it is ready to serve. Time. —to \ hour. Average cost, 6cZ. per pint. Sufficient.—Allow lib. of meat foi a pint of good beef-tea. BEEP-TEA, Baked. Ingredients.—1 lb, of fleshy beef, 1 pint of water, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Cut the beef into small square pieces, after trimming ofi" all the fat, and put it into a baking-jar (these jars are sold expressly for the purpose of making soups, gravies, &c., in the oven, and are arranged with tightly-fitting lids), with the above proportion of water and salt; close the jar well, place it in a warm but not hot oven, and bake for 3 or 4 hours. When the oven is very fierce in the day- time, it is a good plan to put tho jar in at night, and lot it remain till next morn- ing, when the tea will bo done. It should be strained,andputbyinacoolijlace until wanted. It may also bo flavoured with an onion, a clove, and a few sweet herbs, &c., when the stomach is suflSciently strong to take these. Time.—3 or 4 hours, or to bo left in the oven all night. Average cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient.— Allow 1 lb. of meat for 1 pint of good beof-tea.