THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 862 Vegetable Marrow, Fried Au^cust, aiiil September; but may bo preserved all the wiutor. VEGETABLE MABROW, Fried. Ingredients.—3 moflium-sized vctre- tablo marrows, e<rg and brcad-cnmibs, hot lard, il/or/e.—Peel, and boil the marrows until tender in salt and water ; then drain thorn and cut them in quarters, and take out the seeds. When tho- rotighly drained, brush the marrows over with egg', and sprinkle with bread- crumbs ; have ready some hot lard, fry the marrow in this, and, when of a nice brown, dish ; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and serve. Time.—Atout h hour to boil the marrow, 7 minutes to fry it. Average cost, in full season, Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable ia July, August, and Sep- tember. VEGETABLE MATEIBOWS IN WHITE SAUCE. Ingredients. — 4 or 5 moderate-sized marrows, g pint of white sauce. Mode, —Pare the marrows ; cut them in halves, and shape each half at the top in a point, leaving the bottom end flat for it io stand up- right in the dish. Boil the marrows in salt and water until tender ; take them up very carefully, and arrange them on a hot dish. Have rearly h pint of white sauce ; pour this over the marrows, and servo. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes to boil the marrows. Average cost, in full season. Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. Ingredients.—4 young vegetable mar- rows, or more, if very small, h pint of crean), salt and white pepper to taste, 2 qu;irts of white stock. Mode.—Pare and slice tlio marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning. Time.— 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 2(i. per quart. Seasonable in summer. Sufficient lor 8 persons. VEGBTABLE MARKOW IS WHITE SAUCE. Vegetable Soup VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients.—'! oz. of carrot, 10 oz. • parsnip, 10 oz. of potato, cut into ti; slices; Ij oz. of butler, 5 tea'^poonli of Hour, a teaspoonful of n ade mu-tani, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks oi 2 eggs, rather more than 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Boil the vegetables in. the water 2h hours ; stir them often, and. if the water boils away too quickly, addi more, as there should be 2 q'larts of soup when done. Mix up in a basin the butter and flour, mustard, salt, and pepper, with a teacupful of cold water :. stir in the soup, and boil 10 minutes. Have ready the yolks of the eggs in thee tureen; pour on, stir well, and serve*- Time.—Z hours. Average cost, id. perr quart. Seasonable in winter. SufficienU for 8 persons. VEGETABLE SOUP. Ingredients. — Equal quantities onions, carrots, turnips; \ lb. of butter/ a crust of toasted bread, 1 head oi celery, a faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 2 quarts of common stock or boUing water. Allow ^ lb. of vegetablesi to 2 quarts of stock. il/ocZe.—Cut u tho onions, carrots, and turnips ; wasi and drain them well, and put them im the stewpan with the butter and pow. dered sugar. Toss the whole over q . sharp fire for 10 minutes, but do not let them brown, or you will spoil the (lavoui of the soup. When done, pour the stock or boiling water ou them ; add the bread, celer}', herbs, and scasouinar; stew for 3 hours; skim well and strain it off. When ready to serve, add o. little sliced carrot, celery, and turnip, and flavour with a spoonful of Harvey's - sauce, or a little ketchup. Tnne.— 3.^, hours. Average cost, Gd. per quartX] S'casonable all the year. Sufficient fo; 8 persons. VEGETABLE SOUP. (Gocil and C/uuj), made ivilhout Meat.) Inqredicnis.—Q potatoes, 4 turnips, or 2 if very large ; 2 carrots, 2 onions; if obtainable, 2 mushrooms; 1 head of celery, 1 largo slice of bread, 1 smal saltspoonful of s.alt, i saltspoonful oi: ground black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls oV Harvey's sauce, G quarts of water.- Moik.—VQQl the vegetables, and cqt