108 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Duck and Peas, Stewed (As described in the recipe, it is an ex- cellent plan, when a couple of ducks are served, to have one with, and the other without, stuffing.) As to the prime parts of a duck, it has been said that '' the wing of a tiier and the leg of a swimmer " are severally the best portions. Some persons are fond of the feet of the duck; and, in trussing, these should never bo taken oif. The leg, wing, and neckbone are here shown ; so that it will be easy to see the shape they should be when cut off. Note.—Ducklings are trussed and roasted in the same manner, and served with the same sauces and accompani- ments. When in season, do not omit apple sauce. DUCK AND PEAS, Stewed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 pints of thin jjTavy, 1, or a small bunch of green onions, 3 sprigs of parsley, 3 cloves, 1 pint of young green peas, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Put the butter into a Btewpan ; cut up the duck into joints, lay them in with the slices of lean ham or bacon; make it brown, then dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir this well in before adding the gi'avy. Put in the onion, parsley, cloves, and gravy, and ■when it has simmered for \ hour, add a pint of young green peas, and stew gently for about \ hour. Season with cayenne, salt, and sugar; take out the duck, place it round the dish, and the peas in the middle. Time.—f hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, Is. Sea- sonable from June to August. DUCK AND PEAS, Stewed. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast duck, A pint of good gravy, cayenne and salt to taste, teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of butter rolled in flour, 11 pint of green peas. Mode.—Cut up the duck into joints, lay it in the gravy, and add a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and minced lemon-pcel; let this gradually warm through, but not boil. Throw the peas into boiling water slightly salted, and Ooil them rapidly until tender. Drain thorn, stir la the pounded sugar, and the Duck, to Ragout a whole butter rolled in flour ; shake them over the fire for two or three minutes, and serve in the centre of the dish, with the duck laid round. Time.—15 minutes to boil the peas, when they are full grown. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, IQd. Seasonable from June to August DUCK, Stewed, in Turnips. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredierds. —The remains of cold duck, h pint of good gravy, 4 shalots, a few slices of car- rot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 lb. of turnips weighed after being peeled, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. —Cut up the duck into joints, fry the shalots, carrots, and herbs, and put them with the duck into the gravy. (Jut about 1 lb. of turnips into h inch squares, put the butter into a stewpan, and stew them till quite tender, which will be in about i hour, or rather more; season with pepper and salt, and serve on the centre of the dish, with the duck, &c., laid round. Time.—Rather more than h hour to stew the turnips. Average cost, ex- clusive of cold duck. Is. Seasonableirom November to February. DUCK, to Bagout a whole. Ingredients.—1 large duck, pepper and salt to taste, good beef gravy, 2 onions sliced, 4 sage-leaves, a few leaves of lemon thyme, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—After having emptied and singed the duck, season it inside with pepper and salt, and truss it. Roast it before a clear fire for about 20 minutes, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient well-seasoned beef gravy to cover it; slice and fry the onions, and add these, with the sage- leaves and lemon thyme, both of which should be finely minced, to the stock. Simmer gently until the duck is tender; strain, skim, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour ; boil it up, pour over the duck, and servo. When iu season, about 1^ pint of young green peas, boiled separate!J', and put in the ragoOt, very much improve this dish. Ttme.— 20 minutes to roast the duck ; '20 minutes to stow it. Average cost, from 2«. 3(/. to 2s. 6d. each. Sulfickiit lor 4 or 5 jici-sous. Seasonable from November to February;, ducklings from April to AugusU