THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 18 Asparagus Pudding and moisten with boiling water. When boiled a short time and reduced, take out the parsley and onions, thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with the cream ; add a seasoning of salt, and when the whole is on the point of sim- mering, serve. Make the sauce suffi- ciently thick to adhere to the vegetable. Time.—Altogether, ^hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. a pint. Seasonable in May, June, and July. ASPARAGUS PUDDING (a deU- cious Dish, to be served with the Second Course). Ingredients.—§ pint of asparagus peas, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 table- spoonful of very finely minced ham, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, milk. Mode.-—Cut up the nice g^een tender parts of asparagus, about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufiicient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for 2 hours ; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted but- ter round, but not over, the pudding. Green peas pudding may be made in exactly the same manner, substituting peas for the asparagus. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Seasonable in May, June, and July. ASPAHAGUS SOUP. Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 quarts of medium stock (see Stock), 1 pint of water, salt. Mode.—Scraj^e the asparagus, but do not cut off any of the stems, and boil it in a pint of water salted, until the heads are nearly done. Then drain the asparagus, cut ofi" the green heads veiy neatly, and put them on one side until the soup is ready. If the stock is not made, add the stems of asparagus to the rest of the vegetables; if, however, the stock is ready, boil the stems a little longer in the same water that they were first cooked in. Then strain them off, add the asparagiis water to the stock, and when all is boiling drop in the green heads (or peas as they are called), and simmer for 2 «vr 3 miuutoa. August—Bills of Fare If the soup boils long after the asparagJi is put in, the appearance of the vegeta'jle would be quite spoiled. A small quvn- tity of sherry, added after the soup is put into the tureen, would improve this Bup very much. Sometimes a French roU is cut up and served in it. Tims.—To nearly cook the asparagus, 12 mirutes. Average cost. Is. 9d. per quart. SuficieiU for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from ilay to August. ASPIC, or Ornamental Savoury JeUy. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 1 cow-heel, 3 or 4 slices of ham, any poultry trimmings, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 1 glass of sherry, 3 quarts of water; seasoning to taste of salt and whole white pep- per ; 3 eggs. Mode.—Lay the ham on the bottom of a stewpan, cut up the veal and cow-heel into small pieces, and lay them on the ham; add tha poultry trimmings, vegetables, herbs, sheiTy, and water, and let the whole simmer very gently for 4 hours, carefully taking away all scum that may rise to the surface ; strain through a fine sieve, and pour into an earthen pan to get cold. Have ready a clean stewpan, put in the jelly, and be particular to leave the sedi- ment behind, or it will not be clear. Add the whites of 3 eggs, with salt and pepper, to clainfy; keep stirring over the fii-e till the whole becomes very white ; then draw it to the side, and lot it stand till clear. When this is the case, strain it through a cloth or jelly-bag, and use it for moulding poultry, &c. Tarra- gon vinegar may be added to give an additional flavour. Time.—Altogether 4^ hours. A verage cost for this quantity, it. AUGUST-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 persons. Fi7-st Cora-se. Mock-Tnrtle Soup, removed by Broiled Salmon and » Caper Sauce, p. K Vase of g: Flowers. (D Sonp h la Julienne, removed by Brill and Shrimp Sauce.