THE DICTIONARY 07 COOKERY. IG Artichokes, a French Mode allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a piece of soda the size of a shilling ; arti- 'chokes. Mode.—Wash the artichokes well in several waters ; see that no in- sects remain about them, and trim away JlBTICHOKSS. the leaves at the bottom. Cut ofiF the stems and put them into boiling water, to which has been added salt and soda In the above proportion. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender; ascertain when they are done by thrusting a fork in them, or by trying if the leaves can JXBUSALEM ABTICHOEXS. be easily removed. Take them out, let them drain for a minute or two, and eerve in a napkin, or with a Httle white eauce poured over. A tureen of melted butter should accompany them. This vegetable, unlike any other, is con- sidered better for being gathered two or three days; but they must be well Boaked and washed previous to dress- ing. Time.—20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Sufficient,—a dish of 5 or 6 for 4 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. AKTICHOKES, a Preneh Mode of Cooking. Ingredients.—5 or 6 artichokes ; to each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, .J teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems; put the artichokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepi)er, herbs, and butter ; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. To keep them a beautiful green, put a largo piece of cinder into a muslin bag, and let it boil with thcra. Serve with plain melted butter. Tme.—20 to 25 Artichokes, Boiled Jerusalem minutes. Sufficient,—5 or 6 sufficient for • | 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable from J uly to i , the beginning of September. AETICHOKES. Pried (Entremets,. or small dish to be served with i : the Second Course). Ingredients. —5 or 6 artichokes, salt and water: for the batter, — \ lb. ot flour, a little salt, the yolk of 1 egg, milk. Mode.—Trim and boil the arti- i chokes, and rub them over vTith lemon- i juice, to keep them white. When ! they are quite tender, take them up, \. remove the chokes, and divide the .' bottoms; dip each piece into batter, fry r them into hot lard or dripping, and r garnish the dish with crisped parsley. ' Servo with plain melted butter. Time.— t 20 minutes to boil the artichokes, 5 to 7 ' f minutes to fry them. Sufficient,—5 or 6 ' ' for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. 1 ABTICHOKES ^ I'ltalienne. i Ingredients. —4 or 5 artichokes, salt I fc and butter, about ^ pint of good gravy. I Mode. —Trim and cut the artichokes into quarters, and boil them until tender in water mixed with a Uttle salt and butter. When done, drain them well, and lay them all round the dish, with the leaves outside. Have ready some good gravy, highly flavoured with mushrooms; reduce it until quite thick, and pour it round the = ai-tichokes, and serve. Tivie.—20 to 25 minutes to boil the artichokes. Sufficient for one side-dish. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. ABTICHOKES, BoUed Jerusalem. Ingredients.—To each .J gallon of watar • allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; artichokes. Mode.—Wash, peel, and , shape the artichokes iu a round or ' oval form, and put thern into a sauce- pan with sufficient cold water to cover them salted in the abovo proportion. Lot them boil gently until tender ; take them up, drain them, and servo them in a napkin, or plaiu, whichever mode is pre- ferred ; send to table with them a tureen of melted butter or cream sauce, a little of which may be poured over the artichokes • ' when they are not ser\'ed in a napkin. Time.—About twenty minutes after the ' s water boil^ Aveivge cost, 2d, per lb. j