xliii To Wash up the Dinner Things. then tidy up her kitchen, and having resumed her white apron, which she will have exchanged for a common coarse one while doing the dirty work, she will take up the tray for tea, or coffee, or whatever else the family may be in the habit of taking in the evening. She should also take up the chamber candle- sticks and leave them in the hall. 268. It will now be about half-past eight, and occasionally she may ask leave to go out for an hour, or possibly her master or mistress may send her out on some errand; if the evening be fine, a short walk in the fresh air will refresh and invigorate her. 269. Having removed the tea-tray and washed up the things used, she should go up to the bedrooms, taking with her the slop-pail and a large can of clean cold water. Having emptied the slops and refilled any jugs and bottles that may require it, she should turn down the beds. In doing this she should first fold back the small portion of the sheet that is in excess of length of the other clothes, then turn back all together, but not bringing them down farther than to expose the bolster and ipillows. She should then let down the curtains at each side of the bed. 1 270. She should also close any windows that maybe open and hasp them, draw down the blinds, and shut the shutters, or draw the window curtains, according as the people to occupy the room desire. i 271. Having come downstairs again, she should empty the slop-pail, rinse it, wipe it dry, and set it aside. I 1 272. She should then lock all the lower doors and turn oS" the kitchen gas, and having taken up the keys and the plate to her mistress, she should go to bed. j 273. This, except on rare occasions of late company, she ought not to delay, if he can help, later than ten o'clock. If her master and mistress do not require ler to sit up, she should never loiter about. Plenty of sleep is absohitely lecessary for any one who daily undergoes hard bodily labour; and this a general servant who rises at six cannot have unless she goes to bed at ten ('clock. 274. The daily routine of a general servant's work, of course, to a certain ixtent, must vary, no one day being exactly the same as the one before or the me to come after. 275. For instance, in the day described, wo have given for afternoon work barcbing or ironing ; but another afternoon it would be rubbing plate, cleaning lass candlesticks, cleaning lamps, gaselier shades, Sjc.