199 THU DTCTIONAUT OF COOKEHY. Mincemeat, Excellent an additional quantity of spico be pre- \rod, add h teaspoonful of pounded Leo, and tbe'same of pounded allspice, p, however, prefer the mincemeat khout the latter ingredients, and can lich for its excellence. A^'erage cost [•this quantity, 8s. Seasonable.—Make IS about the beginning of December. pNOEMEAT, Excellent. Yn(/rediev(s.—3 large lemons, 3 large blea. 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 1 lb. of frants, 1 lb. of suet, 2 lbs. of mnist par, 1 oz. of sliced candied citron, 1 oz. [sliced candied orange-peel, and the lae quantity ot lemon-peel, 1 teacupfal I brandy, 2 tablespoonfnls of orange Irnialade. Mode.—Grnte the rinds of m lemons ; squeeze out the juice, str iin land boil the remainder of the lemons Kil tender enough to pulp or chop very tly. Then add to this pulp the apples, ■ch should be baked, and their skins |l cores removed ; put in the remaining Iredients one by one, and, as they are Bed, mix everything very thoroughly iether. Put the mincemeat into a ■36 jar with a closely-fitting lid. and in ■ortnight it will be ready for use. Msovafile.—This should be made the lb or second week in December. ■NT S A.UCE, to serve with Koast I Xiatab. mngredients. —. 4 dessertspoonfuls of ■pped mint, 2 dessertspoonfuls of ■ndeil white sugar, ^ pint of vinegar. Mle.—Wiish the mint, which should be lug and fresh-gathered, free from I; pick the leaves from the stalks, ■ce them very fine, and put them into Hreen ; add tlio sugar and vinegar, and I till the fotmer is dissobed. This fte is better by being made 2 or 3 Hrs before wanted for table, as the Hgar then becomes impregnated with ■flavour of the mint. By many per- Uf, the above proportion of sugar would I be considered sufhcieni; but as Hss vary, wo have given the quantity Wkh wo have found to suit the general I to. Average cost, 3d. Sufficient to 8 c. with a middling-sizo joint of lamb. —Where green mint is scarce and itainable, mint vinegar may bo sub- ••.<i for it, and will bo found very a : .table in early spring. Mock Turtle Soup MINT VINEGAR. Ingredients.—Vinegar, mint. Mode, —Procure some nice fresh mint, pick the leaves from the stalks, and fill a bottle or jar with them. Add vinegar to them until the bottle is full ; cover cLonly to exclude the air, and let it inluse for a fortnight. Then strain the liquor, and put it into small bottles for use, of which the corks should be sealed. Seasonable. —This should be made in June, July, or August. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. I. Ingredients.—^ a calfs head, | lb. of butter, ^ lb. of lean ham, 2 tablespoon- fnls of minced parsley, a little minced lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, 2 onions, a few chopped mu-hnioms (when obtainable), 2 shalots, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, \ bottle of Madeira or sheny, force-meat balls, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessertspoonful of pniindcd sugar, 3 quarts of best stock. Mode.—Scald the head with the skin on, remove the brain, tie the head up in a cloth, and let it boil for 1 hour. Then take the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces, and throw them into cold water. Now take the meat, put it into a stewpan, and cover with stock ; let it boil gently for an hour, or rather more, if not quite tender, and set it on one side. Melt the butter in another stewpan, and add the ham, cut small, with the herbs, parsley, onions, shalots, mushrooms, and nearly a pint of stock ; let these simmer slowly for 2 hours, aud then dredge in as much floyr as will dry up the butter. Fill up with t^e remain- der of the stock, add the wine,Tletit stew gently for 10 minutes, rub it through a tamniy, and put it to the calf's head ; season with cayenne, and, if required, a little salt; add the juice of the orange and lemon ; and when liked, ^ teaspoou- ful of poTinded mace, and the sugar. Put in the force-meat balls, simmer 6 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—' 4A hours. Average cost, 3s. 6d. poi quart, or 2s. Gd. without wine or force-meat balls. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient tor 10 persons. A^ote —The bones of the head should be well stewed in tj^e liquor it yia,s iirst