THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 816 Snipes, to Carve SHIPE. i hour. Put somo pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catcli the trails; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish tho pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should bo sent to table very hot and expeditiously, or they will not bo worth eating. Tme.—About ^ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. the brace. Sufficient.— 4 for a dish. &easomUe from November to February, Note.—Ortolans are trussed and dressed in the same manner. SNIPES, to Carve. One of these small but delicious birds may be given, whole, to a gentleman; but, in helping a lady, it will be better to cut them quite through the centre, from 1 to 2, completely dividing them into equal and like portions, and put only one half on the plate. SNOW-CAKE. Ingredients.—| lb. of ious-les-mois, i lb. of white pounded sugar, ^ lb. of fresh or washed salt butter, 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; then add the egg, previously well beaten, and then the other ingredients ; if the mixture is not light, add another egg, and beat for ^ hour, until it turns white and light. Line a flat tin, with raised edges, with a sheet of buttered paper; pour in the cake, and put it into the oven. It must be rather slow, and tho cake not allowed to brown at all. If the oven is properly heated, 1 to 1^ hour will be found long enough to bake it. Let it cool a few minutes, then with a clean sharp knife cut it into small square pieces, which should be gently removed to a large flat dish to cool before putting away. This will keep for several weeks. Time. —1 to 1,^ hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Seasonable at any time. SNOW-CAKE (a genuine Scotcti Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of arrowroot, J lb. of pounded white sugar, ^ lb. of butter, the whites of 6 eggs ; flavouring to taste, of essence of almonds, or vanilla, or lemon. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir ia the sugar and aiTowroot gradually, at the same time beating tho Soda-Cako mixture. Whisk the whites of the eg to a stiS" froth, add them to the other i gi-odients, and beat well for 20 minute Put in whichever of tho above flavoi ings may bo preferred ; pour tho ca into a buttered moulder tm, and bake in a moderate oven from 1 to 1^ hoi Time.—1 to li hour. Average cost, wi tho best Bermuda arrowroot, 4«. 6c< with St, Vincent ditto, 2s. 9d. Sv.fficie to make a moderate-sized cake, ^easo able at any time, SODA-BISCUITS, Ingredients.—1 lb, of flour, ^ lb, pounded loaf sugar, {lb. of fresh buttt 2 eggs, 1 small tc-aspoonful of carbona of soda. Mode.—P\xi the flour (whi' should be perfectly dry) into a basil rub in the butter, add the sugar, ai. mix these ingredients well togethe Whisk the eggs, stir them into tt mixture, and beat it well, until ever- thing is well incorporated. Quickly si in the soda, roll the paste out until it about ^ inch thick, cut it into smt round cakes with a tin cutter, and baV't them from 12 to 18 minutes in rather- brisk oven. After the soda is adde great expedition is necessary in roUir and cutting out the paste, and in puttii the biscuits immediately into the ove or they will be hea-vy. Time.—12 to '. minutes. Average cost, \s. Sv.fficient make about 3 dozen cakes. Seaso7ial at any time. SODA-BBEAD. Ingredients.—To evei-y 2 lbs. of floi allow 1 teaspoonful of tartaric acid, 1 te spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ca bonate of soda, 2 breakfast-cupfuls cold milk. Mode.—Let the tartaric ac and salt be reduced to tho finest possib powder; then mix them well with tl flour. Dissolve the soda in the mill and pour it several times from one bas: to another, before adding it to tho flou Work the whole quickly into a ligl dough, divide it into 2 loaves, and pt them into a well-heated oven imm diately, and bake for an hour. Soi milk or buttermilk may bo used, b» then a little less acid will bo neede< Time,—1 hour. SODA-CAKE. Ingredients.—\ lb. of butter, 1 lb flour, J lb. of currants, ^ lb. of (