45 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread-making and be fit for use. Time. —From 2 to 3 hours. Average cost, for a pig's head, i^d. per lb. Seasonable from September to March, JV^ote.—The liquor in which the head was boiled will make good pea soup, and tke fat, if skimmed off and boiled in water, and afterwards poured into cold water, answers the purpose of lard. BBEAD-MAKING. Panification, or bread-making, con- sists of the following processes, in th 9 tase of Wheaten Flour. Fifty or sixty t per cent, of water is added to the flour, with the addition of some leavening mat- ter, and preferably, of yeast from malt and hops. All kinds of leavening matter tliave, however, been, and are still used In different parts of the world: in the East Indies, " toddy," which is a liquor that flows from the wounded cocoa-nut f ree ; and in the West Indies, "dunder," :>r the refuse of the distillation of rum. riie dough then undergoes the well- ;uown process called kneading. The ^east produces fermentation, a process ; .\'hich may be thus described : — The lough reacting upon the leaveuina; mat- er introduced, the starch of the&ur is irausformed into saccharine matter, the : ;accharine matter being afterwards changed into alcohol and carbonic acid. The dough must bo well "bound," and ,'et allow the escape of the little bubbles 'f carbonic acid which accompany the rmentation, and which, in their pas- ire, cause the numerous little holes ,ich are seen in light bread. The yeast must bo good and fresh, if he bread is to be digestible and nice, italo yeast produces, instead of vinous erraentation, an acetous fermentation, yhich flavours the bread and makes it iisagreeable. A poor thin yeast pro- luces an imperfect fermentation, the csult being a heavy, unwholesome loaf. When the dough is well kneaded, it is :ft to stand for some time, and then, as ■on as it begins to swell, it is divided to loaves; after which it is again left o stand, when it once more swells up, iid manifests for the last time the symp- >ms ol fermentation. It is then put into ho oven, where the water contained in ho dough is partly evaporated, and the lavcs swell up again, whilo a yellow rnst begins to form upon the surface, Vhen the bread is sufficiently baked, the Bread-making bottom crust is hard and resonant if struck with the finger, while the crumb is elastic, and rises again after being pressed down with the finger. The bread is, in all probability, baked sufficiently if, on opening the door of the oven, you are met by a cloud of steam, which quickly passes away. One word as to the unwholesomeness of new bread and hot rolls. When bread is taken out of the oven, it is full of moisture ; the starch is held together in masses, and the bread, instead of being crusted so as to expose each grain of starch to the saliva, actually prevents their digestion by being formed by the teeth into leathery poreless masses, which lie on the stomach like so many bullets. Bread should always be at least a day old before it is eaten; and, if properly made, and kept in a cool dry place, ought to be perfectly soft and palatable at the end of three or four days. Hot rolls, swimming in melted butter, and new bread, ought to be carefully shunned by everybody who has the slightest respect for that much-injured individual — the Stomach. Aerated Bread.—It is not unknovra to some of our readers that Dr. Dauglish, of Malvern, has recently patented a pro- cess for making bread "light," withoui the use of leaven. The ordinary process of bread-making by fermentation is te- dious, and much labour of human hands is requisite in the kneading, in order that the dough may be thoroughly interpene- trated with the leaven. The new process impregnates the bread, by the application of machinery, with carbonic acid gas, or fixed air. Different opinions are ex- pressed about the bread ; but it is curious to note, that, as corn is now reaped by machinery, and dough ia baked by ma- chinery, the whole process of bread- making is probably in course of under- going changes which will emancipate both the housewife and the professional baker from a large amount of labour. In the production of Aerated Broad, wheaten flour, water, salt, and carbonio acid gas (generated by proper machinery), are the only materials employed. We need not inform our readers that car- bonic acid gas is the source of the effer- vescence, whether in common water coming from a depth, or in lemonade, or any aerated drink. Its action, in tho new bread, takes the place of formcuta I ticn in 1,he old. I