202 mtl-E DTCTIONATIY OF COOKEEt. Mushroom Powder Tho seHimcnt may also be bottled for ini/Dediate use, and will bo found to answer for flavouring thick soups or gravies. MUSHROOM POWDER (a valu- able addition to Sauces and Gravies, when fresh. Mushrooms are not obtainable). Ingredients.—i peck of largo mush- rooms, 2 onions, 12 cloves, ^ oz. of pounded maco, 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper. Mode.—Peel the mushrooms, wipe them perfectly free from piit and dirt, remove the black fur, and reject all those that are at all worm-eaten ; put them into a stewpan with the above ingredients, but without water; shake them over a clear fire, till all tho liquor is dried up, and be careful not to let them burn; arrange them on tins, and dry them in a slow oven ; pound them to a fine powder, which put int9 small di'j/ bottles ; cork well, seal the corks, and keep it in a dry place. In using this powder, add it to the gravy just before serving, when it will merely require one boil-up. The flavour imparted by this means to the gravy, ought to be exceed- ingly good. Seasonable.—This should be Diarie in September, or at the beginning of October. Ifote.—If the bottles in which it is stored away are not perfectly dry, as, also, the mushroom powder, it will keep good but a very short time. MUSHROOM SAUCE, very rich and good, to serve with Fowls or Babbits. Ingredients. — 1 pint of mushroom- buttons, salt to taste, a little grated nut- meg, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, flour to thicken. J/o(/e. —Rub the buttons with a piece of flannel and salt, to take off the skin ; cut off the stalks, and put them in a Btewpan with the above ingredients, previously kneading together the butter and flour; boil tho whole for about ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour some of tho sauce over the fowls, and the remainder serve in a tureen. Time. —10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. St{fi- dent to servo with a pair of fosvls. Sea- tonulU from August to October. Mushroom Sauce. WJiile MUSHROOM SAUCE, Brown, tO) serve with Roast Meat, &c. Ingredients.—^ pint of button mush- rooms, h pint of good beef gravy, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup (if at hand), thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the gravy into a saucepan, thicken it, and stir over the fire until it I boils. Prepare tho mushrooms by cuttingj) l_ off tho stalks, and wiping them free fronu grit and dirt; tho large flap mushrooniM cut into small pieces will answer for a . brown sauce, when the buttons are not obtainable; put them intc the gmvy, , and let them simmer very gently for ■ about 10 minutes ; then add the ketchup, , and serve. rtme.—Rather more than. 10 minutes. Seasonable from August to October. Note.—When fresh mushrooms are not obtainable, the powder may be used aa -• a substitute for brown sauco. MUSHROOM SAUCE, White, to serve with Boiled Fowls, Cut-- lets, &c. Ingredients.—Rather more than J pint i of button mushrooms, lemon-juice, and water, 1 oz. of butter, pint of B6cliamel, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode. —Turn the mushrooms wliito by putting them into lemon-juice and water, havi previously cut off the stalks and wipi them perfectly free from arit. Chopi them, and put them in a stewpan witn the butter. When the mushrooiDS are softened, add the Bechamel, and giimuer for about 5 minutes; should they, how- ever, not be done enough, allow rn'''cr more time. They should not boil : than necessary, as they would then their colour and flavour. Rub the whole through a tammy, and servo very ' ' After this, it should be warmed in : marie. Time. — Altogether \ Arerage cost, Is, Seasonable from A to October. MUSHROOM SAUCE, White, to serve with Boiled Fowls, Cut- lets, &c. (a more simple Method). 7«;^rcf//(;;its.—pint of lueltod buttaii made with milk,'pint of button nuish- rooms, 1 dcs.sertspoonful of mushrooBX ketchup, if at hand ; cayenne and salt tO tasto. .1/orfe.—Make the melted butt^ with milk, and add to it tho mushroom^