xxxvii To Scour the Bedroom, jely round the handle and door-plate ; these are held in place while the ihing and drying ifi done, and prevent the paint from being worn away. 222. TO CLEAN MARBLE. ^Mii with ^ pint of soap-lees, ^ gill of turpentine, sufficient jiipo-clay and llocks' gall to make the whole into a rather thick paste. Apply it to the marble |,h a soft brush, and after a day or two, when quite dry, -ub it o£f with a soft I,. Apply this a second or third time, till the marble is quite clean. 23. AnotUr Method.—Take two parts of soda, one of pumice-stone, and one of Uly.powdered chalk. Sift these through a fine sieve, and mix them into laste with water. Bub this well over the marble, and the stains will be pved : then wash it with soap and water, and a beautiful bright polish will produced. 24. She will then wash with soap and warn water if it be summer, but cold ler if it be frosty winter weather, the window-panes, as much as she can get at lout going outside. The warm soap and water should be applied first briskly . the flannel; the glass should then be rinsed down with cold water, and and polished off afterwards with clean, dry cloths. For the rinsing, a ige will bo found very useful. The window-sills, if dirty, should also be led, but, like the door, gently, for fear of injuring the paint. 25. For all these purposes she will use the small bowl, which she can empty I the pail, and refill from the can as often as required. 228. TO CLEAN WINDOWS. {French Mode.) With a clean washleather, kept for the purpose alone, wash down the windows clean cold water, moving the leather one way only (downwards); rinse in Q water, and repeat with the wrung-out leather. Wash all the windows in way both inside and out, and leave them to dry. .J^oie.—This plan should be U3ed in a dusty thoroughfare, or when the sun shines hotly on the window. !27. All this work being finished, and having taken downstairs her pail, 1, can, hoxisemaid's box, stone, soap, cloths, flannels, &c., she will next seed to— SCOUR THE BEDROOM. p8. For this, if the room bo scoured regularly once a fortnight, she will require ling more than plenty of clean cold soft water, a good scrubbing-brush, and use-flannel. Having scrubbed well with the brush, and plenty of water, a ion as far as her arm will reach, she should dry it off with the flannel before