viii Philosophy of Housekeeping. enveloped iu the warm sheet, and the process of drying is conducted with rapidity and comfort. 45. Servants' Sheets, Pillow-oases, Towels, &o., should be all arranged in the same manner, and attended to with equal care; they should be given out when required by the mistress, who should have all changes of bed-linen made with exact regularity. The old-fashioned plan was to change the upper sheet every fortnight, giving a clean upper-sheet, and taking the upper-sheet in place of the lower. This plan insures regularity of wear in the sheets. 46. Glass Cloths should be of good linen ; that sold for white roller blind* answers admirably, as it is soft, without fluff, and is not expensive. i 47. Tea Cloths are of coarser linen, but very coarse cloths are not economical, as they are clumsy, and often cause breakages. 48. Kitchen Cloths.—Eound towels are made of coarse linen, and what is called " Crash," respectively, A good supply of these is required in every house. 49. Dusters are sold at prices varying from sixpence to a shilling each, but: are far more effective when made of old chintz, old linings, &c., being softer, and; taking up the dust far better than the dressed stiff linen. Ugly, old-fashioned, chintz is often sold at threepence and foui-pence a yard, and when washed, makes > admirable dusters at this low price. 50. Every mistress who wishes to preserve her kitchen cloths from holes and i bui'ns will provide a kettle-holder for the kitchen, and a pot and saucepan- holder; these maybe bought at the door for threepence, or, made out of oldi pieces, will save many a good cloth and duster from being burnt, made dirty, orr destroyed. 51. The following list of Household LisENis intended forthe guidance of those' whose income is moderate. Fewer articles of each kind may comfortably answer' where strict economy is an object in starting ; but the numbers here given havej been found by experience to suit a household of medium income, keeping tw- servants:—Best Sheets, six pairs; spare room, two pairs ; servants, six pairs;; Pillow-cases, six best, twelve good, six common; Towels, twelve rough, twelvea coarse, twenty-four fine, twelve servants'; Bath Sheets, four ; Table-cloths, sin breakfast, six dinner, two best, six servants'; Table Napkins, twelve dinner/, twelve best, six breakfast; Glass-cloths, twelve; Tea-cloths, eighteen f Dusters, twelve; Round Towels, six; Kitchen-cloths, twenty-four Chamber-cloths, six; Pudding-cloths, six. A list of all the contents ol ■ the linen-press should be neatly entered in a book, with the marks carefull} copied, and a space left for remarks in time to come. Example : Six pain-'