THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 48 Bread, to make a Peck of good stir into it as much of the flour as you can with tho spoon; then wipo it out clean with your fingers, and lay it aside. Next take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the top of the leaven, and begin, with the knuckles of both bands, to knead •'A well. When tho flour is nearly all kneaded in, begin to draw the edges of the dough towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly ; and when it is free from flour and lumps and crumbs, and does not stick to tho hands when touched, it will bo done, and may be covered with tho cloth, and left to rise a second time. In f hour look at it, and should it have swollen very much and begin to crack, it will be light enough to bake. Turn it then on to a paste-board or very clean dresser, and with a large sharp knife divide it in two; make it up quickly into loaves, and despatch it to the oven; make one or two incisions across the tops of the loaves, as they will rise more easily if this be done. If baked in tins or pans, rub them with a tiny piece of butter laid on a piece of clean paper, to prevent the dough from sticking to them. All bread should be turned upside down, or on its side, as soon as it is drawn from the oven: if this be neglected, the under Eart of the loaves will become wet and listered from the steam, which cannot then escape from them. To niahe the dough 7uithout setting a sponge, merely mix the yeast with the greater part of the warm milk-and-water, and wet up the whole of the flour at once after a little salt has been stirred in, proceeding exactly, in every other respect, as in tho directions just given. As the dough will soften in the rising, it should be made quite firm at first, or it will be too lithe by the time it is ready for the oven. Time.—To be left to rise an hour the first time, f hour the second time ; to be baked from 1 to li hour, or baked in one loaf from 1^ to 2 nours. BBEAD, to make a Peck of good. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 6 pints of cold water, .J pint of good yeast, a peck of flour, 2 oz. of salt. Modc—VocX and boil tho potatoes; beat them to a cream while warm; then add 1 pint of cold water, strain through a colander, and add to it h pint of good yeast, which should have been put in water over-night to take olT its bitterness. Stir all well Bread-and-butter Pudding, Baked together with a wooden spoon, and pour the mixture into the centre of the flour; mix it to tho substance of cream, cover it over closely, and let it remain near the fire for an hour; then add the 5 pints of water, milk-warm, with 2 oz. of salt; pour this in, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. Let it remain for about 2 hours; then make it into 7 loaves, and bake for about 1^ hour in a good oven. When baked, the bread should weigh nearly 20 lbs. Time.—AhoVii \ h hour. BBEAD-AND-BUTTEB PBITTEIIS. Ingredients.—Batter, 8 slices of bread and butter, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of jam. Mode.—Make a batter, the same as for apple fritters; cut some slices of bread and butter, not very thick ; spread half of them with any jam that may be pre- ferred, and cover with the other shces; slightly press them together, and cut them out in square, long, or round pieces. Dip them in the batter, and fry in boiling lard for about 10 minutes; drain them before the fire on a piece of blotting-paper or cloth. Dish them, sprinkle over sifted sugar, and serve. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- sonable at any time. BBEAD - AND - BUTTEB PUD- DING, Baked. Ingredients.—9 thin slices of bread and butter, 1.^ pint of milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste, ;J lb.of currants, flavouringof vanilla, grated lemon-peel, or nutmeg. Mode.— Cut 9 slices of bread and butter, not very thick, and put them into a pie-dish, with currants between each layer, and on tho top. Sweeten and flavour the milk, either by infusing a little lemon-peel in it, or by adding a few drops of essence of vanilla; well whisk tho eggs, and stir these to Iho milk. Strain this over tho bread and , butter, and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour, or rather longer. This pudding may be very much enriched by adding cream, candied peel, or more eggs than stated above, it should not bo turned out, but sent to table in tho pie-dish, and is better for being made about two hours before it is baked. Time.—I hour, or rather longer. Average cost, 9d. Snffi- cieni for (J or 7 persona. Seasonable »* any time.