THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Veal and Ham Pio top ornament, and replacing it after the gravy is adiled. Time.—About Ih hour. A veracje cost, 2s. Gd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, i lb. of boiled ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, \ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, popper and salt to taste, a strip of ■ lemon-peel finely minced, the yolks of 2 Lard-boiled eggs, h pint of water, nearly h pint of good strong gravy, puff-crust. Mode.—Cut the veal into nice square pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish ; sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning, lemon-peel, and the yolks of the eggs cut in slices; cut the ham very thin, and put a layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, so arranging it that tho ham comes at the top. Lay a puff iDaste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about I pint of water ; cover with crust, ornament it with leaves, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for 1 to 1^ hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, nearly h pint of strong gravy: this should be made suffi- ciently good that, when cold, it may ciit in a lirm jcll,v. This pio may be very much enriched by adding a few mush- rooms, oysters, or sweetbreads; but it will be found very good without any of the last-namad additions. Time.— l\ hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. Average cost, 3s. Sujjicient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Potted (for Breakfast). Ingredients. — To every lb. of veal allow ^ lb. of bam, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, G oz. of fresh butter; clarified butter. Mode.—Mince the veal and ham togetliei as finely as possible, and pound well in a mortar, with cayenne, pounded maco, and fresh butter in tho above proportion. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, press it into potting-|iots, and cover with clarified butter. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good some days. Seasonable from March to October. Veal noils VEAL, Hagout of Cold (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients,—Tho remains of cold veal, 1 oz. of butter, pint of gravy, thicke; ing of butter and flour, pepper and to taste, 1 blade of pounded niace, 1 tablespoonf«l of mushroom ketchup, i tablespoonful of sheiTy. 1 dessertspoo;.- ful of lemon-juice, forcemeat bali ^lode.—Any part of veal will make tL: dish. Cut the meat into nice-lookii ■ pieces, put them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and fry a light brown ; add the gravy (hot water may be substituted for this), thicken with a little butter and flour, and stew gently about \ hour ; season with pepper, salt, and poundeil mace; add the ketchup, sherry, and lemon-juiee; give one boil, and serv-r Garnish the dish with forcemeat bal. and fried rashers of bacon. Tivie.— Altogether h hour. Average cost, exclu- sive of cold meat, 5cJ. Seasonable from March to October. ^Nole.—Tho above recipe may bo vr ricd, by adding vegetables, such as pe.-is cucumbers, lettuces, green onions cut in slices, a dozen or two of gfi'een goose- berries (not seedy), all of which should be fried a little with the meat, and then stewed la the gi*avy. VEAL RISSOLES (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—A few slices of cold roast; veal, a few slices of ham or bacon, 11 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 table- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, 11 blade of pounded mace, a very li lid-' prated nutmeg, cnyenno and salt to r;i<te, 2 eggs well beaten, bread-crumbs. Mode. —Mince the veal very finely wiih a liltio ham or bacon ; add the parsley, herbs,, spices, and seasoning ; mi.\ into a pastoj with an egg; form into balls or cones;; brush these over with egg, sprinkle withi bread-crumbs, and fiy a rich brown. Serve with brown gravy, and garnish the dish with fried parsley. Time.—About: 10 minutes to fry the ris.soles. Season' able from March to October. VEAL ROLLS (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Tho remains of a colJi fillet of veal, cpg and bread-crumbs, a< few slices of fat bacon, forcemeat. Mode. —Cut a few slices from a cold filkt of voal -