THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 175 Lamb Cutlets fixed, it will come away with just a little more exercise of the knife. In dividing the shoulder and breast, the carver should take care not to cut away too much oi the meat from the latter, as SOBE-QTJAETBB OF LAMB. that -would rather spoil its appearance when the shoulder is removed. The breast and shoulder being separated, it is usual to lay a small piece of butter, and sprinkle a little cayenne, lemon- juice, and salt between them ; and when this is melted and incorporated with the meat and gravy, the shoulder may, as more convenient, be removed into .another dish. The next operation is to separate the ribs from the brisket, by cutting through the meat on the lino 6 to 6. The joint is then ready to be served to the guests ; the ribs being carved in the direction of the lines from 9 to 10, and the brisket from 7 to 8. The carver should ask those at the table what parts they prefer—ribs, biisket, or a piece of the shoulder. LAMB CUTLETS. Ingredients.—Loin of lamb, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Trim off the flap from a fine loin of lamb, and cut it into cutlets about ^ inch in thickness. Have ready a bright clear fire ; lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil them of a nice paje brown, turning them when required. Jeason them with pepper and salt; serve very hot and quickly, and garnish with crisped parsley, or place them on mashed potatoes. Asparagus, spinach, or peas iro the favourite accompaniments to lamb chops. Time. — About 8 or 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. per lb. Suf- tcienl.—Allow 2 cutlets to each person. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Cutlets and Spinach, (an Entree). Ingredients.—8 cutlets, egg and bread orumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little pjftrified butter, i/oc^e.—Cut the cutlets Lamb, Koast Fore-quarter of from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cutting off the thick part of the chine- bone. Trim off most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Kow dip them into claiiHed butter, sprinkle over a few more bread crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Ijay them before the fire to drain, and arrange them on a dish with spinach in the centre, which should be previously well boiled, drained, chopped, and seasoned. Time.—About 7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, \0d. per lb. Snjjii ient for 4 persi)ns. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. Note. — Peas, aspaiagus, or French beans, may be substituted for the spinach; or lamb cutlets may be served with stewed cucumbers, Soubise sauce, &c., &o. LAMB, Roast Fore-quarter of. Ingredients. — Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—To obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that it requires; and though the meat may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up rOEE-QUAETEB OF LAMB. the fire in good time, that it may be clear and brisk when the joint is put down. Place it at a sufficient distance to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment of serving. Lamb should be very thoroxigJdy done without being dried up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be visible, as in roast mutton: this rule is applicable to all young white meats. Serve with a little gr.avy made in the dripping-pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with it a tureen of mint sauce, and a fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh but- ter, and a little cayenne, should also be placed on the table, so that when the