lii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 327. Foather-beds and mattresses should bo turned every day, the former, also, will require to be well beaten and shaken. They should first seize it firmly by the top corners, and shake the feathers to the bottom. Then take it by the bottom corners and shake the feathers to the top. Then shake them down equally through it all, taking: care to break up any lumps. Then, when the feathers are evenly distributed throughout the whole, it should be smoothed down, and the mattress, if it be used, placed on gently and quite evenly. ^ 328. The under blanket comes next. It should come quite down to the bottom of the bed, and be spread smoothly without wrinkles. 329. Then the under sheet. It should be spread quite equally and evenly over the bed, no wrinkle, and should be tucked firmly in all round. I •330. Then the bolster. They should first hold it, one at each end, and shake it well; then beat the feathers out equally through the whole, and if the string or buttons of the case have become undone, re-fasten them. 331. Then the pillows. They should be well shaken and smoothed, and the buttons or strings fastened. 332. Then the upper sheet. This should be drawn up quite to the top of the bed. It should be put on quite evenly, and should be firmly tucked in at the bottom. 333. Then the blankets, one by one. They should be put on—first, at the top, not coming up quite as high as the sheet. They should be spread gently down, taking care not to draw the sheet, and should be tucked in at the bottom of the bed, 334. Then the counterpane should be spread over all very evenly and smoothly. It should not bo tucked in, but allowed to hang down on either side. 335. The bed-curtain should then be drawn up to the top, folded, and laid across over the bolster. 336. When one bed is done they should go to the next, and so through them all. When finished, the cook should retire to her downstairs work, while— THE HOUSEMAID SWEEPS AND DUSTS THE BEDROOMS. 337. It is not necessary to give a thorough sweeping to a bedroom every day. It is enough to lightly brush over the carpets with a hand-broom, collecting the dust as she goes in the dustpan ; but sl^e should particularly do so under the