178 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Landrail, to Carve bought. Sufficient—AUow 4 for a dish. Seasonable Irom August 12th to tho middle of Soptombor. LANDRAIL, to Carve. Landrail, being trussed like Snipe, with tho exception of its being drawn, may be carved iu the same manner. LAED, to Melt. _ Mult the inner fat of the pig, by put- ting it in a stone jar, and placing tliis in a saucepan of boiling water, previously Stripping off the skin. Let it simmer gently over a bright fire, and, as it melts, pour it carefully from tlie sediment. Put it into small jars or bladders for use, and keep it in a cool place. The flead or inside fat of the pig, before it is melted, makes exceedingly light crust, and is particularly wholesome. It may be pre- served a length of time by salting it well, and occasionally changing the brine. When wanted for use, wash and wipe it, and it will answer for making into paste as well as fresh lard. Avei-age cost, lOd. per lb. LARDIWG-. Ingredients.—Bacon and larding-needlo. Mode.—Bacon for larding should be firm and fat, and ought to be cured without any saltpetre, as this reddens white meats. Lay it on a table, the BACON POB WARDING, AJTD LABDING-NEISDLB. rinds downwards; trim off any rusty part, and cut it into slices of an equal thickness. Placo the slices one on the top of another, and cut them evenly into narrow strips, so arranging it that every piece of bacon is of tho same size. Bacon for fricaudeaux, poultry, and game, should be about 2 inches in length, and rather more than one-eighth of an inch in width. If for lai-ding fillets of beef or loin of veal, tho pi« ces of bacon must be thicker. The following recipe of Soyer is, we think, very explicit; and any cook, by following the directions here given, may bo able to lard, if not well, sutiicioutly for general use;— Larks, Roast " Have the fricandeau trimmed; !ay 1 lengthwise, upon a clean napkin aero;- your band, forming a kind of bi idge wit your thumb at tho part where you ai about to commence ; then with tbe pon of tho larding-needle make three distini lines across, ^ inch apart; run th needle into the third line, at the farthc side of tho fricandeau, and bring it ot at the first, placing (-ne of the lanloons i it; draw the needle through, leaving oi \ inch of the bacon at each line ; pre ceed thus to the end of the row; th' niake another line, ^ inch distant, stii in another row of lardoons, brin^in. them out at the second line, leavinir tli ends of the bacon out all the same lengtfc make tho next row again at the sani distance, bringing tho ends out betwee: the lardoons of the first row, proceedinij in this manner until the whole sur&M is larded in chequered rows. Everyll thing else is larded in a similar way y and, in the case of poultry, hold 'Sa breast over a charcoal fire for one minute or dip it into boiling water, in order t. make the flesh firm." LARK PIE (an Entree). Ingredients.—A few thin slices of beel the same of bacon, 9 larks, flour; fo stuffing, 1 teacujiful of bread crumbs ^ teaspoonfvd of minced Icmon-pei teaspoonfxd of minced parsley, 1 salt and pepper to taste, 1 teasjjoonfi chopped shalot, h pint of weak s or water, puff-p.iste. Mode.—JIak stuffing of bread crumbs, minced le: peel, parsley, .and the yolk of an all of which should be well mixed t ther; roll the larks in flour, and them. Line the bottom of a pie- with a few slices of beef and ba over these place the larks, and se with salt, pepper, minced parsley, _ chopped shalot, in the above proportion' Pour in tho stock or water, cover witl crust, and bako for an hour in a mode- rate oven. During the time the |>io is baking, shake it 2 or 3 times, to thickening the gravy, and serve vt Tivie.—1 hour. Average cost, 1«. u.(. yd dozen. Sufficient for 5 or C persons Seasonable.—In full season in November LARKS, Roast. Ingredient.'!. — Larks, egg and crumbs, fresh butter. Mode,^