THE DTCTTONAUY OF COOKERY. 210 Mutton, Boiled Log of not well lump, the joint, when it comes to table, will do credit neither to the butcher nor the cook, as it will not bo tcndor. Wash the outside well, lest it should ha\c a bad flavour from keeping; then flour it and put it down to a nice brisk fire, at some distance, so that it may gradually warm through. Keep continually basting, and about h hour before it is served, draw it nearer to the fire to get nicely brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, pour off the dripping, add a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Place a paper ruche on the bone, and send red-currant jelly and gravy in a tureen to table with it. Time.—About 4 hours. Average cost, IQd. pev lb. SicJJi- cient for 8 to 10 persons. Seasonable.— In best season from September to March. MUTTOIsr, Boiled Leg of. Ingredients. — Mutton, water, salt. Mode.—A log of mutton for boiling should not hang too long, as it will not look a good colour when dressed. Cut off the Bhank-bone, trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into sufficient boiling water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire,, where it should re- main till the finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be very careful that it does not boil fast, or the meat will be hard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about 2i hours after the wnter begins to sim- mer, a moderate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Serve with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table with it in a tureen. Time.—A moderate-sized leg of mutton of 9 lbs., 2;J hours after the water boils; one of 12 lbs., 3 hours. Average cost, 8.^d. per lb. Sufficient.— A moderate-sized leg of mutton for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonahle nearly all the year, but not so good in Juno, July, and August. ^Voie.—When meat is liked very tlio- ronqidy cooked, allow more time than Btated above. The liquor this joint was boiled in should bo converted into soup. MUTTON", iJoned Leg of, Stuffed. Ingredients.—A. small leg of mutton, weigliiDg 6 or 7 lbs., forcemeat, 2 sholots Mutton, Boast Leg of finely minced. Mode.—Make a force* meat, to which add 2 finely-minced sha- lots. Bone the leg of mutton, without spoiling the skin, and cut off a great deal of the fat. Fill the hole up whence the bone was taken with the forcemeat, and sew it up underneath, to prevent its falling out. Bind and tie it up com- pactly, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about 2^ hours or rather longer; remove the tape and send it to table with a good gravy. It may be glazed or not, as preferred. Time.—2i hours, or rather longer. Average cost, is. 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTOW, Braised Leg of. Ingredients.—1 small leg of mutton, 4 carrots, 3 onions, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a bunch of parsley, seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, a few slices of bacon, a few veal trimmings, h pint of gravy or water. Mode.—Line the bot- tom of a braising-pan with a few slices of bacon, put in the carrots, onions, herbs, parsley, and seasoning, and over these place the mutton. Cover the whole with a few more slices of bacon and the veal trimmings, pour in the gravy or water, and stew very gently for 4 hours. Strain the gravy, reduce it to a glaze over a sharp fii-o, glaze the mut- ton with it, and send it to table, placed on a dish of white haricot beaus boiled tender, or garnished with glazed onions. Time.—i hours. Average cost, 5s. Svffi- cient for C or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Roast Leg of. Ingredients.—Leg of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—A.s mutton, when freshly killed, is never tender, hang it almost as lEQ OF UUTTOS'. long as it will keep ; flour it, and put U in a cool airv place for a few days, if the weather will permit. Wash off the flour, wipe it very dry, and cut oiT the