xvii Daily House-Work. 95. Servants should never be reproved before each other or before anyone. If there is occasion for more than a word of direction, a lady should ring for her I servant and speak kindly and seriously to her, showing a willingness to help her, though by no means slighting over the subject in question, or allowing any : timidity of demeanour to appear. 96. Domestic Quarrels often embitter the peace of households and c&use dis- i missals ; these can be quelled by a gentle firmness and the following rules :—Never ; listen to what one servant says of another ; never ask a question about a new com'er of the old trusted servant; if angry voices and loud talk reach your ear, ring for the I delinquents, and before both say, " I have no wish to interfere with your quarrels ; j say and do what you please ; but / must never hear a sound of dispute or anger ; in this house." The utter absurdity of being alloivecl to quarrel will, in most j cases, prevent a repetition of the offence ; and as this is a tried recipe for domestic j broils, we give it verbatim. 97. But it is only a gentlewoman who can say this—one who never is betrayed ; into an angry word or cross retort; example and precept must go hand in hand. Our experience is, that in life what we believe people to be, we riiake them. "1 believe you to be honest," has kept many a poor tempted soul from evil, and it is the duty of mistresses to guard their household as they would their children from opportunities of doing wrong. Young girls should not be sent out late at night to post letters or to fetch beer; should be advised to put by a little of each quarter's money in the post-office savings-bank ; should be counselled as to what is nice to buy in the way of dress ; should never be given old finery ; should be lent nice books, not only i-eligious but amusing works ; should be led to take an interest in the garden, or in the growing flowers, the birds or animals of the house; and in the children, for if the children are not utterly spoiled, and the I maids not utterly bad, they cannot help taking an interest in the nursery. 98. If " suspicion haunts" the mistress's mind (we are supposing her to be a sensible, kind-hearted person), her best plan is to change her servants; she : cannot be comfortable with them, and there is usually more or less ground for : these doubts. A mistress cannot follow her stores into the kitchen and see that every ounce is carefully used, but she can resist the continual petty larceny, which destroys all her attempts at economy and heavily burdens her purse. 99. Ekgaging Servants.—This important business is usually thought a pleasing , excitement by one class of mistresses, who are constantly changing, and who do I not know how to appreciate a good servant; or a dreadful trouble and worry by : those who are idle or careless. ^ 100. If a lady will reflect upon the importance of engaging a good servant, she 1 will hesitate before taking a written character, unless under very exceptional j circumstances. There are four ways of obtaining servants : inquiring of trades