201 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Mullet, Grey dd it to the soup •with the almonds, s-hich must be firet pounded with a little if the stock. Put in seasoning and omou-piekle or mango-juice to taste, and ci-vo boiled rice with it. Time.—2 hours. i^Hffe cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Season- hie in winter. Sufficient for S persons. Note.—This soup can also be made :ith breast of veal, or calf's head. Vege- able mullagatawny is made with veal tock, by boiling and pulping chopped cgetable marrow, cucumbers, onions, nd tomatoes, and seasoning with curry owder and ca3^enne. Nice pieces of leat, good curry powder, and- strong tock, are necessary to make this soup ood. ITJLLET, Grey. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each allon of water. Mode.—If the fish be ery large, it should be laid in cold ater, and gradually brought to a boil; ' small, put it in boiling water, salted 1 the above proportion. Serve with iichovy sauce and plain melted butter, 'me.—According to size, ^ to ^ hour. vcrage cost, Sd. per lb. Seasonable from uly to October, lUIiLET, Ked. Ingredient's.—Oiled paper, thickening I butter and flour, ^ teaspoonful of an- lovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry ; cayenne ad salt to taste. Mode.—Clean the sh, take out the gills, but leave the iside, fold in oiled paper, and bake them sntly. When done, take the liquor that aws from the fish, add a thickening of atter kneaded with flour; put in the ;her ingredients, and let it boil for minutes. Serve the sauce in a tureen, id the fish, cither with or without the iper cases. Time.—About 2o minutes. verage cost. Is. each. Seasonable at ly time, but more plentiful in summer. Note.—Red mullet may be broiled, and lould be folded in oiled paper, the same 1 in the preceding recipe, and seasoned ith pepper and salt. They may bo Wved without sauce ; but if any is re- I ired, use melted butter, Italian or ■hchovy sauce. They should never be ■afn boiled. ■USHROOM KETCHUP. mlngredienis.—To each peck of mush- Bonis i lb, of Bait; to each quart of Musliroom Ketcliup mushroom-liquor ^ oz, of cayenne, ^ oz. of allspice, i oz, of ginger, 2 blades of pounded mace. Mode.—Choose full- grown mushi'oom flaps, and take caro they are perfectly fresh gathered when the weather is tolerably dry ; for, if they are picked dui-ing very heavy rain, the ketchup from which they are made is liable to get musty, and will not kedp long. Put a layer of them in a deep pan, sprinkle salt over them, and then another layer of mushrooms, and so on alter- nately. Let them I'emain for a few hours, when break them up with the hand ; put them in a nice cool place for 3 days, occasionally stirring and mashing them well, to extract from them as much juice as possible. Now measure the quantity of liquor without straining, and to each quart allow the above proportion of sjiices, &c. Put all into a stone jar, cover it up very closely, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it over the fire, and let it boil for 3 hours. Have ready a nice clean stewpan ; turn into it the contents of the jar, and let the whole simmer very gently for | hour ; pour it into a jug, where it should stand in a cool place till the nest day; then pour it off into another jug, and strain it into very dry clean bottles, and do not squeeze the mushrooms. To each pint of ketchup add a few drops of brandy. Be careful not to sliake the contents, but leave all the sediment behind in the jug; cork well, and either seal or rosin the cork, so as perfectly to exclude the air. When a very clear bright ketchup is wanted, the liquor must be strained through a very fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, (i/iferithaa been very gently poured off ; if the opera- tion is not successful, it must be repeated until you have quits a clear liquor. It should bo examined occasionally, and if it is spoiling, should be reboiled with a few peppercorns. Seasonable from the beginning of September to the middle of October, when this ketchup should be made. Note.—This flavouring ingredient, if genuine and well prepared, is one of the most useful store sauces to the experienced cook, and no trouble should be spared in its preparation. Double ketchup is made by reducing the liquor to half the quan- tity ; for e.Kample, 1 quart must be boiled down to 1 pint. This goes fai-thcr than ordinaiy kotchup, as so little is required to flavour a good quantity of gravy.