275 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Pudding, Marlborougli PUDDlJMUr, Marlborough.. Ingredienis.—l lb. of butter, \ lb. of powdered lump sugar, 4 eggs, puff-paste, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.—Beat the butter to a '.ream, stir in the pow- dered sugai-, w'jisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When these are well mixed, line a dish with puff-paste, spread over a layer of any kind of jam that may be preferred, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding for rat) er more than ^ hour. Time.— Rathej more than ^ hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Season- able at any time. PTJDDIWG, Military. Tngredients.—^ lb. of suet, \ lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of moist sugar, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.— Chop the suet finely, mix it with the bread-crumbs and sugar, and mince the lemon-rind and strain the juice; stir these into the other ingredients, mix well, and put the mixture into small buttered cups, and bake for rather more than ^ hour; turn them out on the dish, and serve with lemon-sauce. The above in- gredients may be made into small balls, and boiled for about ^ hour ; they should then \e served with the same sauce as when \)aked. Time.—Rather more than ■3 hour Average cost, 9d. S%ifficient to fill 6 0) 7 moderate-sized cups. Season- able at any time. PUDDING, Monday's. Ingredients. — The remains of cold plum-pudding, brandy, custard made ivith 6 eggs to every pint of milk. Mode.—Cut the remains of a good cold plum-pudding into finger-pieces, soak them in a little brandy, and lay them sross-barred in a mould until full. Make i custard with the above proportion of milk and eggs, flavouring it with nut- nneg or Icmon-rind; fill up the mould ivith it; tie it down with a cloth, and 3oil or steam it for an hour. Serve with I little of the custard poured over, to ivhich has been added a tablespoonful of jrandy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, )xclusivo of the pudding, Qd. Sufficient 'or 5 or 6 porsona. Seasonable afc any Pudding, Pease PUDDING-, Nesselrode (a fasMon- able Iced Pudding —Catenae's Kecipe). Ingredients.— 40 chestnuts, 1 lb. of sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, ^ pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs. Mode. —Blanch the chestnuts in the boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of synip. Then rub them through a fine sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of syrup made from 1 lb. of sugar, clarified, and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mix- ture over a slow fire, stirring it witJioui ceasing, and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set; then add the sliced citron, the currants, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day pre- viously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla); the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pine-apple-shaped mould; close the lid, place it again in the freezing-pan, covered over with pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain until required for table; then turn the pudding out, and serve. Time.—I hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable from October to February. PUDDING, Paradise. Ingredients.—d eggs, 3 apples, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 3 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of currants, salt and grated nutmeg to taste, the rind of ^ lemon, ^ wineglass- ful of brandy. 31ode.—P&VQ, core, and mince the apples into small pieces, and mix them with the other dry ingi-edients; beat up the eggs, moisten the mixture with these, and beat it well; stir in the brandy, and put the pudding into a buttered mould ; tie it down with a cloth, boil for 1^ hour, and servo with sweet sauce. Time.—labour. Averagt cost, Is. Suffiicicnt for 4''or 5 persons. PUDDING, Pease. Ingredients.—1^ pint of split peas, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, pepper aud salt