(THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. so Beef, Broiled, and Mushroom Sauce over the meat, and the remainder send in a tureen. Time.—Rather more than 8 hours. Average cost, Id. per lb. Sujfi- cient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle at any time. JVote.—The remainder of the liquor in •which the beef was boiled may be served as a soup, or it may be sent to table with the meat in a tureen. BEEF, Broiled, and Musliroom Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 or 3 dozen small button mushrooms, 1 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, mashed potatoes, slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Wipe the mushrooms free from grit with apiece of flannel, and salt; put them in a stevrpan with the butter, sea- soning, and ketchup ; stir over the fire until the mushrooms are quite done, when pour it in the middle of mashed potatoes, browned. Then place round the pota- toes slices of cold roast beef, nicely broiled over a clear fire. In making the mushroom sauce the ketchup may be dis- pensed with, if there is sufficient gravy. Time.—i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 8d. Seasonable from Augiist to October. BEEF, Broiled, and Oyster Sauce. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 dozen oysters, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, ^ teaspoonful of flour, cayenne and salt to taste, mashed potatoes, a few slices of cold roast beef, il/orfe.—Put the oysters in a stcwpan, with their liquor strained; add the cloves, mnce, butter, flour, and season- jpg, and let them simmer gently for 5 minutes. Have ready in the centre of a dish round walls of mashed pota- toes, browned; into the middle pour the oyster sauce quite hot, and round the potatoes place, in layers, slices of the beef, which should bo previously broiled over a nice clear fire. Time.— minutes. Average cost, \s.Gd., cxclu- sivo of the cold meat. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Scasonahk from September to April BEEF BTJBBLE.AND-SaUEAK. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; Beef, Collared butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pep. per and salt to taste. Mode.—Fry the slices of beef gently in a little burcr, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover wi^ fried greens. The greens may be pre- pared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till ten- der, well drained, minced, and placed till quite hot in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper \ and salt. When the onion is done it u ready to serve. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the col3 beef, 3d. Seasonable at any time. t BEEF CAKE. I [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. ■ \ —The remains of cold roast beef; to pound of cold meat allow | lb. of I: or ham; seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, 1 small bunch of minced savr^n- herbs, 1 or2 eggs. Mode.—Mince th^ very finely (if underdone it vrill be be; , add to it the bacon, which must also be chopped very small, and mix well tojfe- ther. Season, stir in the herbs, and bind with an egg, or 2 should 1 not be sufficient. Make it into small square cakes, about ^ inch thick, fry them in hot dripping, drain them, and serve in a dish with good gravy poured ro- -^d Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, c sive of the cold meat, 6d. Seasonable auy time. BEEF, Collared. Ingredients.—7 lbs. of the thin eOTl of the flank of beef, 2 oz. of co.irs^ sugar, 6 oz. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpeti 1 large handflil of parsley, minced, '1 C0I.LABKD BBTiF. dossort-spoonful of minced sage, a biin^ of savoury herbs, A teaspoonful pounded allspice; salt and pepper taste. Mode.—ChoosQ fine tender b< but not too fat; lay it in a dish, rub ' ii