THE DICTIONARY OF COOKER?. 350 Turkey, Roast nicely wiping, as we havo just stated. Cut off the neck close to the back, but leave enough of the crop-skin to turn over; break the leg-bone close below the knee, draw out the strings from the thighs, and flatten the breastbone to make it look plump. Have ready a forcemeat; fill the breast with this, and, if a trussing-needle is used, sew the neck over to the back; if a needle is not at hand, a skewer will answer the purpose. Run a skewer through the pinion and thigh into the body to the pinion and thigh on the other side, and press the BOAST TUEKBT. legs as much as possible between the breast and the side-bones, and put the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other. Pass a string across the back of the bird, catch it over the points of the skewer, tie it in the centre of the back, and be particular that the turkey is very firmly trussed. This may bo more easily accomplished with a needle and twine than witb skewers. Mode.—Fasten a sheet of buttered paper on to the breast of the bird, put it down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer), anri keep it well basted the whole of the tim it is cooking. About | hour before e.vinj^, remove the paper, dredge the turkey lightly with Hour, and put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it. When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown gravy and one of bread sauce. Fried sausages arc a favourite addition to roast turkey ; tlicy make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. When these are not at hand, a few force- moat balls should be placed round the dish as a garnish. Turlcey may also bo stufl'ed with sausage-meat, and a chest- nut forcemeat with the chestnut sauce is, by many persons, very much esteemed as an accompaniment to this favourite dish* Time.—Small turkey, hour ; moderate-sized one, about 10 lbs., 2 hours ; large turkey, 2^ hours, or longer. Average cost, from lOil to 12s., but ex- Turkey Poults, Roast pensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. SufficieiU.—A moderate- sized turkey for 7 or 8 persons, fieason- able from December to February. TURKEY, Roast. A noblo dish is a turkey, roast or boiled. A Christmas dinner, with the middle-classes of this empire, would scarcely be a Christmas dinner without its turkey ; and we can hardly imagino an object of greater envy than is pre- sented by a respected portly pater- familias carving, at the season devoted to good cheer and genial charity, his own fat turkey, and carving it well. The ouly art consists, as in the carving of a goose, in getting from the breast as many fine slices as possible ; and all must havo remarked the very great diflerence in the large number of people whom a good carver will find slices for, and the com- paratively few that a bad carver will succeed in serving. As we have stated BOAST TUBKET. in both the carving of a duck and goose, the carver should commence cutting slices to the wing, from 2 to 3, and then proceed upwards towards the ridge of the breastbone: this is not the usual plan, but, in practice, will be found the best. The breast is the only part which IS looked on as fine in a turkey, the legs beii:g very seldom cut oQ" and eaten at table : they are usually removed to the kitchen, where they are taken off, as hero mai-kcd, to appetir only in a form which seems to have a special attraction at a ■ bachelor's supper-table,—wo mean ilo- villcd : served in this waj', they are espo- cially liked and relished. A boiled tur- key is carved in the same manner as • when roasted. TURKEY POULTS, Roast. Ingredients.—Turkey poult; butter. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose a plump ■ bird, and truss it in the foUonnng man- ■ nor:—After it has been carefully plucked, drawn, and singed, skin the neck, and. fasten the bead under the wing; turn ih« i