TflE DICTIONAEY op COOKERl?. 349 Turkey, Croquettes of Average cost, 5s. 6d. to 7s. Qd. each, but more expensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from December to February. rURKET. Croquettes of (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients. — The remains of cold turkey ; to every \ lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham or bacon, 2 shalots, 1 oz, of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, egg and bread-crumbs. Mode.— fhe smaller pieces, that will not do for a fricassee or hash, answer very well for this dish. Mince the meat finely with ham or bacon in the above proportion; make a gravy of the bones and trimmings, well seasoning it; mince the shalots, put them into a stewpan with the butter, add the flour; mix well, then put in the mince, and about h pint of the gravy made from the bones. (The proportion of the butter must be increased or di- minished according to the quantity of minco.) When just boiled, add the yolks of 2 eggs ; put the mixture out to' cool, and then shape it in a wineglass. Cover the croquettes with egg and bread- crumbs, and fry them a delicate brown. Put small pieces of parsley-stems for stalks, and serve with rolled bacon cut very thin. Time.—8 minutes to fry the croquettes. Seasonable from December to February. TURKEY, Fricasseed (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast or boiled turkey; a strip of lemon-peel, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, the yolk of an egg. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from the remains of a cold turkej', and put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with the lemon-peel, herbs, onion, pep- er, salt, and the water; stew for an our, strain the gravy, and lay in the pieces of turkey. When warm through, add the cream and the yolk of an egg; stir it well round, and, when getting thick, take out the pieces, lay them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish tho fricassee with sippets of toafetftd bread. Celery or cucumbers, cut into small pieces, may bo put into the sauce j if the former, it must be Turkey, Boast boiled first. Time.—I hoiu- to make tho gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, id. Seasonable from De- cember to February. TURKEY, Hashed. higredients.—^The remains of cold roas turkey, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 car- rot, 1 turnip, 1 blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port wine, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—G\it the turkey into neat joints; the best pieces reserve for the hash, the inferior joints and trimmings put into a stewpan with an onion cut in slices, pepper and salt, a carrot, turnip, mace, herbs, and water in the above proportion; simmer these for an hour, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, flavour with ketchup and port wine, and lay in the pieces of turkey to warm through ; if there is any stuSing left, put that in also, as it so much improves the flavour of the gravy. When it boils, servo, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy. Sea' sonable from December to February. TURKEY, Roast. Ingredients. — Turkey ; forcemeat. Choosing and Trussing. —Choose cock turkeys by their short spurs and black legs, in which case they are young; if the spiu-s are long, and the legs pale and rough, they are old. If the bird has been long killed, the eyes will appear sunk and the feet very dry ; but, if fresh, the contrary will be the case. Middling- sized fleshy turkeys are by many per- sons considered superior to those of an immense growth, as they are, generally speaking, much more tender. They should never be dressed the same day they are killed; but, in cold weather, should hang at least 8 days; if the wea- ther is mild, 4 or 5 days will be found sufficient. Carefully pluck the bird, singe it with white paper, and wipe it thoroughly with a cloth; draw it, pre- serve the liver and gizzard, and be parti- cular not to break the gall-bag, as no washing will remove the bitter taste it imparts where it once touches. Wash it inside well, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth; the outside merely rcquirea