im To ThorougWy Clean and Scour a Bedroom, bods, where fluff collects the most. Having swept one bedroom, she should now dust it and finish it off before going to another. She shoulci dust every article in the room carefully. She should remove the looking-glass, bottles, boxes, &c., from the dressing-table, and dust it thoroughly ; and she should carefully dust the looking-glass and other things before replacing them. She should dust each of the chairs, the wardrobe, and chest of drawers, removing any article that may bo on the top of the latter, and dusting under them ; the same with the chimney- piece. She must also dust the door and the sills and ledges of the windows. She should then fill all the jugs and bottles with clean cold water, and, having shut all the bedroom doors, she should— SWEEP DOWN THE STAIKS. 338. Which should be done with a hand-broom and dustpan, collecting the dust as she goes. When the stairs and closet are swept down she should dust down the banisters, rubbing the handrail well; also the lobby windows, frames, sills, and ledges; and the outsides of all the doors, going thoroughly over all the panels. 339. Besides this daily "doing up," every bedroom in a house should get a thorough cleaning once a week ; and", if not cai*peted all over, should be scoured once every three weeks. 340. This in a house -with four bedrooms—two large and two small—would give one large bedroom to be done on Tuesday, one oa Wednesday, and the two small on Thursday. The housemaid would then have Friday for the drawing-room, and Saturday for plate-cleaning, lamp-cleaning, &c. If any washing be done at home, Monday is the best day for it, and no other extra work should be done on that day. 341. TO THOROTJaHLY CLEAN AND SCOUR A BEDROOM. The slops will have been emptied, of course, but no other work done in it previously. 842. Having brought up a furniture dusting brush and a duster, she will begin by removing the bed, mattress, and palliasse from the bedstead. She will then dust the bedstead thoroughly, going into all the joints and crevices ; then brush the mattress. She will then remove the sheets and pillows and bolster-cases, and place them in the soiled-clothes basket, and having replaced the bed, mattresses, bolster, pillows, blankets, and counterpane on the bedstead, but without making the bed, she will cover all with a large dusting-sheet. She will then fold and pin up as high as she can the bed and window curtains, and remove the soiled muslin blinds and toilet cover, and place them in the soiled-clothes basket. She will then remove from the bedroom the towel-stand, all clothes that may be hanging on pegs, the looking-glass and all small ornamental articles from the dressing.