THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 164 January, Plain Family Dinners JANUARY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Boiled turbot and oyster Bauco, potatoes. 2. Roast log or griskin of pt rk, apple sauce, brocoli, potatoes. 8. Cabinet pudding, and damson tart made wiih preserved damsons. Monday.—1. The remains of turbot •warmed in oyster sauce, potatoes. 2. Cold pork, stewed steak. 3. Open jam tart, wbicb should have been made with the pieces of paste left from the damson tart; baked arrowroot pudding. Timday.—1. Boiled neck of mutton, carrots, mashed turnips, suet dumplings, and caper sauce: the broth should bo served first, and a little rice or pearl barley should be boiled in it along with the meat. 2. Rolled jam pudding, Wednesday.—1. Roast rolled ribs of beef, greens, potatoes, and horseradish sauce. 2. Bread-and-butter pudding, cheesecakes. Thursday. — 1. Vegetable soup (the bones from the ribs of beef should be boiled down with this soup), cold beef, mashed potatoes. 2. Pheasants, gravy, bread sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Fried whitings or soles. 2. Boiled rabbit and onion sauce, minced beef, potatoes. 3. Currant dumplings. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pudding or pie, greens, and potatoes. 2. Baked custard pudding and stewed apples. Sunday.—1. Codfish and oyster sauce, potatoes. 2. Joint of roast mutton, ei- ther leg, haunch, or saddle ; brocoli and potatoes, red-currant jelly. 3. Apple tart and custai-ds, cheese. Monday.—1. The remains of codfish picked from the bone, and warmed through in the oyster sauce; if there is no sauce left, order a few oysters and make a little fresh ; and do not let the fish boil, or it will be watery. 2. Curried rabbit, with boiled rice served separately, cold mutton, mashed potatoes. 3. Somer- setshire dumplings with wine sauce. Tuesday.—1. Boiled fowls, parsley-and- butter; bacon garnished with Brussels sprouts ; minced or hashed mutton. 2. Baroness pudding. Wednesday.—'].. The remains of the fowls cut up into joints and fricasseed ; joint of roast pork and apple sauce, and, if liked, sago and-onion, sei-ved on a dish by itself; turnips and potatoes. 2. Iiemon pwdding, either baked or boiled. Jaunemange Thursday.—!. Cold pork and jugj^ed hare, red-currant jelly, mashed potatoes, 2. Apple pudding. Friday.—1. Boiled beef, either the aitchbone or the silver sideof the round; carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, and. potatoes; if there is a marrow-bono,' serve the marrow on toast at the same time. 2. Rice snowballs. Saturday. — 1. Pea-soup made from liquor in which beef was boiled; cold . beef, mashed potatoes. 2. Baked batter • fruit pudding. JANUARY, Tilings in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, , crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, . herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whit- ings. Meat. — Beef, house lamb, mutton, , pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Capons, fowls, tame pigeons,, pullets, rabbits, turkeys. Game. — Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipe, wild-fowl, woodcock. Vegetables. — Beetroot, brocoli, cab- bages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses,, | cucumbers (forced), endive, lettuces, par- snips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, turnips, various herbs. Fmit.—Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, ! oranges, pears, walnuts, crystallized pre- I serves (foreign), dried fruits, such as? I almonds and raisins; French and Spanish | plums; prunes, figs, dates. JAUNEMANGE, Ingredients.—1 oz. of isinglass, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of white wine, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 6 eggs. Mode.—Put the isinglass, water, and loraon-rind into a saucepan, and boil gently until the former is dissolved; then add the strained lemon-juice, the wine, and suf- ficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Boil for 2 or 3 minutes, strain the mixture into a jug, and add the yolks of the eggs, winch should be well beaten ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water ; keep stirring the mixture one way until it thickens, hut do not i allow it to boil; then take it off the fire, X and keep stirring until nearl\' cold. Pour i it into a mould, omitting the sediment f at the bottom of the jug, and let it rp- i If