292 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Rice, to Boil, for Curries into it, and keep it boiling qiiickly, with the lid uncovered, until it is tender, but not soft. Take it up, drain it, and put it on a dish before the fire to dry ; do not handle it much with a spoon, but shake it about a little with two forks, that it may all be equally dried, and Btrew over it a little salt. It is now ready to serve, and may be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or be laid round the dish as a border, with a curry or fricassee in the centre. Some cooks Bmooth the rice with the back of a epoon, and then brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and set it in the oven to colour; but the rice, well boiled, white, dry, and with every grain distinct, is by far the more preferable mode of dressing it. During the process of boiling, the rice should be attentively watched, that it be not overdone, as, if this is the case, it will have a mashed and soft api^ear- ance. Time.—15 to 25 minutes, accord- ing to the quality of the rice. Average cost, 3d, Sufficient for a large dish of curry. Seasonable at any time. EICE, To Boil, for Curries, &c. (Soyer's Recipe.) Ingredients.—1 lb. of the best Caro- lina rice, 2 quarts of water, 1^ oz. of butter, a little salt. Mode.—Wash the rice well in two waters; make 2 quarts of water boiling, and throw the rice into it; boU it until three-parts done, then drain it on a sieve. Butter the bottom and sides of a stewpan, put in the rice, place the lid on tightly, and set it by the side of the fire, until the rice is perfectly tender, occasionally shaking the pan to prevent its sticking. Prepared thus, every grain should be separate and white. Either dish it separately, or place it round the curry as a border. Time.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, 7d. Suffi- cient for 2 moderate-sized curries. Sea- toiuible at any time. HOASTIWa, Memoranda in. The management of the fire is a point of primary importance in roasting. A radiant fire thi-oughout the operation is absolutely necessary to insure a good *'e6ult. When the article to be dressed 18 thin and delicate, the fire may be small; but when the joint is large the fire must fill tho grate. Meat must never be put down before a hollow or exhausted ^re, wjiich may soon want recruiting; Rolls, Hot on tho other hand, if the heat of the fir become too fierce, the meat must b removed to a considerable distance ti it has somewhat abated. Some cook always fail in roasting, though they sue ceed in nearly everything else. 1 French writer on the culinary art say that anybody can learn how to cook but one must be bom a roaster. Accor ding to Liebig, beef or mutton canno bo said to ba sufficiently roasted, unti it has acquired throughout the whol mass a temperature of 158°. But poultr , may be well cooked when the inner part { have attained a temperature of 130° tr. 110°. This depends on the greate^ amount of blood which beef and muttoi contain, the colouring matter of blooc not being coagulable under 158°. ROLLS, Excellent. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flou:: allow 1 oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk-; a large teaspoonful of yeast, a little salt: Mode.—Warm tho butter in the milk-: add to it the yeast and salt, and mLu these ingredients well together. Put thi flour into a pan, stir in the above ingre BOLLS. dients, and let the dough rise, coverec in a warm place. Knead it well, mak« * it into rolls, let them rise again for a few' minutes, and bake in a quick oven.". Richer rolls may be made by adding! or 2 eggs and a larger proportion o butter, and their appearance improve by brushing the tops over with yolk c egg or a little milk. Time.—1 lb. r flour, divided into 6 rolls, from 15 to - minutes. ROLLS, Hot. This dish, although very unwholesome and indigestible, is nevertheless great favourite, and eaten by man] persons. As soon as tho rolls come from tho baker's, they should be put into the oven, which, in the early part of th; morning, is sure not to be very hot; an ; the rolls must not be buttered until wanted. When they are quite l'o<. divide them lengthwise into three some thin flakes of good butter be . 'ti'