3G4 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. Vonison, Haunch of, to Carvo btiUer until it is nicely frothed, and of a iiico palo-biown colour y garnish tho knucklo-bono with a frill of white paper, nnil sorvo with a good, strong, but un- (lavourcd gravy, in a turocn, and currant jolly; or molt tho jolly with a little port wine, and servo that also in a turoen. As the principal object in roasting veni- son is to preserve the fat, the above ia tho best mode of doing so where expense is not objected to ; but, in ordinary cases, the paste may bo dispensed with, and a double paper placed over tho roast instead: it will not require so long cooking without tho paste. Do not omit to send very hot plates to table, as the venison fat so soon freezes: to bo thoroughly enjoyed by epicures, it should be eaten on hot-water plates. The neck and shoulder may be roasted in the same manner. Time.—A large haunch of buck vonison, with the paste, 4 to 5 hours ; haunch of doe venison, 3| to 3;j hours. Allow less time w'ithout the paste. Average cost, Is. id. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 18 persons. Sea- sonahle.—Buck venison in greatest per- fection from June to Michaelmas; doe venison from November to the end of January. VENISOlf, to Carve Haunch of. Here is a grand dish for a knight of the carving-knife to exercise his skill upon, and, what will be pleasant for many to know, there is but little diffi- culty in the performance. An incision being made completely down to ,the bone, in the direction of the line 1 to" 2, tho gravy will then bo able easily to flow ; when slices, not too thick, should be out HAUNCH OF VENISOK. along the haunch, as indicated by the line 1 to 3 ; that end of the joint marked 3 having been turned towards the carver, so that he may have a more complete command over the joint. Although some epicures affect to believe that some parts of the haunch are superior to other?, yet wo doubt if there is any difference between the slices cut above and below the lino. It should be borne Vermicelli Soup in mind to servo each guest with a por- tion of fat; and tho most expeditious carver will be the best carver, as, like nmtton, venison soon begins to chill, when it loses much of its charm. VENISON, Stewed. Ingredients.—A. shoulder of venison, a few slices of mutton fat, 2 glasses of port wine, pepper and allspice to taste, Ih pint of weak stock or gravy, A tea- spoonful of whole pepper, ^ teaspoonlul of whole allspice. J/ocZe.—Hang the venison till tender; take out tho bone, flatten tho meat with a rolling-pin, and place over it a few slices of mutton fat, which have been previously soaked for 2 or 3 hours in port wine; sprinkle these with a little fine allspice and pepper, roll the meat up, and bind and tie it securely. Put it into a stewpan with the bono and the above proportion of weak stock or gravy, whole allspice, black pepper, and port wine ; cover the lid down closely, and simmer, very gently, from 3i to 4 hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, and dish the meat; strain the gravy over it, and send it to table with red currant jelly. Un- less the joint is very fat, the above is the best mode of cooking it. Time.— 3i to 4 hours. Average cost, Is. id. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sujjicieni for 10 or 12 persons. Seasonable. — Buck venison, from June to Michaelmas; doe venison, from November to tho end of January. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Ingredients.—4 oz. of vermicelli, \\ pint of milk, h pint of cream, 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of" sugar, 4 eggs. Mode.— Boil the vermicelli in the milk until it ia tender; then stir in the remaining ingre- dients, omitting the cream, if not obtain- able. Flavour tho mixture with grated lemon-rind, essence of bitter almonds,. or vanilla; butter a pie-dish; line the. edges with puff-paste, put in the pud-- ding, and bake in a moderate oven for: about ^ hour. Time,—f hour. Ave- rage cost, Is. 2d. without cream. Siiffi- cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at', any time. VERMICELLI SOUP. Ingredients.—lb. of bacon, stuck, with cloves; .J oz. of butter, worked up in flour; 1 small fowl, trussed for boiU J