Iv To Scour the Boom. 352. The window-panes being washed, she should wash the sills and ledges. 353. She should also wash the china plates and handles of the door, and any part of the paint that may be dirty; but this, as also the paint of the window- sills and ledges, should be done with cold water and soap, and very carefully, or the paint will be injured. 354. In doing all this work, she should frequently empty her bowl into the pail, and refill it with clean water. 355. Her next work, having removed the bowl, cloths, &c., will be to— SCOUR THE ROOM. 356. Boards that are scoured regularly once every three weeks require nothing more than plenty of clean cold soft water and hard scrubbing with a good scrub- bing-brush, to make and keep them a good colour ; but if they have been allowed to get very dirty, hot water, soda, and a little soap will be necessary. The house- maid should bring up a good large pail of water, a scrubbing-brush, and a clean house-flannel. She should begin to scour at the end of the room farthest from the door and work towards it. She should first scrub well a portion as far as she can reach kneeling, using plenty of Wciter; then wipe it off dry with the flannel, move a little, and do the next portion ; but she should take care to leave not the smallest bit of board unscrubbed or less scrubbed than the rest. If she use soap she must be careful to wash it oflf well again with the flannel, else the boards will blacken. She should empty her pail and refill it with fresh water very frequently, it will save trouble in the end, for it is impossible to wash anything clean with dirty water. 857. As soon as the room is all scoured out she should open the windows and the door to allow a thorough draught to pass through the room and dry it. In winter a fire should be lighted. But a bedroom should never be scoured in wet or even damp weather. 358. As soon as the room is dry, the cook will come up and assist her to make the bed, on which she will put clean sheets, bolster, and piUow-cases. 359. She will then bring back and lay down the carpets ; if possible they should first be shaken. Bring back the fender and fire-irons and all the furniture orna- ments and clothes which she had removed, and rearrange them in their proper places. She should put up clean blinds, put on a clean toilet-cover, and polish the looking-glass ; then, having filled the jug and bottle with fresh cold water, the room will be quite finished.