104 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Dessert Dishes Box of Cliocolate.—This is served iu an orna- mental box, placed on a glass plate or dish. Reason- able. — May BOX OF OnoCOLATB, be purchased at any time. Devonshire Junket D'sh of Apples.—The applesshould be nicely wiped with a dry cloth, and arranged on a dish, piled high in the centre, with evergreen leaves between each layer. The inferior apples should form the bot- tom layer, with the bright-colour- ed large ones at the top. The leaves of the laurel, bay, holly, or any shnab green in win- ter, are suitable for garnishing dessert dishes. Oranges may be arranged in the same manner ; they should also be wiped with a dry cloth before being sent to table. DISH OP APPLES. Dish of Mixed Siunmer Fruit.— This dish consists of cherries, raspberries, cui-rants, and strawberries, piled in dif- ferent layers, with plenty of leaves between each layer, so that each fruit is well sepa- rated. The fruit kshould be ar- ranged with a duo regard to colour, so that they contrast nicely one with the other. Our engravingshows «ISH OP MIXED SUIIMEB FHUIT. a layer of white chen-ies at the bottom, then one of red raspberries, over that a layer of white currants, and at the top Bomo fine scarlet strawberries. Season- able ill June, July, and August. Almonds and Baisins.—These aro OBually acrved on glass dishes, the fruit piled high in the centre, and the almonds blanched and strewn over. To blanch the almonds, put them into a small mug or teacup, pour over them boiling water, let them remain for 2 or 3 minutes, and the skins may then be easily removecJ. Figs, dates, French plums, &c., are all served on small glass plates or oval dishes, but without the almonds. ScasonalU at any time, but more suitable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. DISH OP STBAWBEBRIES. Dish of Strawberries.—Fine straw- berries, arranged in the manner shown in the engi-aving, look exceedingly welL The inferior ones should bo placed at the bottom of tne dish, and the others put in rows pyramid- ically, with the stalks down- wards, so that when the whole is completed, nothing but the red part of the fruit is visible. The fruit should be gathered with rather long stalks, as there is then something to support it, and it can be placed more upright in eachla3'cr. A few of the finest should be reserved to crown the top. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Ingredients.—To every pint of ne\l milk allow 2 dessertspoonfuls of brandj-, 1 dessertspoonful of sugar, and \h des- sertspoonful of prepared rennet; thick cream, pounded cinnamon, or grated nutmeg. Mode.—Make the milk blood- warm ; put it into a deep dish with the brandy, sugar, and rennet; stir it alto- gether, and cover it over until it is set. Then spread some thick or clotted cream ■ over tho top, grate some nutmeg, and i strew some sugar over, and the dish will be ready to serve. Time.—About 2 hours • to set tbo milk. Seasonable at any time..