279 THE DICTIOJTAEY OF COOKEEY. Rabbit, Curried boiled for a few minutes, and minced very finely, or rubbed through a sieve before it is added to the sauce. Time.— A very young rabbit, \ hour; a large one, I hour; an old one, 1 hour or longer. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Gd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. RABBIT, Curried. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom powder, the juice of h lemon, \ lb. of rice. Mode. —Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with the butter and sliced onions, and let them acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow them to blacken. Pour in the stock, which should be boiling ; mix the curry powder and flour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom powder, and simmer gently for rather more than ^ hour ; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, water may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. Time. —Altogether f hour. A verage cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in winter. RABBIT, Fried. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, flour, dripping, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—CyA the rabbit into Heat joints, and flour them well ; make the dripping boil in a fryingpan, put in the rabbit, and fry it a nice brown. Have ready a very hot dish, put in the butter, shalot, and ketchup; arrange the rabbit pyramidically on this, and serve as quickly as possible. Time.—10 minutes. A verage cost, from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufflcient for 4 or 5 persons. Sea- tonable from September to February. Note.—The rabbit may be brushed over ■with egg, and sprinkled with bread- crumbs, and fried as above. When cooked in this manner, make a gravy in the pan, and pour it round, but not over the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit or Hare, Ragoiit of RABBIT, ^ la Minuee. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, ^ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, 3 dried mushrooms, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 pint of water. Mode.—Empty, skin, and wash the rabbit thoroughly, and cut it into joints. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pieces of rabbit; add salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and let it cook until three parts done; then put in the remaining ingredients, and boil for about 10 minutes; it will then M ready to serve, b'owls or hare may be dressed in the same manner. Time.—Altogether, 35 minutes. Ave- rage cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. each. Suffi- cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. RABBIT PIE. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, a few slices of ham, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a few forcemeat balls, 3 hard-boiled eggs, h pint of gravy, puff crast. Mode.—Cut the rabbit (which should be young), remove the breast- bone, and bone the legs. Put the rabbit, slices of ham, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns, in layers, and season each layer with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and grated lutmeg. Pour in about | pint of water, cover with crust, and bake in a well-heated oven for about 1^ hour. Should the crust acquire too much colour, place a piece of paper over it to prevent it from burning. When done, pour in at the top, by means of the hole in the middle of the crust, a little good gravy, which may be made of the breast- and leg-bones of the rabbit, and 2 or 3 shank-bones, flavoured with onion, herbs, and spices. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, Irom Is. to Is. 6rf." each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to February. Note.—lhQ liver of the rabbit may be boiled, minced, and mixed with the forcemeat balls, when the flavour is liked. RABBIT OR HARE, Ragoflt of. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 3 teaspoonfula of flour, 3 sliced onions, 2 oz. of butter, a few thin slices of bacon, popper and salt to taste, 2 slices of lemon, 1 bay-leaf,