THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 217 Noyeau Cream Entremets and Removes. Apric Tart Boudin a la Nesselrode. lids of mour. • o 00 Q Dantzio Jelly. %t « s p • Vase of Flowers. VD O 03 g5 o1 • (0 o Charlotte Eusse, o •oij ids of nour. Plum-pudding. o <! O Dessert. o 9. 5' era ^3 Btrawberry-Ice Cream. Pineapples. Grapes. Pears. Vase of Flowers. Apples. Grapes. Pears. Lemon-Water Ice. PS to "St, n 03 Tl . O o NOYEAU CREAM. Ingredients.—Ih oz, of isinglass, the juice of 2 lemons, noyeau and pounded suj^r to taste, pint of cream. Mode. —Dissolve the is'inglas.'! in a little boiling water, add the Icmon-iuico, and strain this to tho cream, putting in sufficient noyeau and sugar to flavour and sweeten the mixture nicely; whisk tho cream •well, put it into an oiled mould, and set the mould in ice or in a cool place ; turn it out, and garnish tho dish to taste, jTme. —- / Itogether, ^ hour. Averafje cost, with cream at Is. per jiint and the best isinglass, 4s. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. ScasonabU at any time. October—Bills of Pare NOYEAU, Home-made. Ingredients.—2 oz. of bitter almonds, 1 oz. of sweet ditto, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the riiids of 3 lemons, 1 quart of Irish whiskey or gin, 1 tablespoonful of cla- rified honey, ^ pint of new milk. Mode —Blanch and pound the almonds, and mix with them the sugar, which should also be pounded. Boil the milk; let it stand till quite cold; then mix all the ingredients together, and let them re- main for 10 days, shaking them every day. Filter the mixture through blot- ting-paper, bottle off for use in small bottles, and seal the corks down. This will be found useful for flavouring many sweet dishes. A tablespoonful of tho above noyeau, added to a pint of boiled custard instead of brandy as given in our recipe for custai'd, makes an exceed- ingly agreeable and delicate flavour. Average cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient to make about 2^ pints of noyeau. Seasonable,— May be made at any time. OCTOBEE-BILIiS OF FARE. Dimier for 18 persons. Fi7-st Course, m 5* a a Mock-Turtle Soup, removed by Crimred Cod and Oyster Sauce, Vase of Flowers, Julienne Sovjp, reicoved by J(; t;ti I'oiy and Dutch B&U03. Entrees, Sweetbreads and Tomato Sauce. Vase of Flowersi Fricandcau do Veau and Celery Sauce, i o u A m 0