Ill THE. DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Eels, Fried t over with the ingredients, taking care hat the spices are very finely pounded, md the herbs chopped very small. Roll t up and bind vnth a broad piece of tape, md boil it in water, mixed with a little salt and vinegar, till tender. It may either 36 served whole or cut in slices ; and vheu cold, the eel should be kept in the iquor it was boiled in, but with a little nore vinegar put to it. Time.—2 hours. Ave)-age cost, Gd. per lb. Seasonable Tom August to March. EELS, Pried. Iiigredierds.—1 lb. of eels, 1 egg, a few iread crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Wash he 'iels, cut them into pieces 3 inches ong, trim and wipe them very dry ; Iredge with flour, rub them over with 3gg, and cover with bread crumbs ; fry \ nice brown in hot lard. If the eels are !mall, curl them round, instead of cutting :hem up. Gai-nish with fried parsley. Time.—20 minutes or rather less. ' Ave- '•age cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable from June to March. EELS, en Matelote. Ingredients.—5 or 6 young onions, a Few mushrooms, when obtainable ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; 1 laurel leaf, ^ pint of port wine, ^ pint of medium stock, butter and flour to thicken; 2 lbs. of eels. Mode.—Rub the stewpan with butter, dredge in a little flour, add the mions cut very small, slightly bi'own them, and put in all the other ingre- rlients. Wash, and cut up the eels into pieces 3 inches long; put them in the Ktewpan, and simmer for ^ hour. Make round the dish a border of crofitons, or pieces of toasted bread ; arrange the eels in a pyramid in the centre, and pour over the sauce. Serve very hot. Time.— ^ hour. Average cost. Is. 9d. for this quantity. Seasonable from August to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EELS, Stewed. Ingredients. —2 lbs. of eels, 1 pint of rich strong stock, 1 onion, 3 cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, 1 glass of port or Madeira, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream; thickening of flour; cayenne and lemon- juice to taste. Mode.—Wash and skin the eels, and cut them into pieces about 3 inches long ; pepper and salt them, and lay them la a stewpan; pour over the Eggs stock, add the onion stuck with cloves, the lemon-peel, and the wine. Stew gently for h hour, or rather more, and lift them carefully on a dish, which keep hot. Strain the gravy, stir the cream, sufiBcient flour to thicken; mix alto- gether, boil for 2 minutes, and add the cayenne and lemon-juice ; pour over the eels and sei-ve. Tim,e.—fhour. Average cost for this quantity, 2s. 3d. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. EELS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 2 lbs. of middling-si zed eels, 1 pint of medium stock, ^ pint of port wine ; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste; 1 teaspoonful of essence of an- chovy, the juice of ^ a lemon. Mode.— Skin, wash, and clean the eels tho- roughly; cut them into pieces 3 inches long, and put them into strong salt and water for 1 hour ; dry them well with a cloth, and fry them brown. Put the stock on with the heads and tails of the eels, and simmer for h hour; strain it, and add all the other ingredients. Put in the eels, and stew gently for ^ hour, when serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost. Is. 9rf. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EELS, h, la Tartare. Ingredients.—2 lbs, of eels, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a little flour, 1 glass of sherry; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste ; bread- crumbs, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar. Mode. — Rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan; cut up the carrot and onion, and stir them over the fire for 5 minutes ; dredge in a little flour, add the wine and seasoning, and boil for an hour. Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces, put them to the other in- gredients, and simmer tiU tender. When they are done, take them out, let them get cold, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Put them on a dish, pour sauce piquante over, and sei-ve them hot. Time.—\h hour. Average cost. Is. 8d., exclusive of the sauce piquante. Seasonable from August to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. EGGS. There is only one opinion as to the nutritive properties of eggs, although the