117 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Endive I, when made at home, 3s. 6d. per Ion. Seasonalle.—'iilake this in Sep- iber. :'his vegetable, so beautiful in appear- ;e, makes an excellent addition to Iter salad, when lettuces and other iter salads are not obtainable. It is laUy placed in the centre of the dish, I looka remarkably pretty with slices jeetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and curled ary placed round it, so that the colours trast nicely. In preparing it, care- y wash and cleanse it free from insects, ich are generally found near the heart; love any decaj^ed or dead leaves, and ' it thoroughly by shaking in a cloth, is vegetable may also be served hot, wed iii cream, brown gravy, or butter; i when dressed thus, the sauce it is wed in should not bo very highly soned, as that would destroy and irjiower the flavour of the vegetable. erajje cost, Id. per head. Sufficient.— ead for a salad for 4 persons. Season- e from November to March. S'DIVE, a, la FranQaise. Hgredients.—Q heads of endive, 1 pint broth, 3 oz. of fresh butter; salt, 3per, and gi'ated nutmeg to taste. )de.—Wash and boil the endive as in ! preceding recipe ; chop it rather e, and put into a stewpan with the ;th; boil over a brisk fire until the ice is all reduced; then put in the vter, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg e latter must be very sparingly used); X all well together, bring it to the iling point, and serve very hot. Time. 10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer the broth. Averarje cost, Id. per head. [Jicient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable an November to March. JJDIVE, Stewed. Ingredients.—6 heads of endive, salt d water, 1 pint of brolh, thickening of tter and (lour, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon- co, a small lump of sugar. Mode.— ash and free the endive thoroughly )m insects, remove the green part of e leaves, and put it into boiling water, ghtly salted. Let it remain for 10 antes; then take it out, drain it till ere is no water remaining, and chop it ry fine. Put it into a stewpan with e broth ; add % little salt and a lump February-Bills of Pare of sugar, and boil until the endive _ i» perfectly tender. When done, which may be ascertained by squeezing a piece between the thumb and finger, add a thickening of butter and flour and the lemon-juice; let the sauce boil up, and serve. Time.—10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer in the broth. A verage cost, Id. per head. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March. ESPAGNOLE, or Brown Spanish Sauce. Ingredients.—2 slices of lean han>, 1 lb. of veal, 1.^ pint of white stock, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, 5 a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 sprigs of savoury herbs, 6 green onions, 3 shalots, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, thickening of butter and flom*. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan. Moisten these with ^ pint of the stock, and simmer till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a nicely-coloured glaze, when put in a few more spoonfuls to detach it. Add the remainder of the stock, with the spices, herbs, shalots, and onions, and simmer very gently for 1 hour. Strain and skim olf every particle of fat, and, when required for use, thicken with butter and flour, or with a little roux. Add the wine, and, if necessary, a seasoning of cayenne; when it will be ready to serve. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, 2s. per pint. Note.—The wine in this sauce may be omitted, and an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown substituted for it. This sauce or gravy is used for many dish c«, and with most people is a genera? favourite. FEBBUARY-BILLS OF FAKBv Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. Hare Sonp, removed by ^ Turbot and Oyster Sauce. Si 5] Vase of % ^ Flowers. ^ 13 a Oyster Soup, .2 removed by pjj Crimped Cod a la Maitro d'Hotel.