263 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Potato Pasty- over them. They should be well drained an a piece of blotting-paper before the fire previously to being dished. Time.—¥rom 6 to 8 minutes. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO PASTY. Ingredients.—1.^ lb. of rump-steak or nutton cutlets, pepper and salt to taste, \ pint of weak broth or gravy, 1 oz. of butter, mashed potatoes. Mode.—Place bhe meat, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of the pan ; season it with pep- )er and salt, and add the gravy and POTATO-PASTY PAIT. alter broken into small pieces. Put on he perforated plate, with its valve-pipo crewed on, and fill up the whole space 0 the top of the tube with nicely-mashed otatoes mixed with a little milk, and nish the surface of them in any orna- lental manner. If carefully baked, the otatoes will be covered with a delicate rown cnist, retaining all the savoury :eam rising from the meat. Send it to xble as it comes from the oven, with a apkin folded round it. Time.—40 to 60 linutes. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient >r ,4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any rae. OTATO PUDDING-. Ingredients.—i lb. of mashed potatoes, oz. of butter, 2 eggs, ^ pint of milk, tablespoonfuls of sherry, i saltspoon- 1 of salt, the juice and rind of 1 small mon, 2 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Boil fficient potatoes to make ^ lb. when ashed ; add to these the butter, eggs, ilk, sherry, lemon-juice, and sugar; ince the lemon-peel very finely, and at all the ingredients well together, it the pudding into a buttered pie- ;h, and bake for rather more than lOur. To enrich it, add a few pounded nonds, and increase the quantity of M and butter. 2'ime.—^ liour, or ier longer. Average cost, 8d. Suf- Potato Sno-w- ficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO RISSOLES. Ingredients.—Mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste ; when Uked, a very little minced parsley, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—BoU and mash the POTATO EISSOLES. potatoes; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and, when liked, a little minced parsley. Roll the potatoes into small balls, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard for about 10 minutes ; let them drain before the fire, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time. —10 minutes to fry the rissoles. Season- able at any time. Note.—The flavour of these rissoles may be very much increased by adding finely-minced tongue or ham, or even chopped onions, when these are liked. POTATO SALAD. Ingredients.—10 or 12 cold boiled po- tatoes, 4 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or plain vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad- oil, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoon- ful of minced parsley. Mode.—Cut tho potatoes into slices about h inch in thick- ness ; put these into a salad-bowl -with oil and vinegar in the above proportion j season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoon- ful of minced parsley ; stir the salad well, that all the ingredients may be tho- roughly incorporated, and it is ready to serve. This should be made two or three hours before it is wanted for tku. . Anchovies, olives, or pickles may be added to this salad, as also slices of cold beef, fowl, or turkey. Seasonable at any time. POTATO SNOW. Ingredients.—Potatoes, salt, and water, il/ocie. —Choose large white potatoes, aa free from spots as possible ; boil them iu their skins in salt and water until per- fectly tender; drain and dry them tko' roughly by the side of the fire, and peel them. Put a hot dish before the fire, rub the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish; do not touch them after*