79 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chocolate SoufllS curdle. Strain the cream tbrough a sieve into a basin ; stir in the isinglass and the other h pint of cream, which should be well wfiipped; mix all well together, and pour it into a mould which has been pre- viously oiled with the purest salad-oil, and, if at hand, set it in ice until wanted for table. Time.—About 10 minutes to stir the mixture over the fire. Average cost, 4s. 6d., with cream at Is. per pint. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—4 eggs, 3 teaspoonfula of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoouful of flour, 3 oz. of the best chocolate. Mode. — Break the eggs, separating the whites from the yolks, and put them into dif- ferent basins; add to the yolks the sugar, flour, and chocolate, which should be very finely grated, and stir these in- gredients for 5 minutes. Then well whisk the whites of the eggs in the other basin until they are stiff, and, when firm, mix lightly with the yolks till the whole forms a smooth and light substance; butter a round cake-tin, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Pin a white napkin round the tin, strew sifted sugar over the top of the soufl36, and send it immediately to table. The proper appearance of this dish de- pends entirely on the expedition with which it is served; and some cooks, to preserve its lightness, hold a salamander over the soufla^ until it is placed on the table. If allowed to stand after it comes from the oven it will be entirely spoiled, as it falls almost immediately. Time.— 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is, Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized souffle, ^eci- sonable at any time. CLAEET-CUP. Tngredienis.—l bottle of claret, 1 bottl/ soda-water, about ^ lb, of pounded ice, ^^^^^^^^^ 4 tablespoonfulsof ^^^^^^^^ Maraschino, a ^^^^^^k^ sprig of green bo- •IA.BBT-OPP, portion of ice^by Cocoa, to make the state of the weather; if very warm, a larger quantity would be necessary. Hand the cup round with a clean nap- kin passed through one of the han- dles, that the edge of the cup may be wiped after each guest has partaken of the contents thereof. Seasonable in summer. COCK-A-LEEKIE. Ingredients.—A capon or large fowl (sometimes an old cock, from which the recipe takes its name, is used), which should be trussed as for boiling, 2 or 3 bunches of fine leeks, 5 quarts of stock {see Stock), pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Well wash the leeks (and, if old, scald them in boiling water for a few minutes), taking off the roots and part of the heads, and cut them into lengths of about an inch. Put the fowl into the stock, with, at first, one half of the leeks, and allow it to simmer gently. In half an hour add the remaining leeks, and then it may simmer for 3 or 4 hours longei". It should be carefully skimmed, and can be seasoned to taste. In serving, take out the fowl and carve it neatly, placing the pieces in a tureen, and pour- ing over them the soup, which should be very thick of leeks (a.2}uree of leeks, the French would call it). Time.—i hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. per quart; or with stock. Is. Sufficient for 10 persons. Sea- sonable in winter. Note.—Without the fowl, the above, which would then be merely called leek soup, is very good, and also economical. Cock-a-leekie was largely cons\mied at the Burns Centenary Festival at the Ciystal Palace, Sydeniiam,. in 1859. COCOA, to Make. Ingredients.—Allow 2 teaspoonfiils of the prepared cocoa to 1 breakfast-cup ; boiling milk and boiling water. Mode.— Put the cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour over it sufficient cold milk to make it into a smooth paste ; then add equal quantities of boiling milk and boiling water, and stir all well together. Caro must be taken not to allow the milk t» get burnt, as it will entirely spoil the flavour of the preparation. The above directions are usually given for making the prepared cocoa. The rock cocoa, or that bought in a solid piece, should be scraped, and made in the same manner, taking care to rub down all the lumps