THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 341 Tipsy Cake, an easy way of making TIPSY" CAKE, an easy way of making. Ingredients.—12 stale small spongo- cakes, raisin wino, ^ lb. of jam, 1 pint of custard (see Custard). Mode.—Soak the sponge-cakes, which should be stale (on this account thoy should be cheaper), in a littJe raisin wine; arrange them on a deep glass dish in four layers, putting a layer of jam between each, and pour round them a pint of custard, made by recipe, decorating the top with cut pre- served-fruit. Time.—2 hours to soak the cakes. Average cost, 2s'. 6d. Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time. TOAD-IW-THE-HOLE (Cold Meat Cookery). Ingredients.—Q oz. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, butter, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kid- neys. Mode.—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk, and eggs in the above pro- portion ; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should be cut into rather small pieces; bake about 1 hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oystth-s or mushrooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found ex- ceedingly good. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. A verage cost, exclusive of the cold meat, ?>d. Seasonable at any lime. TOAD-ITT-THE-HOLE (a Homely but Savoury Dish). Ingredients.—1^ lb. of rump-steak, 1 sheep's kidney, pepper and salt to taste. For the batter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, h salt- spoonful of salt. Mode.—Cut up the steak and kidney into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a pie-dish, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper ; mix the flour with a small quantity of milk at first, to prevent its being lumpy ; add the remainder, and the 3 eggs, which should bo well beaten ; put in the salt, stir the batter for about 5 minutes, and pour it over the steak. Place it in a tolerably brisk oven immediately, and bake for l.J hour. Time.—1.^ hour. Ave- rage cost, 1*. 9rf. Sufficient for 4 or 5 por- Bons. Seaeonable at any time. iiote.—Tho rcniaiasof cgld beef, rather Toast, to make Hot Buttered underdone, may be substituted for the steak, and, when liked, the smallest pos- sible quantity of minced onion or shalot may be added. TOAST, to make Dry. To make dry toast properly, a great deal of attention is required ; much more, indeed, than people generally suppose. Never use new bread for making any kind of toast, as it eats heavy, and, besides, is very extravagant. Procure a loaf of household bread about two days old ; cut off as many slices as_ may be required, not quite j inch in thickness ; trim olf the crusts and ragged edges, put the bread on a toasting-fork, and hold it before a very clear tire. Move it back- wards and forwards until the bread is nicely colourea; then turn it and toast the other side, and do not place it so near the fire that it blackens. Dry toast should be more gradually made than buttered toast, as its great beauty consists in its crispness, and this cannot be attained unless the process is slow and the bread is allowed gradually to colour. It should never be made long before it is wanted, as it soon becomes tough, unless placed on the fender in fi-ont of the fire. As soon as each piece is ready, it should be put into a rack, or stood upon its edges, and sent quickly to table. TOAST, to makr Hot Buttered. A loaf of household bread about two days old answers for making toast better than cottage bread, the latter not being a good shape, and too cnisty for the pur- pose. Cut as many nice even slices as may be required, rather more than ^ inch in thickness, and toast them before a very bright fire, without allowing the bread to blacken, which spoils the ap- pearance and flavour of all toast. When of a nice colour on both sides, put it on a hot plate ; divide some good butter into small pieces, place them on the toast, set this before the fire, and when the butter is just beginning to melt, spread it lightly over the toast. Trim off the crust and ragged edges, divide each round into 4 pieces, and send the toast quickly to table. Some persons cut the slices of toast across from corner to corner, so making the pieces of a throe-cornered shape. Soyer i-ecommcnds that each slice should be cut into pieces as soon as it is buttered, ancl when all are ready.