TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 40 Beef, Sliced and Broiled jack firmly, drodgo it slightly with flour, and place it near the fire at first. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continu- ally basting until the meat is done. Dish the meat, sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish'with tufts of horseradish, and send horseradish sauce and York- shire pudding to table with it. Time.—A sirloin of 10 lbs., 2^ hours; li to 16 lbs., about 4 or 4h hours. Average cost, 8hd, per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. lor 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable at any time. The rump, round, and other pieces of beef are roasted in the same manner, allowing for solid joints ^ hour to every lb. Note.—The above is the usual method of roasting meat; but to have it in per- fection and the juices kept in, the meat should at first be laid close to the fire, and when the outside is set and firm, drawn away to a good distance, and then left to roast very slowly. Where economy is studied, this plan would not answer, as the meat requires to be at the fire double the time of the ordinary way of cooking ; consequently, double the quan- tity of fuel would be consumed. BEEF, Sliced and Broiled (a pretty- Dish). [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients- —A few slices of cold roast beef, 4 or 5 potatoes, a thin batter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Pare the potatoes as you would peel an apple; fry the parings in a thin batter seasoned with salt and pepper, until they are of a light brown colour, and place them on a dish over some slices of beef, which should be nicely seasoned and broiled. Time.— 6 minutes to broil the meat. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Spiced (to serve Cold). Ingredients.—14 lbs. of the thick flank or rump of beef, h lb. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of saltpetre, ^ lb. of pounded allspice, 1 lb. of common salt. Mode.—Rub tho sugar well into the nccf, and let it lie foi 12 hours ; then rub tho saltpetre and allspice, both of which sliould be pounded, over the meat, and let it remain for another 12 hours ; then rub in the s:\lt. Turn daily in tho liquor for a fortni^irht, eoak it for a few hours in water, dry with a cloth, cover with a coarso paste, Beef, Stewed Hump of put a little water at the bottom of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. If it is not covered with a paste, be careful to put tho beef into a deep vessel, and cover with a plate, or it will be too crisp. During the time the meat is in tho oven it should be turned once or twice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, Id. per lb. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Stewed. (A Polish Dish.) Ingredients.— A thick beef or rump- steak of about 2 lbs., an onion, some bread crumbs, pepper and salt, ^ lb. of butter. Mode.—Mince the onion fine, mix it with the bread, pepper, and salt; make deep incisions in the beef, but do not cut it through; fill the spaces with the bread, &c. Roll up the steak and put it in a stewpan with the butter; let it stew very gently for more than two hours: serve it with its own gravy, thickened with a little liour, and flavoured, as may be required, either with tomato sauce, ketchup, or Harvey's sauce. Time.— About 2 hours, or rather more. Averagt cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Stewed Hump of. Ingredients.—^, rump of beef, sufficient stock to cover it, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 onions, 12 cloves, pepper and salt to taste, thicken- ing of butter and flour, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut out the bone, sprin- kle the meat vnth. a little ca}'enne (this must be sparingly used), and bind an^ tie it firmly up with tape ; put it intoMI stewpan with sufiicient stock to cover it* add vinegar, ketchup, herl).=, ouionMs cloves, and seasonings in the above pro- - portions, and simmer very gently for 4 ' or 5 hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender, which may bo ascertained by piei'cing it with a thin skewer. When cone, remove the tape, lay it into a deep dish, which keep hot; strain and skim the gravy, thicken it with l utter aii'l flour, add a glass of port wino ami any flavouring to make tho gravy vicli and palatable ; let it boil up, pour the moat, and servo. This dish may' very much enriched by gamisliiu;,' wilh forcemeat balls, or filling up tho siwco whence tho bone is t ikcu with a gooa forcemeat; sliced carrots, turuii^s, and