80 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEllY, Cod before the boiling liquid is added. Suffi- cient,—2 teaspounfuls of prepared cocoa for 1 brcakf;ist-cup, or ^ oz. of the rock cocoa for the Eame quantity. COD. Cod should be chosen for the table when it is plump and round near the tail, when the hollow behind the head is deep, and when the sides are undulated as if they were ribbed. The glutinous parts about the head lose their delicate flavour after the fish has been twenty-four hours out of the water. The great point by which the cod should be judged is the firmness of its flesh ; and, although the cod is not firm when it is alive, its quality may be arrived at by pressing the finger into the flesh : if this rises immediately, the flesh is good ; if not, it is stale. Another sign of its goodness is, if the fish, when it is cut, exhibits a bronze ap- pearance, like the silver side of a round of beef ; when this is the case the flesh will be firm when cooked. Stiffness in a cod, or in any other fish, is a sure sign of freshness, though not always of quality. Sometimes codfish, though exhibiting signs of rough usage, will eat much bet- tir than those with red gills, so strongly recommended by many cookery-books. This appearance is generally caused by the fish having been knocked about at sea, in the well-boats, in which they are conveyed from the fishing-grounds to market. COD h, la BECHAMEL. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Inr/redienls.— Any remains of cold cod, 4 tablcspoonfuls of bdchamel (see Bechamel Sauce), 2 oz. of butter; seasoning to taste of pepper ajidsalt; fried bread, a few bread crumbs. J/o(fe.—Flake the cod carefully, leaving out all skin and bone ; put the b6chamel in a stowpan with the butter, and stir it ,over the fire till the latter is melted ; add seasoning, put in the fish, and mix it well with the sauce. Make a border of fried bread round tho dish, lay in the fish, sprinkle over with bread crumbs, .ind baste with butter. Brown either before tho fire or with a salamander, and garnish with toasted bread cut in fanci- ful shapes. Timc—hhonr. Average cost, exclusive of the fish, Qd. OOD t- la CBEME. [Cold Meat Cookeuy.] Ingredients. Cod a la Maitro d'Hotel —1 large slice of cod, 1 oz. of butter, 1 chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, I teacupful of v/hite stock, \ pint of milk or cream, flour to tliicken, cayenne and lemon-juico to taste, .j teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Boil tho cod, and while hot, break it into flakes ; put tho butter, shalot, parsley, and stock into a stcwpan, and let them boil for 5 mi- nutes. Stir in sufficient flour to thicken, and pour to it the milk or cream. Sim- mer for 10 minutes, add the cayenne and sugar, and, when liked, a little lemon- juice. Put the fish in tho sauce to warm gradually, but do not let it boil. Sei-vo in a dish garnished with croCltons. Time. —Rather more than h hour. Average cost, with cream, 2s. Sttfficienl for 3 per- sons. Seasonable from November to March. JVote.—The remains of fish from the preceding day answer very well for this dish. COD a I'lTALIENNE. Ingredients.—2 slices of crimped cod, 1 shalot, 1 slice of ham minced very fine, I pint of white stock, when liked, ^ tea- cupful of cream ; salt to taste ; a few drops of garlic vinegar, a little lemon- juico, ^ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode.—Chop the shalots, mince the ham very fine, pour on the stock, and simmer for 15 minutes. If the colour should not be good, add cream in the above pro- portion, and strain it through a fine sieve ; season it, and put in the vinegar, lemon-juice, and sugar. Now boil tho cod, take out tho middle bone, and skin it; put it on tho dish without breaking, and pour the sauce over it. Time.— % hour. Average cost, 3s. 6d., with fresh fish. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to Mai ch. COD h la MAITBE D'HOTEL. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredic.tf. —2 slices of cod, \ lb. of butter, a little chopped shalot and parsley; pepper to taste; ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, or rather less when tho flavour is not liked; tho juice of J lemon. Mode.— Boil tho cod, and cither leave it whole, or, what is still better, flake it from tho bone, and take oflT the skin. Put it into a stcwpan with the butter, parsley, sha- lot, pepper, and nutmeg. Melt the but- ter gradually, and be very careful tliat it does not booome like oil. When all ii