310 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 3avoy Cako SAVOY CAKE. Ingredients.—Tho weight of 4 eggs in pouuded loaf sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rlnd, or es- sence of almonds, or orange-flower water. Mode.—Break the 7 eggs, put- ting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste ; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, continuing to beat the mixture for ^ hour, butter a mould, pour in the cake, and bake it from 1^ to 1^ hour. This is a very nice cake for desert, and may be iced for a supper table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. Time.—l;|tol2hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. SEA-BREAM, Baked. Ingredients.—1 bream. Seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and cayenne ; ^ lb. of butter. Mode.—Well wash the bream, but do not remove the scales, and wipe away all moisture with a nice dry cloth. Season it inside and out with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and lay it in a baking-dish. Place the butter, in small pieces, upon the fish, and bake for rather more than ^ an hour. To stufif this fish before baking, will be found a great improvement. Time.— Eather more than ^ an hour. Seasonable in summer. Note.—This fish may be broiled over a nice clear fire, and served with a good brown gravy or white sauce, or it may be stewed in wine. SEA-KALE, Boiled. Ingredients.—To each I gallon of water allow one heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Well wash the kale, cut away any worm-eaten pieces, and tie it into small bunches; put it into boiling ■water, salted in the above proportion, and lot it boil uickly until ten- or. Take it out, drain, untie the bunches, and Borvo with plain molted butter or white sauce, a Uttlo of which may be Beed-Cake, a Very Good poured over tho ka'e. Sea-kale may also bo parboiled and stewed in good brown gravy : it will then take about ^ Lour ■ altogether. Time. —15 minutes; when liked very thorouglily done, allow an extra 5 minuies. Average cost, in full season, 9(^. per basket. SuJJicienl.—Allow 12 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iable from February to Juno. SE3D BISCTJITS. Ingredieyits.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of sifted sugar, ^ lb. of butter, J oz. of caraway seeds, 3 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in the flour, sugar, and caraway seeds; and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the eggs, which should be well whisked. Roll out the paste, with a round cutter shape out the biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. The tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with a little milk or the white of an egg, and then a little sugar strewn over. Time.—10 or 15 minutes. Average cost. Is. Svfficient to make 3 dozen biscuits. Seasonable at any time. SEED-CAKE, Common. Ingredients. — ^ quartern of dough, 1 lb. of good dripping, C oz. of moist sugar, ^ oz. of caraway seeds, 1 egg. Mode.—If the dough is sent in from the bakers, put it in a basin covered with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. Then with a wooden spoon beat the dripping to a liquid; add it, with the other ingredients, to the dough, and beat it until everything is very tho- roughly mixed. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake the cake for rather more than 2 hours. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, 8<i. Seasonable at any time. SEED-CAKE, a Very Good. Ingredients.—I lb. of butter, 6 eggs, 'I lb. of sifted sugar, pounded mace and grated nutmeg to taste, 1 lb. of flour, 4 oz. of caraway seeds, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Jl/orfc—Beat tho butter to a cream ; dredge in tho flour; add the sugar, mace, nutmeg, and caraway seeds, and mix these ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the brandy, and beat tho cake a^ain for 10 minutes. Put it into a tin lined with buttered