153 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Ham, Potted eggs and a slice of ham to each porson. Seasonable at any time. iVo^e.—Ham may also bo toasted or broiled ; but, with the latter mothol, to insure its being well cooked, tlio fire must bo boautil'uUy clear, or it will have a smoky flavour far from agreeable. HAM, Potted, that v/ill keep Good for some time. Ingredients.— To 4 lbs. of lean ham allow 1 lb. of fat, 2 teaspoonfuls of pounded mace, h nutmeg grated, rather more than h teaspoonful of cayenne, clarified lard". Mode.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together in the above pro- portion, and pound it well in a mortar, Beasoniug it with cayenne pepper, pounded mace, and nutmeg ; put the mixture inlrj a deep baking-dish, and bako for h hour; then press it well into a stono jar, fill up the jar with clari- fied lard, cover it closely, and paste over it a pieco of thick paper. If well sea- soned, it will keep a long time in winter, and will be found very convenient for sandwiches, &c. Time.—^ hour. Sea- sonahle at any time. HAM, Potted (a nice addition to the Breakfast or Luncheon table). Ingredients.—To 2 lbs. of loan ham allow ^ lb. of fat, 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, h teaspoonful of pounded allspice, h nutmeg, pepper to taste, clari- fied butter. Mode.—Cut some slices from the remains of a cold ham, mince them small, and to every 2 lbs. of lean allow the above pi'opoilion of fat. Pound the ham in a mortar to a fine paste, with the fat, gradually add the seasonings and spices, and bo very particular that all the ingredients are well mi.xed and the spices well pounded. Press the mix- ture into pottiV j^-pots, pour over clarified butter, and 1 ecp it in a cool place. Average cost ior this quantity, 2s. iid. Seasonable at any time. HAM, to Bake. Ingredients.—Ilam ; a common crust. JlJoife.—As a ham for baking should be Willi soaked, let it remain in water for at least 12 hom-s. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty places underneath, and cover it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sulficicnt thiclvnoss all over to keep the gravy in. Place it in a Ham, to Boil moderately-heated oven, and b.iko for nearly 4 hours. Take off the crust an 1 skin, and cover with raspinns, the name as for boiled ham, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking a ham is, by many persons, con- sidered far superior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy and has a finer flavour, besides keeping a much longer time good. Time. — A medium-sized ham, 4 hours. Average cost, from 8(^. to Is. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable all the year. HAM, to Boil. Ingredients.—Ham, water, glaze, or raspings. Mode. — In choosing a ham, ascertain that it is perfectly sweet, by running a sharp knife into it, close to the bone ; and if, when the knife is with- drawn, it has an agreeable smoU, the ham is good ; if, on the contrary, the blade has a greasy appearance and offen- sive smell, the bam is bad. If it has been BOILED Hi.U long hung, and is very dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours, changing the water frequently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hours would bo suflSoient for a Yorkshire or Westmore- land ham. Wash it thoroughly clean,- and trim away from the under-side all the rusty and smoked parts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boil- ing-pot, with sufficient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be careful that it does not stop boiiing, nor boil too quickly. When done, take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few tine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and servo. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the water until nearly cold : by this method the juices are kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot; it should, however, bo borne in mind that the ham must not remain in the sauce- pan all night. Wkeu the skin is removed.