£xxviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. moving to do another portion, and sho must bo careful not to omit scrubljij equally all the floor, else it will have a patchy appearance afterwards, some tions being whiter than others. She should also empty her pail and refill it wii clean water very frequently. 229. But if the boards have not been washed for a long time, and are re dirty, soap and sand must be used and the water must be changed very frequent 230. The following is a very good recipe— TO WHITEU BOARDS THAT HAVE BBEN NEGLECTED.} 231. ^ lb. lime, h lb. washing soda, 1 quart boiling water. Mix all together, and leave until cold. Then drain off the water, and use the sediment iustea ' of soap. 232. In scrubbing a room, the servant should begin with the part most reniote ft cm the door, and scrub regularly to the door. It should be done as quickly ai possible, and when finished the windows and door should be set wide open, so ai to allow a good current of air to pass through the room and dry the boards. Id winter a fire ought to be lighted. A bedroom should never be scoured in wet, or even damp, weather. When the room is thoroughly dry, she will replace tU|H carpets, after well shaking or beating them, bring back the towels, spoag«5^"T clothes, ornaments, &c., which she had removed, and arrauge them all in tbair places ; rub and polish the furniture, remove the dusting-sheet from the bed, down the valauce, counterpane, and curtains, and put on a clean toilet-cover, put up clean muslin blinds. 233. We have thus given a description of the thorough cleaning of a bedroomJ that, when necessary, the general servant will know how to do everything tU is requisite to be done : but in many houses the bedrooms are carpeted all ov and are, therefore, only scoured ouce or twice a year, when the carpets are up. Also, in very few families where but one servant is kept, are the bed-lii blinds, and toilet-covers changed so often as once a week, 234. The bedrooms being all finished, the servant wiU dust down the bauist rubbing the handrail well. She will also dust the closet and the lobby windol the sills, and ledges, 235. But, on a day when a bedroom is being thoroughly cleaned out, these du<| need not be deferred until the bedroom is quite completed. While the dust| settling in the room after the sweeping, and before tlie dusting, is a good ■ to do the stairs, &o, 5:36, At twelve o'clock the maid must peel and put in the potatoes for her oi din)ier, and for the children's dinner or mistress's lunch.