122 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Fish Pie oysters, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Bepcat this till the dish is quite full. You may form a covering either of broad- crumbs, which should be browned, or puff-paste, which should be cut into long strips, and laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a line of the paste first laid ound tho edge. Before i)utting on iho top, pour in some made melted butter, or a little thin white sauce, and the oyster-liquor, and bake. Time.—If made of cooked fish, | hour ; if made of fresh fish and ijuff-paste, ^ hour. Average cost, \s. 6d. Seasonable from September to April. Hole.—A nice little dish may be made by flaking any cold fish, adding a few oysters, seasoning with pepper and salt, and covering with mashed potatoes; J hour will bake it. nSH PIE, with Tench and Eels. Ingredienls.—2 tench, 2 eels, 2 onions, a faggot of herbs, 4 blades of mace, 3 anchovies, 1 pint of water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the yokes of 6 hard-boiled eggs, pufif-paste. Mode.—Clean and bone the tench, skin and bone the eels, and cut them into pieces 2 inches long, and leave the sides of the tench whole. Put the bones into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, mace, anchovies, water, and sea- soning, and let them simmer gently for 1 houi". Strain it ofiF, put it to cool, and skim ofiF all the fat. Lay the tench and eels in a pie-dish, and between each layer Eut seasoning, chopped parsley, and ard-boilofl eggs ; poiu" in part of the strained liquor, cover in with puff-paste, and bake for ^ hour or rather more. The oven should be rather quick, and when done, heat the remainder of the liquor, which pour into the pie. Time.—^ hour to bake, or rather more if the oven is slow. FISH SAUCE. Ingredients.—1.] oz. of cayenne, 2 ta- blospoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 table- spoonfuls of soy, a few shreds of garlic and shalot, 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.— Put all tho ingredients into a largo bottle, and shake well every day for a fortnight. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, and in a few days it will be fit for use. A verage cost, for this quantity, ]«. FISH, Scalloped. [Cold Meat Cooiceby.] Ingredients.— Flounders, Boiled t i. m Remains of cold fii-h of any sort, h \ of cream, tablespoonful of anclj< sauce, h teaspoonful of made must;) ditto orwalnut ketchup, pepper aud t to taste (the above quantities are for ^ of fish when picked): Vjread-cninn Mode.—Put all the ingredients intc i ^ stewpan, carefully picking the fish fr the bones ; set it on the fire, let it Jit main till neai ly hot, occasionally stir contents, but do not allow it to b When done, put the fi^h into a deep ' or scallop shell, with a good quantity bread-crumbs; place small pieces butter on the top, set in a Dutch o before the fire to brown, or use a s mander. Time.—i hour. Average c exclusive of the cold fish, lOd. FISH, Scalloped. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredie —Any cold fish, 1 egg, milk, 1 la blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespooi of flour, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sai pepper and salt to taste, bread-crunrAr? buiter. Mode.—Pick the fish caref from the bones, and moisten with r and the egg ; add the other ingredie and place in a deep ditch or scallop sht over with bread-crumbs, butter the aud brown before the fire; when q hot, serve. Time.—2() minutes. Ave, cost, exclusive of the cold fish, id. FISH STOCK. Ingredients.— 2 lbs. of beef or • (these can be omitted), any kind of w fish trimmings of fish which are t-c dressed for table, 2 onions, the riu' ^ a lemon, a bunch of sweet herb, carrots, 2 quarts of water. Mode.— up the fish, and put it, with the o* ingredients, into tho water. Sim for 2 hours; skim the liquor carefr and strain it. When a richer stocl wanted, fry the vegetables and before adding the water. Time.—2 ho Average cost, with meat, lOd per qui without, Zd. Noli.—Do not make fish stock I before it is wanted, as it soon turns s»- FLOUNDEES, Boiled. Ingredients.—^Vii^\<i\<int water to a- tho llouudcrs, salt in the proportioi () oz. to each gallon, a little vine; Mode.—Put on a kettle with eno water to cover tho flounders, lay In