THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2? ieans, Haricots Blancs, &c. ravy and a seasoning of pepper and Have ready a pint of haricot beans boiled and drained ; put them with Dions and gravy, mix all well toge- and serve very hot. Time.—From ihom-s to boil the beans ; 6 minutes the onions. Average cost, id. per Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Sea- le in winter. .WS, Haricots Blancs h la Maltre Hotel. redienis.—1 quart of white haricot , ^ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoon- minced parsley, pepper and salt to the juice of ^ lemon. Mode. — d the beans be very dry, soak them hour or two in cold water, and boil until perfectly tender, as in the pre- recipe. If the water should boil away, replenish it with a little more cold, which makes the skin of the beans tender. Let them be very tho- rougliJy done; drain them well; then add to them the butter, minced par- sley, and a season- ing of pepper and salt. Keep moving the stewpan over the firo without using a spoon, as icoT BEANS. this would break tho beans; and, I tho various ingredients aro well with them, squeeze in the lemon- land serve very hot. Time.—From hours to boil the beans. Average , per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 I. Seasonable in winter. CAMEL, or French WMte redien(s.—l small bunch of parsley, |eS, A bay-leaf, 1 small bunch of 'herbs, salt to taste ; 3 or4mush- when obtainable; 2 pints of whito 1 pint of milk or cream, 1 table- ful of arrowroot. Mode.—Put the jinto a atcwpan, with the parsley, bay-leaf, herbs, and mushrooms ; seasoning of salt, but no pepper, as l-ould give tho sauce a dusty appear- I'lnd should bo avoided. When it has I long enough to extract tho flavour Beef, Aitchbone of, Boiled of the herbs, &c., strain it, and boil it up quickly again, until it is nearly half reduced. Now mix the arrowroot smoothly with the milk or cream, and let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes over a slow fire; pour to it the stock, and continue to simmer slowly for 10 minutes, if the sauce be thick. If, on the contrary, it be too thin, it must be stirred over a sharp fire till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it can easily be thinned with cream, milk, or white stock. This sauce is excellent for pouring over boiled fowls. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average cost, 3s. per quart, with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. BECHAMEL MAIGBE, or ■With- out Meat. Ingredients.—2 onions, 1 blade of mace, mushroom trimmings, a small bunch of parsley, 1 oz. of butter, flour, h pint of water, 1 pint of milk, salt, the juice of ^ lemon, 2 eggs. Mode.—Put in a stew- pan the milk and | pint of water, with the onions, mace, mushrooms, parsley, and salt. Let these simmer gently for 20 minutes. In the meantime, rub on a plate 1 oz. of flour and butter; put it to the liquor, and stir it well till it boils up : then place it by the side of the fire, and continue stirring imtil it is perfectly smooth. Now strain it through a sieve into a basin, after which put it back in the stewpan, and add the lemon-juice. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with about 4 dessertspoonfuls of milk; strain this to the sauce, keep stirring it over the firo, hut do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average cost, 5d. per pint. This is a good sauce to pour over boiled fowls when they are a bad colour, BEEF, Aitchbone of. Boiled. Ingredients. — Beef, water. Mode.— After this joint has been in salt 5 or 6 days, it will be ready for use, and will not take so long boiling as a round, for it is not so solid. Wash the meat, and, if too salt, soak it for a few hours, changing the water once or twice, till the required freshness is obtained. Put into a sauce- pan, or boiling-pot, sufficient water to cover tho meat; sot it over the fire, and when it boils, plunge in the joint, and lot it boil up quickly. Now draw the pot to the side of tho fire, and lot the