THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. 320 Soups, General Directions for and completely removed; and in pouring it off, care must bo taken not to disturb the Ecttlings at tlio bottom of tho vessel, which aro so fine that they will escape through a sieve. A very fine hair-sievo or cloth is the best strainer; and if the soup is strained while it is hot, let tho tamis or cloth bo previously soaked in cold water. Clear soups must be per- fectly transparent, and thickened soups about the consistency of cream. To obtain a really clear and transparent soup, it is requisite to continue skimming tho liquor until there is not a particle of scum remaining, this being commenced immediately after tho water is added to the meat. To thicken and give body to soups and gravies, potato-mucilage, arrowroot, bread-raspings, isinglass, flour and butter, barley, rice, or oatmeal aro used. A pieco of boiled beef pounded to a pulp, with a bit of butter and flour, and rubbed through a sieve, and gradually incorporated with the soup, will bo found an excellent addition. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather, they should be warmed up every day, put into fresh-scalded pans or tureens, and placed in a cool larder. In temperate weather, every other day may be suflicient. Stock made from meat only keeps good longer than that boiled with vegetables, the latter being liable to turn the mixture sour, par- ticularly in very warm weather. Vauious Herbs and Vegetables are required for the purpose of making soups and gravies. Of these the principal are,— Scotch barley, pearl barley, wheat flour, oatmeal, bread-raspings, pease, beans, rice, vermicelli, macaroni, isinglass, po- tato-mucilage, mushroom or mushroom- ketchup, champignons, parsnips, carrots, beetroot, turnips, garlic, shalots, and onions. Sliced onions, fried with butter and flour till they are browned, and then rubbed through a sieve, are excellent to heighten tho colour and flavour of brown soups and sauces, and form the basis of many of tho fine relishes furnished by tho cook. The older and drier tho onion, the stronger will be its flavour. Leeks, cucumber, or burnct vinegar; celery or celery seed pounded. The latter, though equally strong, does not impart tho deli- cate sweetness of tlio fresh vegetable; and when used as a substitute, its flavour should be corrected by tho addition of a bit of sugar. Crcss-sccd, parsley, common thyme, lemon thyme, orange Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. ( thyme, knotted marjoram, sa;- mint, winter savoury, and basil. . fresh green basil is seldom to bo p? cured, and its fine flavour is soon lo the best way of preserving tho extract by pouring wine on tho fresh leaves. For the Seasoning of Soups, b:i leaves, tomato, tarragon, chervil, burnr. allspice, cinnamon, ginger, nutmc, clove, maco, black and white pepper, c sence of anchovy, lemon peel and juic and Seville orange juice, are all tuket Tho latter imparts a finer flavour tha the lemon, and the acid is mu milder. These materials, with wii. mushroom ketchup, Harvey's sauc tomato sauce, combined in various pr portions, are, with other ingredient! manipulated into an almost endless vr riety of excellent soups and gravic Soups, which are intended to constitir the principal part of a meal, certair . ought not to be flavoured like sauc^ which are only designed to give a reli.-, to some particular dish. SOXTP-MAKING, the Chemistr and Economy of. Stock being the basis of all me- soups, and, also, of all the princii- sauces, it is essential to the success ^ these culinary operations, to know th.. most comp.ete and economical methotx of extractin/, from a certain quantit;] of meat, the best possible stock, or broth.: The theory and philosophy of this proccs-s wo will, therefore, explain, and then proceed to show the practical course be adopted. As all meat is principally composed o. fibres, fat, gelatine, osmazome, anc: albumen, it is requisite to know that th' < fibres are inseparable, constituting almos- all that remains of the meat after it ha^ undergone a long boiling. Fat is dissolved by boiling; but as i i is contained in cells covered by a verj? fine membrane, which never dissolves^ a portion of it always adheres to th( i fibres. Tho other portion rises to the J surface of the stock, and is that whicbi has escaped from tho cells which were* not whole, or which have burst by boiling. Gelatine is soluble; it is the basis< and tho nutritious portion of the stock... When there is an abundance of it, it; causes the stock, when cold, to become J a jelly. Osmazome is soluble even when coJJa