171 fUE BlCtlONART OP COOtCEl^Y. July-Bills of Fare Second Course. o o o o 0 Hauuoh of Yenison, Pigeon Pie. Vase of Flowera, Braised Ham. Saddle of Lamb. o o SI a ■E GD Third Coxirse. 13 o ►1 (D I Eoast Ducks, removed br TaniUa Souill6. O Raspberry Cream. n> ^ "Vase of ^ Flowers. p> 2- Strawberry Cream, Green Roose, removed by Iced Pudding, 09 03 EH Dessert and Ices. juier for 12 persons. First Course.—Soup h, la Jardiniere ; cken soup ; crimped salmon ari'l pars- • and-butter ; trout aux fines herbes. cases. Entries.—Tendrous de veau 1 peas; lamb cutlets and cucumbers. •xmd Course.—Loin of veal k la Be- imel ; roast fore-quarler of lamb ; ad ; braised ham, garnished with »adbeans; vegetables. Third Course.— ast du<;ks ; turkey poult; stewed peas Francaise ; lobster salad ; cherry ; raspb'jrry-anfl-currant t.irt ; cus- ■ds, in glasses ; lemon creams ; Nessel- "e pudding; meirrow pudding. Dessert ' ices. ler for 8 persons. Tirst Course.—Green-pea soup; salmon lobster sauce; crimped perch and eh sauce. Entrees.—btewed veal and lamb cutiets and cucumbers. ond Course. — Haunch of venison ; lied fowls it la li^chamel j braised July, Plain Family Dinners for ham ; vegetables. Third Coztrsc—Roast ducks ; peas k la Fr.incaise ; lobster salad ; str-uwberry cream ; bl.iucman>;e ; clierry tart; cijeesecakes; iced pudding. Dessert aud ices. Dinner for 6 persons. First Coitrse.—Soup k la Jardiniere; salmon trout and parsley-and-buttcr ; fillets of mackerel k la maltre d'hfitel. Entrees.—hobslQV c»U.lets ; beef palates, k la Icalienne. Second Course.—Roast larab ; boiled capon and white sauce; boiled tongue, garnished witli small vege- table marrows ; bacon and beans. Third Course.—Goslings ; whipped strawberi-y cream ; raspberry-and-currant tart; me- ringui?s ; chei ry tartlets j iced pudding. Deasert and ices. First Course.—Julienne soup ; crimped salmon and caper sauce ; whitebHit. En- trees.—Croquettes k la Reine ; curried lob- ster. Second Co2cr.'<e.- Roast laixjb; riunp of beef k la Jardinifero. Thiul Course.— Larded turkey poult; raspberry cream ; cherry tart ; custards, in glasses; Gk- teaux k la Geii6v6se; Nesselrode puddiiig. Dessert. JULY, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday.—1. Salmon trout and parsley- and-butter. 2. Roast fillet of veal, boiled bacon-cheek, peas, potatoes. 3. Rasp- berry-and-curraut tai't, baked custard pudding. Monday. — 1. Green-pea soup. 2. Roast fowls garnished with watercresses; gravy, bread sauce ; cold veal and salad. 3. Cherry tart. Tuesday.—1. John dory and lobster sauce. 2. Curried fowl with remains of cold fowls, dish of rice, veal rolls with remains of cold fillet. 3. Strawberry cream. Wednesday.—1. Roast leg of mutton, vegetable marrow and potatoes, melted butter. 2. Black-currant pudding. Thursday.—1. Fried soles, anchovy sauce, 2. Mutton cutlets and tomato sauce, hashed mutton, peas, potatoes. 3. Lemon dumplings. Friday.—1, Boiled brisket of beef, carrots, turnips, suet dumplings, peas, potatoes. 2. B.tked semolina pudding. Satuiday.—1. Cold beef and salad, lamb cutlets and peas. 2, Rolled jam pudding.