77 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chicken Patties carve them into joints ; blanch these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes, take them out, and immerse them in cold vi-ater to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stewpan ; add the parsley, onions, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stew- pan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with flour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much ; then moisten the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew very gently for ^ hour. Lift the fowl into another stew- pan, skim the sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire by letting it boil fast, and strain it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne ; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs; these should not bo put in till the last moment, and the sauce should be made hot, but must not hoil, or it will instantly curdle. A few button-mush- rooms stewed with the fowl are by many persons considered an improvement, Time.—l hour to make the gravy, h hour to simmer the fowl. Averane cost, 5s. the pair, Fiufficient.—\ large fowl for 1 entree. Seasonable at any time. CHICKEN (or Fowl) PATTIES. [Cold Meat Cookkut.] Inrjredients. — rhe remains of cold roast chicken or f.'wl; to every .j lb. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham, 3 tableppoonfuls of cream, 2 ta- blespoonfuls of veal gravy, }, tcaspoonful of minced lemon-peel; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour puff paste, il/ot^e.—Mince very small the white meat from a cold roast fowl after removing all the skin; weigh it' and to every \ lb. of meat allow the above proportion of minced ham. Put these iiuo a stewpan with the remaining inn-re- dients, stir over the fire for 10 minutes or i hour, taking care tliat the mixture does not bum. Roll out some pufl" paste about .•} inch in thickness, line the patty- pans with this, put upon each a small piece of bread, and cover with another layer of paste ; brush over with the yolk of an e<.'g, and hake in a brisk oven for about \ houi-. When done, cut a round Chicken, Potted piece out of the top, and, with a small spoon, take out the bread (be particular in not breaking the outside border of the crust), and fill the patties with the mixture. Time.—\ hour to prepare the meat; rot quite ^ hour to bake the crust. Seasonable at any time. CHICKEN (or Fowl) PIE. Ingredients.—2 small fowls or 1 largo one, white pepper and salt to taste, h tcaspoonful of grated nutmeg, h tea" spoonful of pounded mace, forcemeat, a few slices of ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, ^ pint of water, puff crust. Mode.— Skin and cut up the fowls into joints, and jjut the neck, leg, and backbones in a stewpan, with a little water, an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a blade of mace ; let these stew for about an hour, and, when done, strain olf the liquor: this is for gravy. Put a layer of fowl at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of ham, then one of forcemeat and hard-boiled eggs cut in rings; be- tween the layers put a seasoning of pounded mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, and pour in about h pint of water; border the edge of the'dish with puff crust, put on the cover, ornament the top, and glaze it by brushing over it the yolk of an egg. Bake from l.j to lA hour, should the pie be veiy large, and, when done, pour in at the top the gravy made from the bones. If to be eaten cold, and wished particularly nice, the joints of the fowls should be boned, and placed in the dish with alternate layers of forcemeat; sausage-meat may also be substituted for the forcemeat, and is now very much used. When the chickens are boned, and mixed with sausage-meat, the pie will take about 2 hom-s to bake. It should be covered with a piece of paper when about half- done, to prevent the paste being dried up or scorched. Time.—Yon a pin with unboned meat, l.j to 1;^ hour ; with boned meat and sausage or "forcemeat, l.'JtoS hours. Average cost, with 2 fowls, (5s. C</. Sufficient for G or 7 persons. Seasonaltt at any time. CHICKEN, Potted (a Luncheon or Breakfast Dish). Inc/redicnts.—Tho remains of cold roast chicken ; to every lb. of meat ailow lb. of fresh butter, salt and cayenne to tasto.