THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEET. 110 Eggs, to keep Frosh ing; bring the milk to the boiling-point, drop in the snow a tablespoon ful at a time, and keep turning the eggs until «ulKciently cooked. Then place them on a glass dish, beat up the yolks of the eggs, stir to them the milk, add a little more sugar, and strain this mixture into * j^S > place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Pour this custard over the eggs, when they should rise to the surface. They make an ex- ceedingly pretty addition to a supper, and should be put in a cold place after being made. When they are flavoured with vanilla or orange-flowered water, it is not necessary to steep the milk. A few drops of the essence of either may ^e poured into the milk Just before the whites are poached. In making the custard, a little more flavouring and sugar should always be added. Time.— About 2 minutes to poach the whites; 8 minutes to stir the custard. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. /Seasonable at any time. EGGS, to keep Fresh for several Weeks. Have ready a large saucepan, capable of holding 3 or 4 quarts, full of boiling water. Put the eggs intoa. cabbage-net, say 20 at a time, and hold them in the water (which must be kept boiling) for 20 seconds. Proceed in this manner till you have done as many eggs as you wish to preserve ; then pack them away in sawdust. We have tried this method of preserving eggs, and can vouch for its excellence. They will be found, at the end of 2 or 3 months, quite good enough for culinary purposes ; and although the white may bo a little tougher than that of a new-laid egg, the yolk will be nearly the same. Many persons keep eggs for a long time by smearing the shells with 6uttor or sweet oil: they should then be packed in plenty of bran or sawdust, and the eggs not allowed to touch each other. Eggs for storing should bo col- lected in fine weather, and should not be more than 24 hours old when they are packed away, or their flavour, when used, cannot be relied on. Another simple way of preserving eggs is to immerse them in lime-water soon after they have been laid, and then to put the vessel containing the lime-water ia a Elder Wine cellar or cool outhouse. Seasonable.— (. The best time for preserving eggs it [is. from April to Septemljer. jfc EGGS, k la Tripe. P Ingredients.—S eggs, f pint of Bfohamc sauce, dessertspoonful of finely-mincei parsley. Mode. — Boil the eggs hard put them into cold water, peol them take out the yolks whole, and bhred ih^ whites. Make ^ pint of Bdchamel snuce add the parsley, and, when the sauce i quite hot, put the yolks of the eggs int< the middle of the dish, and the shre( whites round them ; pour over the sauce and garnish with leaves of puff-paste o fried crofitons. There is no necessity for putting the eggs into the saucepai with the Bdchamel ; the sauce, beinj quite hot, will warm the eggs sufficientl}- Time.—10 minutes to boil the eggs Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or '. persons. Seasonable at any time. ELDER WINE. Ingredients.—To every 3 gallons o water allow 1 peck of elderberries ; tc J every gallon of juice allow 3 lbs. of sugar- ^ i oz. of ground ginger, 6 cloves, 1 lb. O 'l h good Turkey raisins ; ^ pint of brandjfl Ir to every gallon of wine. To every 9 gal- lons of wine, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls ox fresh brewer's yeast. Mode.—Pour the* s] water, quite boiling, on the elderberries*, which should be picked Irom the stalks, and let these stand covered for 24 hours then strain the whole through a sieve oi b;ig, breaking the fruit to express all the J „ juice from it. Measure the liquor, andd ij to every gallon allow the above proportioix iij of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar witbii \\ the ginger, cloves, and raisins for 1 hour/, skimming the liquor the whole time ; lefel it stand until milk-warm, then put it intc« q a clean dry cask, with 3 or 4 tablespoon-;- fuls of good fresh yeast to every 9 gallons- of wine. Let it ferment for about 8 fortnight; then add the brandy, bung up the cask, and let it stand some months before it is bottled, when it will be found excellent. A bunch of hops suspended to a string from the bung, some persons say, will preserve the wine good for several j-ears. Elder wine is usually mulled, and served with sipjiels of to'isted bread and a little grated nut- meg. Time. -To stand covered for 24 hours; to be boiled 1 hour, -dverafft