THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 259 Pork turning the flitches every other day. After that time they are hung up to dry. The hogs usually killed for pui-poses of bacon in England average from 18 to 20 stone; on the other hand, the hogs killed in the country for farm-house pur- poses, seldom weigh less than 26 stone. The legs of boars, hogs, and, in Ger- many, those of bears, are prepared diS'er- ently, and called hams. The practice in vogue formerly in this country was to cut out the hams and cure them separately; then to remove the ribs, which were roasted as " spare-ribs/'and, ciuing the remainder of the side, call it a "gammon of bacon." Small pork to cut for table in joints, is cut up, in most places throughout the king- dom, as represented in the engraving. The side is divided with nine ribs to the fore quarter; and the following is an enume- ration of the joints in the two respective EITIE OP A PIG, SHOWING THB EEVEEAL JOINTS. juarters:— IiND Quarter (1. The leg. < 2. The loin. ( 3. The spring, or belly. (4. The hand. ?ORE Quartern 5. The fore-loin. ( 6. The cheek. The weight of the several joints of a •ood pork pig of four stone may be as ollows ; viz.:— The leg 8 lbs. The loin and spring . 7 „ The hand . . . . 6 !. The chine The cheek from 2 to 3 )f a bacon pig, the legs are reserved for uring, and when cured are called hams: rhen tho moat is separated from the houlder-blado and bones and cured, it 1 called bacon. The bones, with part of ho meat left on them, are divided into pare-ribe, <jriskins, and chinos. Pork Cutlets, or Chops PORK CHEESE (an Excellent Breakfast Dish). Ingredients.—2 lbs. of cold roast pork, pepper and salt to taste, 1 dessertspoon- ful of minced parsley, 4 leaves of sage, a very small bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a little nutmeg, ^ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel; good strong gi'avy, sufficient to fill the mould. Mode.—Cut, but do not chop, the pork into fine pieces, and allow ^ lb. of fat to each pound of lean. Season with pei^per and salt; pound well the spices, and chop finely the parsley, sage, herbs, and lemon-peel, and mix the whole nicely together. Put it into a mould, fill up with good strong well- flavoured gravy, and bake rather more than one hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Seasonable from October to March. JVole.—The remains of a pig's head, after the chops are taken off, make most excellent pork cheese. PO:^ CUTLETS, or Chops, Ingredients. — Loin of pork, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut the cut- lets from a delicate loin of pork, bone and trim them neatly, and cut away the greater portion of the fat. Season them with pepper; place the gridiron on the fire; when quite hot, lay on the chops, and broil them for about ^ hour, turning them 3 or 4 times; and be particular that they are thoroughly done, but not dry. Dish them, sprinkle over a little fine salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce, sauce piquante, or pickled gher- kins, a few of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish. Time.—About hour. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.—Allow 6 for 4 per- sons. Seasonable from October to March. PORK CUTLETS, or Chops. Ingredients. — Loin, or fore-loin, of pork, egg and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste; to every tablespoonful of bread crumbs allow ^ teaspoonful of minced sage; clarified butter. Mode.— Cut the cutlets from a loin, or fore-loin, of pork ; trim them the same as mutton cutlets, and scrape tho top part of the bono. Brush them over with egg, sprin- kle with bread crumbs, witlx which have