ix nouse-Linea. I sheets ; mark, E, J. B., 6, 1S71. 1 pair turned, 1877 ; 1 pair cut up into glasa- i cloths, ISSO. I 52. At the periodical counting of the linen, the mistress should carefully exa- Cmine each article, opening sheets, darning thin places with flax, not cotton, and should endeavour each year to add some article to her stock. 53. After the first six years, a pair of sheets and a table-cloth should be sought each year, at least, as these aro very expensive articles to purchase in juantity. 54. Blankets are usually kept in the linen-press when out of use. They should 36 tied in pairs, and sewn up in an old linen pillow-case, with a lump of camphor in sach parcel, the name of the room or bed to which they belong should be added i,o the card sewn to the case. ■ 55. CoLOUKED Table CLOTHS, when out of use, should be kept in the linen- ■ress. 1 56. We prefer the good old-fashioned plan of the mistress herself counting ■rer the clean linen, examining it for repairs, and replacing it in the linen-press, "My these means she sees exactly what is wanted to be repaired or renewed, and ; ■ able, by taking things in time, to get a great deal of needlework done at home "■ith perfect ease to herself and maids ; and by looking over the linen herself, ■le knows exactly what mending is to be done each week, and neither allows an Mle girl to impose upon her, nor, on the other hand, makes unreasonable demands l her housemaiden's industry. At certain seasons a week's rest from all neodle- : flork should be given to servants ; this is to enable them to make a dress, or ■ '»rn or alter their clothes to advantage, as they can do more in a week's steady ■ fcrk than in a hundred odds and ends of stolen time. ,.,J HOUSE-LINEN". lEiJ^ 67. Of course, the House and Body Linen is regularly mended every week, but aiJ'fcry housewife knows that there are times when linen should undergo a more jjmhorough repair "-ing than it receives weekly. The linen list should be fiislamined, the linen counted, the list corrected, and any new linen carefully t»e»de and marl:ed. Sheets should be turned sides and middle and re-hemmed, or ,,:,3lher re-sewn, for the hems of all house-linen should be sown, not hemmed, jjsdll tablecloths may be cut up into tray or lunch cloths, old finger-napkins be ;,>:i*|Tied and fringed out into d'oyleys for vegetables or for placing under pie- J,io3t|hes. '^^'^^'^ Chints! Hangings make excellent dusters, neatly hemmed round, and '^''jjS pretty fringed d'oyleys may be made out of small squares of Holland, either »iJl*fecbed or unbleached. Now tablecloths or dinner-napkins may be marked in