XXXV To Thoroughly Clean a Bedroom. 205. The first thing to be done in the rooms is to empty the slops, and for Ithis she should take with her the slop-pail, a jug of boiling water, and two slop, cloths. 206. She should then lightly sweep up into her dustpan any fluff, scraps of paper, &c., that may be about the floor; straighten the carpet, if only side stiips are used, and arrange any of the furniture that may be out of its proper place. Then dust the room thoroughly, lifting all the things from the dressing-table and jhimney-piece and wiping each, dusting the looking-glass back and front, and removing, by rubbing, any spots that may appear on the plate. She should also lust the top and front of the chest of draweri, the front of the wardrobe, the lills and ledges of the windows and the door. She should then fill the water- ugs with soft and the bottles with clean cold water. Having completely finished me room, she should proceed to the next, and so through them all; and when ill are done, she should take downstairs all the candlesticks and hot-water jugs. Jesides this ordinary cleaning, each bedroom in the house should get a thorough ileaning once a week ; and they should be taken in regular rotation with the other rork. Thus the following is a good division :— 207. THE "WEEK'S WOBK OP AN EIGHT-BOOMED HOUSE. J Monday—Large bed- and dressing-room. ■ Tuesday—Second large bedroom, or two small. U "Wednesday—Dining-room and breakfast-room, 1 Thursday—Two smaller bedrooms. Friday—Drawing-room. ] Satm-day—Hall, kitchen, basement. I I 208. Also, if not carpeted all over, each bedroom should bo scoured out once a ortnight. j 209. Supposing, then, that it is Monday, and that one of the large bedrooms ; to bo scoured, she will, after having arranged the three others in the ordinary •ay, proceed to— THOROUGHLY CLEAN A BEDBOOM. I 210. For this she will first require a sweeping-brush, dustpan, and some moist i ^a-leaves, a furniture-brush, and duster. f211. Her first work will be to remove all the mattresses from the beds and 8h them with the furniture-brush, and to dust thoroughly all the joints and nccs of the bedstead. gl2. She will then make the bod, proceeding as before directed, except that she