so THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Cucumber Sauce CUCUMBER SAUCE. Ingredients.—Z or 4 cucumbers, 2 oz. of butter, G tablespoonfuls of brown ^rrnvy. Mode. — Peel the cucumbers, quarter tliem, and take out the seeds; cut them into small pieces, put them in a cloth, and rub them well to take out the water that hangs about them. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the cu- cumbers, and shake them over a sharp fii'c until they are of a good colour ; then pour over them the gravy, mixed with the cucumbers, and simmer gently for 10 minutes, when it will be ready to serve. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. CUCUMBER SAUCE, White. Ingredients.—3 or 4 cucumbers, h pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode.—Cut the cucumbers into small pieces, after i^eel- ing them and taking out the seeds. Put them in the stewpan with the white stock and seasoning; simmer gently till the cucumbers are tender, which will be in about \ hour. Then add the yolks of tho eggs, well beaten; stir them to the sauce, but do not allow it to boil, and serve vei-y hot. Time.—Altogether, h hour. CUCUMBER SOUP (French Re- cipe). higredients.—1 large cucumber, apiece of butter the size of a walnut, a little chervil and sorrel cut in largo pieces, salt and popper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 1 quart of medium stock. Mode.—Pare the cucumber, qxiar- 1,er it, and take out the seeds ; cut it in thin slices, put these on a plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them ; drain, and put them in your stewpan v/ith tho butter. When they are warmed through, without being browned, pour the stock on them. Add the soitcI, cher- and seasoning, and boil for 40 mi- nutes. Mix the well-beaten yolks of the eggs with the cream, which add at tho moment of serving. T'irae. — 1 hour. A verage cost, Is. 2d. per quart. Sufficient for 4 persons. <Sea507ia6^e from June to Sejitembor. CUCUMBER VIISTEGAR (a very nice addition to Salads). Ingrediejits.—10 largo cucumbers, or 12 smaller ones, 1 quart of vinegar, 2 Cucumbers, to Dress onions, 2 shalots, 1 tablespoonful of sa 2 tablespoonfuls of pepper, ^ teaspoonl of cayenne. Mode.—Pare and slice t cucumbers, put them in a stone jar wide-mouthed bottle with tho vinega slice the onions and shalots, and a< them, with all the other ingredients, the cucumbers. Let it stand 4 or 5 daj boil it all up, and, when cold, strain t liquor through a piece of muslin, ai store it away in small bottles well scale This vinegar is a very nice addition gravies, hashes, &c., as well as a grc improvement to salads, or to eat wi cold meat. CUCUMBERS, to Dress. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of .=ala oil, 4 tablesjjoonfuls of vinegar, s-alt a pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare the c cumber, cut it equally into very tit CUCUMBEB-SLICES. slices, and commence cutting from t Ikick end; if commenced at the stal the cucumber will most likely have exceedingly bitter taste, far from agit able. For the purpose of slicing oiciii hers evenly and very thin, we rccomme: the slice in preference to an ordinn knife. Put the slices into a dish, spriul over salt and pepper, and pour over oil and vinegar in tho above pro- portion ; turn SLICED CUCrMBEHS. the cucumber about, and it is ready servo. This is a fiivourito accompai ment to boiled salmon, is a nice additi' to all descriptions of salads, and niak a pretty garnish to lobster salad. ^1 v( CKje cost, when scarce. Is. to 2.?. tn/ when cheapest, may be had for \d. eac Sea.tonahle.—Yorcedi from the bcginni: of March to tho end of Juno; in full sc eon in July, August, and September.