THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 238 Paste, Puff, Medium and put another 4 oz. of butter. Repeat the rolling and buttering until the paste has been rolled out 4 jimes, or equal quantities of flour and butter have boon used. Do not omit, every time the paste is rolled out, to dredge a little flour over that and the rolling-pin, to prevent both from sticking. Handle the paste as lightly as possible, and do not press heavily upon it with the rolling-pin. The next thing to be considered is the oven, as the baking of pastry requires particular attention. Do not put it into the oven until it is sufficiently hot to raise the paste; for the best-prepared paste, if not properly baked, will be good for nothing. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an egg, assists it to rise in leaves OT flakes. As this is the great beauty of puff-paste, it is as well to try this method. Average cost, Is. id. per lb. PASTE, Puff, Medium. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, 4 oz, of lard, not quite ^ pint of water. Mode. —This paste may be made by the directions in the preceding recipe, only using less butter, and substituting lard for a portion of it. Mix the floTir to a smooth paste with not quite h pint of water; then roll it out 3 timesr the first time covering the paste with ljutter, the second with lard, and the third with butter. Keep the roUing-pin and paste slightly dredged with flour, to prevent them from stick- ing, and it will be ready for use. Average cost, Is. per lb. PASTE, Puff (Soyer's Recipe). Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow the yolk of 1 egg, the juice of 1 lemon, J saltspoonful of salt, cold water, 1 lb. of fresh butter, i/oie.—Put the flour on to the paste-board ; make a hole in the centre, into which put the yolk of the egg, the lemon-juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold water (this should be iced in summer, if convenient) into a Boft flexible paste, with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible ; then squeeze all the buttermilk from the butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the butter on this, and fold th« edges of the paste over, so as to hide it: roll it out again to the thickness of i inch; fold over one third, over which again pass the roUing-pin 4 then Pastry and Puddings fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some cool place for J hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again upon the ice for | hour, give it 2 more rolls, making 7 in all, and it is ready for use when required. Average cost, li. 6rf. per lb. PASTRY AND PTTDDINGS, Directions in connection with the making of. A few general remarks respecting the various ingredients of which puddings and pastry are composed may be accept- able, in addition to the recipes in this department of Household Management. Flour should be of the best quality, and perfectly dry, and sifted before being used; if in the least damp, the paste made from it will certairdy be heavy. Butter, unless fresh is used, should be washed from the salt, and well squeezed and wrung in a cloth, to get out all the water and buttermilk, which, if left in, assist to make the paste heavy. Lard should be perfectly sweet, which may be ascertained by cutting the bladder through, and, if the knife smells sweet, the lard is good. Suet should be finely chopped, perfectly free fx-om skin, and quite sweet; during the process of chopping, it should be lightly dredged with flour, which prevents the pieces from sticking together. Beef suet is considered the best; but veal suet, or the outside fat of a loin or neck of mutton, makes good crusts; as also the skimmings in which a joint of mutton has been boiled, but without vegetables. Clarified Beef Dripinng answers very well for kitchen pies, puddings, cakes, or for family use. A very good short crust may be made by mixing with it a small quantity of moist sugar ; but care must be taken to use the dripping sparingl)-, or a very disagreeable flavoiu" will be imparted to the paste. Strict cleanliness must be observed la pastry-making; all the utensils used should be perfectly free from dust and dirt, and the things required for pastry kevt entirely for that purpoie.