314 THE CICTIONAUY OF COOKER?. Shrimp Sauce Mode.—Boat tho butter to a cream, gradually dredge iu the flour, and add the sugar, caraway seeds, and sweet almonds, which should be blanched and cut into small pieces. Work the paste until it. is quite smooth, and divide it into six ijieces. Put each cake on a separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about an SHOniBEEAD. inch, and pincli it upon all sides. Prick it well, and ornament with one or two strips of candied orange-peel. Put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from 25 to 30 minutes, fivie.—25 to 30 minutes. Averacje cost, for this quan- tity, 2s. Sufficient to make 6 cakes. Seasonable at any time. JVote.—Where the flavour of the cara- way seeds is disliked, omit them, and add rather a larger proportion of can- died peel. SHRIMP SAUCE, for Various Kinds of Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of melted butter, J pint of picked shrimps, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Make the melted butter very smoothly, shell the shrimps (sufii- cient to make ^ pint when picked), and put them into the butter; season with cayenne, and let the sauce just simmer, but do not allow it to boil. When liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce may be added. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SHBIMPS OB PBAWNS, to Boil. Ingredients.—^ lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Prawns should be very red, and have no spawn under the tii,il; much depends on their freshness ana the way in which they are cooked. Throw them into boiling water, salted as above, and keep them boiling for about 7 or 8 minutes. Shrimps should be done in the same way; but loss time must be allowed. It may easily be known when they are done by their changing colour. Care should be taken that they are not over-boiled, as tliey then become taste- less ftn4 indigestible. ^TiJ/ie.—Prawns, Skate, Boiled about 8 minutes; shrimps, about f5 minutes. Average cost, prawns, 2s. pei ■ lb. ; shrimps, 6d. per pint. SecuonabU i all the year. SHRIMPS OB PBAWNS, Bat-; tered. Ingredients.j-l pint of picked prawn* or shrimps, f pint of stock, thickenin. of butter and flour; salt, cayenne, anu nutmeg to taste. J/orfe. — Pick the prawns or shrimps, and put them in a stewpan with the stock ; add a thicken- ing of butter and flour; season, and simmer gently for 3 minutes. Serve on a dish garnished with fried bread or toasted sippets. Cream sauce may be substituted for the gravy. Tirae. — 3 minutes. Average cost for this quan-. tity. Is. id. SHRIMPS, Potted. Ingredients.—1 pint of shelled shrimps, , \ lb. of fresh butter, 1 blade of pounded: mace, cayenne to taste ; when liked, a little nutmeg. Mode.—Have ready a* pint of picked shrimps, and put them,, with the other ingredients, into a stew- • pan ; let them heat gradually in the. butter, but do not let it boil. Pour into, small pots, and when cold, cover with. melted butter, and carefully exclude tbes air. Time.—\ hour to soak in the butter.. Average cost for this quantity, 1*. 3tZ. SKATE, to choose. This fish should be chosen for its firm- • ness, breadth, and thickness, and should : have a creamy appearance. Wlien; crimped, it should not be kept longer- than a day or two, as all kinds of crimped • fish soon become sour. Thomback is* often substituted for skate, but is very. inferior in quality to the true skate. SKATE, Boiled. Ingredients.—\ lb. of salt to each gal- lon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and skin ■ the skate, lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it simmer very • gently till done; then dish it on a hot. napkin, and serve with shrimp, lobster, or caper sauce. Time.—According t-o size, from ^ to 1 hour. Average cost, id, ]jer lb. Seasonable from August to April.