TEE DICTIONARY OP COOKEltY, 120 Fig Pudding FIG PUDDING. Ingredienis.—2 lbs. of figs, 1 lb. of Buet, i lb. of flour, }, lb. of bread cmmb.s, 2 eggs, milk. Moie.—Cwt the figs into Email pieces, grato the bread finely, and chop the suet very small; mix tliesc well together, add the flour, the eggs, which should be well beaten, and suSicient milk to form the whole into a stiff paste ; but- ter a mould or basin, press the pudding into it very closely, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours, or rather longer; turn it out of the mould, and serve ;vith melted butter, wine-sauce, or cream. Time,—3 hours, or longer. Ave- rage cost, 2s. Sufficient for 7 or 8 per- sons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding. FIG PUDDING (Staflfordsliire Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 lb. of figs, 6 oz. of suet, f lb. of flour, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix with it the flour, and make these into a smooth paste with milk ; roll it out to the thickness of about \ inch, cut the figs in small pieces, and strew them over the paste ; roll it up, make the ends secure, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it from 1^ to 2 hours. Time.—15 to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. \d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. »S^ea- sonahle at any time. FIGS, Compote of Green. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup, li pint of green figs, the rind of A lemon. Mode. —Make a syrup as directed, boiling with it the lemon-rind, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Put in the figs, and simmer them very slowly until ten- der ; dish them on a glass dish ; reduce the syrup by boihng it quickly for 5 COMPOTE OF FIGS. minutes; take out the lemon-peel, pour the syrup over the figs, and the conipCte, when cold, will be ready for table. A little port wine, or lemon-juice, added just before the figs are done, will be found an improvement. Time.—2 to 3 hours to stew the figs. Average cost, figs, 2s. to 3,9. per dozen. Seasonable in August and September. Fish, General Directions F-ISH. Fish shortly before they spawn a in general, best in condition. Wb the spawning is just over, they are c of season, and unfit for human food. When fish is out of season, it has transparent, bluish tinge, howevei mu it may bo boiled ; whenever it is in f< son, its muscles are fii-m, and boil wh and curdy. As food for invalids, wliito fish, su as the ling, cod, haddock, coal fisb, a whiting, are the best; flat fish, as so! skate, turbot, and flounders, are a good. Salmon, mackerel, herrings, and trc • soon spoil or decompose after they ! killed; therefore, to be in perfectic they should bo prepared for the tal on the day they are caught. With f fish, this is not of such consequence, they will keep longer. The turbot, • example, is improved by being kept :: a few hours. FISH, General Directions i Dressing. In dressing fish of any kind, the fi point to bo attended to, is to see that is perfectly clean. It is a common en ■ to wash it too much, as by doing so t flavour is diminished. If the fish is to boiled, a little salt and vinegar shoi be put into the water, to give it firmne after it is cleaned. Cod-fish, whitir and haddock, are none the worse 1 being a little salted, and kept a da and, if the weather be not very hot, ihi' will be good for two days. When fish is cheap and plentiful, a a larger quantity is purchased than immediately wanted, the overplus of su as will bear it should be potted, pickled, or salted, and hung up ; or may be fried, that it niay serve for ste ing the next day. Fresh-water fis having frequently a muddy smell a' taste, should be soaked in stronjj salt ai ' water, after it has been well cleaned, of a suflficient size, it may be scalded salt and water, and afterwards dried ai dressed. Fish should be put into cold water ai ] '• set on the fire to do very gently, or titi » outside will break before tlie inner pa is done. Unless the fislies are sina they should never bo put into war water ; nor should water, either hot cold, be poured on to the fish, as it