THE DICTIONARY OF COOTCERY. 26 Beans, Boiled French preceding recipe, until nearly done; then drain them and put them into a stewpan •with the stock, finely-minced herbs, and sugar. Stew the beans untU per- fectly tender, and the liquor has dried away a little ; then beat up the yoUc of an egg with the cream, add this to the beans, let the whole get thoroughly hot, and when on the point of simmering, serve. Should the beans be very large, the skin should be removed previously to boiling them. Time.—10 minutes to boil the beans, 15 minutes to stew them in the stock. A verage cost, unshelled, Qd. per peck. Seasonable in July and August. BEANS, Boiled French, Ingredienls.—To each h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, a very small piece of soda. Mode.—This vegetable should always be eaten young, as when allowed to grow too long it tastes stringy and tough when cooked. Cut off the heads and taUs, and a thin strip on each side of the beans to remove the strings; then divide each beau into 4 or 6 pieces, according to size, cutting them lengthways in a slanting direction, and as they are cut put them into cold water, ■with a small quantity of salt dissolved in it. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; put in the beans, keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, and be careful that they do not get smoked. When tender, which may be ascertained by their sinking to the bot- tom of the saucepan, take them up, pour them into a colander, and when drained, dish and serve with plain melted butter. When very young, beans are sometimes served whole: thus dressed, their colour and flavour are much better preserved, but the more general way of sending them to table is to cut them into thin strips. Time.—Very young beans, 10 to 12 minutes ; moderate size, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost, in full season. Is. id. per peck, but •wlien forced very expensive. Sufficient. —Allow J peck for (5 or 7 persons. Sea- sonable from the middle of July to the end of September, but may bo had forced fi-om February to the beginning of June. BEAN'S, French Mode of Cooking French. Ingredients.—A quart of French beans, 8 oz. of fresh butter, pei)por and salt to Beans, Haricots Blancs, &c. taste, the juice of ^ lemon. Modc.~C\d i and boil the beans by the preHug recipe, and when tender, put them ! • / o a stewpan, and shake over the fi dry away the moisture from the i When quite dry and hot, add the bu. itr, j| pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; keep ing the stewpan, without using a as that would break the beans; anu the butter is melted, and all is thoro hot, serve. If the butter should no; well, add a tablespoonful of gravy, and serve very quickly. Time.— About \ hour to boil the beans; 10 minutes U shake them over the fire. A verage cod. in full season, about Is. M. per peck! Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SeasonaV' from the middle of July to the end o September. BEANS, to Boil Haricots Blancs or White Haricot. Ingredients.—1 quart of white haricol f beans, 2 quarts of soft water, 1 oz. c: butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of "lalt Mode.—Put the beans into cold • let them soak from 2 to 4 hours, acco, . to their age; then put them into opli water salted in the above proportion, . bring them to boil, and let them sin.mei I very slowly imtil tender ; pour the w.itei t away from them, let them stand by thi side of the fire, with the lid of the p : pan partially off, to allow the be:, dry; then add 1 oz. of butter : seasoning of pepper and salt, the beans about lor a minute or two, i serve : do not stir them with a sp^ for fear of breaking them to pia Time.—After the water boils, from) 2.^ hours. Average cost, 4cZ. per qu Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Season in winter, when other vegetables scarce. ^^ote.—Haricots blancs, when newj fresh, should be put into boiling and do not require any soaking previotf to dressing. BEANS, Haricots Blancs & Mince* Onions. Ingredients.—1 quart of white harico beans, 4 middling-sized onions, ^ pint o good brown gravj% pepper and salt t taste, a little flour. Modc—Veel an. mince the onions not too finely, and fr; them in butter of a light brown coloitr dredge over them a little flour, and a*