]i Both Make the Beds. ;oucli it at all. They should be immediately wiped in the coarse cloth, and laid iside to be cleaned. 320. She should then wipe thoroughly dry all the china and ware, using for .he cups and saucers the tea-towels only; but the dishes and plates must be wiped first with the coarse towel, and finished off afterwards with the finer one. 321. The silver should be washed in a separate bowl. It should be wiped ;horoughly dry, and afterwards be rubbed up with a clean leather. The teapot, f of silver or Britannia metal, should be rubbed up also. 322. All the things being clean, they should be immediately put by—the china \nd ware in their appointed places on the dresser or in the cupboard, the knives a the knife-box, the silver in the silver-basket, the salt-cellars and cruet-stand vherever they are usually kept, but the sideboard cellaret is the best place. It s a good thing, also, to take the silver up and put it in the sideboard immediately, rhen the pails should be emptied and wiped out, and the cloths rinsed and hung ip to dry, 323. The cook should then tidy up her kitchen and scullery in readiness for ler mistress when she- comes down to inspect and give her orders for the day. 324. THE BEDROOMS. Whilst the cook has been removing the breakfast things and washing them ip— THE HOUSEMAID EMPTIES THE SLOPS. 825. For this she should take upstairs a slop-pail, a can of boiling water, and .wo slop-cloths. 326. As she empties each vessel she should scald it out, then wipe it perfectly Iry. She should empty the tin baths, wipe them very dry, and turn them up on end igainst the wall. Empty any water that may remain in the water-jugs, bottles, ind tumblers, and rinse them out—the bottles and tumblers with tepid water, ■iinse out and wipe the soap-dish and the brush-dish; wipe down the tops of ;he stands, and replace all the things in their proper position. Jvl doing this ihe must be very particular to use one of the cloths with the washing apparatus )nly. Having finished this work in one room, she should go to another, and so through them all. She should then take downstairs her slop-pail, water-can, sloths, and hot-water jugs and chamber candlesticks, and then, being joined by ,he cook, who will have washed her hands and put on a large clean apron for ihe purpose, they will— BOTH MAKE THE BEDS