PHILOSOPHY OF HOUSEKEEPING. lOI BOUTINE OP HOUSEHOLD "WORKS AITD WAYS. 1. If the Mistress of a household considers that she is steward of her husband's operty, and that upon her diligence, knowledge, and capability depends tha lire happiness of her household, she will understand how important is her post, d how any negligence on her part must necessarily repeat itself in the conduct her domestics. It is seldom requisite that a mistress should perform other )rk than that of supervising her household, choosing and paying for household ijuisites ; but it is imperative that she should clearly understand the " Philo- phy of Housekeeping," and that she should not be the dupe of designing servants the ignorant director of an equally ignorant maid. Every household rangement must differ in detail—in way and modes of living as well as in mbers. No book can give exact laws and regulations which will be found table to every house ; but common-sense rules aj ply to every household in all itions of life, and the results of years of experience must be of service to ung beginners. 2. The difficulties which besot young mistresses of households are great, but an elligent arrangement soon makes these difficulties disappear; and once the itine duties of households ai'e arranged, it is easy to go on with regularity and nfort. 3. No amount of love, of beauty, or of intelligence will make home happy with- ;a " right judgment" on the part of the housewife. A woman must rule her .isehold, or bo ruled by it; she must either hold the reins with a tight, firm id, never pariing with, but seldom using, tho whip ; or the reins fi ll from the 3, careless hand, and are seized by suburdinates, and the hard-working hus- id is placed, by his wife's indolence, under the control of his domestics, and i to depend upon their honeaty and zeal alone. 4. Earlt Rising on tho part of the mistress is even more essential than for tho vants to be early risers ; for if the maids see that the mistress does not stir an early hour, they think that they may indulge a little too : but if the a