139 THE DICTIONABY OF COOKERY. Gingerbread-Uuta itter into the flour; add the sugar, liich should be finely pounded and sift- I, and the minced lemon-rind, ginger, »d nutmeg. Mix these well together; ike tho milk just warm, stir in the ila, and work the whole into a nice looth paste; roll it out, cut it into kes, and bako in a moderate oven bin 15 to 20 minutes. Time—15 to 20 inutes. Average cost, Is. 3d. Season' lis at any time. ItNGEBBREAD - NUTS, Eicli I Sweetmeats. Ungredients.—1 lb. of treacle, \ lb. of Irified butter, 1 lb. of coarse brown bar, 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of tidied orange-peel, 1 oz. of candied an- lica. i oz. of candied lemou-peel, ^ oz. I coriander seeds, ^ oz. of caraway Ids, 1 egg; Hour. Mode.—Put the lacle into a basin, and pour over it tho Iter, melted so as not to oil, the sugar, U ginger. Stir these ingredients well Icther, and whilst mixing, add the Bdied peel, which should be cut into my small pieces, but not bruised, and ■ caraway ami coriander seeds, which ftuld be pounded. Having mixed all Iroughly together, break in an egg, m work tho whole up with as much m flour as may be necessary to form a Bte. Make this into nuts of any size, ■ put them on a tin plate, and bake II slow oven from \ to hour. Time. I to ^ hour. Avertir/e cost, from Is. to l4c{. per lb. Seasouuljle at any time. IeTGERBREAD-NUTS, Sunder- lland. (An Excellent Beclpe.) migredients.—1^ lb. of treacle, 1 lb. of Hst sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 2^ lbs. lour, oz. of ground ginger, 1.^ oz. ■allspice, Ih oz. of coriander-seeds. He.—liCt the allspice, coriander-seeds, ■ ginger be freshly ground ; put them ■ a basin, with the flour and sugar, H mix these ingredients well together; Hn the treacle and butter together; ■i with a spoon work it into the flour, T until the whole forms a nice smooth I 0. Drop tho mixture from the spoon JI niece of buttered paper, and bake lather a slow oven from 20 minutes t hour. A little candied lemon-peel n ;d with tho above is an improvement, • a great authority in culinary matters frosts tho addition of a little cayenne 9 )er in gingerbread. Whether it bo Glaze-Kettle advisable to use the latter ingredient or not, we leave our readers to decide. Time.—20 minutes to h hour. Average cost, Is. to Is. id. per lb. iSeasonable at any time. GLAZE for covering Cold Hams, Tongues, &c. Ingredients-—Stock, doubling the quan- tity of meat in the recipes. Mode.—Wo may remark at the outset, that unless glaze is wanted in very large quantities, it is seldom made expressly. Either of the stocks, boiled down and reduced very considerably, will be found to pro- duce a very good gliize. Put the stock into a stewpan, over a nice clear fire; let it boil till it becomes somewhat stiff, when keep stirring, to prevent its burn- ing. The moment it is sufficiently re- duced, and come to a glaze, turn it into the glaze pot belbre it gets cold. As, how- ever, this is not to be found in every establishment, a white earthenware jar would answer the purpose ; and this may be placed in a vessel of boiling water, to melt the glaze when required. It should never be warmed in a saucsepan, except on the principle of the bain marie, lest it should rciluce too much, and become black and bitter. If the glaze is wanted of a pale colour, more veal than beef should be used in making the stock; and it is as well to omit turuips and celery, as these impart a disagreeable bitter flavour. GLAZE-KETTLE. This is a kettle used for keeping the strong stock boiled down to a jelly, which is known by tho name of glaze. It is composed of two tin vessels, as CLAZS-EEIILTI. shown in tho cut, one of which, the upper,—containing tho glaze, is inserted into one of larger diameter, and coB' taining boiling water. Il