THE dictionahy of cookery. 129 Fowl, Boilori, and Hice ;vingmanner. Put tlic niiislirooras into itowpaii with a small |>icce vf butrcr, 0 liniii, a suasouinguf i)Oiipcr and salt, il the gravy; simmer these gently for inur, ailtl iho lemon-juice Jiml sugar, ih the fowl, and pour the sauce mund ;m. Time.—To roast the fowl, 35 nules ; to broil it, 10 to 15 minutes. erar/e co.ol, in full season, 2s. 6d. Snffi- iit for 4 or 5 persons. Seasnnahle.— full season from May to January. )WL, Boiled, and Bice. 'iirjredien(s.—l fowl, mutton broth, 2 ons, 2 small blades of pounderl mace, ipcr an'l salt to taste, ^ pint of rico, sley and butter. Mode.—Truss the 1ms for boiling, and put it into a stow- 1 with sufficient clear well-skimmed tton broth to cover it; add the < nion, 30, and a seasoning of pepper and ,; stew very gently for about 1 hour, uld the fowl be largo, and about ^ V before it is ready put in the rice, cli should be well washed and snaked, cn the latter is tender, strain it from liquor, and put it on a sieve reversed ry before the fire, and, in the mean 3, keep the fowl hot. Dish it, put rice roirad as a border, pour a little ;ley and butter over the fowl, and the ainder send to table in a tureen. e.—A largo fowl, 1 lioiir. Avenvje 2s. (id. ^ujlicieiit for 3 or 4 persons. onable all the year. WLS, to Bone, for Fricassees, Curries, and Pies. rst carve them entirely into joints, remove the bones, beginning with the and wings, at the head of the largest !; hold this with the fingers, and : the knife as directed in the recipe e. The remainder of the birds is easily done to require any iustruc- ^li. Croquettes of (an Entr6e). jreilients.—Z or 4 shalots, 1 oz. of ;r, 1 teaspoon fill of floi.r, white 5; pepper, salt, and pounded mace ste ,* !, tcaspoouful of pounded sugar, e i.aius of coM roast fowls, the yolks iggs, egg, atid bread-crumbs. Mode. nco the fowl, carefully removing all and bono, and fry the shalots in the r; add the minced fowl, drcdgo in our, put in the popper, salt, mace, ' Fowl, Curried pounded sugar, and sufficient white sauco to moisten it,; stir to it the yolks of 2 well-boaten Gg^s, and set it by to cool. Then make the mixture up int<s balls, egg and bi'ead-crumb them, and fry a nice brown 'I'hey may bo served on a "border of mashed jiotatous, with aravj or sauce in the centre. Time.—10 mi- nutes to fiy the balls. Seasonable at any time. FOWL AKTD RICE, Croquettes ol (an Entree), Ingredients.—^ lb. of rice, 1 quart of stock or broth, 3 oz. of butter, minced fowl, egg, and bread-crumbs. Mode.— Put the rice into the above proportion of cold stock or broth, and let it boil very gently for K hour; then add tho butter, and simmer it till quite dry and soft. When cold, make it into balls, hoUovv ont the inside, and fill with minced fowl made by recipe. Tho mince shoidd bo rather thick. Cover over with rice, dip the balls into egg, sprinkle them with bread- crumbs, and fry a nice brown. Dish them, and garnish with fned parsley. Oysters, white sauce, or a littlo cream, may bo stirred into the rice before it cools. Time.—^ hour to boil the rico, 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Ave- rage cost, cxchisive of the fowl, ?>d. Sea- sonable at any time. FOWL, Curried. Ingredients.—\ fowl, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions sliced, 1 pint of white veal gravy, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 table- spoonful of flour, 1 api>le, 4 tablespoon- fuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice. il/o(/e.—Put the butter into a stcwpan, with the onions sliced, the fowl cut into small joints, and t^lio apple peeled, cored, and minced. Fry of a pale brown, add the stock, and stew gently for 20 minutes; rub down the cuiTy-powder and flour with a littlo of tho gravy, quite smoothly, and stir this to tho other ingredients; simmer for rather more than h hour, and just before serving, add the a'hovo proportion of hot cream and letuon-juico. Servo with boiled rice, which may either be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or put round the curry as a border. Time. —50 mi- nutes. Average cost, Zs. dd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in the winter. iVote.—This ciirry may be made of cold 6