TEE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 260 Pork Cutlets been mixed minced sngo and a seasoning of popper and salt; drop a littlo chu-ified butter on them, and press the crumbs well down. Put the Irying-pan on the fire, put in some lard ; when this is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a light brown on both sides. Take them out, put them before the fire to dry the greasy moisture from them, and dish them on mashed potatoes. Servo with them any sauce that may be preferred ; such as tomato sauce, sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or pickled gherkins. Time.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, \Qd. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.— Allow 6 cutlets for 4 persons. Season- able from October to March. Note.—The remains of roast loin of pork may be dressed in the same manner. PORK CUTLETS. I^CoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of cold roast loin of pork, 1 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 dessertspoon- ful of flour, h pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar and mustard. Mode.—Cut the pork into nice-sized cutlets, trim off most of the fat, and chop the onions. Put the butter into a stewpan, lay in the cutlets and chopped onions, and fry a light brown ; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer gently for 5 or 7 minutes, and serve. 2'me.—5 to 7 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Season- able from October to March. POBK, Eoast Griskin of. liigredients.—Pork ; a little powdered Bage. Mode.—As this joint frequently comes to table hard and dry, particular care should bo taken that it is well basted. Put it down to a bright fire, SPAKE-HIB OV POBI. and flour it. About 10 minutes beforo taking it up, sprinkle over some pow- dered" sago ; make a littlo gravy in the dripping-pan, strain it over the meat, Pork, Boiled Leg of and serve with a tureen of apple sauce. I'his joint will be done in far less time than when the skin is left on, conse- quently, should have the greatest attcn- GHISKIS^ OP POBK. tion that it be not dried up. Time.— Griskin of pork weighing 6 lbs., 1^ hour. Average cost, Id. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. Note.—A spare-rib of pork is roasted in the same manner as above, and would take li hour for one weighing about 6 lbs. PORK, Hashed. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast pork, 2 onions, 1 teaspoonful o\ flour, 2 blades of pounded mace, 2 cloves, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, .J piul of gravy, pepper and salt to taste Mode.—Chop the onions and fry the:, of a nice brown ; cut the pork into thii . slices, season them with pepper and salt:,| and add these to the remaining ingre dients. Stew gently for about hour and serve garnished with sippets o toasted bread. Time.—?, hour. Avcrag cost, exclusive of the meat, 3(^. Season able from October to March. PORK, Boiled Leg of. Ingredients.—Leg of pork ; salt. Modt —For boiling, choose a small, corapact i well-filled leg, and rub it well with salt: let it remain in pickle for a week cc ten days, turning and rubbing it ever: day. An hour before dressing it, put: into cold water for an hour, which in i proves the colour. If the pork is pu;j chased ready salted, ascerUxin how lonn the meat has been in jiicklo, and soa ' it according]}'. Put it into a boiling-po , with sufficient cold water to cover it lot it gradually come to a boil, and r- move the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until tender, and do m allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle w fall to pieces before the middle t! leg is done. Carrots, tuniips, or pai nips may be boiled with the pork, sop of which should bo laid round the dii