THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 240 Pastry and Puddings To ascertain when the oven is heated to the proper degree for puff-pajte, put a small piece of the paste in prnvious to baking the whole, and then the heat can thus be judged of. The freshness of all pudding ingredients is of much importance, as one bad article will taint the whole mixture. When the fresJuiess of eggs is doubtful, break each one separately in a cup, before mixing them altogether. Should there be a bad one amongst them, it can be thrown away ; whereas, if mixed with the good ones, the entire quantity would be spoiled. The yolks and whites beaten separately make the articles they are put into much lighter. Raisins and dried fruits for puddings should be carefully picked, and in many cases stoned. Currants should be well washed, pressed in a cloth, and placed on a dish before the fire to get thoroughly dry: they should then be picked care- fully over, and even/ piece of grit or stone removed from amongst them. To plump them, some cooks pour boiling water over them, and then dry them before the fire. Batter pudding should be smoothly mixed and free from lumps. To insure this, first mix the flour with a very small proportion of milk, and add the remain- der by degrees. Should the pudding be very lumpy, it may be strained thi-ough a hair sieve. AII boiled puddings should be put on in boiling water, which must not be allowed to stop simmering, and the pudding must always be coverca with the water; if requi- site, the sauce- pan should be kept filled up. To prevent a pudding boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of the aaucepar, place a small plate or saucer underneath it, and set the pan on a trivet over the firo, If a mould is used, this precaution is not necessary ; but care must bo taken to keep the pudding well covered with water. For dishing a boiled pudding as soon as it comes out of tho pot, dip it into a basin of cold wi-icr. and tho cloUi will Pastry and Puddings BOILBD-PUDDIIfO MOULD, then not adhere to it. Great expedition is necessary in sending puddings to table, as by standing they quickly become heavy, batter puddings particularly. BOILED PUDDIirO MOULD. For baked or boiled puddings, the moulds, cups, or basins should be always buttered before the mixture is put "in them, and they should be put into the saucepan directly they are filled. Scrupulous attention should be paid to the cleanliness of pudding-cloths, as from neglect in this particular the out- piTDDiira-Bisiir. sides of boiled puddings frequently taste very disagreeably. As soon as pos- sible after it is taken off the pudding, it should be soaked in water, and then well washed, without soap, unless it be very greasy. It should be dried out of doors, then folded up and kept in a dry place. When wanted for use, dip it in boiling water, and dredge it slightly with flour. The dry ingredieiits for puddings are better for being mixed some time before they are wanted; the liquid portion should only be added just before the pudding is put into the saucepan. A pinch of salt is an improvement to tho generality of puddings; but this ingredient should bo added very spar- ingly, as the flavour should not bo detected. When baked puddings are sufficiently solid, turn them out of the dish they were baked in, bottom uppermost, and strew over them fine-sifted sugar. When pastry or baked puddings are not done through, and yet tho outside is sufficiently brown, cover them over with a piece of white paper until thoroughly coolced : this prevents them from getting burnt.