304 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bauce, Bread tasto ; 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—PcgI and quarter the onion, and simmer it in the milk till perfectly tender. Break the bread, which should bo stale, into small pieces, carefully picking out any hard or side pieces ; put it in a very clean sauce- pan, strain the milk over it, cover it up, and let it remain for an hour to soak. Now beat it up with a fork very smoothly, add a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne, and salt, with 1 oz. of butter; give the whole one boil, and sci-ve. To enrich this sauce, a small quantity of cream may be added just before seuding it to table. Time.—Altogether, If hour. Average cost iovihiBqaaxiixtj, 4d. Suf- ficient to serve with a turkey, pair of fowls, or brace of partridges, SAUCE, Bread (to serve with Boast Tiirkey, Fowl, Game, &c). Ingredients.—Giblets of poultry, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion, 12 whole peppers, 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or melted butter, 1 pint of water. Mode.— Put the giblets, with the head, neck, legs, &c., into a stewpan ; add the onion, fepper, mace, salt, and rather more than pint of water. Let this simmer for an hour, when strain the liquor over the bread, which should be previously grated or broken into small pieces. Cover up the saucepan, and leave it for an hour by the side of the fire ; then beat the sauce up with a fork until no lumps remain, and the whole is nice and smooth. Let it boil for 3 or 4 minutes ; keep stirring it until it is rather thick; when add 3 table- spoonfuls of good melted butter or cream, and serve very hot. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost, 6d. SAUCE, Christoplier ITorth's, for Meat or Game. Ingredients.—1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, 1 des- sertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, ditto of pounded whito sugai', 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, ditto of salt. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, and beat the sauce gratlually, by placing the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water. Do not allow it to boil, and serve directly it is ready. This sauce, if bottled immediately, will keep good for a fortnight, and will be found ozcellcut. Sauce, Epicurean SAUCE, Dutch, for Fish. Ingredients. — h teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of A lemon ; salt to taste. Mode.—Put all'the ingredients, except the lemon-juice, into a stewpan ; set it over the fire, and keep continually stirring. When it is sufiiciently thick, take it off, as it should not boil. If, however, it happens to curdle, strain that sauce through a tammy, add the lemon- juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may" be used instead of plain, and, by many, is considered far preferable. Average', cost, 6d. Note.—This sauce may be poured hot over salad, and left to get quite cold, when it should be thick, smooth, and somewhat stifi". Excellent salads may ber made of hard eggs, or the remains of salt fish flaked nicely from the bone, by. pouring over a little of the above mixture, when hot, and allowing it to cool. SAUCE, Green Dutch, or Hollan- daise Verte. Ingredients. — 6 tablespoonfuls of B&hamel, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, a little parsley-green to colour, the juice of h a lemon. Mode.—Put the B€chamel into a saucepan with the seasoning, and bring it to a boil. Make a green colouring by pounding some parsley in a mortar, and squeezing all the juice from it. Let this just simmer, when add it to the sauce. A moment before sei-ving, put in the lemon-juice, but not before ; for otherwise the sauce would turn, yellow, and its appearance bo thus spoiled. Average cost, Ad. SAUCE, Epicurean, for Steaks, Chops, Gravies, or Fish. Ingredients.—\ pint of walnut ketchup, I pint of mushroom ditto, 2 tablespoon- fuls of Indian soy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine ; i oz. of whito popper, 2 oz. of shalots, j( oz. of cayenne, i oz. of cloves, I pint of vinegar. Moae.—Put the whole of the ingredients into a bolllo. and lot it remain for a fortnight in a warm place, occasionally shaking up the contents. Strain, and bottle ofi" for uso. This sauce will be found an agreeable addition to gravies, hashes, stows, &.Q, Average cost, for this quantity, Is. Qd.