89 THE DICTIONARY 01? COOKEUY. Crast, Dripping ^ 1 the midtlle of tho flour; pour in the ; -ator gi-adually, beat it well with a > ooden spoon, and be particidar in nob ■Making tho pasto too soft. When it is !• oil mixed, knead it with the hnnds mil quite stiff, dredging a little flour - i-cr the paste and board to prevent them i -om sticking. When it is well kneaded, . lace it before the fire, with a cloth '■'i )verod over it, for a few minutes ; it will J en bo more easily worked into shape. liis paste docs not taste so nicely as richer one, but it is worked with •eater facility, and answers just as well ' r raised pies, for the crust is seldom ^ iten. Average cost, 5d. per lb. I RUST, Dripping, for Kitchen Pud- dings, Pies, &c. i: Ingrecllenta.—To every lb. of flour al- ■ w 6 oz. of clarified beef dripping, ^ pint ;i water. Mode.—After having clarified •e, e dripping, weigh it, and to every lb. 03 flour allow tho above proportion of d; ipping. With a kuife, work the flour ;-. to a smooth paste with tiro water, roll- li J it out three times, each time placing 1 i the crust 2 oz. of tlie dripping broken i to small pieces. If this paste is lightly ii vdo, if good dripping is used, and not ■■ I much of it, it will be found good ; and J tho addition of two tablespoonfuls of ■i e moist sugar, it may be converted .0 a common short crust for fruit pies. •erage cost, 4d. per lb. i :iUST, Lard or Plead. Inm-edients.—To every lb. of^ flour al- V fj lb. of lard or flead, }. pint of water, altspoonful of salt. Mode.—C\ea.v iho id from skin, and slice it into thin <es; rub it into the flour, add the t, and work tho whole into a smooth ite, with the abovo proportion of ■ ter; fold tho pasto over two or three ■ les, beab it well with tho rolling-pin, . 1 it out, and it will be ready for use. ■. 0 crust made from this will bo found •, ;remcly light, and may be m.ade into :es or tarts ; it may also bo very much . -iched by odiling moro flead to tho • no proportion of flour. Avcn-ce cost, per lb. ji lUST, Suet, for Pics or Paddings. 'noredtents.—To every lb. of flour al- '• ' 5or G oz. of l)ccf .suet, i*.pintof wator. ! <de. — Frco the suet from skin and Crust, good Short shreds, chop it extremely tine, and rub it well into the flour; work tho whole to a smooth paste with the abovo propor- tion of water ; roll it out, and it is ready for use. This crust is quite rich enough for ordinary purposes, but when a better one is desired, use from ^ to ^ lb. of suet to every lb. of flour. Some cooks, for rich crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a small quantity of butter. It should then be laid on the paste in small pieces, the same as for puff-crust, and will be found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. 5 oz. of suet to every lb. of flour will make a very good crust; and even ^ lb. will answer very well for children, or ■where tho crust is wanted very plain. A verage cost, 5d. per lb. CRUST, Common Short. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 oz. of butter, about i pint of boiling milk. Mode.— Crumble the butter into the flour as finely as possible, add the sugar, and work the whole up to a smooth paste with tho boiling milk. Roll it out thiu, and bake in a moderate oven. Average cost, 6d. per lb. CHUST, Very good Short for Fruit Tart.g. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low^ or ^ lb. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of sifted sugar, ^ pint of water. Mode.— Rub the butter into the flour, after having ascertained that the latter is perfectly dry ; add the sugar, and mix the whole into a stiff pasto with about ^ pint of water. Roll it out two or three times, folding the pasto over each time, and it will be ready for use. A verage cost, Is. Id. per lb. CRUST, Another good Short. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour al- low a oz. of butter, tho yolks of 2 eggg, 2 oz of sifted sugar, about .| pint of milk. Mode.—Rub the butter into the flour, add tlie sugar, and mix the whole as lightly as po.-siblo to a smooth paste, with tho yolks of tho eggs well beaton, and the milk. Tho pro])ortion of tho Iht.ter in- gredient must bo judged of by the size of tho ogg,:;; if these are largo st much will not ho ronuirod, aild more if th» eggs arc smaller. A vcrorje cost, Is. per lb.