THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 73 Cherokee candiod-peel on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven a light colour ; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over them. Cun-ants, dried cherries, sul- tanas, and citron may be used instead of candieJ-peel. Time.—20 minutes to bake. Average cost, Qd. per dozen. Sea- sonahle at any time. CHHEOKEE, or Store Sauce. ■ Ingredients.—h oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic^ 2 tablcspoonfuls of soy, 1 tablespoonf ul of walnut ketchup, 1 pint of vinegar, ^/orfe.—Boil all the ingre- dients gently for about h hour; strain the liquor, and bottle off for use. Time, — i hour. Seasoiiahle.-^'ihis sauce can be'mado at any time. CnERRIES, Dried, Cherries may be put into a slow oven and thoroughly dried before they begin to change colour; tliey should then be taken out of the oven, tied in bunches, and stored away in a dry place. In the winter, they may be cooked with sugar for dessert, the same as Normandy pip- pins. Particular care must be taken that the oven be not too hot. Another me- thod of drying cherries is to stone them, and to put them into a preserving-pan, with plenty of loaf sugar strewed amongst them. They should bo simmered till the fruit shrivels, when they should be strained from the juice. The cherries should then be placed in an oven cool enough to dry without baking them. About 5 oz. of sugar would be required foi 1 lb. of cherries, and the same syrup may bo used again to do another quan- tity of fruit. CHERRIES, MoreUo, to Preserve. Ingredients.—1o every lb. of cherries allow Ij lb. of sugar, 1 gill of water, jVof/e.~Selcct ripe cherries, pick off the 6t.alk3, and reject all that have any ble- mishes. Boil the sugar and water toge- ther for 5 minutes ; put in the chen-ies, and boil them for 10 minutes, removing the scum as it rises. Then turn the iiwit, &c., into a pan, and let it remain until the next day, when boil it all again for another 10 minutes, and, if necessary, sJ-.im well. Put the cherries into small dots, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down with oiled papers) and the tops of the jars with tissue-paper Cherry Brandy, to make brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and keep in a dry place. Time. —Altogether, 25 minutes to boil. Ave- rage cost, from 8c^. to \M. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August. CHERRIES, to Preserve in Sjrrup (very delicious). Ingredients.—4 lbs. of cherries, 3 lbs. of sugar, 1 pint of white-currant juice. Mode.—Let the cherries be as clear and as transparent as possible, and perfectly ripe ; pick olf the stalks, and remove the stones, damae^ing the fruit as little as j'ou can. Make a syrup with the above proportion of sugar, mix the cherries with it, and boil them for about 15 mi- nutes, carefully skimming them ; turn them gently into a pan, and let them remain till the next day, then drain the cherries on a sieve, and put the synip and white-currant juice into the pi"e- servingrpan again. Boil these together until the syrup is somewhat reduced and rather thick, then put in the cherries, and let them boil for about 5 minutes ; take them off the fire, skim the syrup, put the cherries into small pots or wide- mouthed bottles; pour the syrup over, and, when quite cold, tie them down carefully, so that the air is quite excluded. Time.—15 minutes to boil the cherries in the syrup ; 10 minutes to boil the syrup and cun-ant-juice; 5 minutes to boil the cherries the second time. Ave- rage cost for this quantity, 3s. 6d. Sea- sonable.—Make this in July or August. CHERRY BRANDY, to make. Ingredients.—Morello cherries, good brandy; to every lb. of cherries allow 3 oz. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Havo ready some glass bottles, which must be perfectly diy. Ascertain that the cher- ries are not too ripe and are freshly gathered, and cut off about half of the stalks. Put them into the bottles, with the above proportion of sugar to every lb. of fruit; strew this in between the cherries, and, when the bottles are nearly full, pour in sufficient brandy to reach just below the cork. A few peach or apricot kernels will add much to their flavour, or a few blanched bitter almonds. Put corks or bungs into tlie bottles, tie over tliem a piece of bladder, and storo away in a dry place. The cherries will bo fit to cat iu 2 or 3 months, and will remain good for years. They are liable