THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Id April—Plain Family Dinners for First Course.—Vermicelli soup ; brill and sbrimp sauce. Entrees. — Trican- deau of veal; lobster cutlets. Second Course.—Eoast fore-quarter of lamb; \)oiled chickens; tongue; vegetables. Third Course.—Goslings; sea-kale; plum pudding ; whipped cream ; compCte of rhubarb; cheesecakes; dessert. First Course. —Ox-tail soup; crimped salmon. Entrees.—Croquettes of chick- en ; mutton cutlets and soubise sauce. Second Course. — Roast fillet of veal; boiled bacon-cheek, garnished with sprouts; boiled capon; vegetables. Third Course.—Sea-kale; lobster salad; cabi- net pudding, ginger cream ; raspberry- jam tartlets ; rhubarb tart; macaroni; dessert. APRIL, Plain Family Dinners for. Sunday. — 1. Clear gravy soup. 2. Eoast haunch of mutton, sea-kale, pota- toes. 3. Rhubarb tart, custards in glasses. Monday.—1. Crimped skate and caper sauce. 2. Boiled knuckle of veal and rice, cold mutton, mashed potatoes. 3. Baked plum-pudding. Tuesday.—1. Vegetable soup. 2. Toad- in-the-hole, made from remains of cold mutton. 3. Stewed rhubarb and baked custard puddings. Wednesday.—1. Fried soles, anchovy sauce. 2. Boiled beef and carrots, suet dumplings. 3. Lemon pudding. Thursday.—1. Pea-soup, made with liquor that beef was boiled in. 2. Cold beef, mashed potatoes, mutton cutlets and tomato sauce. 3. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Bubble-and-squeak made with reniiains of cold beef, roast shoulder of veal stuffed, spinach and potatoes. 2. Boiled batter pudding and sweet sauce. Saturday.—1. Stewed veal with vege- tables, made of remains of cold shoulder, broiled rump-steak and oyster sauce. 2. Yeast dumplings. Sunday.—Boiled salmon and dressed cucumber, anchovy sauce. 2. Roast fore- quarter of lamb, spinach, potatoes, and mint sauce. 3. Rhubarb tart and cheese- cakes. Monday.—CnYncd salmon, made with remains of salmon, dish of boiled rice. 2. Cold lamb, rumiJ-steak and kidney pudding, potatoes. 3. Spinach and poached eggs. Tuesday—I. Scotch mutton broth with Arrowroot Biscuits pearl barley. 2. Boiled neck of mutton,,' caper sauce, suet dumplings, carrots. 3. Baked rice puddings. Wednesday.—1. Boiled mackerel and . ( melted butter and fennel sauce, jjotatoes,.' 2. Roast fillet of veal, bacon and greens.. 3. Fig pudding. Thursday.—1. Flemish soup. 2. Koasf loin of mutton, broccoli, potatoes, ve:; rolls made from remains of cold veal. '6. Boiled rhubarb pudding. Friday.—1. Irish stew or haricot for • cold mutton, minced veal. 2. Half-paj pudding. Saturday.—1. Rump-steak pie, broiled i mutton chops. 2. Baked arrowroot pud- ■ ding. APRIL, Things in Season. Fish.—Brill, carp, cockles, crabs, dory,, flounders, ling, lobsters, red and grej ) mullet, mussels, oysters, perch, prauns,-, salmon (but rather scarc« and expensive), , shad, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, tench,-, turbot, whitings. Meat.—Beef, lamb, mutton, veal. Poultry.—Chickens, ducklings, fowls,*, pigeons, pullets, rabbits. Game. —Leverets. Vegetables.—Broccoli, celery, lettuces,5 young onions, parsnips, radishes, smalL salad, sea-kale, spinach, sprouts, variousj herbs. Fruit.—Apples, nuts, pears, forced! cherries, &c. for tarts, rhubarb, dried! fruits, crystallized preserves. <'■ ARROWROOT BISCUITS, OM Drops. Ingredients.—h lb. of butter, 6 eggs, l lb. of flour. 6 oz. of arrowi-oot, A lb. ol poinded loaf sugar. Mode.—Beat tho butter to a cream ; whisk tho eggs to a strong fi'oth, add them to the butter, stir , in the flour a little at a time, and beat the mixture well. Break down all the ; lumps from the arrowroot, and add that ; with the sugar to the other ingredients. Mix all well together, drop the dough on a buttered tin, in pieces the size of a • shilling, and bake the biscuits about J hour in a slow oven. If tho whites of , the eggs are separated from the yolks, and both are beaten separately before being added to the other ingredients, tho biscuits will be much lighter. Time.— I hour. Ai^o'a/je cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient : to make from 3 to 4 dozen biscuits. Sea- ]' sonable at any tirao. r,