Ixii Philosophy of Housekeeping. 407. When all the things are washed, they should be put by in their proper places. 408. The cook should then clean up all her cooking-uteDsils, and the housemaid i should clean the knives. 409. The cook now takes out a sufificient. supply of coals to last unti the next forenoon. This concludes her work for the day. 410. About eight o'clock— THE HOUSEMAID TAKES TIP THE TKAY For tea, coffee, or whatever else the family may be in the habit of taking in the t evening. When removed, she will wash them up and put them all by in their,- places; and then THE HOUSEMAID SHOULD GO UP TO THE BEDROOMS, Taking the slop-pail with her. She should empty all slops, close the bedroom.-.i windows (in winter these must be shut by three o'clock), and, when desired, the« shutters, and draw the curtain. She should also let down the curtains of the beds, and neatly fold back the bedclothes from the bolster. In doing this, shas should first draw up and fold back the portion of sheet that comes up higher" than the rest of the clothes, then fold them all down together. She should also-' refill with clean cold water any of the water-bottles and jugs that may have beena emptied diu-ing the day. 411. Before going to bed, the housemaid should bring up all the plate to hi mistress, having counted to see if it be all right. If anything is short, .'. instant search should be made ; and, if not found, the mistress should be at one told of the missing article. | 412. The cook will look all the doors, turn off the kitchen gas, and take up tb keys. 413. We have thus given the whole day's work, dividing it as we went; but, t< make it still clearer, we will now make a division of the different departmente o | work. 'I 414. The Kitchens—&nd all the cleaning appertaining to them, and all cookin, except making toast for afternoon or evening tea, belong to the cook. 415. T/ie Bedrooms—and all work appertaining to them, with the exception o - assistance in bcdmaking, belong to the housemaid.