121 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Fish, General Directions )le to break the skin ; if it should be ossary to add a little water whilst the is cooking, it ought to be poured in itly at the side of the vessel. _ The -plate may be drawn up, to see if the be ready, which may bo known by easily separating from the bone. It uld then be immediately taken out of water, or it will become woolly. The -plate should be set crossways over kettle, to keep hot for serving, and oth laid over the fish, to prevent its ng its colour. n garnishing fish great attention is uii-ed, and plenty of parsley, horse- ish, and lemon should be used. If d parsley bo used, it must be washed picked, and thrown into fresh water, on the lard or dripping boils, thi'ow parsley into it immediately from the cr, and instantly it will be green and p, and must be taken up with a slice, en well done, and with very good 36, fish is more appreciated than ost any other dish. The liver and in some instances, should be placed the dish, in order that they may be ributed in the course of serving; but ach recipe will be appended the pro- mode of serving and garnishing. ' fish is to be fried or broiled it must dried in a nice soft cloth after it is . cleaned and washed. If for fi-ying, sh it over with egg, and sprinkle it 1 some fine crumbs of bread. If done cond time with the egg and bread, the will look so much the better. If re- •ed to bo very nice, a sheet of white ting-paper must be placed to receive ;hat it may be free from all grease ; ust also be of a beautiful colour, and he crumbs appear distinct. Butter 3 a bad colour; lard and clarified ping are most frequently used; but is the best, if the expense be no etion. The fish should be put into lard when boiling, and there should sufficiency of this to cover it. ^ben fish is broiled, it must be sea- id, floured, and laid on a very clean iron, which, when hot, sliuuld be )cd with a bit of suet, to prevent the from sticking. It must be broiled ■ a very clear fire, that it may not e smoky ; and not too near, that it not be scorched. 1 choosing fish, it is well to remember i it is possible it may be fresh, and not good. Under the head of each icxilar fish in this work, are appended Fish and Oyster Pie rules for its choice, and the months when it is in season. Nothing can be of greater consequence to a cook than to have the fish good ; as, if this important coursu in a dinner does not give satisfaction, it is rarely that the repast goes off well. FISH, General Directions for Carving. In carving fish, care should be taken to help it in perfect flakes, as, if these are broken, the beauty of the fish is lost. The carver should be acquainted, too, with the choicest parts and morsels; and to give each guest an equal share of these titbits should be his maxim. Steel knives and forks should on no account be used in helping fish, as these are liable to impart to it a very disagreeable flavour. When silver fish-carverS are considered too dear to be bought, good electro- plated ones answer very well, and are inexpensive. FISH CAKE. Ingredients.—The remains of any cold fish, 1 onion, 1 faggot of sweet herbs ; salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, equal quantities of bread - crumbs and cold potatoes, h teaspoonful of parsley, 1 egg, bread-crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the bones of the fish, which latter put, with the head and fins, into a stewpan with the water; add pepper and salt, the onion and herbs, and stew slowly for gravy about 2 hours; chop the fish fine, and mix it well with bread- crumbs and cold potatoes, adding the parsleyand seasoning; make the whole into a cake with the white of an egg, brush it over vdth egg, cover with bread- crumbs, fry of a light brown ; strain the gravy, pour it over, and stew gently for I of an hour, stirring it carefully once or twice. Serve hot, and garnish with thin slices of lemon and parsley. Time.—h an hour after the gravy is made. FISH AND OYSTEB PIE. [Cold Meat Cookery ] Ingredientx.' —Any remains of cold fisli, such as cod or haddock; 2 dozen oysters, pepper and salt to taste, bread-crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish ; ^ teaspoonful of g;rated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Mode.—Clear the fish from the bones, and put a layer of it in a pic-dish, which sprinkle with pepper and salt; then a layer of bread crumbs,