To Get the Dinner Eeady. I 237. The morning housework being completed with the drawing-room, the irvant will now TAKE UP THE LUNCHEON". • 238. The things required for this will depend upon the nature of the meal. If la or coffee is used, cups and saucers must be taken up. Cold meat must be aced on a clean dish, and plates, besides the small breakfast-plates, supplied r it. Also large knives and forks, and a carving knife and fork, tumblers and ine-glasses, and a sufficient number of articles, whatever be the kind used, ust be provided for the number of people as at breakfast: if four people, four everything. The table will be laid the same as at breakfast, only that, if .ere are but one or two ladies for luncheon, it will be sufficient to lay the cloth er half the table only. 239. While the family are at luncheon she should take her own dinner, then I^e and wash up the things. 0. After this she should take out a sufficient supply of coals for the rest of a,y ; when, all dirty work being over, she should go up and dress herself e afternoon. From this time (about two o'clock) until four she may occupy If with starching, sprinkling, and folding, or ironing, any things of her tr her mistress's that go in the week's home wash, which she can do, and herself clean and tidy at the same time to attend the hall-door during this 3ual visiting hour. We may here remark that no washing should be done general servant when it is possible to put it out. The afternoons in the that she has not got this to do she should give to needlework, making, ing, and keeping her own clothes in order. If six be the dinner-hour, at ihe will begin to— GET THE DINNER READY. 1. However, if a large joint has to be roasted, she would have to begin her .rations earlier. For example, an 8-lb. leg of mutton would take from a er before four; but if the dinner were to consist of cold meat, fried fish, loup, perhaps made the day before, if she set to work at half-past four she I have ample time for all preparations. This part of a servant's business, ver, varies so much with each day's dinner, that it is impossible to lay any exact rule to be precisely followed each day; but when a servant 8 from experience the length of time it will take her to prepare a ler of dishes of certain kinds, sho should always commence sufficiently early ow herself that length of time, and not try and cheat herself into the belie she can do it equally well in half. If a shoxilder of mutton weighing 7 lb., r soup, an apple-tart, mashed turnips and potatoes are ordered for dinner ir o'clock, she should put down the joint, then she should make the tart ing it in a cool place afterwards), then lay the cloth for dinner, then put