*^Tm DICtiOiTART OF COOltERt. ;elly, Open, with, whipped Cream pared cochineal, and the other h ilf e as pale as possible. Have ready )iild well wetted in every part; pour small quantity of the red jelly, and tliid set; when quite firm, pour on it same quantity of the pale jelly, and this set; then proceed in this manner the mould is full, always taking to let one jelly set before the other cured in, or the colours would run into the other. When turned out, jelly should have a striped appear- I, For variety, half the mould may filled at once with one of the jellies, when firm, filled up with the other: also, has a very pretty eSect, and more expeditiously prepared than n the jelly is poured in small quan- s into the mould. Blancmange and jelly, or blancmange and raspberry m, moulded in the above manner, very well. The layers of blanc- ge and jelly should be about an inch opth, and each layer should be per- ly hardened before another is added, a mould of blancmange and half a I of jelly are frequently served in same manner. A few pretty dishes be made, in this way, of jellies or omanges left from the preceding by melting ihcm separately in a jug :ed in a savicepan of boiling water, then moulding them by the foregoing etions. Tivie.— ^^ hour to make the Avera.r/e cost, with calf's-feet jelly, with gelatine and syrup, more eco- ical. iivfficient to till 1^-pint mould. onahlf. at any time. ute. — In making the jelly, use for uring a very pale sherry, or the co- will be too dark to contrast nicely the red jelly. jliY", Open, with whipped 3ream (a very pretty dish). gredients.—\^ pint of jelly, i pint ream, 1 glass of sherry, sugar to Aloae.—Make the above propor- of calt's-foet or isinglass jelly, .iring and flavouring it in any way m.ay be perferred ; soak a mould, in the centre, for about ^ hour in watov ; fill it with the jelly, and let Toain in a cooi place until perfectly then turn it out on a dish ; fill the ■e with whipped cream, flavoured sherry and sweetened with pounded r; pile this cream high in the cen- and serve. The jelly should be Jelly, to make the Stock for made of rather a dark colour, to contrast nicely with the cream. Time.—i hour. OPEIT JELLY WITH WHIPPED CBEAU. Average cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill l|-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. JELLY, Savoury, for Meat Pies. J Ingredients.—3 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 calf s-foot, 3 lbs. of knuckle of veal, poul- try trimmings (if for game pies, any game trimmings), 2 onions stuck with cloves, 2 carrots, 4 shalots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 bay-leaves ; when liked, 2 blades of mace and a little spice ; 2 slices of lean ham; rather mure than 2 quarts of w.iter. Mode-—Cut up the meat and put it into a stewpan with all the ingredients except the water ; set it over a slow fire to drawdown, and, when the gravy ceases to flow from the meat, pour in the water. Let it boil up, then carefully take away all scum from the top. C-'uver the stovv]ian closely, and let the stock simmer very gently for 4 hours: if rapidly boiled, the jelly will not be clear. When done, strain it through a fine sieve or flannel bag ; and when cold, the jelly should be quite transparent. If this is not the case, clarity it with the whites of eggs. Ti^ne.—4 hours. Ave- rage cost, for this quantity, 5*. JELLY, to make the Stock for, and to Clarify it. Ingredients. —2 calf's feet, 6 pints of water. AJode.—The stock for jellies should always be made the day before it isrei^uired for use, as the liquor has time to cool, and the fat can bo so much more easily and effectually removed when thoroughly sot. Procure 2 nice calf's feet; scald them, to take off the hair; slit them in two, remove the fat from between the claws, and wash the Ibot well in warm water ; ]ait them into a stewpan, wiih the above propcrti in of cold water, bring it gradually to boil