47 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Bread-making ' M-fectly sweet will not only injure the TOUT of the bread, but, in sultry ■ather, will often cause it to be quite uueatable ; yet either of them, if fresh and good, will materially improve its quality. To keep bread sweet and fresh, as soon as it is cold it shoiald be put into a clean earthen pan, with a cover to it: th is pan should be placed at a little dis- tance from the ground, to allow a cur- rent of air to pass underneath. Some rsons prefer keeping bread on clean oden shelves without being covered, that the crust may not soften. Stale I'l ead may be freshened by warming it through in a gentle oven. Stale pastry, cakes, &c., may also be improved by this iiiothod. The utensils required for making iroad on a moderate scale, are a knead- Hij-trough or pan, sufficiently large hat the dough may bo kneaded freely without throwing the flom* over the erlges, and also to allow for its rising; a hair sieve for straining yeast, and one or two strong spoons. Yeast must always be good of its kind, ind in a fitting state to produce ready md proper fermentation. Yeast of strong beer or ale produces more effect than that of milder kinds; and the fresher the yeast, the smaller the quan- tity will be required to raise the dough. I As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be rather quick, and the heat so regulated as to penetrate the dough without hardening the outside. The oven door should not be opened after the bread is put in until the dough is (t, or has become firm, as the cool air imitted, will have an unfavourable • flfect on it. Brick ovens are generally considered ■he best adapted for baking bread : these hould be heated with wood faggots, and •lien swept and mopped out, to cleanse •hem for the reception of the bread, on ovens are more difficult to manage, eing apt to bum the surface of the road before the middle is baked. To emedy this, a few clean bricks should ibe set at the bottom of the oven close gether, to receive tho tins of broad, many modem stoves the ovens are so uch improved that they bake admi- bly, and they can always bo brought _ the required temperature, when it is igher than is needed, by leaving the oor open for tinao. Bread, to make good Home-made BKEAD, to make good Home- made (Miss Acton's Kecipe). Ingredients.—1 quartern of flour, 1 large tablespoonful of solid brewer's yeast, or nearly 1 oz. of fresh German yeast, !!■ to 1^ pint of warm milk-and- water. Mode.—Put the flour into a large earthenware bowl or deep pan ; then, with a strong metal or wooden spoon, hollow out the middle ; but do not clear i'^ entirely away from the bottom of tho pan, as, in that case, the sponge, or leaven (as it was formerly termed) would stick to it, which it ought not to do. OOTTAGH LOAP. Next take either a large table-spoonful of brewer's yeast which has been ren- dered solid by mixing it with plenty of cold water, and letting it afterwards stand to settle for a day and night; or nearly an ounce of German yeast; put it into a large basin, and proceed to mix it, so that it shall be as smooth as cream, with I pint of warm milk-and-water, or with water only; though even a very little mUk will much improve the bread. Pour the yeast into the hole made in the flour, and stir into it as much of that which lies round it as will make a thick batter, in which there must be no lumps. Strew plenty of flour on the top, throw a thick clean cloth over, and set it where the air is warm; but do not place it upon TIN BEE AD. tho kitchen fender, for it will becomo too much heated there. Look at it from time to time: when it has been laid for nearly an hour, and when the yeast has risen and broken through the flour, so that bubbles appear in it, you will know that it is ready to be made up into dough. Then place tho pan on a strong chair, or dresser, or table, of convenient height ; pour into tho sponge llio re- mainder of tho warm milk-and-w&t<;r;