r 828 THE DICTIONARY OP COOKERY. Spinacli Soup in a bain mario, or saucepan of boiling water, and lot it sot. Watch it closely, as it sliould not boil; and, as soon as it is done, lay it in a sieve, so that all tho water may drain from it, and the green will then be ready for colouring. If made according to this recipe, the spinach-green will be found far superior to that boiled in the ordinary way. SPINACH SOUP (French Hecipe). Ingredients. — As much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a vegetable- dish, 2 quarts of very clear medium stock. Mode.—Make the cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them into the soup-tureen. This is a very elegant soup, the green of the spinach forming a pretty contrast to the brown gravy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. per quart. Seasonable from October to June, SPONGE-CAKE. Ingredients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon- ful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf sugar, and the weight of 5 in good dry flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, put them into a sauce- pan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire untO milh-%oarni, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a basin, add the grated lemon-rind mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, stir them to the flour, &c., and boat tho cake well for ^ hour. Put it into a buttered mould strewn with a little fine-sifted sugar, and balce the cake in a quick oven for 1A hour. Care must be taken that it is'put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of al- monds instead of the grated lemon-rind. Time.—\}i hour. Average cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any tim'»> SPONGE-CIKE. Sprats SPONGE-CAKE, Ingredients.—h lb. of loaf su^rar, n quite I pint of water, 5 eggs, 1 lemon, lb. of flour, ^ teaspoonful of carbonate soda. Mode.—Boil the sugar and w t together until they form a thick syiui let it cool a little, then pour it to tl eggs, which should be previously w( whisked; and after the eggs and syri are mixed together, continue be tii them for a few minutes. Grate ti lemon-rind, mix the carbonate of so< with the flour, and stir these lightl ' the other ingredients; then add lemon-juice, and, when the whole thoroughly mixed, pouritinto abutten mould, and bake in rather a quick ov( for rather more than 1 hour. The r mains of sponge or Savoy cakes answ very well for trifles, light puddings, &c and a very stale one (if not mould makes an excellent tipsy cake. Time. Rather more than 1 hoiu\ Average co. lOd. Sufficient to make 1 cake. Seaso able at any time, SPONGE-CAKES, SmalL Ingredients.—The weight of 5 eggs flour, the weight of 8 in pounded lo sugar ; flavouring to taste. Mode.—Ih the flo\ir be perfectly dry, and the sugc well pounded and sifted. Separate w: whites from the yolks of the eggs, ai.:i beat the latter up with the sugar ; th( whisk the whites until they becon rather stifle, and mix them with the yolli^ but do not stir them more than is ju necessary to mingle the ingredients wt together. Dredge in the flour by d grees, add tho flavovtring; butter tl: tins well, pour in tho batter, sift a litt sugar over the calces, and bake them rather a quick oven, but do not allc them to take too much coloar, as thr> should be rather pale. Remove the: from the tins before they get cold, at: turn them on their faces, where let the. remain until quite cold, when store tho away in a closed tin canister or wid mouthed glass bottle. Tivte.—10 to "' minutes in a quick oven. Avei-age cof\ Id, each. Seasonable at any time. SPKATS. Sprats should be cooked very frosiJ which can bo ascertained by their brigbi and sparkling eyes. Wipe them dry? fasten them in rows bv a skewer n"j(