THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 32 Beef Carving necessary. Off the outside of the joint, at its top, a thick slice should first bo cut, so as to leave the surface smooth : then thin and even slices should be cleverly carved in the direction of the line 1 to 2 ; and with each slice of the lean a delicate morsel of the fat should be served. Beef, Sirloin of. — This dish is Berved differently at various tables, some preferring it to come to table with the fillet, or, as it is usually called, the undercut, uiDpermost. The reverse way, as shown in the cut, is that most usually adopted. Still the undercut is best eaten when hot; consequently, the cai'verhim- self may raise the joint, and cut some Blices from the under side, in the direction of from 1 to 2, as the fillet is very much preferred by some eaters. The upper part of the sirloin should be cut in the direction of the line from 5 to 6, and care should be taken to carve it evenly and in thin slices. It will be found a great assistance, in carving this joint well, if the knife be first inserted just above the bone at the bottom, and run sharply along between the bone and meat, and also to divide the meat from the bone in the same way at the side of the joint; the slices will then come away more readily. Some carvers cut the upper side of the sirloin across, as shown by the line from 3 to 4 ; but this is a wasteful plan, and one not to bo recommended. With the sirloin, very finely-scraped horseradish is usually served, and a little given, when liked, to each guest. Horseradish sauce is preferable, however, for ser\dng on the plate, although tho scraped horseradish may still be used as a garnish. Beef Tongue.—Passing the knife down in tho direction of from 1 to 2, a Beef, Fricandeau of not too thin slice should be helped ; and the carving of a tongue maybe continued in this way until the best portions of tht upper side are served. The fat v/hich lies about the root can be served by turn- ing the tongue, and cutting in the direc- tion of fi-om 3 to 4. BEEF, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredierdt. —A few slices of tolerably lean cold roast or boiled beef, 3 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 wineglassful of beer, a dessert-spoonful of curry powder. Mode.—Cut up the beef into pieces about 1 inch square, put the butter into a stewpan with the onions sliced, and fry them of a light-brown colour. Add all the other ingredients, and stir gently over a brisk fire for about 1( minutes. Should this be thought too dry, more beer, or a spoonful or two of gravy or water, maybe added ; but a good curry should not be very thin. Place it in a deep dish, with an edging of dry boiled rice, in the same manner as for other curries. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Sea.nn- able in winter. BEEF, Boast FiUet of (Larded), Ingredients.— About 4 lbs. of the in- side fillet of the sirloin, 1 onion, a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, sufficient vinegar to cover th' meat, glaze, Spanish sauce (see^ki Mode.—Lard the beef with bacon, put it into a pan with suflScient vii. to cover it, with an onion sliced, parsiey, and seasoning, and let it remain in this pickle for 12 hours. Roast it before a ; nice clear fire for about 1^ hour, and, when done, glaze it. Pour some Spanish sauce round the beef, and the remainder serve in a tureen. It may be garnished^ with Spanish onions boiled and glazoul Time.—1;} hour. Average cost, exclusilM of the sauce. As. Sujjicient for 6 oral persons. SecLSonahle at any time. 11 BEEP, Fricandeau of. Ingredients.—About 3 lbs. of tfceinsid* < fillet of the sirloin (a piece of the rump may be substituted for this), pojiper ana salt to taste, 3 cloves, 2 bladfes of mace, l whole allspice, 1 pint of stock (see Stock), " or water, 1 glass of sherrj', 1 bunch oi i savoury hei-bs, 2 shalot,s, bacon. Mode. — Cut somff bacon into thin strips, and