•THE DICTlOlJARY OF COOKKR"?. 348 Turbot, Bakod Fillets of TUKBOT, Baked Fillets of. Ingredients. — Tho remains of cold turbot, lobster sauce loft from the pro- ceding day, egg, and bread-crumbs; cayenne and salt to taste ; minced pars- ley', nutmeg, lemon-juice. Mode.—After having cleared the fish from all skin and bone, divide it into square pieces of an equal size ; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sviffieicnt butter to baste with. Bake for \ hour, and do not forget to keep them well moistened with the butter. Put a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg to the cold lobster sauce ; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drained from tlic butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Time. —Altogether, h hour. Seasonable at any time. Hoie.—Cold turbot thus warmed in the remains of lobster Fauce will be found much nicer than putting the fish again in water. TURBOT A Ii'ITALIENNE, FiUets of. Ingredients. — The remains of cold tm-bot, Italian sauce. Mode. — Clear the fish carefully from the bone, and take away all skin, which gives an un- pleasant flavour to the sauce. Make the sauce hot, lay in the fish to warm through, but do not let it boil. Garnish •with croMons. Time.—5 minutes. Sea- sonahle all tho year, TURBOT, or other Large Fish, Garnish, for. Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flat tops, and on the top of each pyramid put rather more than a tablespoonful of white of egg beaten to a stiif froth. Over this, sprinkle finely-chopped parsley and fine raspings of a dark colour. Arrange these on the napkin round the fish, one green and one brown alternately, TURBOT AU GRATIN. higredieiits.—Tiomnins of cold turbot, bechamel {see Sauces), bread-crumbs, butter. Mode. —Cnt the fish of tho turbot into small dice, carefully freeing it from all skin and bona. Put them Ti^rkey, Boiled into a stewpan, and moisten with 4 or tablespoonfuls of bechamel. Let it p thoroughly hot, but do not allow it i boil. Spread tho mixture on a disi cover with finely-grated bread-cruml and place small pieces of butter o\ the top. Brown it in the oven, or wiiL salamander. Time.—Altogether, J hou; Seasonable at any time. TURKEY, Boiled. Ingredients. — Turkey ; forcemc-a Choosing and Trussing.—Hen turkeys ;i: preferable for boiling, on account of tL whiteness and tendeniess, and one ■ moderate size should be selected, as large one is not suitable for this mode cooking. They should not be drcs> until they have been killed 3 or 4 da as they will neither look white, nor v they be tender. Pluck the bird, ca fully draw, and singe it with a pi-, of white paper ; wash it inside and o . and wipe it thoroughly dry with a ch ti Cut off the head and neck, draw tl strings or sinews of the thighs, and c\ off the legs at the first joint; draw 11 legs into the body, fill the breast wit forcemeat; run a skewer through th- B0II.BD hjeket. wing and the middle joint of the lef ji quite into the leg and wing on tho oppi ij site side ; break the breastbone, an (! make the bird look as round and as con jj pact as possible. Mode.—Put the turkc ji into sufficient/iO< water to cover it; let l| come to a boil, then carefully remove a 1| the scum : if this is attended to, there Jj no occasion to boil the bird in a flourc i\ cloth ; but it should be well covered w; the water. Let it simmer very crently about hour to hour, according to : size, ami serve with cither white, celt ; oyster,or mushroom sauce, orparsley-s: butter, a little of which sliould be poi:: over the turkey. Boiled ham, bac tongue, or pickled pork, shoiJd always company this dish; and when oyster sam jj is served, tho turkey should bo stuffc.« with oyster forcemeat. Time.—A smoil turkey, hour; a largo one, lj| brn»