THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 213 Mutton, Hoast Saddle of being boned; pepper and salt to taste, Biiet crust made with milk, in the propor- tion of G oz. of suet to each pound of flour; a very small quantity of minced onion (this may be omiLted when the flavour is not liked). Mode.—Cut the meat into rather thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt; line the pudding-dish with crust; lay in the meat, and nearly, but do not quite, fill it up with water; when the flavour is liked, add a small quantity of minced onion ; cover with crust, and proceed in the same manner as directed in recipe for rump steak and kidney pudding. Time. —About 3 hours. Average cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. MUTTON, Hoast Saddle of. Ingredients.—Saddle of mutton; a little salt. Mode.—'To insure this joint being tender, let it hang for ten days or a fort- night, if the weather permits. Cut off the tail and flaps, and trim away every BASSLB OF MUTTorr, part that has not indisputable preten- sions to be eaten, and have the skin taken off and skewered on again. Put it down to a bright, clear fire, and, when the joint has been cooking for an hour, remove the skin and dredge it with flour. It should not be placed too near the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt, but kept con- stantly basted, both before and after the skin is removed. Sprinkle some salt over the joint; make a little gravy in the dripping-pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of made gravy and red-currant jelly. Time. —A saddle of mutton weighing 10 lbs., 2J hours; 14 lbs., 3;^ hours. When liked underdone, allow rather loss time. Ave- rage cost, \M. per lb. Sufficient.— A moderate-sized saddle of 10 lbs. for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year; not so good when lawb is ip full BeasoD, Mutton Soup, Good MTTTTOW, Roast Shoulder of. Ingredients. —Shoulder of mutton ; a little salt. Mode.—Put the joint down to a bright, clear fire ; flour it well, and keep continually basting. About ^ hour before serving, draw it near the fire, that BH0UI.DEB or MUTTON. the outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not sufiiciently near to blacken the fat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meai,, empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. Tivie.—A shouldei jl mutton weighing 6 or 7 lbs., 1^ hour. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Shoulder of mutton may be dressed in a variety of ways; boiled, and served with onion sauce; boned, and stuffed with a good veal forcemeat; or baked, with sliced potatoes in the dripping.^an. MUTTON SOUP, Good. Ingredients.—A neck of mutton about 5 or 6 lbs., 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; salt and pepper to taste ; a little sherry, if liked ; 3 quarts of water. Mode.—Lay the ingredients in a covered pan before the fire, and let them remain there the whole day, stirring occasionally. The next day put the whole into a stew- pan, and place it on a brisk fire. When it commences to boil, take the pan ofif the fire, and put it on one side to simmer until the meat is done. When ready for use, take out the meat, dish it up with carrots and turnips, and send it to table; strain the soup, let it cool, skim off all the fat, season and thicken it with a tablespoonful, or rather more, of arrow- root ; flavour with a little sherry, simmer for 5 minutes, and servo. Time. — 15 hours. Average cost, including the