xlvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. then, while wet, she should rub it well all over with the hearthstone, but in doing this she must be very careful to let none of the water or stone touch the grate, fender, or fire-irons. 291. She should then remove to the scullery all the tools and utensils she used for the grate and fire, and, bringing up a clean duster, she should thoroughly— DUST THE BREAKFAST PAHLOUR. 292. In doing this, she should go over every article carefully, not flapping the duster about, but vjLping the dust off with it. She should go over the backsand IcLfs of the various pieces of furniture, and should lift every small article from chimney- piece and sideboard, and dust under them. She should also dust round the cornice of the room, dust the door and the window-panes, sills, and ledges. 293. She should then rearrange the fui-niture all in its proper place, and everything being in order, .she should leave the room, shutting the door after hei-. 29i. She should then— CLEAN THE LADIES' BOOTS AND SHOES. 295. Except in the case of very stout common leather boots, which some ladie.<? use in the country in bad weather, or very old kid boots, ladies' boots must not be touched with blacking. If the soles are very muddy, they must be scraped round with an old knife, great care being taken not to touch the uppers, nor to do more to the soles than take the mud off, the leather itself must not be scraped. The mud off the uppers "hculd be removed with a sponge dipped in milk. When boots arp •".'^-.jtiially muddy, it will be sufficient to go round the edges of the soltt ..all a very soft brush, and to wipe the uppers gently with a flannel. When kid boots become old and discoloured, the " Kid Reviver" that most bootmakers sell is better to use than common blacking. It is laid on with a sponge, and left to dry, no brushing or polishing is necessary. Their morning's "dirty work" being then concluded, the servants should go to their own room, wash their face? and hands, arrange their hair, and put on clean caps and aprons. Having washed her hands, the housemaid will then go upstairs and knock at the different chamber-doors to arouse the family, supplying each room with warm water, and leaving the boots and shoes outside the doors of their wearers. Then— THE HOUSEMAID LAYS THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 200. Tlie laying of the breakfast-table will vary according to the number of the