Wash, the Hearthstone. seat upon the other, apd get all the furniture as much together and into tha middle of the room as possible. She should then, having sprinkled the carpet all over with the tea-leaves— SWEEP THE EOOM, Beginning at the door, going into all the comers; when it is swept all round, moving the fumitui-e and sweeping where that stood, and bringing all the dust to the hearthstone, where she should collect it in the dustpan and remove it. 286. She should then shut the door, and while the dust is settling sweep out the hall and down the doorsteps, using for this not the carpet-broom, but the common house-sweeping brush. She should also take out the hall mats and shake them. 287. She should then return to the breukfast-room, bringing with her the housemaid's box, well supplied with brushes, blacklead, emery paper, and leathers. The cinder-pail, a small pail of hot watei', a house flannel, a piece of hearthstone, a large coarse cloth, and paper, firewood, coals and matches to light the fire. She should theia first lay down the cloth before the fireplace to save the carpet— CLEAN THE GRATE, FENDER, AND PIEE-IRONS.] 288. She should first clear out of the grate all the remains of the fire of the day before, placing the cinders and ashes in the cinder-box. 280. Then blacklead the grate, laying on the black lead with a soft brush, rub- bing it off vigorously with a harder one, and finishing it off with a polishing brush. Then rub with a leather all the polished steel portion of the grate, which should not be touched at all with the blacklead or brushes; where any spots appear, rubbing fiist with the emery paper, and afterwards with the leather. The fender the same way; any portion that is of polished steel being cleaned with emery paper and leather. The fire-irons always with emery paper and leather only. 290. She will then— LIGHT THE FIRE, Proceeding in exactly the same manner as the cook does with the kitchen fir^ (See page xlviii.) Then— WASH THE HEARTHSTONE, Washing it very thoroughly, rinsing it quite free from all diit and blaok;