i THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 303 Sauce Allemande ^ which the fish has be»n boiled. Add the .' seasoning, herbs, and spices, and simmer .;■ gently for 10 minutes, stirring well the ..^ whole time ; strain it through a tine hair ;j sieve, put in the lemon-juice and anchovy ' sauce, and pour it over the fish. This sauce may be very much enriched by putting in a few small quenelles, or force- ; meat balls made of fish, and also glazed V onions or mushrooms. These, however, should not be added to the matelote till • it is dished. Tivie.—10 minutes. Average ^ cost, Is 6d. Seasonable at any time. J^''oie.—This sauce originally took its ; name as being similar to that which the ■ French sailor (maielot) employed as a ■ relish to the fish he caught and ate. In some cases cider and perry were substi* •^uted for the wine. The Norman mate- lotes were very celebrated. SATJC£3 ALLEMANDE, or German Sauce. Ingredients.—J pint of sauce tournSe, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Put the sauce into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle ; and after they are added to the sauce, it must be stirred without ceasing. This sauce is a general favou- rite, and is used for many made dishes. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, 6d. SAUCE ARISTOCRATIQUE (a Store Sauce). Ingredients.—Green walnuts. To every pint of juice, 1 lb. of anchovies, 1 drachm of cloves, 1 drachm of mace, 1 drachm «f Jamaica ginger bruised, 8 shalots. To every pint of the boiled liquor, h pint of vinegar, | pint of port wine, 2 table- spoonful* of soy. Mode.—FovLud the walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it, add anchovies, spices, and cloves in the above proportion. Boil all these together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again, put in the shalots (8 to every pint), and boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add vinegar, wine, and soy, in the above quantities, and bottle off for use. Cork well and seal the corks. Seasonable.— Make thifl sauce from the beginning to Sauce, Bread the middle of July, when walnuts are iu perfection for sauces and pickling. Average cost, 3s. Qd. for a quart. SAUCE, Benton (to serve with Hot or Cold Eoast Beef). Ingredients. — 1 tablespoonful of scraped horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of vino^var. Mode.'—Grate or scrape the horseradish very fine, and mix it with the other in- gredients, which must be all well blended together; serve in a tureen. With cold meat, this sauce is a very good substitute for pickles. Average cost for this quan- tity, 2d. SAUCE, Mango Chetney, Bengal Eecipe for Making. Ingredients. — 1^ lb. of moist sugar, f lb. of salt, I lb. of garlic, | lb. of onions, | lb. of powdered gingei", | lb. of dried chilies, f lb. of mustard-seed, | lb. of stoned raisins, 2 bottles of best vinegar, 30 large unripe sour apples. Mode.—The sugar must be made into syrup ; the garlic, onions, and ginger be finely pounded in a mortar ; the mustard- seed be washed in cold vinegar, and dried in the sun ; the apples be peeled, cored, and sliced, and boiled in a bottle and a half of the vinegar. When all this is done, and the apples are quite cold, put them into a large pan, and gradually mix the whole of the rest of the ingre- dients, including the remaining half- bottle of vinegar. It must be well stirred until the whole is thoroughly blended, and then put into bottles for use. Tie a piece of wet bladder over the mouths of the bottles, after they are well corked. This chetney is very superior to any which can be bought, and one trial will prove it to be delicious. Note.—This recipe was given by a native to an English lady, who had long been a resident in India, and who, since her return to her native country, has become quite celebrated amongst her friends for the excellence of this Eastern relish. SaUCE, Bread (to serve with Roast Turkey, Fowl, Game, &c). Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, f lb. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion; pounded mace, cayonno, aod salt to