1S8 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKER"?. nodge-Podge HODGE-PODGE. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. ~»About 1 lb. of underdone cold mut- ton, 2 leitucos, 1 pint of groen peas, 6 or 6 green onions, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, i teacuplul of Water. Mode.—Mince i&e mutton, and cut up the lettuces and onions in slices. Put those in a stewpan, with all the ingredients except the peas, and let these simmer very gently for ^ hour, keeping them well stirred. Boil the peas separately, mix these with the mutton, and serve very hot. Time.—^ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the end of May to August, HOLLY-LEAVES, to Frost, for Garnishing and JDecorating Des- sert and Supper Dishes. Inrjredients.—Sprigs of holly, oiled butter, coarsely-powdered sugar. Mode. —Pruuure somo nice sprigs of holly ; pick the leaves from the stalks, and wipe them with a clean cloth free Irom all moisture; then place them on a dish near the fire, to get thoroughly dry, but not too near to sljrivol the leaves ; dip them into oiled butter, sprinkle over them some coarsely-powdered sugar, and dry them before the tire. They should be kept in a dry place, as the least damp would spoil their appearance. Ttme.— About 10 minutes to dry before the fire. Seasonable.—These may be made at any time ; but are more suitable for winter garnishes, when fresh flowers are not easily obtained. HONEY CAKE. Ingredients. — h breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of rich sour cream, 2 breakfast-cujjfuls of flour, ^ tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, honey to taste. Mode.—Mix the sugar and cream together ; dredge in tho flour, with as much honey as will flavour the mixture nicely ; stir it well that all the ingredi- ents may be thoroughly mixed ; add the carbonate of soda, and beat the cake •well tor another 5 minutes ; put it into a buttered tin, bake it from A to j hour, and let it be oaten warm. Time.—^ to § hour. A venige cost, 8d. Sufficient for B or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. HOBSEBADISn. This root, scraped, is always served Hot Spico with hot roast beef, and is used for ga : Dishing many kinds of boiled fish. L« the horseradish remain in cold water U an hour; wash it well, and with a sbai knife scrape it into very thin shre- commencing from the thick end of tl < root. Arrange somo of it lightly la i lig i small glass dish, and tho remainder iif4 eW for garnishing the joint; it should b( si placed in tufts round the border of tbi dish, with 1 or 2 bunches on tho meaw ;|K Average cost, 2d. per stick. Seasonal. from October to June, HOESERADISH SAUCE, to serv" with Koast Beef. Ingredients.—4tablespoonfuls of grate horseradish, 1 teaspoonful of pound', i sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, h tea-spooi ful of pepper, 2 teaspooufuls of madi mustard ; vinegar. Mode. —Grate tili horseradish, and mix it well with tiU sugar, salt, pepper, and mustart,* moisten it with sufficient vinegar to gill it the consistency of cream, and serveiI a tureen ; 3 or 4 tablespoon! uls of crea^ added to the above very much iraprov j the appearance and Qavour of this sauce To heat it to serve with hot roast' put it in a bain marie or a jar, w place in a saucepan of boiling wal make it hot, but do not allow it to boi or it will curdle. i Note.—'L'his sauce is a j^reat improve t ment on the old-fashioned way of servin t cold-scraped horseradish with hot roaaj beef. The mixing of the cold viur with the warm gravy cools and s everything on the plate. Of coinso, cold meat, the sauce should be served t.Li|w^] HOHSERADISH VINEGAE. 1 Ingredients.—i lb. of scraped hoiW ■i.i radish, 1 oz, of minced shalot, 1 dradM t ^ of cayenne, 1 quart of vinegar. Modt.^' **i Put all tho ingredients into a bott«Jfl«i, which shake well every day for n Ion' night. When it is thoroughly ^ strain and bottle, and it will be use immediately. This will be foundif agreeable relish to cold beef, L^. ScoM able.—This vinegar should bo madoeil in October or November, as horeei-ad is then in its highest perfection. HOT SPICE (a Delicious Adjiuic f to Chops, Steaks, Gi avies, &c.) Ingredients, -3 drachms each of jpu