THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. 81 Cod, Curried wo^ixed and thoroughly hot, add the lemon jiuce, and serve. Time.— h hour. Averaje cost, 2s. 6d. ; with remams of lold fish, 5d. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March. ^Voitf.—Cod that has been'left will do for this. COD, Curried. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —2 slices of largo cod, or the remains of any cold fish ; 3 oz. of butter, 1 onion sliced, a teacupful of white stock, thick- ening of butter and flour, 1 small tea- spoonful of curry-powder, { pint of cream, salt and cayenne to taste. J/ocfe.—Flake the fish, and fry it of a nice brown colour ■with the butter and onions ; put this in a stewpan, add the stock and thickening, and simmer for 10 minutes. Stirthe curry- powder into the cream ; put it, with the seasoning, to the other ingredients ; give one boil, and serve. Time.— f hour. Aviraqe cost, with fresh fish, 3s. Svffi- dent lor 4 persons. Seosonable from November to March. COD PIE. Ingredients.—2 slices of coa ; pepper and salt to taste ; ^ a teaspoouful of grated nutmeg, 1 largo blade of pounded mace, 2 oz. of butter, k pint of stock, a paste crust {see Pastry). For sauce,— 1 tablcspoonful of stock, ^ pint of cream or milk, thickening of flour or butter, Icmon-necl chopped very fine to taste, 12 oysters. Mode.—Lay the cod in salt for 4 hours, then wash it and place it in a dish ; season, and add the butter I and stock ; cover with the crust, and b.ike for 1 hour, or rather more. Now ! make the sauce, by mixing the ingre- dients named above; give it one boil, ! and pour it into the pie by a hole made at the top of the crust, which can easily i be covered by a small piece of pastry cut 1 and baked in any fanciful shape,—such as a loaf, or otherwise. Time.—1.^ hour. A verage cost, with fresh fish, 2s. Gc£ Suf- f-cieut for G persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—The remains of cold fish may bo used for this pie. COD PIE. (Economical.) [Cold Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. Anj- remains of cold cod, 12 oysters, f illicieut melted butter to moisten it; Cod Sounds, en Poule mashed potatoes enough to fill up the dish. Mode.—Flake the fish from the bone, and carefully take away all the skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over the melted butter and oysters (or oyster sauce, if there is any left), and cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for ^ an hour, and send to table of a nice brown colour. Time.—h hour. Seasonable h'ovr November to March. COD, Salt, commonly caUed " Salt- fish." Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode. — Wash the fish, and lay it all night in water, with a | pint of vinegar. When thoroughly soaked, take it out, see that it is perfectly clean, and put it in the fish-kettle with suffi- cient cold water to cover it. Heat it gradually, but do not let it boil much, or the fish will be hard. Skim well, and when done, drain the fish, and put it on a napkin garnished with hard-boiled eggsr cut in rings. Time.—About 1 hour. Average cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient for each person, 1^ lb. Seasonable in the spring. Note.—Serve with egg sauce and par- snips. This is an especial dish on Ash Wednesday. COD SOUNDS Should be well soaked in salt and water, and thoroughly washed before dressing them. They are considered a great delicacy, and may cither be broiled, fried, or boiled ; if they are boiled, mix a little milk with the water. COD SOUNDS, en Poule. Ingredients.—For forcemeat, 12 chop- ped oysters, 3 chopped anchovies, \ lb. of bread crumbs, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace to ^asto ; 4 cod sounds. Mode.-~' Make the forcemeat by mixing the ingre- dients well together. Wash the sounds, and boil them in milk and water for ^ an hour; take them out, and let them cool. Cover each with a hvyer of foioemoat, roll them up in a nice form, ana skewer them. Rub over with lard, dredge wit> flour, and cook them gently before the. fire in a Dutch oven. Time.—?, hour. Average cost, 6d. per lb.