THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. 336 Sweetbreads, Baked SWEETBBEADS, Baked (an En- tree). Ingredienis.—3 sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, oiled butter, 3 slices of toast, brown gravy. Mode. — Choose large white sweetbreads; put them into warm water to draw out the blood, and to improve their colour ; let them remain for rather more than 1 hour; then put them into boiling water, and allow them to simmer for about 10 minutes, which BWEETBBEADS, renders them firm. Take them up, drain them, brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs; dip them in egg again, and then into more bread-crumbs. Drop on them a little oiled butter, and put the sweetbreads into a moderately-heated oven, and let them bake for nearly ^ liour. Make 3 pieces of toast; place the sweetbreads on the toast, and pour round, but not over them, a good brown gravy. TMJie.—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, baked 40 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 5s. Sufficient for an entr6e. Seasonalle.—In full season from May to August. SWEETBBEADS, Fried {h la Maitre d'Hotel), an Entree, Ingredienis.—3 sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, rather more than I pint of maltre-d'hOtel sauce. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water for an hour; then boil them for 10 minutes; cut them in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, season with popper and salt, and put them into a frying-pan, with the above proportion of butter. Keep turn- ing them until done, which will be in about 10 minutes ; dish them, and pour over them a maitre-d'hOtel sauce. 'J'ho dish may be garnished with slices of cut emon. Time.—To soak 1 hour, to bo broiled 10 minutes, to be fried about 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. to 5.?., ac- cording to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable.—In full season from May to August. J^o(e.—Tho egg and bread-crumb may bo omitted, and the slices of sweetbread dredged with a little flour instead, and a Sweetbreads, Lambs* good gravy may be substituted for that maitre-d'hOtel sauce. This is a veryr simple method of dressing them. SWEETBBEADS, Stewed (an En- tree). Ingredients.—3 sweetbreads, 1 pint of white stock, thickening of butter and: flour, C tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 table- - spoonful of lemon-juice, 1 blade of: pounded mace, white pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in. warm water for 1 hour, and boil them for- 10 minutes; take them out, put them. into cold water for a few minutes; layr them in a stewpan with the stock, and! simmer them gently for rather more than; I hour. Dish them; thicken the gravy .• with a little butter and flour ; let it boU up, add the remaining ingredients, allow > the sauce to get quite hot, but not boil,, and pour it over the sweetbreads. Tijne.. —To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 mi-- nutes, stewed rather more than h hour.. Average cost, from Is. to 5s., according; to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seaso7iable.—In full season from ilay to ' August. Note.—A few mushrooms added to this dish, and stewed with the sweetbreads, will be found an improvement. SWEETBBEADS, Lambs',larded, and Asparagus (an Entree). Ingredients.—2 or 3 sweetbreads, ^ pint of veal stock, white pepper and salt to tasto, a small bunch of green onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flour, 2 eggs, nearly h pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.— Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water, and put them into a saucepan with suf- ficient boiling water to cover them, and lot them simmer for 10 minutes; then take them out and put them into cold water. Now lard them, lay them in a stewpan, add the stock, seasoning, onions, mace, and a thickening of butter and flour, and stew gently for ^ hour or 20 minutes. Beat up the egg with the cream, to which add the minced parsley and a very little grated nutmeg. Put this to the other ingredients; stir it well till quite hot, but do not let it boil after the cream is added, or it will curdle. Have ready some asjiaragus-tops, boiled; add these to the sweetbreads, and servr Time.—Altogether ^ hour. Averagt cost.