397 A Kice Plum-Cake. MAYONAISi] OF SALMON. Ingredients.—Cold dressed salmon, 1 pint cream, 3 oz. butter, 1 lb. bread- crumbs, salt, popper, mace, 4 eggs. Mode. —Place the salmon with the butter and seasoning in a stewpan for 10 minutes. Heat the cream and steep the bread-crumbs in it for 10 minutes, add the fish and crumbs, and beat smooth in a mortar, well beat the eggs, pour into a buttered mould, and bake for 20 minutes; turn out, and garnish with cauli- llower and cray-fish. RICH WEDDIlSrG-CAKE. Ingredients—5 lb. of the finest flour, 3 lb. of fresh butter, 5 lb. of cur- rants, 2 lb. of sifted loaf-sugar, 2 nutmegs, \ oz. of mace, half \ oz. of cloves, 16 eggs, 1 lb. of sweet almonds, | lb. of candied citron, \ lb. each of candied orange and lemon peel, 1 gill of wine, 1 gill of brandy. J/orfe.—Let the flour be as fine as possible, and well dried and sifted ; the cun-ants washed, picked, and dried before the fire ; the sugar well pounded and sifted; the nutmegs grated ; the spices pounded ; the eggs thoroughly whisked, whites and yolks separately; the almonds pounded with a little orange-flower water ; and the candied peel cut in neat slices. When all these ingredients are prepared, mix them in the following manner. Begin working the butter with the hand till it becomes of a cream-like consistency; stir in the sugar, and when the whites of the egg? are whisked to a solid froth, mix them with the butter and sugar; next, well beat up the yolks for 10 minutes, and adding them to the flour, nut- megs, mace, and cloves, continue beating the whole together for ^ hour or longer^ till wanted for the oven. Then mix in lightly the currants, almonds, and candied peel with the wine and brandy ; and having lined a hoop with buttered paper, fill \t with the mixture, and bake the cake in a tolerably quick oven, taking care, however, not to burn it: to prevent this, the top of it may be covered with a sheet of paper. To ascertain whether the cake is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, withdraw it directly, and if the blade is not sticky, and looks bright, the cake is sufficiently baked. These cakes ai-e usually spread with a thick layer of almond icing, and over that another layer of sugar icing, and after- wards ornamented. In baking a large cake like this, attention must be paid to the heat of the oven; it should not be toD fierce, but have a good soaking heat. A NICE PLUM-CAKE. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fJour, ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, h, lb. of currants, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, ^ pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia or cai-bonate of soda. 3Iode.—?\xi the flour into a basin with the sugar, currants, and sliced candied peel; beat the butter to a cream, and mix all these ingredients together with the milk. Stir the ammonia into 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; add it to the dough, and