THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 274 Pudding, Half-pay rowroot, butter, and sugar. Boil these ingredients for a few minutes, keeping them well stirred ; then take them off the fire and mix with them the eggs, yolks and whites, beaten separately and added separately. Boil some sugar to candy; line a mould with this, put in the brandy, then the mixture; tie down with a cloth, and boil for rather more than 1 hour. When turned out, the brandy and sugar make a nice sauce. Time.—Rather moi'e than 1 hour. Ave- rage cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Half-Pay. Ingredients.—\ lb. of suet, \ lb. of currants, | lb. of raisins, ^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle, § pint of milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the currants, which should be nicely washed and dried, the raisins, which should be stoned, the flour, bread-crumbs, and treacle; moisten with the milk, beat up the ingredients until all are thoroughly mixed, put them into a buttered basin, and boil the pud- ding for 3^ hours. Time.—3| hours. Average cost, M. Sufficient for 5 or C persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Herodotus. Ingredients.—g lb. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of good figs,' 6 oz. of suet, 6 oz. of moist sugar, | saltspoonful of salt, 3 eggs, nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Mince the suet and figs veiy finely; add the remaining ingredients, taking care that the eggs are well whisked; beat the mixture for a few minutes, put it into a buttered mould, tie it down with a floured cloth, and boil the pudding for 5 hours. Serve with wine sauce. Time.— 5 hours. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Hunter's. Ingredients.—1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb, of suet, 1 lb. of bread- crumbs, J lb. of moist sugar, 8 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, ^ lb. of mixed candied peel, 1 glass of brandy, 10 drops of essence of lemon, 10 drops of essence of almonds, J nutmeg, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves. Mode.—Stono and Bhred the raisins rather small, chop the suet finely, and rub the bread until all lumps are well broken; pound the spice Pudding, Mansfield to powder, cut the candied peel into thin shreds, and mix all these ingredients well together, adding the sugat. Beat the eggs to a strong froth, and as they are beaten, drop into them the essence of lemon and essence of almonds; stir these to the dry ingredients, mix well, and add the brandy. Tie the pudding firmly in a. cloth, and boil it for 6 hours at the least ■ i 7 or 8 hours would be still better for it. : Serve with boiled custard, melted red-cur- i rant jelly, or brandy sauce. Time. —C to 8■ i hours. Average cost, Zs. 6d. Sufficient: : for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in winter, i i PUDDING, Manchester (to eat: ' Cold). Ingredients.—3 oz. of grated bread, h f pint of milk, a strip of lemon-peel, 4-. eggs, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, puff-paste, jam, 3 tablespoonfuls ol ■ brandy. Mode.—Flavour the milk with. •- lemon-peel, by infusing it in the milk foi - ■ ^ hour ; then strain it on to the bread- • :' crumbs, and boil it for 2 or 3 minutes;: ^ add the eggs, leaving out the whites oi i " 2, the butter, sugar, and brandy; stir al^ i these ingredients well together ; cover f pie-dish with puff-paste, and at the bet tom put a thick layer of any kind o. jam ; pour the above mixture, cold, aom?- the jam, and bake the pudding for ar r' hour. Serve cold, with a httle sitle sugar sprinkled over. Tim^.—1 hour. , Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or (I >i persons. Seasonable at any time. ~ PUDDING, Mansfield. Ingredients.—The crumb of 2 rolls, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 11 ^ tablespoonfuls of brandy, G oz. of chop- . pod suet, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, ^ lb of currants, J teaspoonful of gratoc : nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream J/orfc—Slice the roll very then, anc pour upon it a pint of boiling milk ; le' : . it remain closely covered for J hour, thei beat it up with a fork, and sweeten witl i moist sugar; stir in the chopped s:ot i flour, currants, and nutmeg. Mix i ^ ingredients well together, moisten . .i! the eggs, brandy, and cream; beat tbi mixture for 2 or 3 minutes, put it into ( buttered dish or mould, and bake in! moderate oven for 1^ hour. Turn it >nit strew sifted sugar over, and f ye Time.—li hour. Average cost, Is. o.j Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SeasoJiaU at any time. i