399 Meringues. until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiUng water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefuUy out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly; strawberries, raspberries, grapes, cherries, and currants ai-e put in raw. In winter, when fresh fruits are not obtainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with presei-ved fruits or brandy cherries ; these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly be very clear, the beauty of the dish wiU be spoiled. It may be garnished with the same fruit as is laid in the jeUy; for instance, an open jelly with strawberries might have, piled in the centre, a few of the same fi-uit prettily arranged, or a little whipped cream might be substituted for the fruit, TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marmalade that may be preferred. J/oc?e.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of about ^ inch ; butter some small round pattypans, line them with it, and cut off the superfluous paste close to the edge of the pan. Put a small piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake in a quick oven for about 10 minutes, or rather longer. When they are done, and are of a nice coloui", take the pieces of bread out carefully, and replace them by a spoonful of jam or marmalade. Dish them high on a white d'oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. MERINGUES. Ingredients.—^ lb. of pounded sugar, the whites of 4 eggs. J/ocZe.—Wbisk the whites of the eggs to a sti£f froth, and with a wooden spoon, stir in quicMi/ the pounded sugar; and have some boards put in the oven thick enough to prevent the bottom of the meringues from acquiring too much colour. Cut some strips of paper about two inches wide ; place this paper on the board, and drop a tablespoonful at a time of the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be the same size. In dropping it from the spoon, give the mixture the form of an egg, and keep the meringues about two inches apart from each other on the paper. Strew over them some sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for ^ hour. As soon as they begin to colour, remove them from the oven ; take each slip of paper by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and, with a small spoon, take out the soft part of each meringue. Spread some clean paper on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven to harden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with]whipped cream, flavoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweeten with pounded sugar. Join two of the meringues together, and pile them high in the dish. To vary their appearance, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over ; and they may be garnished with any bright-coloured preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making-