TEE DICTIONARY OP COOKEEY. 276 Pudding, Q,uickly-made to taste. Mode.—Put the peas to soak over nisht, in rain-water, and float o(f any that are worm-eaten or discoloured. Tie them loosely in a clean cloth, leaving a little room for them to swell, and put them on to boil in cold rain-water, allow- ing 2^ hours after the water has simmered up. When the peas are tender, take them up and drain ; rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon ; add the butter, eggs, pepper, and salt; beat all well together for a few minutes, until the ingredients are well incorporated; then tie them tightly in a floured cloth ; boil the pudding for another hour, turn it on to the dish, and serve very hot. This pudding should always be sent to table with boiled leg of purk, and is an exceedingly nice accompaniment to boiled beef. 2'me.—2^ hours to boil the peas, tied loosely in the cloth ; 1 hour for the pudding. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. .PUDDING, Quickly-Made. Ingredients.—^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, \ lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a little grated lemon-rind. Mode. —Make the milk hot; stir in the butter, and let it cool before the other ingre- dients are added to it; then sti-j in the sugar, flour, and eggs, which should bo well whisked, and omit the whites of 2 ; flavour with a little grated lemon-rind, and beat the mixtui-o well. Butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them ; bake from 20 minutes to ^ hour, according to the size of the puddings, and serve with fruit, custard or wine- sauce, a little of which may be poured over them. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, \s. 2d. Sufficient for 6 pud- dings. Seasonable at any time. PUDDITTGr, Somersetshire. Ingredients.—d eggs, their weight in flour, pounded sugar and butter, flavour- ing of grated lemon-rind, bitter almonds, or essence of vanilla. Mode.—Carefully weigh the various ingredients, by placing on one side of the scales the eggs, and on the other the flour ; then the sugar, and then the butter. Warm the butter, and with the hands beat it to a cream ; gradually dredge in the flour and pounded sugar, and keep stirring and beating the mixture without ceasing until it is per- fectly smooth. Then add tho eggs, which should b^w^whisked, and either Pudding, West Indian of the above flavourings that may ba preferred; butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them, and bake in a brisk oven for about i hour. Turn them out, dish them on a napkin, and serve custard or wine-sauce with them. A pretty little supper-dish may be made of these puddings cold, by cut- ting out a portion of the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity a little whipped cream or delicate preserve, such as apricot, greengage, or very bright marmalade. The paste for these puddings requires a great deal of mixing, as the more it is beaten, the better will the puddings be. \Mien served cold, they are usually called gd- teaux d la Madeleine. Time.—J hour. Average cost, IQd. Sufficient for 6 or 7 puddings. Seasonable at any time. PUDDING, Vicarage. Ingredients.—^ lb. of flour, | lb. of: chopped suet, 5 lb. of currants, | lb. of raisins, 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, h teaspoonful of ground ginger, i salt- • spoonful of salt. Mode.—Pat all the' ingredients into a basin, having pre- • viously stoned the raisins, and washed, picked, and dried the currants; mix: well with a clean knife ; dip the pudding- cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and put in the mixture. Have ready a . saucepan of boiling water, plunge in tho • pudding, and boil for 3 hours. Turn ; it out on the dish, and serve with sifted sugar. Time.— d hours. Average cost, 8d. Su^cient for 5 or 6 persons. Sea- ionable.—Suitable for a wmter pudding. PUDDING, West-Indian. Ingredients.—1 pint of cream, \ lb. of ' loaf-sugar, h lb. of Savoy or sponge- cakes, 8 eggs, 3 oz. of preserved green 1 ginger. Mode.—Crumble down the cakes, put them into a basin, and pour over them the cream, which should be pre- viously sweetened and brought to tho boiling-point; cover the basin, well beat the eggs, and when the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a mould, arrange the ginger round it, pour in the pudding carefully, and tie it down with a cloth : steam or boil it slowly for lA hour, and serve with tho syrup from the ginger, which should bo warmed, and poured over the pudding. Tniic—IJ hour. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. 8(1. Suficicnt for 5 or 6 persouSi Seasonable at any tim«.