xxxvi Philosophy of Housekeeping. will put on clean sheets, bolster and pillow cases; will fold up the counterpane over the side of the bed, and pin up the curtains as high as she can ; also pin up the valance of the bed, and spread over all a large dusting-sheet, 213. She will then remove from the room all the dressing-table apparatus, small ornamental articles, the towels and sponges, and any clothes that may hanging on pegs; she will put the soiled sheets, bolster and pillow cases, windo blind and toilet-cover into the clothes-basket, remove the fender and fire-irona and roll up and remove the strips of carpets and the hearth-rug, 214. She will then sprinkle the tea-leaves over the floor, and sweep the roo beginning at the door, going into all the corners, and bringing the dust to t' hearthstone, where she will collect it in the dustpan. 215, She will then bnish down the walls, for this purpose using the comice-brus or tying a clean duster over the sweeping-brush, and bping careful to remove an cobwebs from the cornice and ceiling. 216. She will then take the sweeping-brush and dustpan downstairs and b ' up the housemaid's box with the blacklead-brushes, &c., for cleaning the grate also a small pail and bowl, a can of hot water, a bouse-flannel and hearthstone, piece of soap, a clean small flannel, and a clean glass-cloth. 217. She will then clean the grate, fender, fire-irons, and hearthstone, in t same manner and rotation as she did those of the breakfast-parlour. 218. She will then dust the room, doing it very thoroughly, not flapping a filapping the duster about, but wiping carefully with it the dust off the fumitu window-sills and ledges, the door, and wainscot. 219. Then she will wash with warm water and soap all the china on the was stand, rinsing it afterwards with cold water and wiping it dry with the cloth ft that purpose ; then wash the water-carafe and tumbler with warm water and soa or a bit of soda, rinsing them very thoroughly afterwards with cold water, a- rubbing them dry with the glass-cloth ; then, also with warm water and soap she will wash the top of the stand if it be of marble, using for this purpo the small flannel. 220. She will then wash, also with soap and warm water and flannel, t' china handles and plates of the door. If any part of the paint is dirty, it shoul be washed, too, but very carefully, and with cold water, or the paint will injured. 221. To do this properly she will require pieces of stiff cardboard cut to Of