THE DICTIONAEY OP COOKERY. jMond cake. 'ngredients.—\ lb. of sweet almonds, z. of bitter almonds, 6 eggs, 8 table- onfuls of sifted sugar, 5 tablespoon- j of fine flour, the grated rind of mon, 3 oz. of butter. Mode.—Blanch '. pound the almonds to a paste; arate the whites from the yolks of eggs ; beat the latter, and add them ;he almonds. Stir in the sugar, flour, . lemon-rind ; add the butter, which aid be beaten to a cream ; and, when ihese ingredients are well mixed, put he whites of the eggs, which should whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a 3-mould, put in the mixture, and bake good oven from 1^ to If hour. Time. ; to hour. Average cost, 2s. Qd. onalle at any time. 3MOND CHEESECAKES. i f/redients.—| lb. of sweet almonds, 4 tier ones, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, the r of I lemon, 1 tablcspoonful of lemon- ia, 3 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Blanch B pound the almonds smoothly in a Bar, with a little rose or spring Kr; stir in the eggs, which should be Jjbeaten, and the butter, which should Itarmed ; add the grated lemon-peel •jjuico, sweeten, and stir well until •twhole is thoroughly mixed. Lino patty-pans with puff-paste, put in ttbixture, and bake for 20 minutes, or Ar less, in a quick oven. Time.—20 ■tes, or rather less. Average cost, m Sufficient for about 12 cheesecakes. AlOND PASTE, for Second- li!o\irse Dishes. tb7-edienls.—l lb. of sweet almonds, *ter ones, 1 lb. of very finely-sifted the whites of 2 eggs. Mode. ^h the almonds, and dry them •ughlyj putthem into a mortar, and pound them well, wetting them gradually with the whites of 2 eggs. When well pounded, put them into a small pre- serving-pan, add the sugar, and place the pan on a small but clear fire (a hot plate is better) ; keep stirring until the paste is dry, then take it oat of the pan, put it between two dishes, and, when cold, make it into any shape that fancy may dictate. Time.—h hour. Average cost, 2s. 8d. for the above quantity. Sufficient for 3 small dishes of pastry. Seasonaile at any time. ALMOND PUDDIlSrG-, Baked (very rich). Ingredients.—| lb. of almonds, 4 bitter ditto, 1 glass of sherry, 4 eggs, the rind and juice of ^ lemon, 3 oz. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Mode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with the water; mix these with the butter, which should be melted ; beat up the eggs, grate the lemon-rind, and strain the juice ; add these, with the cream, sugar, and wine, to the other ingredients, and stir them well together. When well mixed, put it into a pie-dish lined with puff-paste, and bake for ^ hour. To make this pudding more economically, substitute milk for the cream ; but then add rather more than 1 oz. of finely- grated bread. Time.—^ to J hour. Average cost, 3s., with cream at Is. Qd. per pint. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND PUDDINGS, Small. Ingredients.—^ lb. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, ^"ib. of butter, 4 eggs,- 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. il/od!e.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with a spoon- ful of water \ warm {he butter, mix the