THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 361 Veal, Sliouldcr of i inch thick ; rub them over with egg; [:\y a thin shoe of fat bacon over each piece of veal; brush these with the cgfT. and over this spread the forcemeat thinly ; roll up each piece tightly, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them a rich brown. Serve with mushroom sauce or brown gravj'. Tiine.—10 to 15 mi- nutes to fry the rolls. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Stuffed and Stewed Shoulder of. Ingredients. — A shoulder of veal, a few slices of ham or bacon, forcemeat, 3 carrots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, a faggot of savoury herbs, 3 blades of pounded mace, water, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Bone the joint by carefully detachin^- the meat from the blade-bone on one side, and then on the other, being particular not to pierce the skin ; then cut tho boue from the knuckle, and take it out. Fill tho ca- vity whence the bone was taken with a forcemeat, lloll and bind the veal up lightly; put it into a stewpan with tho carrots, onions, seasoning, herbs, and mace; pour in just suflicient water to cover it, and let it stew very gently for about 5 hours. Before taking it up, try if it is properly done by thrusting a larding-needlo in it: if it pencti-atcs easily, it is sufficiently cooked. Strain and skim the gravy, thicken with butter and flour, give one boil, and pour it round the meat. A few young carrots may be boiled and placed round tho dish as a garnish, and, when in season, green peas should always bo served with this dish. Time.—5 hours. Aver^rge ccd,Td. per lb. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonalle from March to October. VEAL, Stewed with Peas, Young Carrots, and Now Potatoes. Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 15 j'oung carrots, a few green onion?, 1 pint of green peas, 12 now potatoes, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of to- mato sauce, 2 tablespoonfuls of mush- room ketchup. Mode. — Dredge tho meat with flour, and roast or bake it for about ^ hour: it should acquire a nice brown colour. Put the meat into a •tewpan with tho carrots, onions, pota- Vegetable Marrow, Boiled toes, herbs, pepper, and salt; pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it, and stew gently for 2 hours. Take out the meat and herbs, put it in a deep dish, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and flavour it with lemon-juice, tomato sauce, and mushroom ketchup, in the above proportion. Have ready a pint of green peas boiled separateb/; put these with the meat, pour over it tho gravy, and servo. The dish may be garnished •with a few forcemeat balls. Tho meat, when preferred, may bo cut into chops, and floured and fried instead of being roasted ; and any part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely sa- vo\iry and good. Time. — 3 hours. Average cost, OtZ. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable, with peas, from Juno to August. VEGETABLE MARROV^T, BoUed. Ingredients. — To each h gallon of ■water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; vegetable marrows. Mode.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion ; put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until quite tender. Take them up with a slice, halve, and, should they be .?>^^^*^?^^^^g very large, quar- ^=^^^2ir^'st^^^!^f^='''?!^S^ ter them. Dish visgetable maekow them on toast, on toast. and send to tablo with them a tureen of melted butter, or, in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large vegetable mari'ows may be preserved throughout the winter by storing them in a dry place; when wanted for use, a few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as above ; but, when once begun, the mar- row must bo eaten quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Vege- table marrows are also very delicious mashed : they should bo boiled, then Grained, and mashed smoothly with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a sauce- pan, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish with a few sippets of toasted bread placed round as a garnish. Time.— Young vegetable marrows, 10 to 20 mi- nutes ; old ones, ^ to ^ hour. Average cost, in full season. Is. per dozen. <S'?6^'- cient.—Allow 1 msderate-sized marrow for each person. Seasonable in July,