858 TUB DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. rOIK OF VBAL. Veal, Minced, with Bichamel Sauce more than half tho battle in carving it. If the butcher bo negligent in this matter, he should be admonished; for there is nothing more annoying or ir- ritating to an inexperienced carver than to be obliged to turn his knife in all directions to find the exact place where it should be inserted in order to divide the bones. When the j'lintiiig is properly performed, there is little difficulty in carrying the 2<nife down in the direction ot the line 1 to 2. To each guest should be given a piece of the kidney and Jddney fat, ■which lie underneath, and are cousidered gi'eat delicacies. VEAL, Minced, with Bechamel Sauce (Cold Meat Cookery, very good). Ingredients.—The r6!aains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, A tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, "iorce- meat balls. Mode.—Cut — but do not chop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufficient to make rather more than 1 lb., weighed after being minced. Make the above propor- tion of bdchamel, by recipe ; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the whole gradually warm through. When it is at the point of simmering, dish it, and garnish with forcemeat balls and fried sippets of bread. Time, --To simmer 1 minute. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, is. 4d. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL, Minced (more economical). Ingredients. — The remains of cold roast fillet or loin of veal, rather more than 1 pint of water, 1 onion, h tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, salt and •white pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 young carrots, a faggot of Bweet herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Mode. —Take about 1 lb. of veal, and should there bo any bones, dredge them with flour, and put them into a stewpan with tUe bro ra outside, and few meat trito- Veal, Minced, and Macaroni mings; add rather more than a pint of water, the onion cut in slices, k-mon- poel, seasoning, mace, carrots, and herbs; simmer these well for rather more than 1 hour, and strain the liquor. Hub a little fiour into some butter ; add this to the gravy, set it on the fire, and, when it boils, skim well. Mince the veal finely by ctUtin^, and not chopping it; put it in the gravy ; let it get warmed through gradually ; add the lemon-juico and cream, and, when it is on the point of boiling, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread and slices of bacon rolled and toasted. Forcemeat balls may also be added. If more lemon-peel is liked than is stated above, put a little very finely minced to the veal, after it is warmed in the gravy. 2'ime. —1 hour to make the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, tid. Sea- sonable from March to October. VEAL, Minced, and Macaroni (a pretty side or corner dish). Ingredients.—| lb. of minced cold roast veal, 3 oz. of ham, 1 tablespoonful ot gravy, pepper and salt to taste, ^ tea- spoonful of gi-ated nutmeg, | lb. ot bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of macaroni, 1 or 2 eggs to bind, a small piece of butter. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold fillet of veal, trim off the brown outside, and mince the meat finely with the above proportion of ham : should the meat be very dry, add a spoonful of good gravy. Season highly with pepper and salt, add the grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, and mix these ingredients with 1 or 2 eggs well beaten, which should bind the mixture and make it like forcemeat. In the mean time, boil the macaroni in salt and water, and drain it; butter a mould, put some of the macaroni at the bottom and sides of it, in whatever form is liked; mix the remainder with the forcemeat, fill the mould up to the top, put a plate or small dish on it, and steam for ,3 hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with good gravy poured round, but not over, the meat. I'ime.—h hour. Aveinge cost, exclusive of the'cold meat, lOd. Sea' soiiable from March to October. Note.—To make a variety, boil some carrots and turnips separately in a little salt and water; when done, cut them into pieces about ^ inch in thickness; butter an oval mould, and place these in it, in whit© and i-ed stripes altomat»ly