THE DICTtONAUY OIF COOKESt. 285 Bavigotte, a French. Salad Sauce sugar, tlio white of 4 oggs. Mode.— Blanch, skin, and dry the almonds, and pound them in a mortar with the white of an egg; stir in the sugar, and gradu- ally add the remaining whites of eggs, taking care that they are veiy thoroughly whisked. Drop the mixture, through a small biscuit syringe, on to cartridge- paper, and bake the cakes from 10 to 12 minutes in rather a quick oven. A very small quantity should be dropped on the paper to form one cake, as the mix- tm-e spreads; when baked, the ratifias should be about the size of a large but- ton. Time.—10 to 12 minutes.—Average cost, Is. %d, per lb. EAVIGOTTE, aFrencli SaladSatice (Mona. Ude's Becipe). Ingredients.— 1 teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of cavice, 1 teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, 1 teaspoon- ful of Reading sauce, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; salt and pepper to taste. Mode. —Scald the parsley, mince the leaves very fine, and add to it all the other in- gredients; after mixing the whole together thoroughly, the sauce will be ready for use. Average cost, for this quantity, lOd. Seasonable at any time. BEMOUIiADE, or Frencli Salad- Dressing. Ingredients.—4 eggs, ^ tablespoonful of made mustard, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon or plain vine- gar. Mode.—BoiX 3 eggs quite hard for about \ hour, put them into cold water, and let them remain in it for a few minutes; strip off the shells, put the yolks in a mortar, and pound them very smoothly ; add to them, very gradually, the mustard, seasoning, and vinegar, keeping all well stirred and rubbed down with the back of a wooden spoon. Put in the oil drop by drop, and when this is thoroughly mixed with the other in- gredients, add the yolk of a raw egg, .Tjid stir well, when it will bo ready for use. This sauce should not be curdled ; and to prevent this, the only way is to mix a little of everything at a time, and iiot to cease stirring. The quantities of oil and vinegar may bo increased or diminished according to taste, as many Kliubarb and Orange Jam persons would prefer a smaller propor- tion of the former ingredient. Green Remoulade is made by using tarragon vinegar instead of plain, and colouring with a little parsley-juice. Harvey's sauce, or Chili vinegar, may be added at pleasure. Time.—\ hour to boil the eggs. Average cost, for this quantity, Id. Suljicient for a salad made for 4 or 6 persons. BHUBABB JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of rhubarb allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the rind of § lemon. Mode.—Wipe the rhubarb per" fectly dry, take off the string or peel, and weigh it; put it into a preserving- pan, with sugar in the above proportion ; mince the lemon-rind very finely, add it to the other ingredients, and place the preserving-pan by tho side of the fire ; keep stirring to prevent the rhubarb from burning, and when the sugar is well dissolved, put the pan more over the fire, and let the jam boil until it is done, taking care to keep it well skimmed and stirred with a wooden or silver spoon. Pour it into pots, and cover down with oiled and egged papers. Time.—If the rhubarb is young and tender, | hour, reckoning from the time it simmers equally; old rhubarb, 1| to 1^ hour. Average cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—About 1 pint of sliced rhu- barb to fill a lb. pot. Seasonable trom February to May. BHUBABB AND OBAWGE JAM, to resemble Scotch Marmalade. Ingredients.—! quart of finely-cut rhu- barb, 6 oranges, 1^, lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Peel the oranges ; remove as much of the white pith as possible, divide them, and take out tho pips; slice the pulp into a preserving-pan, add the rind of half the oranges cut into thin strips, and the loaf sugar, which should be broken small. Peel the rhubarb, cut it into thin pieces, put it to the oranges, and stir altogether over a gentle fire until the jam is done. Remove all tho scum as it rises, put the preserve into pots, and, when cold, cover down. Should tho rhubarb be very old, stew it alone for ,-J hour before tho other ingredients are added. Time. — '^ to 1 hour. Average cost, from Gd. to M. per lb. pot. Seasonable from Fobruai'v to May.