THE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 211 Mutton, Boast Loia of shank-borie ; put it dowu to a brisk clear fire, dredge with flour, and keep con- tinually basting the whole time it is cookiug. About 20 minutes before serving, draw it near tlio fire to get nicely brown ; sprinkle over it a little salt, dish the meat, pour off the dripping, add some boiling water slightly salted, strain it over the joint, and serve. Time. —A leg of mutton weighing 10 lbs., about 2+ or 2^ hours ; one of 7 lbs., about 2 houi-s, or rather less. Average cost, 8r,d. per lb. Sufficient.—A mode- rate-sized leg of mutton sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time, but not so good ia June, July, and August. MUTTOTT, Hoast lioin of. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, a little salt. Mode.—Cut and trim off the super- fluous fat, and see that the butcher joints tour OF MUTTOK. the meat properly, as thereby much annoyance is saved to the carver, when it comes to table. Have ready a nice clear fire (it need not be a very wide large one), put down the meat, dredge with Qour, and baste well until it is done. Make the gravy as for roast log of mut- ton, and serve very hot. Time.—A loin of mutton weighing 6 lbs., 1.^ hoiu-, or rather li>n(,'er. Average cost, per lb. Sujficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, BoUed Jjoin of (very Excellent). Ingredients.—Ahont 6 lbs. of a loin of mutton, h teaspoonful of pepper, .f tea- spoonful of pounded allspice, ^ teaspoon- ful of mace, ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg, 6 cloves, forcemeat, 1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Hang tho mutton till tender, bone it, and sprinkle over it pepper, mace, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg in the above proportion, all of which must bo Sounded very fine. Let it remain for a ayi then make a forcemeat, cover the Mutton, Bagout of cold Neck of meat with it, and roll and bind it up firmly. Half bake it in a slow oven, let it grow cold, take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, put it in the gravy, and stew it till per- fectly tender. Now take out the meat, unbind it, add to the gravy wine and ketchup as above, give one boil, and pour over the meat. Serve with red- currant jelly ; and, if obtainable, a few mushrooms stewed for a few minutes in the gravy, will be found a great improve- ment. Time.—Ih hour to bake the meat, 1^ hour to stew gently. Average cost, 4s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This joint will be found very nice if rolled and stufied, as here directed, and plainly roasted. It should be well basted, and served with a good gravy and currant jelly. MUTTOK", Boiled Ueck'of. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of the middle, or best end of the neck of mutton ; a little wait. Mode.—Trim off a portion of the fat, should there be too much, and if it is to look particularly nice, the chine- bone should bo sawn down, the ribs stripped half-way down, and the ends of the bones chopped off; this is, however, not necessary. Put the meat into suffi- cient boiling water to cover it; when it boils, add a little salt and remove all the scum. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the water get so cool tliat the finger may be borne in it; then sim- mer very slotvlij and gently until the meat is done, which will be in about \ h hour, or rather more, reckoning from the time that it begins to simmer. Serve with turnips and caper sauce, and pour a little of it over the meat. The turnii'S should be boiled with the mutton ; and when at hand, a few carrots will also be found an improvement. These, however, if very large and thick, must be cut into long thinnish pieces, or they will not be sdfli- ciently done by the time the mutton is ready. Garnish the dish with carrots and turnips, placed alternately round the mutton. Time.—4 lbs. of .the neck of mutton, about \\ hour. Average cost, 8.^d per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. MUTTON, Bagout of Cold Neck of. rcoLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. —The remains of a cold neck or loin oi