65 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Carrot J am tho fish, clean it nicely, and, if very I large, divide it; lay it in tbe stewpan, after having rubbed a little salt on it, and j-int in suiiicient stock to cover it; add tho herbs, onions and spices, and stow Ipently for 1 hour, or rather ir.oro, should lit bo very large. Dish up the fish with If^rcat cai'e, strain the licjuor, and add to lit the port wine, lemon-juice, and ca- lyonne ; give one boil, pour it over the liish, and serve. Time, 1^ hour. Aver- Kiffe cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable llrom March to October. Sufficient for 1 lor 2 persons. Note. —This fish can be boiled plain, and served with parsley and butter. Chub and Char may be cooked in the same aanner as the above, as also Dace and loach, i»3ABR0T JAM, to Imitate Apricot Preserve. Ingredients.—Carrots; to every lb. of barrot pulp allow 1 lb. of poiuided sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the strained luice of 2, 6 chopped bitter almonds, 2 lablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Select f'oung carrots; wash and scrape them blean, cut them into round pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient vater to cover them, and let them sim- mer, until perfectly soft; then beat them Ihrough a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and \o every lb. allow the above ingredients. ut tho pulp into a preserving-pan with Iho sugar, and let this boil for 5 minutes, Itirring and skimming all tho time. When |old, add the lemon-rind and juice, al- londs and brandy ; mix these well with [he jam ; then put it into pots, which pust be well covered and kept in a dry llaco. The brandy may be omitted, but foe preserve will then not keep: with liobr.').ndy it will remain good for months. Time.—About »^ hour to boil the carrots ; J miinites to simmer the pulp. A verar/e hst, Is. 2d. for 1 lb. of pulp, with the Rhcr ingredients in proportion. Suffi- fenl to fill 3 pots. Scasonnl/c from July December. «'*.\R:10T PUDDIKO, Baked or Boiled. I.ifli-cd!cnJn.~\ lb. of bread cninib.=!, 4 7.. suet, j lb. of stoned r.iisius, ;J lb. of .wot, \ lb. of curr.ants, 3 oz. of sugar, i-.vs, milk, }y nntmrg. J/o,/.'. —TjMl lio c.arr.<t.-5, uiuil tc.n lcr enough lo tms'i I) a pu;j«; rai l the rcT.ainirg i.i,vrp- Carrot3, Boiled dients, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. If to be boiled, put the mixture into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 2}, hours: if to bo baked, put it into a pie-dish, and bake for nearly an hour; turn it out of tiio dish, strew sifted sugar over it, and servo. Time.—2^ hours to boil; I bour to bake. A veraye cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Seasonable from Sep- tember to March. CABROT SOUP. Ingredients. — 4 quarts of liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, a few beef-bones, G large carrots, 2 lai'go onions, 1 turnip ; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste; cayenne. Alode.—Put the liquor, bones, onions, turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and simmer for 3 hours. Scrape and cut the carrots thin, strain the sonp on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which should be of the consistency of pea-soup. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and make this soup the day before it is wanted. Time.—4.^ hours. Average cost, per quart, l^d. Seasonable from October to March. Sufficient for 8 persons. CARROT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, 2 quarts of stock or gravy soup. J/ot^c —Scrape and cut out all specks from tho carrots, wash, and wipe them dry, and then reduce them into quarter* inch slices. Put the butter into a largo stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning. Add to them the soup, and allow them to simmer till tender,—.say for nearly an hour. Press them through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and caycnnt* if required. Boil tho whole gently for 5 mituitcs, skim well, and serve as hot as possible. Time ]j hour. Average cost, per quart. Is. Id. CARROTS, Boiled. Tngrcdtents.—To each }j g\llon of w.ator, allow one licapt^d tablos|M)onrnl of salt; carrots. Mode.—Cut o'V fni- gro.-u ♦"PN