^ THE DICTIONARY OF COOKER"?. 243 Pheasant Cutlets of the lines from 2 to 1: those are the prime pieces. If there be more guests to satisfy than these slices will serve, then let the legs and wings be disen- gaged in the same manner as described BOAST PHBASANT. in carving boiled fowl, the point where the wing joins the neckbone being care- fully found. The meri-ythought will come off in the same way as that of a fowl. The most valued parts are the same as those which are most considered in a fowl. PHEASANT CUTLETS. Ingredients.—2 or 3 pheasants, egg and bread crumbs, cayenne and salt to taste, brown gravy. Mode.—Procure 3 young pheasants that have been hung a few days; pluck, draw, and wipe them inside; cut them into joints ; remove the bones from the best of these; and the backbones, trimmings, &c., put into a stew),ian, with a little stock, herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c., to make the gravy. Flatten and trim the cutlets of a good shape, egg and bread-crumb them, broil them over a clear fire, pile them high in the dish, and pour under them the gravy made from the bones, which should be strained, flavoured, and thickened. One of the small bones shoidd be stuck on the point of each cutlet. TLv^e.—10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 3.?. each. Sufficient for 2 entriSos. Seasonable <rom the 1st of October to the beginm-ug of February. PHEASANT, Boast. Ingredients.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Choosing o.nd trussing.—Old pheasants may bo'known oy the length and sharp- BOASI FHBASAiri. ness of their spurs ; in young ones they are short and blunt. The cock bird is l^enerally reckoned tho best, except Pheasant Soup when the hen is with egg. They sho hang some time before tbey are dressj as, if they are cooked fresh, the f!' will be exceedingly dry and tastelo- After the bird is plucked and draw wipe the inside with a damp cloth, ai truss it in the same manner as partri'i If the head is left on, as shown in tt engi-aving, bring it round under t! wing, and fix it on to the point of 1! skewer. Mode.—Roast it befoi-e a br! fire, keep it well basted, and flour ai froth it nicely. Serve with brown grav; a little of which should be poured rour the bird, and a tureen of bread sauc 2 or 3 of the pheasant's best tail-feathe are sometimes stuck in the tail as £ ornament; but the fashion is not muc to be commended. Time,—A to 1 hou according to the size. Average cot 25. &d. to 3is. each. Sufficient,—1 for dish. Seasonable from the 1st of Octob( to the beginning of February. If' PHEASANT. Hoast, BriUat S^i ; varin's Eecipe (ii la Saint Alliance). WhoD the pheasant is in good cond tion to be cooked, it should be pluckec and not before. The bird should the be stuffed in the following manner :- -f-" Take two snipes, and draw them, piittiu the bodies on one plate, and the liver. &c., on another. Take off the Hesh, an mince it finely with a little beef, lard, few truffles, pepper and salt to taste, an stuff the pheasant carefully with thi; Cut a slice of bread, larger considerabl than the bird, and cover it with the live &c., and a few truffles: an ancho-vy a:^ a little fresh tuttcr added to these " ; do no harm. Put the bread, &c., int the dripping-pan, and, when the bird : roasted, place it on the preparation, an , •■ surround it with Florida oranges. Do not be uneasy, Savariu adds, abov your dinner; for a ] iheasant served i ' this way is fit for beings better tli; men. The pheasant itself is a ver\- goi bird ; and, imbibing the dressing an the flavour of the trufHo and snipe, i becomes thrice better. PHEASANT SOUP. Ingredients.—2 pheaoants, J lb. of Iw* ter, 2 slices of ham, 2 largo onions slice A head of celery, the crumb of t^\ French rolls, the yolks of 2 eggs boik bard, salt and cayenuo to taste, a littt