385 Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed. minutes, strain it, and add the wine and mushrooms. Place the sliced head and tongue in this, and let it warm gently for 10 minutes. Serve with the brain, frittei-s, bacon, and forcemeat balls round; strew egg-balls over the whole. BOAST HIND LOIN OF POBK. Ingredients.—Pork, a little salt. Mode.—Score the skin in strips rather more than ^ inch apart, and place the joint at a good distance from the fire, on account of the crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over with a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. Pork should be very thoroughly cooked, but not dry ; and be careful never to send it to table the least underdone, as nothing is more unwholesome and disagreeable than undressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce, and a little gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish: this method is better than putting it in the meat, as many persons object to the flavom-. EOAST SPAKE-BIB OF POBK. Ingredlexts.—Pork, a little powdered sage. Mode.—Aa this joint frequently comes to table hard and dry, particular caro should be taken that it is well basted. Put it down to a bright fire, and flour it. About 10 minutes before taking it up, sprinkle over some powdered sage ; make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, strain it over the meat, and serve with a tureen of apple sauce. This joint will be done in far less time when the skin is left on ; consequently, should have attention that it be not dried up. BOILED LEG OF POBK. Ingredients.—Leg of pork, salted. iVode.—U the pork be purchased ready salted, ascertam how long the meat I as been in pickle, and cook accordingly. Place it in a boiling-pot with sufficient cold water to cover it; let it come gradually to a boil, removing the scum as it rises. Simmer gently until tender, and do not allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle will fall to pieces before tho middle of the leg is done. Garnish with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and with parsley. SHOULDEB OF LAMB STUFFED. INGREDIENTS.-Shculder of lamb, forcemeat, trimmings of veal or beef 2 or.ions, ^ head of celery, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a few slices of fat bacon 1 quart of stock. ' Mode.-TaU the blade-bone out of a shoulder of lamb, fill up its place with forcemeat, and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan, with a few .hoes of bacon under and over the lamb, and add the remaining in^ro 13