THE DICTIONARY OP COOKEET 224 Orange Creams 1 oz. of isinglass will bo found sufficient for the above proportion of ingrerUonts. Time.—10 minutes to boil the juice and water. Average cost, with the best isin- glass, 3a. Sxiffident to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May, ORANGE CREAMS. Ingredients.—1 Seville orange, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, I lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream. Mode.—Boil the rind of the Seville orange until tender, and beat it in a mortar to a pulp; add to it the brandy, the strained juice of the orange, and the sugar, and beat all together for about 10 minutes, adding the well-beaten yolks of eggs. Bring the cream to the boiling- point, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients, and beat the mixture till nearly cold ; put it into custard-cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, where let them remain till quite cold. Take the cups out of the water, wipe them, and garnish the tops of the creams with candied orange-peel or pre- served chips. Time.—Altogether, \ hour. Average cost, with cream at \s. per pint. Is. id. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 creams. Seasonable from November to May. Note.—To render this dish more eco- nomical, substitute milk for the cream, but add a small pinch of isinglass to make the creams firm. ORANGE FRITTERS. Ingredients.—For the batter, .J lb. of flour, i oz. of butter, h saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, oranges, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode.—Make a nice light batter with the above proportion of flour, butter, salt, eggs, and sufficient milk to make it the proper consistency; peel the oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible, and divide each orange into eight pieces, without break- ing tho thin skin, unless it be to remove the pips; dip each piece of orange in the batter. Have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; drop in tho oranges, and fry them a delicate brown from 8 to 10 minutes. When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to drain away tho greasy moist- ure, and dish them ou a white d'oyloy ; spriuklo over them plenty of pounded sugar, and serve quickly. Ttwie.—8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 5 minutes Orange Jelly to drain them. Avtrage cost, M. Svf. ficient for 4 or 5 perwons, SeatonabU from November to May. ORANGE GRAVY, for Wildfowl,, Widgeon, Teal, &c. Ingredients.—}, pint of white stock, 1 small onion, 8 or 4 strips of lemon or - orange peel, a few leaves of basil, if at hand, the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Put the onion, cut in slices, into a stewpan with the stock, orange-peel, and basil, and let them simmer very gently for \ hour or rather longer, should the gravy not taste sufficiently of the pcd. Strain it off, and add to the gra^y the remaining ingredients ; let the wi o\e heat through, and, when on the point of boiling, serve very hot in a tureen which should have a cover to it. Tme.—Altogether \ hour. Sufficient for a small tureen. ORANGE JELLY. Ingredients.—1 pint of water, li to 2 oz. of isinglass, h lb. of loaf suerar, 1 Seville orange, 1 lemon, about 9 Chioa oranges. Mode.—Put tho water into a saucepan, with the isinglass, sugar, and the rind of 1 orange, and the same of ^ lemon, and stir these over tho fire until OPBir MOULD, the isinglass is dissolved, and remove the scum ; then add to this the juice of the Seville orange, the juice of the lemon, and suflicient juice of China oranges to make in all 1 pint: from S W 10 oranges will yield the desired qviati" tity. Stir all together over the fire until it is just on the point of boiling; skim well; thon strain the jelly through a very fine sieve or jclly-bag, and wlion nearly cold, put it into a mould j^ro- viously wetted, and, when quite set, turn it out ou a dish, and garnish it to taste. To insure this jelly being clear,