337 THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. Sweetbreads, another way to Dress 2s. Gd. to 3.?. 6d. each. Su^cient.—d iweetbreads for 1 entree. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. SWEETBREADS, another Way to Dress (an Entr6e). Ingredients. — Sweetbreads, egg and bread-crumbs, ^ pint of gravy, h glass of sherry. 3Iode.—Soak the sweetbreads in water for an hour, and throw them into boiling water to render them firm. Let them stew gently for about ^ hour, take them out and put them into a cloth to drain all the water from them. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle them with bread-crumbs, and either brown them in the oven or before the fire. Have ready the above quantity of gravy, to which add ^ glass of sherry; dish the sweet- breads, pour the gravy under them, and garnish with water-cresses. Time. — Rather more than h hour. Average cost, 2s. M. to 3s. Gd' each. Sufficient—t sweetbreads for 1 entree. Seasonalle, from Easter to Michaelmas. SYLLABUB. Ingredients.—1 pint of sherry or white wine, ^ grated nutmeg, sugar to taste, 1^ pint of milk. Mode.—Put the wine into a bowl, with the grated nutmeg and plenty of pounded sugar, and milk into it the above proportion of milk from the cow. Clouted cream may bo laid on the top, with pounded cinnamon or nutmeg and sugar; and a little brandy may be added to the wine before the milk is put in. In some counties, cider is substi- tuted for the wine: when this is used, brandy must always be added. Warm milk may be poured on from a spouted jug or teapot; but it must bo held very high. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. SYLLABUBS, Whipped. Ingredients. — h pint of cream, \ pint of sherry, half that quantity of brandy, the juice of ^ lemon, a little grated nutmeg, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, whipped cream the same as for trifle. Mode.—Mix all tho ingredients ogethcr, put the syllabub into glasses, and over the top of them heap a little whipped cream, made in the same manner as for trifle. Solid syllabub is made by whisking or milling the mixture to a stiff troth, and putting it ic the glasses, with- Tartlets out the whipped cream at the top. Average cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient to lill 8 or 9 glasses. Seasonable at any time. SYRUP for Jellies, to Clarify. Ingredients.—To every quart of water allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; the white ot 1 egg. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and, when the sugar is dissolved, add the white of the egg, whipped up with a little water. Whisk the whole well together, and simmer very gently until it has thi'own up all the scum. Take this off as it rises, strain the syrup through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, and keep it for use. TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients.—3 oz. of tapioca, 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, 4 eggs, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-rind, or bitter almonds. Mode. —Wash the tapioca, and let it stew gently in the milk by the side of the fire for ^ hour, occasionally stirring it; then let it cool a little ; mix with it the butter, sugar, and eggs, which should bo well beaten, and flavour with either ot the above ingredients, putting in about 12 drops of the essence of almonds or vanilla, whichever is preferred. Butter a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff- paste ; put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. If the pud- ding is boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it in a buttered basin 1^ hour. Time.—1 hour to bake, Ih hour to boil. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. TAPIOCA SOUP. Ingredients.—5 oz. of tapioca, 2 quarts of stock. Mode.—Put the tapioca into cold stock, and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer gently till tender, and serve. Time. —Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Season- able all tho year. Sufficient for 8 persons. TARTLETS. Ingredients.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marmalade that may be pre- ferred. Mode.—Roll out the paste to the thickness of about ^ inch; butter some small round patty-pans, line them with it, aad cut off the superfluousj)asta