THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 296 Hump- or Beef-steak, Stewed KUMP- or BEEF-STEAK, Stewed (an Entr6o). Ingredients.—About 2 lbs. of beef or rump steak, 3 onions, 2 turnips, 3 car- rots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, \ pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, h do. of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 tablespoon- ful of ilour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut tolerably thick and rather lean; divide them into convenient-sized pieces, nnd fry them in the butter a nice brtxsvn on both sides. Cleanso and pare the vegetables, cut the onions and carrots into thin slices, and the turnips into dice, and fry these in the same fat that the steaks were done in. Put all into a saucepan, add ^ pint of water, or rather more should it be necessary, and simmer very gently for 2.^ or 3 hours; when nearly done, skim well, add salt, pepper, and ketchup in the above proportions, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed with 2 of cold water. Let it boil up for a minute or two after the thickening is added, and serve. When a vegetable-scoop is at hand, use it to cut the vegetables in fanciful shapes; and tomato, Harvey's sauce, or walnut- liquor may be used to flavour the gravy. It is less rich if stewed the previous day, so that the fat may be taken off when cold ; vfhen wanted for table, it will merely require warming through. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. BUSKS, to make (Siiffolk Becipe). Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 2 oz. of butter, ^ pint of milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon- ful of yeast. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan, and keep shaking it round until the latter is melted. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, mix theso well together, aud beat the eggs. Stir them with the yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover a cloth over the basin, and leave the dough to rise by the side of the firo ; then knead it, and di- vide it into 12 pieces ; place them in a brisk oven, and bake for about 20 mi- nutes. Tttk" +Jio rusks out, break them Sago Pudding BUSES. in half, and then set them in the oven to get crisp on the other side. When. cold, they should bo put into tin ca-.- nisters to keep them dry; and if in- tended for tho cheese course, the sifted sugar should bo omitted. Time.—20 mi- nutes to bake tho rusks ; 5 minutes to render them crisp after being divided. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient to make 2. dozen rusks. Seasonable at any time. BUSKS, Italian. A stale Savoy or lemon cake may be: converted into very good rusks in the following manner. Cut the cake into slices, divide each slice in two ; put them, on a baking-sheet, in a slow oven, and. when they are of a nice brown and quite;- hard, they are done. They should be«l k kept in a closed tin canister in a dryj place, to preserve their crispness. SAG-E-AND-ONION STUFFING;, for Geese, Ducks, and Pork. Ingredients.—4 large onions, 10 sage-' leaves, ^ lb. of bread crumbs, 1^ oz. off butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. • Mode.—Peel the onions, put them into boiling water, let them simmer for 5 mi- nutes or rather longer, and just before they are taken out, put in the sage- leaves for a minute or two to take o:; their rawness. Chop both these very fine, add the bread, seasoning, and butter, and work the whole together with the yolk of an egg, when the stuf- fing will be ready for use. It should b rather highly seasoned, and tho sage- leaves should be very finely chopped. Many cooks do not parboil the onions in the manner just stated, but mcrcV.- uso them raw. Tho stuffing then, l o.vcvei . is not nearly so mild, an 1. t ) mar. tastes, its strong flavour would be very objectionable. When made for goose, .| a portion of tho liver of the bird, sim- mered for a few minutes and very finelv minced, is frequently added to this stut- fing ; and whero economy is studied, th**) egg may bo dispensed with. Time.— Rather more than 5 minutes to simmer tho onions. A rcrage cost, for this r/r ;i- tity, 4d. Sufficient for 1 goose, or a ; r of ducks. SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients.—\h pint of milk, S t^^bJa*- spoonfuls of sago', tho rind of k lemon,