371 THE DICTIONAny OF COOKEEY. Yeast-Dumplings of good yeast, 3 eggs, f lb. of cnrrants, Alb. of white moistsu>rar, 2 oz. of candied jiecl. J/u(/e.—Put the milk and butter into a saiicejian, and shako it round over ft tiro until the butter is melted, but do not allow the milk to get very hot. Put the flour into a basin, stir to it the milk and butter, the yeast and eggs, which should be well beaten, and form the whole into a smooth dough. Let it stand in a warm place, covered with a cloth, to rise, and, when sufficiently risen, add the currants, sugar, and candied peel cut into thin slices. When all the ingredients are thoro\ighly mixed, line 2 moderate- sized cake-tins with buttered paper, which should be about six inches higher than the tin ; pour in the mixture, let it stand to rise again for another h hour, and then bake the cakes in a brisk oven for about 1.^ hour. If the tops of them become too brown, cover thera with paper until they are done through. A few drops of essence of lemon, or a little grated nutmeg, may be added when the flavour is liked. Time.—From 1| to 1| hour. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. ilSeasonable at any time. YEAST-DTJMPLINGS. Ingredients. — \ quartern of dough, boiling water. Mode.—Make a very litrht dough as for bread, using to mix it, milk, instead of water; divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; plunge them into boiling water, and boil them for 20 minutes. Serve the instant they are taken up, as they spoil directly, by falling and be- coming heavy ; and in eating them do not touch them with a knife, but tear them apart with two forks. They may bo eaten with meat gravy, or cold butter and sugar; and if not convenient to make the dough at home, a little from the baker's answers as well, only it must be placed for a few minutes near the fire, in a basin with a cloth over it, to let it rise again before it is made into dumplings. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, 4d. Snfficierd for 5 or '^^ persons. Seasonable at any time. Yeast, Kirkleatham YEAST, to Make, for Bread. Ingredients.—Ih oz. of hops, 3 quarts of water, 1 lb. of bruised malt, h pint of yeast. Mode. — Boil the hops in the water for 20 minutes; let it stand for about 5 minutes, then add it to 1 lb. of bruised malt prepared as for brewing. Let the mixture stand covered till about lukewarm ; then put in not quite 5 pint of yeast; keep it warm, and let it work 3 or 4 hours ; then put it into small pint bottles (ginger-beer bottles are the best for the purpose), cork them well, and tie them down. The yeast is now ready for use ; it will keep good for a few weeks, and 1 bottle will bo found sufficient for 18 lbs. of flour. When re- quired for use, boil 3 lbs. of potatoes without salt, mash them in the same water in which they were boiled, ard rub them through a colander. Stir in about i lb. of flour; then put in the yeast, pour it in the middle of the flour, and let it stand warm on the hearth all night, and in the morning let it be quite warm when it is kneaded. The bottles of yeast require very careful opening, as it is generally exceedingly ripe. Time.— 20 minutes to boil the hops and wator, the yeast to work 3 or 4 hours. Suffi- cient.—^ pint sufficient for 18 lbs. of flour. YEAST, Kirkleatham. Ingredients.—2 oz. of hops, 4 quarts of water, i lb. of flour, h pint of yeast. Mode.—Boil the hops and water for 20 minutes ; strain, and mix with the liquid h lb. of flour and not quite ^ pint of yeast. Bottle it up, and tie the corks down. When wanted for use, boil po- tatoes according to the quantity of bread to be made (about 3 lbs. are sufTicient for about a peck of flour); mash them, add to them ^ lb. of flour, and mix about ^ pint of the yeast with them ; let this mixture stand all day, and lay the bread to rise the night before it is wanted. Time.—20 minutes to boil the hops and water. Sufficient.—^ pint of this yeast sufficient lor a peck of fiour, or rather more.