37 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. Beef, Potted Proportion of butter is used, it may be IreseiTcd for some time. Time.—3| lOurs. Average cost, for this quantity, s. lOrf. Seasonable at any time. [Cold Meat Cookery. 2.] Ingredients. -The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, lb. of butter, cayenne to taste, 2 blades f pounded mace. Mode.—The outside ices of boiled beef may, with a little rouble, be converted into a very nice ddition to the breakfast-tablo. Cut up le meat into small pieces and pound it ell, with a little butter, in a mortar; id a seasoning of cayenne and mace, id be very particular that the latter jioe is reduced to the finest pow- er. When all the ingredients are loroughly mixed, put them into glass or irthen potting-pots, and pour on the •p a coating of clarified butter. Season- '>le at any time. Ifote.—If cold roast beef is used, re- ove all pieces of gristle and dry outside eces, as these do not pound well. IEF BAGOTJT. OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients.— at 2 lbs. of cold roast beef, 6 onions, ler, salt, and mixed spices to taste ; it of boiling water, 3 tablespoonfuls ^vy. Mode.—Cut the beef into 3r largo pieces, and put them into wpan with the onions, which must iced. Season well with pepper, salt, mixed spices, and pour over about ^ of boiling water, and gravy in the e proportion (gravy saved from the ; answers the purpose); let the whole very gently for about 2 hours, and > with pickled walnuts, gherkins, or rs, just warmed in the gravy. Time. urs. Average cost, exclusive of the id. Seasonable at any time. EF.Hib-boncs of (a pretty Dish). OLD Meat Cookery.] Ingredients. bs of beef bones, 1 onion chopped a few slices of carrot and turnip, pint of gravy. Mode.— The bones this dish should have left on them light covering of meat; saw them o pieces 3 inches long; season them h pepper and salt, and put them into stewpan with tho remaining ingro- nts. Stew gently, until the vegetables tender, and servo on a flat dish within Is of raa.shod potatoes. Time.—I hour, Beef, Boast Ribs of. Average cost, exclusive of the bones, 2d. Seasonable at any time. BEEF, Boast Bibs of. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode. —The fore-rib is considered the primest roasting piece, but the middle-rib is con- sidered the most economical. Let tho meat be well hung (should the weather permit), having previously cut off the ends of tho bones, which should be salted for a few days, and then boiled. Put the meat down to a nice clear fire, with some clean dripping in tho pan, dredge the joint with a little flour, and keep continually basting it all the time it is cooking. Sprinkle some fine salt over it (this must never be done until the joint is dished, as it draws the juices from the meat); pour tho drip- ping from the pan, put in a little boiling water, and strain the gravy over the meat. Garnish with tufts of scraped horseradish, and send horseradish sauco to table with it. A Yorkshire pudding {see Puddings) sometimes accompanies this dish, and, if lightly made and well cooked, will be found a very agi-eeablo addition. Time.—10 lbs. of beef, 2^ hours ; 14 to 16 lbs., from 3| to 4 hours. Average cost, Qd. per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. sufiicient for 8 or 9 per- sons. Seasonable at any time. BEEP, Boast Bibs of. Boned and Boiled (a very convenient Joint for a small Family). Ingredients. — 1 or 2 ribs of beef. Mode.—Choose a fine rib of beef, and have it cut according to the weight you require, either wide or narrow. Bone and roll tho meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if neces- sary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, or, if a bottle- jack is used, put the joint on the hook, and place it near a nice clear firo. Let it remain so till tho outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the firo. As this joint is solid, rather more than \ hour must bo allowed for each lb. liemovo tho skowers, put in a plated or silver one, and send tho joint to table with gravy in tho dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. Horseradish sauco is a groat improvement to roast beef.