879 Koast Partridge. EED MTJIiLET. Ingredients.—Oiled paper, thickening of butter and flour, ^ tea-spoonful of ichovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry; cayenne and salt to taste. Ilode.—Clean the fish, -take out the gills, and leave the inside, fold in oiled I per, and bake them gently. When done, take the liquor that flows from the 50, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flour ; put in the other ingredients, id let it boil for two minutes. Serve the sauce in a tureen, and the fish either ith or without the paper cases. TO BOIL IiOBSTEBS. Ingredients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of lotion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is encrusted, it 1 a sign they are old : medium-sized lobsters are the best. Have ready a stewpan f boUiug water, salted in the above proportion ; put in the lobster, and keep it oQing quickly from 20 minutes to f hour, according to its size, and do not forget ) skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done Qough, the spawn is not red : this must be obviated by great attention. Rub le shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. TO DBESS CBAB. Ingredients.—1 crab, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 ditto of oil; salt, white iepper, and cayenne, to taste. Mode.—Empty the shells, and thoroughly mix the meat with the above ingre- .ients, and put it into the large shell. Garnish with slices of cut lemon and parsley. ?h© quantity of oil may be increased when it is much liked. BOAST PABTBIDGE. Ingredients.—Partridge, butter. Choosing and Trussing—Choose young birds, with dark-coloured bills and ellowish legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no flavour to the esh, nor will it be tender. The time they should be kept entirely depends on be taste of those for whom they are intended, as what some persons would con- ider delicious would be to others disgusting aad offensive. They may be trussed nth or without tho head, the latter mode being now considered the most fashion- ble. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge carefully inside and out; cut ofl" the lead, leaving sufficient skin on tho neck to skewer back ; bring the legs close to bo breast, between it and the side-bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions ,nd the thick part of the thighs. When the head is left on, it should be brought ound and fixed on to the point of the skewer. Roast before a pice bright fire ; keep it well bagted, and a few minutes