XXX Philosophy of Housekeeping. thoroughly acquainted herself with household afiFairs, can, with one active, in'di- ligent, and obliging servant, manage her establishment both comfortably and creditably ; that she can have a clean and neat house, and well-cooked meali punctually served at regular hours, without being herself a " household drudge." Wo believe that uncleanliness, untidiness, and waste, with unwholesome foo ] at uncertain intervals—than which there is nothing more trying to the temper and digestion of man—and all the other discomforts and annoyances of an ill-organized household, are no more necessities in a family where only one servant can be afforded, than in one that is served by a whole retinue of domestics. 176. The following account of the daily work of a general servant, which we make as accurate and minute as possible, shows how a household can be mana. ed with one servant; we trust that it may prove useful to mistress and maid ; i; re particularly in those cases where, from want of an early training, or from ha : l- but recently entered on those duties and responsibilities, the mistress doe.s . t possess the knowledge required for ordering her household. THE DIVISION OP LABOUB 177. Is a most important part of household economy. A mistress can assist her servant in her work, and lighten it for her, without having to perform offii uncongenial and distasteful to a woman of education and refinement. In on to explain these relative duties in the most clear and comprehensive mai possible, we give an outline of the servant's work in the order in which ii necessary and most convenient that she should perform it, followed by an outl: of the share of the domestic duty which falls mOot pleasantly and naturall the mistress, concluding with tried methods of " the best mode of doing thingi THE SERVANT. 178. Early rising is a most essential point; therefore, as a rule, six, ?nmi and winter, is the hour at which to rise. The morning work, with fires and ei boot-cleaning, is heavier in winter than ia summer ; therefore at that seasoni maid can less afford to lie late in bed. 179. On coming downstairs she should open all the shutters, and, If the we be fine, the windows of all the lower rooms. ISO. She should then go to the kitchen, and having cleared out the rcmaiil the fire of the night before, and brushed up, blacked, and brightened the she should proceed— TO LIGHT THE KITCHEN FIRE. 181. She will then go on— TO SWEEP THE BREAKFAST-ROOM.