392 Philosophy of Housekeeping. OMELETTE AUX PINES HERBES. INGRKDIENTS.—2 Or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, ^ teocupful of milk. il/oc/e.—Make a thin cream of the flour and milk; then beat up the eggs, mix all together, and a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small fryingpan, and, when very hot, pour in the batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire ; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a few shreds of onion ; double the omelet dexterously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can bo made by the same process, substituting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. CAULIFLOWEKS A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. {Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served with the Second Course.) Ingredients.—3 cauliflowers, ^ pint of sauce blanche, or French melted butter, 3 oz. of butter, salt and water. Mode.—Cleanse the cauliflowers, and cut the stalks off flat at the bottom; boil them until tender in salt and water, to which the above proportion of butter has been added, and be cai'eful to take them up the moment they are done, or they will break, and the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready ^ pint of sauce, pour it over, and serve hot and quickly. TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. Ingredients.—6 ozs. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, batter, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kidneys. Mode.—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk, and eggs, in the above propor- tion ; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should be cut into rather small pieces ; bake about 1 hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oysters or mushi-ooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found exceedingly good. BEETROOT. Ingredients.—Beetroot, boiling water. Mode.—When large, young, and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be converted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot: when the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to the table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted cnions. Wash the beets thoroughly; but do not prick or break the skin before