mt fitCTlONAEY OP COOKERY. icnic, Things not to be forgotten iponge cakes, a tin of mixed biscuits, b. of tea. Coflfee is not suitable for a inic, being difficult to make, [CNIC, Things not to be forgotten at. \, stick of horseradish, a bottle of Qt-sauce well corked, a bottle of salad jssing, a bottle of vinegar, made mus- d, pepper, salt, good oil, and pounded rar. If it can be managed, take a little . It is scarcely necessary to say that .tes, tumblers, wine-glasses, knives, ks, and spoons, must not be forgotten ; also teacups and saucers, 3 or 4 tea- s, some lump sugar, and milk, if this ;-named article cannot be obtained in 1 neighbourhood. Take 3 corkscrews. "everages.— 3 dozen quart bottles of , packed in hampers; ginger-beer, a-water, and lemonade, of each 2 ;en bottles; 6 bottles of sherry, 6 bot- 5 of claret, champagne h discretion, I any other light wine that may be ferred, and 2 bottles of brandy, iter can usually be obtained, so it is less to take it. G, Sucking, to Carve. I sucking-pig seems, at first sight, her an elaborate dish, or rather mal, to carve ; but by carefully mas- ing the details of the business, every iculty will vanish; and if a partial ure be at first made, yet all embar- sment will quickly disappear on a ond trial. A sucking-pig is usually t to table in the manner shown in the graving, and the first point to be BrcKiira-riG. ended to is to separate the shoulder rn the carcase, by carrying the knife ckly and neatly round the circular 3, as shown by the figures 1, 2, 3;— ! shoulder will then easily come away. . 0 next step is to take off the leg ; and . 3 is done in the same way, by cutting ind this joint in the direction shown the figures i, 2, 3, in the same way Pig, Sucking, Boast as the shoulder. The ribs then stand fairly open to tho knife, which should be carried down in the direction of the line 4 to 5 ; and two or three helpings will dispose of these. The other half of the pig is served, of course, in tho same manner. Different parts of the pig are variously esteemed; some preferring the flesh of the neck ; others, the ribs ; and others, again, the shoulders. The truth is, the whole of a sucking-pig is deli- cious, delicate eating ; but, in carving it, the host should consult the various tastea and fancies of his guests, keeping the larger joints, generally, for the gentle- men of the party. PIGr, Sucking, Roast. Ingredients. — Pig, 6 oz. of bread crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to baste with, about ^ pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three weeks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, aa in the following recipe, stuff it with EOAST SUCZUfG-Pia. finely-grated bread crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter tlie size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the slit neatly, and truss the legs back, to allow the inside to be roasted, and the under part to be crisp. Put the pig down to a bright clear fire, not too near, and let it lay till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter tied up in a piece of thin cloth, and rub the pig with this in every part. Keep it well rubbed with tho butter tho whole of tho time it is roast- ing, and do not allow the crackling to become blistered or burnt. When half- done, hang a pig-iron before the middle part (if this is not obtainable, use a flat iron), to prevent its being scorched anci