TUE DICTIONARY 01? COOKEEY. S38 Tartlets, Polish DlSn OP TAEILETS, close to the edj^o of the pan. Put a Email piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake in a .brisk oven .for about 10 mi- nutes, or rather longer. When they are done, and are of a nice colour, take the pieces of bread out carefully, and replace them by a spoon- ful of jam or marmalade. Dish them high on a white d'oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, \d. each. SvjfL- dent.—1 lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of "iartlets. Seasonable at any time. TABTLETS, Polish. Ingredients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, pounded sugar. Ilode.—Eoll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into 2g-inch squares; brush each square over with the white of an egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the middle of each piece of paste; slightly press the two pieces together, brush them over with the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for about I hour. When they are done, make a little hole in the middle of the paste, and fill it up with apricot jam, marmalade, or red-currant jelly. Pile them high in the centre of a dish, on a napkin, and garnish with the same pre- seiTO the tartlets are filled with. Time. —\ hour or 20 minutes. Average cost, with h lb. of pufif-paste, Is. Svfficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. Note.—It should be bonio in mind, that, for all dishes of small pastry, such C.s the preceding, trimmings of puff- jiaste, left from iaigcr tarts, answer as well as making the paste expressly. TEA, to make. There is very little art in making good tea; if the water is boiling, and fhcro is no sparing of the fragrant leaf, the beverage will almost invariably bo good. The old-fashioned plan of allow- ing a tcaspoonful to each person, and ono over, is still practised. Warm the teapot with boiling water ; let it remain for two or three minutes for tho vessel to become thoroughly hot, then pour it away. Put in tho tea, pour in Irom h Tea-Cakes to J pint of boiling water, close the lid,, and let it stand for the tea to dr.^w• from 6 to 10 minutes; then fill up the pot with water. Tho tea will be quite spoiled unless made with water that is actually boiling, as the leaves will not' open, and the flavour not be extracted from them; the beverage will conse- quently be colourless and tasteless,^ in fact, nothing but tepid water. Whera i there is a very large party to make tea. for, it is a good plan to have two tea- pots, instead of putting a largo quantity of tea into one pot; the tea, besides, will go farther. When the infusion has been once completed, the addition of fresh tea adds very little to the strength; so, when more is required, have the pot emptied of the old leaves, scalded, and fresh tea made in the usual manner. Economists say that a few grains of car- bonate of soda, added before the boiling water is poured on the tea, assist to draw out the goodness; if the water is very hard, perhaps it is a good plan, as the soda softens it; but care must be taken to use this ingi-edient spa- ringly, as it is liable to give the tea a eoapy taste if added in too largo a quantity. For mixed tea, the usual proportion is four spoonfuls of black to one of green; more of the latter when theflavourisvery much liked ; but strong green tea is highly pernicious, and should never be pai-takeu of too freely. Time.— 2 minutes to warm the teapot, 5 to 10 minutes to draw the strength from the tea. Sufficient.—AHovf 1 teaspoonful to each person. TEA-CAKES. " Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, \ tea- spoonful of salt, ^ lb. of butter or lard, 1 egg, a piece of German yeast the size of a walnut, warm milk. Mode.—Put tho flour (which should be perfectly dry) into a basin; mix with it the salt, and rub in tho butter or lard ; then beat tho egg well, stir to it tho yeast, and add these to tho flour with as much warm milk as will make tho whole into a smooth paste, and knead it well. Lot'it rise near tho fire, and, when well risen, form it into cakes; place them on tins, let them 2-:so again for a few minutes before putting them into tho oven, and bake from \ to J, hour in a moderate oven. Those are very nice with a few currants and a littlo sugar added to the other ingredient^