Philosophy of Housekeeping. should first go and order anything required for the bouse, then return visits, or take a good constitutional until four o'clock. From four to five write letters, or road for an hour (serious reading, leaving light reading for evening). At five, when necessary, go downstairs to speak to cook, glance round to see all pre- parations are getting forward for the six o'clock dinner; then go upstairs, inspect the housemaid's performance of needlework, always laid in your room for that purpose, and dress for dinner. Go into the dining-room, and see all is read}', put out the wine, arrange dessert and flowers. Then be ready at a quarter to six to receive le mari, and see that he has his hot water, slippers, &c. At six, dinner, after which coffee and amusements of music, reading, cards, or needle- work of a light nature. 35. Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday mornings may be devoted to the garden and plants, the afternoon to walking or driving as before, or any particular hobby or study. 36. Minor Details 01" Housework should be attended to by the mistress, who should see that her servants attend to the little things that give a neat and cared- for appearance to the house. For example, the doorsteps must be cleaned and whitened daily ; the blinds drawn down and shutters closed regularly as soon as it is dark; all windows closed at sunset, and opened as soon as possible in tho morning. The mistress must look at the outside of her house as well as see that the inside is all right. She should sui-vey her house on all sides from a litt'a distance, and note if it is as nice as she coiild wish in respect to repairs, arrange- ment of curtains, blinds, &c. The forecourt and garden also must be trim and neat^ if not gay with flowers. Periodically the roof and gutters should be exa- mined, and all refuse matter removed, and free passage given for the rain-water. Even in London soft water may be enjoyed by the careful housewife who will take the trouble and go to the expense of starting a proper system of catching and preserving it. 37. First, she must purchase an ordinary water-butt, provided with a tap near the bottom, and with a removable Ud ; the water from the roof passes naturally through an ordinary pipe into this butt. A tank, about ten feet deep and four ■ feet in diameter, bricked and cemented, must be provided as near as possible to this, and from the water-butt to the tank a pipe is carried, one end of it being cemented in the tank, the other carried up to within six inches of the top of the* water-butt, and fitted with a rose. As soon as the water-butt is filled, the waterr flows down the pipe into the tank ; a common pump in the house brings it in- fresh and clean, ready for use. "But how clean?" asks an anxioi.s matron. " How can London roof washings be clean ?" For ten minutes after rain "sets.' in " tnrn the tao of your water butt, and allow the water to nm. In less thani this time a smart shower will have thoroughly cleansed your roof. Then stop- the flow, and allow the water-butt to fill; all the deposits in the water wiU be- lt.