The Cook Gets the Dinner Beady. 378. Then the cruet-stand in the middle of the table, and the two salt-cellara at the corners between the spocms. 379. Thin table-mats at each place where a dish is to stand. 380. She should then bring up and place on the sideboard the bread on the bread-plate or in the bread-basket. She should cut some up^, and place a small piece in the folds of each napkin or beside it. 381. She should also place on the sideboard the bottled ale or stout, if any member of the family is in the habit of partaking of it; and the corkscrew next. Also a jug of cold water, an empty jug for the table beer, if that be used, and a basin of sifted sugar. 382. If cheese be used, that should be placed on the sideboard, and butter on the butter-dish. For this four additional plates will be required, and four knives, which should be also placed on the sideboard. 383. If dessert is taken, that should be placed on the table down the centre, in which case the cruet-stand will be put on the sideboard. For dessert four dessert plates will be required, and four dessert knives and forks, which should be kept on the sideboard till wanted. The wine should bo put on—the sherry at the right-hand top corner, the claret at the right-hand bottom corner, not near the edge of the table, but inside the spoons and salt-cellars. 384. All these things should be scrupulously clean and bright. Before I bringing them up the housemaid ought to go over all the glass with a clean linen cloth, 385. While the housemaid lays the table— THJE COOK GETS THE DINZSTER READY. 386. To send a dinner to table all in nice order and thoroughly well cooked, depends not only on the cook's skill in preparing each particular dish nicely itself, but on her knowledge of how to prepare them all with regard to each other; many people quite capable of frying a dish of fish, or roasting a joint very well, hy themselves, would yet make a complete muddle of a dinner of four courses. 387. The first and most important thing is to set about it in time; nothing can be properly done unless sufficient time is taken to do it in. The next is to under- stand what things in the dinner will bear to bo cooked some little time before they are to be eaten without spoiling, and to get them ready first.