75 ^HE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. Chestnut Soup water for a few minutes; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan with the white stock and lemon- peel, and let them simmer for Ig hour, or until the chestnuts are quite tender. Kuh the whole through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon ; add seasoning and the cream ; let it just simmer, but not boil, and keep stirring all the time. Serve very hot, and quickly. If milk is used instead of cream, a very small quantity of thickening may be required: that, of course, the cook will determine. Time. —Altogether, nearly 2 hours. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient, this quantity for a tm-key. CHESTNUT (Spanish.) SOUP. Ingredients.—f lb. of Spanish chest- nuts, \ pint of cream ; seasoning to taste of salt, caj'-enne, and mace; 1 quart of stock. Mode.—Take the outer rind from the chestnuts, and put them into a large pan of warm water. As soon as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take out the chestnuts, peel them quickly, and immerse them in cold water, and wipe and weigh them. Now cover them with good stock, and stew them gently for rather more than f of an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork ; then drain, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve reversed ; add suffi- cient stock, mace, cayenne, and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put in the cream. The stock in which the chest- nuts are boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or it may, in part, be added to it; and the rule is, that ^ lb. of chestnuts should be given to each quart of soup. Time.— Bather more than 1 hour. Average cost, per quart, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from October to February. CHICKETTS, Boiled. Ingredients.—K pair of chickens, wa- ; or. C'/ioosi,vg and Trvssivg.—In choos- ing fowls for boiling, it should be borne in mind that those which are not black- Iccrgcd are generally much whiter when dressed. Pick, draw, singe, wash, and truss them in the following manner, without the livers in the wings ; and, in drawing, be careful not to break the gall-bladder :—Cut off the neck, leaving BuflRcicnt skin to skewer back. Cut the feet off to the first joint, tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the belly, Chicken Broth. twist the wings over the back of the fowl, and secure the top of the leg and tho bottom of the wing together by running a skewer through them and the body. The other side must be done in the same manner. Should the fowl be very large and old, draw the sinews of the legs before tucking them in. Make a slit in the apron of the fowl, large enough to admit the parson's nose, and tie a string on the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper place. Mode.—When they are firmly trussed, put them into a stew- pan with plenty of hot'water, bring it to boil, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Simmer very gently until the fowl is tender, and bear in mind that the slower it boils the plumper and whiter BOILED POWl. will the fowl be. Many cooks wrap them in a floured cloth to preserve the colour, and to prevent tho scum from clinging to them; in this case, a few slices of lemon should be placed on the breasts, over these a sheet of biittered paper, and then the cloth; cooking them in this manner renders the flesh very white. Boiled ham, bacon, boiled tongue, or pickled pork, are the usual accompani- ments to boiled fowls, and they may be served with Bechamel, white sauce, par- sley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery, or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the fowls after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. Time. —Largo fowl, 1 hour ; moderate-sized one, 3 hour; chicken, from 20 minutes to n hour. Average cost, in full season, 5s. the pair. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonalle all the year, but scarce in early spring. CHICKEN BHOTH. Ingredients.— ^ fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one; 1 quart of water, 1 blade of mace, h onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, 10 pepper- corns. Mode.—An old fowl not suitable for eating may be converted into very good broth ; or, if a young one be used, tho inferior joints may be put in the broth, and the best pieces reserved foi