m THE DICTIONAE? OF COOKSrY. i«rTi - -1 I Rump-steak Pie minutes. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient.—A.\\ov7 I lb. to each person ; if the party consist entirely of gentle- man, 'i lb. will not be too much. _ Sea- sonable all the year, but not good in the height of summer, as the meat cannot hang long enough to be tender. RUMP-STEAK PIE. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of rump-steak, seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, and black pepper, crust, water, the yolk of an egg. il/oc/e.—Have the steaks cut from a rump that has hung a few days, that thoy may be tender, and be parti- cular that every portion is perfectly sweet. Cut the steaks into pieces about 3 inches long and 2 wide, allowing a imall piece of fat to each piece of lean, and arrange the meat in layers in a pie- dish. Between each layer sprinkle a seasoning of salt, pepper, and, when liked, a few grains of cayenne. Fill the dish sufficiently with meat to support the crust, and to give it a nice raised appeai-ance when baked, and not to look fiat and hollow. Pour in suffi- cient water to half fill the dish, and border it with paste {see Pastry); brush it over with a little watei-, and put on the cover; slightly press down the edges with the thumb, and trim off close to the dish. Ornament the pie with leaves, or pieces of paste cut in any shape that fancj"^ may direct, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg ; make a hole in the top of the crust, and bake in a hot oven for about lA hour. I'iiiie.— In a hot oven, 1.^ hour. Averarje cost, for this size, 3s. 6cl. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. RTJMP-STEAK PUDDING, Baked. Ingredients.—6 oz. of flonr, 2 eggs, not quite 1 pint of milk, salt to taste, 1^ lb. of rump-steaks, 1 kidney, pepper and salt. Mode.—Cut the steaks into nice square pieces, with a small quantity of fat, and the kidney divide into small pieces. Make a batter of flour, eggs, and milk in the above proportion ; lay a little of it at the bottom of a pie-dish ; then put in the steaks and kidney, which should be well seasoned with popper and salt, and pour over the remainder of the batter, and bake for 1^ hour in a hrisk but not fierce ovea.—Time,—1^ hour. Riimp-steak with Fried Potatoes Average cost, 2s. Sxcfficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. RUMP-STEAK, Rolled, Boasted, and Stuffed. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, forcemeat, pepper and salt to taste, clarified butter. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thick from a well-hung rump of beef, and sprinklo over them a seasoning of pepper and salt. Make a forcemeat; spread it over half of the steak; roll it up, bind and skewer it firmly, that the forcemeat may not escape, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about 1^ hour, or ra- ther longer, should the roll be very large and thick. Keep it constantly basted with butter, and serve with brown gravy, some of which must be poured round the steak, and the remainder sent to table in a tureen. Time.—1| hour. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable aU the year, but best in winter. RUMP-STEAK WITH FRIED POTATOES, or BIFTEK AUX POMMES-DE-TERRE (&. la Mode Frangaise). Ingredients.—2 lb. of steak, 8 pota- toes, \ lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced herbs. Mode.—Put the butter into a frying or saule pan, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot; peel, and cut the potatoes into long thin slices; put them into the hot butter, and fry them till of a nice brown colour. Now broil the steaks over a bright clear fire, turning them fre; quently, that every part may be equally done: as they should not be thick, 6 minutes will broil them. Put the herbs and seasoning in the butter the potatoes were fried in, pour it under the steak, and place the fried potatoes round, as a garnish. To have this dish in perfection, a portion of the fillet of the sirloin should be used, as the meat is generally so much more tender than that of the rump, and the steaks should be cut about ^ of an inch in thickness. Time.—5 minutes to broil the steaks, and about the same time to fry the potatoes. Average cost. Is, per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Season- able all the year ; but not so good in warm weather, as the meat cannot hanjf io get tender