xviii Philosophy of Housekeeping. persons; ndvertising for servants; answering advertisements; and applying at servants' offices. 101. When servants are obtained through TnADESSfEN, which is one of the easiest modes, there are some disadvantages. The servant is placed under favour to her patron, and in case of a dishonest butcher, for example, would be expected to shut her eyes to short weights, inferior meat, &c. Then she frequently has acquaintances in the neighbourhood, or has been servant of some of one's friends : two objections to begin with, and many others will suggest themselves. Adveh- TisiNG for servants costs from three to five shillings, according to the length of advertisement, and entails remaining at home during the hours stated. 102. This, where practicable, is an excellent plan, for when the lady sees a ser- vant whose appearance pleases her, whose recommendations are apparently good, and whose "character" is not " short," she can enter into details of the work, show the servant the house, the rooms, and ascertain whether the arrangements, it carried out, are likely to be permanent. The servant, on her side, can judge of the kind of place and mistress, and decide for or against it at once, instead of in a " month's time." 103. But, as every plan has its drawbacks, if evilly disposed, the servant about to leave can prejudice the new comer against the place. 104. Answering advertisements is by no means a certain way of obtaininL- servants, and should not be resorted to when time is an object. 105. Applying at servants' offices and homes is one of the best plans ; and at some of these, ladies can comfortably see and engage servants. The characters are all inspected by the managers ; but as, with so large a number, the minute points which so particularly affect the comfort of a household cannot be deter- mined, a mistress should never thiuk any trouble too great which allows a personal interview with the late mistress of the proposed maid. OBSEEVATIOWS ON" SERVANTS, WITH REGARD TO THEIR COMING AND GOING. 106. "WARNlNas on either side are usually for that'day month on which the warning was given, and it is well for a mistress to begin at once to look out for a good maid to replace the going-out servant. 107. An excellent place to meet with respectable servants is the Soho Bazaar, whore one can see them quietly ; and the terms are only five shillings, paid when one is suited with a servant. It is well at the time of hiring to state distinctly the exact nature of the service required. For example, if a cook is wanted to undertake the dining-room, hall, and passages, it should be distinctly stated