32i THE DTCTIOHAR!^ 01? COOKERt. Soup, a la Flamando Boup off the firo, put the eggs, &c., to it and keep stirring it well. Bring it almost to boiling point, but do not leave off stirring, or the eggs will curdle. Season with salt, and add the sugar. 7'ivie.— 2h hours. Average cost, Is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from May to August. Suffi- cient for 8 persons. SOUP, h la Flamande (Flemish). Ingredients. — 5 onions, 5 heads of celery, 10 moderate-sized potatoes, 3 oz. butter, g pint of water, \ pint of cream, 2 quarts of stock. A/ode.—Slice the onions, celery, and potatoes, and put them with the butter and water into a stcwpan, and simmer for an hour. Then fill up the stewpan with stock, and boil gently till the potatoes are done, which will be in about an hour. Hub all through a tammy, and add the cream (previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in. Time.—2h hours. Average cost, Is. 4d. per quart. Seasonalle from September to May. Svfficient for 8 persons. Note.—This souid can be made with water instead of stock. SOUP, a Good Family. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, any cold pieces of meat or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of celery, 4 quarts of water, 5 tcacupful of rice ; salt and pepper to Taste. Mode.—Vut all the ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer gently for 4 hours, or until all the good- ness is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and lot it stand to get cold. The kernels and soft parts of the tongue must bo saved. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot, turnip, and onion ; stew till the vege- tables are tender, and serve with toasted bread. Time. —5 hours. Average cost, Zd. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Svfficient for 12 persons. SOUP, Hessian. Ingredients.—llali an ox's head, 1 pint of split peas, 8 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 EotatocF, 6 onions, 1 head of celorj', 1 unch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of mace, a little all- spice, 4 cloves, tho crumb of a French roll, G quarts of water. J/y<!e.—Clean Soup, Prince of Wales's , ^ the head, rub it with salt and water, at: i' soak it for 5 hours in warm watc< Simmer it in the water till tender, p it into a pan and let it cool; skim off i, the fat; take out the head, and add tit vegetables cut up small, and the ipett which have been previously soak eel simmer them without tho meat, till the. » are done enough to pulp through a stevii » Put in the seasoning, with the pieces •. »■ meat cut up; give one boil, and serv^i v Time.—4 hours. Average coU, Gd. p(i i: quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficiet. 6 for 16 persons. • Note.—An excellent hash or ragoilt ca > :; be made by cutting up the nicest par: of the head, thickening and seasonin. more highly a little of the soup, ar;. adding a glass of port wine and 2 tabli-i spoonfuls of ketchup. SOUP, Portable. Ingredients. — 2 knuckles of veal, shins of beef, 1 large faggot of herbs,, bay-leaves, 2 heads of celery, 3 oniomis 3 carrots, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, . teaspoonful of salt, sufBcient water tu. cover all the ingredients. Mode.—Takk the marrow from the bones ; put all thL( ingredients in a stock-pot, and simmec slowly for 12 hom-s, or more, if the mea.- be not done to rags ; strain it off, and pu ; it in a very cool place ; take off all th. fat, reduce the liquor in a shallow pan- by setting it over a sharp fire, but bi particular that it does not burn ; boil r t fast and uncovered for 8 hours, and kecj t it stirred. Put it into a deep dish, ani i set it by for a day. Have ready a stew pan of boiling water, place the dish ir: it, and keep it boiling; stir occasionally: and when the soup is thick and ropy, ii; is done. Form it into little cakes bj pouring a small quantity on to the botton . of cups or basins ; when cold, turn then out on a flannel to dry. Keep them fron: the air in tin canisters. Average cos> of this quantity, 16*. ^T^P^^ _goup can bo made in 5 minutes - with this, by dissolving a sm Jl piece, ^ about the size of a walnut, in a pint of warm water, and sviinering for 2 mi- nutes. Vermicelli, nincftroni, or other' Italian pastes, may bo added. SOUP, Prince of Wales's. Ingredients.—\2 turnips, 1 lump of' sugar, 2 spoonfuls of strong veal stock, sait and white pepper to taste, 2 q\mrt» ■'