294 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Eump-steak and Oyster Sauce cut oach kidney into 8 pieces. Line the dish with crust made with suet and flour in the abovo proportion, leaving a small piece of crust to overlap the edge. Then cover the bottom with a portion of the steak and a few pieces of kidney ; season with salt and pepper (some add a little flour to thicken the gravy, but it is not necessary), and then add another layer of steak, kidney, and seasoning. Proceed in this manner till the dish is full, when pour in sufficient water to come within 2 inches of the top of the basin. Moisten the edges of the crust, cover the pudding over, press the two crusts together, that the gravy may not escape, and turn up the overhanging paste. Wring out a cloth in hot water, flour it, and tie up the pudding ; put it into boiling water, and let it boil for at least 4 hours. If the water diminishes, always replenish with some hot in a jug, as the pudding should be kept covered all the time, and not allowed to stop boiling. When the cloth is removed, cut out a round piece in the top of the crust, to prevent the pudding bursting, and send it to table in the basin, either in an ornamental dish, or with a napkin pinned round it. Serve quickly. Time.—For a pudding with 2 lbs. of steak and 2 kidneys allow 4 hours. Average, cost, 2s. %d. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. Note.—Rump-steak pudding may bo very much enriched by adding a few oysters or mushrooms. In Sussex, the inhabit3,nts are noted for their savoury puddiiigs, which are usually made in the manner just described. It differs from the general way of making them, as the meat is cut up into very small pieces and the basin is differently shaped, re- sembling a very large saucer: on trial, this pudding will be found far nicer, and more full of gravy, than when laid in large pieces in the dish. EUMP-STEAK AND OYSTEB SAUCE. IncjrecUenis.—Z dozen oyslws, ingre- dients for oyster sauce, 2 lb. of rump- steak, seasoning to taste of popper and salt. Mode.—Make the oyster sauce, and when that is ready, put it by the side of the fire, but do not let it keep boiling. Have the steaks cut of an equal thickness, broil them over a I; Eump-steak or Beef-Btoak, Broilec: very clear fire, turning them often, tha' the gravy may not escape. In about { minutes they will be done, when puv them on a very hot dish ; smother will- the oyster sauce, and the remainder senc to table in a tureen. Servo quickly Time.—About8 to 10 minutes, accordinj. to the thickness of the steak. A veragt cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 personam Seasonable from September to April. EUMP-STEAK or BEEF." STEAK, Broiled. Ingredients,—Steaks, apiece of buttei: the size of a walnut, salt to taste, ] tablespoon ful of good mushroom ket-t- chup or Harvey's sauce. Mode.—Atuift the success of a good broil so mucbifr depends on the state of the fire, see thai it is bright and clear, and perfectly fref from smoke, and do not add any fresb fuel just before you require to use the gridiron. Sprinkle a little salt over the fire, put on the gridiron for a few mi- nutes, to get thoroughly hot through; rub it with a piece of fresh suet, to pre*! vent the meat from sticking, and lay on* t the steaks, which should be cut of ar equal thickness, about # of an inch, c: rather thinner, and level them by beating them as Utile as possible with a rolling pin. Turn them frequently with steak- tongs (if these are not at hand, stick & \ fork in the edge of the fat, that no g'''a^H| escapes), and in from 8 to 10 miuuMW they will be done. Have ready a vei hot dish, into which put the ketchu}, and, when liked, a little minced shalot; ^: dish up the steaks, rub them over with butter, and season with pepper and sal: The exact time for broiling steaks mu- be determined by taste, whether thi. are liked underdone or well done ; more than from 1 to 10 minutes for a steak \ inch in thickness, we think, would . spoil and diy up the juices of the meat, ' Great expedition is necessarj' in sendir" broiled steaks to table ; and, to hai them in perfection, they should not be cooked till everj-thing else prepared for dinner has been dished up, as their cn cellence entirely depends on their bein served very hot. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or slices of cucn- hrr. Oyster, tomato, onion, and man} sauces, are frequent accompanimc rump-steak, but true lovers of Hi English dish generally reject all additioi but pepper and salt. iTune.—8 to ]