THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY 4 Apple Fritters and place them in boilinfr water. Keep tliem boiling from ^ to 1 hour ; remove the cloths, and send them hot and quickly to table. Dumplings boiled in knitted cloths have a very pretty appearance ■when they come to table. The cloths should be made square, just large enough to hold one dumpling, and should be knitted in plain knitting, with very coarse cotton. Time.—^ to 1 hour, or longer should the dumplings be very large. Average cost', \hd. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January. APPLE FBITTEBS. Ingredients.—For the batter, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, h oz. of butter, ^ saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milk, 4 medium-sized apples, hot lard or clari- fied beef-dripping. 3Iocle.—Break the eggs, dividing the whites from the yolks, and beat them separately. Put the flour into a basin, stir in the butter, which should be melted to a cream ; add the Bait, and moisten with sufiicient warm milk to make it of a proper consistency, that is to say, a batter that will drop from the spoon. Stir this well, rub down any lumps that may be seen, add the yolks and then the whites of the eggs, which have been previously well whisked ; beat up the batter for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Now peel and cut the apples into rather thick whole slices, without dividing them, and stamp out the middle of each slice, where the core is, with a cutter. Throw the slices into the batter; have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping ; take out the pieces of apple one by one, put them into the hot lard, and fry a nice brown, turning them when required. ' When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to absorb the greasy moisture; then dish on a white d'oyley, piling the fritters one above the other; strew over them some pounded sugar, and serve very hot. The flavour of the fritters would be very much improved by soaking the pieces of apple in a little wine, mixed with sugar and lemon-juice, for 3 or 4 hours beforo wanted for table ; the batter, also, is bettor for being mixed some hours beforo the fritters are made. iTime.—From 7 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 6 minutes to drsan tbcm. Average cost, 9d. StcJJicient Apple Jelly for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE JAM. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weighed after being pared, cored, and sliced, allow 5 lb. of preserving-sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the juice of | lemon. Mode.—Peel the apples, core and slice them very thin, and be particu- lar that they are all the same sort. Put them into a jar, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the applea stew until quite tender. Previously to putting the fruit into the jar, weigh it, to ascertain the proportion of sugar that may be required. Put the apples into a preserving-pan, crush the sugar to small lumps, and add it, with the grated lemon-rind and juice, to the apples. Simmer these over the fire for ^ hour, reckoning from the time the jam begins to simmer properly ; remove the scum as it rises, and, when the jam is done, put it into pots for use. Place a piece of oiled paper over the jam, and, to exclude the air, cover the pots with tissue paper dipped in the white of an egg, and stretched over the top. This jam will keep good for a long time. Time.—From 3 to 4 hours to stew in the jar ; i hoxu" to boil after the jam begins to simmer. Average cost, for this quantity, bs. Suf- ficient.—7 or 8 lbs. of apples for 6 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in Septem- ber, October, or November, when apples can be bought at a reasonable price. APPLE JELLY. Ingredients.—To G lbs. of apples allow 3 pints of w'ater ; to every quart of juico allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar;—the juice of h lemon. Mode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and put them into a jar, with water in the above proportion. Place them in a cool oven, with the jar well covered, and, when the juice i£ thoroughly drawn and the apples .arc quite soft, strain them through a jelly- bag. To ever}' quart of juico allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, which should bo cnishoc to small lumps, and put into a preserving pan with the j\iico. Boil these togcthei for rather more th.m }, hour, remove th< scum as it rises, add tlie lemon-juice just- before it is done, and put the jolly intal pots for use. This preparation is u.^ertf for garnishing sweet dishes, and niavbi i turned out for dessert. Timc—'uu' !r