THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 142 Gooseberries, CompOto of eievo, romovinpr tho sago and thymo; then add sufficient pulp of mc;ily pota- toes to causo it to bo sufficienily dry without sticking to tho hand ; add pep- per and salt, and stuff the bird, GOOSEBEEHIES, Compote of. Ingredients.—Syrup; to 1 pint of symp allow nearly a quart of gooseberries. Mode.—Top and tail the goosolierries, ■which should not be very ripe, and i)our over them SDme boiling water; then take them out and plunge them into cold water with which has been mixed atable- Bpoonful of vincgai-, which will assist to keep the finit a good colour. Jlako a pint of syrup, and when it boils drain the gooseberries and put them in ; sim- mer them gently until the fruit is nicely pulped and tender without being broken ; then dish tho gooseberries on a glass dish, boil tho syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, pour over tho gooseberries, and serve cold. Time.—About 5 minutes to boil the gooseberries in the syrup, 3 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient.—A quart of gooseberries for 5 or 6 pci'sons. Seasonable in Juno. GOOSEBEBHY CHIPS. (Useful for Dessert.) Ingredients.—Gooseberries unripe and green, but quite full-grown ; silted loaf sugar. Mode. — Put tho gooseberries, ■when cleaned of tops and tails, into jars, and boil them in a copper till quite soft. To every lb. of pulp put ^ lb. of loaf sugar sifted : the sugar must be stirred in very gently. Then pour out the sweetened pulp on flat dishes, about ^ inch thick, which must be set in the sun to dr^'. When sufficiently dried in the sun, the pulp may be cut into strips, and twisted into any fanciful shapes, bows, &c. Tme for drying, according to the amount of 6un. Sctisonalile at all times. Note.—These chips may be kept for years in tin boxes, if packed quite dry, with layers of paper between the rows. GOOSEBEHRY FOOL. Ir.gredients.—Green gooseberries; to every pint of pulp add 1 pint of milk, or A pint of cream ami pint of milk ; sugar to tasto. il/o(^e.—Cut tho tops and tails off the gooseberries, put them into a jar with 2 tablospoonfuls of water and a little good moist suL^ar ; sot this jar in a sa\ice- pan of boj^ing w'ltor, and let it 'jcU until Gooseberry Jam tho fruit is soft enough to mash. When- done cno-igh, beat it to a pulp, work this pulp through a colander, and stir to every pint the above uroportion of milk, oi equal quantities of milk and cream. As- certain if the mixture is swoot enough, and put in plenty of sugar, or it will not be eatable ; and in mixing the milk and . gooseberries add the former very gradu- ally to these : servo in a glass dish, or in small glasses. This, although a very old- fashioned and homely dish, is, when well made, very delicious, and, if properly sweetened, a very suitable prepamtioD;! ..: for children. Time.—I''rom ^ to 1 houTAfaf Average cost, 6d. per pint, with milkxKt Svffinerd.—A pint of milk and a pint otMte gooseberry pulp for 5 or 6 childroDAbi Seasonable iu Slay and June. lie GOOSEBEBRY JA.M. p Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit al-' low f lb. of loaf sugar; cnrrant-jnico. Mode.—Select red hairy gooseberries;, have them gathered in di-y weather/, ^'^ when quite ripe, without being too s,onX, ' Weigh them; with a pair of sci.ssors ciiti ' off the tops and tails, and to every 6 lbs.- < of fruit have ready A pint of reH-curr.int juice, drawn as for jelly. Put the goose- ■: berries and currant-juice into a pre- r serving-pan,, let them boil tolerably- quickly, keeping them well stirred ; when \ they begm to break, add to them the i sugar, and keep simmering until the jam i becomes firm, carefully skimming and ; stirring it, that it does not burn at the > bottom. It should be boiled rather a i long time, or it will not keep. Put it ; into pots (not too large), let it get per- fectly cold, then cover tho pots dowiw [j with oiled and egged papers. T/?;:?.— '■, About 1 hour to boil the gooseberries in the currant-juice, from ^ to if hour with i the sugar. Avernrje cost, per lb. pot, from Qd. to M. iS(r/(«erti.—Allow lA pint ol fruit for a lb, pot, SeasonahU.—MakM :g„ this in June or J uly. ^ GOOSEBERRY JAM. Ivjredieyits.—To every 8 Ihs. of red," rougli, ripe gooseberries allow 1 cju.art of red-currant juice, 5 Ihs. of loal suga^J.. Mode.—Have the fruit gathered in weather, and cut off tho top< and tiiflW f; Prejiare 1 quart of rod-cnrnint juic ^ thfl same as for red-currant jelly ; put it inta a preserving-pan with tho sugar, and k-jcp stininjj; tuitil the latter is uissol'ad..