THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 70 Charlotte, Rusaa jiiico. Mode.—Make a cake with the flour, nutter, sugar, and baking-powder; mois- ton with the egg and sufficient milk to make it the proper consistency, and bake it in a round tin. When cold, scoop out the middle, leaving a good thickness all round tlie sides, to prevent them break- ing ; take some of the scooped-out pieces, which should be trimmed into neat slices; lay them in the cake, and pour over sufficient raisin-wine, with the addition of a little brandy, if approved, to soak them well. Have ready some apple marmalade, made by recipe ; place a layer of this over the soaked cake, then a layer of cake and a layer of apples; whip the cream to a froth, mixing with it the sugar and lemon-juice ; pile it on the top of the charlotte, and garnish it with pieces of clear apple jelly. This dish is served cold, but may be eaten hot by omitting the cream, and merely gar- nishing the top with bright jelly just before it is sent to table. Time.—1 hour to bake the cake. Avera(je cost, 2s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. CHABLOTTE, Husse (an elegant Sweet Entremet). Ingredients.—About 18 Savoy biscuits, 5 pint of cream, flavouring of vanilla, liqueurs, or wine, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar, h oz. of isinglass. Mode. I'rocure about 18 Savoy biscuits, or ladios'-fingers, as they ai-e sometimes culled ; brush the edges of them with the ■white of an egg, and line the bottom of a plain round mould, placing them like a star or rosette. Stand them upright all round the edge, carefully put them so closely together that the white of egg connects them firmly, and place this case in the oven for about 6 minutes, just to dry the egg. Whisk the cream to a stiff froth, with the sugar, flavouring, and melted isinglass ; fill the charlotte with it, cover with a slice of sponge-cake cut in the shape of the mould; place it in ice, where lot it remain till ready for table ; then turn it on a dish, remove the mould, and serve. 1 tablespoonful of liquem- of any kind, or 4 tablespoonf uls of wine, would nicely flavour the above proportion of cream. For arranging the biscuits in the mould, cut them to the shajjo required, so that they fit in nicely, and level them with the mould at the top, that, wben turned out, there may be Cheese something firm to rest upon. Great care and attention is required in the turning out of this dish, that the cream does not burst the cn.so ; and the edges of the bis- cuits must have the smallest quantity of egg brushed over them, or it would stick to the mould, and so prevent the char- lotte from coming away properly. Time. —5 minutes in the oven. Average cost, ■with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. (id. Suf- ficient for 1 charlotte. Seasonable at any time, CHEESE. Cheese is the curd formed from milk by artificial coagulation, pressed and dried for use. Curd, called also casein and caseous matter, or the basis of cheese, exists in the milk, and not in the cream, and re- quires only to be separated by coagula- tion : the coagulation, however, supposes some alteration of the curd. ]3y means of the substance employed to coagulate it, it is rendered insoluble in water. When the curd is freed from the whey, kneaded and pressed to expel it entirely, it becomes cheese; this assumes a degree of transparency, and possesses many of the properties of coagulated albumen. If it be well dried, it does not change by exposure to the air; but if it contain moisture, it soon putrefies ; it therefore requires some salt to preserve it, and this acts likewise as a kind of seasoning. All om* cheese is coloured more or less, ex- cept that made from skim milk. The colouring substances employed are ar- natto, turmeric, or marigold, all perfectly harmless unless they are adulterated; and it is said that arnatto sometimes contains red lead. Cheese varies in quality and richness according to the materials of which it is composed. It is made—1. Of entire milk, as in Cheshire ; 2. of milk and cream, as at Stilton; 3, of new milk mixed with skim milk, as in Gloucestershire; 4. of skimmed milk only, as in Sufi'olk, Hol- land, and Italy. The principal varieties of cheese used in England are the following: Cheshirt cheese, famed all over Europe for its rich quality and fine piquante flavour. It is made of entire new milk, the cream not, being taken oflf. Gloucester cheese is much milder in its taste than the Cheshire. There are two kinds of Gloucester cheece, single and double •.—Single Gloucester is made of skimmed milk, or ox the milk