243 THE DICTIONARY OJ' COOEEUY. Pears, Baked may be done in tbe same manner, and, if properly prepared, will be found deli- cious. Time.—From 10 to 20 minutes to bring tbe brandy to tbe simmering- point. Seasonable in August and Sep- tember. PEAHS, Baked. Iiigredienls.—12 pears, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 cloves, 10 whole allspice; to every pint of water allow ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the pears into halves, and, should they be very large, into quarters; leave the stalks on, and carefully remove the cores. Place them in a clean baking-jar, with a closely-fitting lid; add to them the lemon-rind cut in strips, the juice of ^ lemon, tha cloves, pounded allspice, and sufficient water just to cover the whole, with sugar in the above proportion. Cover the jar down closelj'', put it into a very cool oven, and bake the pears from 5 to 6 hoxirs, but be very careful that the oven is not too hot. To improve the colour of the frait, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added ; but this will not be found necessaiy, if the pears are very gently baked. Time.— Large pears, 5 to 6 hours, in a very slow oven. Average cost, Id. to 2d. each. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to Januaiy. PEAHS L'ALLEMANDE. Ingredients.—6 to 8 pears, water, su- far, 2 oz. of butter, the yolk of an egg, ^ oz. of gelatine. J/ocZe.—Peel and cut the pears into any form that may be preferred, and steep them in cold water to prevent them turning black; put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and boil them with the butter and enough sugar to sweeten them nicely, until tender; then brush the pears over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle them -svith sifted sugar, and arrange them on a dish. Add the gela- tine to the syrup, boil it up quickly for about 5 minutes, strain it over the pears, and let it remain until sot. The syrup may be coloured with a little prepared cochineal, which would very much im- prove the appearance of the dish. Time. — From 20 minutes to ^ hour to stew the pears; 5 minutes to'boil the syrup. A verage cost, Is. M. Sufficient for a large dish. Seasonable from August to Fe- bruary, Pears, Stewed PEARS, Moulded. Ingredients.—4 large pears or 6 small ones, 8 cloves, sugar to taste, water, a small piece of cinnamon, \ pint of raisin wine, a strip of lemon-peel, the juice of ^ lemon, | oz. of gelatine. Mode.—Peel and cut the pears into quarters; put them into a jar with f pint of water, cloves, cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely; cover down the top of the jar, and bake the pears in a gentle oven imtil perfectly tender, but do not allow them to break. When done, lay the pears in a plain mould, which should be well wetted, and boil ^ pint of the liquor the pears were baked in with the wine, lemon-peel, strained juice, and gelatine. Let these ingre- dients boil quickly for 5 minutes, then strain the liquid wai-m over the pears; put the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is firm, turn it out on a glass dish. Time.—2 hours to bake the pears in a cool oven. Average cost, Is. 3(Z. Sufficient for a quart mould. Seasonable from August to February. PEARS, Preserved. Ingredients.—Jai-gonelle pears; to every lb. of sugar allow ^ pint of water. Mode.—Procure some Jargonelle pears, not too ripe ; put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer them till rather tender, but do not allow them to break ; then put them into cold water. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, skim well, put in the pears, and simmer them gently for 5 minutes. Eepeat the sim- mering for 3 successive days, taking cai-e not to lot the fruit break. The last time of boiling, the syrup should be made rather richer, and the fruit boiled for 10 minutes. When the pears are done, drain them from the syrup, and dry them in the sun, or in a cool oven ; or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried as they are wanted. Time.—h hour to simmer tho pears in water, 20 minutes in the syrup. Average cost, Jd. to 2d. each. Seaso7ialle.—i/lQiit plentiful in September and October, PEARS, Stewed. Ingredients. — 8 largo pears, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, j pint of water, ^ pint of port wine, a few dropn of prepared cochiueaL Mode.—