THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, 278 Quails, to Dress two ingredients well together. Pour over them the boiling water, stir well together, add the rum, brandy, and nutmeg ; mix thoroughly, and the punch ■will bo ready to serve. It is very im- portant in making good punch that aU the ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated ; and to insure success, the pro- cesses of mixing must be diligently attended to. Sufficient.—Allow a quart for 4 persons; but this information must be taken cum gram salis ; for the capa- cities of persons for this kind of beve- rage are generally supposed to vary considerably. ^ QUAILS, to Dress. Ingredients. — Quails, butter, toast. Mode.—These birds keep good several days, and should be roasted without drawing. Truss them in the same man- ner as woodcocks ; roast them before a (>iear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on toast. Tirae.—About 20 mi- nutes. Average cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient, 2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to December. QUAILS. Quails, being ti'ussed and served like Woodcock, may be similarly carved. QUINCE JELLY. Ingredients.—To every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar, il/oie.—Pare and slice the quinces, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient ■water to float them. Boil them until tender, and the fruit is reduced to a pulp; strain off the clear juice, and to each pint allow the above proportion of loaf sugar. Boil the juice and sugar together for about f hour; remove all the scum as it rises, and if the jelly ap- pears firm when a little is poured on a plate, it is done. The residue left on the sieve will answer to mako a common marmalade, for immediate use, by boil- ing it with A lb. of common sugar to every lb. of'pulp. Time.—3 hours to boil tho quinces in water ; 5 hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from M. to \Qd. per lb. pot. Seasonable from August to October. QUINCE MARMALADE. Ingredients.—'lo every lb. of quince pulp' allow ^ lb, of loaf sugar. Mod^,— Eabbit, Boiled Slice the quinces into a preserviD;(-paD i adding sufficient water for them to float place them on tho fire to stew, unti -, reduced to a pulp, keeping them stirrei \ occasionally from the bottom, to preven ; their burning; then pass the pul) ■ 'j through a hair sieve, to keep back th< '■ skin and seeds. Weigh the pulp, and U 1 each lb. add lump sugar in the abovi ■ proportion, broken very smalL Plac p the whole on the fire, and keep it wel stirred from the bottom of the pan witl a wooden spoon, until reduced to a mar malade, which may bo known bj' drop ping a little on a cold plate, when, if i 1 ■ jellies, it is done. Put it into jars whils' ■ hot; let it cool, and cover with pieces o oiled paper cut to the size of tho mouthi: of the jars. The tops of them may b. i ■ afterwards covered with pieces of blad der, or tissue-paper brushed over on botl - sides with the white of an egg. Time.— - 3 hours to boil the quinces without th«. ' sugar ; f hour to boil the pulp with th( ! sugar. Average cost, from 8ci. to 9d. pei: t lb. pot. Sufficient. — Allow 1 pint o: i - sliced quinces for a lb. pot. Seasonabl i \ in August, September, and October. EABBIT, Boiled. Ingredients.—Rabbit; water. Mode. ■ —For boiling, chooserabbits with smooths ; and sharp claws, as that denotes they art: , young: should these be blunt acc ^ rugged, the ears dry and tough, tl. animal is old. After emptying an. skinning it, wash it well in cold water,. ^ and let it soak for about ^ hour in warnu SOILED BABBIT. water, to draw out tho blood. Brir : tho head round to the side, and fas' there by means of a skewer run tin that and tho body. Put tho rabbit lu; sufficient hot water to cover it, let r boil very gently until tender, which will bo in from ^ to # hour, according to iU» ( size and age. Dish it, and smcthor it ■ i either with onion, mushroom, or liver- sauco, or parslcy-and-buttcr ; tho f.'i-iner - i is, however, generally preferred to any f of the last-named saTices. When lirer- eauco is preferred, tlio livw «hovild u«