THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. 177 Lamb, Boast Saddle of iin of lamb, and line the bottom of stowpau just capablo of holding it, nth a few Ih'in slices of fat bacon ; add he remaining ingredients, cover tho leat with a few moro slices of bacon, LOIir OF LAMB. our in the stock, and simmer very gen tly )r 2 hours ; take it up, dry it, strain and jduco the gravy to a glaze, with which laze the meat, and serve it either on ;ewed peas, spinach, or stewed cucum- ers. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, id. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. easonable from Easter to Michaelmas. lAMB, Boast Saddle of. Ingredients. — Lamb ; a little salt. fode.—This joint is now very much in ogue, and is generally considered a nice BADDLE 07 IiAUB. le for a small party. Have ready a ear bi-isk fire ; put down tho joint at a ttle distance, to prevent the fat from !orching, and keep it well basted all SIBS OV LAMB. le time it is cooking. Serve with mint luco and a fresh salad, and send to table rith it either peas, cauliflowers, or spin- ch. Time.—A. small saddle, Ih hour ; a irge one, 2 hours. Average cost, IM. to 3. per lb. Svfficienl for 5 or G persons. kasonaOle from Easter to Michaelmas. Note.—Loin and ribs of lamb are oasted in tho same manner, and served rith tho same sauces as tho abovo. A loin rill take about 1^ hour; ribs, from 1 to ^ hour. Landrail, Boast LAMB, Boast Shoulder of. Ingredients. — Lamb ; a little salt» Mode.—Have ready a clear brisk fire, and put down the joint at a sufficient distance from it, that the fat may not burn. Keep constantly basting until done, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and send mint sauce to table with it. Peas, spinach, or cauliflowers are the usual vegetables served with lamb, and also a fresh salad. Time.—A shoulder of lamb rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, IQd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB, Shoulder of. Stuffed. Ingredients.—Shoulder of lamb, force- meat, trimmings of veal or beef, 2 onions, h head of celery, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 quart of stock. Mode.—Take the blade-bone out of a shoulder of lamb, fill up its place ■with forcemeat, and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon under and over the lamb, and add the remaining ingre- dients. Stew very gently for rather more than 2 hours. Reduce tho gravy, with which glaze the meat, and serve with peas, stewed cucumbers, or sorrel sauce. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, \Qd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LATTDEAIL, Eoast, or Corn- Crake. Ingredients.—3 or 4 birds, butter, fried bread crumbs. 3Iode.—Pluck and draw the birds, wipe them inside and out with damp cloths, and truss them in the fol- lowing manner: Bring the head round LANDRAILS. under the wing, and the thighs close to the sides ; pass a skewer through them and the body, and keep the legs straight. Roast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on fried bread crumbs, with a tureen of brown gravy. When liked, bread-sauce may also be sent to table with thom. Time.— 12 to 20 minutes. Average cost,—Soldona