THE DTOTTONAEY Of COOKERY. 155 Hare, Jugged ■ 1, allow 4k hours. AveraffP. cost, 7s. ufficient tori or 8 persons. Seasonable om September to the end of February. :aRE, Jugged (a Quicker and more Economical Way). Ingredients.—1 hare, a bunch of sweet irbs, 2 onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, whole allspice, h teaspoonful of black pper, a strip of femon-peel, thickfiuing butter and flour, 2 tahlespoonfuls of iishroom ketchup, \ pint of port wine. ode.—Wash the hare nicely, cut it up to joints (not too large), and flour and own them as in the preceding recipe ; en put them into a stewpan with the rbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, d lemon-peel; cover with hot water, d when it boils, carefully remove all 3 scum, and let it simmer gently till ider, which will be in about 1| hour, longer, .should the hare be very old. ke out the pieces of hare, thicken tlie ivy with flour and butter, add the ;chup and i)ort wine, let it boil fur )ut 10 minutes, strain it throug^h a ve over the hare, and serve. A few sd forcemeat balls should be added at 1 moment of serving, or, instead of ing them, tiiey may bo stewed in the vy, about 10 minutes before the hare wanted for table. Do not omit to serve -currant jelly with it. Time.—Alto- her 2 hours. Average cost, 5s. 6d. Hcieni for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable n September to the end of February. Tote.—Should there be any leit, re- m it the next day by putting the 9, &c., into a covered jar, and placing jar in a saucepan of boiling water ; method prevents a great deal of td. lBE, Potted (a Luncheon or reakfast Dish). igredients.—1 hare, a few slices of )n, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 4 es, \ teaspoonful of whole allspice, 2 ots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to J, 1 pint of water, 2 glasses of sherry. e.—Skin, empty, and wa.sh the hare ; t down the middle, and put it into a pan, with a few slices of bacon under over it; add the remaining ingredi- , and stow very gently until the hare ^ndcr, and the flesh will separate «y from the bones. When done •1 Lch, take it up, remove the bones, • pound the meat, wUli. l/ie bacon, in a I Hare, Roast mortar, until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Should it not be suffi- ciently seasoned, add a little cayenne, salt, and pounded mace, but be careful that these are well mixed with the other innredients. Press the meat into pot- ting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep in a dry place. The liquor that the hare was stewed in, should be saved for hashes, soups, &c. &c. Tine.—About 2h hours to stew the hare. Seasonable from September to the end of February. HARE, Roast. Ingredients.—Hare, forcemeat, a little milk, butter. Choosing and. Trussing.— Choose a young hare ; which may be known by its smooth and sharp claws, and by the cleft iu the lip not being much spread. To be eaten in perfection, it must hang for some time ; and, if properly taken care of, it may bo kept for several days. It is better to hang without being paunched ; but should it be previously emptied, wipe the inside every day. and sprinkle over it a little pepper and giuL'-er, to prevent the musty tasie which long keeping in the damp occa- sions, and also which affects the .stuffing. After it is skinned, wash it well, and soak for an hour in warm water to dr.aw out the blood ; if old, let it lie in vinegar for a short time, but wash it well afterwards in several waters. ^lake a forcemeat, wipe the hare dry, fill the belly with it, aud sew it up. Bring the BOAST HARE. hind and fore legs close to the body to- wards the head, run a skewer through each, fix the head between the shoul- ders by means of another skewer, ,ind bo careful to leave the ears on. Put a string round the borly from skewer to skewer, and tie it above the back. Mode.—The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire when it is first laid down, or the outside will become dry and hard before the inside is done. Baste it well with n)ilk for a short time, and afterwards with butter ; and par- ticular attention must be paid to the basting, so as to preserve the meat on the back juicy aud nutritive. When it