THE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 91 Currant Jolly, White to swGotcn it nicely. As this jam is not worth storing away, but is only for immodiato eating, a smaller proportion of sugar than usual will bo found enough: it answers very well for chil- dren's puddings, or for a nursery pre- serve. Time.—From f to 1 hour to extract the juico; '20 minutes to ^ hour to boil the jolly. Average cost,' from 8d. to lOc^. per ^-Ib. pot. Sufficient — 8 quarts of currants will make fi'om 10 to 12 pots of jelly. Seasonable.—Make this in July. JVole.—Should the above proportion of sugar not be found sufficient for some tastes, add an extra ^ !b. to every pint of juice, making altogether lib. CimRANT JELLY, WMte. Ingredients.—White currants; to every pint of juice allow |lb. of good loaf sugar. Mode.—Pick the currants from the stalks, and put them into a jar; place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer until the juice is well drawn from the fruit, which will be in from ^ to 1 hom\ Then strain the currants through a fine cloth or jelly- bag ; do not squeeze them too much, or the jelly will not be clear, and put the juice into a very clean preserving-pan, with the sugar. Let this simmer gently over a clear fire until it is firm, and keep stirring and skimming until it is done; then pour it into small pots, cover them, and store away in. a dry place. Time.— hour to draw the juice ; ^ horn* to boil the jelly. Average cost, from Sd. to-lOc^. per ^-Ib. pot. Sufficient.—From 3 pints to 2" quarts of fruit should yield 1 pint of juice. Seasonable in July and August. CURRANT PUDDING, Boiled (Plain and Economical). Ingredients.—I lb. of flour, ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of currants, milk. Mode.— Wash the currants, dry them thoroughly, and pick away any stalks or grit; chop the suet finely; mix all the ingredients together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding into a stifif batter; tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for 3.J hours; serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted uugar. Time.—Zl hours. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 7 or 8 jpersona. Seasonable at any time. Currant and Raspberry Tart CURRANT PUDDING, Black oi Red. Ingredients.—1 quart of red or blacl currants, measured with the stalks, ^ lb of moist sugar, suet crust or butter eras (see recipes for Crusts). Mode.—llnke with I lb. of flour, either a suet crust o. butter crust (the former is usually made) butter a basin, and line it with par of the crust; add the currants, whicl should be stripped from the stalks, an( sprinkle the sugar over them; put th cover of the pudding on; make th edges very secure, that the juice doe not escape; tie it down with a floure-. cloth, put it into boihng water, and bo: from 2^ to 3 hours. Boiled without basm, allow ^ hour less. We hav given rather a large proportion of si gar; but we find fruit puddings are much more juicy and palatable whe well sweetened before they are boiled besides being more economical. A fe raspberries added to red-currant puc ding aro a very nice addition ; about pint would be sufficient for the abo\ quantity of fruit. Fruit puddings at very delicious if, when they are tume out of the basin, the crust is browne with a salamander, or put into a vei hot oven for a few minutes to colour i this makes it crisji on the surfac Tiine.—2 A to 3 hours; without a basi 2 to 2.J hours. Average cost, in fi season, Sd. Sufficient for 6 or 7 person Seasonable in June, July, and August. CURRANT AND RASPBERR TART, Red. Ingredients.—Ih pint of picked cu rants, h pint of raspberries, 3 heape tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, ^ lb short crust. Mode.—Strip the currau from the stalks, and put them into deep pie-dish, with a small cup placi in the midst, bottom upwards ; aild tl raspberries and sugar; place a border paste round the edge of the dish, cov with crust, ornament the edges, ai bak^ from i to 3 hour; strew sor sifted sugar over oefore being sent table. This tart is more generally servi cold than hot. Time.—^ to f hoi Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or persons. Seasonable iii Juno, July, ai August. iVote.—In tarts of this description cai fully avoid wasliing the frait.