THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 165 Jellies ain until quite firm. Time.—,j hour to )il tlio isiiiijlass ami water; about 10 inutes to stir the mixture in the jug. veraffe cost, with the best isinglass, 9d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. usonaUe at any time. SLLIES Are not the nourishing food they were one time considered to be, and many ainent physicians are of opinion that ey are less digestible than the flesh, or uscular part of animals; still, when idulated with lemon-juice and fla- ured with wine, they are very suitable some convalescents. Vegetable jelly a distinct principle, existing in fruits, iich possesses the property of gelatiniz- g when boiled and cooled ; but it is a inciple entirely different from the ge- tine of animal bodies, although the me of jelly, common to both, some- nes leads to an erroneous idea on that bject. Animal jelly, or gelatine, is lie, whereas vegetable jelly is rather alogous to gum. Liebig places gelatine ry low indeed in the scale of usefulness. I says, "Gelatine, which by itself is teless, and when eaten, excites nau- possesses no nutritive value ; that, en when accompanied by the savoury stituents of flush, it is not capable of pporting the vital process, and when ded to the usual diet as a substitute plastic matter, does not increase, but the contrary, diminishes the nutritive Jue of the food, which it renders insuf- ient in quantity and inferior in qua- It is this substance which is most iquently employed in the manufacture the jellies supplied by the confec- ner; but those prepared at home from Ves' feet do possess some nutrition, d are the only sort that should be en to invalids. Isinglass is the purest riety of gelatine, and is prepared from ) sounds or swimming-bladders of cer- n fish, chiefly the sturgeon. From whiteness it is mostly used for mak- f blancmange and similar dishes. iJLLIES, Bottled, Ho-w to Mould. Uncork the bottle; place it in a sauce- a of hot water until the jelly is reduced a liquid state; taste it, to ascertain lether it is sufiicicntly flavoured, and lot, add a little wine. Pour tho jelly o moulds which have been soaked in iter; let it set, and tuni it out by Jelly-bag, how to make a placing the mould in hot water for a minute; then wipe the outside, put a dish on the top, and turn it over quickly. The jelly should then slip easily away from the mould, and bo quite firm. It may bo garnished as taste dictates. JELLY, Isinglass, or Gelatine. (Substitutes for Calf's Feet.) Ingredients.—3 oz. of isinglass or gela- tine,' 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Put tho isinglass or gelatine int,o a sauce an with the above proportion of cold wat r; bring it quickly to boil, and let it boil very fast, until the liquor is reduced one- half. Carel'ully remove the scum as it rises, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and it will be ready for use. If not re- quired very clear, it may be merely strained through a fine sieve, instead of being run through a bag. Rather more than 5 oz. of isinglass is about tho proper quantity to use for a quart of strong calf s-fect stock, and rather moro than 2 07. for the same quantity of fruit juice. As isinglass varies so much in quality and strength, it is difficult to give the exact proportions. The larger the mould, the stifibr should be the jelly ; and where there is no ice, more isiugla&s must be used than if the mixture were frozen. This forms a stock lor all kinds of jellies, which may be flavoured m many ways. Time.—\h hour. Sufficient, with wine, syrup, fruit, &c., to fill two moderate- sized moulds. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Tho above, when boiled, should bo perfectly clear, and may be mixed warm with wine, flavom-ings, fruits, &c., and then run through tho bag. JELLY-BAG, How to make a. The very stout flannel called double- mill, used for iron- ing-blankets, is the best material for a jelly-bag: those oi home manul'acture are the only ones to be relied on for thoroughly clear- ing the jelly. Care should bo taken that the seam of the bag be stitched twice, to secure it against unequal filtration. Tho iELix-BAO. most convenient mode of using the bag