THE DICTIONAUY OF COOKERY. 1G8 Jelly, to make the Stack for and remove every particle of scum as it rises. When it is well skimmed, boil it very gcnily for C or 7 hours, or until the liquor is reduced rather more than half; JBLLT-MOULD. then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and put it in a cool place to set. As the liquor is strained, measure it, to ascertain the proportion for the jelly, allowing something for the sediment and fat at the top. To clarify it, carefully remove all the fat from the top, pour over a little warm water, to wash away any that may remain, and wipe the jelly with a clean cloth ; remove the jelly from the sediment, put it into a saucepan, and, supposing the quantity to be a quart, add to it 6oz. of loaf sugar, the shells and well-whisked whites ol 5 eggs, and stir these ingredients together cold ; set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to xcarni. Let it boil about 10 minutes after it rises to a head, then throw in a teacupful of cold water ; let it boil 5 minutes longer, then take the saucepan off, cover it closely, and let it remain h hour near the fire. Dip the jelly-bag into hot water, wring it out quite dry, and fasten it on to a stand or the back of a chair, which must be placed near the fire, to prevent the jelly from setting before it has run through the bag. Place a basin underneath to receive the jelly ; then pour it into the bag, and should it not be clear the first time, run it through the bag again. This stock is the S,')undation of all really good jellies, ■which may bo varied in innumerable •ways, by colouring and flavouring with liqueurs, and by moulding it with fresh and preserved fruits. To insure the jelly being firm when turned out, h oz. of isin- glass clarified might bo ad'ded to the above pro|)ortion of stock. Substitutes for calf s feet are now O-equently used in making jellies, which lessen the expense ftnd trouble in preparing this favourite June-Bills of For© dish, isinglass and gelatine being two ol the principal materials employed ; bul although they may look as nicely as jclliet made from good stock, they are never 6< delicate, having very often an unpleasaut flavour, somewhat resembling glue, pur ticularly when made with gelatine. Tiriie —About 6 hours to boil the feet for thi stock ; to clarify it,—^ hour to boil, ; hour to stand in the saucepan covered Average cost.—Calfs feet may be pur chased for 6d. each when veal is in ful season, but more expensive when it it scarce. Sufficient.—'4 calf's feet shoulc make 1 quart of stock. Seasonable fron March to October, but may be bad al. the year. JOHN DORY. Ingredients.—^ lb. of salt to each ga! Ion of water. Mode.—This fish, whicl is esteemed by most people a great deliii cacy, is dressed in the same way as « turbot, which it resembles in firmness* but not in richness. Cleanse it thorouf>hh and cut off the fins ; lay it in a tish kettle, cover with cold water, and ad( salt in the above proportion. Bring i i gradually to a boil, and simmer gentlj for \ hour, or rather longer, should this fish be very largo. Serve on a hot kin, and garnish with cut lemon parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or s' sauce, and plain melted butter, shoi be sent to table with it. Time.—A' the water boils, \ to h hour, accor to size. Average cost, Ss. to bs. Sea able all the year, but best from Sep ber to January. J iVo^e.—Small John Dory are very go«* baked. JUNE-BILLS OF FARE. Dinner for 18 persons. First Course. B s- o Q ABparflgiis Sonp, removed by Crimped Salmon. Tase of Flowers. Torniicelli Sotip, r<"moved by AVhitebait. o CO I