119 THE DICTIONAIIY Of COOKEM. February, Plain Family Dinners '^irst Cojfrse.—Ox-tail soup; cod k la me ; fried soles. Entrees.—Lark pud- g; fowl scollops. Second Course.— ast leg of mutton ; boiled turkey and ery sauce ; pigeon pie ; small ham, led and garnished; vegetables. Third i.rse.—Game, when liked ; tartlets of pberry jam ; vol-au-vent of rhubarb ; iss cream ; cabinet pudding; broccoli 1 sea-kale; dessert. 'BRUAIIT, Plain Family Din- ners for. haiday.—1. Ox-tail soup. 2. Roast :f, Yorkshire pudding, broccoli, pota- s. 3. Plum-pudding, apple tart. 3ese. Monday.—1. Fried soles, plain melted -ter, and potatoes. Cold roast beef, shed potatoes. 3. The remains of m-pudding cut in slices, warmed, and ved with sifted sugar sprinkled over Cheese. Tuesday.—1. The remains of ox-tail ip from Sunday. 2. Pork cutlets h tomato sauce; bashed beef. 3. lied jam pudding. Cheese. Vednesday.—1. Boiled haddock and in melted butter. 2. Rump-steak Iding, potatoes, greens. 3. Arrow- t, blancmange, garnished with jnm. Hiursday. — 1. Boiled leg of pork, ens, potatoes, pease pudding. 2. jile fritters, sweet macaroni. 'riday.—1. Pea-soup made with liquor t the pork was boiled in. 2. Cold k, mashed potatoes. 3. Baked rice Iding. Saturday.—1. Broiled herrings and stard sauce. 2. Haricot mutton. Macaroni, either served as a sweet Iding or with cheese. lunday.—1. Carrot soup. 2, Boiled of mutton and caper sauce, mashed nips, roast fowls, and bacon. 3. mson tai-t made with bottled fruit, afia pudding. \fom.day.—l. The remainder of fowl ried and served with rice; rump- aka and oyster sauce, cold mutton. Rolled jam pudding. Tuesday.—1. Vegetable soup made h liquor the mutton was boiled in on iday. 2. Roast surloin of beef, York- re pudding, broccoli, and potatoes. 3. 3e8e. Vednesday.—1. Fried soles, melted .ter. Cold beef and mashed potatoes : Fennel Sauce if there is any cold mutton left, cut it into neat slices and warm it in a little caper sauce. 2. Apple tart. Thursday.—1. Boiled rabbit and onion sauce, stewed beef and vegetables, made with the remains of cold beef and bones. 2. Macaroni. Friday.—1. Roast leg of pork, sage and onions and apple sauce, greens and potatoes. 2. Spinach and poached eggs instead of pudding. Cheese and water- , cresses. _ Saturday.—1. Rump-steak and kidney pudding, cold pork and mashed potatoes. 2. Baked rice pudding. FEBRITAHY, Things in Season. Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp; cod may be bought, but is not so good, as in January; crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, place, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, tur- bot, whiting. Meat. — Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal. Poultry. — Capons, chickens, duck- lings, tame and wild pigeons, pullets with eggs, turkeys, wild-fowl, though now not in full season. Game. — Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipes, woodcock. Vegetables.—Beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), Brussels sprouts, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucum- bers (forced), endive, kidney-beans, let- tuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spi- nach, turnips—various herbs. Fruit.— Apples (golden and Dutch pippins), grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears (Bon ChriSuen), walnuts, dried fruits (foreign), such as almonds and raisins; French and Spanish plums; prunes, figs, dates, crystallized preserves. FENNEL SAUCE, for Mackerel. Ingredients.—1 pint of melted butter, rather more than 1 tablespoonful of chopped fennel. Mode.—MakQ the melt- ed butter very smooth, chop the fennol rather small, carefully cleansing it from any grit or dirt, and put it to the butter when this is on the point of boiling. Simmer for a minute or two, and servo in a tureen. Time.—2 minutes. Average cost, id. SuJHcient tc serce with 5 or' 6 mackerel.