THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKEEY. 301 Salmon Cutlets ■ fcnions into small pieces, and fry them of < 1 pale brown in- the butter ; add all the i jigredients but the salmon, and simmer yently till the onion is tender, oceasion- \\ly stirring the contents; cut the salmon into small squai-e pieces, carefully take \way all skin and bone, lay it in the stewpan, andletitgradually heat through; but do not allow it to boil long. Time.— I hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold hsh, 9d. SALMON CUTLETS. Cut the slices 1 inch thick, and season them with pepper and salt; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a separate piece, with their ends twisted; broil gently over a clear fire, and serve with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time. —5 to 10 minutes, SALMON", Pickled. Ingredients.—^a\mQn, h oz. of wholo pepper, ^ oz. of whole allspice, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, 2 bay-leaves, equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Mode.—After the fish comes from table, lay it in a nice dish with a cover to it, as it should be excluded from the air, and take away the bone ; boil the liquor and vinegar with the ether ingredients for 10 minutes, and let it stand to get cold ; pour it over the salmon, and in 12 hours this will be fit for the table. Time,—10 minutes. SALMON, Potted. Ingredients.—Salmon, pounded mace, cloves, and pepper to taste ; 3 bay-leaves, \Vo. butter. Mode.—^kin the salmon, and clean it thoroughly by wiping with a cloth (water would spoil it); cut it into square pieces, which rub with salt; let them remain till thoroughly drained, then lay them in a dish with the other ingredients, and bake. When quite done, drain them from the gravy, press into pots for use, and, when cold, pour over it claritied butter. Tiriie,—}^ hour. SALMON, to Curo. This process consists in splitting the fish, rubbing it with salt, and then put- ting it into pickle in tubs provided for the purpose. Here it is kept for about Salsify, to Dress six weeks, when it is taken out, pressed and packed in casks, with layers of salt. SALMON, to Help. First run the knife quite down to tho bono, along the side of the fish, from a to h, and also from c to d. Then help the thick part lengthwise, that is, in the direction of the lines from a to &; and the thin part breadthwise, that is, in the direction of the lines from e to /, as shown in the engraving. A slice of the thick part should always be accompanied by a smaller piece of the thin from the belly, where lies the fat of the fish. Note. — Many persons, in carving salmon, make the mistake of slicing the thick part of this fish in the opposite direction to that we have stated ; and thus, by the breaking of the flakes, the beauty of its appearance is destroyed. SALSIFY, to Dress. Ingredients.—Salsify; to each ^ gallon of water fdlow 1 heaped tablespoontul of salt, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of their outside peel; cut them into pieces about 4 inches long', and, as they are peeled, throw them into water with which has been mixed a little lemon-juice, to pre- vent their discolouring. Put them into boiling_ water, with salt, butter, and lemon-juice in the above proportion, and lot them boil rapidly until tender j try them with a fork j and, when it pene- trates easily, thoy are done. Drain the salsify, and servo with a good white sauce or French melted butter. Time.—Z^ to £0 minutes. Seasonable in winter. Note.—This vegetable may be also boiled, sliced, and fried in batter of a nice brown. When crisp and a good colour, thoy should be served with fried parsley in tho centre of the dish, and a little line salt sprinkled over the salsify.