880 PhiloBophy of Housekeeping, before serving flour and salt it well. Dish and serve with gravy and bre. crumbs, and sond to table hot and quickly, '■' i- ROAST HARE. Ingredients.—Hare, forcemeat, a little milk, butter, f Choosing' and Trussing.—Choose a young hare, which may be known by. ? smooth and sharp claws, and by the cleft in the lip not being much spread. be eaten in perfection, it must hang for some time ; and, if properly taken a- of, it may be kept for several days. It is better to hang without being paunche f- bxxt should it be previously emptied, wipe the inside every day, and sprinkle o- - it a little pepper and ginger, to prevent the musty taste which long keeping. ^' the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuflSng. After it is skinned, Wi; ^ well, and soak for an hour in warm water to draw out the blood ; if old, let it in vinegar for a short time, but wash it well afterwards in several waters. Mc i ^ a forcemeat, wipe the hare dry, fill the belly with it, and sew it up. Bring > hind and fore legs close to the body towards the head, run a skewer throu each, fix the head between the shoulders by means of another skewer, and careful to leave the ears on. Put a string round the body from skewer to skew and tie it above the back. F. Mode.—The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire when it is fi" y. put down, or the outside will become dry and hard before the inside is do:: „ Baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter; and p; ^ ticular attention must be paid to the basting, so as to preserve the meat the back juicy and nutritive. When it is almost roasted enough, flour the ha j. and baste well with butter. When nicely frothed, dish it, remove the skewe ,■ and send it to table with a little gravy in the dish, and a tureen of the sar , Red-currant jelly must also not be forgotten, as this is an indispensable acco paniment to roast hare. For economy, good beef dripping may be substitut for the milk and butter to baste with ; but the basting must be continued withe intermission. If the liver is good, it may be parboiled, minced, and mixed with \ stuffing; but it should not be used unless quite fresh. BOILED FOWL OR CHIOKEW. \ Ingredients, - A fine fowl, water. I Choosing and Trussing.—In choosing a fowl for boiling, it should be borne mind that those that are not black-legged are generally much whiter wb ^ dressed. Pick, draw, singe, wash, and truss it in the following manner, wi- • out the liver in the wings; and, in drawing, be careful not to break the gr ' bladder :—Cut off the neck, leaving sufficient skin to skewer back. Cut the ft - off to the first joint, tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the bel twist the wings over the back of the fowl, and secure the top of the leg and t bottom of the wing together by running a skewer through them and the boc