The DICTlONAHY OF COOKERY. 317 Truffles au Naturel tablespoonful of minced parsley, a very- little finely minced garlic, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice. Mode.—After cleansing and brush- ing the truflBes, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a baking-dish, on a seasoning of oil, pepper, salt, parsley, garlic, and mace in the above proportion. Bake them for nearly an hour, and, j ust before serving, add the lemon-juice, and send them to table very hot. Time.— Nearly 1 hour. Average cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. TKTTFFLES AU NATUBEL. Ingredients.—Truffles, buttered paper. Mode.—Select some fine truffles ; cleanse them, by washing them in several waters with a brush, until not a particle of sand or grit remains on them; wrap each truffle in buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for quite an hour; take off the paper, wipe the truffles, and serve them in a hot napkin. Time.—Ihour. Average cost.—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. TTJKBOT. In choosing turbot see that it is thick, and of a yellowish white; for if of a bluish tint, it is not good. The tui-bot- kettle, as will be seen by our cut, is made ■J L EDOT-KETTLE. difTerently from ordinary fish kettles, it being less deep, whilst it is wider, and more pointed at the sides ; thus exactly answering to the shape of the fish which it is intended should be boiled in it. TUBBOT, Boiled. Ingredients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Choose a middling- Bizcd turbot; for they are invariably the most valuable: if vei-y large, the meat will be tough and thready. Three or four hours before dressing, soak the fish in salt and water to tako off the slime ; then thoroughly cleanse it, and with a knife make an incision down the middle Turbot & la Creme of the back, to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking. Rub it over with lemon, and be particular not to cut off the fins. Lay the fish in a very clean turbot-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and salt in the above propor- tion. Lot it gradually come to a boil, and skim veiy carefully ; keep it gently simmering, and on no account let it boil fast, as the fish would have a very- unsightly appearance. When the meat separates easily from the bone, it is done ; then take it out, let it drain well, and dish it on a hot napkin. Rub a little lobster spawn through a sieve, sprinkle it over the fish, and garnish with tufts of parsley and cut lemon. Lobster or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should bo sent to table with it. Time.—After the water boils, about ^ hour for a large turbot; middling size, about 20 minutes. Average cost,—large turbot, from IO5. to I2s. ; middling size, from 12s. to. 15s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, .1 middling-sized tm-bot for 8 persons. TURBOT, to Help. First run the fish-slice do-wn the thick- est part of the fish lengthwise, quite through to the bone, and then cut hand- some and regular slices across the fish until all the meat on the upper side is helped. When the carver has removed all the meat from the upper side of the fish, the backbone should be raised, put on one side of the dish, and the under side helped as the upper. TIIB.BOT A LA CREME. Ingredients. — The remains of cold turbot. For sauco, 2 oz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste. Mode.—Clear away all skiu and bone from the flesh of the turbot, which should be done when it comes from table, as it causes less waste when trimmed hot. Cut the flesh into nice square pieces, as equally as possible ; put into a stewpan the butter, let it melt, and add the cream and seasoning; let it just simmer for one minute, but not boil. Lay in the fish to warm, and servo it garnished with crofltons or a paste border. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of cold salmon may- be dressed in this way, and the above mixture may be served in a vol-aii-vent.