THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 2 auchoTies, 1 onion; 1 small buticb of i.ihing to lobster salad. 1S7 Lobster (h. la Mode Francaise) ]\'o(e.—l'oUed lobster may be used Id, or as & fricassee with cream sauce. 3BSTEB la Mode Prancaise). Imjredlents.—l lobster, 4 tablespoon- s of white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of !am, iHniniled mace, and cayenne to ;te; bread cruml)s. Tl/oc/e—Pick the ■lit 'from the she!!, and cut it up into all square pieces; put the stock, !am, and seasoning into a stewpah, :1 the lobster, and let it simmer gently 6 minutes. Serve it in the shell, ich must be nicely cleaned, and have Dor.ler of puff-paste; cover it with jad crumbs, place small pieces of butter sr, and brown before the fire, or with alamander. rime.—;i hour. Average t, 2s. 6tf. Seasonable at any time. )BSTER SALAD. b>gredunls.—\ hen lobster, lettuces, live, small salad (whatever is in sea- i), a little chopped beetroot, 2 hard- led eggs, a few slices of cucumber, r dressing, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of made Istard, the yolks of 2 eggs ; cayenne 1 salt to taste; \ teaspoonful of shovy sauce. These ingredients should mixeil perfectly smooth, and form a amy-looking sauce. Mode. — Wash I salad, and thoroughly dry it by ildng it in a cloth. Cut up the let- ses and endive, pour the dressing on im, and lightly throw in the small id. Mix all well together with the Wings from the body of the lobster; k the meat from the shell, cut it up 0 nice square pieces, put half in the \({, the other half reserve for gar- hing. Separate the yolks from the ites of 2 hard-boiled eggs; chop the ites very fine, and rub the yolks ough a sieve, and afterwards the coral m the inside. Arrange the salad itly on a class dish, and garnish, first h a row of sliced cucumber, then with pieces of lobster, the yolks and tes of the eggs, coral, and beetroot Bed alternately, and arranged in ill scyiarato bunches, so that the co- 1 I S contrast nicely. A verage cost, 'd.i. 6d. ' rieii.l for 4 oi P persons. Semonahfe April to October; may bo had all oar, but salad is scarce and expeu- ■1 winter, ,/^.—A. few crayfish make a pretty Lobster Soup LOBSTER SAUCE, to serve with Turbot, Salmon, Brill, &c. (very Good.) Ingredients.—1 middling-sized hen lobster, ^ pint of melted butter, 1 table- spoontul of anchovy sauce, ^ oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace when liked, 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of cream. Mude.—Choose a hen lobster, as this is indispensable, in order to render this sauce as good as it ought to be. Pick the meat from the shells, and cut it into small square pieces ; put the spawn, which will be found under the tail of the lobster, into a mortar with h oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth; rub it through a hair- sieve, and cover up till wanted. Make ^ pint of melted butter; put in all the ingredients except the loliRter-meat, and well mix the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, as the colour would immediately be spoiled; for it must be rpmembered that this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it is intended to be served with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and rubbed through a sieve without butter) should be saved to garnish with ; but as the goodness, flavour, and appearance of the sauce so much depend on having a proper quan- tity of spawn, the less used for garnishing the better. Time.—1 minute to simmer. AveJ-age cost, for this quantity, 'Zs. Sea- sonable at any time. Sufficient to serve with a small turbot, a brill, or salmon for 6 persons. A^ote.—Melted butter made with milk, will be found to answer very well for lobster sauce, as by employing it a nice white colour will be obtained. Less quantity tnan the above may be made by using a very small lobster, to which add only h pint of melted butter, and season as above. Where economy is desired, the cream may be dispi-nsed with, and the remains of a cold lobster left from talilo, may, with a little care, be converted into a very good sauce. LOBSTER SOUP. IjigredienUt.— S large lobsters, or 8 small ones ; the crumb of a French roll,