Philosophy of Housekeeping. in the turnips, theu the potatoes, then put the tart in the oven. While the turnips and potatoes are boiling sho should clear the soup, and add the vegetables thereto. At a quarter to six she should take up the turnips, and, if quite tender, mash them, adding the butter and pepper and salt; put them back in the saucepan, and place it at the side of the fire to keep warm. The gravy for the mutton should then be prepared. At six precisely the soup should be served, and, having handed round the potatoes, the servant should return to the kitchen and dish the mutton and vegetables, which she will get done just by the time the family are ready for them. By following this course she will bo able to serve all her dinner punctually and satisfactorily. 2i2. TO LAY THE DINNER-TABLE. {See page Iviii.) 24S. Everything should be as clean as possible. The bread-plates free from crumbs, the butter-dish unsmeared with butter, the salt-cellars bright and filled with fine salt, the cruet-stand quite bright and clean, the mustard-pot half filled with fresh mustard, the vinpgar-bottle filled with vinegar, and the other bottles with whatever sauces may be used. If dessert and wine be taken, the dessert will be placed down the middle of the table, in which case the cruet-stand will be put on the sideboard, and a vase of flowers substituted for it on the table. The wine will be placed at the corners of the table, inside the salt-cellars and table-spoons; if there are but two decanters one will be placed at the right hand top corner and one at the right hand bottom corner. 244. When dessert and wine are used, four dessert plates and f oxir dessert knives will have to be brought up and placed on the sideboard. Four additional table- spoons will also have to be put on the table at the other corners. Each person must have as many glasses as there are different kinds of wines. If only sherry and claret, a sherry and claret glass to each person ; if sherry, claret, and port, a sherry glass, clai-et glass, and port glass to each person. 245. If nuts in the shells form part of the dessert, a pair of nut-crackers shoul-j be placed on each dish of nuts, 246. If the servant adopts a particular system in bringing up and layinp- all these various things, and adheres to it regularly each day, she will find that it may all be accomplished in a very short space of time, and nothing be foreotton. 247. The tab.'o laid and the cooking completed, her next work will be to— DISn UP THE DINNER, 248. Five minutes before beginning this she should put four soup-plates in the oven, or in t'lo plate-warmer if there bo one, to warm.