THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 253 Pillau Fowl e time for boiling depends, of course, the size of the fish; but a middling- 3d pike will take about ^ an hour, •ve with Dutch or anchovy sauce, and in melted butter, rme.—According size, to 1 hour. Average cosi.—Sel- n bought Seasonable from September March. ;LIiA.U fowl, based on M. Soy- er's Kecipe (an Indian Disli). 'ngredients.—\ lb. of rice, 2oz. of but- , a fowl, 2 quarts of stock or good )th, 40 cardamum-seeds, ^ oz. of cori- ier-seed, \ oz. of cloves, | oz. of ipice, \ oz. of mace, | oz. of cinnamon, )z, of peppercorns, 4 onions, 6 thin ies of bacon, 2 hard-boiled eggs. icZc—Well wash 1 lb. of the best tna rice, put it into a frying-pan with I butter, which keep moving over slow fu-e until the rice is lightly iwned. Truss the fowl as for boiling, 1 it into a stewpan with the stock broth ; pound the spices and seeds roughly in a mortar, tie them in iece of muslin, and put them in with 1 fowl. Let it boil slowly until it learly done ; then add the rice, which uld stew until quite tender and almost '; cut the onions into slices, sprinkle m with flour, and fiy, without break- them, of a nice brown colour. Have dy the slices of bacon curled and led, and the eggs boiled hard. Lay fowl in the form of a pyramid upon a J, smother with the rice, garnish with bacon, fried onions, and the hard- led eggs cut into quarters, and serve y hot. Before taking the rice out, love the spices. Time.—^ hour to IV the fowl without the rice; ^ hour h it. Average cost, 4s. del. Sufficient 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any e. NEAPPLE CHIPS. ngredients. — Pineapples; sugar to ;e. Mode.—Pare and slice the fruit ily, put it on dishes, and strew over lenty of pounded sugar. Keep it in lOt closet, or very slow oven, 8 or 10 s, and turn the fruit every day until ; then put the pieces of pine on tins, place them in a quick oven for 10 lutes. Let them cool, and store them ly in dry Vjoxcs, with paper between h layer. Tme.—& to 10 days. Sea- Pineapple, Preserved sonable.—Foreign pines, in July land August. PINEAPPLE FBITTEKS (an elegant disti). Ingredients. — A small pineapple, a small wineglassful of brandy or liqueur, 2 oz. of sifted sugar; batter as for apple fritters, which see. Mode.—1\na elegant dish, although it may appear extrava- gant, is really not so if made when pine- apples are plentiful. We receive them now in such large quantities from tho West Indies, that at times they may be purchased at an exceedingly low ra,te; it would not, of course, be economical to use the pines which are grown in our English pineries for the purposes of fritters. Pare the pine with as little waste as possible, cut it into rather thin slices, and soak these slices in the above proportion of brandy or liqueiu* and pounded sugar for 4 hours; then make a batter the same as for apple fritters, substituting cream for the milk, and using a smaller quantity of flour; when this is ready, dip in the pieces of pine, and fry them in boiling lard from 5 to 8 minutes; turn them when suffi- ciently brown on one side, and, when done, drain them from the lard before the fire, dish them on a white d'oyley, strew over them sifted sugar, and serve quickly. Time.—5 to 8 minutes. Aee- rage cost, when cheap and plentifiil. Is. 6d. for the pine. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in J uly and August. PINEAPPLE, Preserved. Ingredients. — To every lb. of fruit, weighed after being pared, allow 1 lb, of loaf sugar ; ^ pint of water. Mode.— The pines for making this preserve should be perfectly sound but ripe. Cut thens into rather thick slices, as the ftnit shrinks very much in the boiling. Pare off the rind carefully, that none of the pine be wasted ; and, in doing so, notch it in and out, as the edge cannot be smoothly cut without great waste. Dis- solve a portion of the sugar in a preserv- ing-pan with I pint of water; when this is melted, gradually add the remainder of the sugar, and boil it until it forms a clear syrup, skimming well. As soon as this is the case, put in the pieces of pine, and boil well for at least ^ hour, or until it looks nearly transparent. Put it into pots, cover down when cold, and store