THE DIOTIONAEY OF COOKERY. SI Beef Oollops I 0 sugar, salt, and saltpetre, and let it I main in the pickle for a week or ten J ,ys, turning and rubbing it every day. J len bone it, remove all the gristle and E e coarse skin of the inside part, and I rinkle it thickly vrith parsley, hei-bs, : ice, and seasoning in the above pro- ii 'i-tion, taking care that the former are i iclyminced, andthe latter wellpounded, I :>l\ the meat up in a cloth as tightly r possible; bind it firmly with broad 5 pe, and boil it gently for 6 houi-s. J: amediately on taking it out of the pot it it under a good weight, without iloing it, and let it remain until cold, lis dish is a vei'y nice addition to the cakfast-table. Time.—6 hours. Avei-- cost, for this quantity, 4s. Season- le at any time. Note.—During the time the beef is in •kle it should be kept cool, and regu- iy nibbed and tiu'ued every day. 4bf COLLOPS. Iiigredients. — 2 lbs. of rump-steak, lb. of butter, 1 pint of gravy (water ly be substituted for this), salt and '>er to taste, 1 shalot, finely minced, kled walnut, 1 teaspoonful of ca- . Mode.—Have the steak cut thin, I divide it in pieces about 3 inches' \g; beat these with the blade of a ifo, and dredge with flour. Put ;na in a frying-pan with the butter, I let them fry for about 3 minutes ; ;u lay them in a small stewpan, and ir over them the gravy. Add a piece 1 utter kneaded with a little flour, put the seasoning and all the other ingre- nts, and let the whole simmer, but ; lioil, for 10 minutes. Serve in a hot r red dish. Time.—10 minutes. Aver- ost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 ns. Seasonable at any time. BEEF CAKVIlSra. ^Beef, Aitchbone of. —A boiled ohbone of beef is not a diflScult joint sarve, as will be seen on reference to accompanying engraving. Byfollow- with the knife the direction of the Beef Carving line from 1 to 2, nice slices will be easily cut. It may be necessary, as in a round of beef, to cut a thick slice oflE the outside before commencing to serve. Beef, Brisket of. — There is but little description necessary to add to show the carving of a boiled brisket of beef beyond the engraving here inserted. The only point to be observed is, that the joint should be cut evenly and firmly quite across the bones, so that on its reappearance at table it should not have a jagged and untidy look. Beef, Bibs of.—This dish resembles the sirloin, except that it has no fillet or undercut. As explained in the recipes, the end piece is often cut ofij salted and boiled. The mode of carving is similar to that of the sirloin, viz., in the direction of the dotted hne from 1 to 2. This joint will be the more easily cut if the plan be pursued which is suggested in carving the sirloin; namely, the inserting of the knife immediately between the bone and the meat, before commencing to cut it into slices. All joints of roast beef should be cut in even and thin slices. Horseradish, finely scraped, maybeser^'edas agarnish; but horseradish sauce is preferable for eating with the beef. Beef, a Bound of.—A round of beef is more easily carved than any other joint of beef, but, to manage it properly, a thin-bladod and very sharp knife is