THE DICTIONAHY OF COOKERY. 299 Salad, Summer and cut the remainder very finely into small thin slices. Mix with the cabbage the above salad ingredients, and let it remain for two days, when it will be fit for use. This salad will keep very well for a few days. The quantity of the ingredients may of com'se be a little varied, according to taste. Time.—2 days. Average cost, from 2c?. to 3rf, each. Seasonable in July and Augusli, SALAD, Summer. Ingredients.—3 lettuces, 2 handfuls of mustard- and-cress, 10 young radishes, a few slices of cucumber, il/orfe.—Let the herbs be as fresh as possible for a salad, and, if at all stale or dead-lcoking, let them lie in water for an hour or two, which will very much refresh them. SALAD IK Bowt. thoroughly by swinging them gently in a, clean cloth. With a silver knife, cut the lettuces into small pieces, and the radishes and cucumbers into thin slices; arrange all those in- gredients lightly on a dish, with the mustard-and-cress, and pour under, but not over the salad, either of the salad dressings, and do not stir it up until it is to be eaten. It may be garnished with hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, sliced cucumbers, nasturtiums, cut vegetable- flowers, and many other things that taste will always suggest to make a pretty and elegant dish. In making a good salad, care must bo taken to have the herbs freshly gathered, and tliorourjidy drained before the sauce is added to them, or it will bo watery and thin. Young spring onions, cut small, are by many persons considered an improve- ment to salads; but, before these are added, the cook should always consult the taste of her employer. Slices of cold meat or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and quickly-mado summer luncheon-dish; or cold fish, flaked, will also be found exceedingly nice, mixed with it. Average cost, 9d for a Balad for 6 or 6 persons; but more ex- pensive when the herbs are forced. Salmon (a la Genevese) Sufficient for 5 or 6 persona. Seasonable from May to September. SALAD, "Winter. Ingredients. — Endive, mnstard-and- cress, boiled beetroot, 3 or 4 hard-boiled, eggs, celery. Mode.—The above in- gredients form the principal constituents of a winter salad, and may be converted into a very pretty dish, by nicely con- ' trasting the various colours, and by tastefully garnishing it. Shred the celery jRito thin pieces, after having carefully washed and cut away all worm-eaten pieces; cleanse the endive and mustard- and-cress free from grit, and arrange these high in the centre of a salad-bowl or dish; garnish with the hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, both of which should be cut in slices ; and pour into the dish, but not over the salad, either of the salad dressings. Never dress a salad long before it is required for table, as, by standing, it loses its freshness and pretty crisp and light appearance ; the sauce, however, may always be prepared a few hours beforehand, and when required to use, the herbslaid lightly over it. Average cost, ^d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons. Sitfficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from the end of September to March. SALMON {h, la Genevese). Ingredients.—2 slices of salmon, 2 chopped shalots, a little parsley, a small bunch of herbs, 2 bay-leaves, 2 carrots, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of Madeira, ^ pint of white stock, thickening of butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of essence of an- chovies, the juice of 1 lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—^nh the bottom of a stewpan over with butter, and put in the shalots, herbs, bay- leaves, carrots, mace, and seasoning; stir them for 10 minutes over a clear fire, and add the Madeira or sherry; simmer gently for h hour, and strain through a sieve over, the fish, which stew in this gravy. As soon as the fish is sufficiently cooked, take away all the liqvior, except a little to keep the salmon moist, and put it into another stewpan ; add the stock, thicken with butter and flour, and put in the anchovies, lemon- juice, cayenne, and salt; lay the salmon on a hot dish, pour over it part of tho sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Time,—11^ hour, Average cost