The Children. new flannel, and some bandage strips should also be placed close at hand. Nurse should be provided with two enamelled saucepans, with a block-tin kettle with neat jars, containing sugar, pearl barley, Embden grits, mustard, linseed, and linseed-meal. She should keep a bottle of camphorated spirits, and of ipecacuanha wine ; also among her medicines she should have a store of night- lights, a food-warmer, and some candles; a tin of plain biscuits may also be placed in her charg;e. 138. Both Nurse and Mother should inspect the stores once a week, and see that nothing is wanting at any time that would be required at night in a hurry. A.n old worn knife or a palette knife and some spoons are required for plasters and poultices, and should be at hand. 139. Children require to run and skip, dance and jump, and to take good walks. Children's nursery hours should be as follows :—All out of bed at seven, all Jressed and sitting down to breakfast at eight, nine o'clock should see the little troop out of doors in garden, in park, or on country roads. Two hours' walk in the morning and two in the afternoon is necessary in fine weather. After the iOth of October all children under six should be indoors after three o'clock ; this ule should be continued until spring days again come round. 140. Dinner at 1, tea at 4.30, bed at 6 or 7, according to the ages of the jhildren. 141. A glass of cold water morning and night is the best medicine they can ake. 142. The Morning Bath for healthy children of four or five years of age should 3e of cold water in summer and tepid in winter. It is an excellent plan to fill a arge brown pickle-jar with bay salt and Tidman's sea-salt in equal parts, and to ill up with soft water, and tie a muslin cap over the jar; pour off the water ivory morning into the bath, adding fresh until all the salt is melted, when we nust begin again. A hip-bath should be used for the morning bath, and the ihild rapidly sluiced all over, and then enveloped in a large well-aired sheet of ine huckaback, not less than two yards square ; rub quickly but not roughly, ind see that the little limbs glow before you part with them. Then quTckly Iress the child in woll-aired clothes, and brush the hair, clean the teeth, and hear he morning prayer before setting him to table. 143. Breakfast should be ready, for many children are so constituted as to be Jross, because they feel ill, before breakfast: such children cannot bear the sinking eel.ng caused by want of food. If such there be in a family, and the number of ittle ones prevents the breakfast being ready for all du-ectly, give the child a srust of broad or a biscuit, and it will play happily until summoned to its sreakfast.