THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 321 Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of and is that part of the meat which gives flavour and perfume to the stock. The flesh of old animals contains more osma- zome than that of young ones. Brown meats contain more than white, and the former make the stock more fragrant. By roasting meat, the osmazome appears to acquire higher properties; so, by putting the remains of roast meats into your stock-pot, you obtain a better flavour. Albumen is of the nature of the white of eggs; it can be dissolved in cold or tepid water, but coagulates when it is put into water not quite at the boiling- point. From this property in albumen, it is evident that if the meat is put into the stock-pot when the water boils, or after this is made to boil up quickly, the albumen, in both cases, hardens. In the first it rises to the surface, in the second it remains in the meat, but in both it prevents the gelatine and osma- zome from dissolving; and hence a thin and tasteless stock will be obtained. It ought to be known, too, that the coagu- lation of the albumen in the meat always takes place, more or less, according to the size of the piece, as the parts farthest from the surface always acquire that degree of heat which congeals it before entirely dissolving it. Bones ought always to form a com- ponent part of the stock-pot. They are composed of an earthy substance,—to which they owe their solidity,—of gela- tine, and a fatty fluid, something like marrow. Tioo ounces of them contain as much gelantine as one pound of meat; but in them, this is so incased in the earthy substance, that boiling-water can dissolve only the surface of whole bones. By breaking them, however, you can dissolve more, because you multiply their surfaces; and by reducing them to pow- der or paste, you can dissolve them entirely; but you must not grind them dry. We have said that gelatine forms the basis of stock; but this, though very nourishing, is entirely without taste; «.nd to make the stock savoury, it must contain osmazome Of tliis, bones do not contain a particle ; and that is the reason why stock made entirely of them *» not liked ; but when you add meat to the broken or pulverized bones, the osmazomo contained in it makes the stock ufficiently savoury . In concluding this part of our subject, the following condensed hints and direc- Soup-making, the Chemistry, &c. of tions should be attended to in the economy of soup-making:— Beep makes the best Stock ; veal stock has less colour and taste ; whilst mutton sometimes gives it a tallowy smeU, far from agreeable, unless the meat has been previously roasted oi broiled. Fowls add very little to the flavour of stock, unless they be old and fat. Pigeons, when they are old, add the most flavour to it; and a rabbit or partridge is also a great improvement. From the freshest meat the best stock ia obtained. Ip THE Meat be Boiled solely to make stock, it must be c it up into the smallest possible pieces ; l ut, generally speaking, if it is desii-ed to have good stock and a piece of savoury meat as well, it is necessary to put a rather large piece into the stock-pot, say suffi- cient for two or three days, during which time the stock will keep well in all weathers. Choose the freshest meat, and have it cut as thick as possible; for if it is a thin, flat piece, it will not look well, stnd will be very soon spoiled by the boiling. Never wash Meat, as it deprives its surface of all its juices ; separate it from the bones, and tie it round with tape, so that its shape may be preserved, then put it into the stock-pot, and for each pound of meat, let there be one pint of water; press it down with the hand, to allow the air, which it contains, to escape, and which often raises it to the top of the water. Put the Stock-pot on a Gentle Fire, so that it may heat gradually. The albumen will first dissolve, afterwards coagulate; and as it is in this state lighter than the liquid, it will rise to the sur- face, bringing with it all its impurities. It is this which makes the scum. Tho rising of the hardened albumen has the same oflect in clarifying stock as the white of eggs; and, as a rule, it may be said that the more scum there is, the clearer will be the stock. Always take care that the fire is very regular. Remove the Scum when it rises thickly, and do not let the stock boil, because then one portion of the scum will be dissolved, and the other go to tho bottom of the pot; thus rendering it very difficult to obtain a clear brcjh. If the fire is regular, it will not be ne- cossary to add cold water in order to mako tho scuip rise j but if the fire is too 11