17 THE DICTIONARY OF COOKEEY. Artichokes, Mashed Jerusalem Si fjident,—10 for a dish for 6 persons. iso7iahle,—from September to June. ^jITICHOKES, Mashed Jerusalem. ingredients.—To each | gallon of water 1 oz. of salt, 15 or 16 artichokes, I 02. butter, pepper and salt to taste. Voce.—BoU the artichokes as in the ceding recipe until tender; drain 1 press the water from them, and jcat them up with a fork. "When tho- •oughly mashed and free from lumps, )ut them into a saucepan with the butter nd a seasoning of white pepper and salt; eep stirring over the fire until the itichokes are quite hot, and serve. V pretty way of serving Jerusalem arti- liokes as an entremets, or second course ish, is to shape the artichokes in the arm of a pear, and to serve them covered ith white sauce, garnished with Brus- ;ls sprouts. Time.—About 20 minutes. I rerage cost, 2d. per lb. Sufficient lor 6 or persons. Se<isonable from September J June. .BTICHOKE (Jerusalem) SOUP, sometimes called Palestine Soup (a White Soup). Ingredients.—3 slices of lean bacon or im, I a head of celery, 1 turnip, 1 lion, 3 oz. of butter, 4 lbs. of artichokes, l)int of boiling milk, or ^ pint of boiling eam, salt and cayenne to taste, 2 lumps sugar, 2i quarts of white stock. 'iide.—Put the bacon and vegetables, liich should be cut into thin slices, into 0 stewpan with the butter. Braise cse for i of an hour, keeping them well 1 rred. Wash and pare the artichokes, 1 after cutting them into thin slices, I them, with a pint of stock, to the her ingredients. When these have utly stewed down to a smooth pulp, it in the remainder of the stock. Stir well, adding the seasoning, and when lias simmered for five minutes, pass it mgh a strainer. Now pour it back ) the stewpan, let it again simmer five imtes, taking care to skim it well, and r it to the boiling milk or cream, i vo with small sippets of bread fried butter. Time.—1 hour. Average cost r quart, Is. 2d. Seasonable from Juno October. Sufficient for 8 persons. 3PARAGUS, Boiled. ngredients. —To each J gallon of water Asparagus-Peas allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt: asparagus. Mode.—Asparagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water , yet to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape BOILED ASPAEAGUS. the white part of the stems, beginning from the head, and throw them into cold water; then tie them into bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one way, and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length; put them into boiling water, with salt in the above ASPABAQUS TONGS. proportion; keep them boiling quickly un- til tender, with the saucepan uncovered. When the asparagus is done, dish it upon toast, which should be dipped in the water it was cooked in, and leave the white ends outward each way, with the points meeting in the middle. Serve with a tureen of melted butter. Time.— 15 to 18 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, in full season, 2s. 6d. the 100 heads. Sitfficient.—Allow about 50 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.— May be had forced from Januaiy, but cheapest in May, June and July. ASPAEAGITS-PEAS (Entremets, or to be served as a Side Dish with the Second Course). Ingredients.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 oz. of butter, a small bunch of jjars- ley, 2 or 3 green onions, flour, 1 lamp of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, salt. Mode.—Care- fully scrape the asparagus, cut it into pieces of an equal size, avoiding that which is in tho least hard or tough, and throw them into cold water. Then boil tho asparagus in salt and water untU three-parts done; take it out, drain, and placo it on a cloth to dry tho moistiu-e away from it. Put it into a stewpan with tho butter, parsley, and onions, and shako over a brisk fire for 10 minutes. Dredge in a littlo flour, add the sugar,