50 THE DICTIONAEY OF COOKERY. Browning, for Stock Note.—The thick parts of the middle of tho back are the best slices in a tur- HOW TO CAEYB A BEILt. bot; and the rich gelatinous skin cover- ing the fish, as well as a little of tJie thick part of the fins, are dainty morsels, and should be placed on each plate. BROWNING, for Stock. Inaredients.—2 oz. of powdered sugar, and ^ a pint of water. Mode.—Place the sugar in a stewpan over a slow fire until it begins to melt, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon until it becomes black, when add the water, and let it dissolve. Cork closely, and use a few drops when required. Note.—In France, burnt onions are made use of for the purpose of browning. As a general rale, the process of brown- ing is to be discouraged, as apt to impart a slightly unpleasant flavour to tho stock, and consequently all soups made from it. BBOWNINa for Gravies and Sauces. The browning for stock answers equally TTcll for sauces and gravies, when it is absolutely necessary to colour them in this manner; but where they can bo made to look brown by using ketchup, wine, browned flour, tomatoes, or any coloured flauco, it is far preferable. As, howovor, Bubble-and-Squeak in cooking so much depends on appear- ance, perhaps it would be as well for the inexperienced cook to use the artificial means. When no browning is at hand, and you wish to heighten the colour of your gravy, dissolve a lump of sugar in an iron spoon close to a sharp fire ; when it is in a liquid state, drop it into the sauce or gravy quite hot. Care, however, must be taken not to put in too much, as it would impart a very disagreeable flavour to the preparation. BRUSSELS-SPROUTS, BoHed. Ingredients.—To ezioh. i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Clean the sprouts from insects, nicely wash them, and pick off any dead or discoloured leaves from the outsides ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly over a brisk fire until tender; di'ain, dish, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, or with a maitre d'hotel sauce poured over them. Another mode of serving them is, when they are dished, to stir in about 1^ oz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. They must, however, be sent to table very quickly, as, being so very small, this vegetable soon cools. Where the cook is very expeditious, this vegetable when cooked may be arranged on the dish in the form of a pineapple, and so served has a very pretty appearance. Time.— from 9 to 12 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, Is. id. per peck. Sufficient.—Allow between 40 and 50 for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Novem- ber to March. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. [Cold Meat Cookery.] Inaredienis, —A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pep- per and salt to taste. Mode. — Fry the slices of beef gently in a little but- ter, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover with fried greens. The greens may be pre- pared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till tender, well drained, minced, and placd, till quite hot, in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper and salt. When the ouion is Uono, it is ready to servo- Time- -Alto-