THE DICTIONARY OF COOKERY. 135 Prittors, Indian Sahteb.—To dress with sriuce in a iccpan, repeatedly moving it about. 'amis.—Tammy, a sort of open cloth sieve through which to strain broth I sauces, so a? to rid them of small ICS, froth, &:c. "OUHTE.—Tart. Fruit pie. 'rousser.—To truss a bird; to put ether the body and tie the wings and Ehs, in order to round it for roasting or ling, each being tied then with [lack- fcad, to keep it in the required form. [OL-AU-VENT.—A rich crust of very I puff-paste, which may be filled with lous delicate ragofits or fricussees, of I flesh, or fowl. Fruit may also be Lsed in a vol-au-vent, llTTERS, Indian. Wjredi'enis.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, ■ng water, the yolks of 4 eggs, the ftcs of 2, hot lard or clarified dripping, I Mode. — Put the flour into a basin, I pour over it sufficient boiling water make it into a stiff" paste, taking care ■tir and beat it well, to prevent it ■ng lumpy. Leave it a little time to I and then break into it (wilkout mirj them at first) the yollfs of 4 eggs mhe whites of 2, and stir and beat all ■together. Have ready some boiling iBor butter; drop a dessertspoonI'ul of ,ftr in at a time, unci fry the fritters ■ light brown. Thny should rise so n as to be almost like balls. Serve ■dish, with a spoonful of preserve or Aalade dropped in between each ■r. This is an excellent dish for a ■» addition to dinner, if a guest un- ■itcdly arrives, it being so easily and ■•■ly made, and it is always a great ■rite. Time. — From 5 to 8 minutes w the fritters. A verai/e cost, e.\clu- •f the jam, 5d. Sufjicieid for 4 or 5 ■ns. ticasonablb at any time. SETTERS, Plain. mredientt.—S oz. of flour, 3 eggs, J ,Mf milk. Mode.—Mix the flour to a ■;Bh batter with a small quantity of f Bilk ; stir in the ct/gs, which should "■11 whisked, and then the remainder ,B milk; beat the whole to a per- ''B smooth batter, and should it be ^Bnot quite thin enough, add two or tal'lcspoonfuls more milk. Have ■ a frying-pan, with plenty of boil- J^Brd in it; drop in rather more thaiJ PKspoouful at a time of the battel. Fruit, to Bottle Fresh and fry the fritters a nice brown, turning them when sufhcieiitly cooked on oua side. Di ain tliein well from the greasy moisture by placing them upon a piecu of blotting-paper before the fiie; dish them on a white d'oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and send to table with them a cut lemon and plenty of pounded sugar. Time.—From 6 to 8 nii- nutes, A verage cost, id. SiiJHcient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. FRITIT, to Bottle Fresli. (Very useful in Winter.) Ingredients. — Fresh fruita, such as currants, raspberries, cherries, goose- berries, plums of ail kinds, damsons, &c. ; wide-mouthed gliss bottles, now corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—Let the fruit he full grown, but not too ripe, and gathered in dry weather. Pick it off the stalks without bruising or breaking the skin, and reject any that is at all blemished: if gathered in the damp, or if the skins are cut at all, the fruit will mould. Have ready some perfectly dvji glass bottles, and some nice neiv soft corks or bungs; burn a match in eacli bottle, to exhaust the air, and quickly place the fruit iu to be preserved ; gently cork the bottles, and put them in a very cool oven, where let them remain until the fruit has shrunk away a fourth part. Then take the bottles out; do not open them, but immediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and cover them with melted resin. If kept in a dry place, tho fruit will remain good for mouths; and on this principally depends the success of the preparation ; for if stored away in a place that is in the least damp, tlio fruit will soon spoil. Time.—From 5 to 6 hom's in a very slow oven. FRUIT, to Bottle Fresh. Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fniit, such as currants, cherries, gooseberries, all kinds of plums, &c. ; wide-mouthed glass bottles, new corks to fit them tightly. Mode.—The fruit must bo fuU- gro^vn, not too ripe, and gathered on a tine day. Let it be carefully picked an I put into tho bottles, which must be clcai\ and perfectly dry. Tie over tho tops ot tho bottles pieces of bladder ; stand tho bottles in a largo pot, copper, or boiler, , mth cold water to reach to their necks ; kindle a fire under, let tho water boil, I and aa the bladders begin to riso an4