Philosophy of Housekeeping, 187. In doing this, she will be particular not to omit dusting the legs of tb various pieces of furniture, and lifting and dusting under as well as round all th small articles on chimneypiece, sideboard, side-table, and bookshelves, also tlj window-ledges and sills. 188. She will then arrange the various articles of furniture in their place replace the rug and fender, and leave the room, shutting the door after her aga' 189. BHUNSWICK BLACK. Ingredients.—1 lb. of common asphaltum, J pint of linseed oil, 1 quart of of turpentine. Mode.—Melt the asphaltum, and add gradually to it the other two ingredient Apply this with a painter's brush, and leave it to become perfectly dry. T grate will need no other cleaning, but will merely require dusting every daj', an occasionally brushing with a dry blacklead brush. This is, of course, when n fires are used. When they are required, the bars, cheeks, and back of the gra' will need blackleading in the usual manner, 190, POLISH FOR BRIGHT STOVES AND STEEL ARTICLES Ingbedients.—1 tablespoonful of turpentine, 1 ditto of sweet oil, emer powder. Mode.—Mix the turpentine and sweet oil together, stirring in sufficient eme powder to make the mixture of the thickness of cream. Put it on the artic with a piece of soft flannel, rub off quickly with another piece, then polish wi a little emery powder and clean leather. TO CLEAN BOOTS. 191. She should then clean any boots unavoidably left since the night befor after which, the last of the morning's " dirty work" being done, the servant gc upstairs and knocks at the diffei-ent bedroom doors to "call" the famil supplying thoso who require it with warm water, which—not to empty h kettle—she should draw from the boiler, where, by this time, it will be qui warm enough, except for shaving-water, which must be boiling and taken fro the kettle. She should then go to her own room, wash her face and hands, b her hair, and put on a clean cap and apron, 192. Her next work is— TO LAY THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. 193. The requisites for this for a family of four, will be found on page xlvii. Th she should collect on her tray, placing them carefully, the large plates one o another, and the small plates on them ; the four saucers one over another,