xxxi To Sweep the Breakfast-Hoora. 182. Having laid dovra a coarse cloth over the carpet in front of the fireplace, she will first clear away all the cinders and ashes from the grate, putting them in the cinder-pail. This is a japanned tin pail, with a wire sifter inside and a closely Biting top. In this the cinders are sifted, and reserved for use in the kitchen or for the copper-fire, the ashes alone being thrown away. She will then blacklead the grate, first laying on the blacklead with a soft brush, then brushing it agorously with a hard one, finishing it off with a polishing brush. No blacklead a to be put upon any portions of the grate that may be of polished steel; these should be rubbed with a clean dry leather and putty powder. If any spots of •ust appear, a paste made of fresh lime and oil should be at once applied, and •enewed until it has disappeared ; the fire-irons are to be cleaned in the same way f bright, and then rubbed with the leather; all the bright-steel portions of the ender should be rubbed with the leather; emery-paper must on no account ba ised to bright steel. 183. She will then light the fire. Fire-lighting, however simple, is an operation ■equiring some skill. A fire is readily made by laying a few cinders at the bottom In open order ; over this a few pieces of paper, and over, that again eight or ten pieces of dry wood; over the wood, a course of moderate-sized pieces of coal, faking care to leave hollow spaces between for air at the centre, and taking care I lay the whole well back in the grate, so that the smoke may go up the chimney Ind not into the room. This done, fire the paper with a match from below, and, ■ properly laid, it will soon burn up; the stream of flame from the wood and laper soon communicating to the coals and cinders, provided there is plenty of I ir at the centre, 184. A new method of lighting a fire is sometimes practised with advantage, the re lighting from the top and burning down, in place of being lighted and burning I from below. This is arranged by laying the coals at the bottom, mixed with I few good-sized cinders, and the wood at the top, with another layer of coals ad some paper over it; the paper is lighted in the usual way, and soon bums jwn to a good fire, with some economy of fuel, it is said, 185. That being d one, she will clean the hearthstone, bringing up for the pur« ose a small pail of hot water, a house-flannel, and piece of hearthstone. Having ell washed the hearthstone, she will whiten it by rubbing it while wet with the sarthstone ; but in doing this she must be very careful to let none of the water »uch the grate, fender, or fire-irons. Then, having removed all her brushes and 5xes, the dust-pan, pail, house-flannel, and stone, and having shut the parlour- Dor, she will sweep the hall, using for it the house-sweeping brush, and not the irpet-broom. She will also sweep the halldoor-steps, and, taking out the door- ats, beat and shake them well, 186. Then she will return to the breakfast-room, where the dust will be by lis time settled, and dust it all carefully.