877 Boiled B-abbit. ROAST GOOSE. Ingeedients.—Goosej 4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, J lb. of bread-crumbs, 1 h OH. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. t'hoosing and Trttssint/.—Select a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet: if these latter are red, the bird is old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few days: by so doing, the flavour will be very much impi'oved. Pluck, singe, draw, and carefully wash and wipe the goose; cut ofif the neck cl jse to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over ; cut off the feet at the first joint, and separate the pinions at the first joint. Beat the breast-bone ffat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer through the under part of each wing, and Laving drawn up the legs closely, put a skewer into the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, bring it close down to the side-bone, run it through, and do the same to the other side. Now cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin suEBciently large for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the seasoning. Mode.—Make a sage-and-onion stuffing of the above ingredients; put it into the body of the goose, and secure it firmly at both ends, by passing the rump through the hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the skin of the neck to the back ; by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down to a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and roast from to.2 hours, according to the size. Eemove the skewers, and serve with a tureen of good gravy, and one of well-made apple-sauce. Should a very highly-flavoured seasoning be preferred, the onions should not be parboiled, but minced raw: of the two methods, the mild seasoning is far superior. A ragout, or pie, should be made of the giblets, or they may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be spoiled by coming flattened to table. As this is rather a difficult joint to carve, a large quantity of gravy should not bo poured round the goose, but sent in a tureen. BOILED RABBIT. Ingredients.—Rabbit, water. Mode.—For boiling, choose rabbits with smooth and sharp claws ; as that denotes they are young: should these be blunt and nigged, the ears dry aud tough, the animal is old. After emptying and,skinning it, wash it well in eold water, and let it soak for about \ of an hour in warm water to draw out the blood. Bring the head round to the side, and fasten it there by means of a skewer run through that and the body. Put the rabbit into sufiicient hot water to cover it, and let it boil very gently until tender, which will be from Ho f hour, according to its size and age. Dish it, and smother it either with'onions, mushroom, or liver sauce, or parsley-and-butter ; the former is, however, generally preferred to any of the last-named sauces. When liver-sauce is preferred, the liver should be boiled for a few minutes, and minced very finely, or rubbed through a sieve before it is added to the sauce.