Housekeeping Accounts. wiped with a soft cloth, to have the needle set properly, the stitch and tension in unison, and the cotton or silic suitable to both the needle and the fabric In working upon dressed longcloth, it is well to soap the seams, as one would do in hand-sewing, to avoid breaking our hand-sewing needles, but the easiest mode is to ask the housemaid to wash out the longcloth, when torn into lengths, with plenty of soap and water, and to iron it out smoothly for cutting out; this will give a very pleasant softness to the work, and allow its being stitched very nicely. In working in thin sleezy fabrics, some machines draw the work in with the teeth of the feed-box; this is remedied by placing strips of paper below the work and stitching through all; the paper tears away very easily afterwards. Another fault common to machine-workers is the over-quick pace at which they drive the machine, a pace at which they can scarcely guide the work or see the stitches. It is the nature of women when riding and driving to go very fast; and so we drive on our machines, and are surprised that we cannot keep our stitching as even as we should like to see it. To cure this rapid driving we must practise working the machine slowly; braiding is good practice for this, and teaches one to manage a machine better than any other kind of work, 61. Hand-machines are exceedingly convenient when really good, as the Little Wanzer, &c. The work can be done easily and far more quickly than by hand, and it is very pleasant to sit at the table at work as in hand-sewing. 62. Attention to House-linen should comprise the careful inspection and repair of the muslin curtains, which should be "roughed" in October. These should be iajned, and lace sewn on where accidentally removed. Long curtains half worn- mt will make capital short muslin blinds; be sure to choose small designs in niying your curtains, if you destine them to this use in the future. Make wide lems if you wish brass rods to pass through them for window screens, and use )ateDt Valenciennes lace for trimming them; it washes admirably and wears irell. Stair-covers and holland dmggets, too, must be mended by prudent lousewives. HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUJSTTS. 63. One of the greatest trials of the young wife is the Account-book. This ook becomes a perfect bugbear to some ladies, who are yet perfectly capable of eeping a neat and regular debtor and creditor account if they could be once ■;arted with a regvilar system of account-keepiug. 6-t. Girls, whose monetary responsibilities have begun and ended with their uarterly allowance, find housekeeping accounts very difficult to manage pro- erly ; and although experienced matrons may smile at those words, a lesson easy account-keeping is not without value. 65. We must state at the beginning that altlio.igh we know of many other ethods of keeping accounts, yet we believe our method to be so easy, that we ■n conscientiously recommend it to housgsvivcs,