APPENDICITIS. 342 extremely seldom that any foreign body is met with in the appendix either free or forming the nucleus of a concretion. In one instance, however, we have found an ordinary pin in the lumen of the tube. The bacterial infection, which is the essential factor in appen- dicitis, is liable to spread from the mucous membrane to the other coats of the tube, and finally to involve the peritoneum. The anatomical changes in the tube are analogous to those observed in a strangulated loop of bowel, and vary with the virulence of the invading organism from a simple adhesive inflammation to one attended with necrosis and sloughing. The Fig. 66—Gaugrene of Distal Portion of Ap- the appendix is most fre- pendix—concretion in proximal portion. quently the result of ne- separation of the slough. This may take place at the apex, particularly when the meso-appendix does not extend to the tip; or on the convex border, usually opposite the point at which the mesentery stops ; or it may occur at the junction with the caecum. Perforation frequently takes place over a concretion, and the re- sulting aperture may be large enough to allow the concretion as well as the infective material pent up in the lumen to escape. The serous coat is involved in all but the mildest forms of inflammation of the appendix, and the gravity of the disease depends on the manner in which the surrounding peritoneum is able to contend with the infection. The formation of fibrinous adhesions represents a successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to circumscribe and encapsulate the infection. The adhesions involve the great gangrene usually affects one or more circumscribed areas, and the necrotic patches are sharply defined from the living tissue around (Fig. 6G). Sometimes the entire organ undergoes ne- crosis, and appears as a blackish-green, flaccid structure completely separ- ated from its connections, and scarcely to be recog- nised as an appendix. The gangrenous process may even spread to the wall of the ciecum. Perforation of crosis and subsequent