139 RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. times palpable from the outside, tilling up the hollow behind the angle of the jaw. In this situation also the lymphatic glands may be felt. These are often enlarged out of all pro- portion to the size of the tumour. The disease tends to spread locally, causing increasing difficulty in swallowing and breathing. Phe patient gradually loses strength and may die from exhaustion induced by pain and insomnia, from haemorrhage, or from septic pneumonia. Treatment.—In early cases an attempt may be made to L'emove the disease. This can seldom be done through the mouth, and is most satisfactorily accomplished through an incision carried along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Temporary resection of the lower jaw, preliminary tracheotomy, rnd ligation of the external carotid artery, are measures which greatly facilitate the operation. In advanced cases it is only possible to relieve the patient’s suffering by palliative measures. Antiseptic mouth-washes are used to diminish the foetor of the breath and the risk of septic pneumonia, and morphin to relieve pain. The nasal tube, or even a gastrostomy, may be necessary to enable the patient to take sufficient food, and tracheotomy may be called for to relieve dyspnoea. Retro-pharyngeal Abscess.—The chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess associated with tuberculous disease of the cervical vertebrae, in which the pus accumulates behind the prevertebral fascia, has already been described. The acute form of abscess occurs in the space between the prevertebral fascia and the wall of the pharynx. The inflamma- tion usually begins in one of the lymphatic glands which occupy this space, and rapidly ends in suppuration, which spreads to the surrounding cellular tissue. It is most common in children luring the first and second years. The patient may be con- valescent after one of the eruptive fevers attended with inflam- mation of the bucco-pharyngeal mucous membrane—such as scarlet fever, measles, or chicken-pox—or may suffer from nasal excoriations or coryza. In some cases the irritation of dentition is the only discoverable cause. In infants the condition is usually very acute, and is attended with fever, rigors, vomiting, and often with convulsions. The head is held fixed, and usually twisted to one side, and there is pain on attempting to move it. The child has great pain on swallowing, and refuses all food. The saliva dribbles from the mouth. There is marked dyspnoea and a short, dry cough. The back of the throat is red and swollen, and a localised