ABSCESS OF THE SPLEEN. 485 spleen may be ruptured by comparatively slight violence, as for example by a stroke with a stick or a blow with the fist. There is nothing characteristic in the clinical features. In addition to shock and pain the chief symptoms are those which result from haemorrhage into the abdominal cavity. When the larger vessels are torn, the haemorrhage may be so abundant as to prove rapidly fatal. If the patient survive, the blood which is poured into the peritoneal cavity gives rise to dulness in the flanks, more especially on the left side. As the blood accumu- lates the extent of the dulness may be observed to increase. While it is possible that a rupture of the spleen may be recovered from, it is usually necessary to interfere, and that promptly, to prevent the patient dying from loss of blood. The operation is carried out in the same lines as for rupture of the liver. Where the rupture is extensive, the most effective and ex- peditious procedure is to ligature the splenic vessels along with the gastro-splenic omentum and remove the spleen (splenectomy). When the laceration does not extend deeply into the substance of the spleen, it may be possible to bring together the edges of the rupture by deep sutures. Treatment must also be directed to any associated injuries, such as those of the ribs or adjacent viscera, and to the bloodless state. Stabs and gunshot wounds are to be diagnosed and treated on general principles. In extensive open wounds the organ may be protruded externally, in which case it should be replaced or removed according to the amount of damage it has sustained. Abscess of the Spleen.—Splenic abscess is most frequently met with in relation to endocarditis, pyaemia and typhoid, and is usually the result of septic embolism. More commonly an abscess is formed in the connective tissue around the spleen, as a result of localised suppurative peritonitis, for example, that associated with a perforated gastric ulcer. The abscess may point and burst externally, or it may rupture into the pleural or peritoneal cavity, into the retro-peritoneal tissue, or into one of the adjacent organs. It may give rise to phlebitis in the portal vein, and to secondary abscesses in the liver. The clinical features are rarely characteristic even when the abscess reaches the surface of the organ, or ruptures as above mentioned. The spleen is found to be enlarged and tender, and the patient has rigors, sweats, and loses flesh rapidly. Peritoneal friction may be heard over the swelling, and there may be signs of pleurisy at the base of the left lung. If the general condition of the patient permit, the area of