THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 692 Functional Disturbances of the Male Sexual Organs.—In considering this question, it is necessary to distinguish between impotence, which is the inability to perform the sexual act, and sterility, which is the inability to beget children. The two con- ditions may be associated. Impotence may be due to anatomical deformities of the sexual organs, such as marked degrees of hypospadias or epispadias, or to some mechanical obstacle to coitus, such as curvature of the penis during erection from the presence of scar tissue in the erectile tissue. Apart from these conditions the main cause of impotence is incompleteness or absence of erection of the penis. This is frequently due to psychical causes, for example, in young men of neurotic temperament, the inhibitory influence of the brain on the erection centre in the spinal cord preventing normal erection. In other cases it is due to over-stimulation by sexual excitement resulting in exhaustion of the nervous mechanism. In certain diseases of the spinal cord also, erection becomes impossible, and after removal of both testes in the adult it may become incomplete or may even be absent. The prolonged and excessive use of certain drugs, such as opium, cocain, arsenic, camphor, or alcohol, may induce impotence. Less common causes of impotence are premature ejaculation before erection is complete, and delayed ejaculation, the emission not taking place till after the penis has become flaccid. These conditions are usually due to mental excitement. Sterility in the male is due either to absence of semen or to abnormal composition of the fluid. In some cases no sper- matozoa are present in the seminal fluid ejaculated—azoospermia. This may be due to the testes not forming spermatozoa, as a result of atrophy or disease ; or to some interference with the flow of the fluid through the seminal channels, for example, as a result of gonorrhoeal or syphilitic affections of the vas deferens, the seminal vesicles, or the ejaculatory ducts. In some cases of cryptorchism spermatozoa are absent from the semen, but in others they are abundant. Azoospermia may be temporary or permanent according to the condition to which it is due. In other cases, although the sexual act is performed, no seminal fluid is ejaculated—aspermia. This is usually due to some obstruction in the seminal tract, for example, obliteration of the vas deferens or ejaculatory duct from gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion or from the presence of concretions, or to stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. This condition may exist tem- porarily as a result of congestive or inflammatory conditions in the ducts or urethra, or from psychical causes.