209 ADENOIDS. sometimes from suppurative otitis media with a discharge from the ear. Among the rarer conditions attributed to adenoids are asthma, inspiratory laryngeal stridor, persistent cough, chorea, and nocturnal enuresis. A diagnosis should never be made from the symptoms alone; an attempt should be made to examine the naso-pharynx by posterior rhinoscopy and by digital examination. The interior of the nose must always be examined and any further cause of obstruction excluded. Treatment.—Thorough removal is the only satisfactory line of treatment, and this should be done under general anaesthesia. The methods of operating are various, but the following brief description will indicate how the adenoid mass may be satis- factorily removed. The following instruments are necessary :— two Gottstein’s adenoid curettes, one provided with a cradle and hooks, the other without, a Hartmann’s lateral ring knife and one pair of adenoid forceps—Kuhn’s or Loewenberg’s, a tongue depressor, a gag, and one or two small throat sponges on holders. The patient having been anaesthetised, his head should be drawn over the end of the table, which is placed close to the window. An assistant standing on the left side inserts the gag and maintains it in position. The operator, being on the patient’s right, depresses the tongue and insinuates the curette provided with the hooks, behind the soft palate, carrying it to the roof of the naso-pharynx between the growth and the posterior free edge of the nasal septum. Firm pressure is then made against the vault of the naso-pharynx, and the curette is carried backwards and downwards in the mesial plane, and withdrawn with the main mass of the adenoids caught in the hooks. The unguarded curette is then introduced and several strokes are made with it, the instrument being carried on either side of the mesial plane. Hartmann’s lateral ring knife or the index linger should then be passed behind the palate, and the naso-pharynx thoroughly explored and scraped. With the finger, the fossae of Rosenmuller should be investigated, and if necessary scraped. The curette should not be used on the lateral pharyngeal wall in case the Eustachian orifices and cushions be damaged. Bleeding soon ceases when the head is again elevated, and the patient should be at once laid well over upon his side so that the blood may escape from the mouth. No local after-treatment is required, and spraying or syringing may prove harmful. The patient should remain in the house VOL. II—14