14 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. and forwards for a distance of about three and a half inches, at an angle of 67'5° with the line CO. The angle of 67'5° can he readily determined by folding a square piece of paper on itself so as to make a triangle. The angle at the fold equals 45°. By folding the paper again upon itself in the same direction the right angle of the paper is divided into four angles of 22"5° each. Three of these angles taken together make up the 67'5°. If the straight edge of the paper be placed along the sagittal suture with the angle of folding over the upper end of the fissure of Rolando, the folded edge falls over the line of the fissure (Chiene). Operation of Trephining. The operation of opening the skull, or trephining, is called for in certain cases of fracture, of Jacksonian epilepsy, and in the treatment of cerebral abscesses and tumours. The special indications in these and other conditions will be referred to later. The head is shaved the day before the operation, when possible, and the scalp thoroughly purified. The general pre- paration of the patient is the same as for other major operations. Some surgeons give one-sixth to one-third of a grain of morphin hypodermically just before the operation to diminish haemorrhage by contracting the arterioles, and to dull the patient’s sensations so that a comparatively small amount of anaesthetic is required. Chloroform is preferable to ether as a general anaesthetic, as it produces less congestion of the cerebral vessels. In cases of compound fracture of the skull the existing wound is enlarged sufficiently to allow the trephine to be applied, care being taken to avoid cutting across the vessels and nerves of the scalp. When the scalp is intact, a horse-shoe shaped flap is raised, with its base below and its rounded apex above. The incision is carried down to the bone, and the pericranium is reflected along with the scalp. The trephine is then applied, and a disc of bone removed from the skull. As the thickness of the bone varies greatly at different parts of the skull, care must be taken to avoid perforating at one part sooner than at another. For this purpose the depth of the groove made by the trephine should be tested from time to time by means of a sterilised toothpick or probe. The opening may be enlarged if necessary by means of rongeur or gouge forceps or by a Hey’s saw. If bleeding from the vessels of the diploe persists, it may be controlled by crushing with strong forceps, or by the application of Horsley’s antiseptic putty, which consists of carbolic acid one part, oil two parts, and wax seven parts. When a large opening in the skull is required, for example in exploratory operations, or for the removal of extensive tumours,