INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 1G1 To prevent septic complications, any foreign body must be removed and an antiseptic mouth-wash regularly employed. Cases have been recorded in which such a foreign body as a bullet, a needle or a piece of a pipe-stem has remained embedded in the substance of the tongue for long periods, and caused a firm, indolent swelling liable to be mistaken for a new growth. The removal of such bodies may be attended with considerable haemorrhage. Inflammatory Affections. Acute Parenchymatous Glossitis. —Acute inflammation implicating the whole of the substance of the tongue is comparatively rare. It usually occurs in young men, and is said to be most frequent during the winter months. The condition may follow on an attack of erysipelas or of scarlet fever. The numerous forms of bacteria which exist in the mouth play an important part in its pro- duction, and different types of the disease are recognised according to the nature of the more active organisms present. In the streptococcal variety the whole tongue becomes markedly oedematous and the inflammatory process tends to spread to the tissues of the neck as a diffuse cellulitis—one variety of angina Ludovici. In the staphylococcal variety, on the other hand, the inflammation tends to be more limited, and results in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. The onset is usually sudden, and is marked by severe pain and stiffness of the tongue, particularly when the patient attempts to masticate or to speak. The tongue rapidly swells, and in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours may fill the mouth and protrude beyond the teeth. It is fixed and covered with a thick white fur. There is profuse salivation, and in addition to difficulty in swallowing and speaking there may be considerable interference with respiration. The salivary and lymphatic glands in the submaxillary space are enlarged and tender. In the majority of cases the symptoms begin to subside in three or four days if suppuration does not occur. The treatment consists in administering a sharp purge and employing an antiseptic mouth-wash. Leeches may be applied to the submaxillary region with benefit. When dysphagia and dyspnoea are prominent symptoms, it may be necessary to make longitudinal incisions into the substance of the tongue to relieve the congestion. If an abscess forms it must of course be opened. Acute Parenchymatous Hemi-glossitis.—Occasionally the in- flammation is confined to one-half of the tongue—usually the left. The swelling is usually confined to the anterior part of the tongue, and this variety rarely ends in suppuration. VOL. II—11