TUBERCULOSIS. 575 renal colic from contractions of the ureter while tuberculous material is passing down the tube. Sometimes lisematuria is one of the first symptoms, and when occurring in persons in apparent good health it is apt to be misleading. As the disease progresses the features become characteristic ; there is failure of health and loss of flesh, the tenesmus of the bladder is almost continuous day and night, and as its cavity becomes more and more con- tracted there is practically incontinence, especially in the female. The urine shows an abundant mixture of pus and caseous debris, but at times may become almost clear, such intervals corresponding to blocking of the affected ureter. When the ureter is so blocked there is more lumbar pain, and the kidney may be felt to be enlarged. Septic infection of the urinary tract is liable to follow unskilful examination of the bladder, or the ill-advised treatment of the bladder symptoms by local measures ; it greatly accelerates the progress of the disease. The amount of pus in the urine is greater, and if there is retention in the pelvis- there is fever, often of the hectic type, attended with rapid emaciation and sweating; the kidney is felt as a tender movable tumour, or, if a perinephric abscess be superadcled, the loin is filled up by a diffuse fixed swelling in which fluctuation may be detected. In advanced cases the urine may become alkaline and stinking. Diagnosis.—Cases of irritability of the bladder suggestive of cystitis, which cannot be traced to gonorrhoea or to infection during catheterisation, should raise the suspicion of tuberculous kidney. As tubercle bacilli are not constantly found their absence does not exclude tuberculosis, but their presence in acid urine along with pus is characteristic. The cystoscope, which can scarcely ever be employed in advanced cases because of the contracted and irritable state of the bladder, shows in the early stage minute tubercles and ulcers, and injection of the mucous membrane around the ureteral orifice on the side of the affected kidney. Examination of the urine obtained from each kidney separately by the ureteral catheter affords the most conclusive evidence. That from the affected organ is pale, turbid, and shows great diminution of urinary solids as shown by its freezing- point ; it may also yield tubercle bacilli. That from the healthy kidney shows increased concentration. When performed in the early stage of the disease and with proper precautions these procedures are harmless; in advanced cases they are not only difficult or impossible, but may aggravate the symptoms. The freezing-point of the blood affords corroborative information as to the functional capacity of the other kidney.