236 CHAPTER XV11I. THE (ESOPHAGUS. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Wounds—Swallowing of caustics — Impaction of foreign bodies — Rupture — Inflammatory affections : (Esophagitis ; Peri-cesoqdiagitis; Tuberculosis; Syphilis— Varix—Cicatricial stricture—Malignant stricture—Spasmodic stric- ture—Paralysis—Malformations: Congenital; Acquired; Dilatation; Diverticula. Surgical Anatomy.—The oesophagus extends from the level of the cricoid cartilage to about the level of the lower end of the sternum. For clinical purposes it is useful to remember that the distance from the upper incisor teeth to the commencement of the oesophagus is about five or six inches, and that the oesophagus measures from nine to ten inches. The whole distance, therefore, from the teeth to the stomach is from fourteen to sixteen inches. The cervical portion of the oesophagus, extending from the cricoid cartilage to the upper edge of the sternum, measures about two inches. It lies behind and to the left of the trachea, and in the groove between the gullet and the trachea on each side runs the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The thoracic portion is about seven inches long, and traverses the posterior mediastinum lying somewhat to the left of the middle line. It is crosseel by the left bronchus, and below this level has the pericardium immediately in front of it. The left pleura is closely related to the anterior surface of the oesophagus throughout, while the right pleura passes behind it in its lower part. This accounts for the frequency with which growths in the oesophagus invade the right pleura. The oesophagus passes through the diaphragm about an inch above the cardiac opening of the stomach. The narrowest parts of the oesophagus are its upper opening at the level of the cricoiol, the point at which it is crossed by the left bronchus, anol the point where it passes through the diaphragm. It is at these points that foreign bodies most frequently become impacted. Methods of Examination.—It is sometimes possible to detect an impacted foreign body or a distended diverticulum in the cervical por- tion of the oesophagus by palpation. New growths confined to the oesophagus can seldom be felt through the skin, but if the tumour extends above the level of the cricoid and implicates the pharynx, it may form a palpable swelling behind the larynx. Introduction of Bougies.—(Esojiliageal bougies or probangs are useol for diagnostic purposes in cases of suspected stricture, and to aid in the