THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 556 it is important to locate it in order that it may, if possible, be removed. Causes in the Kidney itself.—Apart from such conditions as a calculus or a villous tumour blocking the outlet of the renal pelvis, the commonest cause is an alteration in the position of the kidney, whether congenital or acquired, whereby the outflow through the ureter is interfered with. Descent of the kidney usually results in a curving of the upper end of the ureter, the convexity of the curve being upwards, or, in extreme cases, it may be kinked and form an inverted V. If the hindrance to the outflow is temporary, as it is in a floating kidney which returns to its place, the pelvis readily returns to its former size — intermittent hydronephrosis — but with repeated recurrence of the obstruction, secondary changes occur in the pelvis and ureter which tend to perpetuate the stagna- tion of urine—permanent hydronephrosis. These changes at first consist in loss of elasticity in the wall of the pelvis and unequal dilatation of its cavity, as for example where the seg- ment below the ureteral opening distends more than that above, and the orifice of the ureter, instead of being at the most dependent part of the pelvis, comes to lie above the level of the lower sac (Fig. 126). the rotation of the kidney which the pelvis moves forward and the Con- Fig. 126.—Diagrammatic Section of Hydro- nephrosis, showing valvular obstruction at outlet of pelvis. K = the valve (after Israel). Further, as a result of accompanies its descent, ureter comes to lie along the posterior wall of the sac. gestive changes occur, and result in the formation of adhesions between the pelvis and ureter, fixing the latter in its bent position, and embedding it in the posterior wall of the dilated pelvis. The result is that the ureteral opening becomes more and more oblique and slit-like, while the layers of tissue inter- vening between the cavity of the pelvis and the lumen of the ureter become fused together and thinned out until they form a spur or valve which may entirely close the ureteral opening (Fig. 127). These secondary changes in the pelvis and ureter