THE URINARY BLADDER. 592 Paralysis of the bladder from injury or disease of the nerves or nerve centres is frequently followed by cystitis, because the organ is not completely evacuated and the nutrition of its tissues is impaired. Congestion of the mucous membrane—such as may result from exposure to cold, sexual excess, active diuretics, cantharides, alcohol, the mechanical irritation of urinary salts, foreign bodies, calculus or tumour—is one of the commonest predisposing causes of cystitis, especially when it is combined with incomplete evacuation of the contents of the bladder. The determining cause of cystitis is bacterial infection. The organisms concerned are the diplococcus and the urobacillus liquefaciens, both of which decompose urea, and the various pyogenic bacteria such as colon bacilli, staphylococci, strepto- cocci, pneumococci, gonococci, and probably a great many others which have not been identified. The colon bacillus is found in nearly one-half of the total cases observed. There is rarely only one species of organism present; those most frequently associ- ated are the colon bacillus, the urobacillus, and the staphylococcus. The urobacillus and the yellow staphylococcus are probably the most potent in causing cystitis, because they split up urea and bring about ammoniacal decomposition of the urine, which thereby becomes an irritating fluid and damages the mucous membrane with which it is in contact. The urethra is by far the most important route of infection. While the normal urethra is sterile except in the immediate vicinity of the meatus, when diseased it is very liable to harbour organisms, and these may ascend to the bladder, or be carried thither by the passage of instruments or by injections. Organisms from the diseased urethra are the most frequent agents of in- fection, and while this may take place spontaneously it commonly follows the passage of instruments. The short urethra of the female readily transmits organisms from the vulva, especially in the conditions which attend the puerperal state. Organisms derived from the blood and excreted by the kidneys are conveyed to the bladder by the ureters, but so long as the bladder and urethra functionate normally, these organisms are expelled with the urine before they are able to establish themselves. It is of interest to note that the kidney may, over long periods, discharge a large amount of pus by way of the bladder without causing cystitis. The walls of the bladder may be traversed by organisms derived from the surroundings, possibly from the rectum, certainly from pelvic abscesses of appendicular or other origin, but here even the fact of the abscess having ruptured into the bladder does not entail the development of cystitis.