THE PERITONEUM. 328 marked in the region of tlie organ primarily affected. The local pain and tenderness increase. The rigidity of the abdominal wall is most marked in the area involved. A more or less defined swelling forms, and is sometimes palpable through the anterior abdominal wall, sometimes through the rectum or vagina. The general condition of the patient improves as the localisation becomes more complete, and the pulse affords the most useful guide to its occurrence. The clinical features and progress naturally vary with the seat and extent of the infection. If pus forms, it may rupture into the general cavity, into one of the adjacent hollow organs, or into the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue. As a rule the pus approaches the surface, and the skin becomes oedematous and pits on pressure. The treatment is essentially operative. It is best studied with the individual organs. Pneumococcal Peritonitis.—This may occur in association with pneumonia, pleurisy, or meningitis, and is then part of a general infection, and is of little surgical importance. The organisms reach the peritoneum through the blood-stream, or by extension from the pleura through the diaphragm. Pneumococcal peritonitis is met with chiefly in female children, and it runs its course without any starting-point being discoverable. After an acute onset characterised by pain in the lower part of the belly, vomiting and fever, the symptoms may moderate for a time and then become more aggressive. The abdomen becomes distended, especially in the lower umbilical region, and there may be the physical signs of fluid exudation. Sometimes there are several distinct encapsulated collections of fluid within the belly, mostly situated below the umbilicus. In suppurative cases the abscess has been known to point and rupture at the umbilicus. The pus is of a greenish colour, without odour, and is mixed with a large amount of fibrin. It may contain pneumococci alone or along with other pus organisms. The diagnosis from appendicital or tuberculous peritonitis may be difficult. The prognosis is more favourable than in most other forms of septic peritonitis. Although spontaneous recovery is possible, the treatment is to open and irrigate the abdomen and establish drainage. Gonococcal Peritonitis.—This is met w-ith chiefly in females, and occurs both in adults and in children. The peritoneum is infected by way of the Fallopian tubes, either through the ostium or by the rupture of a pyosalpinx. In the male the infection may spread from the seminal vesicles. The peritonitis follows