11 SURGICAL ANATOMY. he main mass of the motor fibres crosses the middle line and enters the ateral column of the spinal cord as the crossed pyramidal tract. The emaining fibres pass on in the anterior column of the same side as the '■irect pyramidal tract. In the cord the fibres of the pyramidal tracts terminate at different evels by breaking up into fine branches around the multipolar nerve ells of the grey matter of the anterior horns, the axis cylinders of which save the cord as the anterior nerve-roots to supply the voluntary muscles. Sensory Functions and Mechanism. —• The sensory nerve fibres pass rom their peripheral distribution in the sense organs of the skin, luscles, tendons, and other structures through the posterior nerve-roots nto the spinal cord. Some of the fibres ascend the cord in the posterior nd lateral columns of the same side, passing upward to the medulla, diere most of them enter the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus ; the axis ylinders of the cells of these nuclei cross the middle line at the decussa- ion of the fillet, which is situated just above the motor decussation in he medulla, and there unite with sensory fibres which have ascended in he lateral column of that side, having decussated in the cord soon after heir entry. Thence the sensory fibres pass through the dorsal portion f the medulla and pons to reach the tegmentum of the crura cerebri, ’hey then enter the posterior third of the internal capsule, some of hem terminating in the optic thalamus, others passing to the cortical ensory centres, which are situated in the Rolandic region and in the arietal lobes immediately posterior to it. Effects of Lesions of the Motor and Sensory Mechanisms.—Localised irtical lesions of an irritative kind, for example, a patch of meningitis, tumour, meningeal haemorrhage, or a spicule of bone, produce spasms i those groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body which re supplied by the centres implicated (Jacksonian epilepsy). The ortical discharge may overflow into neighbouring centres and cause lore widespread convulsive movements, or, if strong and long-continued, lay even lead to general convulsions. If an area of the cortex is destroyed by such a lesion, paralysis is roduced on the opposite side of the body, the seat and extent of the aralysis depending upon the area of the cortex destroyed. Lesions situated in the centrum ovale, which destroy the fibres pro- jeding from the overlying cortex, produce a corresponding paralysis on lie opposite side of the body. No irritative phenomena are associated ■ith a lesion limited to this situation. Lesions in the region of the internal capsule often produce complete emiplegia of the opposite side of the body. When the posterior part f the capsule is involved there are, in addition, liemianaesthesia and emianopia. A lesion of the crus may in like manner produce hemiplegia and emianaesthesia of the opposite side, often associated with paralysis of lie third nerve of the same side. The symptoms produced by lesions of re pons and medulla vary according to the position of the lesion. If it ; unilateral, there may be hemiplegia and liemianaesthesia of the opposite de ; if it is situated in the lower part of the pons or in the medulla, rere is often also paralysis of one or more of the cranial nerves on the une side as the lesion (crossed jiaralysis). A unilateral lesion of the spinal cord causes paralysis and wasting of ie muscles supplied from the cord at the level of the lesion, with par- lysis of motion on the same side of the body, and of sensation on the pposite side, below the level of the lesion.