200 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. colour, and its surface is soft and greasy. The condition is met with in elderly men, and the masses appear to be chiefly com- posed of sebaceous adenomata. The term lipomi nasi, formerly employed, is therefore misleading. The treatment consists in paring away the protuberant masses until the normal size and contour of the nose are re- stored, care being taken not to encroach on the cartilages or on the orifices of the nostrils. There is comparatively little bleed- ing and the raw surface rapidly becomes covered by epidermis. Examination of the Nasal Cavities.—For the examination of the interior of the nose the following appliances are necessary : A reflector, Sphenoidal sinus. Opening of sphe- noidal sinus. Sphenoidal sinus. Superior meatus. Frontal sinus. Infundibulum. Ethmoidal cells. Uncinate process. Accessory maxil- lary opening. Inferiorturbinal. meatus. Opening of Superior posterior eth- turbinal. moidal cells. Spheno-ethmoidal recess. Fig. 50.—The outer wall of left nasal chamber, after removal of the middle turbinated body. (After Logau Turner.) such as is used in laryngoscopy, attached to a forehead band or spec- tacle frame, one of the various forms of nasal speculum, a long, pliable probe, a tongue depressor, and a small-sized mirror. As additional aids, a 10 per cent, solution of cocain, a grooved probe as a cotton-wool holder, and a palate retractor should be in readiness. Good illumination is important, and may be obtained from an electric light, or from a Wels- bach or Argand burner. The light should be placed close to, and on a level with, the patient’s left ear. Both the anterior and posterior nares should be examined. Anterior Rhinoscopy.—Before the introduction of the speculum the tip of the nose should be tilted uji and the interior of the vestibule and the anterior part of the septum examined. In this way the existence of eczema or small furuncules, the presence of dilated or bleeding vessels upon, or a perforation of, the anterior part of the septum may be noted, and the general appearances inspected. After inserting the speculum