260 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. obstruction is incomplete, the patient experiences severe pain, difficulty of breathing, and a terrifying sensation of being choked. The irritation of the foreign body causes spasmodic coughing and retching, and may induce spasm of the glottis, which proves fatal. Small round bodies may lodge in the upper aperture or in one of the ventricles, and give rise to hoarseness and repeated attacks of dyspnoea and spasmodic cough. Wherever the body is situated, the symptoms may suddenly become urgent from its displacement into the glottis, or from the onset of oedema of the glottis. The position of the body may often be ascertained by the use of the X-rays. Treatment.—If the symptoms are urgent, tracheotomy must be performed at once, and an attempt made to remove the foreign body thereafter. In less severe cases the throat should be sprayed with cocain, the larynx examined with the mirror, and an attempt made to extract the body by means of intra-laryngeal forceps. As these manipulations are liable to induce sudden spasm of the glottis, the means of performing tracheotomy must always be at hand. If it be found impossible to remove the body through the mouth, laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be performed, and the body extracted through the external opening, or pushed up into the pharynx and removed by this route. The foreign bodies which are most likely to become impacted in the trachea are tooth-plates with projecting hooks, and small coins. If the body remains movable in the trachea, it is apt to be displaced when the patient moves or coughs, and it may be driven up against the glottis and set up violent attacks of coughing and spasmodic dyspnoea. The X-rays often prove helpful in determining the position of the foreign body. Treatment.—Tracheotomy should be performed at once and the edges of the tracheal wound held widely open with retractors, the patient being inverted, or coughing induced by tickling the mucous membrane with a feather. The foreign body is usually expelled, but it may be inhaled into one of the bronchi. Foreign Bodies in the Bronchi.—Rounded objects which pass through the larynx usually drop into one or other of the bronchi, usually the right, which is the more vertical and slightly the larger. The body may act as a ball-valve, permitting the escape of air with expiration, but preventing its entrance on inspiration, with the result that the portion of lung affected becomes collapsed. The physical signs of collapse of a portion or of the whole lung may be recognised on examination of the chest. In some cases the body is frequently dislodged and driven up into the larynx, causing severe dyspnoeic attacks and spasms of coughing.