SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES OF ABDOMEN. 309 to irritants. Its remarkable capacity of absorbing fluids may be beneficial by preventing such an accumulation as might serve as a culture medium for micro-organisms ; but it may prove harmful if the fluid contain in solution a large amount of poisonous material, for the struggle between the infecting organisms and the individual is thus transferred from the peritoneum to the general circulation. The reaction of the peritoneum to irritants is usually manifested by the throwing out of an exudation on its surface, chiefly in the form of fibrinous lymph. If the irritant be of the nature of an asepitic foreign body, such as a portion of tissue which, has been ligatured with silk, it is surrounded by the lymph, and as the latter becomes organised the foreign body is encapsulated or may be finally absorbed. Even infective material, if small in amount, may in this "way be walled in and rendered innocuous or prevented from spreading. In this respect there is probably no tissue in the body more favourably disposed for resisting organismal influence than the peritoneum. If, however, the infective material is large in amount, exceptionally virulent, or introduced under conditions favourable to the lodgment and multiplication of bacteria, the properties of the peritoneum become harmful, inasmuch as the exudation affords an excellent medium for the growth of organisms, and the rapidity of absorption floods the circulation with their poisonous products. These considerations are of special importance in relation to peritonitis. Sensibility of the Peritoneum and of the Abdominal Viscera.—Observa- tions made in the course of operations performed without a general anaesthetic have revealed a number of interesting points bearing on this subject. The parietal peritoneum is sensitive to touch and pain, especially that portion of it lining the anterior abdominal wall and the iliac fossae. It is most sensitive to stretching, as when the edges of a wound are drawn apart, or when one of the viscera connected with the parietal peritoneum is pulled upon. Traction on adhesions connected with the parietal peritoneum also causes pain. The painful impulses are transmitted by the spinal nerves. The visceral peritoneum, and to a great extent the viscera themselves, are insensitive, and, provided the parietal peritoneum is not put upon the stretch, may be handled or subjected to operative interference without the patient being aware of what is done. So long as the parietal peritoneum is not involved, gastric and intestinal ulcers may run their course without pain, and stones may lie in the gall-bladder without giving rise to symptoms. Adhesions between viscera rarely cause pain, while those involving the parietal peritoneum cause suffering by dragging on its nerves. It has hitherto been maintained that the visceral peritoneum becomes sensitive when it is inflamed, but Lenander, to whom we are indebted for the preceding observations, believes that it is insensitive, even in acute peritonitis, and that the pain in this affection is due to the involvement of the parietal peritoneum. These observations explain the absence of pain in many grave visceral lesions, which is frequently a source of difficulty in diagnosis. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdomen. In the normal condition of the abdominal muscles the belly wall is so movable and elastic that it at once yields before any