472 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. profuse perspiration. As a rule, in chronic obstruction the gall- bladder cannot be felt, the liver and spleen are usually enlarged, and the general health undergoes progressive deterioration. There is an increased liability to haemorrhage—a point of great importance in regard to surgical interference. It may, to a certain extent, be prevented by giving full doses of chloride of calcium for some time before and after operation (Mayo Robson). Diagnosis.—Chronic obstruction may be simulated by malig- nant disease of the bile-ducts or of the head of the pancreas. A history of gall-stone seizures, variation in the intensity of the jaundice, irregular pyrexia, and local tenderness, are in favour of the diagnosis of cholelithiasis. Rapid loss of flesh, comparative absence of pain, and the presence of a distended gall-bladder, are in favour of malignant disease. Treatment.—In chronic obstruction incision of the 'bile- duct and removal of the stone—choledochotomy is indicated. This is always a difficult operation because of the pathological changes in and around the ducts. The lower thorax having been projected forwards by a pillow placed under the back, the abdomen is opened in the middle line or through the right rectus, and the fingers are introduced to feel for the impacted stone. If it is found in the upper part of the duct, it is removed by in- cising the wall of the duct directly over it. When it is impacted in the lower end of the duct, the second part of the duodenum must be laid open from the front and the orifice of the duct stretched, or that part of the duct which runs in the posterior wall of the duodenum incised—duodeno-choledochotomy. The wound in the duct is sutured, or is made use of to drain the biliary passages; a rubber tube is passed up the common duct towards the liver, and the other end is brought out at the wound. If the duodenum has been opened, it must be closed by sutures. The gall-bladder must also be examined and any stones removed from its interior, after which it is drained as in cholecystotomy. Should the condition of the patient render this operation too dangerous, the jaundice may be relieved by opening and draining the gall-bladder, thus allowing all the bile to escape externally. Crushing the stone between the fingers, as an alternative to choledochotomy, is not recommended, as it is apt to be followed by re-formation of calculi. After-Treatment.—After recovery from operation or after the stone has been passed, the bowels must be made to act regularly by the use of saline laxatives, preferably natural Carlsbad water. The diet is to be regulated so as to obviate any disturbance of digestion, hot water should be drunk three or four times a day*