MIDDLE-EAR SUPPURATION. 193 may be visible upon it. The sudden cessation of pain and the appearance of a discharge from the meatus indicate perforation of the membrana tympani. The treatment of acute otitis media varies with the severity of the attack. The patient should be confined to the house or to bed, alcohol and tobacco should be forbidden, and the bowels must be freely opened. Pain may be allayed by repeated in- stillations of cocain and carbolic acid (5 grains of each to a dram of glycerine). A few drops of laudanum, hot boracic instillations, or the application of a dry hot sponge, may prove soothing. Two or three leeches may be applied over the mastoid, but should the pain persist or should rupture of the membrane appear imminent, paracentesis must be carried out. After spon- taneous perforation or puncture the meatus must be kept clean and inflation carried out daily. Attention must be paid to any affection of the nose or throat which may be present. Chronic Suppuration in the Middle Ear.—Acute suppuration may pass into the chronic variety, which is characterised by a perforation of the tympanic membrane, a persistent purulent or muco-purulent discharge from the middle ear, and a certain amount of deafness. Various complications may arise in the course of chronic middle-ear disease, and so long as an individual is the subject of a chronic otorrhcea, he is liable to one or more of these. The complications may be extra-cranial or intra-cranial. Those affecting the middle ear itself include granulations, polypi, cholesteatoma, caries and necrosis of the temporal bone, de- struction and loss of one or more of the ossicles, facial paralysis, haemorrhage from the carotid artery or jugular vein, and malignant disease. As mastoid complications, may be mentioned inflammation and suppuration, leading to destruction of the bone, mastoid fistula, and sub-periosteal mastoid abscess. The intra-cranial complications which may arise are : extra-dural abscess, sub-dural abscess, meningitis, cerebral and cerebellar abscess, and lateral sinus phlebitis with general septicaemia and pyaemia. The treatment of chronic middle-ear suppuration consists in keeping the parts clean by syringing with antiseptic lotions. The instillation of hydrogen peroxide, followed by syringing with boiled water or boracic lotion, and inflation through the Eustachian tube once, twice, or thrice daily, according to the requirements of the case, constitute a routine method. Packing the meatus with antiseptic gauze after washing out may be practised. YOL. II—13