PYOGENIC INFECTIONS. 561 neostomy; or a lateral anastomosis made between the free portion of the ureter and the dependent portion of the pelvis —uretero-pyelo-anastomosis. If the ureter cannot be found at its exit from the pelvis, it must be exposed lower down and traced upwards. If the pelvis is greatly dilated, it may be reduced in size by folding in its walls by tiers of sutures—py do- plication (Israel)—or by excising the greater part of the sac (Fenger), in either case endeavouring to bring the orifice of the ureter to the lowest part of the pelvis. Anastomosing the pelvis with the bladder has been carried out by Witzel. These opera- tions are only performed if the kidney is still functionally adequate. Nephrostomy and temporary drainage of the pelvis through the loin, is an essential accompaniment of these plastic operations on the pelvis and ureter. It not only favours the healing of the wound made in the plastic operation, by draining away the urine by the loin, but gives the relaxed wall of the pelvis a chance of recovering its tone. The fistula usually closes when the drainage-tube is removed. In some cases nephrostomy alone is followed by cure of the hydronephrosis, it may be by the mere fixation of the sac to the wound, as in cases of movable kidney, or by restoring the elastic tone of the wall of the pelvis and thus enabling it to overcome any remaining obstacle to the outflow through the ureter. A stone in the pelvis or ureter, or a stricture of the ureter, must be got rid of at the time the kidney and ureter are exposed at the operation. The formation of a permanent fistula in the loin is merely a palliative measure, and is only to be adopted when the cause of the obstruction cannot be removed. Nephrectomy, or extirpation of the hydronephrotic kidney, is to be had recourse to when conservative measures are im- practicable or have failed, provided always that the opposite kidney has been proved by kryoscopy to be functionating. The lumbar route is preferred, and the operation is seldom a difficult one. The trans-peritoneal route is only selected when the hydronephrosis affects a congenitally displaced kidney or one which floats freely within the abdominal cavity. Pyogenic Infections of the Kidney. Pyelitis, Pyelo-nephritis and Pyonephrosis.—-The term pyelitis is applied to pyogenic infection of the renal pelvis, pyelo-nephritis, when both the pelvis and renal parenchyma are involved, and pyonephrosis when there is superadded VOL. II—36