540 CHAPTER XXXII. THE KIDNEY AND URETEIl. Surgical anatomy—Terms denoting alterations in urine—Palpation and percussion of kidney — Cystoscope — Catheterisation of ureters — Kryoscopy. Operations on kidney and ureter—Congenital anomalies: Horse-shoe kidney; Absence and displacement of kidney; Abnor- malities of ureter—Acquired displacements : Movable or wandering kidney—Contusion and rupture of kidney—Open wounds—Injuries of ureter—Hydronephrosis—Infective conditions: Pyelitis; Pyelo- nephritis ; Pyonephrosis—Stone in the kidney and ureter—Calculous anuria — Tuberculosis — Perinephritis and perinephric abscess — Tumours and cysts of kidney and pelvis — Surgical aspects of nephritis. Surgical Anatomy.—The kidneys are situated in the loins, lying behind the peritoneum in a mass of extra-peritoneal fat. They are applied against the posterior abdomiual muscles close to their attachment to the last dorsal and upper three lumbar vertebrae, the psoas muscle interven- ing between the kidney and the transverse processes of the vertebrae (Fig. 124). The left kidney reaches slightly higher than the right, its upper border being on the level of the upper margin of the seventh costal cartilage, while that of the right kidney only reaches to the lower margin of the same cartilage. As viewed from the front the greater part of each kidney lies to the inner side of a line drawn vertically upwards from the centre of Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 123). The kidneys are placed obliquely, so that one surface looks forwards and outwards, while the other looks backwards and inwards. The layer of extra-peritoneal fat which immediately invests the kidney is termed the adipose capsule, in contra-distinction to the fibrous or true capsule, which is in immediate contact with the kidney. The perirenal fascia is a thin fibrous layer which surrounds the fatty capsule forming its outermost layer, and which is united to the true capsule by fibrous bands traversing the fat. The perirenal fascia is incomplete below, and its anterior layer is intimately blended with the parietal peritoneum. The pleural reflection passes from within outwards obliquely across the upper end of each kidney, and crosses the long axis of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The right kidney is related in front to the supra-renal capsule, the liver, the descending part of the duodenum, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. The left kidney is related in front to the supra- renal capsule, the stomach, pancreas, and spleen, and to the splenic flexure of the colon and the upper coils of small intestine.