THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 688 reduction is usually readily effected. If these measures fail, it is necessary to divide the constricting band on the dorsum of the penis, and leave things to settle down, after which circumcision is performed. The other malformations of the penis which occur are total absence, double penis, inclusion of the penis in a web of skin which binds it to the front of the scrotum, torsion of the penis and congenital fistula. These conditions are all rare and need not be referred to further. Injuries. — Injuries of the penis are comparatively rare. Those most frequently met with are contusion and rupture or “fracture,” and they are usually produced by bending of the penis while the organ is in a state of erection. There is severe pain, and the part becomes greatly swollen and ecchymosecl, or a hsematoma may form in the tissues. The discoloration extends over the greater part of the penis and scrotum. When the fibres of the corpus cavernosum are lacerated, erection is incomplete, the distal portion of the penis remaining flaccid while the proximal part becomes engorged. A fibrous nodule may persist at the seat of the rupture and subsequently cause deviation of the penis during erection. The treatment consists in applying evaporating lotions, or gentle elastic pressure, and securing absolute rest. Incised wounds are met with chiefly in lunatics as a result of attempts at self-mutilation. They are attended with severe haemorrhage, and, if the urethra is implicated, may be followed by stricture. Treatment is directed towards arresting the bleeding, and restoring the continuity of the urethra, a catheter being passed into the bladder and retained in position during the healing of the wound. When a portion of the penis has been completely separated, the end of the urethra should be split open and stitched to the cut edges of the skin. Strangulation of the penis may be produced by metal rings, elastic bands, or cords applied round the penis. The distal part of the organ becomes oedematous, congested, and finally gangrenous. The constricting object is buried out of sight in the swollen tissues and may escape notice. The urethra becomes occluded, and extravasation of urine may occur leading to the formation of urinary fistula;. The treatment consists in removing the tight band by scissors, cutting forceps, or a file, and in attempting to preserve the vitality of the strangulated tissue. When necrosis occurs, the gangrenous portions are covered with mild antiseptic dressings and the sloughs are clipped away as they become loose. Plastic