327 LOCALISED PERITONITIS. primary lesion; the extruded coils must then be enveloped in compresses wrung out of hot salt solution and surrounded by hot towels. It may be advisable to incise and empty one or more of the distended coils of bowel, especially if the distension is an obstacle to some essential 'step in the operation, as for example when a distended caecum prevents access to a diseased appendix, or when it is found impossible to return distended coils to the abdomen. The bowel being paralysed, it is only possible to empty a limited length of intestine through each incision. The opening is closed again by a purse-string suture carried through all the coats of the bowel, and a serous suture at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. The methods of dealing with the individual sources of the peritonitis will be considered under the respective organs. The operation is concluded by closing the abdominal wound, leaving room for the various drainage tubes. A wick of iodoform gauze or worsted should be passed to the bottom of each tube, or they may be sucked dry at frequent intervals by means of a syringe. The head of the bed may with advantage be raised to direct the fluid into the pelvis. If an area of infection has been left behind which it is impossible to remove, it should be packed with a large strand of iodoform gauze or wool, the end of which is brought out at the wound. The after-treatment consists in combating shock, relieving symptoms, and securing the action of the bowels. M‘Cosh’s procedure of injecting a solution of sulphate of magnesia into the lumen of the bowel—preferably the jejunum—before closing the abdomen is an attempt to fulfil the last indication. The alternative plan is to give calomel in repeated small doses followed by a saline. Flatulent distension may be relieved by an enema containing turpentine. Localised Forms of Septic Peritonitis. — In virtue of the capacity of the peritoneum to form adhesions, septic infections frequently remain localised to the vicinity of the organ in which they originate. This is most frequently observed in relation to the appendix, the female pelvic organs, and the gall-bladder. At any stage of the process resolution may occur ; the organisms die out, the exudation is reabsorbed, and recovery ensues. If the inflammatory exudate become purulent, the condition approaches that of a circumscribed abscess in other parts of the body, the wall of the abscess consisting of inflamed serous surfaces gummed together by lymph. The clinical features are at first similar to those of diffuse peritonitis, but as the infection becomes localised the general symptoms subside, while the inflammatory signs become more