256 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHT. ary-epiglottic folds may be found greatly swollen and the upper aperture of the larynx partially occluded. Digital examination may detect the swollen condition of the parts. The urine should be examined for albumin and tube casts. Treatment depends to some extent both upon the situation and amount of the oedema and upon the gravity of the patient’s condition. In the milder forms the sucking of ice, the inhalation of medicated steam, or spraying with a solution of adrenalin, and the application of poultices to the neck may suffice to relieve the condition. Scarification of the epiglottis and ary-epiglottic folds with a knife, followed by free bleeding, may give complete relief. Diaphoretic and purgative treatment should not be neglected. In any of these conditions, however, tracheotomy may suddenly be called for. Bilateral Abductor Paralysis.—Both recurrent laryngeal nerves may be interfered with by such conditions as enlargement of the thyroid gland, tumours of the oesophagus, intra-thoracic tumours aud aneurysm, or by injury leading to paralysis of the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles which open the glottis. A gradually increasing inspiratory dyspnoea is developed, which at first is only noticed on exertion, when the desire for air is in- creased, but it later becomes permanent, and even during sleep the stridor may be marked. Suffocation may become imminent. When the larynx is examined with the mirror, the vocal cords are seen to lie near each other, and on inspiration their approxi- mation is still greater. The treatment of bilateral abductor paralysis depends upon the cause. In the majority of cases tracheotomy is called for sooner or later. Syphilitic Affections of the Larynx.—Secondary syphilitic manifestations in the form of congestion of the mucous membi’ane, mucous patches, or condylomata are occasionally met with, and give rise to a peculiar liuskiness of the voice. These conditions usually disappear rapidly under the influence of mercury. In tertiary syphilis, whether inherited or acquired, the most common lesion is a diffuse gummatous infiltration which tends to go on to ulceration and to lead to wide-spread destruction of tissue. It usually attacks the epiglottis, the arytenoids, and the ary-epiglottic folds, but may spread and implicate all the structures of the larynx. Syphilitic ulcers are usually single, deep, and crateriform; the base is covered with a dirty white secretion, and the surrounding mucosa presents an angry red appearance. When the perichondrium becomes invaded, necrosis of the cartilages is liable to occur.