162 THE TONGUE. Mercurial Glossitis.—An acute form of glossitis was formerly common among workers in mercury and in patients taking this drug medicinally. It is now seldom met with. There is profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. The swelling of the tongue is associated with a spongy condition of the gums, looseness of the teeth, and other signs of mercurial stomatitis. The treatment is the same as that for mercurial stomatitis. Gangrene or sloughing of portions of the tongue may occur as a result of mercurial glossitis, sepsis, or syphilis, or from the spread of cancrum oris. A sloughing wound may result from the rough use of unsuitable tongue forceps during anaesthesia. Chronic Superficial Glossitis. — Several forms of chronic superficial glossitis are met with. The most important, as it is frequently followed by the development of epithelioma, is that known as leucoplakia or leuco-keratosis. The tongue is covered with white patches which result from overgrowth and cornification of the surface epithelium, whereby it becomes thickened and raised above the surface, and at the same time there is small-celled infiltration of the submucous tissue. The patches are irregularly lozenge-shaped, and when crowded together they present the appearance of a mosaic. Similar patches are also met with on the mucous membrane lining the cheek. The disease is met with almost invariably in men between the ages of forty and fifty. Syphilis appears to be a predis- posing factor, while any form of irritation—for example, the chewing or smoking of tobacco, the drinking of raw spirits, friction by a rough tooth or tooth-plate—tends to induce or aggravate the condition. The milder forms give rise to no discomfort, but when the condition is advanced the patient complains of dryness and hard- ness of the tongue, with impairment of the sense of taste and persistent thirst. When cracks, fissures or warts develop, there may be pain on taking hot or irritating food. The glands below the jaw may be enlarged. The disease is most intractable and persistent, and even after disappearing for a time is liable to recur. After a variable number of years epithelioma is liable to develop, usually in one or other of the fissures which accompany the condition. The treatment consists in removing all sources of irritation and employing mouth-washes. Butlin recommends antiseptic ointments applied before going to bed. In some cases painting the patches with chromic or lactic acid is useful in removing