297 FIBRO-ADENOMA. the so-called serous or lymphatic cysts—formerly believed to be due to dilatation of lymph spaces—are of the nature of involution cysts. These cysts are frequently multiple, and are most abundant towards the periphery of the breast and on its deep surface. They form smooth, rounded or oval swellings, varying in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange, are movable with the breast but not independently of it, and are not attached to the skin. When the contained fluid is under considerable tension, these cysts are liable to be mistaken for solid tumours, and it is not uncommon for their cystic nature only to be recognised on cutting into them. If single the cyst along with the breast tissue immediately surrounding it may be excised, but when they are multiple the whole breast should be removed. Hydatid cysts of the breast are rare. They usually suppurate, and are seldom diagnosed before being operated upon. Tumours op the Breast. The most important of the non-malignant tumours are the fibro-adenoma, in its various forms, and the duct papilloma. Lipomata, chondromata, and angiomata are so rare that it is not necessary to refer to them further. Fibro-adenoma.—This tumour is composed partly of fibrous and partly of glandular tissue. The glandular element consists of numerous branching tubes and irregular acinous spaces. The epithelium is arranged on the same plan as that of the normal gland tissue, and it shows no tendency to spread beyond its basement membrane. Between the epithelial masses is a variable quantity of fibrous connective tissue in which the blood-vessels ramify. The tumour is known as a soft or as a hard fibro- adenoma, according as the glandular or the fibrous element pre- dominates. In the substance of a soft fibro-adenoma cystic dilatations filled with mucoid fluid sometimes form—cysto-adenoma—and in some cases papilliform growths project into the interior of the cysts—proliferous cysto-adenoma. These tumours are not malignant, and the terms adeno-sarcoma and cysto-sarcoma sometimes applied to them are erroneous. Clinical Features.—The hard fibro-adenoma is the variety most commonly met with, and it usually occurs in women between twenty and thirty years of age. It forms a rounded or oval swelling, usually about the size of a pigeon’s egg, smooth or slightly nodular on the surface, and freely movable within