257 TUBERCULOSIS OF LARYNX. Hoarseness, dyspnoea, and, when the epiglottis is involved, dysphagia are the most prominent symptoms. Cicatricial contraction leading to stenosis usually ensues, and may cause persistent dyspnoea, and, if the vocal cords are destroyed, aphonia. The usual treatment for tertiary syphilis is employed, but on account of the tendency of potassium iodide to increase the oedema of the larynx, this drug must be used with caution. Intubation or tracheotomy may be called for on account of sudden urgent dyspnoea or of increasing stenosis. The stenosis is afterwards treated by gradual dilatation with bougies. Tuberculosis.—The larynx is comparatively seldom the primary seat of tubercle. In the majority of cases the patient sutlers from pulmonary phthisis, and the laryngeal mucous mem- brane is infected from the sputum. The disease may take the form of isolated tubercle nodules in the vicinity of the arytenoid cartilages, of superficial ulceration of the vocal cords and ad- jacent parts, or of a diffuse tuberculous infiltration of all the structures surrounding the upper aperture of the larynx. The mucous membrane becomes oedematous and semi - trans- lucent, and under it miliary tubercles may be seen. These coalesce and break down, leading to the formation of multiple superficial ulcers. The parts adjacent to the ulcers are pale in colour. Perichondritis may occur and be followed by necrosis of cartilage and the formation of abscesses in the larynx or in the neck. The voice becomes hoarse or may be lost, there is persistent and intractable cough, and in some cases dyspnoea supervenes. When the epiglottis is involved, there is pain and difficulty in swallowing. In the presence of advanced pulmonary phthisis the treatment is chiefly palliative, but if the disease in the lungs is amenable to treatment, and the laryngeal disease limited, excellent results have been obtained by local measures. The X-rays have been employed with some success. Tracheotomy may be called for on account of urgent dyspnoea. Tumours.—The commonest form of simple tumour met with in the larynx is the papilloma. It may occur at any age, and is comparatively common in children. It most frequently springs from the vocal cords and adjacent parts, forming a soft, pedunculated, cauliflower-like mass of a pink or red colour. The tumour may form a fringe hanging from the edge of the cord, or may spread until it nearly fills the larynx. In children the growths are frequently multiple and show a marked tendency VOL. 11—17