393 INJURIES. must be taken during the first week not to displace the tube, as some difficulty may be experienced in re-introducing it, and in the attempt the sutures may be torn and leakage take place. After the fistulous track has become established, the tube may be removed and cleaned from time to time. Gastro-enterostomy.—This operation, which consists in estab- lishing a communication between the stomach and the small intestine, is performed when it is desired to rest the stomach and to provide a new outlet for the escape of its contents into the intestine. As a rule the portion of intestine selected for anastomosis is the upper end of the jejunum—rjastro-jejunostomy—and this is united to a dependent part of the stomach. The viscera are applied to each other in such a way that the direction of the peristaltic movements shall be the same in each. The jejunum may be brought upwards in front of the colon and fixed to the anterior wall of the stomach (Wolfler’s operation), or it may be taken behind the colon and fixed to the posterior wall of the stomach (von Hacker’s operation). An operation has been devised by Kocher in which the second part of the duodenum is united to the anterior wall of the stomach—gastro-duodenostomy. Injuries. The stomach may be either contused or ruptured from a severe blow over the epigastrium without there being any evidence of damage to the abdominal wall. The lesion is usually on the anterior wall of the stomach near the pylorus. In a contusion the peritoneal coat is usually torn, and in some cases the muscular coat also is implicated, but the mucous membrane remains intact. There is marked shock, severe epigastric pain, and vomiting. The damaged portion of the stomach wall may subsequently become gangrenous, in which case signs of perforation-peritonitis suddenly ensue several daj^s after the injury. When there is a rupture of all the coats of the stomach, gas enters the peritoneal cavity, and may cause some distension of the abdomen and diminution of the area of liver dulness. The fluid contents of the stomach may also escape into the abdominal cavity and set up perforation-peritonitis. The patient is profoundly collapsed, the pulse small and rapid, and the temperature subnormal. The abdominal muscles are rigid, and the respiration is entirely thoracic. There may be vomiting of unaltered blood or of blood blackened by digestion. These symptoms are most prominent