COMPRESSION FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 83 If the patient lands on his head the compression fracture usually involves the lower cervical or upper dorsal vertebras. When he lands on his buttocks or feet it is usually the lumbar or the lower dorsal vertebras that are fractured (Fig. 12). The patient lies helpless and is unable to walk, stand, or sit. As a rule there are no external signs of injury over the spine. The sternum, however, is often fractured, and irregularity and discoloration may be detected on examining the front of the chest. The recognition of a fracture of the sternum should always direct attention to the spine, of the back in the region injured a more or less marked projection of the spinous processes may be recognised. In the cervical and lumbar regions this projection may merely obliterate the normal concavity. The spinous process which forms the apex of the projection belongs to the vertebra above the one which is crushed. There are seldom marked signs of pressure on the cord, but the nerves emerging in relation to the damaged vertebrae may be bruised, and give rise to girdle-pain. Local tenderness is elicited on pressing over the affected vertebrae or on the head and shoulders. As might be expected from the nature of the accident producing this lesion, it is often associated with serious injuries to the head, limbs, or internal organs which gravely affect the prognosis. The treatment consists in taking the pressure off the injured vertebrae in order that the reparative material may be laid down in such a way as to restore the integrity of the column. In the cervical region extension is applied to the head and a roller-pillow placed beneath the neck. In the dorsal and lumbar regions the extension is applied through the lower limbs, and the pillow placed under the loins. The patient is confined to lied for six or eight weeks, and before he gets up a poroplastic or plaster of Paris jacket is applied. This is worn for a month or six weeks. Traumatic Spondylitis.—After compression fractures a condition known as “traumatic spondylitis” is liable to develop. It is probably due to the callus thrown out for the repair of the On careful examination Fig. 12.—Compression Frac- ture of Bodies of Third ami Fourth Lumbar Vertebral.