439 MALIGNANT STRICTURE. appendicitis may prove a source of difficulty in diagnosis. The rupture of the abscess may be followed by the development of a fajcal fistula. The sites of malignant stricture may be stated in order of frequency thus: pelvic colon, caecum, descending colon, transverse colon, splenic and hepatic flexures, small intestine. Clinical Features.—It is a remarkable fact that a malignant stricture of the colon, in which the lumen of the bowel is reduced to the size of a crow-quill, or even smaller, is often attended with so few symptoms that the condition may remain un- suspected until the onset of acute obstruction. During the latent period the patient may complain of flatulent distension, of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move, and of paroxysmal pains in the abdomen, loin, and back. Constipation is the commonest complaint, and the lower the seat of the tumour in the colon the more pronounced is it, because of the greater solidity of the intestinal contents. He may have attacks of diarrhoea alternating with constipation, and even slight threatenings of obstruction with considerable periods of comfort between the attacks. The passage of blood and mucus by the rectum, or the presence of traces of blood in the stools, is suggestive of cancer in the descending colon or sigmoid. Loss of flesh and of strength may be altogether absent, and is rarely sufficiently marked to afford grounds for suspecting malignant disease. If the abdominal walls are thick or loaded with fat, or if there is some general distension of the bowels, external examination usually yields negative results. Under favourable conditions, however, it may be possible to recognise a tumour, and to venture an opinion as to the segment of the bowel it affects, from its situation, its degree of mobility, its behaviour when the colon is filled from the rectum, and from other clinical features. The tumour which is felt on examination, may not be the strictured segment of bowel, but a mass of omentum, or another coil of bowel which is adherent to it. Growths at the splenic or hepatic flexures, being under cover of the ribs, cannot be detected unless displaced. Tumours in the caecum and ascending colon can often be palpated. A growth in the sigmoid is usually more or less fixed in the left iliac fossa, but, if the mesentery be long and free, it may be found near the centre or on the right side of the abdomen. A growth in the transverse colon is usually placed centrally. A malignant stricture low down in the sigmoid may be recognised on bimanual examination, or may be seen with the aid of a long rectal speculum. When the disease produces a sufficient degree of stenosis to cause secondary changes in the bowel above, these