THE (ESOPHAGUS. 238 there is bleeding, followed by severe attacks of coughing and expectoration of blood-stained mucus. When the cesophagus is perforated, diffuse cellulitis of the neck or of the posterior medi- astinum may ensue. In the treatment of these injuries the chief point is to give the cesophagus rest by feeding the patient for a few days entirely by the rectum. Swallowing of Caustics. — The oesophagus is frequently damaged by the patient swallowing strong chemicals, such as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, carbolic acid, or caustic potash. These escharotic substances usually produce their worst effects at the two ends of the cesophagus, but in some cases the whole length of the tube suffers. The mucous membrane alone may be destroyed, or the muscular and even the fibrous coats may also be implicated. The damaged tissue undergoes necrosis, and when the sloughs separate, raw surfaces are left, and are very slow to heal. If not rapidly fatal from shock and concomitant lesions of the air-passages, these injuries are usually attended 'with intense pain, severe thirst, and vomiting of blood. Shreds of mucous membrane of varying size are often ejected in the vomit. There is pain on swallowing, and not infrequently complications such as cellulitis, perforation of the oesophagus, or peri-oesophageal abscess follow. Later, cicatricial contraction takes place at the injured portions, producing one of the most intractable forms of fibrous stricture. The treatment consists in administering fluids which will neutralise the poison taken, for example, solutions of carbonate of potash, of soda, or of magnesia when an acid has been swallowed, or vinegar diluted with water in the case of an alkali. When carbolic acid has been swallowed, the patient should have a large quantity of olive oil administered. The stomach should be washed out with a copious stream of water, the stomach tube being passed with the greatest gentleness to avoid perforating the softened oesophageal wall. Subsequently the patient should be fed for some days by the rectum. As soon as the ulceration of the oesophagus has healed, say in three or four weeks, conical gum-elastic bougies should be passed every three or four days to prevent cicatricial contraction. As the calibre of the tube is restored, the instruments may be passed less frequently, but for some years—it may be for the rest of the patient’s life—a full-sized bougie should be passed at least once a month. The oesophagus is rarely injured by the swallowing of hot fluids, as the effects seldom extend beyond the pharynx.