233 ADENOMATOUS GOITRE. or more newly-formed nodules of thyroid tissue. These nodules are enclosed within a capsule and constitute true adenomata. The rest of the gland may be unaffected, or it may be the seat of a diffuse hypertrophy. The adenomata vary greatly in size. Some are solid, others undergo cystic degeneration, the glandular tissue being replaced by a quantity of clear or yellowish ffuid, sometimes mixed with blood. The cysts thus formed may be unilocular or multilocular, and intra-cystic papillary vegetations frequently grow from their walls. The walls of the cysts may be thin, soft and flaccid, or thick and firm, or they may even be calcified. Clinically the tumour is firm and nodular, and the more superficial nodules may be felt to move within the gland. When deeply placed they may not be palpable through the skin, yet they may give rise to serious symptoms by pressing on the air-passages, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, or the oesophagus. Fluctuation may be detected in the cystic adenoma. Treatment.—As this variety is not amenable to medicinal measures, the only treatment is to enucleate the adenomatous nodules from the gland. Enucleation can usually be carried out through the transverse curved incision. The healthy thyroid tissue covering the nodule or cyst is incised and the tumour shelled out. The recurrent laryngeal nerve is seldom disturbed, but the operation may be attended with considerable lnemorrhage, which in some cases can only be arrested by plugging. Treatment of Sudden Dyspnoea.—In cases where dyspnoea suddenly supervenes and threatens life, it is sometimes possible to relieve the pressure on the trachea by making an incision in the middle line of the neck, dividing the deep fascia, and allowing the goitre to protrude through the wound. If this is insufficient the isthmus may be divided. Should relief not follow, tracheotomy must be performed, and a long tube, or a large-sized gum-elastic catheter with a terminal aperture, passed into the trachea beyond the seat of obstruction. Carcinoma and sarcoma are sometimes met with in the thyroid, and constitute what is known as malignant goitre. The tumour usually develops in a gland which has been the seat of goitre for several years, although it may begin in a previously healthy gland. Clinical Features.—In many cases it is impossible to distin- guish clinically between carcinoma and sarcoma of the thyroid. Sometimes, however, a differential diagnosis is possible. In carcinoma the swelling of the thyroid is densely hard, and increases rapidly, infiltrating and surrounding the air-passages,