RUPTURE OF THE LIVER. 457 convex surface of the right lobe, recourse must he had to the trans- pleural route. Portions of certain ribs—usually the seventh and eighth —are resected in the mid-axillary line, the pleural cavity traversed, and the diaphragm divided. Injuries. — It has been shown experimentally that under aseptic conditions wounds of the liver heal readily, and also that there is great capacity of regeneration in liver tissue. Penetrating wounds of the liver result from stabs and gunshot injuries. They are dangerous chiefly on account of haemorrhage, the blood escaping externally as well as into the peritoneal cavity. Death may take place rapidly if the portal vein is wounded, as in the well-known case of President Carnot. There is rarely any escape of bile from the wound unless the patient survive for several days. The treatment con- sists in enlarging the external wound in order to expose the injured liver. The haemorrhage is ar- rested by approxi- mating the edges of the wound by sutures of thick catgut passed deeply through the liver substance, and superficial sutures of fine silk passed through the divided capsule. Plugging the wound with gauze should only be had recourse to where sutures fail to arrest the haemorrhage. Subcutaneous Injuries — Rupture of the Liver.—Rupture of the liver is a comparatively common accident as a result of such injuries as a fall from a height on to the feet, a blow from the shaft of a cart, a crush by the wheel of a waggon, or violent flexion of the body. The rupture assumes the form of a tear of the capsule and of the liver substance, and usually implicates the right lobe (Fig. 104). In extreme cases a large portion, or even an entire lobe, may be torn off and lie free in the peritoneal cavity. The condition, if left to nature, is usually fatal as a result of Inemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, or at a later stage from absorption of bile (cholsemia). Less frequently death results from liver-cell embolism. Fig. 104.—Rupture of Right Lobe of Liver from a crush between buffers.