588 THE URINARY BLADDER. and with the advent of organisms from the kidneys, the intes- tine, or an infected catheter, there ensues an insidious form of septic peritonitis which usually develops about the third day. Death occurs from a combination of septic and urinary poisoning. Extra-peritoneal rupture is met with under two sets of con- ditions. In the first variety the bladder is over-distended, and is ruptured by localised violence applied to the lowest part of the abdomen, the tear being situated in the anterior wall below the reflection of the peritoneum. The bladder collapses, and the urine escapes into the cellular tissue of the space of Retzius, and as the amount of urine increases, it infiltrates the cellular tissue upwards towards the navel, outwards as far as the anterior iliac spine on either side, and downwards behind the symphysis as far as the neck of the bladder. The second variety is associated with fracture of the pelvis, and the bladder—which is not necessarily distended at the time of the injury—is torn, usually by the outer fragment of the horizontal ramus of the pubes, sometimes by the body of the pubes when the symphysis is forced asunder, rarely by traction on the anterior ligaments of the bladder. The tear is usually situated in the anterior wall close to the neck, and the urine escapes into the cellular tissue around the neck; it may then ascend towards the abdominal wall, or infiltrate the cellular tissue of the pelvis and accumulate between the bladder and the rectum. Bacterial infection usually occurs later than in the intra- peritoneal rupture, and results in a diffuse septic cellulitis which follows the track of the extravasated urine. Clinical Features.—Apart from cases associated with fractured pelvis—an injury which should always excite suspicion of a rupture of the bladder—it is a remarkable fact that this lesion is frequently overlooked. This error is more likely to occur in intoxicated individuals, and in those who have sustained the lesion in a street brawl or accident, and are brought to hospital without a reliable statement of what has taken place. As in other abdominal injuries the degree of shock varies, and the patient may be able to walk, although he is rarely able to stand erect. If the patient is conscious he complains of hypo- gastric pain and tenderness, and of a desire to pass water but is unable to do so. A catheter is easily introduced, but although the bladder may not have been emptied for many hours, only a few drops of blood-stained urine are drawn off. If a rigid catheter be employed the bladder is usually recognised to be contracted, and the point of the instrument is restricted in the range of