ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 417 minute perforations like pinholes, through which the fluid contents escaped under considerable pressure. It is an interesting fact that the phenomena above described may be met with apart from any mechanical obstruction of the bowel, as for example in embolism of the mesenteric blood- vessels. When the obstruction is gradual and incomplete, as in the case of stricture, the lumen of the bowel is narrowed, but not occluded, and the contents pass with difficulty. The intestine below is empty and contracted. The bowel above is not merely distended, but its walls are hypertrophied as the result of persistent efforts to drive the contents through the narrowed segment of the gut (Fig. 98). The hypertrophy is most marked in the case of the small intestine, its coats becoming thicker and firmer, chiefly from hypertrophy of the circular muscular fibres. In the case of the large intestine distension is more prominent than hyper- trophy, and the colon may attain enormous dimensions—as much as a foot in diameter. The mucous membrane is in a condition of chronic catarrh, and this may be associated with ulceration—partly mechanical as a result of the pressure of fsecal masses, but chiefly bacterial in origin and associated with decomposition of the contents. Sometimes the ulceration extends through the wall of the bowel, and results in perforation either into the peritoneal cavity or into the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue. Clinical Features.—Following the classical description of Treves, cases of intestinal obstruction may be grouped into three classes: (1) cases of acute obstruction; (2) cases of chronic ob- struction ; and (3) cases in which symptoms of acute obstruction supervene on those which characterise the chronic form. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—The attack is sudden in onset, and in the majority of instances no exciting cause is apparent. The patient is seized with severe abdominal pain, which is usually referred to the region of the umbilicus, sometimes to the seat of the obstruction. The patient may be “ doubled up ” by the pain, or roll in anguish on the floor. The pain is of the nature of colic, and is usually constant, although liable to exacerbations. There is, at first at least, little if any tenderness of the abdomen. In the more severe cases the patient is collapsed, in a state of great depression, with pallor, sunken eyes, a rapid, feeble pulse, a cold sweat over the face, and sighing respiration. Vomiting appears early, and is one of the most distressing and persistent symptoms. The ejected matter is at first composed of the contents of the stomach, later it becomes bilious, and still later VOL. II—27