676 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. The treatment consists in removing the cause when this can be discovered, improving the general health of the patient, applying soothing applications during the attacks, and wearing a suspensory bandage. It is only in extreme cases which have resisted all other treatment that the testis should be removed. Atrophy of one or both testes may result from injury of the gland, or from inflammatory conditions following gonorrhoea, syphilis, mumps, typhoid, or other infective diseases. It may also occur when the vascular or nerve supply of the organ is interfered with in any way, as for example in severe injuries of the spermatic cord. It is especially liable to occur if the vas is ruptured. The glandular elements degenerate and the stroma shrivels up, and the organ is merely represented by a small nodule of connective tissue. The epididymis and the structures of the cord may share in the atrophic process, or the epididymis may remain intact and be distinctly palpable behind the remains of 'the testis. The Seminal Vesicles. Surgical Anatomy.—These are hollow sacculated structures, about two inches in length, situated, one on either side of the middle line, between the bladder and rectum, and behind the prostate. Each vesicle is inclined from above downwards and inwards, forming an acute angle with its fellow. The upper and outer extremity is partly covered by peritoneum ; the lower extremity becomes constricted to form a short duct which joins the vas deferens at an acute angle to form the common ejaculatory duct which opens into the floor of the prostatic urethra. The epithelial lining of the vesicle is columnar, and secretes a fluid having an opalescent appearance ; the fluid nourishes the spermatozoa during their sojourn in the vesicle. The vesicle serves as a storehouse for the spermatic fluid, which is ejected during the sexual act into the posterior urethra by the contraction of the muscular fibres in its wall acting in unison with those of the prostate. The seminal vesicles are palpated by the finger-tip pressed against that portion of the rectal wall which lies over them. The patient stands leaning over a chair in the attitude already described for the examination of the prostate. The extended forefinger is passed into the rectum, the other fingers are flexed into the palm, and their knuckles exert pressure on the perineum between the rami of the pubis, so as to enable the forefinger to penetrate more deeply. The other hand exerts counter pressure above the pubes. The vesicles are not easily identified by the finger unless they are distended with fluid, or are indurated by inflam- mation or tuberculous disease. Inflammation—Vesiculitis.—This usually results from the extension of a gonorrhoeal infection from the posterior urethra; gonococci alone may be concerned, or they may be associated with other pyogenic organisms. Both vesicles are commonly involved.