520 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. fistulous track is infected secondarily. Statistics seem to show that while fistula is by no means common in phthisical patients, a considerable number of those who suffer from fistula subse- quently develop tuberculosis. The complete form is that most frequently met with. It differs from the ordinary pyogenic fistula, chiefly in being situated towards the anterior, rather than towards the posterior part of the rectum, and in being for the most part painless and insensitive. The track of the fistula is markedly indurated, the discharge thin, pale, and watery, and the skin around the opening is usually undermined and of a bluish colour. In many cases the diagnosis can only be made with certainty by bacteriological examination of a scraping of the wall of the channel. Treatment.—The only satisfactory method of treating fistula- in-ano is to lay the whole length of the track, and all its burrowings, freely open, in order that they may be thoroughly disinfected and made to heal from the bottom. In doing so the internal sphincter should be injured as little as possible to avoid the risk of incontinence. If it be necessary to divide the external sphincter, the muscular fibres should be cut straight across, and not obliquely, and they should not be cut at more than one place. To ensure sound healing it is essential that the internal opening of the fistula be found and laid open. In a complete fistula a flexible probe or director is passed along the track from the external to the internal opening. A finger is then introduced into the rectum, and when the end of the probe is felt it is bent and withdrawn through the anus. A curved probe-pointed bistoury is passed along its track, and the bridge of tissue between the probe and the surface cut through. The walls of the fistula are then scraped with a sharp spoon and sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and the wound packed with iodoform worsted. A careful search is made for any lateral offshoots from the main track, and if found these are opened up and treated in the same way. The wound must be dressed frequently to prevent septic complications, and must be packed so that it heals from the bottom. A blind external fistula, when superficial to the internal sphincter, should be converted into a complete fistula by passing a probe along its track, and forcing it through the mucous membrane at the upper end. The track is then laid freely open and treated in the manner above described. If the fistula passes deeply into the iscliio-rectal fossa, and approaches the rectum above and outside the internal sphincter, it should not be opened into the rectum, as this would necessitate dividing