521 ANAL FISSURE. the internal sphincter. The external sinus should be freely enlarged, purified, and packed. A blind interned fistula, if submucous and below the internal sphincter, is rendered complete and slit up. If the internal opening passes through or above the internal sphincter the fistula should be rendered complete, but should not be slit up. The external part is opened freely and thoroughly packed in the hope that the internal opening may close. Tuberculous fistulce are treated on the same principle as other forms, provided the general condition of the patient warrants operation. Anal Fissure.—This term is applied to a small irritable ulcer situated close to the anal orifice. The sore is usually elliptical or pear-shaped, and lies in one of the folds into which the integument around the anus is thrown by the contraction of the external sphincter. It is almost always single, and varies in length from a quarter to one inch, its narrow upper end being situated on the mucous membrane, reaching to the lower border of the internal sphincter ; while its broader, lower end may extend on to the skin and overlie the external sphincter. In depth the sore varies from a superficial abrasion of the mucous membrane to an ulcer which exposes, or may even invade, the muscular fibres of the external sphincter. The edges are usually inflamed and elevated, and curl in over the feeble granulations which cover the base of the ulcer. At the lower end of the fissure there is frequently an cedematous or hypertrophied tag of skin simulating an external pile, and named by Brodie the sentinel pile. The most common cause of these ulcers is laceration of the mucous membrane by the passage of hard faecal masses or foreign bodies, or, in women, over-stretching of the mucous membrane of the anterior rectal wall during parturition. Ac- cording to Ball, in the majority of cases the initial lesion is a tear or rupture of one of the crypts of Morgagni, and the swollen and cedematous margins of the valve constitute the sentinel pile. Fissure may be associated with piles, polypus, fistula, or other rectal affections. Clinical Features.—Fissure is usually met with in adult life, and is, on the whole, more common in women than in men. When it occurs in' childhood it is usually a result of inherited syphilis. The most characteristic symptoms are intense pain during and after defecation, and spasmodic contraction of the sphincters and levator ani muscles. In the early stages, while the ulcer is comparatively superficial, the pain is of an