510 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. together, and patches of the mucous membrane may undergo necrosis and leave a large irregular ulcer extending over a con- siderable area of the rectal wall. It is characteristic of the dysenteric ulcer that the mucous membrane surrounding it is more or less inflamed and swollen. Although perforation seldom occurs, perirectal abscesses and fistuke are not uncommon. The contraction which accompanies the healing of such ulcers may give rise to stenosis of the bowel—dysenteric stricture. Tuberculous ulceration of the rectum is usually met with in patients who suffer from other tuberculous affections, notably pulmonary phthisis, and the organisms may reach the rectum either by being swallowed in the sputum, or by way of the blood- stream. The ulcer is formed by the coalescence and breaking down of tubercle nodules which have developed in the sub- mucous tissue. It is irregular in outline, its edges are thin and undermined, and its base grey and glazed. A characteristic feature is the presence of firm nodules in the mucous membrane surrounding the ulcer. The ulcerative process may lead to per- foration of the bowel and the formation of tuberculous peri- rectal abscesses and fistuke. As a rule the disease tends to persist, but if healing take place, it results in the formation of an irregular stricture of the bowel. Syphilitic Ulceration.—The most common form of syphilitic ulceration is that which results from the breaking down of a gumma originating in the submucous tissue — the so-called ano-rectal syphiloma. The ulcers are circular or serpiginous in outline, and have the punched-out appearance which is character- istic of syphilitic ulcers in other situations. The edges are hard and sharply defined, and the base is covered with a greyish- yellow slough or discharge. These ulcers are usually situated just within the anus, and the surrounding mucous membrane is dense and indurated. Perforation may take place, and peri- rectal abscesses and fistulse develop. Stenosis is a common sequel to the cicatrisation of a syphilitic ulcer. A less common form of ulceration results from the extension to the rectal mucous membrane of perianal cracks and sores. It is seldom justifiable to diagnose an ulcer as syphilitic in the absence of a clear history of infection, of other specific manifestations, or of definite improvement under antisyphilitic treatment. Clinical Features.—The clinical features of these different forms of ulceration vary so little that it is often impossible, apart from the history of the condition, to distinguish between them. The symptoms produced by a given ulcer depend more