174 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. becomes distended with inspissated bile, and forms a movable tumour extending down to or below the level of the umbilicus. Stricture of the ducts can seldom be diagnosed with certainty, and is usually regarded as an instance of impacted calculus, the condition only being recognised after the abdomen is opened. In stricture of the cystic duct the best treatment is to remove the gall-bladder. In stricture of the common duct an opening may be made between the gall-bladder and the intestine (chole- cyst-enterostomy), or between the dilated bile-duct above the stricture and the intestine (choledoch-enterostomy), or, failing either of these, the symptoms may be relieved by incision and drainage of the gall-biadder. Abdominal Abscess.—Ulceration of the wall of the gall- bladder or bile-duct in relation to a stone may result in perfora- tion into the peritoneal cavity, but if the site of perforation is shut off by adhesions from the general cavity, a localised abscess may form, corresponding to the circumscribed abscess so fre- quently met with as a result of appendicitis. The abscess is usually situated in the upper half of the abdomen on the right side. The origin of such an abscess from gall-stones is to be inferred from the antecedent history of biliary colic, and on operating is recognised by the character of the contents of the abscess, which are usually stained with bile pigment derived from the disintegration of the offending gall-stone. The immediate treatment consists in incision and drainage of the abscess, and at a subsequent operation the gall-bladder should be explored and emptied. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—When a large stone is ex- truded by a process of ulceration through the wall of the gall- bladder into the duodenum, it is liable to be grasped by the bowel, and cause symptoms of acute obstruction. The process of ulceration takes place slowly through adhesions between the gall-bladder and the intestine, and after the stone escapes into the bowel the fistulous track between them usually closes spontaneously. The process of ulceration, whereby the stone passes by other than the natural passages into the bowel, may be attended with symptoms so slight in character, that they escape notice, and the onset of intestinal obstruction is the first indication of the transference of the stone. On the other hand there may be a history of pain and tenderness in the region of the gall-bladder, irregular fever, evanescent jaundice, and liamiorrhage from the stomach or bowels. Fistula.—Eistuke not uncommonly result when cases of impacted gall-stone are left to nature. Internal Jistulce are