THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 502 of Morgagni. This line of valves marks the junction of tlie anal canal and rectum proper. Tlie submucous connective tissue is sjiecially loose and lax, and in it run the blood-vessels, lymphatics and nerves of the bowel. The muscular coat is made up of an outer series of longitudinal fibres, the downward continuation of the three longitudinal bands of the colon, and an inner series of circular fibres. At the lower end of the rectum, for about an inch of its length, the circular fibres are larger and more numerous, and constitute the internal sphincter, the terminal fibres of which interlace with thoseof the levatorani and external sphinctermuscles. The nerve-supply of the muscular tunic, including the internal sphincter, is derived from the pelvic sympathetic plexuses. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior haemorrhoidal, and the middle sacral arteries. The veins begin as small, bulbous sacs, situated along the line of the ano-rectal junction, just above the crypts of Morgagni. The blood entering the superior haemorrhoidal veins is carried through the inferior mesenteric vein into the portal circulation, while that collected by the middle and inferior haemorrhoid and middle sacral veins enters the general circulation through the vena cava. The lymphatics of the upper part of the bowel enter the sacral and lumbar glands, while those from the anal and perianal region pass to the inguinal glands. Examination.—A digital and visual examination should be made in all cases in which the patient complains of symptoms referable to the rectum, and the lower bowel should first be washed out by an enema. Tlie examination may be carried out with the patient lying on the left side, in the lithotomy position, or in the knee-elbow position. In many cases it is most satisfactorily made with the patient bending over the back of a chair. Rubber gloves or a finger-stall should be worn, and the finger lubricated with sterilised vaseline from a collapsible tube. In making the examination the surgeon should note in turn the state of parts around the anus, the condition of the sphincters, the mucous membrane of the anal canal and of the rectum beyond the internal sphincter, with special reference to ulceration, swelling, and the presence of sinuses. The condition of the prostate, seminal vesicles, and coccyx should also be noted. On the finger being withdrawn the presence of discharge or blood should be observed. It is possible in this way to explore the lower four inches of the bowel. When a higher examination is called for a general anaesthetic should be administered and the sphincters gently stretched. To inspect the anal canal an ordinary rectal speculum is employed, but when it is necessary to investigate the rectum and pelvic colon, a speculum such as that devised by Kelly, is necessary. Congenital Malformations.—Development.—The rectum and anal canal are developed independently of one another. The rectum is developed from the posterior part of the hind gut, partly from the hypoblast, and partly from the mesoblast. In the early embryo the hind gut is represented by a cul-de-sac, named the cloaca, into which open the genito-urinary ducts. During the second month of intra-uterine life the cloaca becomes divided into two compartments by the growth of a