220 THE NECK. Homicidal wounds~are most commonly inflicted upon infants and children. They are usually more directly transverse, and are of equal depth throughout. The main vessels are generally divided and the oesophagus and trachea opened into. In some cases the spinal canal is opened and the cord and its membranes injured. As the assailant usually succeeds in his object, it .is unnecessary to refer further to homicidal wounds. In a large proportion of suicidal attempts the patient only succeeds in inflicting one or more comparatively superficial wounds across the front of the neck. In many cases the haemorrhage from these is trifling, but if the external jugular and other large superficial veins be divided, it may be fairly profuse, although it is seldom fatal. The contraction of the platysma causes such wounds to gape widely, and their edges tend to be turned in. If the depressor muscles of the hyoid and larynx are divided, there may be some interference with deglutition and phonation, but respiration is not affected. The thyro-hyoid membrane is frequently divided, and the pharynx thus opened. In such cases the upper portion of the epiglottis is often cut off, and the base of the tongue, the tonsil or the soft palate may be injured. The lingual, facial, and superior thyroid arteries and the hypoglossal nerve are also liable to be divided at this level, but the main vessels of the neck usually escape. There is pain and difficulty in swallowing, and food and saliva tend to escape through the wound. Particles of food may pass into the air-passages and cause violent fits of coughing. In more severe cases the knife enters the air-passages. Sometimes the thyroid cartilage is divided — as a rule only partially—and the vocal cords are injured; in other cases the trachea is opened, or it may be completely cut across. The bleeding is always serious, as the superior thyroid arteries are usually damaged. Not infrequently the common carotid and the internal jugular vein are also wounded, in which case the haemorrhage usually proves fatal. The fatal issue may be con- tributed to by blood entering the air-passages and causing asphyxia, or by air being sucked into the open veins and causing air embolism. The laryngeal branches of the vagus may be divided and paralysis of the larynx ensue. In all cases there is more or less dyspnoea and persistent coughing. The voice is husky, and the patient can only express himself in a hoarse whisper. There is difficulty in swallowing, and the food may enter the air-passages. When the external