547 ABNORMAL MOBILITY. Congenital Anomalies of the Ureter.—Abnormal origin of the ureter from the pelvis of the kidney, with the formation of a valve at the orifice, is an important cause of hydronephrosis. Double ureter is met with in a variety of forms. There may be two complete ureters draining the one kidney and opening separately into the bladder, or the ureter may only be double at its upper end. In cases of double ureter, hydronephrotic and pyonephritic processes are liable to occur, and may be confined to one segment of the affected kidney. This may result, for example, from abnormal termination of the supernumerary tube, the lower end of which may be so narrow, or may pass so obliquely through the wall of the bladder, that the outflow through it is interfered with and there results a hydronephrosis of the portion of kidney drained by it. In other cases the intra- mural portion of the ureter becomes distended into a cyst, which may interfere with the emptying of the bladder by projecting like a tumour into its interior, or may even compress the normal ureter of the opposite side. In some cases the supernumerary tube does not open into the bladder at all. In the male it may open into the prostatic urethra or seminal vesicle, but as the opening is controlled by the sphincter muscles, it does not cause any abnormality in micturition, and the condition is practically never diagnosed during life. In the female it may open into the urethra, vagina, or vestibule, and cause a continuous drib- bling of urine, which is beyond the control of the patient. The usual history in such cases is that from childhood there has been a minor degree of incontinence or dribbling, although the patient is able to pass urine in a normal stream when she wishes to do so. This is pathognomonic of one ureter opening into the bladder and of an additional one opening into the urethra, and the diagnosis is completed by recognising the abnormal opening. If operative treatment is called for, the abdomen should be opened, the supernumerary ureter cut across and inserted by a fresh opening into the bladder. Abnormal Mobility and Acquired Displacements of the Kidney—Nephroptosis.—A kidney which moves abnormally freely behind the peritoneum is said to be movable; one which moves forwards, or floats, towards the anterior abdominal wall is spoken of as a wandering or floating kidney. In the second variety the peritoneum and the layer of perinephric fascia in front of the kidney become loosened and the renal vessels elongated; a meso-nephron is extremely rare. The suprarenal capsule does not accompany the kidney in its wanderings. Movable kidney is chiefly met with in women between the