467 BILIARY COLIC. bile-ducts interfering with the flow of bile into the intestine, and possibly also to a damming back of the bile as the result of the contractions of the gall-bladder and bile-ducts. It occasionally happens that the stone passes from the cystic into the common duct, in which case the jaundice is a little more marked, and lasts till the stone is passed into the duodenum. Such a stone may be found in the motions if these are mixed with water and strained through a sieve. If the stone is faceted, it indicates that there are probably other stones in the gall-bladder. Every attack of biliary colic is probably attended with inflammation of the gall-bladder—cholecystitis. Recurrent Biliary Colic.—The seizures of pain recur at irregular intervals over months or years—it may be over as long a period as twenty years—and besides causing great suffering, may interfere with the patient’s occupation and with the ordinary duties of life. The onset of the seizures may be determined by the ingestion of food, by muscular exertion, by coughing or vomiting, or in some cases by the disturbance of the abdominal contents which attends parturition. Sometimes the attacks are due to a recrudescence of inflammation in the gall-bladder, and they may follow upon any condition likely to favour this. In the interval between. the attacks the patient may enjoy normal health, or may suffer from a sensation of weight or dragging and other discomforts, and may have to restrict the diet and refrain from exertion. In such cases there may be only one stone in the gall-bladder, and around this the viscus is firmly contracted; or there may be a number of stones, of which one is occasionally passed by the natural channels, although this is exceptional. In cases where the cystic duct is blocked, the gall-bladder, whether distended with stones or with mucus, may be felt as an abdominal tumour. In cases where there is a history of recurrent biliary colic lasting for months or years, the bladder is usually small and contracted, and is so deeply placed beneath the liver that it is out of reach of the examining fingers. There is always, however, tenderness beneath the costal margin or between it and the umbilicus. The affection is to be diagnosed from renal colic, and from painful affections in the vicinity of the pylorus. Prognosis.—Apart from causing continued suffering and ill- health, gall-stones which are allowed to remain in the bladder may at any time become complicated by effects of pyogenic infection which are dangerous to life. Further, they may by their irritation eventually determine the growth of cancer. Treatment.—This must always be directed, not only to the