300 THE BREAST. the blood-stream to the lungs, liver, brain or other internal organs. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the axillary glands on the same lines as for carcinoma, but in the rapidly growing varieties the prognosis is extremely unfavourable. Carcinoma.—In the great majority of cases carcinoma of the breast originates in the epithelium of the acini, and the tumour is made up of masses of atypical epithelial cells surrounded by a varying amount of connective tissue. While it is convenient for clinical purposes to distinguish between different forms of cancer of the breast according to the relative amount of the epithelial and connective-tissue elements present, the disposition of these elements, the rate of growth of the tumour, and the extent to which it implicates the corpus mammae, it is to be borne in mind that these forms are merely variations of one and the same disease. Females suffer from cancer of the breast more frequently than males in the proportion of something like fifty to one. The age incidence varies in different forms. In a considerable pro- portion of cases the patient has previously suffered from puer- peral mastitis and mammary abscess. In some instances there is a definite history of a blow or other injury preceding the appearance of the tumour. The importance of the role played by these antecedent conditions is difficult to determine. There is evidence in favour of the view that there is an hereditary proclivity to the disease. Scirrhous Carcinoma.—This is by far the most common form of cancer of the breast. In it the connective-tissue elements predominate, while the masses of epithelial cells are compara- tively few in number and small in size. Towards the centre of the tumour the epithelial clusters are compressed by contraction of the young fibrous tissue, and they undergo fatty degeneration. Towards the periphery the stroma is less dense and the epi- thelial masses are larger and more numerous. They fill the smaller acini, and, after bursting through the basement mem- brane, invade the lymph spaces of the stroma. The tissues immediately surrounding the tumour are usually infiltrated with leucocytes. On a section being made through the tumour there is a char- acteristic creaking sensation as the knife divides the tissue, and the cut surfaces become slightly concave owing to contraction of the dense fibrous tissue in the centre of the growth. Towards the centre, the section presents a greyish-white, striated appear- ance, closely resembling that of an unripe pear, and there are