538 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. covering the protrusion is not continuous with the skin around the anus. Treatment.—The reduction of a prolapse, for example in a child, is best effected by raising the patient’s pelvis—a good method is to have the child held up by the heels—smearing the protrusion with vaseline, and applying gentle pressure over the apex of the cone. After the mass has slipped through the anus, a soft pad is placed between the nates and fixed securely in position by a T-shaped bandage, or the buttocks may be pressed together and held in this position by a series of strips of adhesive plaster passed from one trochanter to the other. The patient should remain recumbent for an hour or two after reduction. With regard to the further treatment, the first step is to discover, and, if possible, remove the cause of the condition. The general health of the patient must be improved, and the muscular system braced up. Constipation or any other existing cause of straining must be corrected, and means taken to ensure easy and regular movement of the bowels. Injections of ice-cold water, or of astringent lotions, such as tannic acid, alum, or sulphate of iron, are sometimes useful. The patient should be made to defecate while lying on the back or on the side. If the bowels are costive a small injection of olive oil will facilitate passage. In children these preventive and palliative measures usually suffice, and it is seldom necessary to have recourse to operative treatment. In adults, on the other hand, it is, as a rule, only by opera- tive measures that a cure can be effected, and various procedures are employed according to the severity of the condition. In moderately severe cases the lower three or four inches of the mucous membrane may be cauterised by making a series of longitudinal eschars with a thermo-cautery. Care must be taken not to destroy the whole thickness of the mucous membrane, lest septic infection of the sub-mucous layer be set up. In more severe cases a series of elliptical pieces of mucous membrane may be excised and the edges of the wounds united with catgut sutures. When these measures are inappropriate or have failed, the whole of the prolapsed segment of the bowel may be excised, and the divided upper edge pulled down and sutured to the anal margin. Special care must be taken to return any portion of bowel which may be herniated into the prolapsed portion of peritoneum before proceeding with this operation. This can usually be effected by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position. If possible the peritoneal pouch should not be opened;