144 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. great majority of pyogenic inflammations of the jaws originate in relation to carious teeth, beginning as a periodontitis which is followed by the formation of an alveolar abscess. It has already been mentioned that these conditions may cause diffuse periostitis which leads to necrosis of considerable portions of bone. It is probable that the different forms of periostitis and ostitis of the jaws previously attributed to the special poisons of scarlet, typhoid, and other exanthematous fevers, and those associated with mercurial and phosphorus poisoning, are also due to ordinary septic infection, and that the general disease merely reduces the patient’s power of resistance, and so acts as a condition favouring the growth of pyogenic bacteria. Acute osteomyelitis occasionally attacks the jaws. It is more common in the lower than in the upper jaw, and it usually begins near the angle. Pus rapidly forms under the periosteum, and a considerable area of bone may undergo necrosis. In cancrum oris also the maxi 1 he are frequently attacked and undergo necrosis. Phosphorus Necrosis.—A diffuse form of suppurative peri- ostitis, ending in necrosis, is occasionally met with in the jaws— usually the lower—of those who work in match factories and other places where yellow phosphorus is used. It was for long believed that the disease was essentially due to the action of the phosphorus fumes on the bone. The affection always begins in relation to carious roots or empty sockets. It is now generally recognised that this condition, like the other inflammatory diseases of the jaws, is due to the action of micro-organisms, and that the effect of the phosphorus is merely to lower the vitality of the bone and so render it a more suitable soil for the bacteria. Having isolated the tubercle bacillus from all the cases he has examined, Stockman is of opinion that the disease is tuberculous in nature. Other observers believe that it is due to ordinary pyogenic bacteria. In the early stages the clinical features resemble those of periodontitis and alveolar abscess. As the disease progresses, there is profuse suppuration under the periosteum, the bone undergoes necrosis, and a peculiarly porous sequestrum of a gray or greenish colour forms. The sequestrum, which may include almost the whole of the bone, is exceedingly slow to separate, and the process is accompanied by an excessive development of periosteal new bone. The face becomes oedematous and swollen, and one or more sinuses may form. The substitution of red for yellow phosphorus, and the systematic examination of the teeth of match-makers imposed