CYSTITIS. 593 The organisms cause cystitis directly by the action of their toxins on the mucous membrane, or indirectly by the changes which they bring about in the urine. Changes in the Bladder.—The inflammatory changes in acute cystitis are most marked in the region of the neck of the bladder, and they affect chiefly the mucous membrane, which is intensely congested—of a brilliant scarlet when seen with the cystoscope-^and may show minute hamiorrhages. Pus and flakes of fibrin adhere to the surface and float in the urine, and shedding of the epithelium may result in the formation of small superficial ulcers. In.chronic cystitis the inflammatory changes extend throughout the whole thickness of the bladder wall and result in cirrhosis, whereby the elasticity of the organ may be much impaired. The mucous membrane is of a slate or violet colour, is often roughened or villous, and bleeds readily, or it may be the seat of ulcers ; when the urine is ammoniacal the surface is covered with a foul-smelling layer of phosphates and decom- posing pus. In streptococcal infections the walls of the bladder may be studded with minute abscesses. The entire mucous membrane may necrose and slough off, as for example in the cystitis which attends retroversion of the gravid uterus— the condition being spoken of as membranous and gangrenous cystitis. The condition of the muscular coat and the capacity of the organ vary with the condition of which the cystitis is a com- plication, and will be considered under the chapters on stone, tumour, enlarged prostate and stricture. It may be noted, however, that where there is a long-standing obstruction to the outflow of urine the bundles of muscle-fibres may stand out in interlacing columns—fasciculated bladder (Fig. 140)—while the mucous membrane may be herniated between the columns forming cysts or pouches in which the urine stagnates and decomposes, thus favouring the formation of stone. VOL. II—38 Fin. 140.—Fasciculated Bladder result- ing from enlarged prostate.