132 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. chlorate of potash, or boro-glyceride. The superficial ulcers may be touched with silver nitrate or with a 1 per cent, solution of chromic acid. Ulcerative stomatitis is frequently met with in debilitated subjects with decayed teeth, who neglect to keep the mouth clean. It is specially liable to occur during the course of acute febrile diseases in which sordes accumulate about the teeth and gums. It is also symptomatic of scurvy and secondary syphilis, and of poisoning by mercury, lead, and phosphorus. Mercurial stomatitis may occur during the therapeutic administration of mercury. Some patients show a special susceptibility to the drug, and one of the first sigus of intolerance is some degree of stomatitis, which may ensue after a comparatively small quantity has been administered. It begins on the gums, which become tender, swollen and spongy, and bleed readily. A greenish discoloration appears on the teeth at the edge of the gum, and the teeth may become loose and fall out. In severe cases the alveolar margin of the jaw may undergo necrosis. There is also profuse salivation, and the breath has a character- istically offensive odour. The treatment consists in removing the cause, and in employ- ing antiseptic and astringent mouth-washes. The internal ad- ministration of chlorate of potash is also indicated, as this drug is excreted in the saliva. Gangrenous stomatitis, or cancrum oris, has already been described. Roof of the Mouth.—Suppuration in the soft tissues of the roof of the mouth is usually secondary to suppuration at the root of a carious tooth. It may also arise in excoriations caused by an ill-fitting tooth-plate, or from the impaction of a foreign body, such as a fish or game bone, in the mucous membrane. The inflammation usually begins close to the alveolus, just behind the incisor teeth, and may spread back along the palate. The muco-periosteum becomes swollen, red, and exceedingly tender, and, as pus forms, is lifted up from the bone. A small rounded abscess forms, and on bursting or being incised gives exit to a quantity of foul - smelling pus. The inflammation speedily subsides after the escape of the pus. The hard palate may be the seat of a syphilitic guvima. It begins as a rounded indolent swelling, which is usually situated in the middle line near the posterior edge of the hard palate. The swelling gradually softens and ulcerates, and a sequestrum may separate and leave a perforation in the palate. The treat- ment consists in employing the usual remedies for tertiary