PERFORATION OF TYPHOID ULCER. 445 sudden onset of intense colic, and in the majority of cases profuse haemorrhage from the bowel and progressive anaemia. In some cases the symptoms are indistinguishable from those of intestinal obstruction, and depend on paralysis of the bowel— a x'esult of the haemorrhagic infarction. This may be recovered from, but there is a great tendency towards gangrene of the bowel and death from septic peritonitis. The diagnosis is always ex- tremely difficult, even when conditions are present which are liable to cause embolism. In all cases the prognosis is very grave. When the abdomen is opened, it is found to contain blood- stained fluid, and a greater or less extent of the small intestine —from a few inches to many feet—is found to be firm, dark, swollen, and rigid like a sausage, while the bowel below is collapsed and empty. At a later stage the affected bowel shows evidence of loss of vitality or of commencing gangrene. Immediate resection of the damaged bowel holds out the only chance of recovery, but in many cases the operation is im- practicable and should not be proceeded with. In thrombosis of the mesenteric veins the anatomical and clinical features are very similar. Perforation of Typhoid Ulcer.—This is one of the most fatal complications of typhoid fever. The perforation may occur in an individual who is going about—suffering from a mild or “ ambulant ” form of the disease—and is then the first distinguishing feature of typhoid. More frequently it occurs in a patient who is under treatment for the disease, usually during the second or third week of the fever, although it may happen during convalescence. Perforation is much more common in men than in women; it is usually solitary, although occasionally multiple, and it is most often situated within the last two or three feet of the ileum. The clinical features are marked by the sudden onset of severe abdominal pain, with collapse and sudden fall of the tempera- ture, followed by signs of peritonitis usually commencing in or referred to the right iliac fossa. There is local tender- ness and rigidity. While these are the classical features of perforation, there is frequently a want of certainty in the diagnosis, and when there is a reasonable doubt, the safe course is to make a small exploratory opening. The sooner this is done the better, as success largely depends on the shortness of the interval between the occurrence of perforation and the operation for its closure. Local anaesthesia is to be preferred. A small incision is made in the vicinity of the right semilunar line. The caecum is identified and examined,