THE TONGUE. 164 lymphatic & disease, it may be advisable to excise the ulcer in order to relieve pain and to permit of the patient taking food. Care must be taken to avoid reinfecting the raw surface of the wound. When excision is impracticable, it is only possible to palliate the symptoms by local anaesthetics and by attending to the hygiene of the mouth and removing all sources of irritation. Syphilitic Affections.—The primary sore of syphilis presents the same characters on the tongue as on other parts of the body. There is always marked enlargement of the submaxillary lands on one or both sides. It is more common in men than in women, infection usually taking place through the medium of tobacco pipes, or im- plements such as the blow-pipes of glass-blowers. During the secondary stage of syphilis—particularly in the later periods—mucous patches are very common. They may appear on any part of the tongue, but are most frequently seen on its edges. They appear as smooth, irregularly rounded or oval areas with a greyish- white covering, the removal of which exposes a smooth, red, Fig. 45.—Tuberculous Ulceration elevated surface. When situ- wliich has destroyed the tip of the ated on the under aspect of the tongue, occurring in a man who t g they often assume a suffered from advanced pulmonary i i , phthisis. condylomatous or warty ap- pearance. As the secretion from these patches is highly contagious, it is necessary to warn the patient of the risk of infecting others by using dishes, cutlery, or pipes in common. If not treated, the surface of a mucous patch may break down, leaving a tortuous or stellate fissure or ulcer, which tends slowly to increase in width and depth. The edges are punched out or undermined, the base raw, sloughy, and devoid of granulations, and the sore is exceedingly tender. After healing, these sores leave puckered scars of a silvery or leaden hue. The treatment consists in employing the usual anti-syphilitic remedies, and in painting the patches with a solution of chromic acid (10 grains to the ounce).