350 APPENDICITIS. of the coils of the lower ileum, to allow of the escape of gas and liquid faeces. If within twenty-four hours there is a decided improvement, especially in the facies and pulse, operation may be deferred; but the patient should be kept under continuous observation, the condition of the pulse and temperature, and the number of leucocytes, being specially noted, and attention paid to any changes taking place in the region of the appendix. Nourish- ment in the form of meat extracts, beef tea, cream, and aerated or barley water, by the mouth, is now permitted, and the action of the bowel is solicited, on or after the third day, by repeated doses of sulphate of soda or by enemata. Hot fomentations may replace the cold local applications. The question of operative interference is now dependent on the occurrence of suppuration within the area which has been shut off by adhesions, or on extension of the septic process to parts beyond the adhesions. If, on the other hand, the symptoms show no signs of improvement at the end of twenty-four or thirty-six hours, and if the pulse, the facies, and the absence of abdominal movements indicate a progressive infection within the belly, it may be assumed that localisation is defective, and whatever the precise anatomical condition of the appendix, the best chance for the patient is to operate on the lines above indicated. The persist- ence of any one of the symptoms of onset is to be regarded as an indication for operative interference. Operative interference for circumscribed suppuration is most often called for from the fifth to the tenth day, when the mass in the iliac fossa, instead of subsiding, becomes larger and more tender, the temperature begins to rise again, the pulse increases in frequency, and the number of leucocytes steadily rises. The operation varies with the situation of the abscess, as determined by careful palpation after the patient is completely anaesthetised. It is a safe rule to cut down upon the abscess where it has been located by physical examination, rather than over the supposed position of the appendix. The simplest condition is that in which an abscess in the iliac fossa has spread towards the surface and become adherent to the anterior abdominal wall. The parietes are incised over the centre of the swelling down to the peritoneum, and the peritoneum cautiously perforated with a blunt instrument such as a dissector. When the pus begins to ooze out, the opening is carefully enlarged with dressing forceps, and after all the pus has been soaked up the abscess cavity is explored. The appendix is