44 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. sinuses. Compound fractures of the skull, particularly punctured fractures, are liable to be followed by intra-cranial complications. Pathology. Meningitis.—When an infective bone lesion is of a mild and slowly progressive character, and remains localised to a small portion of the skull, its effects may be limited to the outer surface of the overlying dura mater, which becomes inflamed and thickened (localised external pachy- meningitis). The inflammatory process may slowly spread to the inner surface of the dura, and thence to the other membranes (localised lepto-meningitis), causing them to adhere to one another. So long as suppuration does not occur, these processes are of little clinical importance, being largely protective in their nature. If, on the other hand, the bacteria are of a virulent character, and are introduced in large numbers, the resulting inflammation is of a diffuse nature, and constitutes an acute general lepto- meningitis, which may be either serous or purulent. In acute serous lepto-meningitis the fluid in the subarachnoid space and cavities of the ventricles is greatly increased in amount. Symptoms of compression ensue, and the disease may speedily prove fatal. In acute suppurative lepto-meningitis the initial hypersemia is quickly followed by the formation of pus, which, on account of the open structure of the arachno-pial membrane, readily finds its way into its utmost recesses. This condition is invariably fatal in from three to four days. Encephalitis.—Infection of the brain tissue may take place either apart from, or, more frequently, along with inflammation of the membranes, and may result in purulent encephalitis or in necrosis of brain tissue. There is a copious exudation of serum and extravasation of leucocytes and red corpuscles into the brain tissue, producing a diffuse swelling of the affected area, and ending in pus formation—purulent encephalitis. Necrosis of the cerebral tissue, resulting in the formation of sloughs, may take place from infective embolism or thrombosis of a large artery or vein, or from the intensity of the inflamma- tion set up by virulent organisms. Abscess.—Pus may form inside the skull either between the bone and the dura mater (extra-dural abscess); between the dura mater and the brain (sub-dural abscess); or in the brain tissue itself (cerebral and cerebellar abscess). Extra-dural abscess usually occurs in association with chronic middle ear disease, and follows a localised suppurative pachy- meningitis resulting from erosion of the tegmen tympani or of the sigmoid groove.