632 THE URETHRA. of superadded septic infection, multiple incisions are made through- out the whole area of extravasation, drainage-tubes inserted, and the cellular tissue irrigated with salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. Urethral Calculus.—A small stone which has come down from the kidney and passed through the bladder may become impacted in the urethra behind the triangular ligament, any- where in the penile portion, or just w'ithin the meatus. The stone may be rounded and flattened like a lentil, or elongated and fusiform like a date stone. In children the impaction usually persists, whereas in adults violent efforts to pass water frequently succeed in expelling the stone. There may be a history of antecedent renal colic, or the first sign of trouble may be a sudden cutting pain during micturition, with arrest of the stream and subsequent retention, due partly to the mechanical obstruction and partly to spasm of the muscle fibres of the urethra. The retention may be absolute, or in the case of small stones may terminate in dribbling of urine which is tinged with blood, and at a later period may be mixed with pus from superadded septic urethritis. If left to nature a peri-urethral abscess forms, and may rupture into the urethra, exposing the patient to the risk of extra- vasation of urine, but more often it ruptures on the skin, and the condition terminates in a urinary fistula. In exceptional cases the stone does not cause retention, and comes to lie “ latent ” in the urethra. In course of time it increases in size by the deposition of phosphates until it may attain the dimensions of a pigeon’s egg, distending the urethra or lodging in a diverticulum. The stone may be palpated through the skin, or may be recognised by passing a full-sized bougie along the urethra. The stone may be passed if the spasm of the urethra be allayed by a hot bath, and the patient make forced attempts to micturate. Otherwise it should be removed without delay, in children under a general anaesthetic, in adults after cocainising the urethra. If the stone lie in the navicular fossa, the meatus is slit downwards, and the stone squeezed out or hooked forwards with a bent scoop or director. If it lie in the penile urethra the best plan is to expose it by a longitudinal incision through the floor of the urethra, as attempts to remove it with forceps by the meatus are liable to damage the mucous membrane and give rise later to stricture. If it lie in the posterior urethra, it may be gently pushed back into the bladder by means of a full-sized bougie, and then crushed with the lithotrite, or it may be cut down upon from the perineum and removed. The wound in the urethra is sutured as already described.