THE URINARY BLADDER. 604 confined to bed for some Lours before the exploration. The urine is drawn off, the bladder filled with boracic solution, and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position. The instru- ment—preferably a combined catheter and sound with a length of beak in proportion to the probable size of the prostate—is then passed. If the stone is free and movable, it is usually struck at once; if not, the sound must be rotated and moved backwards and forwards systematically so as to explore the entire cavity. If the prostate is enlarged, the floor of the retro-prostatic pouch must be raised by a finger in the rectum. When the stone is struck there is a metallic click in the case of uric and oxalic calculi, or a soft grating in those composed of earthy phosphates. In the event of failure to strike the stone, the table is lowered to the horizontal, and the bladder is then allowed to empty itself through the catheter, when the stream may bring the stone against the point of the instrument. An idea of the size of the stone may be gained by drawing the beak of the sound from end to end and then from side to side of it. When the sound fails, a small lithotrite may succeed; its blades should be opened at the most dependent part of the bladder; the pelvis is shaken with the left hand and the stone tends to fall between the blades of the instrument. The cystoscopc is, as a rule, unnecessary, but is often instructive, as it tells the shape, size, and nature of the stone, may reveal an encysted stone, and gives information as to the condition of the bladder. The patient should remain in bed for some time after the exploration. The X-rays are of great value in doubtful or difficult cases, and should be had recourse to when for any reason it is undesirable to introduce an instrument into the bladder. Treatment.—By whatever means it is proposed to remove the stone, the patient should previously be confined to bed for some days, and the urine and bladder brought into the best possible condition. Litholapaxy—introduced by Bigelow in 1878—is the ideal operation in all cases in which it is possible to perform it. Such is the unanimous opinion of those who have had large experience in the treatment of stone. After disinfection of the parts concerned, the patient is anaesthetised and placed, in the Trendelenburg position. The bladder is irrigated with boracic solution, and from six to ten ounces of the fluid left in the bladder. The urethra may require to be dilated with bougies and the meatus incised, in order to permit of the passage of the instruments employed—about Nos. 16-20 of the English scale.