129 EPITHELIOMA OF LIP. Operative interference is attended with considerable risk of diffuse septic inflammation of the lymphangiomatous tissue. It has therefore been recommended that the lymphatic spaces of the swelling should be occluded as far as possible by electrolysis before any cutting operation is undertaken. The operation con- sists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the swelling on the same lines as for “ strumous lip.” Mucous cysts occur as small rounded tumours, growing from the inner surface of the lip. contain a glairy fluid. They are treated by removal of the cyst wall with the overlying portion of mucous membrane. Epithelioma of the Lip is nearly always of the squamous-celled variety, and is met with either as a fun- gating wart-like projection, or as an indurated ulcer. It almost exclusively occurs on the lower lip of men over forty years of age. The growth begins at the junction of the skin and mucous mem- brane and usually near the angle of the mouth (Fig. 37). It may originate in a persist- ent crack or fissure, or in a small papillary hypertrophy. The affection is said to be especially common in those who smoke short clay pipes. It is probable that constant irritation of the lip by the friction of the pipe stem may play some part in determining the excessive growth of epithelium. It is a suggestive fact that, while epithe- lioma of the lip is rare in women, the majority of those who do suffer are smokers. Other persistent forms of irritation—such, for example, as a rough or carious tooth—are frequently present. The ulcer gradually spreads into the substance of the lip, which becomes swollen and indurated. The edges are charac- teristically raised and hard. The raw surface is extremely pain- ful, especially when irritated by hot food or fluids. When the lip is destroyed saliva dribbles from the mouth, the discharge becomes offensive, and the patient may have difficulty in taking VOL. II—9 They are of a bluish colour, and Fig. 37.—Advanced Epithelioma of Lower Lip.