THE EAR. 194 Suppuration in the Mastoid Antrum and Cells, or Acute Suppwrative Mastoiditis.—Acute suppuration may occur in the mastoid antrum in the course of an attack of acute otitis media, or as a result of interference with drainage in chronic suppura- tion of the antrum or middle ear. As the outer wall of the mastoid is liable to be perforated by cario-necrosis, the pus may find its way externally and form an abscess over the mastoid process behind the ear. In some cases the pus escapes into the external auditory meatus by perforating its posterior wall; in others a sinus forms on the inner side of the apex of the mastoid and the pus bur- rows in the digastric fossa under the sterno-mastoid— Bezold’s mastoiditis. If the posterior wall or roof of the antrum is destroyed, intra- cranial complications are liable to ensue. The clinical features are pain behind the ear, tender- ness on pressure or percus- sion over the mastoid, and marked general constitu- tional disturbance. There is usually redness and cede- matous swelling of the skin, and, when pus forms under the periosteum, the oedema may be so great as to dis- Fig. 49.—Acute Suppurative Mastoiditis, place the auricle downwards . with sub-periosteal abscess and great and forwards (Fie 49) oedema of temporal region and face, dis- The d ‘ t °of ^ placing the auricle and closing the eye. . r 1 posterior osseous wall of the meatus may be swollen so that it conceals the upper and back part of the membrane. Treatment.—When arising in connection with acute otitis, the application of several leeches behind the ear, free incision of the membrane, and syringing with hot boracic lotion may be sufficient. As a rule, however, it is necessary to expose the interior of the antrum by opening through the mastoid cells —Schwartze’s operation. In operating for the relief of symptoms in acute cases it is only necessary to open up the mastoid antrum through the cells, and to establish satisfactory drainage by this route. The middle