440 THE INTESTINES. may be of assistance in diagnosis, both as to the nature and as to the site of the growth. Stricture in the caecum or ascending colon is more often attended with distension and exaggerated peristalsis in the lower coils of the ileum than when the seat of obstruction is in the lower colon, but we have seen an organ-pipe pattern of small intestine in malignant stricture as low down as the sigmoid. In stricture of the transverse colon or of the hepatic and splenic flexures, the distension may be more marked in the right flank, while in stricture of the sigmoid the distension is in both flanks. Peristaltic movements of the large bowel are usually too feeble to be visible through the parietes, so that the outline of the distended colon is rarely to be made out, but it is often possible to satisfy oneself that the distension is most marked, and, if the bowel is loaded with faeces, that there is dulness on percussion, in those parts of the abdomen which are normally occupied by the large intestine. The recognition of large masses which indent beneath the fingers may occasionally help to identify the loaded bowel above the stricture. Tenesmus is often present in stricture of the colon low down on the left side. The majority of cases of malignant stricture of the colon first come under observation when obstruction is the prominent feature. The symptoms of obstruction may gradually supervene on those described above, or they may come on suddenly in a patient who has hitherto had no reason to complain of his bowels. The explanation of the abrupt change in the clinical features is not always to be discovered, even on postmortem examination. It may be that the narrowed lumen is suddenly blocked by a faecal mass, that the overtaxed bowel above has become paralysed, or that the affected segment has been bent on itself. It is noteworthy that the acute symptoms have sometimes followed the taking of a strong purgative. The features of the complete obstruction are in no sense characteristic of malignant stricture, and the diagnosis is usually impossible unless a history of the symptoms described above is forthcoming. The seat of the pain is of little diagnostic value. Vomiting is a late symptom, and even towards the end, when it becomes constant, is not very distressing, and does not always become stercoraceous. In some cases there is no vomiting. Hiccough is often trouble- some. Absolute constipation may last for as long as a week or ten days without the symptoms becoming urgent. Ballooning of the rectum—that is, dilatation from, paralysis—is often present in stricture of the descending or sigmoid colon, but is not peculiar to this affection. The abdomen becomes more and more distended, it may be in such a form as to indicate the seat