206 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. and the septum. Before steps are taken to arrest the bleeding, the interior of the nose should, if possible, be inspected and the bleeding point sought for. As a preliminary to the use of local applications the nose should be washed out with boracic lotion or salt solution to remove all clots from the cavity. In many cases this is all that is necessary to stop the bleeding. If the bleeding is not very copious, it may be stopped by applying cold compresses to the face, head and neck, while the alae nasi are firmly grasped between the finger and thumb. If the blood is evidently flowing from the olfactory sulcus, a strip of gauze soaked in adrenalin, turpentine or other styptic should be jracked between the septum and middle turbinated body. If recurrent haemorrhage takes place from the anterior and lower part of the septum, the application of the electric cautery at a dull red heat, or of the chromic acid bead fused on a probe, is the best method of treatment. Plugging of the posterior nares is rarely necessary, as, in the majority of cases, an anterior plug suffices. Suppuration in the Accessory Nasal Sinuses.—As already stated, the presence of pus in the nose should always direct attention to its possible origin in one or more of the accessory sinuses. This is especially the case if the discharge is unilateral, though a bilateral affection may also exist. The condition is usually a chronic one, and may be present for months, or even years, without the patient suffering much inconvenience save from the presence of the discharge. If on examination by anterior rhinoscopy, pus is seen in the middle meatus, suspicion should be aroused of its origin in the antrum of Highmore, frontal sinus, or anterior ethmoidal cells, as all these cavities communicate with that channel. If, on the other hand, the pus is detected in the olfactory sulcus, attention must be directed to the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinus (Fig. 50). Further evidence of its source in the last-named cavities may be gained by finding pus in the superior meatus above the middle turbinal on examination by posterior rhinoscopy. As the anterior group of sinuses is most frequently affected, and of these most commonly the antrum of Highmore, attention should first be turned to this cavity. The complaint of a bad odour or taste, the presence of diseased upper molar teeth, the reappearance of pus in the middle meatus after mopping it away and directing the patient to bend his head well forwards, and opacity on illumination of the suspected cavity are all signs which strongly suggest an affection of the maxillary sinus. Puncture through the thin outer wall of the inferior meatus of