SYPHILITIC TESTIS. 667 common being a gummatous orchitis which occurs during the tertiary stage of acquired syphilis. A similar condition some- times occurs iu young children who have inherited the disease. A syphilitic form of epididymitis is occasionally met with as one of the early signs in the secondary stage. Gummatous Orchitis.—Syphilitic Testis.—This may occur at any period during the tertiary stage of the disease. It may take the form of a diffuse interstitial sclerosis of the connective tissue between the tubules of the testis, or of a localised gumma in the substance of the gland, or these two conditions may be combined. When the sclerotic element predominates, it tends to destroy the secreting substance of the testis, whereas the gum- matous tissue tends rather to caseate and break down, leading to ulceration of the scrotum and in some cases to the formation of one form of fungus or hernia testis. Clinical Features.—The onset of the condition is slow and insidious, and is not attended with inflammatory symptoms. The swelling is often discovered accidentally, or the attention of the patient is drawn to it by a sensation of weight in the scrotum, or by a dragging pain in the line of the inguinal canal. As a rule only one testis is affected, but occasionally the two are involved consecutively. The body of the testis slowly becomes enlarged till it is twice or three times its natural size. Its normal shape is retained, or it may be somewhat flattened from side to side. The surface is usually smooth, but there are sometimes small hard nodules scattered over it. These are due to localised thickenings in the tunica albuginea and the connective tissue immediately under- lying it. The testis is hard and of a characteristically “ wooden ” consistence. There is neither pain nor tenderness, and testicular sensation is usually lost. For its bulk the swelling is unduly heavy. The epididymis is not invaded by the disease, but is usually matted to the back of the testis by infiltration of the intervening connective tissue, so that it is difficult to distinguish between them. The vas deferens is intact, and if traced into the testicular swelling indicates the position of the epididymis. The seminal vesicles and prostate are also intact. Hydrocele is very common in the early stages of the disease, but as the swelling of the testis increases, the fluid usually disappears, and the two layers of the tunica vaginalis become adherent. The space may thus be com- pletely obliterated, or it may be divided into compartments. The integument of the scrotum is slightly oedematous, and glides smoothly on the testis. It may be stretched and thinned, particu-