537 PROLAPSE. bowel is very liable to develop. The violent muscular efforts caused by whooping-cough, or bronchitis, may also determine the protrusion or the bowel in a weakly child. The condition has also been attributed to the pernicious habit of allowing the child to sit at stool long after the bowel has been emptied. In children the prolapse is, as a rule, of the partial or incomplete variety. In adults, the cause of the condition is often obscure, but it is possible that loss of fat and muscular weakness may predispose to the production of prolapse, which may be determined by such causes for straining as constipation, piles, rectal polypus, vesical calculus, or enlarged prostate. In adults the prolapse is usually of the complete variety. Clinical Features.—In the early stages, the condition consists merely in an exaggeration of the normal protrusion of the anal mucous membrane which accompanies the final expulsive effort of the bowel in defecation. This gradually increases until the prolapse forms a conical projection which varies in length from two to five or six inches. The mucous membrane of the pro- truded portion shows a series of circular or crescentic folds, and is at first of a pink or bright red colour, but, if it remain out for some time and be grasped by the sphincter, it assumes a bluish or purplish hue. At the apex of the cone is found the lumen of the bowel, while at its base the mucous membrane becomes continuous with the skin around the anal orifice. At first the protrusion can be readily returned inside the anus, but it tends to reappear if the patient coughs or strains, or, in some cases, even if he stands up. As the prolapse in- creases in size, its reduction becomes more and more difficult, owing to constriction of its base by the sphincter, and cedematous infiltration of the submucous tissue. Eventually it may remain down permanently, in which case it becomes paler in colour, and the mucous membrane becomes altered so as to resemble skin. Superficial ulcers are liable to form on this extruded surface, and in some cases sloughing of a part, or of the whole, of the pro- trusion takes place. In the more severe cases the patient may suffer from pain and difficulty in micturition, and from shooting pains in the loins and legs. The only condition for which a prolapse is liable to be mis- taken is an intussusception which has passed beyond the anal orifice. The distinction is readily made by noting that in in- tussusception the finger can be passed into a cul-de-sac between the anal margin and the protrusion, and the mucous membrane