THE URETHRA. 648 stitched to like, or after having excised an area of skin around the fistula, the gap is filled in by means of a flap taken from the scrotum. The lumen of the urethra is maintained by tying in a catheter. Retention of Urine.—It is instructive and clinically useful to resume the various conditions under which this is met with. It may be due to a want of expelling power, as in various forms of paralysis of the bladder, in peritonitis, conditions of shock, hysteria, the recumbent posture, after operations on the anus and rectum, and as a sequel to over-distension of the bladder. The second group of conditions is that in which there is some obstruction to the outflow : in the infant, for example, from malformation of the urethra and prepuce; in the child, from impacted calculus or a string tied round the penis; in the young adult, from gonorrhoeal prostatitis ; and in the adult, from stricture, enlargement of the prostate, or pedunculated tumour of the bladder. In the female, retroversion of the gravid uterus may cause complete retention. The treatment is directed to the cause. Catheter or Urinary Fever.—Attention was directed by the late Sir Andrew Clark to a form of fever or pyrexia which may develop suddenly after operations on the lower urinary organs, even the simple passage of a catheter. Within twelve or twenty-four hours there occurs a rigor or a succession of rigors, the temperature running up to 102°-105° F., and then rapidly coming down again; the patient is soon well, and remains so until the catheterisation is repeated. By many the condition is attributed to septic infection, a view which is supported by the marvellous rapidity of absorption possessed by the urethral mucous membrane, and the prevalence of sepsis in all pathological conditions of the lower urinary organs. By others it is regarded as a reflex nervous phenomenon, an exaggeration of the slight shivering which may attend the act of micturition in perfectly healthy men. It is certainly more liable to occur in neurotic individuals, and its frequency of occurrence appears to bear no proportion to the degree of infection as determined by ordinary methods of examination. Moreover, the occurrence of such rigors can often be prevented by taking certain precautions, which, while allaying nervous susceptibility, could have little influence in preventing septic absorption, such, for example, as keeping the patient warm, the administration of antipyrin or quinine an hour beforehand, and the delaying of the act of micturition for as long as possible after the interference. The injection of two or three drains of