6 THE SCALP. Boils and carbuncles are not common on the hairy part of the scalp, but they frequently occur on the brow and nape of the neck. Lupus rarely originates on the scalp, but may spread thither from the face. Syphilitic eruptions and ulcers occur on the scalp as else- where, but present no features of special interest. Gummata may develop in the soft parts of the scalp, but more commonly take origin in the periosteum or bone. Eczema capitis is of surgical importance only in so far as it often forms the starting-point of infection of lymphatic glands by pyogenic and other organisms. Cystic and Solid Tumours.—A great variety of tumours and other non-inflammatory conditions have been met with in the scalp, but the majority of them are of extreme rarity. Sebaceous cysts or wens are of frequent occurrence, and have already been described. Dermoid cysts of the scalp are usually situated over the anterior fontanelle or in the region of the occipital protuberance. They may be connected by a pedicle with the dura mater, and are liable to be mistaken for meningoceles. Serous cysts are occasionally found in the occipital region. They are believed to be meningoceles which have become isolated before birth. Adenomata originating in the sebaceous or sweat glands are met with in the scalp. They are sometimes multiple, are of a purplish colour, and the skin covering them is thin and glistening. They show a tendency to ulcerate and fungate, and give rise to a foetid discharge. They are treated by excision. Large, flat papillomata, or warts, are sometimes met with on the scalp. They may be single or multiple, are of slow growth, and may become the starting-point of epithelioma. The plexiforrn neuroma forms a loose soft tumour situated in the course of one or more branches of the fifth nerve, especially the supra-orbital branch. In its most aggravated forms the tumour hangs over the face or neck in large pendulous masses, and is described as a pachydermatocele. Sarcomata usually have their origin in the bones of the skull, and only implicate the scalp secondarily. Epithelioma of the scalp may originate in relation to a wart, an ulcerated wen or sebaceous adenoma, or the cicatrix of a burn. It may affect comparatively young persons, may spread over a wide area, or pass deeply and involve the bone. Free and early removal is indicated.