122 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. sebaceous and dermoid cysts, nsevi, plexiform neuromata and adenomata; the malignant forms include the squamous epi- thelioma, and rodent, paraffin, and melanotic cancers. Epithelioma occurs most frequently in men beyond the age of forty. The tumour usually begins near a junction of skin with mucous membrane, as, for example, at the margin of the lip, the edge of the nostril, or the angle of the eye. There is usually a history of prolonged or repeated irritation, or the tumour may develop in connection with a scar, a wart, a cutaneous horn, or an ulcerating sebaceous cyst. It may begin as a hard nodule, or as a papillary growth which soon breaks down on the surface leaving a deep ulcer with a characteristically indurated base. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are infected early, but metastases to other organs are not common. The treatment consists in excising the growth and the associated lymphatic glands as early and as freely as possible. THE ORBIT. Injuries.—Contusion of the eyelids and circum-orbital region —the ordinary “ black eye —is associated with extravasation of blood into the loose cellular tissue of these parts, and is followed within a few hours of the injury by marked ecchymosis and dis- coloration. The lids may swell to such an extent that the eye is completely closed. In some cases the impinging object lacerates some of the vessels of the conjunctiva, and produces a sub-conjunctival ecchymosis which may be situated under the palpebral conjunctiva of the lower lid, or close to the corneal margin on the front of the globe. The characteristic play of colours which attends the disappearance of effused blood is observed within a week or ten days of the injury. This condition is to be distinguished from the effusions which sometimes follow such injuries as fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, fracture of the orbital ridges, or bruises of the frontal region of the scalp, chiefly by the facts that in black eye the discoloration comes on within a very short time of the injury, that the swelling appears simultaneously in both lids, and that the sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, when present, is coeval with the ecchymosis of the lids. In fractures of the orbital plate and bruises of the forehead, on the other hand, the ecchymosis does not appear in the eyelids for several days, and that under the conjunctiva is usually disposed on the globe as a triangular patch towards the outer canthus of the eye.