12 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. Other special Centres.—The cortical centres which are related to the different forms of aphasia are of importance. Thus Broca’s convolution is the seat of the motor speech centre, and lesions of it result in “ motor aphasia.” The auditory speech centre, through which spoken words are appreciated, occupies the posterior part of the first, and probably also of the second, temporo-sphenoidal convolutions. Lesions of this centre produce “word deafness,” that is, the patient is unable to understand spoken words, although he may be able to read, write, and speak intel- ligently. A special centre for the appreciation of written words—the visual speech centre—is located in the angular gyrus, and lesions in this region cause “ word blindness,” a condition in which the patient cannot read words although he may be able to speak, to understand spoken language, and to write. A special centre for writing is supposed to lie in the posterior part of the middle frontal convolution, and “agraphia,” or inability to write, results from its destruction. All the above-mentioned special centres are situated in the left cerebral hemisphere in right-handed people. The half-vision centres, or cortical centres for vision, lie in the occipital lobes, in the neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure. Each half-vision centre, for there is one in each occipital lobe, receives the fibres from the same side of both retinae. Destruction of one half-vision centre produces the condition known as homonymous hemianopia, in which there is an inability to see objects which are situated on the side opposite to the lesion. Lesions of the prefrontal lobes may be associated with disturbance of the higher psychical functions. Disturbances of equilibration and co-ordination occur especially in connection with lesions of the cerebellum and its peduncles. Ataxia, vertigo, and nystagmus are frequently due to cerebellar lesions. Relation of Cerebral Centres to the Surface.—Numerous attempts have been made to formulate rules for locating the different parts of the brain in relation to the surface of the head. The method devised by s Fig. 2.—Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation.