SARCOMA. 299 When the tumour is deeply placed in the lower segment of the breast, the scar may be hidden by making the incision in the thoracico-mammary fold, and, after throwing up the breast, reaching the tumour from the posterior surface of the corpus mammae (Gaillard Thomas). The cystic forms call for removal of the breast. Duct Papilloma.—Pedunculated papillomata sometimes grow from the walls of the larger ducts and lacteal sinuses. They may be single or multiple, and are usually met with in multipara who have nursed their children for an unduly long period. They form a small, firm, elastic, lobulated tumour in the region of the areola. The escape of a clear or blood-stained fluid from the nipple serves to distinguish these tumours from fibro-adenomata. This discharge may be noticed for some months before any tumour is palpable. When the tumour is single and limited in size, the treatment consists in removing it along with the im- mediately adjacent breast tissue. When multiple, the whole breast should be removed. Malignant Tumours.—Sarcoma of the breast is compara- tively rare. It is met with at all ages, but generally before the age of forty. The tumour is usually of the spindle or round- celled variety, and is made up entirely of embryonic mesoblastic tissue. Any glandular elements which may be present are not of new formation, but merely rejiresent portions of the original breast tissue which has been surrounded by the new growth. Cysts frequently develop in the substance of these tumours as a result of degeneration. In the early stages a sarcoma is usually more or less com- pletely surrounded by condensed fibrous tissue which forms an apparent capsule to the growth. The tumour cannot, however, be shelled out of this capsule, which is directly continuous on the one hand with the stroma of the breast, and on the other with that of the new growth. Clinical Features.—The tumour appears as a rounded swelling in the substance of the breast. There is no retraction of the nipple, and at first the skin is not implicated nor the axillary glands enlarged. The tumour, which is comparatively soft, cannot be moved apart from the corpus mammae. For some months the swelling may remain almost stationary and then begin to grow, rapidly infiltrating the whole organ. The skin over the breast becomes stretched, assumes a dusky red hue, and has large veins coursing through it. The axillary glands become enlarged and soft. There is often some general rise of temperature. Dissemination may take place through