581 SURGICAL ASPECTS OF NEPHRITIS. Each tumour is reniform in shape, moves with respiration, and can be moved between the two hands. These characters should allow of its being differentiated from a malignant tumour, hydro- nephrosis, or an hydatid cyst. If only one kidney can be felt to be enlarged the diagnosis is more difficult, unless the liver is also affected, in which case the liver is enlarged, and the cysts may be felt on its anterior surface. The urine is like that met with in the contracted kidney; it is increased in amount, pale in colour, and of low specific gravity ; there is a trace of albumin, occasionally tube casts, and de- colorised hsemocytes; sometimes there is visible hsematuria. The presence of concentrically laminated colloid bodies like those met with in the prostate is believed to be pathognomonic. The surgical importance of this condition lies in its diagnosis, as it is not amenable to any form of treatment. If not recognised until the kidney is exposed, the proposed operation should be abandoned. Hydatid cyst of the kidney gives rise to no urinary phenomena unless it ruptures into the pelvis, in which case daughter cysts and booklets may be found in the urine. Surgical Aspects of Nephritis.—It has now been established that certain forms of chronic nephritis may be attended with pain and haunaturia. From the fact that the pain may be confined to one side and may amount to definite colic, and that the lnemorrhage at the time of examination may be confined to the secretion escaping from one ureter, it will be readily understood how it has come about that such cases of nephritis have been subjected to operation on the assumption that the lesion was renal calculus, tumour, or tuberculosis. When no such lesion has been found at the operation or afterwards, the condition has been described as “essential hctmaturia,” “renal haemophilia” and the like. It is now maintained that these cases are really of the nature of nephritis, and that the pain and lnemorrhage are the result of renal congestion attending inflammation of the organ. It has been shown by Kimunell that although the pain and lnemorrhage may be unilateral, the nephritis invariably affects both kidneys. KummeH’s conclusions are based on observations of the freezing-point of the blood, and on the urine obtained separately from each kidney by the ureteral catheter. If it can be demonstrated of any renal affection that only one kidney is affected, it may be safely assumed that the lesion is not a nephritis in the ordinary acceptation of the term. In cases of unilateral pain and hsematuria due to stone the freezing-point of the blood remains unaltered.