THE KIDNEY AND URETER 54G organ for localised disease or injury. Nephrectomy implies the removal of the entire organ. Nephro-lithotomy refers to the in- cision of the kidney for the removal of stone. Ureterectomy refers to the removal of part or the whole length of the ureter. Operations on the pelvis and ureter are described in relation to hydronephrosis. Congenital Anomalies of the Kidney.—Persistence of the foetal lobulation of the kidney is occasionally met with, but is of little or no importance. The condition of horse-shoe kidney consists in the two kidneys being fused at their lower ends. The bridge of tissue joining them usually lies in front of the third lumbar vertebra, and is crossed by the ureters. One half of it may become the seat of disease, for example hydronephrosis, while the other half is healthy. Under normal conditions it is rarely possible to palpate a horse-shoe kidney. Congenital absence or arrested development of one kidney is a possibility which should always be borne in mind when con- sidering the question of nephrectomy. Disease of a solitary kidney is attended with a lower freezing-point of the blood, but the most conclusive evidence of the presence of two functionally active kidneys is the demonstration with the cystoscope of two normally placed functionating ureteral openings. The absence of one kidney is sometimes associated with defective development or imperfect descent of the testicle on the same side. On the side on which the kidney is congenitally absent there are no renal vessels, and the ureter also is absent. In cases of arrested development the affected organ is rarely larger than a bean or a walnut, the renal vessels are present, and the ureter, although narrow, may be patent and admit a probe or catheter, especially at its lower end. Where one kidney is rudimentary or absent the other is usually considerably enlarged. Congenital Displacement or Dystopia. — The kidney may lie nearer the middle line than normal, or it may be dis- placed downwards so that it lies on a level with the sacral promontory, or even in the cavity of the pelvis. Anatomically this congenital displacement is differentiated from the acquired variety—the wandering kidney—by the low origin of the renal vessels which may spring from the common or internal iliac arteries. Clinically the condition may pass unobserved, unless the displaced kidney becomes the seat of disease, for example hydronephrosis or calculous pyonephrosis. Under these circum- stances it may be difficult to diagnose the condition from tumours of the bowel, of the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, or of the retro-peritoneal tissue.