55 CEPHALOCELES. being so small as almost to escape detection, while others are larger than a child’s head. Several varieties are recognised. They are known as (1) meningocele, which consists of a protrusion of a cul-de-sac of the membranes containing cerebro-spinal fluid ; (2) encephalocele, in which a portion of the brain is protruded in addition to the membranes; and (3) hy dr encephalocele, in which the protruded brain includes a portion of one of the ventricles in its interior. Clinical Features.—The meningocele is commonest in the occipital region, where it escapes through a cleft in the bone which extends from the foramen magnum to the occipital pro- tuberance. It forms a tense, smooth, translucent, globular swelling, which may be sessile or pedunculated, and is usually covered by thin, smooth skin in which the vessels are dilated and naevoid. The tumour does not pulsate, but increases in size and tension when the child cries or coughs. It may be diminished in size or even entirely reduced by pressure, and so permit of the opening in the bone being felt. This manipulation, however, may be followed by slowing of the pulse, vomiting, loss of consciousness, or convulsions. Small meningoceles may remain stationary for a long time, or may even undergo spontaneous cure. Those of larger size usually progress till they eventually burst, and death results from septic meningitis, or from the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Septic infection may also occur from excoriation of the overlying skin or eczema. Encephaloceles are much commoner than meningoceles, and usually occur in the frontal region, where they form broad-based, elastic, and pulsatile tumours, which vary greatly in size. The hydrencephalocele is usually met with in the occipital region, and is generally so large and associated with such great cerebral deformity, as to be inconsistent with life. It does not as a rule pulsate. Cephaloceles have to be diagnosed from dermoid cysts, nsevi, cephal-hydrocele, and cephal-liaunatoma. Their recognition is seldom attended with difficulty. If the margins of the gap in the skull can be distinctly felt, the diagnosis is greatly simplified. Treatment.—It is only small cephaloceles that are amenable to surgical treatment. Those which are large and contain brain substance are best left alone. They should, however, be pro- tected from irritation and septic infection by soft antiseptic dressings. When surgical interference is deemed advisable, it is best to expose the protrusion by reflecting a Hap of the scalp, and, after