619 ENLARGEMENT. bladder as a spherical or lobulated tumour immediately behind the urethral opening, and interfere mechanically with the escape of urine (Eig. 147). If pedunculated, the middle lobe may act as a ball valve. When from any cause the prostate becomes congested the enlargement may rapidly increase, the mucous membrane on its urethral and vesical aspects becoming swollen so that the escape of urine is rendered more difficult, or even impossible; or haimorrhage may take place, the blood escaping by the urethra, or regurgitating into the bladder and mixing with the urine. From the increased difficulty in voiding the urine, the muscular coat of the bladder undergoes hypertrophy, and the interior of the organ presents a fasciculated appearance (Fig. 140). The mucous membrane may then be protruded between the reticulated columns of muscle fibres, constituting sacculi or cysts, in which phosphatic concretions may be deposited and lead to the formation of encysted stone. When the bladder undergoes dilatation as the result of the ac- cumulation of residual urine, its wall becomes pouched in front of and behind the intra-vesical projection of the prostate, while the urethral opening rises more and more to- wards the pubes. The retro-prostatic pouch is usually deeper and more capacious than the pouch in front of the prostate, and is especially liable to become the seat of stone formation. When septic infection is superadded, the urine undergoes ammoniacal decomposition and deposits phosphates; the mucous membrane of the bladder presents the changes which attend cystitis. The muscular fibres degenerate and become replaced by fibrous tissue, and as a result of the inflammation spreading through to the cellular tissue around the bladder—pericystitis—the organ may become fixed in its dilated and pouched condition, so that it is no longer a contractile organ under the influence of the will, but an inert sac subject only to the laws of fluid pressure. The kidneys are frequently the seat of chronic interstitial Fig. 147.—Enlargement of Prostate, showing intra - vesical projection of the so-called Middle Lobe. (From a photograph lent by Mr. C. W. Cathcart.) (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)