356 HERNIA. tion of diverticula. In course of time the sac becomes fixed by adhesions to the surrounding tissues, so that it cannot be returned within the abdomen. In congenital hernia the sac is represented by a tubular process of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis—which ought to have been obliterated before birth. The neck of the sac varies in length and calibre in different hernise. If it become obliterated by adhesion of its walls or by a plug of omentum, it is cut off from the peritoneal cavity, and may become filled with fluid and constitute a hydrocele of the hernial sac. The contents of a hernia may be represented by any of the structures within the abdomen. The small intestine and great omentum are those most commonly present. When intestine alone is protruded the hernia is termed an enterocele; when omentum only, an epiplocele. The term Richter’s hernia is applied when only a part of the cir- cumference of the intestine is pro- truded (Fig. 67). A Littre’s hernia is one containing a Meckel’s diverti- culum. Fluid derived from the peri- toneal cavity may be present in the sac, particularly in cases of tuberculous and other forms of ascites. The friction and pressure of the structures within the hernial sac may result in their becoming adherent tooneanother or to the inner surface of the sac. The omentum is especially liable to become fixed by adhesions, while the intestine, in virtue of its greater range of movement, more often remains free. The omentum may undergo a con- siderable increase in bulk from deposit of fat in its substance, and, when pressed upon by a truss, may become tough and Fig. 67.—Richter’s Hernia— from a strangulated femoral hernia. fibrous. The coverings of a hernia are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall traversed by the hernia, variously altered by stretching and pressure. Etiology of Hernia.—The factors favouring the development of hernia may be considered as predisposing and exciting. The chief predisposing factor is an error or defect in development. Certain herniae, particularly in the inguinal and umbilical regions, are congenital, and are due to imperfect closure of the openings in the abdominal wall as a result of incomplete or delayed developmental processes. The weakness of the abdominal wall at the umbilicus, or at