41 FRACTURES OF THE BASE. when long continued and profuse that the bleeding suggests a fracture. Similarly the effusions of blood in the region of the orbit may be due to a simple contusion of the soft parts (“black eye or to gravitation of blood from the forehead or temple. Subconjunctival ecchymosis also may occur independently of a fracture implicating the anterior fossa, for example in association with an ordinary black eye, or with fracture of the orbital ridge or of the malar bone. Finally, paralysis of the cranial nerves may result from pressure of blood-clot, or from the nerves being torn without the skull being fractured. Fracture of the middle fossa is usually the result of severe violence applied to the vault, as, for example, when a man falls over a window or is thrown from a horse and lands on his head. Less frequently it is produced by the patient falling from a height and landing on the feet or buttocks. Clinical Features.—The most conclusive sign of fracture of the middle fossa is the escape of dark-coloured blood in a steady stream from the ear, followed by oozing of cerebro-spinal fluid. The bleeding from the ear may go on for days, the blood gradually becoming lighter in colour from admixture with cerebro-spinal fluid. Finally the blood ceases, but the clear fluid continues to drain away—sometimes for weeks. In our experience, the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid is much less common than is generally supposed. In most cases the tympanic membrane is ruptured. When it is intact, the blood and cerebro-spinal fluid may pass down the Eustachian tube into the pharynx. The escape of brain matter from the ear is exceedingly rare. Emphysema of the scalp may result if the fracture passes through the mastoid cells. The facial and auditory nerves and the second and third divisions of the trigeminal are frequently implicated. Diagnosis.—Care must be taken not to mistake blood which has passed into the ear from a scalp wound, or which has its origin in a fracture of the wall of the external auditory meatus, or a laceration of the tympanic membrane, for blood escaping from a fracture of the base. Under such conditions the blood is usually bright red, is not accompanied by cerebro-spinal fluid, and the flow soon stops. It is on record1 that blood and cerebro-spinal fluid may escape along the sheath of the auditory nerve without the bone being broken. Fracture of the posterior fossa is produced by the same forms of violence as cause fracture of the middle fossa. Clinical Features. — Sometimes a comparatively limited 1 Miles, Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1895.