615 ACUTE PROSTATITIS. Examination of the Prostate by the Rectum.—The bladder and rectum having been emptied, the patient bends over the back of a chair, resting his hands on the seat, so that the body forms a right angle with the lower extremities. If the patient is unable to get out of bed, the examination is made in the dorsal position. In the healthy adult the symmetrical contour of the lateral lobes and the interlobular sulcus or shallow median groove between them can be recognised. These details are felt more distinctly if there is a rigid instrument in the urethra. The firm consistence of the prostate contrasts with the soft smooth feeling of the bladder wall above and beyond it. The seminal vesicles which lie on each side of the organ are not felt unless they are distended with fluid or indurated by inflammation or tuberculous disease. Injuries of the prostate occur chiefly as the result of the unskilful passage of urethral instruments, or of operations on the bladder ; rarely from fracture of the pelvis or from sharp foreign bodies introduced into the rectum. They are attended with haemorrhage, and it may be with extravasation of urine, and when there is septic infection this may attack the venous plexus around the organ and may spread to the pelvic cellular tissue or peritoneum. When there is extravasation of urine it may be necessary to open and drain the bladder by the perineum or above the pubes. Pyogenic Affections — Acute Prostatitis and Prostatic Abscess.—A gonorrhoeal or other infection may spread from the urethra along the prostatic ducts to the glands and subsequently to the stroma of the organ, resulting in inflammation of varying degrees of severity, which may or may not terminate in suppura- tion. When pus forms it may do so at different points corre- sponding to the individual gland follicles, and these foci may fuse together into a single abscess. The infection may spread along the ejaculatory ducts to the seminal vesicles, or along the lym- phatics to the peri-prostatic cellular tissue, especially that be- tween the prostate and rectum. The condition is most often met with towards the end of the third week of a gonorrhoeal urethritis, and its occurrence is favoured by congestion, induced, for example, by exposure to cold, the riding of a horse or bicycle, or indulgence in alcohol. In mild cases there is merely a feeling of weight in the perineum with pain on micturition and defecation, and on rectal examina- tion the prostate is felt to be swollen, hot, and tender. In more severe cases there is extreme pain, the perineum is so tender that the patient is unable to sit, and micturition becomes urgent, frequent, and very painful. The condition is to be differentiated from gonorrhoeal cystitis, in which there is no enlargement of the prostate, but marked vesical tenesmus.