142 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. uneasiness, which is relieved by the patient biting against it. Later there is severe lancinating or throbbing pain. The ] affected tooth usually projects beyond its neighbours, and is excessively tender when the opposing tooth comes in contact with it in mastication. The gum becomes red and swollen, and the cheek is cedematous. Alveolar Abscess.—Periodontitis is usually followed by the formation of an alveolar abscess. The pus which forms at the root of the tooth in most cases works its way through the bone and into the gum, constituting a “gum-boil.” The pus may then burst through the gum, or may spread underneath the external periosteum of the jaw and lead to necrosis of that bone. In some cases the cheek becomes adherent to the gum and to the jaw before the abscess bursts, and the pus escapes through the skin, leaving a sinus which leads down to the defaulting tooth, and which is very slow to heal. The opening of the sinus is most commonly situated at the under margin of the lower jaw. An alveolar abscess deeply seated in the upper jaw may open into the antrum of Highmore and cause suppuration in that cavity. The abscess should always be opened from the mouth to avoid a scar on the face. In all cases the extraction of the carious tooth is necessary before the abscess will cease discharging and the sinus heal. Among the other effects of dental caries may be mentioned localised necrosis of the alveolar margin, septic cellulitis of the neck, and enlargement of the cervical lymphatic glands. Cystic growths are frequently found attached to the roots of decayed teeth. They are lined by epithelium, and are probably derived from a belated portion of the enamel organ which has been stimulated to active growth by septic processes in the pulp cavity. They are seldom larger than a pea, and they contain a pultaceous mass like inspissated pus. They give rise to no symptoms, and are only recognised after extraction of the root. Oclontomata have already been described (vol. i. p. 184). Affections of the Gums.—Inflammation of the gums— gingivitis—is usually only a part of a general stomatitis. The gums are swollen and spongy, and may show superficial ulcera- tion, associated with bleeding and extreme foetor of the breath. The teeth become loose, project from the alveoli, and sometimes fall out. These symptoms are prominent in cases of scurvy, chronic mercurial poisoning, and sometimes in syphilis. In chronic lead-poisoning a characteristic narrow blue line is seen on the gums near the dental margin. The treatment consists in removing the cause, improving the hygienic and dietetic