THE SPINE AND COED. 84 fracture being' subjected to strain and pressure too early, or to a progressive softening of the injured vertebra and of the bodies of those adjacent to it. This leads to an alteration in the shape of the affected bones. The usual history is that some consider- able time after the patient has resumed work subsequent to the accident he suffers from pain in the back, and radiating pains round the body and down the legs. He becomes more and more unfit for work, and a marked projection appears in the back and may extend over several verte- brae (Fig. 13). While the condition is progressive, the prominent vertebrae are painful and tender. In course of time the softening process is arrested, and the affected bones become fused together. The area of the spine involved becomes rigid and permanent deformity results. Dislocations and Fracture-Disloca- tions.—It is seldom possible at the bed- side to distinguish between a complete dislocation of the spine and a fracture- dislocation. Fracture-dislocation is by far the more common lesion of the two, and is the injury popularly known as a “ broken back.” It may occur in any part of the column, but is most fre- quently met with in the dorso-lumbar region. It usually results from forcible flexion of the spine, as, for example, when a miner at work in the stooping posture is struck on the shoulders by a heavy Fig. 13.—Traumatic Spon- faJ| 0f coal. The spine is acutely bent, dylitis affecting Lower ancj preaps the angle of flexion and not following compression at the point struck. Ihe lesion consists fracture. in a complete bilateral dislocation of the articular processes, together with a fracture through one or more of the bodies. This fracture is usually oblique, running downwards and forwards. The upper fragment of the body with the segment of the spine above it is displaced downwards and forwards, and the cord is crushed between the posterior edge of the body of the lower vertebra and the arch of the vertebra above it (Fig. 14). In almost every case the cord is damaged beyond possibility of repair.