INJURIES OF THE TESTIS. 659 form of injury is a contusion, the result, for example, of a crush, a kick, or a blow. The injury is accompanied by intense sickening pain radiating down the thigh and along the cord towards the loin, and it may be so severe as to cause syncope. There is always a considerable degree of shock, and in some cases this has proved fatal. The scrotum is discoloured, and the body of the testis is swollen and tender. In a considerable proportion of cases a severe contusion of the testis is followed by atrophy of the gland, which in the course of six or eight weeks may have shrivelled to the size of a haricot bean. The epididymis does not share in the atrophy. Severe neuralgia of the testis may follow a contusion, and it is not uncommon for tuberculosis of the gland to date from an injury of this kind. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotum elevated, and have warm antiseptic compresses or lead and opium fomentations applied to the parts. Punctured wounds of the testis are occasionally produced during the tapping of a hydrocele. There is acute pain at the moment, and the fluid withdrawn may be blood-stained. So long as septic infection does not take place the accident is of no importance. Incised and lacerated wounds, being very liable to become infected, frequently lead to suppuration and destruc- tion of the testis. In such cases it is best to excise the gland, because, even if the inflammation subsides, it is very liable to undergo atrophy. Dislocation of the Testis.—The testis may be squeezed out of the scrotum by such violence as the passage of a wheel over the part, or it may be dragged out by forcible contractions of the cremaster muscle during violent muscular efforts. The gland may pass back into the inguinal canal, or on to the abdominal wall or front of the pubes. It may remain per- manently in its new position, especially if adhesions form in connection with the injury, or it may eventually pass back into the scrotum. The treatment of acquired ectopia is carried out on the same lines as in the developmental form. Injuries of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord may be contused by blows or sudden strains, as for example in falling with the legs widely apart. Violent efforts in coughing have been known to cause rupture of one of the spermatic veins in patients suffering from varicocele. These injuries are followed by effusion of blood into the connective tissue of the cord, and the extravasated Wood may either collect in a limited space, or be widely diffused throughout its substance. A firm,