CANCER OF BILE-DUCTS. 477 the disease is sufficiently marked to give rise to symptoms. Local extension to the glands of the lesser omentum and to the adjacent substance of the liver takes place, and in the later stages may spread to the pylorus, duodenum, colon, and peritoneum, all of which may become adherent to the gall- bladder. It is most common in women. The diagnosis is always difficult in the early stages, and is often impossible before opening the abdomen. Usually there is a history of biliary colic extending over a lengthened period, followed by progressive deterioration of health, with a sense of discomfort, scarcely amounting to pain, in the region of the gall-bladder. When pain is prominent, it is usually due to an associated empyema of the gall-bladder. As the disease pro- gresses, the pain becomes more marked and more diffuse. With the growth of the local tumour a hard, rounded mass is felt below the costal margin, which differs from a distended gall- bladder in being nodular on the surface, more fixed, and harder. Jaundice and ascites occur in the later stages. Treatment.—Where the disease is limited to the gall-bladder, cholecystectomy and removal of the adjacent portion of liver and any associated glands afford a fair prospect of cure. Mayo Robson reports a number of successful cases. Where empyema is present, cholecystotomy and drainage give relief. Primary Cancer of the Hepatic and Common Bile-Ducts.— Malignant disease is most frequently situated at the junction of the hepatic ducts or at the ampulla of Vater. Practically in all cases cancer of the ducts is preceded by gall-stones, and as the symptoms of both diseases are usually present, the diagnosis is difficult. There is progressive jaundice with increase in the size of the liver, and, unless previously contracted and thickened, the gall-bladder becomes distended. In order to relieve the symptoms cholecystotomy may be performed and a permanent biliary fistula established, or chole- cyst-enterostomy may be done.