412 THE INTESTINES. bowel. The closure of such a wound, or of a perforation or rupture of the bowel, is known as enterorraphy. Enterostomy consists in making a communication between the bowel and the surface of the abdomen. When the operation is performed to enable nourishment to be introduced directly into the intestine, for example, in certain cases of gastric cancer, the opening is made as high as possible in the jejunum—-jejun- ostomy—and is carried out on similar lines to Witzel’s gastro- stomy. When the object is to establish a faecal fistula, for example, in cases of obstruction of the small intestine, the opening is made as low down as possible in the ileum—ileostomy. The loop of bowel selected is brought to the surface and stitched to the parietal peritoneum and transversalis fascia by a con- tinuous serous suture. If the condition of the patient permit, the opening of the bowel should be delayed for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, to diminish the risk of infection of the peri- toneal cavity, and to prevent the infective contents of the bowel coming in contact with the wound in the abdominal parietes. Before opening the bowel the skin' should be smeared with vaseline to protect it from the irritant effects of the evacuations. The term colotomy, or more correctly colostomy, is applied to an operation in which the colon is opened with a view to establishing a permanent outlet for the fajces, this being known as an artificial anus. The operation is usually performed for cancer of the rectum. A loop of colon—preferably the pelvic colon—is pulled out, its mesentery transfixed with a strand of gauze or a glass rod, the bowel fixed by a few sutures passed through its serous coat, or its mesentery, and the parietal peritoneum. If possible, the opening of the bowel should be postponed for a day or two to enable adhesions to form, and so to shut off the peritoneal cavity. Two sero-muscular sutures, the ends of which are left long, should be inserted on the con- vexity of the loop to serve as guides in opening the bowel. The opening may be made with the knife, scissors or thermo-cautery. Enterectomy consists in excising a segment of the bowel, for example, for tumour, gangrene or injury. The gut above and below the segment to be resected is clamped, and the affected portion cut across with scissors. This operation when performed on the large intestine is known as colectomy. The means taken to re-establish the continuity of the tube— entero-anastomosis—vary with the condition for which the re- section is performed, and the length and relations of the portion of bowel implicated. End-to-end suture (Fig. 85) is the method of choice. The divided ends are brought into apposition, and