APPENDICITIS. 346 resolution take place, the general symptoms still further subside, the evening rise of temperature is less, flatus is passed or the bowels may move, and from the fifth to the seventh day onwards the swelling diminishes from the periphery towards the centre. The abdominal wall recovers its pliability, and the phlegmon comes to be represented by a deeply placed, rounded lump or mass fixed in the iliac fossa. The swelling usually disappears altogether in from fifteen to twenty days, but traces of it may remain as long as six or eight weeks. Peri-appendicular Peritonitis followed by the Formation of an Abscess.—It is seldom possible to say whether or not suppuration is going to take place. If an abscess is forming, the symptoms of localised peritonitis persist, the temperature remains elevated, or if it has fallen, rises again, often reaching a higher point than before. The pulse is quickened, and sweating is often a marked feature. Examination of the blood usually reveals a marked leucocytosis. At the same time the local features change. The swelling increases in area, and may form a salient bulging in the right iliac fossa; it may be observed to alter in consistence, becoming softer and more doughy, and it becomes more tender. (Edema of the abdominal wall, dilatation of the surface veins, and fluctuation are later developments, and occur as the pus increases in amount and approaches the surface. The situation of the abscess and the associated physical signs vary with the anatomical position of the appendix. The fore- going description refers to the condition when the appendix is in its usual position at the inner side of caicum and overlapped by coils of small intestine. In the retro-caecal situation of the appendix the pus accumulates behind or to the outer side of the caecum, and is more or less extra-peritoneal ; hence the symptoms of peritonitis are less marked or may be absent, the vomiting is less, and the constipation not so pronounced; the abdominal wall is less rigid, and on palpation no definite swelling is to be felt, but merely an ill-defined, deeply-situated resistance. The right leg is frequently flexed, there may be marked tenderness on pressing in the loin, where at a later stage there may be evidence of pus approaching the surface. In the pelvic form of appendicitis most information is gained by a rectal examination; a soft, tender swelling is felt in the pouch of Douglas, especially towards the right side. The patient complains of trouble with the bladder in the form of frequency of micturition, difficulty in starting the act, and pain