373 INTERSTITIAL HERNIA. may be out of reach of surgical assistance; and in cases in which, from the nature of the patient’s occupations and habits, the use of a truss is liable to be interfered with. It may be added that, in many cases, the question of operative interference remains a matter of the personal choice of the patient. Hern he which are of such enormous size that the abdomen is unlikely to be able to accommodate the protruded viscera; cases in which the abdominal walls are flaccid and bulging, and in which the conditions which have led to the acquisition of the hernia are likely to continue, for example, persistent cough from lung disease, or straining on micturition from enlargement of the prostate, are unsuited for operation. The “ radical cure ” aims at obliteration of the neck of the sac and closure of the canal through which the hernia protruded. The neck of the sac may be simply cut across and ligatured, it may be displaced from its usual situation at the internal ring, or it may be twisted on itself so as to obliterate more thoroughly its lumen. The inguinal canal is to be closed so as to strengthen the abdominal wall at this point, and at the same time avoid any constriction of the cord. Interstitial Hernia.—This form of hernia receives its name from the fact that the sac of the hernia forms in the interstices of the abdominal parietes. The hernial sac has two or more loculi or compartments which open into the abdomen by a common mouth. The outer or lower compartment occupies the upper part of the inguinal canal, and rarely descends into the scrotum. The upper and inner loculus extends between the layers of the abdominal wall in one of three situations:— (1) Between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis, constituting what is known as a pro-peritoneal or intra-parietal hernia • (2) between the internal and external oblique muscles, the inter-parietal variety—the most common of the three; and (3), between the external oblique muscle and the skin—the extra-parietal variety. The pro-peritoneal loculus of the sac may pass upwards and outwards towards the anterior superior spine; or directly backwards so that it occupies the inner part of the iliac fossa; or it may pass downwards and inwards into the true pelvis, and lie by the side of the bladder. This form of hernia, although rare, is of clinical importance, because from the absence of an external swelling the diagnosis is rarely made until strangulation occurs and the hernia is exposed by operation. In the second and third varieties the interstitial sac is capable of being recognised, as it is visibly distended with the usual hernial contents. Strangulation is infrequent.