GALL-STONE ILEUS. 433 gall-stone from the gall-bladder into the intestine—pain and tenderness below the right costal margin, along with evidences of local peritonitis. Both sets of symptoms are occasionally absent. The onset of obstruction is usually abrupt. Pain, although sometimes a prominent feature, may be altogether absent. Vomiting occurs early and is very persistent; the ejected fluid is abundant and bilious; after the second day it may become stercoraceous. There is less shock than in acute strangulation of the bowel; the patient complains of cold and thirst, and becomes exhausted by the incessant vomiting. There is little distension or tenderness of the abdomen. If the abdominal wall is thin and is relaxed by an anaesthetic, and if there is no distension, the gall-stone may be felt through the,parietes, and in a few cases it has been observed to change its position. It has also been felt by the rectum in the pouch of Douglas. Less commonly gall-stone ileus assumes a chronic or inter- mittent character. In its passage along the intestine the stone may become arrested at different points as a result of spasm of the bowel, and repeatedly cause symptoms of obstruction, with intervals of days or weeks between the attacks. Such cases may terminate in complete obstruction, or the stone may finally be passed by the rectum and the patient make a complete recovery. The diagnosis, in the absence of a history of previous gall- stone affections, is usually a matter of conjecture. It is one of the conditions most likely to be present in cases of sudden obstruction in elderly women. Treatment.—The possibility of the stone being passed by the natural channel may justify a preliminary trial of belladonna and opium, which not only relieves pain, but, by arresting the spasm of the bowel, may favour the passage of the stone; and at the same time the stomach may be washed out, and large quantities of saline fluid introduced into the colon. Inasmuch, however, as the diagnosis is rarely certain, it is safer to operate without delay. The abdomen is opened in the middle line by an incision large enough to admit two fingers. The loop of bowel containing the stone is usually found without difficulty if the condition is suspected and sought for. The loop is brought outside the wound and surrounded with gauze; the bowel is opened by a longitudinal incision, the stone expressed, and the incision is then closed by two tiers of continuous suture inserted at right angles to the long axis of the bowel to avoid narrowing the lumen. In advanced cases with great distension of the VOL. II—28