700 ANAESTHETICS. causes paralysis of the cardiac centre in the medulla, and of the heart itself. On the other hand cardiac failure may arise from purely extrinsic causes, the most important of which are—(1) fright, for example, at the very commencement of the administration; (2) sitting the patient up during the operation, or before he is quite free from the influence of chloroform ; (3) reflex effect of nausea, or threatened vomiting; (4) shock from the operation, especially where the patient is already in an enfeebled condition. The most prominent symptoms are pallor, often appearing very suddenly, rapid failure of the pulse and respiration, and wide dilatation of the pupils. The pulse and respiration may fail simultaneously or within a few seconds of one another. In the syncope which occurs during the early stages of anaesthesia, the onset is extremely rapid and recovery is rare. That which occurs later, after the operation is in progress, comes on more gradually, and treatment is more frequently successful. Respiratory difficulty may be due to the toxic effect of the anaesthetic, that is to overdose, and is then often associated with cardiac failure. It may also be due to obstruction of the respiratory passages, for example, from—(1) spasm of the muscles at the base of the tongue, or falling back of the tongue; (2) spasm of the muscles of the jaw and neck; (3) spasm of the ary- epiglottic folds of the larynx ; (4) general spasm of the respira- tory muscles, including the intercostals ; (5) the position of the patient, for example, the completely prone position; (6) foreign bodies entering the air-passages, such as vomited matter, blood-clot, accumulated mucus, or artificial dentures. The characteristic symptoms are : increasingly stertorous breathing, duskiness of the lips, ears, and face, increasing to cyanosis. The chest continues to heave without air entering or leaving it, and unless the cause of obstruction be removed the patient becomes completely asphyxiated ; the heart usually con- tinues beating after the respiration has ceased. Treatment.—From the point of view of treatment, patients in the conditions described above may be divided clinically into those who become pale, and those who become cyanosed. In dealing with patients who have become pale from a circulatory failure or a combination of this with respiratory failure, the head should be lowered, and, in the case of children, the body may be completely inverted; the tongue is drawn out with forceps and held by an assistant, while artificial respiration is promptly carried out. The movements must not be made more rapidly than in