177 PAROTITIS. definite course which lasts for from one to two weeks, and almost invariably ends in resolution. The parotid gland is swollen and tender, and there is pain on attempting to open the mouth. Owing to the difficulty in swallowing there is dribbling of saliva. The surgical interest of this disease lies in the fact that it is frequently complicated by pain and swelling of the testis and oedema of the scrotum, and occasionally by a urethral discharge. Atrophy of the testis has been observed after such an attack. In females there is sometimes pain in the region of the ovary, tenderness and swelling of the breasts, and a discharge from the vagina. The parotid on one or on both sides may suddenly become swollen and tender in patients who are taking large doses of mercury, in gouty subjects, or in patients suffering from inflammatory conditions of the genito-urinary organs, such as orchitis, ovaritis, urethritis, or cystitis. The condition is usually transient and leads to no complications. The treatment of these non-suppurative forms of parotitis is entirely symptomatic. Suppurative parotitis, may occur in the course of any disease in which there is a general infection of the blood with pyogenic bacteria. It has been met with in diphtheria, typhoid fever, scarlet fever, measles, and other eruptive fevers, and it is com- paratively common after certain abdominal operations, such as those for suppurative appendicitis, perforated gastric ulcer, ovarian cyst, and pyosalpinx. In exceptional cases it is due to the direct spread of local conditions, such as arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint, periostitis of the jaw, or suppuration in a lymphatic gland, or to infection from the mouth along Stenson’s duct. The early symptoms are apt to be overshadowed by those of the general disease from which the patient suffers. At first the gland is swollen, hard and tender; later the part becomes red, oedematous and fluctuating. The movements of the jaw are restricted and painful, the patient is unable to open the mouth, and has difficulty in swallowing. The inflammation reaches its height on the third or fourth day, and ends in suppuration. The pus is scattered in numerous foci throughout the gland, and sometimes large sloughs form. The dense capsule of the gland prevents the pus reaching the surface and causes it to burrow among the tissues of the neck. It may find its way downwards towards the mediastinum, inwards towards the pharynx—where it constitutes one form of retro-pliaryngeal abscess,—or upwards towards the base of the skull. Not infrequently it burrows VOL. II—12