THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 26 Traumatic Intra-cranial Hemorrhage. Ilcemorrhage from rupture of intra-cranial vessels may take place (1) between the dura mater and the bone, (2) on to the surface of the brain, (3) into the cerebral substance, or (4) into the ventricles. Middle Meningeal Haemorrhage.—The commonest cause of extra-dural haemorrhage is laceration of the middle meningeal artery. This artery—a branch of the internal maxillary—after entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch which supply the meninges and calvaria. Either branch may be injured in association with fractures, or from incised, punctured, or gun-shot wounds. The vessel may be ruptured without the skull being fractured, and sometimes it is the artery on the side opposite to the seat of the blow which is torn. The most common situations for rupture are over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone (Fig. 5) (90 to 95 per cent.), and on the inner aspect of the temporal bone (5 to 10 per cent.). It is probable that the size of the haimorrhage depends on the nature, extent, and severity of the injury to the head. The recoil of the skull after the blow separates the dura from the bone, and if the meningeal artery is lacerated, or punctured, the blood is effused into the space thus formed. A localised blow therefore results in a small area of separation and a correspond- ingly small clot; while a diffuse blow is followed by more extensive lesions. It is believed that once the dura is partially separated, the force of the blood poured out from the lacerated artery is—on the principle of the hydraulic press—sufficient to continue the separation. Clinical Features.—The typical characteristics of middle meningeal haimorrhage are only met with when the bleeding takes place between the dura and the bone. Under these con- ditions the symptoms of concussion are usually most prominent at first, and those of compression only ensue after a varying interval during which the patient as a rule regains conscious- ness. In some cases, indeed, he is able to continue his work, or to walk home or to hospital, before any evidence of intra- cranial mischief manifests itself. This interval of consciousness helps to distinguish the symptoms due to middle meningeal haemorrhage from those of laceration of the brain substance, as in the latter the symptoms of concussion merge directly into those of compression.