THE URETHRA. 628 lips of the uro-genital sinus, and the urine escapes through an abnormal opening on the inferior aspect. In the slightest degree—hypospadias of the glans—the urethra opens in the situation of the frsenum at the base of the glans penis; the frsenum is absent, and the imperfectly developed prepuce overhangs the dorsal aspect of the glans like a hood. This variety is of little importance; the patient may have to lift up the penis by the prepuce in order to direct the stream of urine forwards, and in the treatment of urethral lesions it may inconvenience the surgeon, especially if the urethral orifice is unduly narrow, as it often is. The second degree is that in which the urethra opens on the under surface of the body of the penis—penile hypospadias. In front of the urethral opening there is a shallow groove lined with mucous membrane representing the roof of the urethra. The penis is curved with the concavity downwards, and attempts to straighten it are resisted by tight, scar-like, fibrous bands on either side of the median groove. The curving of the penis makes it difficult for the patient to urinate without wetting his clothes, and to perform the sexual act; even if he succeed in the latter, the seminal fluid may not enter the vagina. This deformity, therefore, calls for surgical interference, and this should be resorted to between the ages of six and twelve. The curve of the penis is redressed by cutting across the median groove and fibrous bands by a transverse incision which should be deep enough to extend into the septum between the corpora cavernosa. When the penis is straightened the wound becomes diamond shaped, and its edges are brought together so that they are parallel with the long axis of the penis. The penis is enveloped in gauze and strapped to the anterior abdominal wall. After an interval of some months an attempt is made to make a new floor to the urethra. To prevent the urine passing over the wound, the urethra is opened in the perineum and the bladder drained by means of a tube (Chiene). The floor of the urethra is fashioned from flaps derived from the scrotum or from the lateral aspects of the penis. In the third degree the scrotum is cleft, and the urethra opens in the perineum—scrotal or perineoscrotal hypospadias. The appearance of the external genitals resembles that in the female, and the determination of the sex of the infant may be difficult or impossible, especially if the testes have not de- scended. There are many cases on record in which the subject of complete hypospadias has been brought up as a female, and the condition has only been discovered accidentally in adult life.