68 DISEASES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. are indicated. Scalp wounds or compound fractures must bo thoroughly purified, and efficient drainage established. Time may be saved by hastening the separation of a sequestrum with the aid of an elevator or sharp spoon, or by chiselling away the dead part till healthy vascular bone is reached. It is some- times advisable to perform an osteo-plastic operation for the closure of the gap. This may be clone by raising from an adjacent part of the skull a flap containing scalp, periosteum, and the outer table, and transplanting this flap into the gap. Bone has also been transplanted from the lower animals. Plates of calcined bone, celluloid, silver, and other materials, have also been employed. When a permanent gap is left in the bone, the patient should wear a leather or metal shield over it to protect the brain from injury. Acute suppurative osteo- myelitis, the result of infection through the blood-stream, is described with diseases of bone. Tuberculosis of the bones of the cranial vault sometimes occurs as a primary disease in children. Clinically it appears as a soft, circumscribed, tender swelling —a cold abscess—which slowly reaches the surface. When the skin gives way characteristic tuberculous pus escapes through one or more sinuses. On the soft parts being reflected a circular area of necrosed bone, surrounded by granulation tissue, is exposed. This circular portion is separated as a sequestrum which usually includes the whole thickness of the skull, and it is not un- common to find a sinus leading through the bone to a collection of tuberculous debris between the skull and the dura mater. The abscess should be laid freely open, all tuberculous granula- tions scraped away, and the sequestrum removed, with the aid of the chisel if it has not already become loose. After healing is completed a depression or gap in the bone remains for a long time. Syphilis.—Syphilitic affections usually implicate the frontal and parietal bones, and occur during the tertiary period of the disease. The process generally begins in the periosteum, either in the form of multiple circumscribed gummata, which are flat, elastic and painless, or as a diffuse gummatous periostitis. The disease always runs a slow course, and is sooner or later complicated by the gumma breaking through the skin. Sinuses form, and septic infection usually takes place and leads to necrosis of the affected portion of bone. The sequestrum is very slowly separated. If anti-syphilitic treatment be adopted early, the prognosis is