DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. 199 fixing the parts by means of a splint or with hare-lip pins. When it results from disease, it is much less amenable to treat- ment. The most satisfactory results hitherto have been obtained by the injection of paraffin. The paraffin, with a melting-point of about 110° F., is slowly injected into the subcutaneous tissue, and while still fluid is moulded to the shape of the nose, care being taken to prevent it passing into the eyelids or on to the cheek. An artificial bridge has been made by turning down from the forehead a flap, including the periosteum and a shaving of the outer table of the skull. In other cases portions of bone or plates of gold, aluminium or celluloid have been implanted. Portions of the alee nasi may be lost from injury, or from ulceration such as lupus, syphilis or rodent cancer. After the destructive process has been arrested, the gap may be filled in by a flap taken from the cheek or adjacent part of the nose. When the tip of the nose is lost, it may be replaced by Syme’s operation, which consists in raising flaps from the cheeks and bringing them together in the middle line. The whole of the nose, including the cartilages and bones, may be destroyed by syphilitic ulceration or by lupus. In some parts of India the nose is sometimes cut off maliciously or as a punishment for certain crimes. Numerous operations have been devised for the restoration of the nose, but the results are not always satisfactory on account of the tendency of the transplanted tissues to contract and shrivel up. In the “Indian operation” a racket-shaped flap, including skin and periosteum, is turned down from the fore- head and fixed by sutures to the edges of the gap, which have been previously rawed. Rubber tubes are introduced into the nostrils to support the flap and to enable the patient to breathe through the nose. Plates of bone have been implanted to support the skin flaps and to prevent subsequent contraction. The “ Italian or Tagliacotian operation,” in which a pedicled flap is cut from the front of the forearm and fixed to the nose, has been almost entirely abandoned. When the deformity cannot be corrected by operation, the appearance of the patient may be greatly improved by his wearing an artificial nose held in posi- tion by spectacles. The term rhinophyma has been applied by Hebra to a condition in which the skin of the tip and alee of the nose becomes thick and coarse, and presents large, irregular, tuberous masses on which the orifices of the sebaceous follicles are unduly prominent—potato or hammer nose. The capillaries of the skin are dilated and tortuous, and the nose assumes a bluish-red