l’OTT’S DISEASE. 89 with angular deformity, but rather with a wide backward curvature, which corresponds in extent to the number of vertebras affected. Abscess formation is more frequent in periostitis than in osteomyelitis. Effects on the Spinal Cord and Nerve-roots.—In some cases there is an cedematous swelling of the membranes of the cord resulting from interference with their circulation. In others the tuberculous process attacks the dura mater, and gives rise to the formation of granulation tissue on its outer aspect — tuberculous pacht/-men- ingitis. Less frequently a collection of pus forms between the bone and the dura, and presses the cord back against the laminae. Occasionally a sequestrum becomes displaced backward and exerts pressure on the cord. The cord is never subjected to pressure as a result of curving of the spine alone, the lumen of the canal never being encroached upon to any extent. It sometimes happens, however, that the cord is nipped by sudden displacement of dis- eased vertebrae. This is practically equivalent to a fracture-dislocation of the spine. The severity of the symptoms is ag- gravated by the occurrence of inflam- mation of the cord—myelitis— which is not due to tuberculous disease of the cord, but to interference with its blood- supply from the associated meningitis. Repair.—When the progress of the disease is arrested, the natural cure of the condition is brought about by the bodies of the affected vertebrae becoming fused by osseous ankylosis (Fig. 16). While this reparative process is pro- gressing, the cicatricial contraction renders the angular deformity more acute, and it may go on increasing until the bones are completely consolidated. In rare cases the disease affects only the articular or the spinous processes, producing superficial caries and a localised abscess. Fig. 16.-—Osseous Ankylosis of Bodies of Dorsal Verte- brae following Pott’s Dis- ease. There is marked kyphosis at the seat of the disease and compensatory curves above and below. (Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)