675 NEURALGIA TESTIS. dragging sensation in the line of the cord, which gets worse towards evening, or after prolonged standing or walking. Nocturnal emissions are sometimes unduly frequent. In some cases the patient complains of severe neuralgic pain, and suffers from mental depression and sexual hypochondriasis, based on the fear that impotence and sterility may result. Treatment.—The majority of cases only call for palliative treatment, which consists in regulating the bowels, administering general tonics, and wearing a suspensory bandage. The applica- tion of a cold spray to the scrotum and surrounding parts night and morning is useful in bracing up the scrotum. At the same time the patient should be assured that the condition is an un- important one, which tends to pass off, and which is not liable to lead to any functional disability. When the swelling increases and causes pain and discomfort, or when it is a bar to the patient entering one of the public services, it should be treated by operation. An incision, about two inches long, is made over the inguinal region in order to expose the cord just below the external abdominal ring. The vas and its accompanying vessels are first isolated and hooked aside. The spermatic veins are then dissected out, ligatured between forceps, and divided as they enter the inguinal canal. By traction on the lower segment the testis and cord can be pulled towards the wound, and the dilated veins of the pampiniform plexus exposed and isolated. A ligature is passed round the mass close to the epididymis, and the veins are then removed. The divided ends of the veins are then brought together in order to shorten the cord and allow the scrotum to contract. Some surgeons advise the removal of an elliptical portion of the scrotum when it is unusually long and lax, but this is seldom necessary. The patient should remain in bed for a fortnight or three weeks, and should wear a suspensory bandage for some months after the operation. Neuralgia Testis.—In this condition the patient is liable to repeated attacks of paroxysmal pain referred to the testis. It may occur at puberty or in adult life, and is usually met with in men of a highly neurotic temperament. The condition may be a pure neuralgia, or may be attributable to inflammatory ad- hesions or cicatrices in the tunica vaginalis, the testis or vas deferens, to fibrous bodies in the tunica vaginalis, a small encysted hydrocele, a new growth, or a varicocele. In other cases the neuralgia is associated with such conditions as irritation of the prostatic urethra or neck of the bladder, the presence of a renal calculus, oxaluria, gout, persistent constipation or an anal fissure.