436 THE INTESTINES. greater nicety if a bone bobbin is introduced into the lumen of the bowel. If the segment of bowel affected is the seat of a tubular stricture, or of several strictures in close proximity to one another, and especially if it is bent on itself and involved in adhesions, the alternative lies between performing an immediate resection (enterectomy), and establishing an anastomosis between the bowel above and below the diseased segment (entero-anastomosis). Enterectomy is the more satisfactory procedure if the conditions are favourable for its performance. It is essential that the resection should extend beyond the disease to such a distance that a section of healthy bowel is obtained for immediate union by sutures. Inequality in the size of the lumen of the respective sections is overcome by cutting across the lower contracted bowel obliquely, and by slitting it on the side opposite the mesenteric attachment. Entero-anastomosis is preferred where there is extensive matting from adhesions. Recourse should only be had to the formation of an artificial anus—enterostomy —in critical and urgent cases, because of the irritating effects of the contents of the small intestine on the surrounding skin, and because of the loss to the patient of nutrient matter. There is serious risk of starvation if the opening is situated in the jejunum. If an artificial anus is necessary to tide the patient over a critical period, a second and curative operation must be performed as soon as possible—not later than a week or ten days after the first. Congenital Malformations.—Certain congenital malforma- tions of the bowel may give rise to clinical features closely resembling those of stricture, for example, narrowing of the gut due to the presence of a diaphragm or septum stretching across the intestine, with a central aperture through which only fluid is able to pass. Obstructive symptoms may occur at any time from changes in the intestinal contents, or from inflammatory changes in the wall of the gut, although the condition is quite compatible with the attainment of adult life. Complete obliteration of a longer or shorter segment of the intestine proves fatal within a few days after birth, and is not amenable to surgical treatment, although life may be prolonged for a time by the formation of an artificial anus. An interesting variety of congenital abnormality is that which causes what used to be described as 11 idiopathic dilatation of the colon ” in children. It appears to depend upon a congenital contraction of the rectum and lower part of the colon, or upon kinking of the bowel at the junction of pelvic colon and rectum.