525 INTERNAL PILES. of mucus takes place, and in some cases this gives rise to con- siderable irritation and pruritis of the skin around the anus. Diagnosis.—A local examination should always be made on a patient who complains of “ idles,” as this term is applied by the laity to all conditions affecting the lower bowel, and it is necessary to exclude such affections as condylomata, fistula, and cancer. In cases of piles it is usually found that the skin around the anus is loose and lax, and that the normal folds or rugae are markedly redundant and often cedematous. If the piles are of long standing and are uncomplicated by fissure or ulceration, the sphincters are usually relaxed, and the piles can be brought into view by the patient straining slightly. When a fissure or ulcer is present the sphincters are spasmodically contracted, and the piles cannot be brought down by straining. The piles may be seen with the speculum, but a digital examination does not always reveal their presence, in many cases nothing more than a series of ridges on the mucous membrane close to the anal orifice being recognisable. In the majority of cases the upper part of the rectum contains feces even although there has been a recent action of the bowels. Inflammation and Strangulation of Internal Piles. — In some cases internal piles periodically become the seat of acute inflammation—phlebitis and periphlebitis—attended with pain, tenesmus, and bleeding, while the skin around the anal margin is swollen and cedematous. This condition, which is spoken of as “an attack of the piles,” lasts for a few days, and then gradually subsides. It frequently happens also that piles of the second degree, after becoming prolapsed, are so tightly grasped by the sphincter that the circulation through them is completely obstructed. The extruded mass becomes swollen and oede- matous, blood escapes from the distended vessels into the surrounding connective tissue, and in some cases gangrene of the piles takes place. This occurrence is accompanied by severe local pain and some constitutional disturbance. When the slough separates the stump of the pile returns to the bowel, and the patient obtains relief. Piles of the third degree also may become engorged from various causes, notably septic infection, and be so tightly constricted that they slough off. Pyaemia has been known to follow septic thrombosis of piles. Treatment.—All cases of piles of the first degree, and mild cases of the second degree, should be treated by palliative measures in the first instance. As constipation is usually present the bowels should be carefully regulated by the