TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 643 eucain and adrenalin should be injected beforehand. The pas- sage of instruments is often made easier if the urethra is distended with sterilised oil or glycerine. In difficult cases the entrance to the stricture may be found with the aid of the endoscope it the point of the bougie catches in the mucous membrane it should be slightly withdrawn and then pushed on again the urethra being kept on the stretch by making traction on’ the penis. _ In the case of steel bougies, when there is difficulty at the triangular ligament the left forefinger in the rectum controls tiie pomt of the instrument, and ensures its being kept in the middle line. It is in this region that “false passages ” are most often made, the point of the instrument perforating the urethra and being felt between the prostate and the wall of the rectum’ it false passages already exist, dilatation is better deferred for two or three weeks. No force is permitted until the instrument is fairly engaged in the stricture and is felt to be grasped by it Above the size of No. 5 (English), conical metal bougies such as those of Lister or Clnene are most serviceable. The latter have a shorter curve (one-sixth of the circumference of a circle whose diameter is three inches), and the point is therefore more under the control of the surgeon. The amount of dilatation w lch .10u^ 1:)e camed out at each sitting varies in different cases; in some the full size (15-17 English scale) may be attained m one oi two sittings, m others such rapid progress is inadvisable oi impossible. The patient should always make water just before the instruments are passed, so that the bladder may not require to be emptied for some hours after, and a hot drink and a full dose of antipyrin or quinine should be given to prevent rigors. ° 1 L If there is more than one stricture, the anterior one is fully dikted m the first instance. After the stricture has been dilated to the nil size, it is most important that a bougie be passed at intervals, otherwise recontraction is almost certain to take place these intervals are gradually lengthened till once a year may suffice If the patient is to pass the instrument himself, he should use a black olivary bougie (size 9-13), and should be warned of the risk of continuing to use an instrument which has become rough, cracked, or brittle. Continuous Dilatation.—The largest catheter that the stricture will admit is tied m for twenty-four hours, after which it is found to be quite loose, and a much larger instrument can then be passed. This “ vital dilatation,” as it was formerly called depends partly on the exhaustion of muscular spasm, and partly on softening of the scar tissue. The method is not free from