465 CHOLELITHIASIS. occur. In the course of a few clays the patient becomes jaundiced from absorption of the bile extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, and examination of the abdomen reveals the presence of free fluid in the cavity, sometimes in enormous quantity. The fluid consists of serum, bile, and blood, with flakes of fibrin, and there is a deposit of fibrin on the surface of the serous membrane. In penetrating wounds there is the usual risk of septic infection, and bile and blood may be discharged externally. The prognosis is on the whole more favourable than in similar lesions of other abdominal viscera. If the condition is diagnosed, the abdomen should be opened, the fluid evacuated, and the peritoneal cavity washed out. If the gall-bladder is merely torn, it may be stitched up, but if much damaged, it should be removed. The abdominal wound should be drained. Affections due to Gall - Stones — Chole - lithiasis.—While gall- stones or biliary calculi are extremely frequent, they cause symptoms only in a minority of cases. Affections due to gall-stones are much more commonly met with in women than in men. Characters and Formation of Gall-Stones.—Gall-stones present great variation in number and size. A solitary stone is usually shaped like an egg, a hazel-nut or a walnut; multiple stones are usually faceted (Fig. 107). They vary in colour from a whitish yellow to dark green or black, according to the proportion of bile pigment present. While usually firm and hard, they are sometimes so soft as to be readily crushed between the fingers. They are almost exclusively formed in the gall- bladder, very rarely in the hepatic ducts. Their chief constituent —cholesterin—is derived from the epithelium lining the gall- bladder and bile-ducts. Biliary calculi are believed to result from a catarrh of the mucous membrane following upon bacterial infection of the biliary passages, the infection being usually VOL. II—30 Fig. 107.—Gall-Stones removed from the Gall- Bladder of a Woman suffering from recurrent biliary colic.