93 POTT’S DISEASE. bulge towards one or botli sides of the neck, and come to the surface behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle (Fig. 17). In some cases it comes to the surface in the sub-occipital region. If the cord is pressed upon by inflammatory products there is muscular weakness, beginning in the arms and passing to the legs, and sometimes followed by complete paralysis. The bladder and rectum are usually implicated. Sudden death may result when dislocation of the atlo-axoid joint takes place. Cervical caries has to be diagnosed from sprain of the cervical vertebrae, muscular rheumatism, and suppurating cervical glands. Retro-pharyngeal abscess due to other causes is described with diseases of the pharynx. Treatment.—Extension is applied to the head, preferably by means of an elastic band fixed to the top of the bed. The head of the bed is raised on blocks so that the weight of the patient’s body may furnish the necessary counter-extension. Lateral movements of the head are prevented by means of sand-bags. Counter-irritation may be applied to the sides of the neck. After the acute symptoms have subsided the spine should be fixed by means of some rigid apparatus, such as a double Thomas’s splint. A retro-pharyngeal:abscess should be opened from the side of the neck by an incision along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, as first recommended by Chiene. The contents are evacuated, and the cavity filled with iodoform emulsion and closed without drainage. An opening made through the mouth is attended with the risks of pus being inhaled into the air passages and of septic infection. When the patient is allowed to get up, a rigid collar, which supports the head and controls the movement of the cervical and dorsal vertebrae, must be worn until the cure is complete. Cervico-dorsal Region.—When the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae are affected, in addition to the fixed pain in the diseased bones, the patient complains of pain radiating along the distribution of the superficial cervical nerves and down the arms. There is often a marked angular deformity. If an abscess forms, it may come to the surface in the lower part of the posterior triangle, or may spread into the posterior media- stinum or into the axilla. Sometimes the pus burrows behind the oesophagus and trachea, and it may find its way into the pleural cavity. The cord is less frequently involved than when the disease is in the lower dorsal region. Pupillary symptoms