516 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. meat becomes indurated and oedematous. On rectal examina- tion a tense, elastic swelling, which does not encroach much on the bowel, can be detected in the ischio-rectal fossa. The symptoms may suddenly abate if the abscess bursts either into the rectum or on to the surface, but the opening being small is liable to become blocked and the symptoms reappear. In some cases the recurrence of symptoms is due to the formation of an abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa of the opposite side. The pus which escapes may be yellow and creamy, or dark brown and grumous from admixture with broken-down blood-clot. It is always extremely foetid, and often contains putrefactive gases. When the abscess is tuberculous it runs a more chronic course. Treatment.—No time should be wasted by applying poultices, ice-bags, or other local applications, in the hope of aborting the abscess. As early as possible a crucial or T-shaped incision should be made into the abscess, and the finger introduced and all septa broken down. The cavity is then purified and efficiently drained. The after-treatment is carried out on the lines already indicated for perianal abscess. The submucous abscess originates in the submucous tissue of the lower part of the rectum, and is usually due either to injury of the mucous membrane by a foreign body, or to a tear or ulcer near the base of a polypus or pile. The pus is almost always confined to one lateral aspect of the bowel, and it tends to burrow towards the anus, and to burst close to the anal margin, forming a short and shallow blind internal fistula (Fig. 120«). The symptoms resemble those of an ischio-rectal abscess, but there is no external swelling. Digital examination causes much more intense pain, and a soft, fluctuating swelling can be felt bulging towards the bowel. If the abscess is not burst by the introduction of the finger into the rectum it should be incised at its lowest part and drained. The pelvi-rectal abscess (Fig. 116) is situated between the rectum and the levator ani muscle, in the loose connective tissue which is continuous above with the various cellular planes of the pelvis. It differs from the other varieties in that it is comparatively seldom due to disease or injury of the rectum itself, in the majority of cases originating in the pelvis in relation to the base of the bladder, the prostate, the uterus, or the broad ligament. Sometimes the pus from a psoas or an appendicitic abscess, or from a focus of disease in the [pelvic bones, finds its way into the pelvi-rectal space. Very frequently