THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 678 tonics, with the change of air and scene obtained by a sea voyage, or to have recourse to local measures such as those recom- mended by Eugene Fuller. The procedure called “ stripping the vesicles ” consists in emptying the distended sacs by means of the tip of the forefinger introduced into the rectum, the pressure being extended in a downward direction towards the termina- tion of the vesicle in the ejaculatory duct. This is done several times until the vesicles are empty. The patient bends forwards at a right angle over the back of a chair; the vesicles are more easily reached if the bladder is full; the expressed discharge appears at the meatus. Benefit results not only from the mechanical emptying of the distended vesicle, but from the manipulation acting as massage. The procedure is repeated once a week or once a fortnight. Tuberculous disease is commonly met with in young adults in association with tubercle in the prostate and epididymis. Unless complicated with gonorrhoeal infection, the disease is chronic and painless, and is only recognised on rectal examina- tion ; the vesicle is so thickened that it resembles a solid cake- like mass, and is not at all tender on pressure. A cold abscess may form and burrow in various directions. Tuberculous peritonitis is an occasional complication. Prognosis and treatment are influenced by the same con- siderations as in tuberculosis of the prostate. Surgical measures directed to the vesicular disease are rarely called for except in the case of abscess, which is attacked by the perineal route, the dissection being continued between the prostate and rectum until the abscess cavity is reached. The Tunica Vaginalis. Hydrocele.—The term hydrocele is used somewhat loosely to indicate a collection of fluid in relation to the testis, its appendages or its coverings. In a more restricted sense, it refers to a collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Acute Hydrocele.—This term is applied to the serous effusion which takes place into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in the course of inflammatory conditions of the testis and epididymis and after injuries of these organs. The fluid is an ordinary inflammatory exudate, and differs from that met with in chronic forms of hydrocele in being more rich in cells, more highly coagulable, and more liable to be followed by adhesions between the walls of the sac. The condition is apt to be overlooked