COMPLICATIONS OF APPENDICITIS. 347 while the bladder is contracting, and especially at the end of micturition. There may also be rectal tenesmus, and pain shooting down the right leg. In addition to these pelvic symptoms a phlegmonous swelling may be felt in the iliac fossa. Rupture of an appendicular abscess on the skin surface is only observed in neglected cases, and is usually followed by persistent sinuses and sometimes by a faecal fistula. Rupture into the bowel is usually followed by marked improvement in the general and local symptoms, and, in the case of a large abscess, by the appearance of pus in the stools. If an abscess bursts into the bladder, pus appears in the urine. Complications, such as parotitis, pleurisy, hepatic or sub- phrenic abscess and general pyaemia, are occasionally met with, sometimes in cases in which the original appendicital lesion has not been recognised. Thrombosis of the iliac veins may ensue and cause a persistent oedema of the lower extremity. Appendicitis complicated by diffuse Peritonitis and Peritoneal Septicaemia. — The cases included under this head constitute the gravest forms of appendicitis, sometimes spoken of as fulminating or foudroyant appendicitis, and are the chief source of the mortality from this affection. At the onset the symptoms are those common to all forms of acute appendicitis, and it is rarely possible to recognise the gravity of the case until after the lapse of twelve, eighteen or twenty-four hours. The symptoms of general infection progress without any evidence of local reaction. The symptoms of most value as indicating the gravity of the case are collapse, subnormal temperature, and a rapid, feeble pulse. The appearance of the face is altered, the features becoming drawn and pinched, and the expression anxious. Vomiting is usually persistent, and is not preceded by retching. The abdominal walls are rigid, and in the later stages the abdomen becomes distended. There may be nothing to indicate the appendicular origin of the disease, although pain and tenderness are usually more marked in the right iliac fossa than elsewhere. As these cases are not attended with any reaction on the part of the tissues, the leucocyte count is seldom of any value. The patient may die within thirty-six hours of the onset of the condition, and he is often to the end remarkably calm and free from suffering, and fails to realise the gravity of his condition. In less severe cases there is some swelling in the iliac fossa, and other evidence of peritoneal reaction. The patient may live for several days, the final symptoms often being those of intestinal obstruction due to paralysis of the bowel.