212 CHAPTER XVI. THE NECK. Surgical anatomy — Malformations : Branchial Jislulce; Cervical auricles—Wry-neck : Varieties; Cicatricial contraction—Injuries: Contusions — Fractures of hyoid, larynx, etc. ; Cut - throat — Inflammatory affections: Diffuse cellulitis; Actinomycosis; Boils and carbuncles — Tumours : Cystic: Branchial cysts; Cystic lymphangioma ; Blood cysts ; Bursal cysts — Solid : Lipoma ; Fibroma ; Osteoma ; Sarcoma ; Carcinoma—Cervical rib. Surgical Anatomy.—In the middle line the following structures may be recognised on palpation: (1) the hyoid bone, lying below and behind the body of the lower jaw, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra ; (2) the thijro-hyoid membrane, behind which lies the base of the epiglottis and the upper opening of the larynx ; (3) the thyroid cartilage, to the angle of which the vocal cords are attached about its middle ; (4) the crico-thyroid membrane, across which run transversely the crico-thyroid branches of the superior thyroid arteries; (5) the cricoid cartilage, which is one of the most important surgical landmarks in the neck. It lies opposite the disc between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and at this level the common carotid artery may be compressed against the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra —the carotid tubercle. The cricoid also marks the junction of the larynx with the trachea, and of the pharynx with the oesophagus. At this point there is a constriction in the food passage, and foreign bodies are frequently impacted here. At the level of the cricoid cartilage the omo-hyoid crosses the carotid artery—a point of importance in connection with ligation of that vessel. The middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic lies opposite the level of the cricoid ; (6) seven or eight rings of the trachea lie above the level of the sternum, but they cannot be palpated individually. The isthmus of the thyroid gland covers the second, third and fourth tracheal rings. As the trachea passes dovra the neck, it gradually recedes from the surface, till at the level of the sternum it lies about an inch and a half from the skin. The thyroidea ima artery—an inconstant branch of the innominate or of the aorta— runs in front of the trachea as far up as the thyroid isthmus. The inferior thyroid plexus of veins also lies in front of the trachea. In children under two years of age the thymus gland may extend for some distance into the neck in front of the trachea and carotid vessels, under cover of the depressors of the hyoid bone.