73 ‘RAILWAY SPINE’ loss of power and numbness in the legs. Simple concussion of the cord is practically never attended with the symptoms charac- teristic of “railway spine”—a condition with which it is often confused—and it is very rarely, if ever, followed by organic disease of the cord (Byrorn Bramwell). The treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed, preferably in the prone position, applying ice-bags to the spine, and administering ergot when bleeding is suspected. The bladder must also be attended to. “ Railway Spine.”—This term has been employed to indicate a peculiar disturbance of the nervous system which frequently develops in patients who have been in railway accidents. The condition is seldom, if ever, met with in its characteristic form after injuries sustained in any other way. It is a remarkable fact that it seldom occurs in railway employees, or in passengers who sustain gross injuries, such as fractures or lacerated wounds. Clinical Features.—The patient usually gives a history of having been forcibly thrown backwards and forwards across the carriage at the time of the accident. He is stunned and dazed for a moment, or, it may be, is little the worse at the time, and is able to continue his journey. On reaching his destination, however, he feels weak and nervous and has pain in his back and limbs. There is no local sign of injury, beyond, perhaps, slight bruising of the back. For a few days he may be able to attend to business, but eventually feels unfit for it and has to give it up. The symptoms which subsequently develop are for the most part purely subjective, and they vary widely in different cases. They usually include a feeling of general weakness, nervousness, and inability to concentrate attention on work or business matters. The patient is sleepless, or his sleep is disturbed by terrifying dreams. His memory is defective, or rather selective, as he can usually recall the circumstances of the accident with clearness and accuracy. He becomes irritable and emotional. He complains of sensations of weight or fulness in the head, and of temporary giddiness. There is weakness of vision and photo- phobia, but there are no ophthalmoscopic changes. He is hypersensitive to sounds and sometimes complains of noises in the ears. He has pains in the back on attempting movement, and there is a diffuse tenderness or hypermstliesia along the spine. There is weakness of the limbs, sometimes attended with numbness, and he is easily fatigued by walking. There may be loss of sexual power and irritability of the bladder; retention is extremely rare. The patient tends to lose weight, and may acquire an anxious careworn expression, and appear