62 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. (III.) Oculo-motor Nerve.—One or more of the branches of this nerve are liable to be compressed by extravasated blood, or contused and lacerated in fractures implicating the region of the sphenoidal fissure. Tumours and aneurysms growing in this region also press upon the nerve. Sometimes both nerves are implicated, for example, in fractures involving both sides of the anterior fossa, and in tumours, particularly gummata, growing in the region of the floor of the third ventricle. In lesions of the cerebral hemispheres the third nerve is very frequently paralysed. Its cortical centre lies in close proximity to the centre for the face. The most prominent symptoms of complete paralysis are ptosis or drooping of the upper eyelid, external strabismus, and slight downward rotation of the eye. There is also dilatation of the pupil from paralysis of the circular fibres of the iris, and loss of accommodation from paralysis of the ciliary muscle. Paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve is fre- quently associated with paralysis of other ocular muscles. When all the muscles of the eye are paralysed, the condition is usually due to syphilitic disease in the floor of the third ventricle, and is known as “ophthalmoplegia externa.” (IV.) The Patheticus Nerve, which supplies the superior oblique muscle, may suffer in the same way as the third nerve. When it is paralysed there is defective movement of the eye downward and outward, and diplopia or double vision may be complained of when the patient looks downward. (V.) Trigeminal or Trifacial Nerve.—The most important surgical affection of this nerve is “ trigeminal neuralgia,” which has already been described (vol. i. p. 334). One or other of the divisions of the nerve may be torn in fractures of the base of the skull, and give rise to anaesthesia in the area supplied by it. In fractures crossing the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the great and small superficial petrosal nerves may be ruptured, with the result that the soft palate and uvula are paralysed and there is difficulty in swallowing. There are also painful sensations in the ear. When the ophthalmic division is implicated, the conjunctiva is rendered insensitive, and con- junctivitis, which may be followed by ulceration of the cornea, results from exposure to dust and other foreign bodies, which, on account of the anaesthetic condition of the eye, are allowed to remain and cause irritation. (VI.) Abducens Nerve. — This nerve, which supplies the external rectus muscle, has the longest course within the skull of any of the cranial nerves. In spite of this fact, it is com-