TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. 349 as there is no condition which requires more careful watch- ing. The patient is confined to bed until all the symptoms dis- appear, and is carefully nursed till the health is completely restored, when the question of removing the appendix may be considered. Operative Treatment. — One of the greatest practical diffi- culties with regard to the treatment of acute appendicitis is to determine the moment at which operative interference is called for. The indications vary so widely in individual cases that it is only possible here to suggest certain general rules by which we are guided. Operation is indicated within the first twelve hours if from the outset the symptoms assume a grave character, as, for example, in cases of so-called fulminating appendicitis. Early or immediate operation is nearly always called for in appendicitis of acute onset in children, because of the frequency with which the affection terminates in suppuration and in gangrene. The abdominal cavity is opened by an incision in the line of the fibres of the external oblique, over the usual situation of the appendix. The diffuse nature of the lesion is evidenced by the presence of turbid serum or pus amongst the intestines and omentum. Although the infection is diffuse, it must not be inferred that it is generalised throughout the peritoneal cavity, and it is therefore safer not to irrigate at this stage for fear of spreading the infection. The exudation should be mopped up with gauze, and the extent of the infected area ascertained by careful exploration. The appendix is sought for and removed. Drainage is provided for by one or more tubes surrounded by iodoform worsted. A second incision may be required in the middle line for cleansing purposes and to drain the pelvis. The tubes may usually be removed at the end of twenty-four hours, and the worsted after two or three days. A smaller amount of packing is introduced, and renewed at intervals until the wound is healed. At first the patient is stimulated and nourished by the rectum. After twenty-four hours the bowels should be encouraged to move by means of repeated small doses of calomel, or sulphate or phosphate of soda. In operating as above for acute appendicital peritonitis, difficulty may arise from paralytic distension of the bowel. We have seen cases where the caecum was so greatly distended that it was necessary to open and empty it before access could be obtained to the appendix. In other cases the risk of obstruction has been so great, that before closing the abdomen we have inserted a drainage tube into the caecum, or into one