543 METHODS OF EXAMINATION. inner side of a renal tumour; on the left, the descending colon crosses in front of it. Examination of the Bladder with the Cystoscope.—This in- strument resembles a sound in shape. The beak, which is about an inch long, joins the shaft at an open angle and contains near its tip an incandescent lamp, by which the interior of the bladder is illuminated, the wires passing back inside the shaft to be connected with a suitable battery. The shaft also contains a telescope. At the junction of the shaft and the beak is a prism which refracts the rays of light reflected from the object illuminated on to the end of the telescope, and thus into line with the observer’s eye. The optical part of the cystoscope is remov- able, so that the instrument can be sterilised by boiling. To bring the object under examination into focus the beak is approached to or withdrawn from it. The image is an inverted one. In using the instrument a general anaesthetic is not necessary. In the male the urethra is rendered insensitive, after the usual disinfection, by injecting two or three drachms of a 1 per cent, solution of eucain by means of a syringe provided with a urethral nozzle ; the anterior end of the penis is then clamped and the eucain pressed along into the posterior urethra by stroking movements. After an interval of ten minutes, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, the bladder is washed out with boracic lotion until the solution returns quite clear, and from six to ten ounces left in the bladder. The cystoscope, which has been sterilised, is then introduced, and when in the bladder, the circuit which turns on the light is completed. Having made a general survey of the mucous membrane of the bladder—which is normally of a pinkish-white colour with ramifying blood-vessels running in it—attention is directed to the trigone, and especially to the openings of the ureters. If the ureters are functionating and if the urine escaping from them is normal, a wave-like movement is visible in the fluid each time the orifice opens. If there is pyuria from one kidney, minute particles are seen floating in the wave of fluid like dust in a sunbeam. If there is hamiaturia, a whorl of bloody urine is seen to escape or a blood-clot may project from the ureteral opening. In unilateral renal disease the ureteral orifice may project or be retracted, or the mucous membrane around it may be markedly injected or show minute superficial ulcers. It is important to observe whether there are two ureteral openings, and if so, whether both are functionating. Separation of the Secretion from each Kidney—“ One-Kidney Urine.”—Various instruments, known as separators, have been