479 PANCREATITIS. Wounds implicating the pancreas are usually rapidly fatal from haemorrhage or from accompanying injuries to adjacent viscera. Diseases—Pancreatitis.—The essential cause of the various forms of pancreatitis is bacterial infection, and the usual channel of infection is by way of the duct, the organisms passing from the duodenum or from the common bile-duct. Less frequently the infection is derived from the blood—as in pyaemia; or by direct extension from neighbouring organs—as in ulcer of the stomach. Catarrh of the stomach and duodenum, and gall- stones, are common antecedents of pancreatitis. Fat Necrosis.—In diseases of the pancreas, and especially in acute pancreatitis, a condition known as fat necrosis is met with. It consists in the splitting up of the fat molecules into fatty acids and glycerine : the glycerine, being soluble, is absorbed; the fatty acids are deposited in a crystalline form within the fat cells and cause their necrosis. In time the fatty acids unite with calcium to form lime salts. The change is met with chiefly in the fat around the pancreas, in the mesentery and omentum, and in the retro-peritoneal tissue, and is recognised by the minute opaque white areas scattered through the fat. It appears to be due to the penetration of the fat-splitting ferment of the pancreatic juice into living adipose tissue in the presence of conditions interfering with the passage of the secretion into the intestine. Pancreatic disease may also be attended with hceviorrhage, which takes place into the pancreas itself, or is widely diffused throughout the surrounding tissues. When the haemorrhage is a marked feature, the condition is known as haemorrhagic pan- creatitis. The onset of acute pancreatitis is sudden and is attended with pain in the epigastrium, nausea and vomiting, which may lead to the condition being mistaken for intestinal obstruction. There is marked tenderness above the umbilicus, and the upper part of the abdomen becomes distended; the temperature may be raised, and the patient be delirious. Death usually super- venes in from two to five days. In the less acute forms the patient survives for a longer period, and suppuration usually occurs. The pus may be diffuse throughout the gland, or may be collected into one or more localised abscesses of variable size. The symptoms are similar to those observed in the acute form, but are less severe. Constipation gives place to diarrhoea, the stools are foetid, and may contain pus and blood. The tempera- ture is very irregular. The patient loses flesh and strength, and presents the features of chronic septic poisoning. The formation