483 CYSTS OF THE PANCREAS. If the stomach be distended with gas, its relations to the cyst are readily demonstrated. The symptoms of which the patient complains are mainly the result of pressure. Thus, for example, he may suffer from in- digestion and vomiting from pressure on the stomach; breath- lessness from pressure on the diaphragm; disturbance of the bowels from pressure on the colon. A cyst in the head of the pancreas bile-duct and cause jaundice. In loss of flesh is usually a prominent may press on the common true cysts of the pancreas, symptom. Puncture of the cyst for diagnostic purposes should never be practised, as it involves the risk of extravasation or of puncturing the stomach or colon. If the diagnosis is doubtful, an exploratory opera- tion should be performed. Treatment. — The treatment consists in opening and draining the cyst, and this is usually done through an incision in the an- terior abdominal wall. After the abdomen has been opened, the rela- tions of the cyst to the stomach and colon are first investigated. When the cyst projects between the stomach and the colon—the commonest situation—its wall is exposed by dividing the gastro-colic omentum. Before the cyst is opened its wall should be sutured to the parietal peritoneum, but if it is so thin as to make this impossible, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze. The cyst is drained by means of a rubber tube, for which gauze may be substituted when the discharge has diminished in quantity. The surrounding skin should be smeared with ointment in case the fluid draining away from the cyst should possess digestive properties. The filling up of the cavity and the closing of the sinus may take from four to six weeks, or may be delayed considerably longer. Cysts arising from the tail of the pancreas usually project in the left lumbar region, and may be opened and drained from the loin, behind the peritoneum. Fig. 110.—-Pancreatic Cyst below the Stomach and crossed by Transverse Colon.