590 THE URINARY BLADDER. rectum, the incision is made in the middle line of the perineum, as in rupture of the posterior urethra. Suture of the rent in the bladder is carried out after the method employed in other hollow viscera, except that fine catgut is to be preferred to silk, and the sutures must not project on the mucous surface, as this may result in the deposition of phosphates from the urine. One row of Lembert sutures is passed through the serous and whole thickness of the muscular coat, and a second through the serous coat only. After complet- ing the operation a catheter may be tied in the bladder aucl attached to a suction apparatus, or the patient may be directed to void his urine every two or three hours. Penetrating Wounds.—These result chiefly from falls on pointed objects, stabs, and gunshot injuries. The penetrating- instrument may enter through the anterior abdominal wall, the vagina, the rectum, or the perineum, or by way of the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen. Under this heading also may be included wounds accidentally inflicted on the bladder in the course of pelvic operations, and in the radical cure of hernia. Gunshot wounds are usually associated with injury to the pelvic bones. The clinical features are similar to those of ruptured bladder, and similar dangerous complications are liable to ensue. The escape of blood-stained urine by the external wound is not constant. Unaided recovery is most likely to occur in wounds traversing the perineum, the vagina, or the rectum. In some cases a urinary fistula persists, and if a foreign body has been carried into the bladder it may form the nucleus of a calculus. The treatment is the same as in ruptured bladder; if the peritoneal cavity is not implicated, it is usually sufficient to open up and drain the external wound; means are also taken to combat septic infection in the bladder. Foreign Bodies.—A wide range of objects have been met with in the bladder, and these may gain access by various routes. Bodies entering by the urethra include portions of catheters, lithotrites, or other instruments introduced by the patient or surgeon ; and hair-pins, pencils, and similar objects employed for onanistic purposes by the patient. As a result of suppurative and ulcerative processes involving the wall of the bladder, various objects may gain access to its interior, as for example sequestra from disease of the pelvic bones, hairs and teeth from ovarian dermoids, or silk threads employed in operations in the vicinity of the bladder. The clinical features vary with the foreign body. A pointed object, such as a hair-pin, may cause