CICATRICIAL STRICTURE. 241 lower end. Between meals the patient hawks up a quantity of viscid saliva mixed with mucus. There is pain, referred to the epigastrium or between the shoulder-blades, especially if there is ulceration above the stricture and the patient requires to force the food through. Owing to the insufficiency of the food and fluids which enter the stomach, the patient suffers from hunger and thirst, and progressively emaciates. Perforation may occur above the stricture and set up a septic cellulitis of the neck. The diagnosis is made by a consideration of the history, and may be confirmed by the use of oesophageal bougies. By beginning with a full-sized olive-headed bougie and passing smaller and smaller instruments until the whole length of the oesophagus has been explored, the site, number, size, and shape of the strictures may be learned. Treatment.—Before an attempt is made to dilate the stricture by bougies, the patient should be laid up in bed for a few days, and fed upon bland fluid diet or by euemata, to diminish congestion and allay spasm of the oesophageal walls. If the stricture is only moderately tight, it may be dilated by graduated bougies passed every third or fourth day till the normal calibre is restored, after which a full-sized instrument should be passed at least once a month for the rest of the patient’s life. In some cases of resilient stricture the method of continuous dilatation is to be preferred. A Symond’s intubation tube is passed through the stricture and left in place for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, by which time the stricture is sufficiently dilated to admit of a larger tube being introduced. Larger and larger tubes are passed until the calibre of the oesophagus is restored. During the treatment the patient is fed through the tube. If it is impossible to pass any instrument from the mouth, the oesophagus may be opened in the neck and bougies passed through the wound. Attempts to divide the stricture from within by shielded knives (internal oesophagotomy) are not to be recommended on account of the risk of septic cellulitis. In cases of impermeable stricture near the lower end of the oesophagus the stomach should be opened and retrograde dilata- tion practised, a bougie being passed from the stomach to the mouth and fixed in position. The wound in the stomach is closed, and gradual dilatation of the stricture subsequently carried out. Another method, suggested by Abbe, consists in performing a preliminary gastrostomy, passing a bougie with a stout silk string attached, and securing the end of the string, which is