517 ANO-RECTAL FISTULA. the pus burrows through the substance of the levator ani and invades the ischio-rectal fossa. The clinical features vary with the nature and seat of origin of the abscess. In most cases they are those of an ordinary pelvic cellulitis, followed by the development of a localised abscess in the vicinity of the rectum. In other cases they resemble those of an ischio-rectal abscess. On digital examina- tion of the rectum, a swelling is found bulging towards the bowel above the level of the internal sphincter, and, it may be, extend- ing beyond the reach of the linger. The treatment consists in opening the abscess at its accessible part, establishing efficient drainage, and dealing with the lesion from which it originated. Ano-Rectal Fistul.e.—The term fistula-in-ano is applied to any abnormal channel passing through the tissues in the vicinity of the rectum and anus, and opening either on to the skin or into the rectum, or in both directions. Three varieties are recog- nised : (1) the complete fistula, which opens both on the cutane- ous and on the mucous surfaces (Fig. 117); (2) the blind external fistula, which opens only towards the skin (Fig. 119); and (3) the blind internal, which opens only towards the mucous membrane (Fig. 120). Inasmuch as the blind forms have only one opening they would be more correctly described as sinuses. The fistulous track represents the shrunken but unobliterated cavity of an abscess, which has been prevented from healing by various causes, the most important of which are imperfect drain- age and constant reinfection of the raw surfaces. Other factors which favour the formation and persistence of fistula are the passage of faeces and flatus along the channel, the constant movement of the parts, caused by the contraction of the sphincters and other muscles, and the irregularity of the abscess cavity. It is most common in males beyond the age of thirty. The complete fistula is the form most frequently met with, about 70 per cent, of all cases being of this variety. It is usually due to an ischio-rectal or a pelvi-rectal abscess having burst both towards the bowel and towards the skin. There are usually two or more external openings situated within an inch or an inch and a half of the anus. The internal opening, which is almost always single, is most commonly found exactly opposite the space be- tween the external and internal sphincters (Fig. 117a). Some- times, however, the pus burrows upwards under the mucous membrane and opens at a higher level (Fig. 1176). The track of the fistula is irregular and tortuous, with one or more dilata- tions in its course. On rectal examination it is recognised by