685 PHIMOSIS. THE PENIS. Surgical Anatomy.—The penis is composed of the two corpora cavernosa, which lie towards the dorsum, and the corpus spongiosum, which occupies the groove on the ventral aspect of tire corpora cavernosa, and is traversed by the urethra. These different elements are enclosed by a fibrous sheath. The conical end of the penis—the expanded anterior end of the corpus spongiosum—is known as the glans, and the redundant fold of skin which covers it as the prepuce. The lymphatics of the external genitals drain chiefly into the group of inguinal glands which run parallel with Poupart’s ligament. Malformations—Phimosis.—The most common malforma- tion of the penis is phimosis, a condition in which the prepuce, owing to the small size of its orifice, cannot be retracted over the glans. Phimosis may be congenital or acquired. In congenital phimosis, the prepuce, in addition to having an unduly small orifice, is usually unnaturally long and pointed, and the slight adhesions which, at birth, normally exist between the prepuce and the glans persist to a greater or less extent. Sometimes the prepuce is shorter than normal and is tightly stretched over the glans, to which it is usually intimately adherent. In the sulcus round the corona there is an accumu- lation of inspissated smegma which forms a white putty-like mass, or may be moulded into small rounded concretions. During childhood the main trouble caused by phimosis is interference with micturition. When the prepuce is long and not adherent, and its orifice is smaller than the urinary meatus, during micturition the urine collects in the preputial pouch and distends it. Dilatation of the urethra and bladder, and even of the ureters and renal pelvis, is said to have resulted from the backward pressure in extreme cases. Nocturnal incon- tinence is sometimes attributable to phimosis, particularly when the prepuce is adherent to the glans. Inflammation of the sac of the prepuce—balanitis—is a frequent complication, and the itching and pain which result cause the child to rub and pull the penis, and the habit of masturbation may be thus acquired. The constant straining during micturition tends to the production of inguinal hernia or of prolapsus ani. Convulsions, epilepsy, paraplegia, and numerous other nerve disturbances have been rightly or wrongly attributed to phimosis, and in some cases these have disappeared after circumcision. In adult life, the existence of phimosis renders the patient specially liable to acquire venereal disease if exposed to infection, the preputial pouch forming a favourable site for the lodgment