100 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. the kyphotic attitude, and the deformity leads to embarrassment of respiration. The spinal nerves are liable to be pressed upon as they pass through the intervertebral foramina, and the patient complains of severe pain in the back and shooting pains along the course of the nerves. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for similar conditions in other joints, but in most cases the relief is but temporary. Coccygodynia is the name applied to a condition in which the patient experiences severe pain in the region of the coccyx on sitting or walking, and during the movement of the bowels. The pathology is uncertain. The affection is almost entirely confined to females, and the patients are usually of a neurotic type. In some cases the pain is attributable to fracture of the coccyx, or to dislocation of the sacro-coccygeal joint, occurring during labour or from a direct kick or blow. In other cases it appears to be neuralgic in character, and is referable to the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves, or to the terminal branches of the sacral plexus distributed in this region. On rectal ex- amination the coccyx is sometimes found to be less movable than normal, and unduly arched forward, and it is exceedingly tender. When medicinal treatment fails to give relief the coccyx may be excised. Tumours of the Spinal Cord and Membranes.—Within recent years numerous operations have been carried out with varying success for the removal of tumours within the spinal canal. Such growths may occur in the substance of the cord, in the membranes, or in the tissues between the membranes and the bones. Tumours of the substance of the cord are rare, and are seldom amenable to surgical treatment. Meningeal and extra-meningeal tumours are more common, the varieties met with being sarcoma, lipoma and other innocent tumours, tuberculous nodules, syphilitic gummata, and hydatid cysts. The tumour may press on the nerve-roots, on one half of the cord, or on the whole thickness of the cord, and the symptoms vary accordingly. Pressure on the nerve-roots gives rise to pain, which, according to the seat of the tumour, is of the nature of girdle-pain, or of neuralgic pains shooting along the main nerve trunks of the upper or lower limbs. As the cord becomes pressed upon, there is first motor paresis, followed by complete paralysis, and later by contractures in the paralysed muscles (spastic 'paraplegia). Loss of sensation follows - the motor paralysis. When only one lateral half of the cord is pressed upon, the motor paralysis is on the same side as the tumour, and the loss of sensation on the opposite side.