369 INGUINAL HERNIA. cele, it is to be distinguished from an undescended testis, an encysted hydrocele of the cord, enlarged lymphatic glands, the softer forms of connective-tissue tumours, and a chronic abscess. When the hernia has emerged from the external ring, it is to be differentiated from a femoral hernia. When it has descended into the scrotum, it is to be diagnosed from varicocele, hydrocele, luematocele, and pathological enlargements of the testicle. In the female an acquired inguinal hernia escapes from the external abdominal ring and enters the labium, having the same relations to the round ligament of the uterus as to the spermatic cord in the male. Labial hernia is to be differentiated from hydrocele of the canal of Nuck, labial cysts, abscesses, and tumours. Inguinal Hernia depending upon Congenital Anomalies in the Processus Vaginalis.—As the testis descends into the scrotum in the course of normal development it is accompanied by a pouoh of peritoneum called the processus vaginalis, the lowest portion of which becomes the tunica vaginalis, while the upper portion becomes obliterated at or before birth. Should the processus vaginalis remain patent throughout, it forms a ready-made hernial sac into which the abdominal contents may descend, and in the sac the contents of the hernia are in contact with the testis and entirely surround it. This is known as a congenital hernia. Such a hernia frequently appears quite suddenly, the condition of the sac allowing the contents to pass at once into the scrotum. Congenital hernia is more common on the right side, because the right testis descends later than the left. In young adults it not infrequently becomes strangulated at its first emergence, and when strangulated is more difficult to reduce than the acquired variety. Constrictions, the result of attempted closure at certain points, may give rise to an hour-glass sac. The constituents of the cord are found on the posterior aspect of the patent processus, and are more adherent to it than to the sac of an acquired hernia. It is rarely possible by external examination alone to differentiate between an acquired and a congenital scrotal hernia. Hernia into the Funicular Process.—When the processus vaginalis has become shut off at the upper end of the testicle and remains open above, an abdominal viscus may descend into the unobliterated portion, constituting a “hernia into the funicular process.” It resembles the congenital hernia, but more often appears at a later period of life; the testis is below the fundus of the sac, quite separate and distinct from it; the hernia is seldom so large, and is cylindrical rather than globular VOL. II—24