461 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. substance, it is incised and emptied ; the cyst wall can frequently be shelled out entire. If the fluid contents are aseptic, the cavity may be closed again by means of sutures; if they are purulent, it must be drained. Cure of thick-walled cysts by means of drainage is very tedious. Cysts bulging the thoracic parietes and projecting upwards towards the lung should be dealt with by the trans-pleura! route. Syphilitic Gummata.—A solitary gumma, especially if pedun- culated, may simulate a new growth so closely that such a swelling has been removed by operation, and its true nature only discovered on subsequent examination. Gummata have also been removed deliberately when iodides have failed to bring about their disappearance. Tumours.—Innocent tumours, such as adenoma and angioma, are very rare. If solitary and well encapsulated, they lend themselves to removal by operation. Primary cancer and sarcoma of the liver can only be diagnosed with certainty after making an exploratory incision, and are only amenable to interference if discovered at an early stage, and if definitely circumscribed and free from secondary nodules or infection of the glands in the portal fissure. Cases suitable for radical operation are extremely rare. For the successful removed of hepatic tumours, it is essential that they should be growing from an easily accessible part of the liver. The presence of a pedicle and the absence of adhesions to surrounding structures are favouring conditions. The pedicle may be controlled by an elastic ligature. The liver tissue is divided with the knife or Paquelin cautery, and the larger blood-vessels secured by ligatures. The wound in the liver is closed with catgut sutures ; when this is not possible or does not arrest the bleeding it is packed with gauze, the end of which is brought out through the wound in the abdominal wall. The dressings may be stained with bile for a few days after the operation. Acquired Deformities and Displacements of the Liver.— The deformity of the liver due to tight-lacing consists in a portion of the liver being segmented off from the rest of the organ, to which it remains connected by a bridge of variable thickness. The constricted lobe acquires a mobility independent of the organ as a whole, and appears to be separate from it; it also becomes thickened, and the lower margin becomes rounded off; hence it may closely simulate a floating kidney. For examination the patient should be placed on her left side; the liver lobe sinks towards the middle line, and the fingers may then pass between it and the kidney. The deformity is rarely attended