112 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. general debility. The weak muscles, ligaments and bones are unable to support the weight of the body, and when the child is carried in the sitting posture, or attempts to sit or stand, the spine arches backwards, usually in the dorso-lumbar region at first, and later throughout its whole length. In most cases the deformity disappears as the child grows older and gains strength, but in some it is followed by scoliosis. Treatment is carried out on the same lines as for infantile scoliosis. In adolescents also the development of kyphosis is generally due to an enfeebled condition of the muscles of the back. The curve is usually first observed in the cervico-dorsal region, the patient becoming “round-shouldered.” This deformity is often determined in rapidly-growing girls by their assuming a stooping position for prolonged periods; for example, in sewing, writing, or piano-playing. In those who are myopic the necessity of bending over their work increases the tendency to kyphosis. The treatment consists in removing the causes of the condition, and in employing exercises, massage, and tonic treatment on the same lines as for scoliosis. In adults who follow occupations which involve continuous stooping, such as tailors, cobblers, or porters, persistent bending of the back may result. Certain diseases, such as arthritis de- formans, osteitis deformans, and acromegaly, are often associated with kyphosis. These are included under the term spondylitis deformans. Lordosis.—An exaggeration of the normal forward curvature of the lumbar spine sometimes occurs in street hawkers and others who habitually carry weights suspended in front of them. In very obese persons, in those who suffer from large abdominal or pelvic tumours, such as uterine fibroids, and in pregnant women, a more or less marked degree of lordosis is often produced. In another group of cases lordosis is compensatory to the flexion of the hip and tilting of the pelvis which accompany tuberculous disease of the liip-joint, congenital dislocation (Fig. 237, vol. i.), Charcot’s disease of the hip (Fig. 229, vol. i.), or ankylosis of the joint in the flexed position