HERNIA OF CAECUM. 385 The majority of the recorded cases have been recognised only after the onset of strangulation, and after the abdomen has been opened for symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. A loop of small intestine is then discovered engaged in the obturator opening. As a rule there is little or no swelling in Scarpa’s triangle, although in some cases a fulness may be found below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament somewhat resembling a femoral protrusion. It is most readily felt from the inner side of the thigh behind the origin of the adductor longus, when the limb is flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards. The inner aspect of the obturator aperture should be explored by the finger intro- duced into the rectum or vagina. Disordered sensation, in the form of pain and numbness along the course of the obturator nerve, is met with in about one-half of the cases. If the condition is recognised apart from strangulation, it should be treated by operation. The thigh is abducted, and an incision is made below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament. The interval between the pectineus and adductor longus muscles is opened up, or the pectineus may be divided. The sac and the structures in relation to it must be thoroughly exposed before proceeding to the radical cure. When strangulation has occurred a similar operation may be performed, or the abdomen may be opened in the middle or in the semi-lunar line, and the strangulated intestine released from the abdominal aspect of the obturator foramen. If the ring requires division, it should be incised in a direction downwards and inwards to avoid injuring the obturator artery. Great care must be taken to avoid infecting the peritoneal cavity in cases in which the bowel has become gangrenous. Diaphragmatic hernia is described at page 420. Hernia of Individual Viscera.—Hernia of the Caecum and Appendix.—The caecum and appendix are most frequently met with in acquired scrotal herniae of the right side, but cases are recorded in which they have been found in left-sided herniae. The peritoneal relationships of the caecum within the hernia are the same as those which obtained within the abdomen. In the great majority of cases the caecum and commencement of the ascending colon are entirely invested with peritoneum, and there is then a complete sac. In exceptional cases the posterior surface of these viscera is uncovered with peritoneum; the bowel is then adherent to the posterior wall of the sac; the hernia, under these circumstances, is usually irreducible, arid is best treated by operation. VOL. II—25