AN AESTHETICS. 696 of the anaesthetic presents some difficulty, but, generally, chloroform or CE, mixture answers best. In patients suffering from phthisis the CE. mixture is to be preferred, as either chloroform or ether alone is not well borne. In the presence of bronchitis, chloroform is best given alone. The widely spread idea that ether is frequently followed by bronchitis, even when skilfully administered to healthy persons, is, in our opinion, a mistaken one. Eat, short-necked patients do best with a mixture of chloro- form and ether. Anaesthesia should be induced with CE. mixture and maintained with chloroform in intra-cranial operations, and in those within the mouth and pharynx. For operations on the rectum and genito-urinary organs, amputations, and excision of joints, ether may be used with advantage. For operations on the abdomen most surgeons prefer chloroform, but where the operation is a prolonged one, and likely to be followed by shock, ether may be substituted. As regards position, if the operation necessitates that the patient’s head and shoulders be raised to any extent, chloroform should not be given under any circumstances. It is extremely difficult to administer ether if the patient is to lie on his face. The following articles should be in readiness before under- taking any anaesthesia A four-ounce bottle of chloroform; a six-ounce bottle of ether; a napkin, or Schimmelbusch mask covered with two layers of lint; a wooden wedge for forcing open the jaws; a strong gag, such as Mason’s or Fergusson’s; two hypodermic syringes; a 1 per cent, solution of strychnin; a few ounces of brandy ; a pair of tongue forceps; a rough towel; a small basin; some form of ether inhaler; and a tracheotomy tube and the instruments necessary for performing tracheotomy. Chloroform. The anaesthetic properties of chloroform were discovered by James Young Simpson in 1847. Chloroform can be prepared from pure ethyl alcohol or from methyl alcohol. Some authori- ties consider that methyl chloroform is unsuitable for anaesthetic purposes, but Ogston and others, with Avhom we agree, consider it to be as good in every way as chloroform made from ethyl alcohol. Administration.—Chloroform may be administered by means of a Schimmelbusch mask, or with a napkin or towel folded like a ridge tile. The lint on the mask should be put on with the