54 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. When the extruded portion of brain matter is small, it pulsates, but as it increases in size and is pressed upon by the edges of the opening through which it escapes, the pulsation ceases, and the herniated portion may become strangulated and slough. In cases of compound fracture, and in other conditions associated with necrosis of bone, masses of redundant granulation tissue growing from the soft parts may simulate a hernia cerebri. The treatment consists in removing, when possible, the cause of the increased intra-cranial tension. When this is of such a nature that it cannot be removed, steps must be taken to prevent the onset of meningitis, which, if it occur, is usually fatal. When the hernia is soft and vascular, the application of a small ice-bag is sometimes useful in reducing its size. Pressure over the hernia, with the object of returning it to the skull, is to be avoided, as this increases the intra-cranial tension, and induces headache, giddiness, and slowing of the pulse. When the original opening in the skull is too small to admit of the escape of an amount of brain matter sufficient to reduce the tension, it may be enlarged with rongeur forceps. The herniated portion should not be cut away unless it is sloughing, or has become pedunculated. After the hernia has disappeared and the wound is aseptic, Thiersch-grafting, the transplantation of bone, or the insertion of a celluloid or metal plate, may be employed to cover the gap in the skull. Cephaloceles. The term cephalocele is applied to a protrusion of a portion of the cranial contents through a congenital deficiency in the bones of the skull. This malformation is believed to be due to an irregularity in development, whereby a portion of the primary cerebral vesicle remains outside the mesoblastic layer of the embryo. It is usually associated with adhesion of the mem- branes in the region of the fourth ventricle and with internal hydrocephalus. In many cases the condition is quite incom- patible with life. Cephaloceles are covered by the scalp, and are most commonly met with in the occipital region and at the root of the nose; less frequently at the; anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and in the line of the sagittal suture. Very rarely they occur at the base of the skull and project into the pharynx, the mouth, or the nose, where they are liable to be mistaken for polypi. Cephaloceles vary greatly in size, some