442 THE INTESTINES. cut or circuit, and being the simpler procedure it is to be pre- ferred in weakly patients. The formation of an artificial anus is indicated when the cancer is too low down in the sigmoid to allow of either of the above procedures, or when there is complete obstruction of the bowels. If practicable a curative operation may be had recourse to when the patient has got over the obstruction, and the intestine is in a condition to favour surgical measures. In the presence of actual obstruction relief must be given by opening the bowel above the block without delay. As it is seldom possible to be certain of the site of the obstruction or of its nature, it is usually advisable to open the abdomen to the right of the middle line at the level of the umbilicus. If the ceecum is found distended, there is reasonable certainty that the stricture is below this, and the condition of the transverse colon is investigated. If distended it is brought out into the wound, and an artificial anus is established. If the caecum is empty, the obstruction is probably situated in the lesser bowel, and it will be possible from the same wound to bring out and open the lowest distended coil. In conditions of great urgency, when the above exploration is inadmissible, the incision is made in the right iliac fossa, and the caecum, if distended, is opened straight away. When the obstruction is tided over, and the parts have returned to a normal state, the removal of the cancerous segment of the bowel may be undertaken under more favourable auspices. Sarcoma of the bowel is a rare affection. It is most fre- quently situated in the lower ileum, and usually assumes the form of a diffuse infiltration of the coats of the intestine, con- verting the bowel into a rigid tube. If the lumen is narrowed, the clinical features are the same as in innocent stricture of the ileum, only the development and progress of the disease are more rapid. If the lumen is not encroached upon, the symptoms are those of an abdominal tumour. Treatment is more successful in the former variety, as it is more likely to be subjected to operation at an early stage. Removal is carried out as in cancer. We have observed a case in which the patient was quite well three years after the removal of a sarcoma of the ileum. Pressure by Tumours external to the Bowel.—Obstruction is most likely to result from the pressure of large tumours of the uterus, ovary, kidney, mesentery, or omentum. The rectum is the segment of bowel most likely to be pressed upon. The onset of obstruction may be acute from a sudden change in the position of the tumour, or from kinking or strangulation of