HYDROCELE. 681 gives an appearance which simulates a hernia. Sometimes a marked constriction exists about the middle of the sac, dividing it into two compartments—bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. As a result of adhesions the cavity may be multilocular. Diagiiosis.—A careful analysis of the signs and symptoms will usually enable an ordinary hydrocele to be diagnosed from a scrotal hernia, a tumour of the testis or epididymis, a hamiatocele, or from other forms of hydrocele. It is to be borne in mind that hydrocele may be complicated by hernia, and that more than one form of hydrocele may coexist. Treatment.—As spontaneous cure seldom occurs in adults, and as the swelling by its size, weight, and unsightliness is a source of annoyance to the patient, an attempt should be made to cure the condition. Tapping.—Simple tapping of a hydrocele is seldom curative in adults, although sometimes successful in children. The skin of the scrotum having been carefully purified, the patient is seated on the edge of a chair, and the surgeon grasps the swelling in such a way as to render the front of the hydrocele prominent and tense. A fine trocar and cannula is then thrust in a back- ward and upward direction into the swelling a little below its middle. Care is taken to avoid injuring the testis or any of the larger veins of the scrotum. The trocar is now withdrawn and the cannula pushed well into the cavity, and pressure is kept up till all the fluid has escaped, after which the cannula is quickly withdrawn. The puncture is sealed with collodion, a pad of wool applied over the scrotum, and pressure exerted by an ordinary or a suspensory bandage. The patient should rest for some hours after the tapping. Injection.— The object in the injection method of treatment is to produce an irritation of the tunica vaginalis which will result in the formation of adhesions between its two layers, and so obliterate the sac. The fluid most commonly employed is the Edinburgh tincture of iodine, which is twice as strong as the pharmacopceial tincture. As the injection is painful, it is well, after having emptied the sac, to inject into it about two drams of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain or eucain. This is brought into contact with the whole of the inner surface of the sac by shaking the scrotum, and the excess allowed to escape, and after it has had time to act, from two to four drams of the iodine are injected and similarly distributed. As the cannula is withdrawn the tissues around it should be firmly grasped to prevent the iodine escaping into the connective tissue planes of the scrotum. The patient is confined to bed, with the