THE TESTIS AND EPIDIDYMIS. 653 Tumours, such as lipoma, fibroma, angioma, and sarcoma are so rare in the scrotum that they need only be mentioned. Sebaceous cysts are frequently met with. They are usually near the raphe, are multiple, and tend to undergo calcification. Dermoid cysts have also been met with in the raphe. Epithelioma is induced by the prolonged irritation of such substances as coal-tar, paraffin, or soot. At one time the disease was comparatively common among chimney sweepers in England, and was known as “ chimney sweep’s cancer,” but improved methods of cleaning chimneys and greater attention to personal cleanliness have rendered it comparatively rare. In the paraffin shale districts of Scotland the condition is frequently met with as a sequel to paraffin ecz and is known as “ paraffin cancer ” ( 150). It may begin as a scaly pat< wart, or a horny excrescence on the sk less frequently as a cauliflower- papilloma. The progress of the dis< is very slow, and the tumour i last tor several years before ulcerai takes place. In course of time it gra ally assumes the characters of an ordinary epithelioma. The inguinal glands are not implicated till late in the disease. The treatment consists in excising the growth and removing the glands in the groin. The Testis and Epididymis. Surgical Anatomy.—The secretory portion of the testis consists of a niass of convoluted seminiferous tubules held together by a quantity of loose connective tissue. The whole gland is enclosed in a firm fibrous capsule the tunica albuginea—which is specially thick and strong at the posterior part, forming there the body of Highmore, from which numeious septa radiate to divide the gland into a series of compartments, the spermatozoa, which are formed from the epithelium lining the seminiferous tubules, leave the testis by the vasa etferentia and enter the epididymis. This structure is composed of a highly convoluted tube the coils of which are bound together by dense connective tissue. It lies on the posterior aspect of the body of the testis, and is divisible into thiee portions : an upper broad, rounded portion—the globus major oi head ; a narrower, intermediate portion—the body; and a lower, pointed portion—the globus minor or tail. The vas deferens or excretory duct of the testis passes from the globus mmoi along the back ol the testis and to the inner side of the epididymis.