THE BREAST. 296 however, it appears to be associated with the presence in the breast of an area of chronic mastitis, a small cyst, or a sub- cutaneous neuro-fibroma. When any such definite cause is discovered, it should be removed, by operation if necessary. When no local abnormality is present, the patient should be reassured that the condition is not cancerous—a point on which she is usually extremely anxious—and the general health should be improved by tonics and change of air and scene. Any pelvic disorder which may be present must also be corrected. Locally, a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage should be applied to prevent the patient handling the breast. Cysts. Multiple cystic disease, which is so often associated with chronic lobular mastitis, and cystic degeneration of new growths are described elsewhere. Of the cysts which form apart from these conditions, the most important are galactoceles, involution cysts, and hydatid cysts. A galactocele is a retention cyst formed by dilatation of one of the main ducts or lacteal sinuses, which has become occluded by cicatricial contraction in or around its walls. The contents consist of the constituents of milk variously altered, and may be fluid or semi-solid. The cyst, which is usually single, forms near the areola somewhat rapidly, usually during lactation or pregnancy, and increases rapidly, forming a smooth, rounded or oval swelling, which is freely movable, and varies in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange. The consistence of the swelling varies with the contents, but it is usually soft and elastic. When lactation ceases the swelling may disappear, but is liable to reform if the breast again becomes active. There is no retraction of the nipple, the axillary glands are not enlarged, and as a rule there is no pain. During pregnancy or lactation it is not necessary to interfere with these cysts unless they are increasing rapidly and causing discomfort. Under these conditions the child should be weaned and the secretion of milk arrested. The cyst may then either be incised and drained, or excised. Involution Cysts.—During the normal process of involution which occurs at the menopause, small cysts frequently develop as a result of obstruction of minute ducts or acini. They contain a clear, serous fluid or a dark brown, mucoid substance, and are known as “ involution cysts.” It is probable that in most cases