TUMOURS AND CYSTS. 579 upper pole, especially in stoutly built men with rigid parietes, are only palpable at an advanced stage. When present, the tumour is irregularly ovoid, firm or hard, with a smooth or bossy surface. The diagnosis may be aided in the early stages by the use of the cystoscope and the ureteral catheter. The urine thus obtained from the affected kidney is less concentrated than normal, and contains albumin. In a certain proportion of cases there is a recent varicocele on the same side. Prognosis.—The most favourable cases are those in which haematuria occurs early, and draws attention to the condition so that the kidney can be removed while the growth is still localised in the central part of the organ. A palpable tumour which is fixed by adhesions, the presence of ansemia, and loss of flesh are unfavourable symptoms. In cases left to nature the patient may live for as long as five or even ten years (Guyon). Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is to be performed in selected cases, and the fatty capsule is removed along with the kidney. If adhesions are so great that it is only possible to shell out the organ from its capsule, the operation should be abandoned. Tumours of the renal pelvis and ureter form a group of which the villous papilloma is the best known representative. Haematuria is the chief symptom, but the growth may block the pelvic outlet and cause retention of urine and blood, and, in infected cases, of pus, whereby the kidney may become sufficiently enlarged to be recognised on bimanual examination. Fragments of the villous growth may be grafted on the mucous membrane of the ureter, and if sprouting from the lower open- ing of this tube, may be seen with the cystoscope. Fragments of villous growth and clumps of epithelial cells may be found in the urine. An exact diagnosis can rarely be made without an exploratory incision through the kidney into the pelvis; if a tumour is discovered nephrectomy should be performed, as it is never safe to regard such tumours as innocent. Solitary Cysts of the Kidney.—These arise in the cortex usually at one of the poles or in the perirenal cellular tissue, and become closely applied to the capsule of the organ. As the cyst enlarges it projects from the surface, and may attain enormous dimensions (Fig. 135). The cyst causes no symptoms, and is not recognised unless it is large enough to form a palpable tumour, and it is then liable to be mistaken for a hydronephrosis, or, if at the lower pole, for an ovarian tumour. The treat- ment is to remove the cyst by dissection, preserving the kidney.