361 STRANGULATED HERNIA. paper, and its colour changes to an ashen grey, yellow, or green. The fluid in the sac acquires a putrefactive, sometimes almost cadaveric odour, the result of bacterial decomposition. The organisms concerned-—the colon bacillus and less frequently staphylococci, streptococci, or pneumococci—are derived from the lumen of the bowel. The sites of gangrene are of great importance in regard to its treatment by operation. It may affect the entire loop involved in the sac or only its convexity, or it may be confined to the ring of bowel subjected to direct pressure at the neck of the sac in the situation of the constriction grooves. It is of great importance, therefore, in operating for strangulated hernia, after dividing the constriction, to pull down and examine the bowel from the neck of the sac. In exceptional cases the sac also may be the seat of gangrene. If the omentum alone is strangulated, it merely exhibits the effects of venous congestion and of haemorrhages into its substance, and such a degree of inflammation as may result in adhesions. If intestine is present as well as omentum, the latter may participate in the septic process, the bacterial infection being derived from the bowel. The changes in the bowel above and below the hernia closely resemble those which take place in other forms of intestinal ob- struction. The bowel above becomes distended with gas and fluid, its wall is the seat of minute haemorrhages, and the superficial layers of the mucous membrane are shed, giving rise to shallow ulcers. Bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel results in the formation of poisonous products, which are readily absorbed through the devitalised mucous membrane, giving rise to general intoxication which may prove fatal. The bowel below the hernia is usually contracted and empty. Natural Terminations.—The gangrenous bowel gives way, and the sac and its contents are converted into a foul-smelling, faecal abscess containing gas. The sac and its coverings slough as the abscess points and ruptures, and a faecal fistula results. More commonly the condition proves fatal from septic absorption before these changes have time to occur. • Clinical Features.—As the symptoms of strangulated hernia are essentially those of intestinal obstruction, they resemble very closely those of obstruction resulting from other causes. They vary according to the severity of strangulation and the nervous constitution of the patient. There is often a history of a previous threatening of strangulation which has been tided over. On the occurrence of strangulation the patient is often aware of