231 PARENCHYMATOUS GOITRE. aphonia from abductor paralysis. The presence of these symp- toms usually raises the suspicion of malignancy. Occasionally the oesophagus is pressed upon, and there is difficulty in swallow- ing. Among the less prominent symptoms are palpitation, sudden attacks of syncope, a feeling of fulness in the head, and giddiness. All these symptoms may suddenly become aggravated, and fatal dyspnoea may ensue from the occurrence of haemorrhage into the substance of the goitre or into a cyst, or from inflammation. In intra-thoracic goitre the tumour displaces the trachea and causes paroxysmal attacks of breathlessness which may be mis- taken for asthma, particularly as symptoms of bronchitis and emphysema are usually present at the same time. In some cases the patient can, by a violent expiratory effort, project the goitre upwards into the neck. When the goitre is fixed in the thorax, the clinical features are those of a mediastinal tumour with lateral displacement of the trachea, and engorgement of the great veins of the neck. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment consists in administer- ing internally such drugs as iodine, potassium iodide, or iron and arsenic, and the local inunction of blue ointment or yellow iodide of mercury ointment. The results of this treatment are not always satisfactory. Kocher has obtained better results by the administration of pure phosphorus. The evidence regarding the benefit derived from the internal administration of thyroid extract is conflicting. Operative treatment is only called for to relieve pressure symptoms, or with a view to preventing their occurrence in the case of rapidly-growing goitres. It is usually considered advis- able to operate if, on making firm pressure on the goitre from side to side, the patient becomes breathless (Kocher). It is seldom justifiable to operate merely for the removal of the dis- figurement caused by the swelling. The operation consists in excising that portion of the thyroid which is causing pressure symptoms—thyroidectomy. If the goitre is of moderate size, the transverse curved incision of Kocher, which affords very free access and leaves an almost imperceptible scar, is the best. It is carried over the most prominent part of the swelling, and is prolonged further upwards and backwards over the sterno-mastoid upon the side on which the disease is most marked. The skin, platysma, and deep fascia are divided, the vessels being secured and ligatured before being cut. The sterno-mastoid and sterno-laryngeal muscles thus exposed are hooked aside or divided. The necessity of dividing