415 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION—ILEUS. The clinical features and diagnosis have been already con- sidered with abdominal injuries in general. The treatment is operative in the great majority of cases. Small ruptures are closed by a double tier of sutures; in the case of an extensive rent it is safer to resect the portion of bowel involved. The possibility of a second rupture should be borne in mind, also the fact that in bullet wounds of the abdomen perforation of the bowel is usually multiple. Slight contusions may be left alone; if severe, the injured area should be invaginated by Lembert sutures, and a portion of omentum stitched over it, or, if the bowel appears likely to give way, the segment of intestine should be resected. In the rare cases in which the intestine is torn from its mesentery the separated portion of bowel should be resected. Ruptures or wounds of the mesentery may accom- pany lesions of the intestine, and should be dealt with at the same time. Subcutaneous injuries of the large intestine usually result from crushing forms of violence. In those parts of the colon covered by peritoneum the sequence of events is similar to that observed in lesions of the lesser bowel; extravasation may be delayed, however, and the occurrence of peritonitis thereby deferred, owing to the less active peristalsis and the more solid consistence of the contents. Rupture of the colon behind the peritoneum results in the gradual onset of cellulitis and abscess, which may rupture externally and be followed by faecal fistula, or the infection may spread to the peritoneum and cause peri- tonitis. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in the small intestine. Intestinal Obstkuction—Ileus. The clinical term “obstruction of the bowels” implies a com- bination of symptoms of which the most obvious are cessation of the passage of intestinal contents, abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, and distension of the abdomen. It is always a serious condition, and frequently endangers life. In acute cases the initial symptoms—pain, collapse, and vomiting—are due to the profound impression made upon the sensory nerves of the abdomen, and are those of abdominal shock, to which the term “peritonism” has been applied by Gubler. They are not peculiar to intestinal obstruction, but attend upon all acute abdominal affections. The later symptoms—collapse and failure of the circulation—are due not merely to occlusion of the lumen of the intestine, but also to the absorption of poisonous materials