TUMOURS. 223 In Ludwig’s angina the swelling may extend from the sub- maxillary region towards the back of the mouth, and the tongue may be swollen to such an extent as to be protruded from the mouth. Pressure on the important nerves traversing the neck may give rise to irritative or paralytic symptoms. The main vessels may become thrombosed or eroded—particularly when the cellulitis is associated with scarlet fever—and in the latter case copious haemorrhage may follow the incision of the abscess. There is always marked constitutional disturbance in the form of rigors, high temperature, and a small, rapid pulse. The prognosis is always grave, and death may result within a few days from general septic infection. Treatment.—In the earliest stages hot, antiseptic fomenta- tions should be applied, and antistreptococcic serum may be injected. If the process does not begin to abate within twenty- four hours, and if the swelling becomes brawny in character, incision is urgently called for. One or more incisions should be made through the deep fascia where the signs of inflammation are most intense, and the deeper planes of the neck should be opened up by blunt dissection. The wound is painted with pure carbolic acid, dusted with iodoform, and drained. Actinomycosis occasionally manifests itself in the neck as an acute phlegmonous inflammation which causes wide destruction of tissue. Boils and carbuncles frequently occur on the back of the neck where the skin is thick and coarse and is constantly rubbed by the collar. The affections of the cervical lymphatic glands have already been described. Tumotjks. Cystic Tumours.—A great variety of cystic tumours are met with in the neck. Branchial cysts are formed by the distension of an isolated and unobliterated portion of one of the embryonic branchial clefts. They usually form in connection with the third cleft, and are met with in the region of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, to which the wall of the cyst is almost always attached. Less frequently they take origin in the second cleft, and lie below the mastoid process, in which case the cyst is adherent either to the mastoid or to the styloid process. In some cases these cysts project towards the floor of the mouth. When near the cutan- eous surface they resemble dermoid cysts in being lined with squamous epithelium and filled with sebaceous material. When