47 CEREBRAL ABSCESS. quently associated with one another in various combinations. Thus we may have a localised meningitis spreading to the brain and setting up a cerebral abscess ; a sinus thrombosis giving rise to a purulent lepto-meningitis; or a cerebral abscess bursting into the subarachnoid space and producing meningitis. The symptoms of one condition blend with and obscure those of another, and thus lead to difficulties in diagnosis. Clinical Features of Diffuse Septic Meningitis. — The earliest and most prominent symptom is violent pain in the head, often refen’ed to the frontal region, or, in cases starting from middle ear disease, to the temporal region. When the membranes at the base are affected, retraction of the head and neck is common. The patient, especially if a child, is extremely irritable, all his sensations are hyperacute, and he periodically utters a peculiarly sharp, piercing cry. Vomiting of the cerebral type — that is, unattended with nausea, and not related to the taking of food, or to gastric dis- turbances—is common, and persists all through the disease. The bowels are usually constipated. The pulse is small and rapid. The temperature rises early,—usually without an ante- cedent rigor—and remains persistently elevated (102° to 105° F.). There may be erratic rigidity of the limbs, or clonic spasms. The third nerve is sometimes paralysed; the pupils are at first equally contracted, but later become dilated and fixed. There is often temporary squinting. The patient gradually becomes unconscious and dies within three or four days. Treatment.—As a rule little can be done directly for the meningitis. The treatment consists in removing the source of infection when this is possible. For example, when the condi- tion results from a sub-dural abscess which has formed in relation to a compound fracture, a septic sinus thrombosis, or an erosion of the tegmen tympani, attempts have been made by trephining to drain and purify the meningeal spaces, but without encouraging results. Clinical Features of Cerebral Abscess.—The clinical course of a cerebral abscess has been described by Mace wen as embracing three distinct stages : the initiatory stage, the stage of the fully- formed abscess, and the terminal stage. The initiatory stage, which may last for from twelve hours to two or three days, rarely comes under the observation of the surgeon. He is usually able, however, to elicit a history of the presence of one or other of the sources of infection already mentioned, and in the great majority of cases this is chronic purulent middle ear disease.