CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BREAST. 285 third, and fourth perforating branches of the internal mammary. The venous blood returns to the axillary, cephalic, and external jugular veins. The nerve-supply to the skin over the breast is derived from the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and the lateral and anterior cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The gland itself is supplied with sensation through the per- forating terminal branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostals. A knowledge of the lymphatic system of the breast is of great import- ance in relation to the question of the spread of cancer. The anastomosis between the different sets of lymphatic vessels in the breast being very free, malignant disease in any part of the mamma is readily disseminated throughout the gland and to surrounding structures. According to Stiles the cutaneous lymphatics anastomose with the trunks which accompany the main lactiferous ducts in a large lymphatic plexus under the areola—the subareolar plexus of Sappey. The lymphatics of the subcutaneous fat which overlies the mamma occupy for the most part the ligaments of Cooper, and receive lymph, on the one hand from the deeper layers of the true skin, and on the other from the lymphatics in the more superficial parts of the breast. Then again the lymphatics of the posterior part of the gland and of the pectoral fascia communicate with one another. Eventually the lymph passes by large efferent trunks through the deep fascia to the lymphatic glands, the most important of which are situated in the axilla. These glands are arranged in groups : (1) the pectoral group, lying under the edge of the pectoralis major in the line of the long thoracic artery ; (2) the axillary group, accompanying the axillary vessels ; (3) the subscapular group, lying far back in the axilla with the vessels of the same name ; (4) the infra-clavicular group, lying in relation to the costo-coracoid membrane ; and (5) the supra- clavicular group, lying above the clavicle. Some of the efferent lym- phatics from the inner and upper part of the breast pass through the chest wall and open into (6) the sternal glands lying alongside the internal mammary artery. Clinical Examination of the Breast. — To permit of a thorough examination of the breast, the patient should be seated on a chair with the whole thorax exposed. After inspecting the breasts, and noting any asymmetry or other abnormal appearance which may be present, the parts are examined by palpation, the surgeon standing either by the side of the patient or behind her. First the condition of the skin may be noted, to determine if there be any abnormal attachment to the breast, or to any tumour which may be present. Dimpling of the skin is in some cases visible to the eye, but in others can only be detected on an attempt being made to pinch up or to stretch the skin. The condition of the nipple must also be noted to see if it be unduly adherent to the breast or retracted. As the two nipples are often not equally prominent, inquiry should always be made of the patient as to the history and duration of any apparent retraction which may be observed. The breast should then be palpated, its size, disposition, and consistence being noted, first by grasping it between the fingers, and then by pressing firmly against it with the flat of the hand. Should any tumour be detected, its size, shape, and consistence must be determined, as well as its relation to the skin, the nipple, and the gland tissue. The arm should be abducted to a right angle in order to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch, and the mobility of the breast on the chest wall tested, by moving the gland first from side to side, and then