CALCULOUS ANURIA. 573 the obstruction is relieved and the renal secretion re-established, the patient becomes drowsy, with contracted pupils, and dies about the tenth or eleventh day. It is not usually difficult to differentiate calculous anuria from other forms of suppression, such as that due to bilateral nephritis, but it may be extremely difficult to determine which of the kidneys was last obstructed, and yet this is of great importance, as it is this kidney which is most likely to recover its functions if the obstruction be relieved. Most reliance is to be placed on the site of the recent colic, and on unilateral rigidity of the abdominal muscles with tenderness of the kidney on the same side. Treatment.—Palliative measures directed towards the elimina- tion of waste products by way of the bowels and skin cannot with safety be prolonged for more than forty-eight hours, because of the danger that the renal epithelium may not recover its functions, even although the obstruction be relieved. The shortest and simplest operation is to be preferred. The kidney last occluded must be laid freely open and lightly packed with gauze, so as to relieve the intra-renal tension; the obstructing stone, unless readily accessible, is left till the crisis has been tided over. If it is found that the exposed kidney is functionless, or is not the seat of obstruction, then the opposite kidney must be exposed and laid open, either at once or within the next twenty-four hours. Tuberculosis—Tuberculous Pyelonephritis—Renal Phthisis. Chronic caseating tuberculosis in the parenchyma of the kidney is a comparatively common disease. In the great majority of cases the bacilli reach the kidney by way of the blood-stream. Morbid Anatomy.—Although at first localised to particular parts of the organ, the disease becomes diffused by the confluence of areas of caseous infiltration, and these areas break down, forming cavities filled with cheesy debris, which subsequently perforate into the calyces and pelvis (Fig. 133). The mucous membrane of the pelvis and ureter becomes the seat of tuber- culous thickening and ulceration, and if the ureter be blocked, the pelvis and calyces become dilated, as in pyonephrosis. The organ is then greatly enlarged, presents as a fluctuating tumour with a bossy, hillocky surface, the projections corresponding to the individual abscess cavities, and yellow foci are visible on the surface. The ureter becomes unduly adherent to its surroundings,