CUT-THROAT. 221 wound is small, there may be a considerable degree of sub- cutaneous emphysema. Occasionally, but very rarely, the wound is made above the hyoid bone, and opens directly into the mouth. There may then be sharp hemorrhage from the base of the tongue or from the lingual and facial arteries or their branches in the submaxillary region. There may be asphyxia from the base of the tongue and the epiglottis falling back and obstructing the larynx. There is great difficulty in swallowing. The prognosis in cases of cut-throat depends very largely on the general condition of the patient. The majority of those who attempt to take their own lives are in a low state of health from alcoholic excess, mental worry, privation or other causes, and many succumb even when the wound in the neck is com- paratively slight. Shock, loss of blood, asphyxia from blood entering the air-passages, and oedema of the glottis are the most frequent causes of death soon after the injury. Septic cellulitis and septic pneumonia are later complications which may prove fatal. Treatment.—The first indication in a case of cut-throat is to arrest haemorrhage. This may be done by applying firm digital compression over the bleeding points. The clots are then removed and the bleeding points sought for and ligatured, the wound being enlarged if necessary to allow of the divided vessels being secured. If the food and air-passages are intact, it is usually advisable to close the wound after having thoroughly purified it and sutured any muscles which have been divided. Drainage should be provided for at the most dependent angle of the wound. When the epiglottis is cut across in wounds opening into the pharynx it should be united with a few fine silk sutures. The wall of the pharynx, and the muscles should then be sutured layer by layer and the skin wound closed and drained. When the air-passages are opened, it is usually advisable to perform tracheotomy, and pack round the tube with sponge or gauze to avoid the risk of oedema of the glottis and to prevent blood entering the lungs. The wound in the larynx or trachea may then be closed with fine silk stitches and the soft tissues brought together layer by layer. The wound should be drained. During the after-treatment the head should be flexed on the chest to take all tension off the stitches, and care must be taken that the patient does not interfere with the dressings. He must be kept under constant supervision lest he make a further