424 THE INTESTINES. covered by tracing any loop of collapsed bowel which is found, or by sweeping the fingers round the region of the navel, and the brim of the pelvis. If a band is found, it may be torn through or divided between ligatures. It must be borne in mind that more than one band may be present. A Meckel’s diverticulum or a vermiform appendix should be resected, and the exposed mucous membrane covered over by peritoneum. In the case of strangulation through an abnormal aperture the bowel must be withdrawn from the opening, and to allow of this the opening may require to be enlarged. If the loop of bowel involved in the strangulation is viable, the operation is completed by closing the abdomen. If the bowel is not viable, or is already dead, it must either be resected then and there, or brought outside the wound, opened, and drained, the resection being postponed for a few days until the conditions are more favourable. We have met with cases in which the amount of intestine involved in the strangulation was so great that the initial shock proved fatal within a few hours. Obstruction by Adhesions, Kinking, or Matting of the Bowel, or by Cicatricial Contraction of the Mesentery.— This group includes cases in which the obstruction results directly or indirectly from peritoneal adhesions due to antecedent inflammation or traumatism. The mere fixation of a segment of bowel by an adhesion to the abdominal wall interferes with the passage of its contents; if, in addition to being fixed, the bowel is also bent or kinked, it readily becomes occluded. The symptoms vary widely; they may be those of acute obstruction, such as result from strangulation by a band, or they may simulate the chronic and incomplete obstruction associated with stricture. The obstruction may involve either the small or the large intestine. Adhesions may contract and bring about com- pression of the gut, especially of any segment which is at the same time adherent to the parietes or to another viscus. In the absence of kinking the clinical features resemble those of stricture of the bowel. Matting by adhesions may affect only one loop, or several coils may be bound together into a confused mass. This is most often met with in cases of disease of the mesenteric glands or of tuberculous peritonitis. The symptoms may come on suddenly, but are usually gradual and progressive, or intermittent, culminating in complete stoppage. Sometimes the matted coils form a tumour - like swelling. Matted coils of bowel occupying the pouch of Douglas may be felt by the rectum. In this group may also be included cases in which the bowel