432 THE INTESTINES. invagination is dealt with on the same lines as in acute cases. After reduction a longitudinal tuck or fold may be made in the mesentery, or, in the ileo-cmcal variety, the vermiform appendix may be anchored by sutures to the parietal peritoneum (Ball), in order to prevent a recurrence of the invagination. In irre- ducible cases a typical resection of the bowel is performed. The results of operation are much better in chronic than in acute cases. Intussusception in the Adult.—Chronic intussusception of the colon occurring in association with a carcino- matous growth is the variety most frequently met with in adults, although cases of the acute variety occasionally occur. The new growth usually precedes the invagination, and is found at the apex of the intussusception. A similar form of intussusception may originate in relation to an innocent tumour of the bowel —benign polypus—of the nature of an ade- noma, fibroma, or fibro-myoma. Obstruction due to Impaction of Gall- Stones and other Foreign Bodies in the Lumen of the Bowel.—The most important form in this group is that known as gall- stone ileus. The gall-stone which is likely to cause intestinal obstruction is one which has been formed as a cast in the gall-bladder, and made its way into the bowel, not by the ducts, but through a fistulous channel formed by ulceration. The stone most frequently ulcerates into the duodenum, but the most common seat of impaction is the lower ileum. Larger stones may impact high up in the jejunum. A comparatively small stone (three- quarters of an inch in diameter) may block the bowel, assisted by spasmodic contraction of the circular muscular coat. In some cases the stone may have increased in size after entering the gut by the deposit on it of faecal matter. If the stone remain impacted, the mucous membrane is liable to ulcerate and thus favour the spread of infection to the peritoneum; perfora- tion is exceptional. Clinical Features.—Gall-stone ileus is met with chiefly in patients over fifty years of age. There is usually a history of symptoms referable to gall-stones, and there may also be the more recent history of symptoms referable to the passage of the Fig. 95.—Gall-stone Obstruction of Je- junum. The stone, the size of a pigeon’s egg, was firmly grasped by the wall of the bowel. (Dr. C. W. MacGiili- vray’s case.)