THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 120 After paring both edges in this way, interrupted sutures of silver wire, silk, or horse-hair are introduced. In the after-treatment steps should be taken to prevent vomiting, crying, or coughing. The child must be fed on fluids, carefully administered with a spoon. The mouth must be kept sweet by frequent sponging with a mild antiseptic, such as boro-glyceride, or spraying with peroxide of hydrogen. The sutures may generally be removed in about a fortnight. The raw surface left on each side along the inner margin of the alveolus speedily granulates, the vitality of the palate bone being maintained from its nasal aspect. An alternative and in many respects a more efficient method of closing the palatal cleft is that introduced by Davies-Colley and modified by Arbuthnot Lane. It consists in raising the soft parts from the palate and adjacent alveolus in the form of flaps, which are folded across the cleft in such a way that their raw surfaces are opposed to one another. The time of operating may also be altered with advantage; according to Lane the best time is the day after birth, or as soon after that as possible. Voice Training.—The treatment of cleft palate does not cease with a successful operation; the importance of voice training must be explained to the parents. Mechanical appliances, such as obturators or artificial vela, are only to be recommended in aggravated cases of cleft palate, or in cases in which operative treatment has failed. They should be in the form of plates of vulcanite or gold, fitted to the teeth and kept in position by suction. Other Congenital Deformities of the Face.—Macrostoma is an abnormal enlargement of the mouth in its transverse diameter, due to imperfect fusion of the maxillary and mandi- bular processes. Microstoma is due to excessive fusion of the maxillary and mandibular processes. In some cases the mouth is so small as only to admit a probe. Facial cleft is due to non-closure of the fissure between the nasal and maxillary processes. It passes from the lip through the cheek to the margin of the orbit. Mandibular cleft is due to non-union of the two lateral halves of the mandibular arch. Injuries of the Soft Parts of the Face.—Wounds on the face present the same general characters as wounds elsewhere. Punctured wounds may be complicated by perforation of the orbit or cranial cavity. When the maxillary sinus is injured, emphysema may result from escape of air into the cellular