URETHRITIS. 633 Foreign bodies, such as slate-pencils or hat-pins, are usually introduced through the meatus by the patient, and lodge in the anterior half of the penile urethra. The symptoms are painful micturition followed by haemorrhage and a purulent discharge. The same complications may ensue as in calculus. Smooth bodies, such as slate pencils, are removed in the same way as calculi, while sharp, pointed objects require manipulations appropriate to the conditions present in each case. The urethro- scope and the X-rays may be of service in this connection. Cutting methods are preferable to prolonged attempts to extract the body by forceps, because of the greater risk of damage to the urethra which these entail. Inflammations of the Urethra — Urethritis. — Since the demonstration of the specific organism of gonorrhoea by Neisser in 1879, the pathology of urethritis has been rescued from the confusion which existed prior to that date. The examination of stained films of the discharge from the urethra enables us, in the majority of instances, to determine whether the case is one of gonorrhoea or not. Urethritis of other than Gonorrhoeal Origin.—The healthy urethra does not readily lend itself to infection with ordinary pyogenic organisms. It may, for instance, transmit in the urine pus organisms derived from the kidney or bladder, over long periods without becoming infected. When subjected *o frequent catheterisation, when a catheter is tied in for a time, or when irritants are injected into its lumen, the urethra may become inflamed and discharge pus, but, when the traumatism ceases, the urethritis rapidly disappears without treatment. Contact with septic discharges from the vagina occasionally causes urethritis in the male, but this “spurious gonorrhoea,” as it has been called, appears very soon after exposure to infection, the discharge is a thin muco-pus, there is little inflammatory reaction or pain on micturition, and the urethritis disappears spontaneously within a week of its origin. In stained films of the discharge various organisms are found, but no gonococci. It was formerly believed that a fit of gout and certain alcoholic drinks and articles of diet might cause urethritis, but this only occurs if the patient is already the subject of a latent gonorrhoeal infection. Gonorrhoeal Urethritis - Gonorrhoea.—The organism con- cerned—the gonococcus of Neisser—is a diplococcus, the individual cells being kidney-shaped and facing each other by their concave surfaces. In a stained film of the urethral discharge the cocci are found in the interior of the pus cells, to