Dr PERFECTLY DESCENDED TESTIS. 057 cord can usually be felt lying to its outer side. In the pubic form, the testis lies under the skin of the dorsum of the penis in front of the 'pubic bone; in the crural form, in the fold between the scrotum and the groin close to the saphenous opening; and in the abdominal form, on the surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Clinical Features.—These various abnormalities are usually unilateral, and occur on the right side more frequently than on the left. The scrotum on the affected side is found to be empty and is usually smaller than normal (Fig. 151). The processus vaginalis is usually present in the scrotum although the testis has not descended, and it may be occupied by a hernia. In cases of imperfectly descended and of misplaced testis the gland can be recognised by palpation. It is usually smaller and softer than normal, and the testicular sensation is retained. In some cases the chief complaint is of neuralgic pain referred to the line of the cord. In the majority of cases the gland is functionless, its secreting elements not having developed. It has been shown experimentally by Griffiths, that the testes do not develop perfectly unless they descend into the scrotum—hence the importance of treating these conditions in early life. A number of cases are on record, however, in which the testes, although undescended, attained their full functional development, and the patient was able to procreate—a point of medico-legal importance. So long as one testis is fully developed and normally placed, the patient preserves his masculine char- acteristics and retains his sexual power, but when both glands are imperfectly developed, there is usually marked interference with the physical growth and mental vigour. The patient may acquire certain feminine peculiarities, such as absence of hair on the face, enlargement of the breasts, plumpness of the figure, and sometimes a thin contralto voice. In addition he is usually impotent as well as sterile. These changes are probably due to the want of the “ internal secretion ” of the testis, which is supposed to be essential to full and perfect development. Complications.—Hernia is the most common complication of an abnormally placed testis. It is estimated that in fully 50 per cent, of cases some form of congenital hernia coexists. The various forms of congenital hydrocele are also comparatively common. An abnormally situated testis may become acutely inflamed, for example, as a result of infection from the urethra in gonorrhoea, and in the case of a testis retained in the abdomen the inflammation may spread to the peritoneum. When acute VOL. II—42