VENTRAL HERNIA. 381 abdominal belt and subjecting it to operation. It must be pointed out in this connection, that patients suffering from irreducible umbilical hernia are not favourable subjects for operative interference; their corpulence and excessive weight are alone a source of difficulty both at the operation and in the after treatment, and in the case of large protrusions there may be no room in the abdomen for the contents of the hernia. Any slight error in technique is apt to be followed by cellulitis and other septic complications. Operation.—In large herniae the tumour is outlined by two horizontal elliptical incisions. The sac is exposed and opened, not over its convexity where the coverings are thinnest and adhesions are most likely to be met with, but close to the margin of the aperture in the abdominal wall. The omentum is unravelled, adhesions separated, and the protruded portions ligatured and re- moved. The intestine is then reduced and retained by a large pad of gauze. The wall of the sac is then dissected free and removed. The opening in the peritoneum is closed by sutures. In order satisfactorily to close the opening in the parietes the different layers of the abdominal wall should be stitched to each other in succession ; it is especially important to approximate the recti muscles and their sheaths. An abdominal belt should after- wards be worn to diminish the tendency to recurrence. Ventral Hernia.—Under the term ventral hernia are in- cluded all such protrusions through the anterior abdominal parietes as do not appear at the inguinal, femoral, or umbilical apertures. Several varieties are recognised. In young children divarication or separation of the recti muscles is sometimes met with above the umbilicus, so that on straining a cylindrical protrusion appears in the interval between the umbilicus and ensiform cartilage. The condition disappears spontaneously, and is of no clinical importance. In adults, and especially in multiparous women, the separa- tion of the recti usually occurs below the umbilicus, and a vertical swelling appears between the muscles on the least exertion. The fingers can readily be introduced between the recti, and the margins of these muscles can be distinctly felt. The condition is merely troublesome, inasmuch as a belt must be worn to support the abdominal wall. Where there is pain and inconvenience in spite of the belt, an operation should be performed similar to that described for umbilical hernia. Hernia in the linea alba, although it may occur below the umbilicus, is met with chiefly above this point, and is then known as an epir/astric hernia (Fig. 76). The linea alba above