THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 1560 elongated, sausage-shaped swelling develops in the line of the cord, and may extend from the scrotum to the iliac fossa. There is discoloration in the line of this swelling and in the surrounding parts. The vas cleferem may be ruptured by such external injuries as the passage of a wheel over the groin, or sudden and forcible abduction of the thighs. The injury is usually accompanied by extravasation of blood into the cord, and in some cases blood escapes by the urethra. It is usually followed by atrophy of the testis. Incised and lacerated wounds of the cord, including the vas, may be accidentally produced in the course of such operations as the radical cure of hernia or the excision of a hydrocele of the cord. They may also be inflicted in attempts at self- mutilation by lunatics. Severe haemorrhage occurs in incised wounds, but lacerated wounds do not bleed much. Atrophy of the testis usually ensues. Torsion of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord is liable to be suddenly twisted to such an extent that the vascular supply of the testis is interfered with. The causes of the torsion are obscure, but as the accident is most frequently met with in cases where the testis has not completely descended, and in which the epididymis and cord are included with the testis in the processus vaginalis, it is probable that these conditions, by increasing the mobility of the testis and its appendages, act as predisposing factors. The actual twisting is probably deter- mined by a sudden congestion of its numerous tortuous veins, resulting, for example, from some sudden jar or strain, or from spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle. In some cases it has followed a direct injury or an attempt to reduce a hernia by taxis. The degree of torsion varies from half a twist to a complete twist and a half, and its direction is usually from without inwards. The kinking of the vessels of the cord causes intense congestion of the testis, which becomes dark bluish-purple or black in colour, and assumes an appearance aptly compared to that of a ripe plum. The epididymis and cord are swollen and discoloured, and the processus vaginalis is filled with blood- stained serum. Clinical Features.—The accident is most common about the age of puberty, but has been met with in infants and in old men. Its occurrence is indicated by the sudden onset of pain and swelling in the testis, accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The abdomen may be rigid and slightly distended, and the