622 THE PROSTATE. posure to cold, and any excitement of the sexual functions. He should aim at emptying the bladder every three hours, and should take regular but moderate exercise. If the bladder is incapable of emptying itself, the urine should be drawn off once, twice, or thrice daily according to the amount of residual urine, and one of the occasions should be just before going to bed. If there is dribbling from overflow the catheter should be passed every four hours. If there is retention which does not readily yield to a hot bath, a catheter is passed, and if there has been difficulty in its introduction, it may be tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. In many cases the constant use of the catheter is indispens- able, and as the patient’s health is dependent upon it he is said to have entered upon “ catheter life.” Choice of Catheter.—A soft rubber catheter is the best ; when this fails, a coude or bi-coude of gum-elastic material is selected. The elbow-bend was introduced by Merrier, its object being to keep the point of the instrument in contact with the anterior wall of the urethra. It has superseded the gum-elastic catheter, which depended for its curvature on the withdrawal of the wire stylet. In the case of retention the surgeon may have to fall back on a metal instrument; this should be of size No. 10 English, and of the sharply-curved short beak introduced by Chiene, which acts like a coude, or of the wide-curved instrument known as the “prostatic catheter.” If a catheter is to be tied in, a soft rubber or gum-elastic instrument is to be preferred. Puncture of the bladder above the pubes may tide the patient over an attack of acute retention when it is impossible to pass an instrument; it may be repeated twice daily for several days. If the urine is septic, however, the bladder must be washed out through the cannula before it is withdrawn, to avoid the risk of infecting the pre-vesical cellular tissue. In cases of retention with septic urine, it is better to tie in a large catheter and connect it with a suction apparatus, washing out the bladder at intervals ; or if the introduction of a catheter is difficult, to open the bladder above the pubes, insert a drainage tube, and connect it with the suction apparatus. In patients who are unsuited for prostatectomy, the suprapubic opening may be kept open ; a full-sized rubber catheter, No. 16 or 18, is fixed in position and fitted with a stop-cock; the patient is able to go about, and may soon acquire a satisfactory continence (Annandale). The perineal route may be preferred for the per- manent opening (Reginald Harrison).