72 THE SPINE AND CORD. longitudinal or semilunar incision is made so as to expose the spinous processes of the vertebrae to be dealt with. The muscles, along with the periosteum, are separated from the spines and laminae. After the interspinous ligaments have been divided with scissors, the spines are snipped off at their bases with bone pliers. The ligamenta subfiava are then divided close to the bone and the laminae sawn across and levered out. The fatty tissue outside the dura is separated, and any veins which are torn are ligatured. If it is necessary to open the dura, it should be securely sutured again to prevent leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. As the clinical importance of a spinal injury depends almost entirely on the degree of damage done to the cord, we shall consider injuries of the cord before those of the vertebral column. They will be described under the headings : Concussion of the Cord; “ Railway Spine ”; Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage; Total Transverse Lesions ; and Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve- roots. Concussion of the Spinal Cord.—It is necessary to restrict this term to such injuries as implicate the cord alone, apart from lesions of the vertebrae, the spinal ligaments or membranes. In this limited sense concussion of the cord is extremely rare. The term concussion of the cord has only a clinical signifi- cance—its pathological equivalent is “ contusion of the cord.” It can no longer be believed that the symptoms are due to a molecular shaking of the cord or to mere shock. In all cases which have been thoroughly investigated, definite lesions, usually in the form of minute haemorrhages into the grey matter of the cord, or into the membranes, have been found (Koclier, Byrom Bramwell). These haemorrhages may be due to squeezing or tearing of the cord or the emerging nerve-roots by a partial and temporary displacement of a vertebra, or to violent distortion of the spine; or they may be produced by a disturbance of the cerebro-spinal fluid, in the same way as the corresponding lesions which accompany concussion of the brain. The condition is commonly met with in miners as a result of a fall of coal or stones striking them on the back. It is also liable to occur when a rider is thrown from his horse and lands on his back. The most constant symptoms are temporary retention of urine requiring the use of the catheter, and transient