307 CHAPTER XXII. THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Surgical anatomy—Injuries of the abdominal parietes : Contusions; Rupture of abdominal muscles—Injuries of the abdominal viscera : Traumatic rupture of hollow and of solid viscera—Wounds of the abdomen: Punctured and Gunshot wounds — Diseases of the abdominal wall: Abscess and Cellulitis ; Actinomycosis ; Tumours —Affections of the umbilicus : Persistence of the vitelline duct; Persistence of the urachus ; Urachal fistulas and cysts ; Inflammation ; Umbilical fistulai of other than congenital origin : biliary, urinary, faecal; Tumours. Surgical Anatomy.—Abdominal Parietes.—The superficial fascia contains a variable quantity of fat, on the amount of which chiefly depends the thickness of the belly wall in different individuals. The muscles are arranged in three groups—anterior, posterior, and lateral. The anterior group comprises the recti and the pyramidales muscles ; the recti are separated from one another in the middle line above the navel by a strong fibrous band—the linea alba—while below the navel they are practically in contact. The posterior group comprises the quadratus lumborum and erector spinas. The muscles of the lateral group are arranged in three layers—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis muscles—separated from one another by a small amount of loose areolar tissue. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles arise posteriorly by a tendon of origin called the lumbar fascia which is attached to the lumbar vertebrae ; this fascia splits to ensheath the erector spinae and quadratus lumborum. Anteriorly all three lateral muscles are inserted into a common tendon of insertion which splits to form a sheath for the rectus muscle. Beneath the muscles is a layer of fascia known as the transversalis fascia, which may be said to line the entire abdominal cavity. Between the transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum is a layer of loose areolar tissue known as the extra-peritoneal fat. The peritoneum lines the general cavity of the abdomen and pelvis, and is reflected from the parietes on to the viscera. The parietal and visceral layers are normally in contact, the space between them being only a potential one. The peritoneal cavity consists of two sacs, a greater and a lesser. The greater sac is that which is opened when the abdominal parietes are cut through in the operation of laparotomy. The lesser sac, or omental bursa of Continental writers, lies for the most