410 CHAPTER XXVII. THE INTESTINES. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Operations on the intestine —Injuries: Contusion, rupture, wound—Intestinal obstruction— Ileus : General facts; Pathology and morbid anatomy; General clinical features ; Acute obstruction ; Chronic obstruction; Chronic obstruction terminating acutely ; Differences between the features of obstruction in the small and large intestine—Conditions giving rise to obstruction—Particular forms of obstruction: Strangulated hernia ; Paternal hernia, varieties; Strangulation by bands and through abnormal apertures; Adhesions, kinking, and matting of the bowel, and cicatricial contraction of the mesentery ; Volvulus ; Intussuscep- tion ; Impaction of gall-stones and other foreign bodies in the lumen of the bowel; Stenosis of the bowel: stricture, malformations and tumours of the boivel; Pressure of tumours outside the bowel; Fcccal accumulation. Other affections of the intestines : Embolism and thrombosis of the mesenteric blood-vessels ; Perforation of typhoid ulcer; Dysentery ; Intractable colitis ; Tuberculosis; Actinomycosis; Intestinal fistula;; Tumours ; Enteroptosis. Surgical Anatomy.—When the abdominal walls are reflected, and the great omentum displaced upwards, the small intestine is seen to be arranged in a series of coils or loops ; the jejunal coils occupying the upper and left portion of the abdominal cavity, while the ileum lies below and to the right. Individual coils, however, are so liable to vary in position that the only certain means of identifying a particular part of the bowel is by tracing the intestine, either from the duodeno-jejunal junction above, or from the csecum below. There is an insensible transi- tion from jejunum to ileum, but if one of the upper coils of the jejunum be compared with one of the lower coils of ileum, the former is found to be larger in calibre, darker in colour, and its walls are thicker because of the greater size and number of the valvulse conniventes. In the lower part of the ileum the valvul?e conniventes are small and widely separated, but the Peyer’s patches are large and numerous. The duodenum is not visible from the front, being covered by the liver above and by the transverse colon below. Attention may be directed to certain common variations in the position of certain parts of the large intestine. The transverse colon, for example, may hang doivn for a variable distance in front of the small intestine, sometimes as a V-shaped loop with its apex reaching as low as the symphysis pubis. The sigmoid flexure—or, as it is now called, the pelvic colon—has a well-developed mesentery, and