20 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. “After a period varying from one to three weeks, the pulse improves in tone, the temperature of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. Irritability gives place to fatuity ; there is less manifestation of temper, but more weakness of mind. Recovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect. ...” The treatment consists in keeping the patient quiet, in a darkened room, on much the same lines as for concussion. Compression of the Brain.—This term is used clinically to describe the train of symptoms which follows a marked increase of the intra-cranial tension produced by such causes as haemor- rhage, oedema, the accumulation of inflammatory products, or the growth of tumours within the skull. Clinical Features.—The following description refers to cases of compression resulting from injury. In a majority of trau- matic cases the symptoms of cerebral compression supervene on those of concussion. In a certain proportion there is an interval, during which the patient regains complete consciousness; but in others the symptoms of concussion gradually and imperceptibly merge into those of compression. The rapidity of onset of the symptoms and the course and duration of the illness vary widely according to the nature and extent of the brain lesion. Death may occur in a few hours, or recovery may take place after the patient has been unconscious for several weeks. The first symptoms are of an irritative character—dull pain in the head, restlessness, and hypersensitiveness to sensory stimuli. The face is suffused, and the pupils at first are usually contracted. The temperature falls to 97°, or even to 95° F. Vomiting is not infrequent. As the pressure increases, paralytic symptoms ensue. The patient gradually loses consciousness, and passes into a condition of coma. The pulse becomes slow, full, and bounding; the respiration slow and deep, and eventually stertorous or snoring in character from paralysis of the soft palate. The lips and cheeks are puffed out from paralysis of the muscles of these parts. The temperature, which at first falls to 97° or even 95° F., in the course of three or four hours usually rises (100'5° or 102'5° F.) If the temperature reaches 104° F., or higher, the condition usually proves fatal. Sometimes it rises as high as 106° or 108° F.—cerebral hyperpyrexia. Retention of urine from paralysis of the bladder, and involuntary defecation from paralysis of the sphincter ani, are commonly present.