387 HERNIA OF BLADDER, protrusions. Three chief varieties are recognised according to the peritoneal relationships of the protruded portion of the bladder—(1) The extra-peritoneal form, in which the bladder lies wholly without the hernial sac; (2) The intra-peritoneal, in which the protruded portion of bladder is entirely covered by peritoneum and lies within the hernial sac; (3) The para- peritoneal, in which the inner wall of the hernial sac is partly represented by the peritoneum covering the postero-lateral aspect of the bladder, the rest of the bladder outside the abdomen having no peritoneal coating. The viscus, therefore, is not one of the contents of the sac, but merely projects into it. The third form is the most frequent. Hernia of the bladder is alleged to be acquired as the result of some obstruction to the outflow of urine, whereby the bladder becomes frequently distended and dilated, or even pouched. Minor varieties of the condition are sometimes produced by the surgeon during the operation, through exercising undue traction upon the sac. Few cases of hernia of the bladder have been diagnosed before operation. When, however, a large portion of the bladder is protruded, the symptoms are suggestive. The hernial tumour appears to contain fluid, and is subject to rapid and considerable variations in size as a result of micturition. The patient may micturate in two stages : first, emptying the normal intra-pelvic portion of the bladder; and then, after applying pressure over the hernia and causing the urine it contains to return within the pelvis, passing the residue, the hernial tumour at the same time diminishing in size. Conversely, the hernial sac may be distended by injecting fluid into the bladder. In the case of a small protrusion, however, especially when it is of the nature of a diverticulum communicating with the bladder by a small opening, these features may not be sufficiently marked to aid in the diagnosis. Before operation the condition is apt to be regarded as an irreducible omental hernia. The chief danger consists in the likelihood of the bladder being opened while operating for the radical cure of the hernia. The appearances met with in operating are an unusual amount of extra-peritoneal fat around the sac, and the presence in many cases of what appears to be a second sac to the inner side of the hernial sac proper. Treatment. — The hernia being irreducible, operative treat- ment is indicated. The details of the operation depend on the variety of hernia. If the bladder be accidentally Avounded in the course of operation, its Avail should be sutured, the organ