569 RENAL COLIC. brim of the pelvis, or at its lower end on rectal or vaginal examination. Even if the urine appears normal a careful microscopical and chemical examination should be made. Red blood corpuscles are to be found, especially after exertion, and more often in the evening than in the morning urine; they are often devoid of colouring matter, and may be so altered in shape that it is difficult to identify them. Marked hamiaturia is sometimes present, but is not characteristic of stone. So long as there is no infection there is a complete absence of leucocytes, and only a faint trace of albumin. The diagnosis, without the aid of the X-rays, is often extremely difficult. In cases attended with colic the first step is to ascertain that the colic proceeds from the kidney or ureter, and the second is to determine that it is due to stone. Differential Diagnosis.—Renal colic is to be diagnosed from biliary colic chiefly by the seat of the pain and tenderness ; from intestinal obstruction, by the seat of tenderness, and by the radiation of the pain to the thigh, buttock, testicle, or vagina; from pancreatic-stone colic by the presence of red blood corpuscles in the urine. Ureteral colic, when associated with tenderness over the brim of the pelvis, may simulate the pain of appendicitis, particularly if this is attended with inflammation of the peri- toneum over the bladder, and frequent and painful micturition. According to Israel 50 per cent, of ureteral stones may be pal- pated from the vagina or rectum. The inference that the colic is due to stone is arrived at mainly by excluding the other conditions which give rise to renal colic. Renal colic may be due to any condition which interferes with the escape of urine from the pelvis or ureter, such as kinking of the pedicle of a movable kidney, commencing hydronephrosis, or blocking of the ureter with clots as in new growths of the kidney, or with caseous debris as in tuberculous pyelitis. Colic may also be induced by anything which causes a sudden increase of pressure within the kidney, as acute con- gestion or inflammation, or haemorrhage into the parenchyma. It may also be due to abnormal conditions in the ureter, such as stricture, involvement in adhesions, or injury occurring in the course of pelvic operations. Great difficulty may arise in relation to certain forms of chronic nephritis attended with pain and hsematuria, and in cases in which, from the vagueness of the patient’s complaints, a diagnosis of lumbago and sciatica, chronic rheumatism, or nervous dyspepsia may be made. Statements by patients that they