52 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. spreads across the middle line to the sinus of the opposite side. The special symptoms—exophthalmos, (edema of the eyelids, and paralysis of the ocular nerves—are due to pressure on the structures entering the orbit. The lateral or sigmoid sinus, on account -of its proximity to the middle ear and mastoid air cells, is that most commonly affected, especially in young adults. With the onset of the phlebitis the discharge from the ear stops. There is severe pain in the ear and violent headache. The temperature rises, but shows marked remissions, and rigors are common. Vomiting is frequently present. Turgescence of the scalp veins draining into this sinus, and oedema over the mastoid, are occasionally observed, but are of little diagnostic value, as they accompany various other conditions. Not infrequently thrombo-phlebitis spreads to the internal jugular vein, which may then be felt as a firm, tender cord running down the neck. Three clinical types of sinus phlebitis are recognised— pulmonary, abdominal, and meningeal—but it is often im- possible to relegate a particular case to one or other of these groups. Many cases present symptoms characteristic of more than one of the types. In the 'pulmonary type evidence of septic infection of the lungs appears towards the end of the second week, in the form of dyspnoea, cough, and pain in the side, coarse, moist rales, and dark foetid sputum. Death usually takes place from gangrene of the lung. The brain functions may remain active and acute to the end. In the abdominal type the symptoms closely resemble those of typhoid fever, for which the condition may be mistaken. The absence of a rash and the co-existence of septic middle ear disease are important factors in diagnosis. When the disease is of the meningeal type, symptoms of general purulent lepto-meningitis assert themselves, and soon come to dominate the clinical picture. The mind is at first clear, but the patient is irritable, and later becomes comatose. The prognosis is always grave on account of the risk of general systemic infection. Treatment.—The primary focus of infection must first be. removed. This'usually involves clearing out the middle ear and mastoid process. The sigmoid sinus is then exposed either by extending the opening in the mastoid region backwards, or by making a second opening about three-quarters of an inch behind the external auditory meatus. Granulation tissue and pus are frequently found occupying the sigmoid groove and