DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. 94 are sometimes present from irritation or paralysis of the fibres of the cervical sympathetic which supply the dilator pupillse. Dorsal Region.—When the disease is confined to the dorsal region, stiffness of the back and boarding of the vertebral muscles are prominent features. On being asked to pick up an object from the floor, the patient reaches it by bending his knees and hips, while he keeps his back straight and rigid. He refuses to make any movement which involves jolting of the spine, such, for example, as jumping from a chair to the ground. Children often attempt to take the weight off the diseased vertebrae by placing the palms of the hands on the edge of a chair so that the weight is borne by the arms. Angular deformity is often well marked, and may implicate several vertebrae. In order to maintain the head erect, the spine above and below the seat of disease become unduly arched forward—compensatory lordosis. In advanced cases the ribs become approximated, and the lower end of the sternum is pro- jected forward. The antero-posterior diameter of the thorax is thus increased, while its vertical diameter is diminished. These changes, together with the telescoping of the vertebral bodies, lead to the deformity characteristic of the tuberculous hunchback (Fig. 16). The alterations in the shape of the chest may lead to functional disturbances of the heart and lungs. Dorsal Abscess.—When pus forms it may pass directly back- wards along the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves and come to the surface behind the transverse processes, or it may travel forward between the pleura and the ribs, and, passing along the course of the lateral cutaneous branches, of the intercostals, reach the skin opposite the middle of the rib. In the latter case the abscess is liable to be mistaken for one associated with tuberculous disease of the rib, particularly as the rib is usually found to be bare, in rare cases the pus opens into the pleura, constituting one form of empyema. When the disease is on the anterior surface of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, the pus may spread down through the pillars of the diaphragm and reach the sheath of the psoas muscle. Treatment.—In the early stages extension should be applied both to the head and to the lower extremities, with or without a double long splint. When the more acute symptoms subside, the patient is placed in a Phelp’s box or a double Thomas’s splint. Dorso-lumbar Region.—The symptoms are very similar to those of disease in the dorsal region. Children while standing often assume a characteristic attitude—the hips and knees are slightly flexed, and the hands grasp the thighs just above the