TUMOURS. 225 the thyroid, the larynx or the lymphatic glands, are not very common in the neck. Both varieties of lipoma are occasionally met with. The circumscribed form usually occurs over the nape of the neck or in the supra-clavicular region. It usually attains considerable size, and from its weight becomes pedunculated and hangs down over the patient’s back or shoulder (Fig. 53). The treatment consists in enucleating the tumour and removing an elliptical piece of the skin over it. The neck is one of the most common situations for diffuse lipomatosis, which usually begins over the nape and spreads more or less symmetrically till it completely surrounds the neck (Fig. 33, vol. i.). As the new-formed fat is not encapsulated, complete extirpation of the mass is always difficult, and may be attended with severe haemorrhage. Fibromata frequently grow from the ligamentum nucha?, from the periosteum covering the vertebral processes, and from other fibrous structures. They may attain considerable size. Extirpation is sometimes difficult on account of their deep attachments. Osseous tumours occasionally grow in connection with the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebrae. They are to be distinguished from cervical ribs. Sarcomata may develop from any of the fascial structures in the neck, or from the connective tissue surrounding the blood- vessels. They present the same characters as sarcomata in other parts of the body. On account of their deep attachments, there is great difficulty in removing these tumours complete]}, and when they are found to infiltrate the surrounding tissues the attempt should be abandoned. Primary carcinomata have been met with growing from accessory processes of thyroid tissue, and in connection with belated remnants of the branchial clefts—branchial carcinoma. The tumour is deeply placed under cover of the sterno-mastoid. It presents the same clinical characters as other forms of car- cinoma, and runs the same course, but shows a marked tendency to undergo cystic degeneration. It is seldom possible to remove it by operation. The commonest and most important tumours met with in the neck are those arising in connection with the lymphatic glands and the thyroid, and the various forms of aneurysm springing from the large vessels at the root of the neck. These conditions are described elsewhere. Cervical Ribs.—A supernumerary rib is sometimes developed VOL. II—15