SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. 165 The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are sclerosing glossitis, gummata, and gummatous ulcers. Sclerosing glossitis is the term applied by Fournier to a condition in which tuberous masses appear on the dorsal aspect of the tongue during the tertiary stage of syphilis. They tend to be oval in outline, are elevated above the level of the mucous membrane, and present a dull red mammillated or lobulated surface, comparable to the surface of a cirrhotic liver. They are firm, elastic and insensitive. There is no enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Gummata are usually situated on the dorsum of the tongue, and more often towards the centre than at the edges. They seldom implicate the floor of the mouth or the base of the tongue, so that the tongue can usually be protruded freely. They form indolent swellings which tend slowly to break down and ulcerate. So long as they remain unbroken they do not cause pain, and there is no enlargement of the adjacent lymphatic glands. Two forms are met with—the superficial, and the deep or parenchymatous. Superficial gummata are almost always multiple, and appear as small hard nodules under the mucous membrane of the tongue, varying in size from a pin’s head to a pea. The mucous membrane over them is redder than normal, and in the early stages retains its papillm, but later becomes smooth. They tend to break down early, forming extensive superficial ulcers. The deep or parenchymatous form may be single or multiple. It varies in size from a hazel-nut to a walnut, and feels like a hard body in the substance of the tongue. The mucous membrane over the swelling is of normal colour, but is usually devoid of papillae. The gumma may remain for months un- changed, or may approach the surface, soften, and break down, leaving a deep ragged ulcer. Syphilitic ulcers and fissures are nearly always preceded by gummata which have softened and broken down. The ulcers have seldom the typically rounded or serpiginous outline of gummatous ulcers on other parts of the body. The base is ragged and unhealthy, and on it a yellowish-grey slough re- sembling a piece of wash-leather may be seen. The edges are steep, ragged, and often undermined, and the surrounding parts thickened and indurated. The neighbouring glands are not usually enlarged. The ulcer is extremely painful when irritated by food, hot fluids, or spirits. If untreated, the sore may remain indolent and for months show no sign either of spreading or