310 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. force, and transmits the violence undiminished to the subjacent organs. If, on the other hand, the muscles are contracted, as for example, when the individual is prepared for a blow, the wall becomes rigid, and may itself suffer from the effects of the violence, while the subjacent organs escape. Contusions of the Abdominal Wall without Visceral Injury.—These result from various forms of violence, and range in severity from a slight bruise to extensive tearing of tissue. In the more severe forms an accumulation of blood may occur between the muscles or in the extra-peritoneal fat, and although this is usually reabsorbed, it may persist as a haunatoma. The clinical features are those common to bruises elsewhere, with, in addition, a variable amount of shock due to the impression made on the nerve plexuses within the abdomen. Chief interest attaches to the question whether or not the viscera have sustained injury, a point in diagnosis which will be considered presently. The treatment of a simple contusion consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed with the knees flexed over a pillow, and in the application of uniform pressure by means of cotton-wool and a bandage. Rupture of Abdominal Muscles.—The abdominal muscles, and especially the recti, may be ruptured from their sudden contraction, or as a result of violence applied to the abdomen provided they are contracted at the moment of impact. When the muscles are weakened by disease, as during convalescence from typhoid fever, they may rupture from comparatively slight violence or effort. Rupture of the rectus always occurs below the navel. The clinical features are those of ruptured muscle in general. The ends of the muscle may be approximated by flexing the trunk, the shoulders being raised on pillows and the thighs flexed on the abdomen; failing this, if the muscle is healthy, the ends may be exposed by operation and sutured. When the patient reassumes the erect posture, he should wear a bandage or belt to prevent the formation of a ventral hernia. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdominal Viscera.— Injury to the viscera most often results from violence inflicted with a blunt object applied at right angles to the abdominal wall, as by a kick, the passage of a wheel across the body, a crush between buffers, or a fall against a projecting object. The small intestine—and to a less extent the pancreas—is especially liable to suffer in such accidents through being nipped between the impinging object and the bodies of the vertebra?. Visceral injuries may also result from acute flexion of the trunk,