216 THE NECK. stands out prominently, and, on any attempt to straighten the head, can be felt as a firm, fibrous band. The skin of the affected side of the neck may be thrown into transverse folds. The patient is unable to correct the deformity, but it is usually possible to diminish it by manipulation. If the condition is not corrected early, all the soft structures on the affected side of the neck undergo orgauic shortening, with the result that the deformity is accentuated. In aggravated cases a lateral curvature, with the concavity towards the affected side, occurs in the cervical region, the vertebra; becoming wedge- shaped from side to side, and a compensatory curve may develop in the upper dorsal region. There is often a marked asymmetry of the head and face, the affected side being the smaller. The eye on this side lies on a lower level, and is more oblique than its neighbour, the cheek is fiattened, and the mouth is asymmetrical. Treatment.—When the condition is recognised early, it may be possible to correct the deformity by forcibly stretching the muscle under anaesthesia and fixing the neck in a rigid apparatus. Prolonged treatment by massage, exercises and electricity is necessary to prevent relapse. In the majority of cases the shortened structures must be divided. Subcutaneous tenotomy—at one time the favourite method of treatment—has almost entirely been replaced by the open operation, which enables the surgeon to divide thoroughly all the structures at fault, including the cervical fascia, and at the same time to avoid injuring other structures in the neck. A transverse incision is made over the lower third of the muscle, and each of the heads of origin is thoroughly and completely divided. Any shortened bands of fascia which stand out after division of the muscle are also freely divided. The wound is sutured, and the head fixed in a slightly over-corrected position, by means of an elastic bandage carried under the axillae and round the body, for a few days till the wound has healed. The patient is then encouraged to move the head freely. Massage, passive movements, douching and electricity must be employed for months after the operation to prevent relapse. Spasmodic wry-neck is the term applied to a condition in which clonic contractions of certain of the muscles of the neck produce convulsive jerkings of the head. The muscles most frequently at fault are the sterno-mastoid of one side, and the posterior rotators of the head of the opposite side. By these muscles the head is pulled into the position of ordinary permanent wry-neck, and is at the same time slightly retracted. In some