219 CUT-THROAT. ossification has taken place. These fractures may be single or multiple, and they usually result from a direct blow, from throttling, or from the passage of a wheel over the neck. The trachea may be lacerated, or even completely torn from the larynx, by the same forms of injury as produce fracture of the laryngeal cartilages. The clinical features common to all these injuries are swelling and discoloration, due to effusion of blood into the cellular tissue of the neck. If the mucous membrane is torn, air may escape into the tissues and produce emphysema. There is always more or less difficulty in breathing, which may amount to actual suffocation. This may come on immediately, or in the course of a few hours from oedema of the glottis. Haemorrhage may take place into the lungs and cause haemoptysis, or the blood may escape at once from the mouth. Swallowing is usually difficult and painful, especially in fracture of the hyoid bone. There is also pain on speaking, and the voice is husky and indistinct. Spasmodic coughing is common. The prognosis is always grave on account of the shock attend- ing the accident, the risk of suffocation and of septic pneumonia. Treatment.—In many cases tracheotomy is immediately called for either to relieve impending suffocation, or to anticipate dyspnoea from oedema of the glottis. In fracture of the hyoid the fragments may be replaced by manipulation through the mouth, after which the neck is fixed by means of cotton-wool and a bandage, or in a poroplastic collar. Wounds — Cut-throat.— The most important variety of wound of the neck met with in civil practice is that known as “cut-throat”—an injury usually inflicted with suicidal, less frequently with homicidal intent. All degrees of cut-throat are met with, and the severity of a given case depends chiefly upon the extent to which important vessels and nerves are injured, and upon whether or not the air and food passages are opened. Suicidal wounds are usually directed from left to right (if the patient be right-handed), and they run more or less obliquely from above downwards across the neck. The wound is usually deepest towards its left end, that is where the weapon enters, and gradually tails off towards the right. In most cases the would-be suicide throws his head so far back at the moment of inflicting the wound, that the main vessels are carried backward under cover of the tense sterno-mastoid muscle, and so escape injury. The knife may even reach the vertebral column without damaging the contents of the carotid sheath.