THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 124 In cases belonging to the first group, while the sclerotic coat and cornea remain intact, the iris may be partially torn from its ciliary origin, and the blood effused collects in the lower portion of the anterior chamber; or the pupillary margin of the iris may be ruptured at several points, causing apparent dilatation of the pupil. The crystalline lens may be partially or com- pletely dislocated, and in the latter case it may pass forward into the anterior chamber or backward into the vitreous. Among other injuries resulting from contusion of the eye may be mentioned haemorrhage into the vitreous, rupture of the choroid, and detachment of the retina. Injuries in which the outer coat of the eyeball is ruptured may be further subdivided into two groups according to whether or not a foreign body is lodged in the globe. Rupture of the outer coat, especially when it results from a punctured wound, adds greatly to the risk of the injury by opening up a path through which septic material may enter the globe, and this risk is materially increased when a foreign body is retained in the cavity of the eyeball. When the globe is burst by a blow with a blunt object, the sclerotic usually gives way, and as the rupture takes place from within outwards, there is less risk of septic infection than in cases of punctured wounds. The lens may be extruded through the wound, and the iris prolapsed. If the rupture is large, the conjunctiva torn, and the globe collapsed from loss of vitreous, the eye should be excised without delay. If sight is not entirely lost and no marked collapse of the globe, an attempt should be made to save the eye. Wounds produced by stabs or punctures are very liable to be followed by septic complications ending in panophthalmitis. When this is threatened, excision of the eye is indicated, not only because the affected eye is destroyed beyond hope of recovery, but to avoid the risk of “ sympathetic ophthalmia ” affecting the other eye. Orbital Cellulitis.—The loose cellular tissue of the orbit is frequently the seat of an acute and diffuse inflammation which usually passes on to suppuration. It is met with at any age, but is most common in adults. As a rule it is unilateral, but both orbits may be affected. The pyogenic bacteria which give rise to the condition may gain access to the orbit through punctured wounds or compound fractures, particularly when foreign bodies are lodged in the cavity, or they may spread directly from the conjunctiva or eyeball when these are the seat of suppurative processes. Orbital cellulitis may also be secondary