168 THE TONGUE. multiple, and the tongue shows old scars or other evidence of syphilis. Gummatous ulcers are usually on the dorsum of the tongue, are frequently multiple, and have sloughy, undermined edges. The surrounding parts, although indurated, are not so densely hard as in cancer. There is not necessarily any involvement of lymphatic glands. The cancerous ulcer is usually single and situated on the edge of the tongue. Its edges are hard, raised, and nodular. The glands are usually enlarged and hard. It must not be forgotten that cancer may become engrafted on syphilitic lesions. Tuberculous ulcers usually occur in association with other and unmistakable evidences of tuberculosis. It is not so essential to establish the diagnosis with certainty as the treat- ment is the same as for cancer, namely removal. This remark applies also to papillomata which show a marked tendency to become malignant. Simple ulcers and fissures are usually recognised by the history of the condition, the absence of indura- tion and of glandular involvement, and by the fact that they heal quickly on removal of the cause. Treatment.—The only treatment which offers any hope of cure is early and free removal of the disease. The method of operating depends on the site and extent of the disease, and upon whether or not the glands are palpably enlarged. Some surgeons advocate the performance of a preliminary laryngotomy on the ground that it facilitates the administration of the anaesthetic, and enables the back of the mouth to be packed so as to diminish the risk of blood passing into the air - passages. Preliminary ligation of the lingual artery or temporary occlusion of the external carotid is also recommended. Jacobson is of opinion that the cervical, submaxillary, and submental glands should be sys- tematically removed at a separate operation carried out three or four weeks after the removal of the tongue. The choice of operation lies between Whitehead’s and Syme’s methods. Whitehead’s operation is specially adapted to cases of cancer limited to one side of the anterior portion of the tongue, but it may be performed even when the whole tongue is implicated. The mouth is opened widely with a gag, and each half of the tongue is transfixed with a loop of stout silk passed through its substance beyond the disease, to enable it to be pulled well out of the mouth. The tongue is then split along the middle line to well beyond the level of the growth. The mucous membrane