668 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. larly when a hydrocele is present. In the later stages, a breaking- down gumma may infiltrate the skin and fix it to the testis. Progress and Results.—If the condition be allowed to progress untreated, it may end in atrophy of the testis. The gummatous tissue slowly disappears, cicatricial tissue takes its jilace and in contracting obliterates the tubules and blood-vessels of the gland. Eventually a small, indurated, fibrous nodule is left at the bottom of the scrotum. In other cases the gumma undergoes caseation and infiltrates the anterior aspect of the scrotum, which finally ulcerates, giving exit to a quantity of yellowish fluid, and expos- ing the surface of the testis covered by a greyish-yellow slough, aptly compared in appearance to a piece of wash-leather. This slough slowly breaks down and is cast off in shreds. The scrotum becomes oedematous, and in some cases is so densely infiltrated as to simulate elephantiasis. When the testicular substance protrudes from the scrotum, the condition of fungus or hernia testis results. Suppuration in a syphilitic testis is exceedingly rare. When both testes undergo atrophy, or are destroyed by caseation sterility results. Treatment.—The treatment is in the main constitutional, and as a rule the condition rapidly yields to antisypliilitic drugs. When the disease is a comparatively early manifestation of syphilis, mercury yields the best results, while in the late tertiary stages the iodides are most useful. As a rule the two drugs should be combined. The inunction of oleate of mercury ointment is often beneficial. When ulceration has occurred, mercurial lotions and dressings should be used. When a large surface of the scrotum is destroyed by ulceration and fungus testis has occurred, the testis should be removed. In the infantile form of syphilitic testis the sclerotic element predominates. The condition is usually met with in children from two to six months old, and as a rule both testes are involved. The glands are about the size of a pigeon’s egg, densely hard and painless. The presence of other signs of congenital syphilis aids in the diagnosis, and the treatment is carried out on the usual lines, mercury in the form of grey powder being particularly useful. Syphilitic epididymitis is a symptom of secondary syphilis, and usually occurs along with other secondary manifestations. A small hard nodule, varying in size from a pea to an almond, appears in the globus major, and is surrounded by some indurated connective tissue. It is very indolent, and is neither painful nor tender. The condition is often bilateral. The body of the