17 CONCUSSION OF THE BPxAIN. consciousness, but merely feels giddy, faint, and dazed for a few seconds. His mind is confused, but lie rapidly recovers, and, perhaps after vomiting, feels quite well again, save for a slight weakness in his limbs. In more severe cases, immediately on receiving the blow the patient falls to the ground unconscious. Sometimes he suffers from a general tetanic seizure, associated with arrest of respira- tion, which may prove fatal. This convulsion is usually of short duration, and is frequently overlooked. The pulse is slow, small, and feeble, and is sometimes irregular in force and frequency. The respirations are short, shallow, slow, and frequently sighing in character. The temperature falls to 97° F., or even lower. The skin is cold and pallid and covered with clammy sweat. The features are pinched and pale. In uncomplicated cases the pupils are usually equal, moder- ately dilated, and react sluggishly to light. The patient can be partially roused by shouting or by other forms of external stimulation, but he soon subsides again into a lethargic condition. Although voluntary movement and the deep reflexes are abolished, there is no true muscular paralysis. After a period, varying from a few minutes to several hours, he rallies, the first evidence often being vomiting, which is usually repeated. Sometimes reaction is ushered in by a mild epileptiform seizure. He then turns on his side, the face becomes flushed, and gradually the symptoms pass off and consciousness returns. The temperature rises to 99° or 100° F., and in some cases remains elevated for a few days. In most cases it falls again to 97° or 97-5°, and remains persistently subnormal for one or two weeks. During reaction the pulse becomes quick and bounding, but after a few hours it again becomes slow, and usually remains abnormally slow (40 to 60) for ten or fourteen days. Very commonly the patient complains of pain in the head for some days after the return of consciousness. There is some- times a tendency to constipation, and the patient is liable to allow the bladder to become distended, although he has no diffi- culty in making water. Children often sleep a great deal during the first few days, but sometimes they are very fretful. In cases complicated by gross brain lesions the symptoms of concussion imperceptibly merge into those of compression. Pathology.—It is probable that in all cases in which the patient loses consciousness there is some definite damage of the cerebral tissue. On microscopic examination we have found 1 1 Miles, Laboratory Reports, Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, vol. iv. VOL. II—2