74 THE SPINE AND CORD. prematurely aged. In examining the patient special attention should be directed to the condition of the deep reflexes and the state of the muscles, as alterations in the reflexes and muscular atrophy indicate some definite organic lesion. This condition is not to be confused with “ concussion of the cord.” It will be observed that the symptoms of so-called “ railway spine ” are almost entirely referable to derangement of the brain rather than of the cord. There is, however, no evidence of organic disease in any part of the central nervous system (Byrom Bramwell, Koclier). The pain in the back is usually the result of muscular sprain and not of lesions of the cord or nerve-roots. As the symptoms are so entirely subjective, it is often extremely difficult to exclude the possibility of malingering. When the patient’s condition is the subject of litigation, it is usually found that the symptoms disappear more or less rapidly after the patient’s anxiety and worry have been removed by the settlement of his claim. Treatment.—So long as litigation is pending the patient derives little benefit from treatment. After his mind is relieved by the settlement of his claim, however—whether favourable to him or not—his health is usually restored by the general tonic treatment employed for neurasthenia. Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage. — Hiemorrhage into the spinal canal is a common accompaniment of all forms of injury to the spine. The lower cervical region is the most common seat of such lnemorrliage. The blood may be effused around the cord (extra-medullary), or into its substance (intra-medullary). Extra - medullary Hemorrhage — Hcematorrachis. -—- The symptoms associated with extra-medullary hiemorrhage are at first of an irritative kind — muscular cramps and jerkings, radiating pains along the course of the nerves pressed upon, and hypersesthesia. It is only when the blood accumulates in sufficient quantity to exert definite pressure on the cord that symptoms of paralysis ensue. It is characteristic of extra- medullary haemorrhage that the paralysis comes on gradually. When the effusion is in the cervical region—-the commonest situation—the arms are more affected than the legs, which may only exhibit an exaggeration of the knee-jerks. The blood may trickle down the canal and collect at a lower level and cause paralysis which slowly spreads from below upwards—gravita- tion paraplegia (Thorburn). The treatment consists in rest in bed, preferably in the prone position ; applying ice-bags over the spine ; administering ergot;