ANAESTHETICS. 698 types. In tlie first-named the ether lies entirely in a special reservoir situated between the face-piece and the bag. In the latter, the ether lies partly in the bag and partly on a sponge which is placed between the face-piece and the bag. Mode of Administration.—An ounce and a half of ether is placed in the chamber of the inhaler, or in the bag, according to the type of inhaler used. The face-piece is brought within about an inch of the patient’s face (which has been turned to one side), and he is requested to breathe regularly. In a few seconds the face-piece is brought nearer, and finally closely adapted to the face, care being taken to catch a few expirations, and so have some air in the bag to mix with the ether vapour. If the inhaler is of the Clover type, the ether is slowly turned on by rotation of the chamber around its own axis; if of the Ormsby type, by slowly raising the bag containing the ether and sprinkling the anaesthetic over the sponge. As the ether is added, the patient may cough and choke a little, but if no attempt is made to make him inhale a strong vapour before he is at least semi-unconscious, this will generally pass off and, if the administration is judiciously conducted, anaesthesia will be complete in about five minutes. When the patient is once under, less ether need be given, and a breath of air—one inspira- tion — should be allowed in every five breaths, the ensuing expiration being caught in the bag so as to maintain a supply of air which is not carbonised. The inhaler can be kept applied by means of one hand, the thumb and forefinger of that hand grasping the face-piece, while the remaining fingers lie over the vertical ramus of the patient’s jaw, drawing it forwards. Mixtures of Ether and Chloroform. The use of a mixture of alcohol, chloroform, and ether, known as ACE., has been much advocated as a substitute for chloroform or ether alone, but this combination cannot be con- sidered an ideal one, as the alcohol evaporates at a much slower rate than chloroform or ether, and the lint or sponge becomes saturated with it, and refuses to take up any chloroform or ether. The most useful mixture is chloroform, one part, and ether, two parts, which, for convenience, may be called CE. mixture. It is an excellent anaesthetic for all classes of patients except the worst of alcoholics and drug takers. It is best given on a Rendal’s mask made of celluloid, or a cone of metal, like Blake’s inhaler, with flannel or sponge inside to take up the anaesthetic.