423 STRANGULATION BY BANDS. volved, and the lesion is usually situated in the lower part of the abdomen because of the frequency with which adhesions and bands form in relation to appendicitis, pelvic peritonitis, and hernial openings, or from a Meckel’s diverticulum. Bands result- ing from tuberculous peritonitis and disease of the mesenteric glands are most frequently situated in the umbilical region. The average length of the strangulated loop is about fifteen inches, and the changes which take place in it are precisely the same as those already described as occurring in strangulated hernia. The peritoneal exudation which occupies the abdominal cavity is often copious, and in acute cases is blood-stained. Smooth, rounded or slit-like apertures, through which a knuckle of bowel may pass and become strangulated, are occasionally met with, chiefly in the mesentery of the lower ileum. These openings may be congenital, or may result from a tear, or from neglect to stitch up the mesentery after the operation of resection of the bowel. The clinical features associated with strangulation by bands or through apertures, are usually those of acute intestinal obstruction, and they closely resemble those of strangulated hernia. Although there is no age limit the patients are usually between the ages of twenty and forty, and there is often a history of a former attack of peritonitis or other condition likely to lead to the formation of adhesions. In the majority of cases the onset of obstruction is sudden and acute. Less frequently there is a history of abdominal discomfort or pain, or a previous threatening of obstruction. In the instances in which the onset has been gradual, the patient has usually had some pain with trifling vomiting and incomplete constipation for some days before the development of the signs of acute strangulation. In typical cases pain, vomiting, and collapse are prominent features. Examination of the abdomen and of the rectum usually yields negative results. It is exceptional to discover a tumour or swelling composed of the strangulated loop of bowel, or to recognise dulness from the effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity. In several of our own cases there has been a consider- able discharge of blood by the rectum. A definite diagnosis can rarely be made, but the lesion may be inferred from the history of the patient and by excluding other causes of obstruction. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen in or near the middle line below the umbilicus. Blood-stained fluid is found in the peritoneal cavity. If the strangulated bowel is not within easy reach of the wound, it can usually be dis-