154 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. of the external pterygoid muscles by a fall on the chin or by a severe blow on the side of the face. When the fracture is unilateral the broken condyle is tilted inward and forward by the external pterygoid, and can be palpated from the mouth, while the rest of the jaw is displaced towards the affected side, and not away from it, as happens in unilateral dislocation. When the fracture is bilateral, the lower jaw falls backwards so that the lower teeth lie behind those of the upper jaw. In a few rare cases the condyle has been driven through the glenoid cavity, causing fracture of the base of the skull. Complications.—As the majority of fractures of the jaw are compound, suppuration is comparatively common during the process of repair. If antiseptic precautions be taken, however, it can usually be kept in check, and seldom leads to necrosis. The teeth adjacent to the fracture are liable to be loosened or displaced. If merely loosened they should be left in place, as they usually become firmly fixed in the course of a few days. Care must be taken that a displaced tooth does not pass between the fragments, as this has been the cause of difficulty in reducing a fracture and of its failure to unite. Irregular union by destroying the align- ment of the teeth leads to interference Fig. 43.—Four - tailed with mastication. Want of union is a rare Fracture o^Lolver Jaw! ®vent The b°lle USUally UniteS in from four to six weeks. Treatment.—In the majority of cases, after the fracture has been reduced, the fragments can be kept in apposition by closing the mouth and keeping the lower jaw fixed against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage (Fig. 43). Care must be taken that the posterior tails of the bandage do not pull the lower jaw backward. Additional security may be given by a light poro- plastic or gutta-percha splint fitted to the chin, the vertical portion passing well up the ramus of the jaw. The apparatus is worn for four or five weeks, during which time the patient is fed on fluid or semi-fluid food. The mouth must be regularly purified by an antiseptic inouth-wash. In a certain number of fractures implicating the body of the jaw, and particularly in bilateral fractures, there is some difficulty in maintaining the fragments in apposition by the four-tailed bandage and external splint. It may then be necessary to employ some form of dental splint, of which, perhaps, Hammond’s