250 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. which 'reach the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly. Between the two layers of mucous membrane of which the ary-epiglottic folds are com- posed are the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. Situated between the two arytenoid cartilages is the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane which forms the upper margin of the posterior wall of the larynx. This structure, along with the ary-epiglottic folds laterally and the epiglottis in front, constitutes the boundary of the upper aperture of the larynx. In the interior of the larynx the true vocal cords form the most prominent features, being conspicuous as two flat white bands. The vocal cords form the boundary of the rima glottidis or glottic chink. Above each true cord, and parallel with it, the false cord or ventricular band is evident as a pink fold of mucous membrane. Between the false and true cord on each side is a linear interval, which indicates the entrance to the ventricle of Morgagni. Bronchoscopy and Tracheoscopy.— Direct examination of the trachea and larger bronchi may be made by the introduction through the mouth and rima glottidis, or through a tracheotomy wound, of metal tubes of varying size. This method of examination has been developed by Killian of Freiburg, who has employed it in a number of cases for the detection and extraction of foreign bodies in the lower air-passages. The tube may be passed under general amesthesia or after cocainisation of the pharynx and larynx. Operations on the Air-Passages Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy consists in opening the pharynx by means of a mesial, vertical incision carried through the thyro- hyoid membrane. It is performed for the removal of foreign bodies and new growths in the vicinity of the upper aperture of the larynx If additional room is required, for example in the case of tumours involving the epiglottis, the incision may be extended to the symphysis menti and the hyoid bone divided in the middle line. It is usually necessary to perform a preliminary tracheotomy to prevent blood entering the air-passages, and to diminish the risk from oedema of the glottis. Thyrotomy consists in splitting the thyroid cartilage in the middle line for the removal of papillomata or of foreign bodies from the interior of the larynx, or for exploratory purposes in cases of cancer. A mesial incision is made from the hyoid bone to the cricoid cartilage, the muscles are separated, and the thyroid split longitudinally. After completing the intra-laryngeal part of the operation, the two halves of the cartilage are subsequently sutured in position, special care being taken to approximate accurately the vocal cords in order to avoid interference with phonation. The stitches should not penetrate the whole thickness of the carti- lage. A preliminary tracheotomy is usually advisable, but the