68G THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. and growth of the organisms. When it is associated with chronic balanitis, it would appear to favour the development of cancer of the penis. The condition may interfere with coitus, the semen being retained in the preputial pouch. Acquired phimosis is usually met with in adults, and is due to oedematous swelling and congestion of the prepuce resulting, as a rule, from such inflammatory conditions as gonorrhoea, soft sores, hard chancre, eczema, or herpes preputialis. It may also occur in diabetic patients from the irritation caused by fermentation of sugar-containing urine. It is most likely to develop in those who have naturally a long and narrow prepuce, and is therefore rather an aggravation of a congenital phimosis than a new condition. Preputial Calculi.—Calculi com- posed of uric acid, urates, and phosphates are occasionally met with in the preputial sac of adults who suffer from marked degrees of phim- osis. They are due to the deposit of salts from the urine which stagnates in the pouch, and the nucleus of the calculus may be a mass of inspissated smegma or mucus, or a small stone which has passed from the kidney or bladder and become lodged behind the prepuce. They may be single or multiple, varying in size from a pea to a walnut or even larger, and are usually smooth and faceted (Fig. 154). Treatment.—As the slighter degrees of congenital phimosis tend to disappear spontaneously, treatment is only called for in childhood when the condition gives rise to symptoms. After puberty the condition tends to get worse rather than better and operation is always indicated. The only method of treatment that need be considered is circumcision. The glans is pushed back, and the prepuce grasped with a pair of dressing forceps applied to it obliquely from above downwards and forwards. The tissue in front of the blades of the forceps is then cut off with a long bistoury. Care must be taken to remove just enough skin to enable the glans to be completely exposed, and yet to leave a covering for the sensitive papillae of the corona. If after removal of the forceps it is found that the lining membrane of the prepuce is still redundant, the excess must be cut away with scissors. The bleeding is arrested by torsion or Fig. 154.—Preputial Calculi. (From Professor Annandale’s collection.)