178 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. into the temporo-maxillary joint, or escapes by bursting into the external auditory meatus. Serious haemorrhage may result from erosion of the vessels traversing the gland or of the internal jugular vein, or venous thrombosis may ensue. Per- sistent paralysis may follow destruction of the facial nerve. Treatment.—During the first two or three days hot fomenta- tions are applied, and the mouth is frequently washed out with an antiseptic. As soon as pus has formed, it must be evacuated. An incision is made behind the angle of the jaw, parallel to the branches of the facial nerve, the abscess opened by Hilton’s method, and a large drainage tube inserted. Acute inflammation of the submaxillary gland is met with under the same conditions as that of the parotid. Both glands are occasionally attacked at the same time. An acute phlegmonous periadenitis sometimes occurs in the loose cellular tissue around the submaxillary gland, and spreads with great rapidity through the cellular planes of the neck. The condition—which goes by the name of angina Ludovici—is usually met with in adults, and appears to originate in some septic focus in the mouth. The onset is sudden and acute, and is marked by a rigor, with high temperature and a rapid, inter- mittent, and compressible pulse. The submaxillary region becomes densely infiltrated and brawny, and the swelling extends upwards towards the root of the tongue and downwards in the neck towards the mediastinum. The mouth is closed, the tongue fixed, and swallowing is impossible. The inflammatory swelling may spread to the air-passages and induce oedema of the glottis. Diffuse suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue usually occur, and may lead to general pysemia by causing venous thrombosis. Unless incisions are made early the condi- tion may prove fatal. The treatment consists in making incisions through the deep fascia in order to relieve the tension, or to evacuate pus if it has formed. The general toxaemia must be treated, and free stimulation is urgently called for. Acute suppurative inflammation of the sublingual gland is associated with the formation of an exceedingly painful and tender swelling under the tongue. The tongue is gradually pushed against the roof of the mouth, so that swallowing is difficult and respiration may be seriously impeded. There is marked constitutional disturbance. An incision into the swell- ing is immediately followed by relief of the symptoms. Tuberculous disease of the salivary glands is rare. It usually begins in the lymphatic glands within the capsule of the parotid