203 SYMPTOMS OF NASAL AFFECTIONS. they bleed readily. They are best removed by means of the cold snare, with the aid of the speculum and a good light. Several sittings are usually necessary. Carcinomata and sarcomata sometimes grow from the muco- periosteum in the region of the ethmoid. These tumours tend to invade adjacent parts and to cause considerable deformity of the face. They give rise to symptoms similar to those of naso- pharyngeal tumours. The treatment consists in removing the new growth if this be practicable. Deviations, spines, and ridges of the septum may produce partial or complete occlusion of the anterior naris. In deviation of the septum, the obstructed nostril is more or less occluded by a smooth rounded swelling of cartilaginous or bony hardness, which is covered with normal mucous membrane, while the opposite nostril shows a corresponding concavity or hollowing of the septum. Sometimes the convex side is thickened in the form of a ridge. A simple spine of the septum is usually situated anteriorly, and presents an acuminate appearance, often pressing against the inferior turbinated body; it is hard to the touch. Ridges and spines may be cut or sawn off, or removed with the chisel. Many methods of dealing with a deviated septum have been suggested, such as forcible fracture, excision of a portion of the cartilage, or the formation of a hole in the septum. The chief difficulty is to counteract the resiliency of the cartilage, and so prevent recurrence of the deformity. Hcematoma of the septum is usually traumatic in origin. As the result of a blow an extravasation of blood takes place beneath the perichondrium on each side of the septum, and a bilateral, symmetrical swelling, smooth in outline and covered with mucous membrane, is visible immediately within the anterior nares. The blood is usually absorbed and should not be inter- fered with. If suppuration occurs, however, the swelling becomes soft, fluctuation can be detected, and the patient’s discomfort increases. The abscess must then be incised and the cavity plugged. It is sometimes found that a portion of the cartilage undergoes necrosis, leading to the formation of a perforation in the septum. Nasal discharge may be mucous, muco-purulent, or purulent in character. When it is of a clear, watery nature, it is usually associated with erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies. A purulent discharge may be complained of from one or both nostrils. If unilateral, it should suggest, in the case of children, the presence of a foreign body; in adults, the possibility of suppuration in one or more of the accessory sinuses.