THE INTESTINES. 454 may be established in the crecum, in order to put the large bowel at rest and to allow of irrigation. Lipomata and fibromata rarely cause symptoms unless by giving rise to intussusception or stenosis of the bowel. Malignant disease of the intestine is described at p. 437. Enteroptosis.—In the sense in which this term is used by Glenard, it implies a downward displacement of the stomach, transverse colon, and generally of the right or of both kidneys, accompanied by digestive disturbances, and often by symptoms of neurasthenia. The term splanchnoptosis may be used to indicate downward displacements of all the abdominal organs, enteroptosis being confined to those cases in which the bowel alone is displaced. The transverse colon may descend to the level of the sym- physis, the stomach may be found anywhere between the umbilicus and the pubes, and the small intestine sink into the lower part of the abdomen and pelvis. One or both kidneys are frequently displaced downwards; more rarely the liver and spleen. The uterus is commonly tilted backwards, and may be prolapsed or even protruded from the vagina. The condition is predisposed to by impairment of the health, muscular debility, and by repeated pregnancies causing stretching and loss of tone in the muscular and fascial structures of the abdominal wall, and is aggravated by compression of the waist and the weight of the skirts forcing the viscera downwards. Adhesions resulting from pelvic peritonitis may cause descent of the viscera by direct traction. The symptoms do not correspond to the amount of displace- ment. In many cases the complaints are those associated with neurasthenia. More frequently the patient complains of constant dragging pain in the abdomen and loins, aggravated by standing or exertion, and relieved by lying down. Special symptoms referable to the displacement of individual organs may be present. The diagnosis is made by physical examination of the ab- domen, the patient being placed successively in the recumbent, the knee-elbow, and the erect posture. Treatment is directed towards improving the general health and increasing the amount of adipose tissue, removing any causal factors such as tight-lacing or over-exertion, regulating the stomach and bowels, and restoring the muscular tone of the abdominal walls by means of massage and suitable exercises. The falling down of the viscera may to a certain extent be con- trolled by an appropriate bandage, belt, or corset, applied while