368 HERNIA. they are gripped and fixed by the pressure of the anterior and posterior walls, which by the contraction of the external oblique and the transversalis are made tense and are approximated. The canal, therefore, acts as a sphincter, and would with greater accuracy be described as the inguinal valve ” (Moynihan). The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, from without inwards, are : the integument, the intercolumnar fascia derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the cremasteric fascia and cremaster muscle con- tinuous with the internal oblique, the infundibuliform fascia repre- senting the fascia transversalis, the extra-peritoneal tissue, and the peritoneum. Oblique Inguinal Hernia.— In the acquired form the sac is derived from the parietal peri- toneum. In the earliest stage a mere bulging at the internal ring may be observed during expulsive efforts. By degrees the canal is filled up by the protruded peri- toneum until the external ring is reached, and then the hernia in- creases more rapidly and becomes pyriform in shape, the neck or narrow portion of the swelling lying in the inguinal canal. In its further progress the hernia descends into the scrotum, where it lies above or in front of the testis with the structures of the cord behind it. As a result of the stretching of the inguinal canal, the internal and external abdominal rings become approximated until they lie directly behind one another, and the neck of the sac and the canal which it occupies become progressively shorter. This is best appreciated clinically by reducing the hernia and invaginating the scrotum by passing the finger along the cord until it is engaged in the external ring. In hern he of long standing the canal may be so short that the finger traverses the whole length of it, and may even enter the abdomen through the internal ring. Acquired hernia, although at first unilateral, ultimately becomes bilateral in fully one-third of the cases. Diagnosis.—While the hernia is still in the stage of bubono- Fig. 69.—Double Oblique Inguinal Hernia.