TUBERCULOUS EMPYEMA. 277 into the pleura during inspiration. To ensure its remaining in position the tube may be fitted with a rubber flange at each end. During the after-treatment the patient should lie on the affected side as much as possible to promote the escape of the discharge. To prevent the suction of air into the pleural cavity, the end of the tube should be covered with a piece of oilecl-silk protective, which acts as a valve; or a syphon, or valvular tube may be employed. The expansion of the lung should be further encouraged by breathing exercises, or by the use of some wind instrument. The wound is dressed once or twice daily according to the amount of discharge. The tubes are left in as long as the discharge is purulent, and when it becomes serous they may be discarded. The sooner the patient can be got into the open air the better. Bilateral Empyema.—Owing to the risk of collapse of the lung on opening the pleura in cases where no adhesions have formed, it is seldom advisable in cases of double empyema to operate on both sides at once. The safest procedure is to incise and drain one side, and at the same time to aspirate the other. In the course of a few days the second side may be operated upon. Tuberculous Empyema.—This may originate as a serous effusion associated with tuberculous pleurisy, or from the rupture of a phthisical cavity into the pleura, in which case it is some- times complicated by pneumothorax. The pus is usually encapsulated by the greatly thickened pleura, and the condition is practically a cold abscess. When the condition is due to rupture of a phthisical cavity, the onset is acute, and is attended with constitutional disturbance ; in other cases it is insidious, and the progress of the disease slow. The lung ultimately becomes collapsed from the pressure of the fluid. Operative treatment is much less satisfactory than in the pyogenic forms. The lung usually fails to expand, and the sinuses continue to discharge, and if septic infection occur, symptoms of hectic fever supervene and the patient gradually loses strength. Old-Standing Empyema with Infected Sinuses.—It fre- quently happens, particularly in the tuberculous form in adults, that an empyema continues to discharge for many months, and constitutes what is known as a chronic empyema. The obliteration of the cavity is effected, under ordinary conditions, partly by the expansion of the lung, so that the visceral and parietal pleura; are brought into contact, partly by the elevation of the diaphragm and the displacement of the other