326 THE PERITONEUM. peritonitis is to open and cleanse the peritoneal cavity, and to deal with the lesion from which the peritonitis originated. In practice, however, this is not always practicable. In the first place the patient may have already absorbed a lethal dose of toxin, in which case an operation will only precipitate the fatal termination. It is therefore better to abstain from interference in cases in which the symptoms of septic poisoning predominate, and especially in cases coming under the category of peritoneal septicaemia. Further, the efficient cleansing of the cavity of the peritoneum, especially when the intestines are ballooned with gas and the opposing serous surfaces are gummed together by lymph, is often a mechanical impossibility. In addition, the lesion from which the peritonitis originated may not lend itself to surgical treatment. There remain, however, a number of cases in which it is our duty to give the patient such chance of cure as an operation may offer. The preliminaries of the operation include the hypodermic injection of strychnin, washing out the stomach, and emptying the bladder. A local amesthetic may suffice, but if it is necessary to carry out manipulations within the abdomen a general amesthetic must be employed. Unless there are reasons to the contrary, an incision three or four inches long is made near the middle line to one or other side of the umbilicus, and is extended as may be required. If it is found that the bowels are blown up with gas and gummed together with purulent lymph, it may be wiser to abandon the operation and close the abdomen, or at most to introduce large drainage tubes into the loins and pouch of Douglas, and to wash through these. In other cases an attempt should be made to cleanse the cavity, and to discover and remove the source of the peritonitis. The cleansing of the peritoneal cavity is effected by soaking up the exudation with pads of gauze wrung out of saline solution. Irrigation is called for in the more generalised forms of peritonitis—for example, in perforated gastric ulcer. Two large tubes are pushed in—along- side each other—to successive regions, and a steady stream of saline solution, at a temperature of about 105c F., is sent along one of them until it returns quite clear. Coarse handling of the viscera must be avoided ; adherent lymph should not be removed. It may be necessary to make additional openings, especially one above the pubes to drain the pouch of Douglas. With the object of more thoroughly cleansing the peritoneum it has been proposed to eventrate the bowels through a large incision. Partial eventration may be necessary to obtain access to the