OBSTRUCTION OF COMMON BILE DUCT. 171 it lias not passed by the natural channels, but by a fistulous communication between the bile-duct and the intestine. During the attack, morphin and atropin are injected hypodermically, and poultices are applied in the hope that the stone will be passed into the duodenum. Chronic Obstruction of the Common Bile-Duct. — This is usually due to a single stone, but there may be a chain of stones. The mucous membrane of the duct is in a condition of catarrhal inflammation—cholangitis—and may be the seat of superficial ulcers, and the inflammatory products, like the bile, are prevented by the stone from draining into the duodenum. In a small proportion of cases the cholangitis assumes a suppurative character; the lesser ducts within the liver become dilated, inflamed, and filled with pus, and the liver may be greatly enlarged and studded throughout with small abscesses. The inflammation may extend to the tissues outside the duct, for example, to the peritoneum, leading to adhesions with the adjacent organs, or to the portal vein, giving rise vmpyelophlebitis. The inflammatory processes in the common duct may lead to changes in the pancreas of the nature of chronic interstitial pancreatitis. If the duct become adherent to the intestine, the stone may ulcerate through into the bowel, and so bring about a natural cure, but if perforation takes place into the general peritoneal cavity, such a process of ulceration may terminate disastrously. In cases of chronic obstruction the gall-bladder is usually small and contracted from antecedent cholecystitis, and buried in adhesions resulting from pericholecystitis. If the obstruction is of long standing, the liver may become the seat of cirrhosis. Clinical Features.—Pain is usually present, but rarely assumes the severe colicky type of recent obstruction. While jaundice is the rule, it varies in degree from time to time, and this varia- tion is believed to depend on a ball-valve action of the stone, which floats to and fro in the distended duct, so that the bile is able at times to flow past the stone. When the stone is impacted in the ampulla of Vater, the jaundice is extreme and persistent. While there is jaundice the urine contains bile, and the motions are sometimes brown, sometimes clay-coloured. Intermittent fever is usual, with or without occasional rigors. When cholangitis is a prominent feature, the characteristic symptom is the occurrence at irregular intervals of ague-like seizures associated with remittent jaundice. Between the attacks the jaundice is much less pronounced. In suppurative cholangitis the temperature tends to pursue a hectic course, with rigors and