107 SCOLIOSIS OF ADOLESCENTS. Scoliosis would therefore appear to be due to the combined influence of weak muscles, imperfectly ossified bones, and the repeated assumption of faulty attitudes. It would appear that with regard to the production of scoliosis too much stress has hitherto been laid on such factors as the excessive use of one arm in the carrying of weights, the habit of resting on one leg more than the other, the occasional assumption of faulty attitudes in writing, playing the piano or violin, and similar actions. It is probable that the greater frequency of the primary curvature towards the right is associated in some way with the more general use of the right hand and arm, although primary curvatures towards the left are not confined to left-handed persons. Morbid Anatomy. — The original deviation or “primary curve ” is usually in the dorsal region and has its convexity directed towards the right side. To re-establish the equilibrium of the column, “ secondary ” or “ compensatory ” curves, having their convexities to the left, develop in the regions above and below the primary curve. It has been proved experimentally that lateral deviation of the spine is inevitably accompanied by rotation of the vertebrae around a vertical axis, in such a way that their bodies look towards the convexity of the curve, while their spines, laminae, and articular processes are directed towards the concavity (Fig. 27). As the deformity increases, the individual vertebrae become distorted, the bodies becoming wedge-shaped from side to side, the base of the wedge looking towards the convexity of the curve while the narrow end looks towards the concavity. As the spines, laminae, and articular processes also undergo altera- tions in shape, the tips of the spinous processes do not furnish an accurate index of the degree of lateral deviation of the spine. The ligaments are altered in length in accordance with the changes in the bones. The muscles undergo no structural change except in advanced cases. In the dorsal region the ribs necessarily accompany the transverse processes, so that on the side of the convexity they form an undue prominence behind—the “ rib-hump ” (Fig. 26), while on the side of the concavity the ribs are flattened and are crowded together so that the intercostal spaces are diminished or even obliterated. The converse—flattening on the side of the convexity and projection on the side of the concavity—is seen on the front of the chest. The general shape of the thorax is altered, the cavity on the