156 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. culty in .swallowing, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. As the lips cannot be approximated, the speech is indistinct and guttural. Just in front of the auditory meatus a deep hollow can be felt, and in front of this the condyle forms an undue projection. The coronoid process is displaced below and behind the malar bone, and may be felt through the mouth. Above the zygoma the contracted belly of the temporal muscle forms a more or less marked prominence. In unilateral dislocation (Fig. 44) the deformity is the same in character but is less marked, and in mild cases its cause is liable to be overlooked. In most cases the chin deviates towards the sound side. Treatment. — In recent cases reduction is usually easily effected. The patient should be seated on a low chair or stool, an assistant supporting the head from behind. The surgeon, stand- ing in front, places his thumbs, well protected by a roll of lint, far back on the molar teeth, and with his other fingers grasps the body of the jaw. Pressure is now made downwards and backwards to free the condyles from the articular eminence, and as this is effected the tip of the chin is carried upward, while the whole jaw is pushed directly backward. The condyle slips into position, sometimes with a distinct snap. When difficulty is experienced in levering the condyle from its abnormal position a cork may be placed between the molar teeth on each side to act as a fulcrum. After reduction the jaw is fixed by means of a four-tailed bandage for a week or ten days. The patient is warned to avoid all wide movements of the jaw for some weeks. Old-standing Dislocation.—It sometimes happens that, from having been overlooked or neglected, the dislocation remains unreduced. In such cases the movement of the jaw is in time partly restored, and the patient acquires sufficient control of the lips to be able to articulate intelligibly and to prevent dribbling Fig. 44.—Unilateral Dislocation of Lower Jaw, caused ky yawning, showing promin- ence of right condyle on cheek.