242 THE (ESOPHAGUS. are usually the result of direct spread from the bronchial glands, and the most prominent symptoms are pain during and after taking food, dysphagia, vomiting, and sometimes severe hanna- temesis. These symptoms are most marked when the condition has gone on to ulceration, and the disease is liable to be mistaken either for gastric ulcer or for cancer of the oesophagus. The oesophagus is sometimes invaded by the spread of tubercul- ous disease from the larynx. Syphilitic affections of the oesophagus are rare, and give rise to symptoms similar to those of tubercle. Varix of the veins of the lower end of the oesophagus occasionally occurs in cases of cirrhosis of the liver. The only surgical interest attaching to the condition is that it may give rise to severe haematemesis, and is therefore liable to be mistaken for gastric ulcer. Cicatricial Stricture.—The commonest and most serious form of cicatricial or fibrous stricture of the oesophagus is that which follows the swallowing of caustics. The narrowing is usually most marked at the upper or at the lower end of the oesophagus, but several contractions may be met with along the tube, or it may even be stenosed throughout its whole length. The strictures may be circular, linear, or irregular, and the opening is often eccentric, rendering the tube tortuous and the passage of instruments exceedingly difficult. Less frequently a stricture results from injury caused by an impacted foreign body, or in extracting it by operation or other- wise. In such cases the stricture is usually in the middle part or at the upper end of the tube. Localised thickening of the walls producing a certain degree of stenosis sometimes follows the healing of a syphilitic gumma or an ulcer, and is also said to occur as a result of habitual drinking of raw spirits. Clinical Features.—The symptoms appear at intervals, varying from months to years, after injury. The most prominent is a gradually increasing difficulty in swallowing. At first the patient observes that he requires to add fluids to his solid food in order to swallow it with ease. Later he is unable to swallow solids, and finally has difficulty even with fluids. He is usually able to indicate the point at which he feels the food suddenly stop in its passage along the oesophagus. The difficulty may be temnorarily aggravated by a passing congestion of the mucous membrane. In the later stages regurgitation of unaltered food occurs, immediately after swallowing when the stricture is high up in the oesophagus, after a varying interval when it is near the