QUINSY. 135 Acute Suppurative Tonsillitis and Pharyngitis.—Suppura- tive inflammation of the tonsils and pharynx may ensue on the catarrhal form just described, or may be due to infection of a scratch or abrasion of the mucous membrane produced by a foreign body, such as a fish or game bone. Two forms are recog- nised—the follicular and the parenchymatous. In the follicular form the inflammation affects chiefly the lymphoid follicles which abound in the tonsils and pharynx. The mucous membrane is red and swollen, and the tonsils are enlarged and project so that they obstruct the isthmus of the fauces, sometimes even meeting in the middle line. A viscid muco-purulent secretion adheres to the surface in patches, and in the openings of the crypts of the tonsils yellowish plugs, consisting of leucocytes and desquamated epithelium, may be visible. There is pain on swallowing, and the respiration is impeded and noisy. The glands behind the angle of the jaw are enlarged and tender. There is usually some degree of fever. In the parenchymatous form—quinsy — the inflammation is more diffuse, and affects the whole substance of the tonsils, the pillars of the fauces, the soft palate, and the pharynx. The onset is usually sudden, and the affection is ushered in by a rigor, high fever, and a feeling of malaise. There is persistent thirst and dryness of the throat, and the patient has the sensation of a foreign body being in the pharynx, with a constant tendency to swallow. Swallowing is extremely painful, the pain shooting up into the ears. There are often cracking and noises in the ears. The voice is thick and nasal, and the respiration is impeded and noisy. If the patient can open the mouth sufficiently to afford a view of the back of the throat (which, however, is seldom the case), the inflamed parts are seen to be of a dull reddish violet colour. One tonsil is often more swollen than the other, and the corresponding anterior pillar of the fauces more prominent. The uvula is deviated towards the side on which there is least swelling. Pus forms in from three to seven days, and in adults it is usually in the peritonsillar tissue of the anterior pillar of the fauces. In children the pus sometimes forms in the substance of the tonsil. If left to burst, the abscess discharges itself into the mouth, and the patient experiences instant relief. The pus is always offensive, and if the abscess bursts during sleep, it may enter the air passages and cause septic pneumonia. The lymphatic glands in the neck may become enlarged, and a diffuse septic cellulitis is liable to occur. Treatment.—As the bowels are usually constipated, calomel or other opening medicine should be given at the outset. In