NEPHROLITHOTOMY. 571 with constant aching in the loin which interferes with the pursuits of the patient. It is to be recommended in all cases in which a stone is impacted in the ureter, and where there is evidence of commencing septic infection. Operation is contra- indicated in cases of frequently recurring colic, in which every attack is followed by the passage of a small non-faceted stone, and the patient between the attacks, is quite well, and the urine normal, because in such cases there is probably fresh stone formation from time to time, and an operation would be useless. The operation for the removal of stone is known as nephro- lithotomy, and was first carried out successfully by Henry Morris in 1880. The incision is made in the loin—from the angle between the last rib and erector spinse downwards and forwards towards the anterior superior spine, and must be free enough to give access to the renal vessels and upper end of the ureter, and to enable the kidney to be brought to the surface. The vessels at the hilum are controlled by the fingers of an assistant. The organ is then laid open along its convex border, to admit the finger to the pelvis and calyces. If there are no septic complications the wound in the kidney is closed by deep catgut sutures. If the stone is lodged in the upper part of the ureter it is displaced by manipulation into the pelvis, and removed as above; if this is not possible, the ureter is incised in its long axis—ureterotomy—the stone extracted, and the opening closed by fine sutures. If the stone is impacted near the crossing of the iliac vessels the incision in the abdominal wall must be carried downwards parallel with Poupart’s ligament, so as to expose the ureter by the extra-peritoneal method, or an incision is made directly over it, and it is reached by the trans- peritoneal method. Stones at the lower end of the ureter may be removed through the vaginal roof, or in the male, through the perineum or by the parasacral route. Complications of Stone in the Kidney.—The most important of these result from septic infection or from arrest of secretion, the latter in its complete form being known as calculous anuria. Calculous Pyelitis and Pyonephrosis.—The infection is usually derived from the blood-stream, and the changes are similar to those already described as occurring from sepsis apart from stone. The tendency is iu the direction of progressive destruction of the secreting tissue, until, in the most extreme cases, the kidney is converted into a multilocular sac filled with stones and a mixture of pus and decomposing urine. Secondary deposit of phosphates commonly occurs both on the primary stone and on the walls of the pelvis and calyces. The septic process tends to