INGUINAL HERNIA. 371 Direct Inguinal Hernia.—This variety of hernia is always acquired, and it protrudes at the semilunar line between the epigastric artery and the outer edge of the rectus muscle. It enters at the lower part of the inguinal canal, splitting or carrying in front of it the conjoined tendon, and emerges at the external abdominal ring. The spermatic cord usually lies at the outer side of the sac. There is no obliquity of the neck. It is met with chiefly in adult males between the ages of forty and fifty. It is usually small, forming a bubonocele, and rarely reaches the scrotum. When the hernia is being reduced it appears to pass directly backwards, and relatively to the protrusion the abdominal opening is large, and appears as a simple gap in the belly-wall. The hernia is slightly more common on the right than on the left side, and it may be bilateral. It is usually reducible. It is less liable to strangulation than the oblique hernia, and when strangulated the bowel is less frequently damaged seriously. Treatment of Inguinal Hernia in the Adult. — Palliative treatment consists in the wearing of a mechanical appliance known as a truss. A truss is a belt containing a stout spring which encircles the body, and is fitted with a pad, by means of which the force of the spring is applied to the hernial orifice. The pad is made of cork covered with chamois leather or other soft material. In being measured for a truss the patient should be lying down, and the tape crosses the base of the sacrum, comes forwards between the iliac crest and the upper border of the great trochanter, and reaches the middle line just above the symphysis pubis. The number of inches recorded will express the size of the truss. A truss should fulfil two essential conditions—it should retain the hernia completely under all cir- cumstances, and it should be perfectly comfortable. A good truss should be light and yet strong, should fit the body accurately, and the pad should maintain its position in all movements of the wearer. If the spring presses too lightly, the truss fails to retain the hernia • if on the other hand it presses too heavily, it causes discomfort, and tends to bring about atrophy of the Fig. 70 .—Single Spiral Truss for Right Oblique Inguinal Hernia.