CHEONIC MASTITIS. 293 sometimes proves useful. Mercurial inunction and the internal administration of iodides should be tried when there is reason to suspect a syphilitic element. When these means are ineffectual, an exploratory incision should be made, and if the diagnosis remains uncertain, the gland should be excised. Circumscribed Chronic Interstitial Mastitis.—It is not un- common to find a localised patch of chronically indurated breast tissue in women who have prolonged suckling unduly, or who have sustained some injury to the mamma. A similar condition may be met with after an abscess has been evacuated, after suppuration in an operation wound, or when a foreign body, such as a needle, is embedded in the breast. The importance of recognising this condition lies in the fact that it is very liable to be mistaken for a scirrhous carcinoma. The differential diagnosis is always difficult, and in many cases can only be made by exploratory incision. The points upon which we may rely are that in chronic interstitial mastitis the nodule is tender on pressure, is less hard and dense than a scirrhous tumour, and its outline is not so well defined. The swelling can be recognised best by picking it up between the fingers and thumb ; when it is pressed firmly against the chest wall with the flat of the hand it is less distinct and appears to be lost in the rest of the mammary tissue. It can be lifted up from the subjacent pectoral fascia, and, except when it results from an old abscess, is not attached to the skin. A scirrhous tumour on the other hand is densely hard, has a well-defined outline, and these points are best appreciated when the mass is pressed against the chest wall. It is seldom tender on pressure, and the skin is usually tacked down to the tumour. In both conditions the nipple may or may not be retracted, and the axillary glands may or may not be enlarged. Chronic lobular mastitis affects chiefly the parenchyma, that is, the acini and ducts of the gland, but the inter-acinous connective tissue is also implicated to some extent. As the disease progresses, proliferative and degenerative changes take place in the epithelial elements, with the result that numerous cysts form in the parenchyma—hence the term multiple cystic disease, which is sometimes applied to this condition. In some cases small fibro-adenomatous nodules form in the inter-acinous connective tissue as a result of hyperplasia and sclerosis. Small warty growths frequently project into the interior of the cysts. The lobular form of mastitis is more common than the interstitial. It usually occurs in women between the ages of thirty and forty who have not borne children, and affects both