THE STOMACH. .392 oesophagus. The incision is usually made in the middle line above the umbilicus. The stomach having been identified, and its contents pressed onwards into the duodenum, the part to be opened is withdrawn and packed round with sterilised gauze to prevent contamination of the peritoneum. An incision is then made in the anterior wall of the viscus, midway between its curvatures and parallel with the blood-vessels. A finger is inserted and the interior of the stomach explored. The examina- tion of the posterior wall can be facilitated by passing two fingers through a hole made in the gastro-colic omentum and invaginating the back wall of the stomach. The patency of the pylorus may be judged by invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach, or by the finger introduced into the cavity of the viscus. If, when the sphincter is relaxed, the pyloric orifice does not admit of the index finger passing into the duodenum it may be considered to be stenosed. After the exploration is completed the wound in the stomach is closed by a double row of sutures, and the organ returned to the abdomen. Gastrostomy.—The object of this operation is to establish a gastric fistula through which the patient may be fed, for example, in cases of stricture of the oesophagus. To prevent leakage of the stomach contents, and consequent irritation of the skin around the orifice, the operation should be so planned as to make the fistula valvular or tortuous. The operation devised by Witzel yields most satisfactory results in this direc- tion. The stomach is exposed, and an opening just large enough to admit a number 12 English catheter made in the anterior wall about the middle of the presenting portion. Through this opening a flexible rubber tube is introduced so that it projects about an inch into the cavity of the viscus, and is fixed in position by means of a catgut stitch. What may be called an artificial oesophagus is next made by embedding about two or three inches of the tube in the stomach wall. This is done by raising on each side of the tube a fold of the sero-muscular coats of the stomach, and uniting the two folds by a series of Lembert sutures. The part of the stomach from which the rubber tube emerges is then securely fixed to the parietal peritoneum by sutures. Finally, the tube is brought obliquely through the abdominal wound, and this is closed by sutures. The patient is fed by fluids through a funnel introduced into the outer end of the tube, and the first meal may with advantage be given before the patient leaves the operating table. Between meals the tube is occluded by an ordinary clamp or a wooden spill. Great care