603 STONE IN THE BLADDER hamiorrhage, and all three are aggravated by exercise or jolting, and, so long as the bladder is not infected, are relieved by rest in bed. The pain is referred to the perineum or the point of the penis, and is most marked at the end of micturition, when the sensitive neck of the bladder contracts upon the stone. Sudden arrest of the stream from the stone obstructing the meatus, with renewal of the stream on a change of posture, is not a common symptom. If the stone enter the prostatic urethra it may cause retention, or it may only partly obstruct the canal while keeping it open, and so cause incontinence. Hsematuria is rarely a prominent feature; a few drops of bright blood may accompany the last few drops of urine, but in exceptional cases the haemorrhage is as profuse as in vesical new growths, but it ceases promptly when the patient is confined to bed. In children, the irritation of the stone causes them to drag upon the penis, and the prepuce may become elongated. At a varying stage in the history of stone, the features are complicated by the occurrence of septic cystitis. The urine tends to undergo alkaline decomposition, and the stone increases in size by the deposition of phosphates. The symptoms are no longer decidedly relieved by rest, and the patient suffers by night as well as by day. Spasm of the rectum occurs at the end of micturition and often tends to the development of prolapse of the rectum and piles. Septic infection may ascend to the kidneys, causing impairment of the general health and danger to life. Secondary Stone.—Secondary stones are those which develop as a sequel to chronic cystitis in patients who are * unable to empty the bladder completely, and are met with chiefly in the subjects of enlarged prostate. The symptoms characteristic of stone being masked by those of septic cystitis, the possibility of stone is often overlooked. In such conditions stone should be suspected if the urine shows an abundant deposit of phos- phates, if there is pain and haematuria after exertion, and if the cystitis does not yield to treatment. Methods of Examination and Diagnosis.—In any case of suspected stone in the bladder it is essential that an investiga- tion be made of the urine, as this may reveal conditions which should receive treatment before the bladder is explored. In thin subjects and in children it may be possible to feel the stone on recto-abdominal examination, especially under an anaesthetic. In adult males the condition of the prostate should be iuvesti- gated by the rectum. Sounding the Bladder for Stone.—The patient should be