EMPYEMA OF GALL-BLADDER. 469 sionally met with as the result of typlroidal or influenzal infections, they are rarely attended by definite symptoms except when occurring in connection with gall-stones. In recent cases of cholecystitis the gall-bladder may be distended, though rarely to such an extent as to be palpable through the abdominal wall. As the inflammation subsides, the gall-bladder contracts and its walls become thickened, so that if the inflammation recur, the bladder is no longer capable of becoming distended, and it is usually found high up under cover of the liver. Under these conditions tenderness below the costal margin is the only symptom which points to the gall-bladder as the seat of the mischief. From extension of inflammation to the peritoneal coat adhesions are often present. In addition to gall-stones the gall-bladder usually contains thick, ropy mucus, but it may be so contracted that its cavity is practically obliterated. The symptoms are the same as in cholecystitis associated with gall- stones, except that the colic is less severe. Should medical measures fail to give relief, the gall-bladder should be opened and drained till the catarrh disappears. If the cavity of the bladder is almost obliterated, it may be wiser to perform cholecystectomy. In empyema or purulent catarrh the gall-bladder contains pus mixed with mucus. This condition is almost always associated with gall-stones, and in practically every case the cystic duct is obstructed. The size of the gall-bladder depends on the antecedent conditions; it may be small, contracted, and buried beneath the liver as a result of previous attacks of cholecystitis, or it may be so enlarged as to be easily felt, its walls being thickened and adherent to the parietes or to neighbouring viscera. The clinical features vary in different cases. There is often a history of biliary colic. There may be merely pain and tender- ness beneath the costal margin, or there may be a palpable tumour projecting from under the right costal margin and moving with respiration. The swelling is pear-shaped, and is directed towards a point a little below the umbilicus in the middle line. The temperature is usually elevated two or three degrees, but fever may be absent. If the condition is left to itself, the pus may make its way to the surface and erupt on the abdominal wall, giving rise to a fistula which discharges pus and later mucus. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as in simple cholecystitis. If there is a definite tumour the incision is made over it, and if the gall-bladder is found adherent to the parietal