CEREBRAL TUMOURS. 59 When the tumour is sub-cortical, that is in the centrum ovale, there are no Jacksonian spasms, the paralysis is more general, and sensation is lost. There is no special tenderness on per- cussion. It is not always possible, however, to distinguish between cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and in many cases both areas are invaded. Tumours situated in the region of the internal capsule, and in the deeper parts of the brain, are not attended with Jacksonian symptoms, paralysis develops more rapidly than in cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and there is complete loss of sensation on the opposite side of the body. The cranial nerve trunks also are liable to be pressed upon. As the tumour increases in size, all the symptoms become aggravated, the optic neuritis is followed by optic atrophy and blindness, the patient gradually becomes stuporous, and finally death results from coma. The severity of the symptoms depends to a large extent on the rapidity of growth of the tumour; thus an osteoma growing slowly from the inner table of the skull, and implicating the brain, may reach a considerable size without producing cerebral symptoms, while a comparatively small sarcoma or syphilitic gumma of rapid growth may endanger life. A sudden and serious aggravation of symptoms may result from haemorrhage into a soft tumour, such as a glioma. The diagnosis of the pathological nature of a cerebral tumour is generally “ hardly more than a guess ” (Gowers). At the same time it may be borne in mind that syphilitic tumours occur in adults, from forty to sixty years of age, who have suffered from acquired syphilis, and who may present other evidence of the disease. Severe nocturnal pain which interferes with sleep is often a prominent symptom. Syphilitic tumours are generally situated on the surface of the brain, and often originate in the dura mater. They tend to increase somewhat rapidly. Marked improvement in the symptoms usually follows the administration of iodides and mercury, but this is not invariably the case. Tuberculous tumours occur most frequently in children and adolescents, and other signs of tuberculosis are usually present. The cerebellum is a common seat of these tumours, and they are often multiple. Their growth may be rapid at first, and then become arrested for a time. Spasmodic growth of a tumour strongly suggests its tuberculous nature, and superadded signs of basal meningitis confirm the diagnosis. The prognosis is grave in all forms of brain tumour. Even in syphilitic growths, although the more urgent symptoms may be ameliorated by the use of drugs, recurrence is very liable to