•270 THE CHEST. a warm room. He is usually most comfortable when propped up in a sitting or reclining position. Steps are taken to combat shock, but stimulation must be employed with discretion on account of the risk of increasing haemorrhage. If the ribs or sternum be fractured, the treatment already described for these injuries may be employed, unless, as is often the case, the necessary manipulations are contra - indicated by the general condition of the patient. The further treatment will depend upon the symptoms present. In many cases of hcemothorax, for example, no special treatment is required, as the bleeding does not continue long and the effused blood is rapidly reabsorbed; but if the effusion is causing dangerous pressure on the lung, it is advisable to withdraw some of it by aspiration. Care should be taken not to withdraw all the fluid from the chest, lest the rapid expansion of the lung should displace clots or open up the tear in the lung tissue and restart the bleeding. When the heart is embarrassed by the fluid in the pleura, marked benefit usually follows the withdrawal of ten or twelve ounces of blood from the systemic circulation by venesection. When the fluid is not reabsorbed by the end of a fortnight, it may be withdrawn by a fine aspirating needle. By this time the wound in the lung will have healed and the risk of renewed haemorrhage be past. The occurrence of septic infection is an indication for incising the pleura, resecting portions of one or more ribs, and establishing drainage. Pneumo- thorax seldom calls for special treatment. When severe dyspnoea is present, relief may follow the escape of air through a trocar and cannula introduced into the pleura, provided the wound in the lung has healed. Haemoptysis is treated by giving the patient ice to suck and by injecting ergotin or morphin. Surgical emphysema usually disappears spontaneously. In the treatment of penetrating ivounds the primary indications are to arrest external haemorrhage, to purify the wound and remove any foreign bodies which may be present. When the bleeding takes place from a divided intercostal artery, it is usually necessary to enlarge the wound, or even to resect a portion of a rib, to enable the bleeding point to be secured. Sometimes the bleeding can be stopped by passing a ligature round the rib and its accompanying intercostal vessels. Desault’s method of pushing a cul-de-sac of sterilised gauze between the ribs, packing it tightly with strips of lint or gauze, and then pulling upon it, so that the pad thus formed presses upon the bleeding vessel, is sometimes successful. Bleeding from the internal mammary artery can only be arrested by exposing the vessel and securing it by a