DRAINAGE OF BLADDER, 597 sucked along witli the urine down the tube. An average case of suprapubic drainage requires a flow of about four to six pints in twenty-four hours. In urethral or perineal drainage one pint is often sufficient. Irrigation of the bladder for the purpose of cleansing the mucous membrane may be carried out with the apparatus above described—the outflow tube being clamped to allow the fluid (boracic lotion or normal salt solution) in the reservoir to run into the bladder. Another method is to use a glass barrelled syringe provided with a nozzle which readily fits into the mouth of a rubber catheter. Nitrate of silver is the best germicide in septic cystitis, the insoluble chloride which is formed appearing to have a special faculty of inhibiting the growth of organisms; the strength varies from a half to one per cent., and a sufficient amount—about three to five ounces—must be introduced par- tially to distend the bladder; after four or five minutes it is allowed to escape, and to prevent the silver solution coining into contact with the urethra, the bladder is then rinsed out several times with sterilised water before the catheter is withdrawn. Instillation of the bladder — a procedure introduced by Guyon—consists in injecting slowly drop by drop a small quan- tity—15-30 minims—of a more concentrated solution into the neck of the bladder after the organ has been completely emptied. This is carried out by means of a small graduated syringe attached to one of Guyon’s flexible olivary-headed catheters, with a terminal orifice and a very fine bore. Nitrate of silver is used in the strength of from 1 to 5 per cent., or perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000 to 1 in 10,000). The procedure is repeated every alternate day. Drainage of the bladder by an open operation—cystotomy —is rarely called for in uncomplicated cystitis ; it is best carried out by a median incision from the perineum. A staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, an incision about an inch and a half in length is made in the middle line of the perineum extending downwards to about one inch in front of the anus. After dividing the superficial structures the left forefinger nail feels for the groove in the staff as it lies in the membranous urethra, the knife is inserted along the finger nail into the groove in the staff, and is pushed on until its point enters the bladder. The staff is then withdrawn and the forefinger is passed into the bladder to explore its cavity. A tube is then tied in and at- tached to a suction apparatus. The most important element in the treatment of chronic