THE SPINE AND CORD. 82 sistent deformity. The head is flexed and the face turned towards the side opposite the dislocation, the attitude closely resembling that of ordinary wry-neck. The bony displacement is best recognised by palpating the transverse process of the dislocated vertebra. In the case of the upper vertebras this is done from the pharynx, in the lower between the sterno-mastoid and the trachea. There is pain on attempting movement, and tenderness on pressure, particularly on the side which is not displaced, as the ligaments there are on the stretch. There are often radiating pains along the line of the nerves emerging between the dislocated vertebra!. As the bodies are not separ- ated damage to the cord is exceptional. Treatment.—Reduction should be attempted at once, before the vertebra become fixed in their abnormal position. Under anaesthesia, gentle extension is made on the head by an assistant, and the abnormal attitude is first slightly exaggerated to relax the ligaments and to restore mobility to the locked articular processes. The head is then forcibly flexed towards the opposite side, after which it can be rotated into its normal attitude, (Kocher). Haphazard movements to effect reduction are attended with risk of damaging the cord. After reduction has been effected, extension by weight and pulley is applied, and kept on for not less than six weeks. Isolated Fractures of the Arches and Spinous Processes.— These injuries usually result from direct violence, and are accom- panied by bruising of the overlying soft parts, irregularity in the line of the spines, and by the ordinary signs of fracture. They are most common in the lower cervical and in the dorsal regions, where the spines are most prominent and exposed to injury. In many cases there are no symptoms of damage to the cord or spinal nerves, but when both laminae give way the posterior part of the arch may be driven in and cause direct pressure on the cord, or blood may be effused between the bone and the dura. In such cases immediate operation is indicated. When there are no cord symptoms, the treatment consists in securing absolute rest, with the aid of extension, if necessary, for several weeks until the bones are reunited. Isolated Fracture of the Bodies—“Compression Fracture.” —The “compression fracture” consists in a crushing from above downwards of the bodies—and the bodies only—of one or more vertebra;. It is due to the patient falling from a height and landing on the head, buttocks, or feet in such a way that the force is transmitted along the bodies of the vertebrae, while the spine at the same time is flexed.