16 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. It is impossible to consider separately in their clinical aspects injuries of the cranium and injuries of the brain. It seldom happens that one is seriously damaged without the other suffering to a greater or less extent. Sometimes the skull suffers com- paratively little while the brain is severely damaged, but it is very rare fora serious injury to the bone to be unaccompanied by definite brain lesions. In any case it is the damage to the brain, however slight, which gives to the injury its clinical importance. It is an old and a true saying that “ no injury of the head is so trivial as to be despised or so serious as to be despaired of.” Injuries at first sight apparently slight may prove fatal from haemorrhage or sepsis, while, on the other hand, recovery has followed injuries of great severity—for example, the famous “ American crow-bar case,” in which a bar of iron three and a half feet long and one and a half inches thick passed through the head, and yet the patient recovered. It is convenient to consider the injuries of the brain before those of the skull. Concussion and Compression of the Brain. The clinical manifestations of cerebral injury are embraced under the two terms “ concussion ” and “ compression ” of the brain. No true pathological significance attaches to these terms; they are essentially clinical. As the conditions which they indicate do not occur as separate and independent entities, separate descriptions of them are of necessity more or less arbitrary. The symptoms associated with concussion of the brain are to all intents and purposes those of shock, and the term “ cerebral shock ” is sometimes employed as synonymous with concussion. Compression is a general term used to indicate the presence of increased intra-cranial tension from whatever cause resulting —it may be from haemorrhage due to injury, an abscess, or a tumour. The only pathological idea the term conveys is that there is more inside the skull than it can conveniently hold. Concussion of the Brain. — As has been said, a patient suffering from concussion of the brain is practically in a condition of shock —shock induced by violence directly inflicted on the brain tissue. The symptoms characteristic of shock may be the only evidence of injury, or they may accompany such gross lesions as fracture of the skull, or contusion and laceration of the brain. The clinical features vary according to the severity of the violence. In the slightest cases the patient does not lose