HEPATIC ABSCESS. 159 first opened, but on the third or fourth day it may be found to contain pyogenic organisms, and in some cases the amoeba coli. Apart from the tropical variety, abscess of the liver may follow upon suppuration in the biliary passages, or upon any suppurative lesion in the territory of the portal vein, such as may occur, for example, in relation to the stomach or intestine. The clinical features are sometimes remarkably latent. The prominent symptoms are pain, fever, and enlargement of the liver. The pain, which affects the right side and radiates to the shoulder, is chiefly due to perihepatitis, and is most marked when the abscess is near the surface of the organ. The fever is remittent, is attended with rigors and sweating, and may simulate that of malaria or of tuberculosis. The enlargement may affect the whole of the liver, or only a portion of it. If the abscess is near the peritoneal surface, there may be distinct friction accompanying the respiratory movements. A large abscess in the right lobe may bulge the thoracic parietes and displace the diaphragm upwards, and there may be a serous or purulent effusion into the right pleural cavity. The abscess may rupture externally or into one of the adjacent organs. If rupture take place into a bronchus, the pus is expectorated. The risk of exploratory puncture as an aid to diagnosis appears to have been exaggerated, although it is advisable that it should only be employed when everything is ready for operation. Hepatic abscess is to be diagnosed from hydatids, hydro- and pyo-nephrosis, empyema of the gall-bladder, pancreatic cysts, and subphrenic abscess. Treatment.—The abscess should be evacuated and drained without loss of time. If it project below the costal margin, it should be opened by the abdominal route ; and if the liver is not adherent to the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity must be shut off by means of sutures or gauze-packing before the abscess is incised. An abscess which projects towards the upper and back part of the right lobe must be opened by the trans-pleural route. A large drainage-tube is inserted and the cavity of the abscess washed out with salt solution. The drainage-tube is gradually shortened, but is not removed until the cavity is obliterated and the discharge has ceased. Those who have most experience of tropical abscess condemn operation by incision when the abscess is deeply seated, and recommend the method introduced by Patrick Manson, which consists in tapping the abscess with a large trocar and cannula,