THE URINARY BLADDER 602 the patient. A very large stone tends to become fixed by the walls of the bladder contracting upon it, and, when there is chronic cystitis, by granulations springing from the mucous membrane inserting themselves into irregularities on the surface of the stone. A stone is said to be encysted when it lies in a pocket which communicates with the vesical cavity. The encystment of a stone may be due to its partial retention in the ureter, to its passing into, or forming within, one of the pouches of a sacculated bladder, or, the cyst may result from a localised con- traction of the bladder-wall upon the stone; in the latter case the wall of the cyst contains muscle fibres. As an encysted stone does not move about in the bladder, the character- istic symptoms of calculus are usually absent, and it easily escapes detection by the sound, while on bimanual examination it may feel like a tumour. Clinical Features.— Males suffer from stone in the bladder much more fre- quently than females. This is in marked contrast to stone in the kidney, which occurs with about equal frequency in the two sexes. The comparative immunity of women depends partly on the fact that the female urethra permits of the escape of small calculi from the bladder, and partly on their exemption from those forms of chronic cystitis attended with urinary stagnation which lead to the formation of secondary stone. Yesical calculus is comparatively common in boys, but is extremely rare in girls. The symptoms of stone are due in the first place to the presence of the calculus as a foreign body, and in the second place to inflammatory changes in the bladder. A stone with a smooth surface may lie in the bladder for an indefinite period without causing symptoms, and is then said to be latent, while a rough stone such as that composed of oxalate of lime soon attracts attention. A small stone may give rise to as characteristic symptoms as a large one. The classical symptoms are pain, frequency of micturition and Fig. 145.—Hour-glass Stones. (From Sir Patrick Heron Watson’s Collection.)