CHRONIC OBSTRUCTION. 419 and does not residt in emptying the bowel. It is chiefly met with when the obstruction is seated low down in the colon. Between times the patient may feel fairly well and be able to go about. In the majority of cases, as the bowel becomes distended and hypertrophied above the seat of obstruction, the abdomen becomes more and more prominent, and there are frequent rumbling and gurgling sounds in the belly—“stenosis-noises.” In thin subjects individual coils of bowel may be seen to stand out prominently through the abdominal wall, and on palpation exaggerated peristaltic movements may be recognised, the bowel becoming firm and rigid under the examining fingers, the patient at the same time complaining of colicky pains. Distended small intestine may present an arrangement of parallel coils described as of the “ organ-pipe ” or “ ladder ” pattern. When the large intestine is distended the transverse colon and sigmoid flexure are the segments most readily identified in virtue of their characteristic contour and their situation, but they do not show peristaltic movements. If the obstruction is unrelieved, the symptoms become more pronounced and continuous, the patient loses flesh, and becomes cachectic as a result of the absorption of poisonous material from the stagnating and decomposing contents of his intestine. The mouth is foul and the breath most offensive. Finally, death takes place from exhaustion, or from some complication such as perforation of the bowel. Chronic Obstruction terminating acutely.—In a consider- able proportion of cases of chronic obstruction acute symptoms supervene as a result of the narrowed bowel suddenly becoming completely blocked. This may be due to impaction of faecal matter, or to kinking or torsion of the affected segment of the gut sometimes brought about by rapid gaseous distension, by exertion, or by the use of purgative medicines. The occurrence of peritonitis also may bring about the phenomena of complete obstruction. In not a few instances attention has first been called to a malignant stricture of the intestine by the onset of acute obstruction, the patient having previously complained only of vague colicky pains and constipation. Differences in the clinical features behveen obstruction situated in the small and in the large intestines.—There are no distinctions which may be considered as absolute and in- variable (Treves). In both, the clinical features depend more upon the nature of the occlusion than upon its situation. In the case of the small intestine vomiting appears earlier, is more distressing and more persistent, and the vomited matter is more copious and sooner becomes stercoraceous. In the case of