THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 568 In some cases there is a remarkable overgrowth of fat which originates at the hilum, surrounds the calyces, and finally re- places the parenchyma, the kidney being ultimately transformed into a solid lipoma enclosing a cavity—the pelvis — in which the stone is lodged (Fig. 132). When infective processes are superaddcd, there ensue the same changes as have already been described under pyelo- nephritis and pyonephrosis. The perinephric cellular tissue also may become the seat of suppuration and of abscess. The addition of sepsis may result in the deposition of salts upon the existing stone, which may thereby be greatly increased in size. The opposite kidney may remain healthy, and may even undergo hypertrophy to compensate for the loss of function in the diseased organ, but it also is liable to become the seat of stone formation and of infection and suppuration. The clinical features vary widely in different cases. In the absence of sepsis a stone may lie in one of the calyces for years without giving rise to symptoms — latent stone. The symptoms of the septic complications, on the other hand, may so predominate that the existence of stone is not suspected. As a rule, however, the patient seeks advice because of dull aching and weight in the loin, or of recurrent attacks of colic. He rial colic is due to spasmodic contractions of the pelvis and ureter in the attempt to get rid of the stone. It is characterised by agonising pain shooting from the loin to the bladder, testicle, or thigh ; nausea and vomiting, shivering and collapse, with cold perspiration. There may be frequent desire to urinate, with the passage of a little blood-stained urine. There is rigidity of the abdominal muscles on the affected side. The colic may recur at intervals till the stone is passed, or, after one or two attacks, may disappear altogether, the stone settling down, as it were, in the renal pelvis. Apart from colic, the patient may complain of a persistent •boring pain or feeling of weight in the loin, excited or aggravated by exertion, jolting, local pressure, or errors in diet. When asked to indicate the seat of the pain he usually places the tip of his thumb over the end of the last rib. Kenal tenderness is most marked in the region of the hilum, and is best elicited on bimanual examination if the thumb be pressed into the angle between the last rib and the erector spinse at the commencement of expiration. It is exceptional to recognise any enlargement of the kidney. Tenderness of the ureter may sometimes be elicited where this tube crosses the