ANIMAL PARASITES. Gil guinis hominis may be brought to the urinary organs through the blood-stream, and in the course of its attempted elimina- tion through the kidney it may give rise to haematuria and chyluria. The condition is met with in those who have resided in tropical countries. The urine looks like milk or cream, and streaks or clots of blood appear mingled with it. The embryo filarke are found on microscopical examination. The Bilharzia, hcematobia is met with in those who have resided in certain parts of Africa, and especially in Egypt. The parent worm inhabits the portal vein and its tributaries, but after im- pregnation the female buries herself in the submucosa of the renal pelvis, ureter and bladder, where she lays her eggs. These are provided with a sharp terminal spine, by means of which they bore their way through the mucous membrane and gain access to the urine. These processes are attended with hsematuria and sometimes with pain and spasm. The mucous membrane may become the seat of granulations and fungosities, which may partly block the pelvis and ureter. In the bladder, especi- ally if septic infection be superadded, there is an aggravated form of cystitis with a tendency to phosphatic deposit and stone formation. The Echinococcus hominis is responsible for the development of hydatid cysts in the kidney. If these rupture into the pelvis, daughter cysts and booklets may be found in the urine, with the addition of pus when septic infection is superadded. Hydatid cysts do not form in the bladder itself, but when situated in the recto-vesical space, they may cause such difficulty in micturition as to call for surgical interference. Disturbances of the Functions of the Bladder—Neuropathic Affections of the Bladder.—The functions of the bladder are frequently disturbed in affections of the nervous system. Gross lesions of the brain, such as cerebral liEemorrhage, or of the cord, such as may attend fracture of the spine, myelitis, or Pott’s disease, are frequently attended with motor and sensory paralysis of the bladder. The organ is unable to empty itself and becomes over-distended, until the intra- vesical pressure overcomes the sphincter muscle of the urethra, when there is incontinence or dribbling from overflow. This condition, which has been called ischuria paradoxa, predisposes to infection of the retained urine and of the walls of the bladder, hence the measures employed for its relief demand the most rigid exclusion of sepsis. The bladder must either be emptied at regular intervals—every four or six hours—or a catheter tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. In cord lesions the paralysis may affect the motor