259 FOREIGN BODIES. with resulting dysphagia ; the nerve trunks may be pressed upon, causing intense neuralgic pains; the lymphatic glands become infected and break down, and the growth fungates through the skin. The general health deteriorates and death results, usually from septic pneumonia set up by the passage of food particles into the air-passages, from septic absorption, or from haemorrhage. The duration of this form of the disease varies from one to three years. In cases of extrinsic cancer the early symptoms are much more marked, pain and difficulty in swallowing and the secretion of frothy, blood-stained mucus being among the earliest mani- festations. The cervical glands are infected early, sometimes even before there are any signs of laryngeal disease. Difficulty of breathing is also an early symptom on account of the growth obstructing the entrance of air. Tracheotomy may therefore be called for. In other respects the course and terminations are similar to those of intrinsic cancer. Treatment. — This consists in performing a preliminary tracheotomy, and some days later removing the growth. In early and limited cases of intrinsic cancer this may be done by splitting the thyroid cartilage, cutting away the tumour, and closing the larynx again. In more extensive growths a partial, or even a complete, excision of the larynx may be necessary. Cases of extrinsic cancer are less amenable to operation, owing to the early infection of glands and the invasion of adjacent structures. In cases in which excision is impracticable the sufferings of the patient may be alleviated by performing low tracheotomy, and by feeding with the stomach tube or by nutrient enemata. In some cases the difficulty of feeding the patient may make it necessary to consider the question of performing gastrostomy. Sarcoma of the larynx gives rise to the same symptoms as cancer, and can seldom be diagnosed from it before operation. Foreign Bodies in the Air-Passages.—Foreign bodies im- pacted in the pharynx usually consist of large unmasticated pieces of meat or large tooth-plates, and they occlude both the food and the air-passages, frequently causing sudden and fatal suffocation. They are described with affections of the oesophagus. The bodies most frequently impacted in the larynx are small tooth-plates in the case of adults, and buttons, beads, sweets, coins, and portions of toys in children. These are drawn from the mouth into the air-passages during a sudden inspiratory effort, for example, while laughing or sneezing. If the glottis is completely blocked, rapidly fatal asphyxia ensues. If the