476 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. mucus or muco-pus. Less frequently the condition is due to obstruction of the common duct by cancer, impacted stone, adhesions or cicatricial stenosis, and under these circumstances the bladder contains bile. In either case gall-stones may or may not be present. A distended gall-bladder forms a pear-shaped tumour directed downwards and forwards from the right costal margin towards a point in the middle line just below the umbilicus. In the absence of adhesions it is distinctly felt as a smooth, rounded, tense tumour, the lower extremity of which is freely movable from side to side, while the part towards the liver is more fixed and less defined. In a thin patient the swelling can usually be seen to move up and down with respiration. When there are adhesions, the tumour is less defined and more fixed; and when it is inflamed, it is painful and tender on pressure. In some cases the distended gall-bladder is best felt when the patient is in the genu-pectoral position. The co-existence of jaundice with a distended gall-bladder, and the absence of a history of pain such as is usually present in cases of gall-stones, suggest that the distension is due to malignant disease. Diagnosis.—A distended gall-bladder is most apt to be mistaken for a floating kidney. Attention should be directed to the following points :—The gall-bladder tumour is continuous above with the liver; its lower extremity alone is movable, and that only from side to side, and it is always found in the same situation at every examination of the patient. It can be pushed backwards into the belly, but always rises again into its former position. The evidence derived from percussion is not reliable. In stout patients and in those with rigid abdominal muscles it may be necessary to examine the patient under a general anaesthetic. A distended gall-bladder has also to be differentiated from malignant disease of the liver, from hydatids, and from tumours of the pylorus and colon. The treatment depends on the cause of the condition. In the absence of malignant disease it is usual to perform chole- cystotomy, and at the same time to remove the obstruction in the cystic or common duct. When the cystic duct is obliterated, it is best to excise the gall-bladder. When there is obstruction in the common duct which is not capable of being removed, cholecyst-enterostomy is the operation of choice. Primary cancer of the gall-bladder and cystic duct is not uncommon, and is believed to result from the irritation of gall- stones. The walls of the bladder are uniformly infiltrated before