CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. 25 follow such haemorrhages. When the haemorrhages are exten- sive and numerous, symptoms of compression may ensue. This is specially liable to occur when cerebral oedema is superadded. Localised haemorrhages also occur, although less frequently, in the crura cerebri, the pons, the floor of the fourth ventricle, and the cerebellum. In these situations they usually prove fatal by causing rapidly advancing coma and interference with the respiratory and cardiac centres. The temperature immedi- ately rises to 106° or even 108° F., and a modified form of Cheyne-Stokes respiration is present. Still more gross lesions, in the form of distinct lacerations, are comparatively common at the tips of the frontal, temporo- sphenoidal, and occipital lobes, on the surface of the cerebellum, and at the base of the brain. These are usually associated with symptoms of compression in its most typical form. The grey matter is torn and infiltrated with blood-clot, and extensive effusion of blood takes place on to the surface, filling up the sulci, and infiltrating the white matter (Fig. 4). In the case of a compound fracture or penetrating wound, brain matter may be extruded through the opening in the skull. These cases usually prove fatal. The extravasated blood may burst into the lateral ventricles, in which case the pulse becomes small and rapid—130, 160, or even 170. The respiration also is rapid—45 to 60—and greatly embarrassed, and the temperature suddenly rises to 103° or 104° F., and continues to rise till death ensues. Cases are on record in which fatal hamiorrhage has taken place into the brain substance some days, or even weeks, after an injury which at the time was only attended with symptoms of concussion—a point of medico-legal importance. This condition is known as “traumatic apoplexy.” The occurrence of these widespread and variable haemor- rhages is explained by the disturbance of the cerebro-spinal fluid which accompanies an injury of the head. It has already been mentioned that this fluid not only surrounds the brain and fills the ventricles, but that it also permeates its substance in every direction, so that any increase in the tension of the fluid affects, by hydrostatic pressure, every portion of the brain. The momentary depression of the skull caused by a blow on the head suddenly increases the pressure throughout the whole brain, and so may lacerate vessels at any point. Hence it is that the lesion is not always at the seat of impact, but may be at the opposite side of the skull or at other remote points.