282 THE CHEST. efforts in vomiting or during parturition. The jagged end of a fractured rib, and an unskilfully manipulated oesophageal bougie, have also been known to cause this injury. Clinical Features.—So far as the symptoms of injury to the diaphragm can be dissociated from those of the concomitant visceral lesions, they are localised pain, haemorrhage and shock. The pain is aggravated on deep inspiration or coughing, and causes the patient to restrain the action of the muscle as far as possible. Risus sardonicus, which is supposed to be peculiarly related to morbid conditions affecting the diaphragm, may be present. In many cases the abdominal viscera are displaced, and clinical evidence of their presence in the thoracic cavity is forthcoming. When the alimentary canal is ruptured, septic complications ensue. As this muscle never is, and never can be at rest, its wounds either fail to close, or heal with a thin, weak and stretchable cicatrix, which readily favours the formation of a hernial protrusion. When bowel is prolapsed, it is liable to become strangulated either at the time of the accident or later. In many cases the diagnosis is overlooked, and the lesion is only discovered after death. The treatment is covered by that of the associated lesions of the lung, pleura, stomach, or other organs. Suture of the rent from the thoracic side has been practised. Diaphragmatic hernia is described on p. 420. Diaphragmatic pleurisy may closely simulate the onset of acute perforative peritonitis and other abdominal conditions— particularly appendicitis. Perforations of the diaphragm may take place either from the thoracic or abdominal side. An empyema, suppurative pericarditis or mediastinitis, for example, may burst through the diaphragm and infect the peritoneal cavity or the retroperi- toneal connective tissue. When adhesions have formed, the pus may form a subphrenic abscess, or may burst directly into the alimentary canal. On the other hand, a subphrenic abscess may burst into the pleura, the pericardium, or the mediastinum. The Mediastina—Mediastinitis.—Acute suppurative in- flammation of the cellular tissue of the mediastina may be due to infection from a suppurating mediastinal or bronchial gland, to infected wounds of the chest wall, or to the spread of an abscess from adjacent parts, for example, a deep cervical abscess or an empyema. The diagnosis is always extremely difficult and the condition is seldom amenable to surgical treatment. Masses of tuberculous or malignant bronchial glands are