DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 655 The next stage in development is known as the transit or descent of the testis. During the seventh and eighth months the testis passes along the inguinal canal and through the externa] abdominal ring, and by the middle of the ninth month it has usually reached the bottom of the scrotum. Considerable differ- ence of opinion exists as to how this transit is brought about, but it is generally conceded that the structure known as the guber- naculum testis plays an important part in the process. This structure is composed of a central hbrous cord, surrounded by muscular fibres derived from the layers of the abdominal wall, and a tubular sheath of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis. Above, the gubernaculum is attached to the testis, the epididymis, and the vas deferens as they lie on the brim of the pelvis. Its lower attachments are numerous and widespread, the strongest and most important being—(1) to the lower margins of the abdominal muscles in the region of the inguinal canal; (2) to the front of the pubes; (3) to the deep fascia of Scarpa’s triangle near the sphenous opening; (4) to the perineum close by the anus; and (5) to the bottom of the scrotum. It is believed that the transit of the testis is largely due to the traction made upon it by the contractile tissue of the guber- naculum, and particularly by that band which passes to the bottom of the scrotum in relation to the processus vaginalis. When the action of this band predominates the testis passes to its normal position in the scrotum. It may happen, however, that one of the other bands controls the movement of the testis so that it passes into some abnormal position, and constitutes one of the varieties of ectopia testis to be presently described. In considering the congenital abnormalities of the testis, it is necessary to distinguish between those which are due to inter- ference with the development of the gland and its efferent ducts, and those related to its transit from the abdomen to the scrotum! Abnormalities in Development.—The occurrence of more than two testes (polyorchism) is exceedingly rare. The existence of only one testis (monorchism) and the absence of both (anorchism) are also very rare abnormalities, and can only be diagnosed with certainty by dissection. In some cases the epididymis and vas deferens are normally developed while the body of the testis is absent. In a few cases of retained testis the two glands have been found to be fused (synorchisvi). Abnormalities in the Transit of the Testis.—The descent of the testis may be retarded, the child being born with one or both glands still within the abdomen or in the inguinal canal. In the course of a few weeks or months, or it may be not till