695 CHOICE OF AN ANAESTHETIC. patients. If the patient’is very feeble or collapsed, a nutrient enema containing an ounce of brandy may be administered with advantage half an hour before the operation, or the brandy may be given in a similar quantity of water by the mouth. As milk coagulates in the stomach, forming an indigestible mass, it is to be regarded as solid food. In cases of dilatation of the stomach, and of acute intestinal obstruction, it is an advantage to wash out the stomach immediately prior to giving the anesthetic, to prevent the sudden regurgitation of stomach contents which may enter the air-passages. The preliminary administration of one-third of a grain of morphin and one-hundredth of a grain of atropin is sometimes practised, but as a matter of routine it is better avoided, as the symptoms of over-narcosis may be masked by these drugs. It may be of service, however, in operations on the brain or when dealing with alcoholic or maniacal patients. In some cases, and especially where the patient is collapsed before operation, from five to ten minims of liquor strychnin injected hypodermically is of service, and this may be repeated if necessary. Inquiry must be made as to the presence in the mouth of artificial teeth or other loose bodies, such as sweets in the case of children, and pieces of tobacco in male hospital patients; if present they must be removed, as they are liable to fall back into the throat and cause choking. As a rule, it is advisable to place the patient on the operating table before beginning to administer the anaes- thetic, and it is well to allow him to lie in the position in which he is most comfortable; the position can be altered if necessary as soon as he is unconscious. The Choice of the Anaesthetic.—In selecting the anaesthetic for any given case, the following points require to be taken into consideration:—the age and general condition of the patient; the nature and probable duration of the operation; and the position of the patient during its performance. Chloroform and ether mixture is, as a rule, to be preferred in children under five and in adults over sixty. In vigorous adults from eighteen to forty-five, it is advisable to induce anaesthesia with some other anaesthetic than chloroform, as there is some risk during the struggling stage. For this purpose ethyl chloride is well adapted, and it may be followed by chloroform, ether, or a mixture of these according to circumstances. In organic heart disease, if compensation is present, chloroform is often remark- ably well borne; if compensation is failing, CE. mixture should be used, and it is very important to maintain complete anaes- thesia throughout. For patients with renal disease, the choice