572 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. involve the surrounding cellular tissue, and to give rise to perinephric abscess, and this may rupture externally, forming a fistula, which discharges a mixture of pus and urine. With the onset of septic complications the prognosis becomes much more serious. The opposite kidney may become infected through the blood-stream, or death may result from general pyogenic infection, while the mortality of operations for the removal of the stone is increased about ten-fold. The diagnosis from other forms of pyelonephritis and pyo- nephrosis is suggested by the history, and established by skia- graphy. Before recourse is had to operation it is of great importance to determine the functional capacity of the opposite kidney by kryoscopy, and when possible by separate examination of the urine from each kidney. The operative treatment consists in performing nephro- lithotomy with subsequent drainage, or nephrectomy. In all cases attended with pronounced suppuration and destructive changes in the substance of the kidney, with obstruction to the flow of urine into the bladder, and provided the secretory functions of the other kidney are satisfactory, nephrectomy affords the best results. In either operation the wound is left open, being packed from the bottom with iodoform gauze around the drainage-tubes. Bilateral Stone.—The presence of stone in both kidneys, as demonstrated by the X-rays, precludes nephrectomy, even if there be pyonephrosis. Nephro-lithotomy should be performed on the kidney least affected, and, after an interval, on that of the opposite side. Calculous Anuria.—This term refers to the arrest of renal secretion resulting from calculous obstruction. It is nearly always due to the sudden blocking of the ureter in cases in which the opposite kidney is absent or has been destroyed by antecedent calculous disease. It is maintained by some authorities, and notably Israel, that the sudden blocking of the ureter on one side may arrest refiexly the secretion of the opposite kidney, but the trend of opinion is to the effect that only a diseased kidney will stop secreting under reflex nervous influence. The anuria may develop suddenly in persons in apparent good health, it may be after jolting or exertion. It usually affects men after middle life, but has been observed in young children. Renal colic or aching in the kidney recently obstructed is often present at the outset, but disappears when the suppression of the renal secretion is complete. In complete suppression, uraemic symptoms supervene about the seventh or eighth day, and unless