UTERINE FIBROIDS. 499 some years after menstruation lias been established, and in the majority of cases the symptoms only become prominent when the patient is between thirty-five and forty-five years of age. The earliest symptoms are painful menstruation and an excessive How during the period. As the tumour increases the menstrual periods become prolonged, lasting for a week or ten days, and they recur every three or even every two weeks. The patient, therefore, loses a great quantity of blood and becomes markedly anaemic. She loses strength, and suffers from dyspnoea and palpitation. Pain is not a prominent symptom, and in many cases is entirely absent. It is most marked when there are numerous small nodules in the substance of the uterine wall, in which case the patient may complain of grinding, bearing-down sensations, like severe and prolonged labour pains. Women who suffer from fibroids are usually sterile, or are subject to repeated early miscarriages. Pressure symptoms seldom ensue until the tumour blocks the pelvis. Then there is frequency and pain on micturition from the bladder being pushed up behind the pubes towards the abdominal cavity. The ureters also are pressed upon and become dilated, and hydronephrosis not infrequently ensues. Pressure on the rectum seldom results in obstruction of the bowels, but may cause difficulty in defecation and tenesmus, and sometimes leads to the development of haemorrhoids. Pain may result from pressure on the pelvic nerves. Fibroid tumours grow very slowly, in some cases taking ten, fifteen, or even twenty years to reach the size of a uterus at term. They usually cease to grow after the menopause, and either remain quiescent or undergo atrophy. They may be associated with disease in the ovaries and tubes, or with uterine cancer, and they may complicate pregnancy and parturition. The diagnosis is made by a consideration of the history, and by local examination under anaesthesia. The uterus is pulled down by means of tenaculum forceps grasping the cervix, and examined both by the vagina and through the rectum. When the tumour reaches into the abdominal cavity the abdomen has an irregular, nodulated appearance, and on palpation the growth feels densely hard and unyielding. The relation of the tumour to the uterine wall can usually be recognised on vaginal ex- amination. Except when the tumour is subserous and pedun- culated, the cavity of the uterus is enlarged, as may be detected by passing a sound. Treatment.—The majority of uterine fibroids, as they give rise to little discomfort and involve no risk to the life of the