490 PELVIC SWELLINGS IN THE FEMALE. ovary is adherent to the under or anterior aspect of the cyst. The cavity is lined with cylindrical epithelium, which is often ciliated, and contains a clear, limpid fluid. Papillary tumours form a group intermediate between the cystic and the solid growths met with in the ovary. They are due to a proliferation of the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary, or in the Graafian follicles, or in both situations. The tumour may be made up of solid masses of warty or cauliflower-like excrescences springing from the surface of the ovary, and spreading on the adjacent peritoneal surfaces till it fills up and blocks the pelvis; or it may take the form of a large unilocular cyst with papillary growths projecting from its surface as well as into its interior. The rupture of such a cyst is followed by dissemination of the disease over the peritoneum. These growths show a marked tendency to spread by continuity, and are thus locally malignant, but metastasis to distant parts is rare. They are most common in women nearing the meno- pause, and are sometimes bilateral; they usually grow slowly, and are frequently associated with ascites. Complications. — Ovarian tumours are liable to various accidents which modify their clinical course. Inflammation and suppuration, for example, may occur in the cyst, infection taking place from the Fallopian tube, the vermiform appendix, or the intestine. The swelling becomes painful and tender, general symptoms of septic absorption supervene, and if pus form, it may escape either into the general peritoneal cavity or into an adjacent viscus. If the patient recover, it results in the formation of widespread adhesions. Rotation of the pedicle is also liable to occur, interfering with the venous return from the tumour, and causing haemorrhage into the cyst, or even gangrene. This accident is attended with sudden onset of acute pain, pallor and faintness ; the tumour rapidly increases in size and becomes tense and tender. The condition closely simulates the onset of acute intestinal obstruc- tion, symptoms of peritonitis ensue, and if suppuration or gangrene occur, the condition is liable to prove fatal unless promptly treated by operation. Rupture of the cyst may result from gradual thinning of the walls, or from injury or violent contraction of the abdominal walls. In rare cases the rupture implicates a large blood- vessel, leading to serious hemorrhage. More frequently the fluid merely escapes into the peritoneal cavity and is excreted by the kidneys, the patient for a few days passing large quantities of urine. The cyst collapses and forms adhesions to