147 TUMOURS OF SUPERIOR MAXILLA. it becomes softer, assumes a dark violet colour, and if subjected to pressure or irritation may ulcerate and bleed. The true alveolar tumour is to be diagnosed from a mass of redundant granulations such as may form in relation to a carious stump, from an epithelioma of the gum, a tumour of the body of the jaw, or an angioma. The treatment consists in removing the tumour together with a wedge-shaped or quadrilateral portion of the alveolar process from which it grows. The area of bone to be removed is outlined by an incision through the mucous membrane and gum, and the bone is divided with a chisel or saw. After being freely removed these tumours show little tendency to recur and metastasis is very rare. Tumours of the Superior Maxilla. — Sarcomata, are the most common primary tumours of the upper jaw. All varieties are met with, the round or spindle-celled being the most common. Their malignancy is evidenced by the rapidity of their growth, the manner in which they infiltrate adjacent parts, and the frequency with which they recur after removal. They occur at all ages, and have even been met with in children. The clinical features vary according to whether the tumour originates on the outer aspect of the bone, in the maxillary antrum, or behind the bone in the spheno-maxillary or pterygo- maxillary fossa. When the tumour begins in the periosteum covering the front of the bone, it forms a swelling under the cheek, usually in the vicinity of the malar bone. The tumour grows towards the mouth as well as towards the surface. The substance of the cheek is invaded, and in some cases the growth extends into the antrum. In the early stages there is no obstruction of the nasal passage or of the tear duct. There is no dis- placement of the eye or bulging of the palate. When the tumour originates in the interior of the antrum, it first fills the cavity and then bulges its walls in every direction, so that, on pressure being made over the swelling, the osseous shell of the antrum dimples and crackles under the finger. The antrum is dark on transillumination. The tumour may cause obstruc- tion of the nostril on the corresponding side, and epiphora by pressing on the tear duct. The tumour may be seen through the anterior nares, and may be attended with a sanious dis- charge. The eyeball is liable to be displaced upward, and if the ethmoid cells are invaded, it is also pushed outward ; the palate may be depressed and the cheek projected (Fig. 38). When the tumour begins in one or other of the fossa; behind