THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 576 The prognosis is good when the disease is recognised early and is got rid of by nephrectomy ; advanced cases with septic infection and tubercle of the whole genito-urinary tract are unfavourable. Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is the procedure of choice. The fibrous and fatty capsules should be removed along with the kidney, but where adhesions render this impossible the organ is shelled out from its capsule. If there is a perinephric abscess between the parietes and the kidney, it should be emptied in the first instance through a large trocar and suction syringe to avoid flooding the wound with pus. Similarly, if the kidney is found to be merely a bag of pus, it should be emptied in the same way before enucleation. The ureter is stitched in the angle of the wound, or, if diseased, may be removed if the condition of the patient permits. Partial resection of the kidney is not recom- mended. The bladder tubercle tends to get well of itself, although in the female irritability and incontinence may persist for some weeks. If a sinus persist as a result of tuberculous disease of the ureter, this tube should be irrigated with iodoform emulsion, or should be removed at a subsequent operation. When the renal disease is bilateral the kidney which is most affected is opened and drained by nephrotomy, and if subsequent to this the freezing-point of the blood returns to normal, the kidney may be removed. After any operation for renal tuberculosis the patient should be placed under open-air treatment as soon as the shock has passed off, usually at the end of forty-eight hours. We have found this an invaluable addition to our therapeutics. Perinephritis and Perinephric Abscess.—Non-suppura- tive inflammation of the perinephric fat may result in its transformation into a mass of dense fibrous tissue which binds the kidney to the parietal peritoneum, the diaphragm, and adjacent viscera. Should it become necessary for any reason to remove the kidney under these conditions the organ must be shelled out from its fibrous capsule—subeapsular nephrectomy— to avoid injuring the organs to which it is attached. Phlegmonous or suppurative perinephritis results from bacterial infection of the perirenal cellular tissue, and is usually secondary to some septic condition in the urinary tract or to tuberculosis. Less commonly the perinephric tissue is infected by direct or lymphatic extension from other areas of the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, for example, as a sequel to appendicitis, typhoid ulceration, ruptured empyema, psoas abscess, or pelvic cellulitis in women. The abscess seldom surrounds the kidney, as the pus usually