291 MAMMARY ABSCESS. be detected. In the deeper parts of the breast the pus may burrow in various directions and form a multiloculated abscess cavity. Finally the pus finds its way to the surface, usually in the region of the areola, where the skin becomes thin and glazed and ultimately gives way. Occasionally both breasts are affected, either simultaneously or more frequently one after the other. The retro-mammary abscess is usually of the chronic variety, and results from tuberculous disease of the ribs, from suppuration in a hsematoma, or from the bursting of an empyema through the chest wall. The whole breast is pushed bodily forward by the pus behind it, and stands out in bold relief from the chest, and fluctuation can be detected towards the periphery of the gland. If left to point, the pus usually reaches the surface at the most dependent part of the periphery of the breast, the situation varying, of course, with the attitude assumed by the patient. The commonest situation is at the lower and outer part of the breast. Treatment.—A pre-mammary abscess should be opened by a small incision, radiating from the nipple, and drained by means of a few strands of iodoform worsted. As soon as an intra-mammary abscess can be diagnosed with certainty, it also should be incised. As the communication between the deeper part of the abscess and the part which points on the surface is often a long narrow channel, the whole abscess has roughly the shape of a “ collar-stud.” It is not sufficient, therefore, merely to open the superficial part of the abscess. The whole cavity should be freely incised—the in- cisions always radiating from the nipple, to avoid cutting across the ducts—and counter-openings should be made, if necessary, to ensure efficient drainage. The finger should be passed into the abscess and the septa broken down. After clearing out all pus and sloughs, glass or rubber drainage tubes are inserted. These should be removed as early as possible to prevent the formation of persistent sinuses. If bleeding is troublesome, the wound should be packed. If sinuses have formed, they should be slit up, scraped, purified with pure carbolic acid, and packed with iodoform worsted. In some cases the breast is so com- pletely disorganised that complete removal is the only efficient means of treatment. A retro-mammary abscess should be opened at the lower and outer part of the breast. Chronic Non-tuberculous Abscess.—A chronic non-tubercu- lous abscess is occasionally met with in the breast of married