ULCERS OF THE STOMACH. 399 of the visceral peritoneum, and so open into the general peritoneal cavity, or it may take place at a point where the stomach has formed adhesions to the surrounding viscera, and give rise to a localised peritonitis or to a perigastric abscess. When the perforating ulcer is on the posterior wall of the stomach, it usually opens directly into the lesser sac of the peritoneum. Clinical Features.—There may be a history that the patient has previously suffered from symptoms of gastric or duodenal ulcer, but in many cases the occurrence of perforation is the first indication of any gastric affection. The patient is suddenly seized with intense, cramp-like pain in the epigastrium, so severe at first as to cause her to writhe in agony. There is a variable, but usually considerable degree of shock, the pulse becomes small, soft and feeble, and varies in rapidity from 100 to 110. The temperature is subnormal, and the skin cold and pallid. Vomiting is more often absent than present. Palpation of the abdominal wall elicits tenderness, particularly in the region of the epigastrium, and the maximum point of tenderness usually corre- sponds fairly accurately to the site of the perforation. At this point there is sometimes a localised fulness. There is marked rigidity of the abdominal muscles, and the abdomen does not move with respiration. On percussion a uniform, tense, drum- like note is elicited all over the abdomen, and the area of liver dulness is usually diminished or lost. The severity of these symptoms varies, being least marked when a small perforation is surrounded by adhesions or opens into the lesser peritoneal sac, and when the stomach is empty at the time the perforation occurs. In the course of one or two hours reaction comes on, and the severity of the symptoms abates somewhat. The pain and tenderness are less marked, the pulse improves, the face becomes slightly flushed, and the patient both looks and feels better. The rigidity and immobility of the abdomen, however, usually persist. This temporary improvement is most marked when the perforation is small, when it opens among adhesions or into the lesser peritoneal sac, and when the stomach was empty at the time it occurred. It may be so marked that the patient is able to move about and to take nourishment without apparent discomfort. It is often misleading, as it suggests that the initial pain was of the nature of colic. Sooner or later—usually within three or four hours of the perforation—the symptoms again become alarming, and are those of septic peritonitis. The pain returns, and, although less severe than at first, is more generalised over the abdomen. The pulse