46 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. even to introduce a drainage tube. Adhesions may form between the brain and the dura mater over the point at which an abscess is opened, and may subsequently give rise to Jacksonian epilepsy. Sinus Phlebitis and Thrombosis. — The anatomical con- struction of the cerebral sinuses, and the conditions of the circu- lation in them, tend to retard the blood flow and so to favour coagulation. Two forms of sinus thrombosis are met with—the marasmic and the bacterial. The bacterial form alone will be described here, as the marasmic form is of little surgical importance. Bacterial phlebitis and thrombosis are due to the spread of organisms from a local focus of suppuration, and most commonly affect the lateral sinus. Any of the general sources of intra- cranial infection may be the starting-point of this condition, but by far the most frequent is middle ear suppuration. The organisms may reach the sinus directly by continuity of tissue, as, for example, when the lateral sinus becomes infected from a focus of suppuration in the mastoid process, or they may reach it by the spread of thrombosis in a tributary vein, for example, when the longitudinal sinus is infected from an anthrax pustule of the lip which has caused thrombosis of the emissary vein which passes through the foramen caecum. The soft clot which forms adheres to the inflamed wall of the sinus, and, being infected with pyogenic bacteria, soon undergoes purulent disintegration. The thrombotic process may spread backward along tributary vessels, and so give rise to cerebral or cerebellar abscess, or to purulent meningitis, or it may spread into the internal jugular vein and lead to the development of a diffuse purulent cellulitis along its course. General pysemic infection may take place by the pus or bacteria passing in the blood-stream, either directly or by reversed flow through tributary veins. The organisms may also spread through the vessel walls into neighbouring lymphatics. Septic emboli are liable to lodge in the lung or pleura and set up pulmonary abscess, gangrene of the lung, or empyema. Clinical Manifestations of Intra-cranial Infection. At the bedside there is often great difficulty in discriminat- ing between the various diseases which result from pyogenic infection, partly because many of the symptoms presented by the patient are common to all the diseases of this group, but still more because the different conditions are not infre-