549 FLOATING KIDNEY. it is aggravated by standing, walking and exertion, and is usually, but not always, relieved by lying down. Sometimes there are painful crises like renal colic, which last for several hours and are attended with shivering, vomiting, and pain down the ureter. During these attacks the kidney is tender and sometimes enlarged, and the amount of urine is diminished ; after the attack the secretion of urine exceeds the normal. These attacks are believed to be due to torsion of the pedicle of the kidney, and especially to kinking or twisting of the upper end of the ureter, because it is usual to have a history of such attacks in cases of movable kidney which terminate in hydro- nephrosis. The irritation of vaso-motor and sensory nerve fibres in the pedicle is probably a factor in producing these phenomena. Physical Examination.—If the kidney is displaced at the time of examination, a tumour is felt in the abdomen which corresponds in size and shape to the kidney, and which is easily replaced in the kidney recess. Although usually found on the same side of the abdomen as that to which the kidney belongs, it may be found on the other side. We have ourselves observed the right kidney engaged in the brim of the pelvis and easily felt per rectum. If the kidney is not displaced at the time of examination, it can usually be brought down by the patient taking a series of deep respirations, while the abdominal muscles are relaxed by flexing the trunk and the hips. At the end ol the first inspiration the examiner’s fingers are pushed in simul- taneously from the front below the costal margin and behind, and with each successive expiration they are pushed in more deeply until the maximum displacement is brought about. Three degrees of mobility may be recognised : a first in which the lower pole of the kidney can be grasped between the fingers towards the end of a deep inspiration; a second in which the greater part or the whole of the organ can be grasped, but ascends again during expiration ; and a third in which the whole kidney descends below the examining lingers and can be retained in this position during and after expiration, or can be moved about in the abdominal cavity. If the examination is negative in the dorsal position, it should be repeated with the patient lying on the healthy side, or in the knee-elbow attitude. The first degree of mobility may be difficult to recognise in thick set and stout individuals. It may be possible to recognise the mobility on some occasions and not on others; hence the necessity of more than one examination if the first is negative. The diagnosis of floating kidney from other abdominal tumours