239 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGI!. Impaction of Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus.—Foreign bodies, such as imperfectly masticated portions of meat, frag- ments of bone, coins, pins, or artificial tooth-plates, are frequently impacted in the pharynx or in the oesophagus. For obvious reasons the accident is most liable to occur in children, lunatics, and those who are under the influence of alcohol. It some- times happens also during the administration of anaesthetics, if the patient vomits solid substances. The object is most likely to lodge at one or other of the points where the tube is normally constricted. Clinical Features.—When the object is bulky or of irregular shape, for example, a bolus of unmasticated food or a large tooth- plate, it is most likely to lodge in the pharynx, blocking the openings of both the oesophagus and the larynx, and giving rise to sudden, and it may be rapidly fatal, suffocation. The patient is immediately asphyxiated, the face becomes blue and engorged, and violent efforts are made to eject the object by retching and coughing. The object can usually be seen through the mouth, and touched with the finger. Smaller bodies, such as coins, bones, or pins, usually enter the oesophagus. The patient has sudden pain at the point of im- paction, which is increased on attempting to swallow, the face becomes congested, and severe retching and coughing are set up. The respiration is not necessarily impeded. Even after the foreign body has been ejected, the patient has for some consider- able time the sensation that it is still present. This may be due to a scratch of the mucous membrane, in which case the swallow- ing of a few drops of cocain solution will cause the sensation to disappear, or it may be due to spasm set up by the irritation. The position of foreign bodies in the oesophagus may be determined by external palpation, or by the careful use of an olive-headed metal bougie. The obstruction to the passage of food may be partial or complete, according to the shape of the body and the manner in which it is impacted. Irregular bodies, such as tooth-plates, may become fixed by sharp edges or hooks piercing the mucous membrane, and may lie in such a way that they arrest solids but allow fluids to pass. Valuable informa- tion may sometimes be obtained as to the shape, site and mode of impaction by the use of the Rdntgen rays. The impaction of foreign bodies may be followed by various complications, for example, ulceration and perforation of the wall of the oesophagus, leading to septic cellulitis of the neck or mediastinum ; perforation of the air-passages, leading to septic pneumonia; injury of the thyroid gland, setting up acute sup-