STRICTURE. 641 cellular tissue, leading to cellulitis, abscess, and sometimes to gangrene. As a result of the destructive septic process the wall of the urethra is opened into, and extravasation of urine takes place, very much after the same fashion as in a septic wound a .blood-vessel is opened into leading to secondary haemorrhage. It was formerly believed that such extravasation was due to the urethra having burst as a result of violent efforts to pass water, but there is no proof of this, the evidence pointing to the extravasation being always preceded by an infective peri- urethritis. The urine leaks out drop by drop, and not in the form of a sudden gush, as is the case when the urethra is ruptured. The bladder frequently shows hypertrophy with fasciculation and pouching of its walls, and this may be followed by atrophy and over-distension. In other cases, as a result of the almost inevitable septic infection and irritability of the organ, it may be contracted and of small capa- city. The ureters and kidneys show the effects of backward pressure; the renal functions suffer as a result of chronic in- terstitial nephritis, and septic infection of the renal pelvis and kidney — pyelonephritis and pyonephrosis — is a frequent cause of death (Fig. 148). Clinical Features.—The first thing to attract the attention of the patient is that the stream of urine diminishes in size and in force, and that he has some difficulty in starting the act. In some cases undue frequency of micturition is the first symptom complained of. The act of micturition is pro! onged, is attended with straining, and urine trickles through the stricture after the effort is completed and wets the clothing. Twisting; or forking of the stream is an inconstant and uncertain feature. A slight muco-purulent discharge from the meatus, due to the associated urethritis, is very common, and may have persisted from the VOL. II—41 Fig. 148.—Stricture of Urethra com- plicated by Chronic Septic Cystitis, and followed by pyonephrosis which caused death.