THE KIDNEY AND URETER, 548 ages of twenty and forty, and is about twelve times more fre- quent on the right than on the left side. In some cases the mobility is bilateral. The most important factor in the causation of abnormal renal mobility would appear to be an inherited and congenital peculiarity in the anatomical relations of the kidney. This is evidenced by the frequency of the condition in certain families, its association with congenital anomalies in the shape of the kidney, and in the origin of the renal vessels, and the faulty formation of the niche or pocket in which the kidney lies. It is such congenitally dis- posed kidneys which become prolapsed and abnormally mobile from such determining or exciting causes as : (1) diminution in the intra-abdominal pressure from loss of tone in the abdominal muscles, emaciation with loss of the perirenal fat, repeated preg- nancies, or the removal of large abdominal tumours ; (2) altera- tions in the shape of the thorax produced by tight lacing; and (3) the disturbance of parts by falls on the feet or buttocks, violent gymnastics, and the lifting of heavy weights. When normally formed individuals are subjected to similar influences they do not tend to develop abnormal renal mobility. Secondary Changes in the Displaced Kidney.—As it descends, in virtue of its pedicle the organ as a whole swings towards the middle line, and at the same time it rotates so that the upper pole moves forwards. The latter movement causes traction on the pedicle, and tends to bring about torsion or kinking of the renal vessels and of the ureter. Being fixed by the peritoneum, the ureter does not readily follow the kidney in its descent, and any alteration in its direction may interfere with the outflow of urine from the pelvis and induce hydronephrosis. As a result of inflammatory attacks, the organ may become fixed by ad- hesions in its abnormal position. The normal congestion of the kidney which accompanies menstruation is usually exaggerated. The clinical features are subject to wide variations, and are not proportionate to the degree of abnormal mobility. In many cases there are no symptoms, and the condition is discovered accidentally in the course of an examination of the abdomen. In other cases the chief complaint is of vague abdominal pains, accompanied by symptoms which may be included under the term neurasthenia, and in some the patient only complains of symptoms after having been told that she is the subject of float- ing kidney. It is only in a minority of cases that there are symptoms directly referable to the renal displacement. These consist in [tain and dragging sensations in the loin and on one side of the abdomen. The pain may shoot down the thigh,