THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 654 It joins the other elements of the spermatic cord at the upper end of the epididymis, and after traversing the inguinal canal and entering the internal abdominal ring turns downwards into the pelvis. After running along the side of the bladder it reaches the base of the prostate gland, and is there joined by the duct from the corresponding seminal vesicle, the two forming the common ejaculatory duct, which after traversing the prostate gland opens into the floor of the prostatic urethra. The spermatic cord extends from the testis to the internal abdominal ring. It is made up of the vas deferens—which lies towards the back of the cord, and is accompanied by the small artery to the vas, the spermatic artery which lies in front of the vas, and. the cremasteric artery which ramifies in the superficial structures of the cord. The veins of the cord are arranged in two bundles, the larger of which—the pampiniform plexus—accompanies the spermatic artery, while the smaller lies farther back and accompanies the artery to the vas. The cord also contains the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, twigs from the sympathetic, and numerous lymphatics. These various elements are held together by a quantity of connective tissue, and are enclosed in the coverings of the cord. The coverings of the testis and cord are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall during the transit of the testis : the inter-columnar fascia, a fibrous sheath prolonged from the edges of the external abdominal ring ; the cremaster muscle and fascia, composed of loops of muscular tissue prolonged from the lower, free edge of the internal oblique ; and the infundibuliform fascia, a funnel-shaped process con- tinuous with the margins of the internal abdominal ring. The testis has, in addition, a serous covering—the tunica, vaginalis—originally derived from the peritoneum ; one layer—the visceral—covers the outer aspect of the testis ; the other—the parietal—lines the inner aspect of the infundibuliform fascia. Between the two layers is a serous space, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Congenital Abnormalities.—Development. — The testis is developed from a mass of embryonic tissue — the genital eminence—which lies in front and to the inner side of the Wolffian body. As the genital eminence increases in size the Wolffian body diminishes and ultimately becomes the epididymis, its duct—the Wolffian duct—becoming the vas deferens. The testis, epididymis, and vas are therefore developed from three separate and distinct structures. Hence it comes that any one or all of them may be congenitally absent. In the foetus the testis and epididymis, separated from one another by a narrow sulcus, lie in the extra-peritoneal tissue below and behind the permanent kidney. The Wolffian body is furnished with a fold of peritoneum which eventually becomes the mesorchium in which run the spermatic vessels. As the foetus increases in length the space between the kidney and the testis is increased, and by the end of the sixth month the testis has come to lie near the brim of the pelvis.