CLINICAL FEATURES OF APPENDICITIS. 345 Clinical Features.—It should be stated at the outset that it is not always possible to identify cliuieally the different anatomical lesions above described, or, before opening the abdomen, to distinguish between the catarrhal, the perforative, and the gangrenous forms of appendicitis. For purposes of description we may differentiate the following clinical types :— (1) those cases in which the phenomena depend chiefly on inflammation of the appendix itself ; (2) those in which there is peri-appendicular peritonitis with swelling or abscess forma- tion ; and (3) those complicated by diffuse peritonitis. Cases in which the Clinical Phenomena are dependent on Inflammation of the Appendix itself. —These include the mild forms in which the symptoms are referable rather to the reflex phenomena of peritonism than to actual peritonitis. The patient is seized with abdominal pain, which is usually referred to the umbilicus, followed by nausea and vomiting, and some- times by diarrhoea; and the temperature rises two or three degrees. On examination of the abdomen there may be some general tenderness, but the pain and tenderness soon become localised to the right iliac fossa, and are most marked in the region of M‘Burney’s point. The tenderness prevents palpa- tion, but even under an anaesthetic nothing abnormal can be felt. In the course of from twenty-four to thirty-six hours these symptoms subside, and the patient becomes quite well, except for a little tenderness in the region of the appendix. Such attacks are very liable to recur at irregular intervals, constituting what is known as recurrent appendicitis. Appendicitis associated with Peri-Appendicular Peritonitis and Inflammatory Swelling. — The onset of the illness is attended with symptoms similar to those above described. There is, however, more decided general illness with a definite rigor, considerable fever, rapid pulse, and vomiting. The bowels are constipated and no flatus is passed. The abdominal wall in the region of the right iliac fossa does not move with respiration, and is rigid and excessively tender to touch, both on superficial and on deep palpation. It is at first impossible to infer the nature or extent of what is obviously a peritonitis, but in the course of a day or two the severity of the illness abates, the signs of peritoneal reaction become localised, and, if the rigidity of the abdominal wall has yielded sufficiently to allow of palpation, a swelling can be recognised in the right iliac fossa. This swelling, which is roughly discoid in shape, and varies in diameter from two to four inches, is not movable, and is tender to the touch. If