INJURIES. 553 clots in its interior, so that when the patient desires to urinate he is unable to pass anything, or only a few clots, in spite of severe and painful straining. In cases which recover, the liEematuria lasts for from two to five days. In severe injuries the haemorrhage, may be very profuse; it aggravates the shock and causes increasing bloodlessness which may terminate fatally. Later or recurrent haematuria is due to the breaking down of clots either as a result of admixture of urine or of septic changes. Swelling in the loin, due to perirenal extravasation of blood or of blood and urine, is present in most cases in which the kidney is actually ruptured; it is diffused over the loin, is hard, fixed, and very sensitive. When the haemorrhage is abundant the swelling forms early, and as it increases it is accompanied by an aggravation of the bloodless state. Haemorrhage into the renal substance, if the capsule remains intact, may be recognised by increase in the size of the kidney, forming a circumscribed, rounded, and mobile swelling which may be palpated and moved on bimanual examination. If the peritoneum is torn, the blood pours into the peritoneal cavity, a condition which may be recognised by increasing dull- ness in the dependent parts of the belly, together with increasing anaemia and shock. Death usually results from shock or from septic peritonitis. Diminution or suppression of the urinary secretion is a rare complication and is due to direct interference with the injured kidney, aided by the bloodless state and shock. It may be a cause of death. Septic Infection is the chief danger in cases which do not succumb to shock, haemorrhage, or suppression of urine during the first forty-eight hours. The septic changes may affect the kidney itself, but more frequently they occur in the blood and urine extravasated into the perirenal tissues. They may appear within a few days or may be delayed for weeks or even months. They have been observed to follow the use of an imperfectly sterilised catheter. Their occurrence is attended with a rigor and irregular fever, and with increased size and greater tenderness of the swelling in the loin • the urine is diminished in amount and often contains pus. In cases which occur early, the perirenal suppuration assumes the character of a diffuse suppurative cellulitis, the pus and decomposing urine surrounding the rup- tured and inflamed kidney; in later cases the suppuration is encysted by reaction of the surrounding tissues, constituting a localised abscess. When infection spreads up from the- bladder it may also involve the opposite kidney.