CIRSOID ANEURYSM. 7 Rodent cancer may originate on the scalp, but usually spreads thither from the face. In operating for extensive tumours of the scalp the haemorrhage is sometimes very formidable. It may sometimes be controlled by an elastic tourniquet applied horizontally round the head, or if, on account of the position of the tumour or from other causes, this is not practicable, by ligature or temporary clamping of the external carotid on one or on both sides. Skin-grafting is often useful in covering in the defect left after the removal of these tumours. Air-containing Swellings.—Pneumatocele Capitis.—A num- ber of cases have been recorded where, as a result of pathologi- cal or traumatic perforations of the mastoid, and less frequently of the frontal cells, air has passed under the pericranium, and has given rise to a small rounded tumour, resonant on percussion, and capable of being emptied by firm pressure. Such swellings are painless, and, as they give rise to almost no inconvenience, do not call for treatment. Emphysema of the scalp may follow fractures implicating any of the air sinuses of the skull, the air infiltrating the loose cellular tissue between the pericranium and the aponeurosis, and on palpation yielding the characteristic crepitation. It usually dis- appears in a few days. Vascular Tumours.—Ncevi may occur on the scalp, where they present the same features as on the face. If placed over one of the fontanelles, they may derive a pulsation from the dura. Cirsoid aneurysm is met with in the course of the temporal artery, and may involve the greater part of the scalp. Large, distended, tortuous, bluish vessels are seen and felt pulsating synchronously with the heart. They can be emptied by pressure, but fill uji again at once on removal of the pressure. Ulceration of the skin over the dilated vessels, leading to fatal luemorrhage, may take place. The patient complains of dizziness, headache, and a persistent rushing sound in the head. They may be treated by excision, after dividing and ligaturing the larger vessels entering the swelling. Ligature of the main afferent vessels, or of the external or common carotid, has not been attended with much success. In some cases electrolysis has yielded good results. Traumatic aneurysm of the temporal artery was comparatively common in the days when arteriotomy was in vogue. Aneurysmal varix, varicose aneurysm, and cirsoid aneurysm may also occur in the course of the temporal artery.