SPINA BIFIDA. 101 Retention of urine accompanies the onset of paralysis, and later gives place to incontinence. The rectum becomes paralysed, and cystitis and trophic sores develop. Many of these nervous symptoms are due to superadded myelitis. Anti-syphilitic treatment should be employed in the first instance to exclude the possibility of the lesion being of the nature of a gumma. In deciding where the spinal canal is to be opened, it is to be borne in mind that the lesion is always two or three segments higher than the pain would appear to indicate. In cases where the tumour cannot be removed by operation the prognosis is hopeless, and the patients usually die in from one to two years from respiratory or septic complications. Congenital Deformities of Spine. Spina Bifida.—Spina bifida is a congenital defect in certain of the vertebral arches which permits of a pro- trusion of the spinal membranes, with or without the nerve structures. It is due to an arrest of development, whereby the closure of the primary medullary groove and the ingrowth of the mesoblast to form the spines and laminae fail to take place. The cleft may implicate only the spinous processes, but as a rule the laminae also are deficient. The defect usually extends over several vertebrae (Fig. 22). While the protrusions vary much in size, there is no constant ratio between the dimensions of the swelling and those of the cleft in the spine. The condition is comparatively common, being met with in about one out of every thousand births. It is most frequent in the lumbar and sacral regions, but occurs also in the cervical (Fig. 23) and dorsal regions. It is not uncommon to find spina bifida associated with other congenital deformities such as club-foot or extroversion of the bladder. Varieties.—Four varieties are usually de- scribed according to the character of the protrusion. They are analogous, to a certain extent, to the varieties of cephalocele. Fig. 22.—Spina Bi- fida. Note defici- ency of arches of several lumbar vertebrae. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edin- burgh.) (l) Spinal