THE PERITONEUM. 324 Hanks or in other dependent parts of the abdomen may be due to an accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, but it may also be caused by coils of small intestine filled with fluid faeces. Fluid collections in the pouch of Douglas may be felt through the rectum or vagina. Fibrinous exudation may cause rough friction, especially over the liver. As the disease progresses, the patient presents more and more the general features of septic poisoning; the face and extremities become cold and cyanosed from defective circula- tion and imperfect aeration of the blood; the intellect may become dulled by increasing toxaemia, but as a rule the patient remains conscious to the last, sometimes ceasing to complain el- even expressing himself as feeling better. In cases which recover, the general symptoms improve before the local, the pain and vomiting become less aggressive, and the bowel recovers its functions, and there is passage of flatus and later of faeces. The local phenomena gradually disappear, or may become localised to the region of the organ primarily affected, and terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. Diagnosis.—It is often difficult to differentiate between a localised and a diffuse peritonitis, as in the former the onset may be attended with symptoms of irritation of the peritoneum as a whole. This cpiestion is chiefly of importance in relation to peritonitis originating in the appendix, and will be considered •with appendicitis. It may also lie difficult to differentiate between peritonitis and intestinal obstruction, especially if the patient only comes under observation in the stage in which there is regurgitant vomiting of foul-smelling fluid. In obstruction uncomplicated by peritonitis the pain is more spasmodic and griping in character, there are intervals during which the patient is free of pain, and tenderness is limited to the area of obstruction. The abdominal wall is more yielding, the distension is localised to one region, individual coils of intestine may be evident, and may show peristaltic movements, gurgling and other noises in the bowels are more noticeable, and it is often possible to give some relief to the patient by emptying the lower bowel by enemata. It must be remembered, however, that inasmuch as the damage to the wall of the gut resulting from obstruction renders it permeable to organisms and toxins within the bowel, intestinal obstruction tends sooner or later to become com- plicated by peritonitis. Biliary and renal colic may simulate peritonitis, but there is