182 CHAPTER XIV. THE EAR. Surgical anatomy. Cardinal Symptoms of Ear Disease : Impair- ment of hearing ; Tinnitus aurium ; Earache ; Giddiness ; Discharge —Hearing tests — Inspection of ear — Inflation of middle ear. Affections of External Ear: Deformities; Hcematoma auris; Epithelioma and rodent cancer ; Impaction of ivax ; Eczema ; Boils ; Foreign bodies. Affections of Tympanic Membrane and Middle Ear : Rupture of membrane ; Acute inflammation of middle car; Chronic suppuration ; Suppuration in the mastoid antrum and cells. Surgical Anatomy.—The anatomical subdivision of the ear into three parts—the external, middle, and internal ear—forms a satisfactory basis for the study of ear lesions. The outer ear consists of the auricle and external auditory meatus, the latter being made up of an outer cartilagin- ous portion half an inch in length, and a deeper osseous portion three- quarters of an inch long. The canal forms a curved tube, which can be straightened to a considerable extent for purposes of examination by pulling the auricle upwards and backwards. It is closed internally by the tympanic membrane, which separates it from the tympanic cavity or middle ear. The middle ear includes the tympanum proper, which is crossed by the chain of ossicles—malleus, incus, and stapes—the Eustachian tube, which communicates with the naso-pharynx, and the mastoid antrum and cells. As these cavities lie in close relation to the floor of the middle cranial fossa, inflammatory conditions in the tympanum and mastoid cells are liable to spread to the interior of the skull. The internal ear or labyrinth lies in the petrous part of the temporal bone, its outer boundary being the inner wall of the middle ear. Physiologically the different parts of the auditory mechanism may be divided into (1) the sound-conducting apparatus, which includes the outer and middle ears ; and (2) the sound-perceiving apparatus—the internal ear and central nerve tracts. Impairment of hearing may be due to causes existing in one or other or both of these subdivisions. The condition of the sound-conducting apparatus can be investigated by direct inspection through the speculum, and by inflation of the Eustachian tube and tympanum, while that of the sound-perceiving apparatus is ascer- tained partly by testing the hearing, and partly by excluding affections of the outer and middle ear. When the sound-conducting apparatus is at fault, the resulting deafness is spoken of as “obstructive” ; when the sound-perceiving apparatus is affected, the term “nerve deafness” is used.