KRYOSCOPY. 545 fleeting sun or electric light. The ureteral orifice is searched for and tested with a probe before the catheter is introduced. The procedure is repeated on the opposite side. Methods of Testing the Adequacy of the Excretory Functions of the Kidney.—Of these methods, which are of comparatively recent introduction, the best known is kryoscopy, or the estima- tion of the f reezing-point of the blood. The introduction of this procedure is chiefly due to the influence of Koranje, while its merits have been especially advocated by Kummell. The freezing-point is determined by Beckmann’s apparatus. The greater the concentration of a fluid, the lower is its freezing- point, that of distilled water being reckoned as zero. Provided the excretion by the kidneys is maintained at the normal standard, the freezing-point of the blood remains constant, the average being '56° Celsius. When both kidneys are diseased, there is diminished excretion, the blood becomes more concentrated and its freezing-point is lowered, while the urine becomes less concentrated and its freezing-point raised. When one kidney is extensively diseased, and the other only slightly affected, the concentration of the blood may not be altered, provided the healthier kidney is able to perform the excretory functions of both. Disease confined to one kidney does not affect the con- centration of the blood. In practice, therefore, it may be assumed that a normal freezing-point of the blood (-56° Celsius) indicates that the renal affection is confined to one kidney, and that removal of that kidney may be undertaken with the assurance that the remaining kidney will be able to perform the work of both. On the other hand, if the freezing- point falls to -6° Celsius or lower, removal of the diseased kidney may be fraught with serious danger from uraemia. The freezing- point of the urine, especially of the urine obtained separately from each kidney by the ureteral catheter, affords corroborative informa- tion as to their respective excretory capacities. Kryoscopy is of great value in the diagnosis of renal affections, in helping to decide the nature of the operative interference, and in forming a pro- gnosis in many diseases affecting the urinary organs as a whole. Operations on the Kidney and Ureter.—Nephrotomy implies exposure and incision of the kidney, usually from the loin; pyelotomy, incision of the renal pelvis. If the incised kidney is kept open by packing or tubes for purposes of drainage, the procedure is called a nephrostomy. Ureterotomy implies the exposure and incision of the ureter. The exposure and fixation of a movable kidney is known as nephropexy or nephroraphy. Resection of the kidney refers to the removal of a portion of the VOL. II—35