PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 343 omentum and the adjacent parts of the small and large intestine and their mesenteries, and they play a considerable part in the formation of the swelling in the right iliac fossa, which is one of the clinical signs of the disease. If the process be arrested at this stage, complete recovery may take place, the inflammatory products disappear, and the parts return to their normal condition. Peri-appendicular abscess, or circumscribed suppurative peritonitis represents a less successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to overcome the infection. It may follow on the adhesive form, the sero-fibrinous exudation undergoing a purulent transformation, but more commonly it results from a perforation of the appendix which has been preceded, or is immediately followed, by the formation of limiting adhesions. At first the abscess is confined to the immediate vicinity of the appendix itself, and contains a small quantity of thick greenish pus having a faecal odour. The disease may be arrested at this stage and recovery take place. More frequently the abscess increases in size, or several small collections of pus coalesce and form a large abscess. The abscess is walled in by the peritoneum of the iliac fossa, the caecum, the lower coils of the ileum, and the great omentum matted together by adhesions. If the abscess extend forwards, its anterior wall comes to be formed by the parietal peritoneum. The appendix may hang free in the abscess cavity; more frequently it is buried in the purulent lymph forming the wall of the abscess ; and in rare cases it sloughs off from the caecum and lies loose in the pus. The situation of the abscess varies with the position of the appendix. It is most often situated in the right iliac fossa to the inner side of the caecum, but not infrequently it is found to the outer side of or behind the caecum, or in the pelvis. Sometimes it lies nearer the umbilicus, and, in the case of a very long appendix, or an unduly movable caecum, may actually be found in the left iliac fossa. The aibscess may extend in an irregular manner, the original limiting adhesions melting away, while fresh adhesions form beyond the spreading margin. It is possible to have several distinct purulent collections separated from one another by adhesions. The abscess may spread to a considerable distance from its seat of origin, for example, upwards along the ascending colon to the diaphragm, where it constitutes one form of subplirenie abscess, or downwards into the true pelvis, the pus collecting between the rectum and bladder in the pouch of Douglas. The pus may open into one of the hollow organs— caecum, rectum, or bladder. It is by no means uncommon to find a collection of pus in the pouch of Douglas completely shut