322 THE PERITONEUM. The anatomical changes vary with the amount of reaction of the tissues and the stage and duration of the inflammation. In the most rapidly fatal forms—the so-called peritoneal septicaemia —the patient may die before any pronounced changes have had time to occur. More commonly the vessels of the membrane are markedly injected ; the surface loses its lustre, and is covered with an exudation which may only amount to a stickiness, but more often consists of lymph which mats the intestines together and covers the solid organs. The lymph is usually thickest along the lines of contact between adjacent coils of bowel. It is at first fibrinous, but later becomes purulent and of a yellowish or greenish-yellow colour. The fibrinous exudation is usually accompanied by a fluid exudate which is at first serous, but tends to become turbid and to acquire the characters of pus. The inflammation may be diffused widely throughout the cavity of the abdomen, but as a result of the division of the cavity into pockets by the gumming together of adjacent surfaces, the exudation which accumulates in these pockets may vary in character at different parts of the belly. The inflam- matory changes are always more marked in the visceral than in the parietal peritoneum, and are most advanced in the vicinity of the organ from which the infection took origin. The presence of foetid gas in the peritoneal cavity may be due to decom- position of the inflammatory exudation, or the gas may have escaped through a perforation in the bowel or stomach. The coils of small intestine are usually greatly distended with gas, and their contents are in process of decomposition. Clinical Features.—These vary with the nature of the primary lesion and the manner in which the peritoneum becomes infected, and according to whether the signs of inflammatory reaction on the part of the peritoneum, or the signs of absorption of poisonous products, predominate. Being in the majority of cases a secondary affection, the symptoms of peritonitis are usually preceded by those of the primary disease, and develop gradually or suddenly according to the rapidity with which the peritoneum becomes involved. With the onset of peritonitis the symptoms of the primary affection may be completely overshadowed. In a typical or average case the patient feels extremely ill and is obliged to lie down. The facial expression is anxious. He lies on his back, often with the knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles, and he avoids any movement of the abdomen. The breathing is thoracic and is increased in frequency. The heart’s action is depressed, and the pulse quick