INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 42 fracture of the occipital bone results, and in the course of a few days blood infiltrates the scalp in the region of the occiput and mastoid, or may pass down in the deeper planes of the neck. As a rule, however, there is no immediate external evidence of fracture. The patient is generally unconscious, and shows signs of injury to the pons and medulla, causing interference with respiration, which soon proves fatal. The rapidly fatal issue of these cases usually prevents the manifesta- tion of any injury to the posterior cranial nerves. Prognosis in Basal Fractures.—The prognosis depends almost entirely on the occurrence of intra-cranial complications. Many cases prove fatal within a few hours from the associated injury to the brain, the patient dying from cerebral compression due to huemorrhage. It is possible that the free escape of blood from the nose or ear may in some cases prevent compression, and to a certain extent render the prognosis more favourable. Punctured fractures are very frequently fatal from septic com- plications—meningitis, sinus thrombosis, and cerebral abscess. These complications are also liable to occur in fractures rendered compound by opening into the nose, pharynx, or ear, but they are less common than might be expected. The repair of basal fractures is attended with very little callus formation, probably because there is no movement between the fragments. Treatment.—The general treatment includes that for all head injuries. In a few cases benefit has followed trephining for the relief of intra-cranial tension due to haemorrhage. Local treatment is directed towards preventing septic infection from the mucous surfaces implicated. This is exceedingly diffi- cult in fractures opening into the pharynx and nose. Owing to the general condition of the patient it is usually impossible to employ nasal douching or mouth washes, but antiseptic sprays and atomisers may be employed with benefit. In fractures of the middle fossa the ear should be washed out, care being taken not to force the fluid through the fracture. The meatus is then plugged with iodoform gauze or antiseptic wool, retained in position by adhesive plaster or a bandage. When there is an escape of blood or cerebro-spinal fluid, the dressing requires to be changed very frequently.