HERNIA. 384 trusions which appear in the space between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. Apart from cicatricial weakening of the parietes in this region, the hernia usually escapes through the triangle of Petit (Fig. 77). This triangle is bounded by the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi, the posterior edge of the external oblique, and the iliac crest. Its floor is formed by the stout fascia covering the internal oblique, and beneath this by the aponeurosis of the transversalis. As causes of this form of hernia may be mentioned defective development of the muscles, and the presence of fatty masses derived from the extra-peritoneal fat which, in their outward bulging, draw small peritoneal pouches with them. The hernia is more common in males than in females, and on the left than on the right side. The swelling is small, soft, globular and readily reducible. It may become ir- reducible, and in a certain number of cases becomes strangulated. The only con- dition with which it is liable to be confused in diagnosis is a dumb-bell shaped chronic ab- scess, which may have an im- pulse on coughing, and may be partly reducible. Lumbar hernise rarely cause any symptoms, and they are either left alone or are supported by means of a truss or belt. Obturator Hernia.—An obturator hernia escapes from the pelvis at the opening for the obturator vessels and nerve, and emerges in the upper and inner part of the thigh. The pro- truded viscus—which is nearly always small intestine—carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat, and the pelvic fascia. Beyond the foramen it may pass between the obturator membrane and the obturator externus muscle, and remain deeply placed; or it may make its way above the muscle and become more superficial, being covered by the pectineus and adductor brevis. The vessels and nerve are usually to the outer side of the sac, less commonly in front (Fig. 78). Obturator hernias are most frequently met with in elderly females, and the development of the hernia is sometimes associated with rapid loss of flesh in a person who was previ- ously stout. Fig. 78.—Strangulated Obturator Hernia. Obturator nerve passes over bowel.