617 ENLARGEMENT. young adults, in association with tubercle in the seminal vesicles and epididymis. The symptoms may suggest stone in the bladder or in the kidney. Micturition is frequent and painful, the pain being referred to the point of the penis at the end of the act, and the last few drops of urine are stained with blood. The prostate when palpated with the pulp of the forefinger may give the impression of pea-like nodules buried in its substance, of tender boggy areas, or there may be fluctuation. A cake-like induration of either seminal vesicle or a nodular thickening of the epididymis usually affords confirmation of the diagnosis. If a cold abscess develop it may rupture into the urethra, and pus and debris appear in the urine, or it may point and burst in the perineum, leading to the formation of a sinus or a urethral fistula. The prognosis is uncertain, because, although prostatic tubercle may undergo involution, the disease may extend to the bladder, or it may be only a part of a widespread infection of the genito-urinary organs on one or on both sides. If the epi- didymis is the original seat of the disease, improvement or re- covery may follow removal of the testis; even double castration may be called for. Direct interference with the prostate is usually confined to cases in which a cold abscess has formed ; this is opened from the perineum, cleared out, and packed with iodoform worsted. Open-air treatment should be instituted from the outset, and persevered with whether an operation is performed or not. Enlargement of the Prostate.—This vague but convenient term refers to an affection which is met with in men after middle life, and of which the most prominent feature is an inability properly to empty the bladder. It is neither inflammatory nor malignant in nature, and cannot be regarded as a pure hyper- trophy, because the increase in size of the organ is often due to the presence of newly formed glandular masses, analogous to the adenomata met with in the breast, thyroid and other glandular organs. The essential change would appear to be an exaggerated activity of growth in the gland tissue, which may be confined within the spaces of the connective tissue framework of the organ, or may be so exuberant as to lead to the formation of independent adenomatous masses or tumours, often of consider- able size. Such tumours gradually displace and compress the surrounding prostatic tissue, until the latter may be reduced to a mere film on the surface of the organ, and may be only identified on microscopical examination. This film of compressed prostatic tissue has been erroneously named the “ true capsule ”