VARIOUS FORMS OF SCOLIOSIS. Ill hang for a few minutes several times a day on an oblique bar, the hand on the side of the convexity grasping the lower end of the bar. In this way the curve is to some extent opened out. In cases where the curvature is not affected by suspension the deformity is irremediable, but by suitable exercises the patient may be educated to disguise it to a considerable extent, and the pain and disability may be materially diminished by treat- ment. Only in very aggravated cases should the patient be recommended to wear a supporting jacket. Such appliances have no curative effect, and are only designed to relieve the symptoms. Other forms of scoliosis are met with, but are less common. In rickety children, for example, the spine is frequently deviated. The curvature is usually in the dorso-lumbar region, and the convexity may be to the right or to the left. The deformity is often extreme and constitutes the hump-back of the rickety dwarf (Fig. 196, vol. i.). It is possible that the position in which the child habitually lies or is carried has some influence in determining the situation and direction of the curve. A rickety child with weak muscles should never be carried sitting on the nurse’s arm, but always in the horizontal position in a fiat wicker basket. Massage and salt-water douches are useful in strengthening the muscles of the back. The usual treatment for rickets must, of course, be carried out. Late rickets, osteo- malacia, and other diseases attended with softening of the bones and general debility, are also causes of scoliosis. In children who have commenced to walk, any inequality in the length of the limbs — such as results, for example, from infantile paralysis, hip disease, congenital dislocation of the hip or genu-valgum—necessitates a tilting of the pelvis, and may determine the development of a lateral deviation of the spine (static scoliosis). In addition to the treatment already described, the length of the limbs must be equalised by wearing a boot with a thick sole. Scoliosis may develop from purely mechanical causes; for example, in cases of empyema followed by collapse of the lung, in Pott’s disease, and in traumatic lesions of the spine. It may also occur in association with sciatica and lumbago. It is frequently met with in those who have suffered from infantile paralysis. Kyphosis.—Kyphosis, or backward curvature of the spine, may be due to a variety of causes. Those forms which result from Pott’s disease and injury have already been mentioned. In infants it is usually a manifestation of rickets or of