289 PHYSIOLOGICAL ENGORGEMENT. sixty. It runs a slow course, there is no vesication or itching as in ordinary eczema, but the condition is attended with tingling or burning pain. The treatment is the same as for cancer of the breast—com- plete removal of the gland and its lymphatic connections. Other tumours of the nipple, such as papillomata, angiomata, epitheliomata and sarcomata have been observed, but they are rare. Inflammatory Affections of the Breast. It is necessary to distinguish between those morbid conditions of the breast which result merely from physiological engorge- ment of the gland, and those which are truly inflammatory in nature. Physiological engorgement of the breast frequently occurs in newly-born infants—so-called mastitis neonatorum—as a result of the disintegration of certain of the epithelial elements from which the breast is developed. The gland becomes swollen, firm and tender, and a few drops of milky fluid may be ex- pressed from the nipple. It may happen that the nurse, acting upon the popular belief that it is necessary under these con- ditions to “ break the nipple strings ” by vigorous rubbing, irritates and infects the parts, with the result that suppurative inflammation is set up. About the time of puberty also, and particularly in females, one or both breasts may become engorged, tense and painful— mastitis of adolescents. A similar condition exists during pregnancy. An extreme degree of physiological engorgement may also occur during lactation, when, for example, the milk is retained owing to imperfect formation of the nipples, blocking of the ducts, or failure of the child to suck—milk engorgement. The breast becomes swollen and painful, the skin over it is congested, and the superficial veins prominent. On palpation it is found to be firm, knotty and tender. The temperature may be raised to 100° or 101° F. These conditions are only related to inflammation as pre- disposing factors, and in so far as they furnish a suitable nidus for the development of any organisms which may gain access to the breast. The clinical features of true inflammation are absent, and only appear if bacterial infection ensues. In puerperal cases the most important step in treatment is the withdrawal of the milk, which may be effected by the aid of a breast pump if the child is unable to suckle. The child VOL. II—19