241 CESOPHAGOTOMY. cause laceration of tlie oesophagus. When situated in the upper part of the oesophagus these should be removed by the operation of oesophagotomy. An incision three or four inches long is made a little in front of the anterior edge of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. The trachea and the carotid sheath having been exposed and separated from one another, the oesophagus is palpated, a bougie having first been passed through the mouth to facilitate its recognition and to aid in localising the foreign body. The (esophagus is then opened in its long axis, rather towards its posterior aspect, to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve (which on the left side lies in front of the oesophagus), and, after the foreign body has been removed, is sutured with chromic gut. Lest there should be leakage subsequently, the wound in the neck should be left open to admit of free drainage. For the first few days after operation the patient is fed by the rectum, and for a few days more through a soft tube passed into the stomach. After this he may have fluids and soft solids by the mouth. If the foreign body is lodged near the lower end of the oesophagus, it may be necessary to perform gastrotomy, making an opening in the anterior wall of the stomach large enough to admit suitable forceps, or, if necessary, the whole hand, in order that the body may be extracted by this route. Bodies impacted half-way down the tube may not be within reach of an opening either in the oesophagus or the stomach, and it becomes necessary to perform the operation of mediastinal oesophagotomy, which consists in resecting portions of several ribs close to the left of the spine, pushing aside the pleura, and opening the oesophagus. As it is seldom possible to suture the wound in the oesophagus accurately, there is great risk of mediastinal cellulitis following this operation. Eupture of the oesophagus has been described as occurring during violent attempts to eject a foreign body by vomiting, and as a result of diseased conditions of the oesophageal wall. The accident is, however, very rare, and has usually proved fatal by setting up left-sided empyema or cellulitis. Inflammatory affections of the oesophagus due to pyogenic infection (oesophagitis), and of the cellular tissue around it (peri-oesophagitis), are rare apart from those forms due to the swallowing of caustics and to direct injury of the walls of the tube by foreign bodies. A chronic form of oesophagitis occasionally occurs above a stricture and in alcoholic subjects. It is attended with severe pain and difficulty on deglutition, and attacks of vomiting. Tuberculous lesions are also occasionally met with. They VOL. II—16