EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. 495 In most cases it is necessary to remove the affected tubes and ovaries through a mesial abdominal incision—saljnngo-oophorec- tomy. After opening the abdomen all adhesions, and particularly adhesions to the intestine, are carefully separated, till the pyo- salpinx is clearly defined. The uterine and ovarian arteries are secured, the tube clamped, and the mass removed. Care is taken to avoid infecting the cavity with pus from the tube, and, if this should occur, a drain must be introduced through the vagina, after which the abdominal wound is closed. Extra-uterine or Ectopic Gestation.—When an impreg- nated ovum becomes implanted elsewhere than in the cavity of the uterus, the condition is spoken of as an extra-uterine or ectopic gestation. It is only necessary here to refer to that variety in which the site of implantation is the Fallopian tube— tubal gestation—as the abdominal and ovarian forms are ex- tremely rare. The middle or ampullary portion of the tube is the most common situation in which the ovum becomes arrested. The ovum becomes embedded in the mucous membrane, and at first the walls of the tube are swollen, vascular, and turgid, but after the sixth week they gradually become thinned out until the affected portion of the tube is represented by a delicate, transparent sac. The foetal membranes develop at the site of implantation in very much the same way as in an ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy. The uterus increases in size, and a thick, soft, decidual membrane develops in its interior. The ovum is liable to various accidents during the process of its development. If situated towards the fimbriated end of the tube, it may be extruded into the peritoneal cavity—tubal abor- tion—and this may be accompanied by severe and even fatal haemorrhage. The ovum may die in the tube and persist as a tubal mole, which consists of a small amniotic cavity, in which the fcetus lies surrounded by blood-clot enclosed within the chorion. The presence of a tubal mole is associated with repeated slight haemorrhages into the peritoneal cavity, leading to the formation of an intra-peritoneal haematocele. Another common accident is rupture of the gestation sac. This may take place directly into the peritoneal cavity and lead to rapidly fatal haemorrhage, or into the connective tissue between the layers of the broad ligament, in which case the haemorrhage is less copious. The foetus usually perishes when rupture occurs, and it may escape into the peritoneal cavity or remain embedded in the substance of the broad ligament. It may ultimately be absorbed and give rise to no trouble, or it may become mummified. In