664 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. Acute Orchitis.—In the course of certain acute infectious diseases, for example, mumps, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, influenza, tonsillitis, malaria, and pyaemia, the body of the testis is liable to become acutely inflamed. A similar condition is sometimes met with in gouty and rheumatic subjects. Orchitis in Mumps.—Although this complication of mumps is met with chiefly in patients about the age of puberty, in them it is comparatively common. About the end of the first week of the parotitis the body of the testis suddenly becomes swollen and painful. The testis is firm, tense, and smooth, and extremely tender, the pain radiating along the cord to the loin. There is no enlargement of the epididymis or cord, nor is there any effusion into the tunica vaginalis. The scrotum becomes red and cedematous. The condition is usually unilateral, but when both glands are attacked, the swelling has usually subsided on one side before the other becomes affected. The inflammation lasts for about three or four days and then gradually abates. Suppuration is very rare. Atrophy of the testis, however, is not uncommon, and, when bilateral, renders the patient sterile. The orchitis which occurs in the course of the other acute infectious diseases above mentioned closely resembles that associated with mumps, but is on the whole less acute, and the pain and other symptoms are less severe. As the swelling of the testis usually occurs when the fever is at its height, the local symptoms are usually overshadowed by those of the general disease, and the testicular condition, particularly in adults, may be overlooked or only discovered accidentally. Orchitis in Gout.—Gouty orchitis usually occurs in patients over fifty years of age, who are subject to repeated attacks of arthritic gout, and usually manifests itself just before the onset of one of the regular attacks. The swelling is most marked in the body of the testis, but the epididymis often shares in the inflammation, and there is frequently an effusion into the tunica vaginalis. The condition is frequently bilateral, and relapses are common. Treatment.—The treatment of these various forms of orchitis is cairied out on the same lines as that for epididymitis, due attention being paid to any general disease which may be present. In the rare instances in which suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened; an attempt may be made to save the testis, but as it is almost certain subsequently to undergo atrophy, it is as a rule best to remove it. Tuberculosis of the Testis and Epididymis.—Acute tuber- culosis of the epididymis and testis is a rare affection, which,