THE PROSTATE. 624 maintain that the separation takes place within the outermost film of prostatic tissue, and have ourselves observed that when the specimen removed appeared to represent the entire organ, microscopical examination of the wall of the cavity left behind showed glandular spaces belonging to the prostate. So far as the patient is concerned the operation amounts to a complete prostatectomy. In the perineal operation, advocated by Alexander, Parker Syms, Albarran, and others, the membranous urethra is opened on a median staff, the layer of fascia investing the prostate and the outermost film of prostatic tissue is torn through with the finger-nail, and the organ is enucleated as in the previous opera- tion. The parts are brought nearer the finger if the bladder is pushed down by the other hand above the pubes; the prostatic urethra is less frequently sacrificed than in the suprapubic operation. A drainage-tube is inserted into the bladder, and is connected with a suction apparatus. Castration.—From the fact that removal of the testes is sometimes followed by atrophy of the prostate, castration has been had recourse to as a method of treatment in enlargement of the organ (Ramm, White). In a proportion of cases this opera- tion has been most successful, the enlargement of the prostate having entirely disappeared with recovery of normal micturi- tion. As removal of the testes may be followed by psychical disturbances, amounting in some cases to actual insanity, and as it does not necessarily bring about recovery of the bladder functions, it is not to be recommended. Resection of a portion of the vasa deferentia—vasectomy—is even less certain in its results than castration. Calculi in the Prostate.—Multiple small calculi composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime sometimes form in the gland follicles. If the intervening prostatic tissue become absorbed the calculi come to lie in a cyst-like cavity, and become faceted by mutual contact; the cavity may or may not communicate with the urethra. The clinical features are similar to those of tubercle of the prostate. If a rectal examination is made the stones may yield a grating or crepitus, especially if there is an instrument in the urethra. Suppuration may ensue and lead to extravasation of urine and the formation of one or more fistula; in the perineum. Exploration of the fistula with a probe may demonstrate the presence of calculus. Stone in the prostatic urethra is usually one which has partly escaped from the bladder and become enlarged from the subsequent deposition of lime salts. It usually presents an