629 INJURIES. In very exceptional instances it is associated with true her- maphroditism. Epispadias—the reverse of hypospadias—is a condition in which the roof of the urethra is deficient, and the urine escapes through an abnormal opening on the upper aspect. It is rarely met with apart from extroversion of the bladder and arrested development of the external genitals. The urethra appears as an open gutter on the dorsum of the penis. When the deficiency is confined to the roof of the urethra it may be made good by an operation in which skin flaps are raised from the adjacent parts. Injuries.—Wounds in the long axis of the urethra heal readily without any tendency to subsequent contraction of the tube. Wounds which cross the long axis of the urethra trans- versely or obliquely are very apt to lead to stricture, and may be followed by fistula. After passing a full-sized catheter into the bladder, the urethra is exposed at the site of the wound by a free longitudinal incision of the overlying skin and fascia. The cut edges of the urethra are then accurately united by fine catgut, the sutures being inserted by Lembert’s method, avoiding the mucous membrane, and the fascia and skin are stitched in separate tiers. Full doses of bromides or trional are given to prevent nocturnal erections, which tend to reopen the wound; when healing is complete a bougie is passed at intervals to prevent contraction of the cicatrix in the urethra. Contusion and rupture of the urethra are by no means uncommon injuries in boys and men from violence applied to the perineum, as by a kick or a fall astride a paling. The urethra is driven against the pubic arch and bruised or torn, usually at the junction of the bulbous and membranous portions, and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament is often torn at the same time. In fracture of the pelvis a displaced fragment of bone may lacerate the,urethra, usually the membranous, but sometimes the prostatic portion, or the urethra may be actually torn away from the bladder. Clinical Features.—If the urethra is merely contused there is tenderness and swelling, with or without ecchymosis in the perineum, and pain and difficulty in micturition, which pass off in the course of a few days. If the urethra is actually torn, there is free haemorrhage from the mucous membrane and corpus spongiosum, and blood drips or flows from the meatus. This may be all that attracts the patient’s attention, or there may be pain at the seat of injury and a considerable degree of shock. He is usually unable to make water and the bladder becomes