395 FOREIGN BODIES. The peritoneal cavity and the external wound are then purified and closed, with or without drainage according to circumstances. Effects of Caustics.—The stomach wall may be damaged by the patient swallowing concentrated acids or alkalis, or other caustic substances. The corrosive action is most severe on the lesser curvature and towards the pyloric end of the stomach, and it may prove fatal, either immediately from perforation of the stomach, or later from sloughing of its walls. When the destructive action does not at once extend to all the coats, cicatricial contraction subsequently ensues, and may cause stenosis of the pylorus, or an hour-glass constriction in the body of the stomach. As a rule the gullet also is damaged by the caustic and is the seat of stricture. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach.—When such articles as small coins, buttons, beads or fruit stones are swallowed, being comparatively smooth and rounded, they usually traverse the pylorus and are passed by the rectum. Other bodies, such as tooth plates, large nails, pieces of bone, knives, forks, etc., are more liable to be retained in the stomach, either because they are too large to pass through the pylorus, or because they are sharp and irregular, and catch on the gastric mucous membrane. They seldom become impacted in the pyloric orifice. The progress of an opaque foreign body along the alimentary canal may be observed by a series of X-ray photo- graphs. These bodies may perforate the stomach and cause fatal peritonitis, or they may lodge in the stomach and give rise to symptoms simulating those of gastric ulcer. Large bodies may be palpable through the abdominal wall, and when opaque they may be demonstrable by the Rontgen rays. In hysterical young girls large halls of hair are occasionally formed in the stomach by the gradual accumulation of fragments of the patient’s own hair, which have been bitten off and swallowed. These “ hair-balls ” may be felt as round bodies which are freely movable within the stomach, and they give rise to gastric pain, indigestion and emaciation. Treatment.—-The passage of small bodies through the pylorus and intestines is facilitated by administering a large meal of porridge, rice-pudding or “ pease-brose,” which will enclose the foreign body and fill up any crevices in it. When there are any rough projections on the body, a quantity of chopped up worsted or string is a useful addition to the bolus, the strands being wound round the projections by the churning movements of the stomach. The stools should be mixed with water and strained through muslin till the object is found.