137 HYPERTROPHY OF TONSILS. addition. Hearing is often impaired from obstruction of the Eustachian tube. In many cases the patient has a characteristic- ally vacant and stupid expression. Treatment.—General tonic treatment is indicated in all cases. In early and mild cases the tonsils should be painted with glycerin of tannic acid, or some other astringent, and an antiseptic mouth-wash should be employed. In more advanced cases tonsillotomy is called for. The parts are painted with a 5 per cent, solution of cocain, and the tonsil is seized with vulsella forceps and pulled out from between the pillars of the fauces. The tonsil is then shaved off by means of a curved probe-pointecl bistoury, protected with adhesive plaster near the hilt to avoid injuring the lips or tongue. In children as much of the tonsil as possible should be removed, but in adults it is usually sufficient to shave off the projecting portion. The sub- sequent cicatricial contraction reduces the organ to its normal size. In tonsils which project prominently the guillotine may be preferred to the knife. Haemorrhage is seldom excessive and usually ceases spontane- ously. When it is persistent, the patient should be made to sit upright and should be given ice to suck. The local application of adrenalin or sponge pressure has been found useful. Calculi, composed of phosphate or carbonate of lime, are sometimes formed in the crypts of the tonsils. As a rule they are not larger than a pea, but they may be much larger. They cause a sharp stabbing pain on swallowing, and sometimes a persistent hacking cough. The affected tonsil is large and firm and is usually the seat of repeated attacks of inflammation. They are easily removed through a small incision into the tonsil. Syphilis.—The fauces and tonsils are occasionally the seat of a primary chancre. The parts become red, swollen, and hard, and the condition may closely resemble an epithelioma. The submaxillary glands, however, are early and markedly enlarged, and there is usually considerable constitutional disturbance. During the secondary period of syphilis, mucous patches are frequently met with on the tonsils and fauces. When these persist or recur with frequency, the tonsils may become per- manently hypertrophied, and are then liable to repeated attacks of acute inflammation. Severe phagedsenic ulceration sometimes occurs in the later stages of secondary syphilis, especially in alcoholic subjects, and may rapidly eat through the soft palate. In the tertiary stage a diffuse gummatous infiltration occurs, and is liable to be followed by ulceration which spreads to the