APPENDICITIS. 344 off by adhesions from the abscess around the appendix—a point of importance in connection with treatment, as the deeper collec- tion may escape detection and not be drained by the tube introduced into the appendicular abscess. Diffuse Peritonitis.—In the absence of a sufficient reaction /N on the part of the surrounding peritoneum the infection rapidly spreads, and becomes diffuse, or even generalised. In the gravest cases of all—such as give rise to the condition of peritoneal septicaemia—there is no reaction, and only a small quantity of odourless, blood-stained serum is found in the peritoneal cavity. In other cases there is diffuse suppuration, with accumulations of pus in the pelvis and flanks and between the lower coils of intestine, while in the upper part of the abdomen the exudation is serous or sero-purulent. In a third group of cases, although the suppuration is not confined to the appendicular region, certain areas of the peritoneal cavity are shut off by adhesions so that the larger collections of pus are separate from one another. The cellular tissue in the iliac fossa may be infected cither directly or by way of the lymphatics. A suppuration, originally intra-peritoneal, may spread to the cellular tissue if prevented by firm adhesions from extending within the abdomen. The suppuration may spread along the iliac fossa between the peritoneum and the iliac fascia as far as I'oupart’s ligament, being prevented from entering the thigh by the attachment of the fascia to Poupart’s ligament, or it may spread upwards behind the ascending colon towards the kidney, or backwards into the loin. Conditions of Occurrence.—Although appendicitis is chiefly a disease of youth, and occurs with greatest frequency between the ages of twenty and thirty, it may be met with at any period of life. It is approximately three times more common in the male than in the female—a fact of which there is no satisfactory explanation, unless the additional blood-supply from the ovarian artery be so regarded. The infective process usually occurs in individuals who are apparently in good health, although in some cases it may follow upon an antecedent catarrh of the bowel, or on some general blood infection, such as influenza. The influence of cold, injury, excessive exertion, especially that entailing use of the psoas muscle, sometimes assigned as causes of appendicitis, are rather to be regarded as factors which may light up an acute inflammation in an appendix which is already diseased. What ever be the explanation, there is no doubt of the fact that the disease has increased in frequency within recent years.