THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 202 meatal region. Causes originating in the septum include deviations, spines and ridges, and septal hsematoma and abscess. Obstruction may also be due to the presence of a foreign body in the nasal cavity, to rhinoliths, and to imperfect development of the nasal chambers. Further, tumours, both simple and malignant, and such conditions as tubercle, lupus, syphilis and glanders may interfere more or less with nasal respiration. The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is the presence of adenoids, while more rarely fibro-mucous polypi, fibrous tumours, malignant disease, and cicatricial contractions and adhesions resulting from syphilis are met with. Erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies is due to engorgement of the venous spaces contained in the mucous membrane. Obstruction from this cause is usually intermittent in character, and may be unilateral or bilateral. It is influenced by posture, being worse when the patient is in the horizontal position, and also by changes in atmospheric conditions and temperature. It is characterised objectively by a swelling of the mucous membrane, which is pink or red in appearance and of a soft consistence, pitting when touched with the probe, and shrinking on the application of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain. Its soft consistence and the fact that it becomes smaller when painted with cocain differentiate it from true hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. Its situation and immobility, its pink colour, and the shrinkage under cocain distinguish it from the mucous polypus of the nose. The turgescence may involve the whole extent of the mucosa of the inferior turbinated bodies, including their posterior ends. After anaesthetising with cocain, the electric cautery, or the application of fused chromic acid upon a probe, may be employed for the relief of the condition. If a true hypertrophy exist, it is better to remove it with a nasal snare. Nasal polypi are most commonly of the mucous variety, and are as a rule multiple. They spring from the mucous membrane covering the middle turbinated bone and from the adjacent parts of the middle meatus, but never from the septum. They are usually pedunculated, and as they increase in size they become pendulous in the nasal cavity. They are smooth, rounded in outline, of a translucent bluish-grey colour, soft in consistence, and freely movable. These characters, and the fact that the probe can be passed round the greater part of the polypus, serve to differentiate this affection from the erectile swelling. It must not be forgotten that nasal polypi may be associated with sup- puration in one or more of the accessory sinuses. They are frequently present also in malignant disease, and in these cases