367 INGUINAL HERNIA. either drawing out the loop of intestine and resecting the strictured segment, or establishing an artificial anus, according to the condition of the patient. The stenosed segment can be resected after the obstructive symptoms have passed off. The Varieties of Hernia—Inguinal Hernia. This is by far the commonest form of hernia, and includes all herniae which traverse the inguinal canal. If it leaves the abdomen through the internal abdominal ring to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and traverses the entire length of the inguinal canal, it is called an oblique, or, from its relation to the deep epigastric, an external inguinal hernia. If it escape in the interval between the deep epigastric artery and the outer border of the rectus muscle, that is, to the inner side of the deep epigastric, it is called a direct or internal inguinal hernia. If the protrusion does not extend beyond the external abdominal ring it is spoken of as a bubonocele; if it descends into the scrotum or labium it is called a scrotal or a labial hernia. Surgical Anatomy.—The inguinal canal extends from the internal abdominal ring, which is situated half an inch above Poupart’s ligament midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, to the external ring, situated immediately above the crest of the pubes. In the adult it is about an inch and a half long, and has a direction almost directly inwards, with a slight inclination downwards and forwards. The anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and in the outer third by those fibres of the internal oblique which take origin from Poupart’s ligament. The posterior wall is formed by the transversalis fascia, together with the conjoined tendon at its inner part, and a distinct layer of tendinous fibres derived from the transversalis muscle at its outer part. The conjoined tendon is often thin and weak, and blends internally with the sheath of the rectus. The floor of the canal is formed by Poupart’s ligament, and its reflection on to the body of the pubes—Gimbernat’s ligament; and the roof, by the arching fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. Action of the Inguinal Canal.—“In a healthy individual the anterior and posterior walls are in close apposition. When the arched fibres of the internal oblique contract, they become straight and descend towards Poupart’s ligament, compressing the spermatic] cord against that structure. While so descended