684 THE MALE GENITAL OKGANS. or kick over the scrotum, a sudden strain or twist, or a punctured wound as in tapping a hydrocele. In the last instance the bleeding may result from wounding a blood-vessel of the scrotum, tunica vaginalis or testis. Clinical Features. — The physical signs of a hsematocele resemble in a general way those of hydrocele, but being traumatic in origin the swelling usually develops suddenly. The tunica vaginalis rapidly becomes filled by the extravasated blood, forming a tense oval swelling which distends the scrotum and obscures the outline of the testis. The position of the gland can usually be ascertained by eliciting testicular sensation. It usually occupies the lower and posterior part of the scrotum. With the onset of the swelling the patient experiences a sickening pain, but there are no other signs of inflammation. The scrotum may become discoloured at once from extravasation taking place into its tissues, or some days later from the deposition of blood pigment. The swelling is at first uniform in outline, soft and fluctuating, but in the course of a few days the blood coagulates, and it becomes irregular in shape and consistence. Still later it becomes firm from thickening of its walls by the deposit on them of fibrin and laminated clot. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis is occupied by a dark brown sanious fluid into which project shreddy masses of coagulum. An old standing hsematocele may simulate a solid tumour of the testis, and calcareous plates may develop in its walls. When the haemorrhage occurs into a pre-existing hydrocele, the swelling suddenly becomes larger, firmer and heavier, and loses its translucency. Suppuration sometimes occurs either from infection from without, as in tapping a hydrocele, or through the blood- stream. When the haematocele is of long standing, the testis may undergo atrophy. Treatment.—In recent cases, the patient should remain in bed with the scrotum elevated on a pillow placed between the thighs, and evaporating lotions or lead and opium fomentations should be applied. If the swelling is very tense and the vitality of the scrotum is threatened, the tension should be relieved by puncture or incision. In old standing cases an operation similar to that recommended for the radical treatment of hydrocele should be performed. When suppuration occurs, free incision and drainage are called for, and if the testis is atrophied its removal is indicated.