CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 407 If the tumour is confined to the stomach, and has not formed any adhesions to surrounding viscera, if the glands are not infected, or, if infected, are capable of being removed, and if there is no evidence of metastasis having occurred, an attempt may be made to extirpate the growth. The operation of gastrectomy, or resection of the stomach, consists in removing a wedge-shaped or elliptical portion of the stomach, or, it may be, a complete segment of the organ. The former operation involves less complicated stitching than the latter, and is to be preferred when by it the whole disease can be removed. The term pylorectomy is applied when the operation is performed for malignant disease of the pylorus, although considerable portions of the stomach and duodenum must also be removed at the same time. Mere extent of the disease is not in itself a bar to operation, as is shown by the fact that the whole stomach has been success- fully removed. The mortality from the operation is about 30 per cent., the chief causes of death being shock, peritonitis, pneumonia, and gangrene of the colon. If the patient survive the operation, he rapidly puts on weight, and may completely regain his health. Immunity from recurrence for four years may be considered as constituting a permanent cure. The prognosis appears to be most favourable in cases of columnar carcinoma. The radical operation is contra-indicated when the gastric tumour has infiltrated surrounding structures, for example, the colon, omentum, liver, pancreas or abdominal wall, or when metastasis has occurred. Infection of the deeper glands, particularly those along the upper border of the pancreas, and in the retro-peritoneal tissue, also forbids excision. Under these circumstances the surgeon has to decide whether or not a palliative operation is calculated to relieve the patient’s symptoms. When the pylorus is obstructed, and the patient suffers from symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation of the stomach, considerable relief is usually afforded by gastro- enterostomy. When gastro-enterostomy is impracticable, jej un- ostomy may be performed, and the patient fed through the opening in the intestine. The vomiting ceases, the nutrition improves, and for a time the patient may feel quite well. In some cases, however, no benefit follows these operations. In the majority of cases the patient succumbs to the primary disease in the course of a few months, although in a few cases of undoubted cancer the patient has survived as long as three and a half years.