618 THE PROSTATE. of the organ ; it is, however, a pathological formation, and it is through this film of tissue that separation takes place in shelling out the organ in the operation of prostatectomy. The adeno- matous tumours may project on the urethral or on the vesical surface of the organ and form lobulated masses, of which the so-called “middle lobe of the prostate” is the best example. There may be several adenomatous masses in different parts of the organ or connected with one another. Albarran describes transition forms between the innocent adenoma and car- cinoma of the prostate. The hbro- muscular stroma may also be the seat of overgrowth, and when this is the pre- dominant feature the enlargement of the prostate is fairly uniform and its shape is preserved. When the adenomatous element predominates, the characteristic shape of the prostate is often lost, and the organ bulges more or less towards the urethra and bladder. The exuberant growth is prevented from projecting towards the rectum by the intervening layer of pelvic fascia. The unyielding character of the triangular ligament and the want of space beneath the pubic arch are responsible for the tendency of the gland, after enlarging to a certain degree, to project upwards in the direc- tion of least resistance, that is, into the cavity of the bladder. Enlargement of the prostate alters the length, direction and calibre of the prostatic urethra, and the relations of the urethral opening to the floor of the bladder. When the organ is uniformly enlarged the urethra is elongated, it may be by as much as two inches, and the intra-vesical projection may surround the opening of the urethra after the fashion of a collar. If the enlargement specially affects one lateral lobe the urethra is displaced towards the opposite side, and its transverse diameter is diminished. The so-called “middle lobe ” is an adenomatous offshoot from one of the lateral lobes. It may project forwards into the urethra, displacing the latter towards the pubes, diminishing its antero-posterior diameter, and exaggerating its forward curve, or it may project upwards into the Fig. 146.—Section of Blad- der showing uniform en- largement of Prostate and lengthening of Prostatic Urethra. (From a photo- graph lent by Mr. C. W. Cathcart.) (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)