STRICTURE. 511 upon its situation than its size and nature. A small ulcer, for example, situated in the region of the sphincters may give rise to severe pain, tenesmus, and reflex nervous disturbances, while a much larger ulcer higher up in the bowel causes comparatively little discomfort. Morning diarrhoea is one of the earliest and most constant symptoms. The patient is urgently called to stool as soon as he gets up in the morning, but only passes a quantity of thin, muco-purulent, or “ coffee-ground ” matter. This does not give him relief, and he may have severe tenesmus, which necessitates repeated efforts to empty the bowel. At last a solid motion is passed, and he remains comfortable for the rest of the day. As the ulceration progresses, there is a constant dull, aching pain, and the desire to empty the bowel becomes more frequent. There may be griping pain in the lower part of the abdomen and flatulent distension. Later he may suffer from alternating constipation and diarrhoea. On examination with the finger or speculum the ulcer is detected, and is usually found to be within an inch and a half or two inches of the anus. In many cases there are several characteristically club-shaped tags of skin around the anal margin. The symptoms of ulceration often gradually merge into those of stricture. Treatment.—The general and constitutional treatment should be directed to the cause of the ulceration. The patient is usually most comfortable in the recumbent position, with the foot of the bed raised on blocks to diminish congestion of the pelvis. The bowels must be carefully regulated by mild laxa- tives and enemata. The ulcer may be treated by stimulant, sedative, or astringent applications according to its condition. The operative measure which gives most relief is division or stretching of the external sphincter. The rest afforded to the sore by this measure also favours healing. In some cases the ulcer may be scraped and sponged over with pure carbolic acid. Insufflation of iodoform or of orthoform is often useful. When pain is severe morphin or cocain suppositories are indicated. In otherwise intractable cases the ulcer may be excised. A temporary colostomy may be of service by affording complete rest to the rectum, thus placing the ulcer under the most favour- able conditions for healing. Cicatricial Stricture.—Cicatricial, fibrous, or non-malignant stricture of the rectum may follow on any form of inflammation or ulceration which implicates the submucous and muscular coats of the bowel. It is perhaps most common after syphilitic, dysenteric or tuberculous ulceration. Stenosis may also ensue after any operation which involves removal of a considerable