THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 522 acute tearing or cutting nature, and lasts only for a few minutes. Later it becomes burning, and is accompanied by spasm of the sphincters and bearing-down sensations, which may last for an hour or two. When the ulceration exposes the fibres of the external sphincter the pain is of a dull, aching, or throbbing character, and is more or less continuous. In addition to the local pain the patient may suffer from reflex pains radiating to the back, the pelvic organs, and down the legs. In some cases there is pain and difficulty in micturition. The motions may be altered in shape, and are sometimes streaked with blood. On separating the buttocks the small ulcer and its sentinel pile, if present, may be seen. It is most frequently situated towards the posterior margin of the anus, particularly in men. In women, when due to tearing of the mucous membrane during parturition, it occurs on the anterior wall. The sore is extremely sensitive when touched or stretched, or when the patient attempts to strain. The sphincter and levator muscles are firmly con- tracted. To the finger the fissure feels like the edges of a buttonhole. The occurrence of bleeding in cases of fissure suggests the presence of piles or polypus, and purulent discharge is usually due to an associated fistula. A digital examination of the rectum should always be made to discover if there is any other affection present, such as polypus, piles or fistula, and in making the examination the finger should be pressed against the side of the anus opposite to that on which the fissure is situated. Treatment.—In slight and early cases careful regulation of the bowels, scrupulous attention to cleanliness, and the use of soothing antiseptic applications, such as orthoform, ichthyol, mercurial ointment, or iodoform and cocain suppositories give relief, and may even effect a cure. In more severe and persistent cases it is necessary to paralyse the external sphincter for a sufficiently long time to enable the sore to heal. This may be done by carrying an incision through the base of the fissure, and so dividing the fibres of the external sphincter. When the edges of the fissure are indurated they should be snipped away with scissors. A simple antiseptic dressing is applied, and the bowels kept at rest for a few days. The sphincter usually regains its power in about a fortnight. Another method of treatment consists in forcibly stretching the sphincter, so that its power of contracting is temporarily arrested. When the fissure is associated with polypus, piles, or other disease of the rectum, it is necessary to treat these conditions. Hemorrhoids or Piles.—The term haemorrhoids or piles is