288 THE BEEAST. Fissures can usually be prevented by adopting prophylactic measures during the later months of pregnancy. Care must be taken, for example, that the corsets do not press unduly on the parts ; and the nipple, if retracted, should be gradually withdrawn by traction or by suction with a breast pump. It must be kept scrupulously clean by frequent washing with a mild antiseptic lotion, and after being dried should be bathed with methylated spirit or eau-de-Cologne. During lactation the parts should be washed with boracic lotion after nursing, dried, and dusted with boracic powder. If the fissures are very painful, they may be painted with cocain, and an artificial nipple should be worn during suckling. Any inflammatory condition of the child’s mouth should be corrected, lest it prove a source of infection of the nipple. Syphilitic affections of the nipple are comparatively rare. A primary chancre is occasionally met with on the nipple or areola of a healthy woman who has acted as wet-nurse to a syphilitic infant. One or both nipples may be affected, and it is not uncommon for the sores to be multiple. The chancre is seldom typical, and varies from a shallow fissure to a large indurated and ulcerated surface. The axillary glands are enlarged, hard, and shotty, and other evidence of syphilitic infection is soon manifest. Paget’s Disease of the Nipple and Areola.—In 1874 Paget first described a peculiar inflammatory affection of the skin of the nipple and areola, which, in the great majority of cases, is followed by the development of cancer in the breast, the tumour being of the ordinary scirrhus variety. The disease is to be regarded as a superficial carcinoma of the skin. In the majority of cases it begins around the orifices of the milk ducts as a bright red excoriation, which gradually spreads over the areola and on to the skin of the breast, till it forms a florid patch which, in Paget’s words, has an appearance “like that of an acute balanitis.” The epidermis covering this patch desquamates, the part becoming red and thin, and discharging a yellow, viscid fluid, which dries on the surface and forms scabs and crusts, particularly towards the edges of the patch. The affected area is slightly raised and indurated, and its sinuous margin is sharply defined. When picked up between the fingers and thumb it has a peculiar parchment-like feeling. The nipple also is indurated, and may be retracted or even destroyed by ulceration. In some cases the cancerous condition of the skin is due to spread along the ducts from a tumour in the substance of the breast. The disease is usually met with in women between fifty and