91 POTT’S DISEASE. Abscess Formation.—All forms of tuberculous disease of the spine are liable to be complicated with the formation of abscesses, which tend to spread widely, the direction of spread varying with the primary site of the mischief in the bone. The different forms of abscess met with will be described later. Abscesses occur with greater frequency and at an earlier stage in adults than in children, because in adults the disease usually begins as a periostitis of the surface of the vertebrae. Pyogenic infection of sucli abscesses constitutes one of the chief risks to life in Pott’s disease. Nervous Phenomena.—When the spinal cord is pressed upon the motor fibres are first affected, as they lie superficially on the antero-lateral aspects of the cord. There is at first weakness or paresis of the muscles supplied from the part of the cord below the seat of pressure. Later there is paralysis varying in extent, and sometimes amounting to complete paraplegia. This may come on gradually or quite suddenly. The knee-jerks and plantar reflexes are exaggerated, and there is marked ankle clonus. There is wasting of muscles, and later a tendency to contracture and the development of deformities. Trophic sores and septic cystitis may develop, but these complications are less common in diseases than in injuries of the spine. In some cases the patient loses control of the sphincters. The sensory fibres usually escape, although in some cases there is partial anaesthesia and perversion of sensation. In cases of myelitis loss of sensibility to pain (analgesia) is one of the most characteristic symptoms. The symptoms referable to pressure on the nerve-roots are pain and hyperesthesia along the course of the nerves which are pressed upon at their points of emergence, and occasionally weakness and wasting of the muscles supplied by them. General Principles of Treatment.—In every case of Pott’s disease absolute rest in the recumbent posture must be maintained until all the symptoms have disappeared. From the nature of the disease this line of treatment must usually be persisted in for from one to two years. While the more acute symptoms last the spine may be immobilised by means of extension and counter-extension with weight and pulley. Later, a double Thomas’s splint or a Phelp’s box may be used to admit of the patient being moved from one room to another or into the open air. No form of apparatus which is designed to fix the spine is to be relied upon so long as the patient is allowed to assume the erect posture. Such appliances are only useful in giving support to the spine after the disease is cured. The