THE STOMACH. 400 becomes rapid (120-130) and feeble, and the temperature may rise. The features are drawn, the expression anxious, and the face livid. The abdomen becomes distended and tympanitic. On rectal or vaginal examination fluid may be detected by bulging of the pouch of Douglas, and the patient may be unable to empty the bladder. If untreated, death usually ensues in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The diagnosis is usually easy, but in some cases there is difficulty in excluding such conditions as hepatic, renal, and intestinal colic, acute appendicitis—-particularly in cases of duodenal perforation—and the rupture of an extra-uterine pregnancy or a pyosalpinx. On the other hand, patients with a definite history of old-standing gastric ulcer are sometimes seized with intense pain and collapse, and yet, on the abdomen being opened, no perforation can be found. These are probably cases of threatened perforation or of concealed haemorrhage. In all doubtful cases an exploratory operation should be performed. The administration of more than one dose of opium for the relief of pain should be avoided until a definite diagnosis has been made, and the line of treatment decided upon. Prognosis.—When the perforation occurs into the general peritoneal cavity, the only hope of saving the patient’s life lies in operation, and this is seldom successful unless performed within eight or ten hours of the perforation. The prognosis is most favourable when the stomach is empty at the time of perforation. When the perforation occurs among adhesions or into the lesser sac, the patient may recover and subsequently develop a perigastric abscess, this being usually situated in the left subphrenic space. Operation.—After the diagnosis of perforation has been made, no time should be lost in performing the operation. In making the preparations for operation the patient should be moved as little as possible. The abdomen is opened by an incision, usually in the middle line above the umbilicus. When the perforation has taken place into the general peritoneal cavity, and the abdomen is distended with gas, the parietal peritoneum and extra-peritoneal fat may be bulged into the wound after the muscles have been divided. On opening the peritoneum gas and a quantity of yellow, turbid fluid escape, and the abdominal wall becomes flaccid. When the perforation is in the duodenum, the fluid is usually bile stained, and there is little or no gas. The site of the perforation may be indicated by gas and fluid gushing from it with each respiratory movement, or by an accumulation of lymph in its vicinity. When not immedi-