503 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. longitudinal septum. In relation to the anterior of these com- partments the genito-urinary organs are developed, while the posterior compartment becomes the rectum. Abnormal com- munications between the rectum and the genito-urinary passage are due to imperfect development of the longitudinal septum. Coincidently with the formation of the rectum the anal canal undergoes development by the formation in the epiblast of a depression, named the proctodcevm, which lies in line with the rectum, but is separated from it by a strand of epiblast known as the cloacal membrane. About the third month this membrane disappears, and the continuity of the rectum and anal canal is thereby established. Malformations. —These vary according to the period at which the development is arrested, and according to the layers of the blast- oderm involved. Interfer- ence with the evolution of the hypoblastic and meso- blastic layers leads to mal- formations of the rectum proper, while errors in the development of the epiblast cause deformities of the anal canal. In certain varieties the escape of meconium and faeces is completely ob- structed, in others the obstruction is only partial, and in some the outlet of the alimentary canal, although patent, is abnormally placed. The most common deformity of the anus is its occlusion by a thin fibrous membrane which stretches from the centre of the perineum to the region of the coccyx. The meconium bulges this membrane, and forms a dark bluish swelling in the perineum which becomes tense when the infant cries or strains. In some cases the membrane is incomplete, and meconium escapes at its edges. As a rule the canal is perfectly developed in other respects. Occasionally the anal canal is completely absent (Fig. Ill), the position of the orifice being indicated merely by a slight pigmentation and corrugation of the integument. More 1 Diseases of the A nus, Rectum, and Pelvic Colon, by Jas. P. Tuttle, 1903. Fig. 111.—Complete absence of the Anus. (After Tuttle.) 1