501 CHAPTER XXXI. THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Surgical anatomy—Examination—Congenital malformations—Inj uries— Foreign bodies—Inflammatory affections and their results: Proctitis; Periproctitis; Ulceration; Cicatricial stricture; Abscesses in the region of the rectum and anus; Fistula-in-ano—Anal fissure— Haemorrhoids or piles—Tumours: Piectal polypi; Carcinoma; Sarcoma—Epithelioma of anus—Prolapse of rectum. Surgical Anatomy.—The lower portion of the intestinal tract is, for practical purposes, best divided into the anal canal which extends upwards from the margin of the true skin for a distance of about an inch, and the rectum proper, extending from the upper limit of the anal canal to the level at which the peritoneum is reflected from the bowel, which is usually opposite the body of the third sacral vertebra. Above this level the bowel constitutes the pelvic colon or sigmoid flexure. The anal canal is lined by a smooth, glossy, muco-cutaneous membrane, which at its lower part has the characters of stratified squamous epithelium, and as it ascends is gradually transformed into the columnar epithelium characteristic of the rectum proper. The skin around the anal orifice is slightly pigmented, and is thrown into folds by the contraction of the external sphincter muscle. It contains numerous sudoriparous and sebaceous glands, and hair follicles. About half-way up the canal may sometimes be seen a pale ring running round the bowel—the ivhite line of Hilton—which indicates the junction of the external and internal sphincters. The external sphincter, com- posed of voluntary striped muscle, surrounds the anal canal, and is attached posteriorly to the coccyx and anteriorly to the central point of the perineum. It is supplied by nerve filaments derived from several of the sacral nerves. The rectum proper is lined by a thick, vascular mucous membrane, covered by columnar epithelium, and containing numerous tubular mucin-secreting glands and follicles of lymphoid tissue. In the upper part of the rectum the mucous membrane is arranged in horizontal folds. Three or four of these are specially well marked, and as they contain a quantity of submucous and muscular tissue at their bases they constitute distinct and permanent valves—the valves of Houston. In the lower part of the bowel the folds are longitudinal, and form the columns of Morgagni. Between these columns stretch a series of short semilunar valves, behind which are small crypts—the valves and crypts