458 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. The clinical features resemble those attending injuries of other abdominal viscera. There is no particular sign character- istic of ruptured liver. There is usually evidence of internal haemorrhage, the patient presenting the general features of the bloodless state. The blood tends to accumulate in the right side of the abdomen, being guided into the right iliac fossa by the mesocolon. An area of dulness, increasing from hour to hour, may be recognised at the lower part of the abdomen, corresponding to the accumulating blood. Jaundice occurs only in a small proportion of cases, and after an interval of three or four days. If there is simultaneous injury to the ribs, diaphragm, or lung, the breathing is much embarrassed. Rupture of the liver is often overlooked, especially where it coexists with other serious abdominal lesions. Treatment.—An absolute diagnosis being rarely possible, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed if there is any likelihood of the liver having been ruptured. The sooner the operation is' performed the more likely is it to be successful. A vertical incision is made in the middle line, and may be supplemented by a transverse one across the right rectus. Having exposed the rupture, the haemorrhage may in some cases be temporarily arrested by compressing the vessels in the gastro-hepatic omentum between the fingers and thumb, one of these being passed into the foramen of Winslow. Large open vessels should be ligatured separately. Whenever possible the edges of the rupture should be brought together by thick catgut sutures passed deeply through the liver substance. If the bleeding is not thereby arrested, recourse should be had to packing with gauze, the end of the gauze being brought out at the wound. The possibility of there being, a second rupture should be borne in mind. Injuries of neighbouring organs must also be sought for and attended to. The later complications of wounds and of rupture of the liver are for the most part the result of pyogenic infection, and include right-sided pleurisy, subphrenic abscess, and abscess of the liver itself. Diseases.—Hepatic Abscess.—The commonest form of abscess is that which follows on dysenteric ulceration of the intestine. From the frequency with which it affects Europeans who have lived in tropical climates it is commonly spoken of as “tropical abscess.” It is nearly always solitary, and is usually situated towards the convexity of the right lobe. The pus is : mixed with broken-down liver tissue, is chocolate-coloured and glairy, and has a mawkish odour. It is usually sterile when