51 SINUS PHLEBITIS AND THROMBOSIS. The dura is opened near the centre of the trephine circle. The brain is explored by means of a pair of sinus forceps, or a cannula with a blunt point and lateral apertures, passed down- wards, inwards, and forwards towards the tegmen tympani. When pus is struck, the blades of the forceps are expanded to admit of its escape and to facilitate the withdrawal of the sloughs which are frequently present. The cavity may be very gently flushed with sterilised salt solution. As the resilient brain soon obliterates the cavity, it is seldom possible to retain a drainage-tube in position. Iodoform gauze is placed in the wound, and a dressing applied and changed daily. For cerebellar abscess, in order to avoid the lateral sinus, the trephine is applied about an inch and a half behind and half an inch below the centre of the external auditory meatus. During operations on the cerebellum there is often a temporary cessation of respiration, although the heart continues to act. As soon as the skull is opened, the breathing is re-established. It is necessary, therefore, to carry out this part of the operation as rapidly as possible. A frontal abscess may be reached either through the frontal bone or through the temple according to its situation. Clinical Features of Sinus Phlebitis and Thrombosis.—It has already been pointed out that in a majority of cases sinus phlebitis occurs as a complication of middle ear disease. In all cases pain in the head, referred to the region of the affected sinus, and so severe as to prevent sleep, is an early and prominent feature. The patient is usually excited, hyper- sensitive, and irritable in the early stages, and becomes dull and even comatose towards the end. Rigors, followed by profuse perspiration, occur early, and increase in frequency as the disease progresses. The temperature is markedly remittent, varying from 103° to 106° F. The pulse is rapid, small, and thready. Loss of appetite, vomiting, and diarrhoea are almost constant symptoms. Phlebitis and Thrombosis of Individual Sinuses.—The superior lonc/itudinal sirnis is liable to be infected from patho- genic lesions of the scalp. There are no symptoms which are pathognomonic, but oedema of the scalp wTith turgescence of its veins, epistaxis, and convulsions followed by paralysis are those most likely to be met with. The cavernous sinus is usually implicated by spread of the process from other sinuses—for instance, from the petrosal or lateral sinuses—or from the ophthalmic veins in cases of orbital cellulitis. Although at first unilateral, the thrombosis usually