366 HERNIA. the usual practice is to incise the bowel freely, and thus allow of the escape of the intestinal contents. The omentum, if healthy, is returned within the abdomen; if damaged or infected, it is removed, the divided vessels being carefully ligatured. The operation is completed by performing the radical cure, which consists in obliterating the neck of the sac and closing the hernial canal. After-Treatment.—The patient may continue to vomit foul- smelling fluid for some hours after the operation. This may be controlled by washing out the stomach. There is some difference of opinion as to the use of opening medicine; our own practice is to give an enema the following morning, and a Seidlitz powder or other mild laxative by the mouth on the second day. The appearance of blood in the stools is occasionally observed after herniotomy, but is not a cause of anxiety. The patient should be kept recumbent for at least four weeks, preferably with the foot of the bed elevated. If the radical operation has been performed, the use of a truss is not recommended unless the patient’s occupation entails severe exertion. Sequelae of Strangulation.—Stenosis and Stricture of the In- testine.—The symptoms of obstruction may continue after herni- otomy as a result of the loop of bowel which was returned failing to transmit its contents. This may be due to paralysis of its muscular coats, to the occurrence of gangrene, to the persistence of the constriction grooves at either end of the loop, or to kinking of the bowel as a result of adhesions. A combination of these conditions may be present. If the symptoms do not yield to washing out of the stomach and irrigation of the lower bowel, the abdomen must be opened just above the hernial opening, the damaged loop drawn out of the wound, and an artificial anus established above the seat of obstruction. If the patient’s general condition is favourable, immediate resection and end-to-end suture may be performed. Symptoms of obstruction coming on towards the second or third week after herniotomy, the patient meanwhile having pro- gressed favourably, are usually due to the development of a fibrous stricture in the situation of the original constriction groove. The clinical features are those of chronic, incomplete obstruction, with occasional vomiting of large quantities of fluid, and gurgling noises in the abdomen. Distended coils of bowel showing active peristalsis, which is readily induced by manipulation of the abdomen, may be visible. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen above the hernial canal, and