THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 128 chancre. The sub-mental and sub-maxillary glands on one or on both sides soon become enlarged. They may reach the size of a pigeon’s egg, are firm, and somewhat painful. The sore on the lip does not heal for from four to six weeks, and leaves no permanent trace of its existence. In some cases the sore is much less characteristic. It may resemble an ordinary crack or fissure, and its true nature is only revealed when secondary manifestations appear. There is no reason to believe, as is sometimes stated, that syphilis contracted in this way is more severe than genital syphilis. The patient should be brought under the influence of mercury as rapidly as possible, as it is important to get the sore to heal rapidly to diminish the risk of infecting others. The sore may be dusted with calomel and starch powder, or painted with silver nitrate. Mucous patches are fre- quently met with on the mucous surface of the lips and at the angles of the mouth dur- ing the secondary stage of syphilis. In the inherited form of the disease deep cracks and fissures form, and often leave character- istic scars which radiate from the angles of the mouth (Fig. 28, vol. i.). Various tertiary mani- festations in the form of ulcers and gummata occur on the lips, and are liable to be mistaken for epitheliomata. Tumours.—Ncevi are not uncommon on the lips. When con- fined to the mucous surface they may be dissected out, but when they invade the skin they are best treated by electrolysis. Lymphangioma.—The term macrocheilia is applied to a con- genital hypertrophy of the lips (Fig. 36), which is probably of the nature of a lymphangioma (Middeldorpff). One or both lips may be affected. The lip is protruded, the mucous membrane everted, and, when the lower lip is implicated, it becomes pendu- lous and is liable to ulcerate. The substance of the lip is uni- formly firm and rigid, so that it moves in one piece, and sucking, mastication, and phonation are interfered with. Fig. 36.—Macrocheilia. (From a photograph lent by Mr. Stiles.)