443 FISCAL ACCUMULATION. the bowel; more often it is gradual, the features resembling those of stricture. In some cases the constipation simply increases until it becomes absolute. The diagnosis is often diffi- cult in tumours with a pedicle, as twisting of the latter may simulate obstruction. Treatment must be directed not only to the condition of the bowel, but to the tumour causing the pres- sure. In the case of large tumours, such as an ovarian cyst, it may be necessary to remove or empty the tumour before the condition of the bowel can be investigated. Faecal Accumulation. — Considering the frequency of ob- stinate constipation, it is remarkable that faecal accumulation is so rarely a cause of obstruction. It would appear that when obstruction does occur it is due to some additional factor, probably in the near vicinity of the rectum, such as bending or torsion of the sigmoid flexure, from its being unequally loaded with masses of hardened faeces. Such variations from the normal arrangement of the bowel, as pouching of the caecum so that it hangs down into the pelvis, looping of the transverse colon into a V with its apex hanging down to the symphysis, or undue length of the sigmoid, so that when loaded it gravitates into the pouch of Douglas, also favour the occurrence of obstruc- tion. Several of these factors may be combined in the production of this form of obstruction. The accumulation of faecal matter may be enormous, and the colon may be so distended as to fill the greater part of the abdomen. The caecum especially suffers from distension, and its mucous membrane may be extensively ulcerated and the bowel be actually perforated. Faecal accumu- lation is met with after middle life, and is said to be most common in women. The history is not unlike that met with in malignant stricture, only it is much longer, and dates back many years. The patient has all his life been troubled with constipa- tion, and may have had previous threatenings of obstruction with colicky pains and distension, which were tided over by enemata, and were followed by intervals of comparative well- being. Such patients have an unhealthy appearance, the outcome of chronic intoxication from the absorption of the products of decomposition within the bowel. The distension may be so great as to displace the diaphragm and cause embar- rassment of the heart and lungs. Vomiting is not a prominent feature, and rarely becomes stercoraceous. The rectum is usually found to be full of hard faecal masses. With regard to treatment it is to be noted that the condition of the patient may be as urgent as in those forms of obstruction which call for laparotomy. The chief aim is to empty the