THE PERITONEUM. 320 turbances, as from the rotation of the pedicle of a wandering spleen or of an ovarian cyst. So long [as organisms are excluded, the reactive changes take the form of a serous or fibrinous exudation, and are recovered from with or without the formation of adhesions. If, however, the disturbance of circulation and nutrition is so great as to permit of the passage of bacteria through the wall of the bowel, the characters of the lesion are altered and merge into those of septic peritonitis. When the peritoneum has been stimulated to reaction for some time—in other words, when it is chronically inflamed—it appears to be more tolerant of minor degrees of septic infection than it is in its normal state. It may be said that it has become immune, and is provided with the means of combating bacterial infection. Under these conditions it is found to tolerate operative interference better than in its normal state. Septic Peritonitis.—When the peritoneum is infected with virulent organisms and these gain the upper hand, the condition of septic peritonitis ensues. If the infective material is abundant or exceptionally virulent, the patient may be poisoned and die before reactive changes have time to occur. This condition is termed peritoneal intoxication or septicaemia. It has hitherto been believed that the organisms chiefly concerned are the colon bacillus and the streptococcus pyogenes, but recent observations appear to show that anaerobic organisms of the pyogenic class are probably responsible for many cases of peritoneal infection. The gonococcus, the pneumococcus, and the organism of acute rheumatism are less frequently concerned in peritoneal infections. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a mixed infection. In some cases, especially those originating from lesions of the Fallopian tubes, the pus is found to be sterile. In investigating the organisms in any given case of peritonitis it is better to make cultivations from the lymph than from the fluid exudation. Etiology.—Points of Origin of Septic Peritonitis.—Infection may originate in any of the organs which are covered by, or are adjacent to the peritoneum, but the gastro-intestinal canal surpasses all the others in the frequency with which it is the starting-point of peritonitis. Practically any lesion of the stomach or bowel which is attended with inflammation or ulceration is liable to be the starting-point of peritoneal infection. Lesions of the vermiform appendix rank first in order of frequency. Among other lesions may be instanced perforating ulcer of the stomach or duodenum,