SCALP WOUNDS. 3 bone. This is oftenest seen in newly-born children as a result of pressure on the head during delivery, and is characterised by its limitation to one particular bone—usually the parietal—the further spread of the blood being checked by the attachment of the periosteum at the sutures. Occasionally a permanent thickening of the edges of the bone remains after the absorption of the extravasated blood. This condition is to be diagnosed from traumatic cephal-hydrocele. Wounds of the Scalp.—The factors which determine the clinical importance of scalp wounds are their septicity and their depth. So long as a scalp wound, however extensive, is kept free from bacteria, it involves comparatively little risk to the patient • but the introduction of septic organisms into even the most trivial wound is fraught with danger, on account of the ease and rapidity with which infection may spread along the emissary veins to the meninges and intracranial sinuses. The deeper the wound, the greater is the risk. If the epicranial aponeurosis be divided, the “ dangerous area ” between it and the pericranium is opened, and the greatest care is necessary to prevent bacterial infection, which, if it occur, may lead to widespread and dangerous suppuration. Should the wound extend through the pericranium, septic infection is more liable to spread to the bone and to the cranial contents. The usual varieties of wounds—incised, punctured, contused, and lacerated—are met with in the scalp, and they vary in degree from a simple superficial cut to complete avulsion of the whole scalp. For medico-legal purposes it is important to remember that a scalp wound produced by the stroke of a blunt weapon, such as a stick or baton, may closely simulate a clean- cut wound. Scalp wounds present certain clinical peculiarities; for example, on account of the density of the integument and its close connection with the aponeurosis, they do not gape, unless the epicranial aponeurosis is widely divided. This facilitates union in clean incised wounds, but interferes with drainage in the long narrow tracts which result from punctures, and which are so liable to be infected and to implicate the sub- aponeurotic space, the periosteum, or even the bone. It also favours the inclusion of a foreign body, such as the broken point of an instrument, in the wound. Bleeding is profuse and difficult to control, because the vessels, fixed as they are in the dense subcutaneous tissue, cannot retract and contract so as to bring about the natural arrest of haemorrhage, and it is difficult to apply forceps or ligatures to their cut ends. On