STRICTURE. G39 Treatment.—Rest in bed, with frequent hip baths and vaginal douches, constitute the most important elements in treatment. In the intervals between the douches the opposed mucous surfaces are kept apart by gauze saturated in boro-glyceride, ichthyol, glycerine, or protargol solution. If the urethra is involved the measures employed in the male are indicated. When the cervix uteri is affected applications must be made directly to it. Stricture of the Urethra. The term stricture is applied to any condition in which the lumen of the urethra is narrowed. According to the nature and cause of the narrowing, a stricture is spoken of as spasmodic, congestive, or cicatricial. Spasmodic stricture affects chiefly the membranous urethra, and is due to spasm of the compressor urethrae muscle. The spasm comes on suddenly, and may be excited by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra itself, or reflexly by lesions at a distance, such, for example, as an operation for piles. Sometimes it is of central nervous origin, as in conditions of fright or hysteria. It causes retention of urine, which, although attended with discomfort and distress, is rarely followed by over- distension and paresis of the bladder. The treatment is directed towards allaying the spasm by means of hot fomentations, hot baths, and rectal suppositories of morphin and belladonna. Failing relief, the water is drawn off with a soft rubber or black olivary catheter (No. 8-10); the instrument is first resisted and then firmly grasped by the urethral muscles, but by steady pressure it can be pushed on into the bladder. Congestive or inflammatory stricture is met with chiefly in gonorrhoea when the infection has spread to the posterior urethra; the lumen of the urethra is encroached upon by the oedematous and congested mucous membrane, and this may be aggravated by spasm of the extrinsic muscles. As it is undesir- able to pass a catheter because of the risk of carrying the infection to the bladder, an attempt should first be made to relieve the retention by rectal suppositories and hot baths, or by aspiration above the pubes. Cicatricial or “ Organic ” Stricture.—This, by far the most important variety of stricture, is due to the formation and subsequent contraction of scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, causing narrowing of the lumen and rigidity of the affected