THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 24 Contusion and Laceration of the Brain. Contusion and laceration of the brain are present to a greater or less extent in almost every injury to the head in which brain symptoms appear. These lesions are usually most severe and dangerous when the skull is fractured and the fragments driven in upon the brain, but they may exist—indeed they may be very extensive—in the absence of any fracture. It has already been mentioned that the symptoms of cerebral concussion are almost invariably associated with the presence of numerous petechial haemor- rhages scattered widely through- out the brain substance. In such cases, after the initial shock has passed off, the pulse and respiration are usually accelerated for a time and the temperature raised. In more severe cases there are often several visible areas of extravasation, most com- monly into the grey matter of the cortex (Fig. 4). These foci vary in size from a split- pea to a hazel-nut, and consist of a central zone of extra- vasated blood, surrounded by an area of red softening of the brain matter, beyond which are numerous minute capillary These intra-cerebral lesions may be accompanied by an effusion of blood into the meshes of the arachno-pial mem- brane, and they may occur either at the part of the head struck, or at the opposite pole of the axis of percussion—the so-called point of contre-coup. Such effusions are sometimes the origin of haemorrhagic cysts. The symptoms vary with the size and site of the extravasations. It is probable that the phenomena of “ cerebral irritation ” are due to this condition when the haemorrhages are widely scattered through the cerebral cortex. Effusions into the cortical motor centres give rise to irritation or paralysis of the muscles affected. Different forms of aphasia, interference with vision or with hearing, follow implication of the centres governing these functions. In the pre-frontal, and in the lower temporal convolutions no special symptoms seem to Fig. 4. — Laceration of the Brain, showing sub-arachnoid and cortical haemorrhages. lnemorrhages.