531 CANCEE the mucous membrane covering the growth ulcerates, and the tumour fungates towards the bowel, forming an irregular, crater- like surface which bleeds readily. The edges of the ulcer are raised and indurated. As the tumour increases in size it forms adhesions to surrounding viscera—notably the bladder, prostate, and vagina—and to the pelvic walls, and in this way the rectum becomes unduly fixed. In the early stages the adhesions are for the most part inflammatory—a point of importance in regard to the question of excision of the growth. The growth may invade, either by direct spread or through the medium of an abscess, the bladder or vagina, and so establish a recto- vesical or recto-vaginal fistula. In some cases an ischio-rectal abscess forms, and, after burst- ing, leaves an intract- able form of fistula-in- ano. The lymphatic glands in the hollow of the sacrum, and those lying alongside the lum- bar vertebras, are enlarged at an early stage of the disease; the en- largement, however, is not neces- sarily malignant, but in the early stages may be the result of septic Fl0. 121.—Colloid Cancer of the infection. The glands may press Rectum in a boy, set. 12J, causing upon the lumbar and sacral nerves, obstruction of the bowels and and give rise to severe neuralgic pressure on the urethra, which led pains resembling sciatica. I he enlarged sacral glands may sometimes be recognised on digital examination of the rectum, and the lumbar glands by palpation through the abdominal wall. Metastatic growths most frequently occur in the liver and lungs, but may appear in any part of the body. Clinical Features.—Cancer of the rectum is a disease chiefly of adult life, but is occasionally met with in patients consider- ably below twenty (Fig. 121). It is rather more common in men than in women. In the early stages of its growth the tumour gives rise to no characteristic symptoms. The first thing to arrest the patient’s attention is an increasing difficulty in keeping the bowels regular, which necessitates the taking of