DISLOCATION OF JAW. 155 is the best. It consists of a stout nickelled-iron or silver-wire frame, which is accurately moulded so as to surround several teeth on each side of the fracture. Loops of wire are then passed between the individual teeth and round the frame so that the splint is divided into a series of compartments, each of which contains a tooth. To obtain the most satisfactory results with this appliance the aid of an expert dentist is necessary. The method of applying loops of wire round the teeth on each side of the fracture is open to the objections that it fails to secure complete and absolute apposition, and that the teeth are liable to be loosened or displaced. In rare cases it is necessary to wire the bone. Even in badly united fractures the original contour of the bone is eventually restored by the movements of the tongue moulding it into shape. Affections of the Temporo-maxillary Articulation. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—Dislocation of the lower jaw may be unilateral or bilateral. The bilateral form is the more common, and is met with most frequently in middle life and in females. The liability to dislocation is greatest when the mouth is widely open—for example, in yawning, laughing, or vomiting—as under these conditions the condyle, accompanied by the meniscus, passes forwards out of the glenoid cavity and rests on the summit of the articular eminence. If, while the bone is in this position, the external pterygoid muscle is thrown into contraction, it pulls the condyle forward over the eminence into the hollow beneath the root of the zygoma, and the con- traction of the masseter and temporal muscles retains it there. The majority of bilateral dislocations are in this way due to muscular contraction. Dislocation may also be produced by a downward blow on the chin, by the unskilful introduction of a mouth gag, particu- larly if the patient is anaesthetised, or even in the attempt to take a big bite—say, of an apple. From such causes the dis- location is usually unilateral. In some patients the ligaments of the joint are unnaturally lax, and dislocation is liable to occur repeatedly from compara- tively slight causes—recurrent dislocation. Clinical Features.—The appearance of a patient suffering from bilateral dislocation is very characteristic. The mouth is open, the jaw fixed, and the chin protruded so that the lower teeth project beyond those of the upper jaw. The patient has diffi-