152 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. membrane on to the gum divided, and the jaw thus exposed. The body of the jaw is divided by means of a Gigli wire-saw passed between two teeth. The knife is then carried along the inner side of the bone to divide the attachments of the genio- hyoid, genio-hyoglossus, digastric, mylo-hyoid and internal pterygoid muscles, the mucous membrane, and the inferior dental vessels and nerve. The jaw is then depressed to expose the coronoid process in order that the temporal insertion may be divided. Finally the condyle is disarticulated by dividing the external pterygoid tendon and the ligaments of the joint, care being taken to avoid injuring the internal maxillary artery as it lies between the neck of the condyle and the internal lateral ligament. After all haemorrhage has been arrested, the flap is replaced and stitched in position. The tongue should be trans- fixed with a loop of strong silk to prevent it falling back into the pharynx and interfering with respiration. The after-treatment is the same as for excision of the upper jaw. Injuries of the Jaws. Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—Fractures of the upper jaw are nearly always due to direct violence, such as a blow on the face, a stab, or a gunshot wound. They are usually rendered compound by opening into the mouth, into the antrum of High- more, or on to the skin of the cheek. The alveolar process, in whole or in part, may be separated from the body of the bone by a severe blow, such as the kick of a horse. When the whole alveolus is detached, it may carry with it the hard palate. Limited portions of the alveolus are frequently broken in the extraction of teeth. The main trouble after severe alveolar fractures is that the upper teeth do not accurately oppose the lower ones, and mastication is thereby interfered with. When the nasal portion of the superior maxilla is broken, the lachrymal sac and nasal duct may be damaged and the flow of the tears obstructed. In such cases emphysema is also liable to develop. Fractures of the facial portion are frequently compli- cated by haemorrhage from the infraorbital vessels and anaesthesia of the area supplied by the infraorbital nerve. Suppuration may occur in the antrum later. In some cases the upper jaw is driven in as a whole, and in others the fracture radiates to the base of the skull and cerebral symptoms develop. The treatment consists in reducing any deformity which may be present, ensuring efficient drainage, and keeping the mouth as aseptic as possible. Union takes place very rapidly, and