170 THE TONGUE. Treatment of Inoperable Cases.—When the disease is so wide- spread that removal by operation is impracticable, palliative treatment alone is available. The mouth must be kept as sweet as possible. The pain may be relieved to some extent by cocain or orthoform, but as a rule the free administration of morphin is called for. If haemorrhage takes place from the ulcerated surface and cannot be controlled by adrenalin, turpentine, or other local styptics, it may be necessary to ligature the lingual, or even the external carotid artery. Interference with respiration may necessitate tracheotomy. When the taking of food causes much pain, recourse should be had to rectal feeding. Pain shooting up to the ear may be relieved by resection of the lingual nerve. Sarcoma.—Sarcoma of the tongue is rare. The small-celled, the round-celled, and the lympho-sarcoma are the varieties usually met with. Some show little tendency to recur after removal, while others are extremely malignant. The diagnosis is always difficult, and is seldom made unless a portion of the growth has been removed and examined microscopically. Innocent tumours of the tongue are rare. Lipomata, fibro- mata, and various forms of angiomata are occasionally met with. They are all of slow growth, and only give rise to inconvenience by their bulk. Papillomata may occur on any part of the tongue, and at any age. When associated with leucoplakia they are liable to assume malignant characters. Cysts.—Dermoid cysts occasionally occur beneath the tongue. They lie in the middle line, between the genio- hyoglossi, and on the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid. They may be noticed soon after birth, or may only attract attention during adult life. The cyst usually projects under the chin, forming a soft fluctuating swelling, which varies in size from a pigeon’s to a turkey’s egg. When they bulge towards the mouth, they are recognised by their yellow colour and by their mesial position from retention cysts of the salivary glands, which are purplish and lie to one side of the middle line. They are treated by excision. Hydatid and cysticercus cysts have also been met with. Thyro-glossal Cysts and Tumours.—Cysts and solid tumours may develop in the embryonic tract which passes from the isthmus of the thyroid gland to the foramen caecum at the base of the tongue—the so-called thyro-glossal duct. The solid tumours have the same structure as the thyroid gland, and in some cases they attain considerable size and appear to be