13 CEREBRAL LOCALISATION. Cliiene is free from many of the difficulties and fallacies common to most other methods inasmuch as the results obtained do not depend upon making definite measurements in inches, or determining particular angles. Certain fixed and easily recognised bony landmarks--the glabella, the external occipital protuberance, the external angular process, and the root of the zygoma—are taken, and connected by lines, which aie further subdivided — always beiny bisected. Tigs. 2, 3 explain the method. The head being shaved, a line (GO) is drawn along the vertex from the glabella (G) to the external occipital protuberance (0). This line is bisected in M, which constitutes the “mid-point.” The posterior half of the line MO is bisected in T, constituting the “three-quarters point,” and the posterior half of TO is bisected in S—the “seven-eighths point.” The external angular process (E) is next connected to the root of the zygoma (P) by a line EP, and the root of the zygoma with the seven- eighths point by PS ; the line EPS thus forms the base line. The Fig. 3.—Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation. external angular process is now joined to the three-quarters point by ET. The two segments of the base line EP and PS are bisected in N and R respectively, and these points connected with the mid-point (M) by lines FTM and RM. These lines cut off a part of ET—AB, which is now bisected in C, and from C the line CD is drawn parallel to AM. In this way practically all the points of the brain which are wanted for operative purposes may be mapped out. Thus the quadrilateral MDCA contains the Rolandic area. MA represents the precentral sulcus, and, if it be trisected in K and L, these points will correspond to the origins of the superior and inferior frontal sulci. The pentagon ABRPN corresponds to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The apex of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe extends a little in front of N. The supra- marginal convolution lies in the triangle HBC. The angular gyrus is at B. A is over the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery, and the bifurcation of the Sylvian fissure ; AC follows the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. The lateral sinus at its highest point touches the line PS at R. The fissure of Rolando may be marked out by taking a point half an inch behind the mid-point (M) (Fig. 3), and drawing a line downwards