THE HOSE AND NASO-PHABYNX. 204 In infants a purulent discharge from both nostrils may be due to gonorrhoeal infection or to inherited syphilis. Nasal discharge may be constant or intermittent. It is sometimes influenced by changes in posture; for example, it may be chiefly complained of at the back of the nose and in the throat when the patient occupies the horizontal position, or it may flow from the nostril when the patient bends his head forward or to one side. The discharge may be intra-nasal in origin, or due altogether to naso- pharyngeal catarrh. It varies somewhat in colour and con- sistence, and may be associated with such intra-nasal conditions as purulent rhinitis following scarlet fever and other exanthemata, or ulceration accompanying malignant disease, syphilis, or tuberculosis. Sometimes it contains shreds of false membrane, for example, in nasal diphtheria; or white cheesy masses as in coryza caseosa. The formation of crusts is significant of foetid atrophic rhinitis (ozama) and syphilis, and in these last-named conditions the discharge is associated with a most objectionable and distinctive foetor. Pus from the maxillary sinus is often foetid, and the odour is noticed by the patient; while the odour of ozama is not recognised by the patient, although very obvious to others. Foreign bodies of various descriptions have been met with in the nasal cavities, particularly of children. They set up suppura- tion and give rise to a unilateral discharge which is often offensive in character. The surgeon must not be satisfied with the history given by the parents, but with the aid of good illumination, and in young children under general anaesthesia the nose should be carefully inspected and probed. If there is much swelling, the introduction of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain will facilitate the examination by diminishing the conges- tion of the mucous membrane. No attempt should be made to remove a foreign body from the nose by syringing. If fluid be injected into the obstructed nostril, it is liable to force the body further back, while if injected into the free nostril, it is apt to accumulate in the naso-pharynx and thus to pass into the Eustachian tubes. A fine hook should be passed behind the body and traction made upon it, or sinus forceps or a snare may be employed. Care must be taken that the body is not pushed still deeper into the cavity. Fungi and parasites should first be killed with injections of chloroform water or by making the patient inhale chloroform vapour. Rhinoliths.—Concretions having a plug of inspissated mucus or a small foreign body as a nucleus sometimes form in the nose. They are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and