GENERAL PERITONITIS. 321 intestinal ulcers, foreign bodies ulcerating through the gut, traumatic ruptures, various forms of enteritis, changes in the bowel associated with strictures and congenital diverticula of the intestine, circulatory disturbances resulting in damage to the wall of the gut and rendering it pervious to the passage of organisms, as for example in strangulation of the borvel, volvulus or intussusception, and in cases of obstruction of the mesenteric blood-vessels. Organs intimately related to the intestinal canal, such as the gall-bladder, liver, and pancreas, may become the seat of infective inflammation which may extend to the peritoneum, as for ex- ample the inflammatory complications of gall-stones, suppurating hydatid cysts, abscess of the liver, or suppurative pancreatitis. The female organs of generation, and especially the uterus and Fallopian tubes, frequently prove the starting-point of peritonitis, particularly by the spread of infections related to the puerperium and to abortion. Less frequently peritonitis takes origin from infective lesions of the spleen, the mesenteric glands, the urinary organs, adjacent serous cavities such as the pleura or pericardium, the umbilicus in newly-born children, and from infective conditions of the abdominal wall. When infection occurs in relation to penetrating wounds or abdominal operations, the organisms are either introduced from without or are liberated from the alimentary tract. In the latter case it is not necessary that the lumen of the tract be opened ; it is sufficient that the wall of the bowel be so damaged as to render it pervious to organisms. In a small minority of cases it is not possible to discover any antecedent lesion to account for the peritonitis. It is possible that some of these so-called “idiopathic” cases result from infection through the blood-stream, as for example in peritonitis of pneumococcal origin. The extent and characters of the peritonitis vary with the conditions which attend infection of the membrane. If the organisms have it all their own way the infection spreads widely, and a generalised or diffuse peritonitis ensues; if on the other hand the tissues are in a position to react, they may succeed in limiting the infection, and a localised or circumscribed peritonitis results. Generalised or Diffuse Peritonitis.—This acute and fre- ! quently fatal disease is met with under conditions in which the infective agent is introduced in such quantity, or in such an |i active form, that the efforts of the tissues to combat it are ineffective. VOL. 11—21 .