245 CARCINOMA OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Clinical Features.—In their general characters the clinical features resemble those of cicatricial stricture. Dysphagia is the most prominent symptom. It usually comes on gradually, but in some cases is quite sudden in onset. It differs from the dysphagia due to cicatricial stricture in that it is often markedly intermittent. This may be due to a projecting mass of tumour growth becoming displaced, or more probably to a temporary diminution of congestion and relaxation of spasm, which play an important part in causing the dysphagia. There is regurgita- tion of food, which is mixed with blood and discharge from the tumour. In some cases there is actual vomiting of the stomach contents, which adds greatly to the patient’s discomfort. There is excessive salivation, and as the patient cannot swallow the saliva he has constantly to expectorate. Sharp lancinating pain is usually complained of behind the sternum, in the epigastrium, or between the shoulders. The patient seldom complains of actual hunger, even when the amount of food which enters the stomach is exceedingly small. Persistent cough and dyspnoea are present when the tumour invades the air-passages ; when the recurrent laryngeal nerve is implicated there is cough, hoarseness of the voice, and aphonia. Severe and even fatal haemorrhage may follow the erosion of large blood-vessels. Among the other complications which ensue when the tumour spreads beyond the oesophagus are cellulitis, pleurisy, pneumonia, and pericarditis. The patient emaciates out of all proportion to the interfer- ence with taking food, and usually dies within twelve months of the onset of symptoms from starvation, septic absorption, or left-sided empyema. The diagnosis may be confirmed by the use of a bougie, but great care is necessary in passing the instrument lest the wall of the oesophagus be perforated. Auscultation over the left side of the spine while the patient swallows fluid may be of some value in diagnosis. Treatment.—Complete excision of the malignant disease is impossible except in cases in which it is seated in the upper end of the tube. The treatment, therefore, is entirely palliative, and is directed towards securing that the patient shall have sufficient nourishment and shall be relieved of suffering. The systematic use of bougies to dilate the stricture and permit of the patient swallowing food and saliva is attended with considerable risk, and is not to be recommended. Intubation.—In suitable cases—that is, cases in which the tumour is low down in the oesophagus and the lumen is not