SPINA BIFIDA. 103 furrow over the surface of the swelling. After withdrawal of some of the fluid the cord can sometimes be palpated. It is, however, often very difficult to distinguish between a meningocele and a meningo-myelocele. Gentle pressure applied over the swelling may reduce its size, and in young children may cause a bulging of the fontanelles. This test, however, must be applied with caution as it is liable to induce convulsions. It is usually possible to palpate the edges of the gap in the bones. Sometimes there are no nervous disturbances, and this is especially the case when the defect is in the lower lumbar and sacral regions beyond the termination of the cord. In most cases, however, there are paralytic symptoms referable to the lower extremities, the bladder and the rectum, and there may also be trophic disturbances in the parts below. Paralytic symptoms, although absent in infancy, may develop during childhood or adolescence. Prognosis. — Comparatively few children born with spina bifida survive longer than four or five years. The great majority die within a few weeks of birth, death being due to the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, or to septic infection setting up spinal meningitis. The condition in some cases remains stationary for years, but spontaneous disappearance is rare. Treatment.—The great majority of cases of spina bifida only call for palliative treatment, which consists in applying an accurately fitting shield and a pad of soft antiseptic wool, and, if the surface is broken, a mild antiseptic dressing. Operative treatment is indicated only in robust or moder- ately robust children when the swelling is increasing rapidly and is threatening to burst, and when there is reason to believe that the paralysis is due to pressure. Patients who have survived the early risks and have reached adolescence also may be operated upon. The operation consists in exposing the neck of the sac by an elliptical incision and isolating the sac. In the case of a meningocele a ligature is applied round the neck of the sac, the sac cut away, and the opening closed in such a way as to prevent escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. In the case of a meningo-myelocele the nerves are separated from the inner aspect of the sac and returned to the spinal canal before the sac is excised. To prevent the cerebro-spinal fluid escaping during the operation, the patient’s pelvis should be well raised while the sac is being dealt with. The gap in the bone may be bridged across by flaps of periosteum or by pieces of bone taken from the adjacent laminae