398 THE STOMACH. of gastric ulcer. It may threaten life by repeatedly recurring at short intervals, and producing profound anaemia. In such cases the bleeding is usually from capillaries, and is controlled by medical measures. Sometimes, however, it is necessary to perform gastro-enterostomy to enable the ulcer to heal, and thus prevent these recurrent haemorrhages. A more serious form of gastrorrhagia is that which results from erosion of a large artery exposed on the base of the ulcer— for example, the coronary or splenic artery. Copious bleeding from a large vein is less common. In some cases capillary oozing is sufficiently profuse to prove rapidly fatal, and even on post-mortem examination the source of the bleeding may not be discoverable. As it is comparatively rare for a first haemorrhage to prove fatal, medical measures should usually be tried before recourse is had to surgical treatment, but if the bleeding persists or recurs, operation is called for. If, on exposing the stomach, the position of the ulcer can be recognised, the incision in the gastric wall should be made close to it; if not, an incision is made about the middle of the accessible portion of the stomach, and the interior of the organ systematically explored. If the ulcer is found on the anterior wall or lesser curva- ture, close to the pylorus, it should be excised, and the bleeding vessels secured by ligatures. If it is on the posterior wall, or high up near the cardiac end, and if the bleeding is taking place from a large, eroded vessel, it may be arrested by the cautery (Mikulicz). When no bleeding point can be discovered, or when the patient is very feeble and amende, gastro-enterostomy should be per- formed. Several pints of saline fluid should be introduced into the peritoneal cavity before closing the abdomen, or infused into a vein or into the subcutaneous tissue, and other means taken to counteract shock. Rectal injections of saline fluid every few hours are useful in restoring the circulation. Perforation.—Perforation is a comparatively common com- plication. It occurs most frequently in anaemic young women, but may be met with in adults of either sex and of any age. The ulcers which most frequently perforate are those situated in the anterior wall of the stomach near the pylorus or lesser curvature, and those towards the cardiac end. It has been estimated that in about 20 per cent, of cases there is more than one perforation. The perforation varies in size from a pin-point opening to a hole large enough to admit the tip of the little finger. The edges of the aperture are usually sharply defined and slightly indurated, and a variable area of the surrounding stomach wall is thick and rigid. The perforation may occur directly on to the free surface