THE URINARY BLADDER, 584 in the pelvis, and even when distended does not rise so freely into the abdomen. In the child, it occupies relatively a much higher level, and even when empty its anterior aspect is usually in contact with the abdominal wall, and is therefore more liable to be cut into in performing a median laparotomy below the navel than in the adult. The “space of Retzius ” is the name given to the area in front of the bladder which is occujhed by loose, mobile, fatty lobules, which are easily moulded and displaced as the bladder fills up from below. The space is limited in front by the pubes, above by the peritoneal reflec- tion, and behind by the bladder ; laterally it is continued into the general space occupied by the extra-peritoneal fat, and below with the cellular tissue of the pelvis. The capacity and relations of the space are best recognised in cases of extravasation of urine from rupture of the anterior wall of the bladder below the peritoneal reflection. The bladder receives an abundant blood-supply through the vesical arteries. The lymphatics form a network in the submucous and muscular Fig. 137.—Over-distended Bladder forming an Abdominal Tumour. coats, and communicate with those which surround the prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens, and terminal portions of the ureters. So long as the epithelial covering of the mucous membrane is intact there is no absorption from the bladder, this being in marked contrast with the urethra, which absorbs with remarkable rapidity. In the absence of inflammation the mucous membrane is but slightly sensitive to contact—except in the region of the neck—hence a foreign body or a stone may be present without giving rise to symptoms, and the contact of instruments employed for exploration is scarcely appreciated except while passing through the neck. Methods of Examination.—A careful physical, chemical, microscopical and bacteriological examination of the urine should be made in all cases, as information is thereby obtained which may be of great value in diagnosis and treatment. The first portion of urine passed is liable to be contaminated with epithelium, pus cells, or bacteria as it passes through a diseased or inflamed urethra. It may therefore be necessary to draw off the urine through a sterile catheter, or to have recourse to what is known