665 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTIS. in its mode of onset, closely simulates an acute gonorrhoeal epididymitis. It may occur at any age, and is attended with pain and swelling of the parts and effusion into the tunica vaginalis. In the course of a few days the pain abates and the fluid in the tunica vaginalis disappears, but the testicular swelling persists, and the gland is usually destroyed by suppura- tion in two or three weeks. Chronic tuberculous disease is much more common. It may be the first manifestation of tuberculosis exhibited by the patient, but is more frequently secondary, occurring in associa- tion with disease of the prostate, bladder or kidney, pulmonary ] >hthisis, or some other tuberculous affection. In young children it occasionally occurs in association with tuberculous peritonitis, infection taking place along the processus vaginalis. Infection may take place from a distant focus of tubercle by way of the blood or lymph stream, or by direct spread from the urethra or prostate along the vas deferens. The disease may remain confined to the epididymis, but as a rule it spreads sooner or later to the body of the testis. In rare cases the body of the testis alone is involved. Clinical Features.—The disease is most commonly met with in patients between twenty and thirty years of age, in whom there is either some active tuberculous disease, or some tendency to tubercle—inherited or acquired. It frequently occurs, how- ever, in men of good physique who are otherwise perfectly healthy. There is often a history of some injury to the testis, or of a gonorrhoeal urethritis. The affection usually attacks only one testis, but both may be involved consecutively. The first evidence of the disease is the formation of a small, firm nodule, either in the globus minor or in the globus major, but this being painless is often overlooked or neglected. Other nodules form, and, after increasing in size, run together so that the epididymis becomes enlarged and nodulated and forms an irregular, crescentic swelling on the back of the testis. The individual nodules vary in size from a pea to a walnut. Some are firm, while others are soft and fluctuating. When the body of the testis is invaded, the nodules form first at the liilum, and spread in lines which radiate into the substance of the gland. By the coalescence of adjacent nodules an irregular caseous mass is formed. The vas deferens may be thickened and infiltrated with tubercle throughout its whole length, but as a rule the disease is limited to its two extremities. On rectal examination the seminal vesicles may be found to be enlarged and nodular from the disease having spread to them.