CATHETERS. 585 as “ the three glass test.” This consists in making the patient pass the first portion of urine into one glass, the next portion into a second glass, and the last portion into a third glass. The glasses should be sterilised before being used. When the bladder is over-distended it forms a visible tumour in the middle line above the pubes. Percussion usually elicits a dull note over a distended bladder, but may prove mis- leading, especially in corpulent subjects and in flaccid condi- tions of the bladder muscle. The bladder may be palpated when it projects above the pubes, and by the rectum or vagina. A bimanual examination gives most information, and should be conducted under anaesthesia in the case of children, and when the muscles are rigid in adults. The rectal finger comes in contact with the prostate in the middle line, above it with the base of the bladder, and on each side with the seminal vesicle. In the female the urethra may be dilated and the little finger inserted into the bladder; with the other hand above the pubes successive areas of the bladder may be accurately palpated. Catheters.—A catheter is a hollow instrument employed to draw off the contents of the bladder. It may be made of pure rubber, gum-elastic material, or silk covered with shellac, or of metal or glass. In general terms it may be said that where there is no obstruction in the urethra one made of pure rubber is to be preferred, because it is readily sterilised by boiling, and is least likely to injure the mucous membrane of the urethra. In using a catheter every means must be taken to prevent septic infection. The operator’s hands must be disinfected or protected with sterile gloves. The meatus and glans are cleansed, and the penis, after being wrapped round with sterile gauze, is drawn through an aper- ture in a sterile towel. The anterior urethra is irrigated with boracic solution by means of a glass-barrelled syringe provided with an acorn-shaped urethral nozzle. The material used for lubricating the catheter is best carried in a collapsible tube, from which the required amount is expressed on to sterile gauze, and transferred to the catheter. Sterilised vaseline, glycerine, or soap are the materials commonly employed. Rubber, glass, and metal catheters are sterilised by boiling, or by prolonged immersion and washing through with carbolic solution (1 in 20); gum-elastic catheters by suspension in formalin vapour or pro- longed immersion in corrosive sublimate (1-1000). Other methods of examining the bladder, such as the use of the sound, the electric cystoscope, and skiagraphy, will be described along with the diseases of the bladder. Malformations.—Extroversion of the Bladder—Ectopia