GENERAL PERITONITIS. 325 an absence of toxemic symptoms, and the pain, tenderness and rigidity are confined to the area involved. Among other con- ditions to be diagnosed from general peritonitis are ruptured tubal pregnancy, acute pancreatitis, the onset of acute pleuro- pneumonia, and diaphragmatic pleurisy. The prognosis varies with the nature and origin of the peritonitis. Diffuse peritonitis is always a grave disease. The more prominent the symptoms of general intoxication, the worse is the prognosis. Cases of peritoneal septicamiia are usually hopeless. When there is a decided reaction of the peritoneum the prospects are better, especially if the purulent exudate can be evacuated by operation. Treatment.—To rest the abdomen the patient must lie on his back with the knees flexed over a pillow, and with a cage over the body to support the.weight of the bed-clothes. As the stomach is incapable of absorbing nutriment, recourse should be had to rectal alimentation. In some cases the local applica- tion of an ice-bag or a cold coil affords relief, in others warm applications are more soothing. The administration of opium and belladonna relieves pain, rests the patient, and quiets the intestine, thus favouring the formation of adhesions which may localise the infection; it may, therefore, be of service in com- mencing peritonitis. At the same time it tends to mask the symptoms, and may thus establish a false idea of security on the part of the practitioner. In the later stages of peritonitis opium tends to increase the paralysis of the bowel. It is a good rule to withhold opium until a diagnosis has been made of the starting-point or cause of the peritonitis, in the event of this being one amenable to surgical interference. The patient may be much relieved by washing out the stomach with hot water, and so getting rid of its decomposing contents. The washing is continued until the fluid returns clear, and some of the water may be left behind to relieve thirst. This procedure, however, is contra-indicated in cases of gastric ulcer. The distension of the bowels may sometimes be relieved by rectal injections. The strength of the patient is to be supported by hypodermic injections of strychnin, strophanthus, or camphor, and by the repeated subcutaneous infusion of salt solution. The exhibition of aperient medicines is not only useless, but harmful, in generalised peritonitis. In peritonitis of strepto- coccal origin recourse may be had to the use of anti-strepto- coccic serum. Operative Treatment.—The rational treatment of diffuse septic