THE PERITONEUM. 338 to all forms of circumscribed intra-abdominal abscess, namely, pain, remittent fever, vomiting, progressive illness, with loss of appetite and strength. There is an increasing leucocytosis. The proximity of the abscess to the diaphragm may be indicated by a feeling of oppression and difficulty in taking a deep breath, and by pain over the lower ribs on one side radiating to the shoulder. There may also be tenderness and a degree of fulness over the lower intercostal spaces, The physical signs are somewhat complicated, and great importance attaches to their correct interpretation. In subphrenic abscess on the right side there is usually a dome-shaped extension of the liver dulness corresponding to the upward displacement of the diaphragm by the pus accumu- lated beneath it, and as the pus pushes the liver down, the liver dulness extends to a lower level than normally. Unless there is also an exudation of fluid into the pleura, the breath sounds are quite distinct immediately above the dull area. If there is gas as well as pus in the abscess, it may be possible to identify three zones, one above the other, which yield a different note on percussion—the lung resonance above, a zone of tym- panitic resonance in the middle, and a dulness below which corresponds to the pus and liver. When the abscess is on the left, side it nearly always contains gas; the left lobe of the liver is displaced downwards and the heart upwards. A large abscess frequently extends forwards and bulges the epigastrium and lower ribs. The following zones may be identified by percussing the thorax from above downwards :—Firstly, the lung resonance ; secondly, tympanitic resonance from the gas in the upper part of the subphrenic space; and, thirdly, dulness from the pus in the lower part of the space. If there is effusion into the pleura, a zone of dulness intervenes between the lung resonance and the tympanitic zone. Exploratory puncture is carried out by means of a fairly long needle connected with the aspirator. The needle is inserted where the tenderness and dulness are most marked ; its passage through the diaphragm may be recognised by the transmis- sion of respiratory movements. Commonly enough serum is aspirated from the pleura, and, when the needle is pushed in further, pus is obtained. If a single puncture is negative, the needle may be reinserted at different points. It is essential that the presence of pus be demonstrated before proceeding to incision and drainage, and this procedure should follow immediately on the exploratory puncture. The incision is planned so as to afford the most direct access to the cavity of