136 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. the early stages soothing antiseptic gargles are indicated. Later the inhalation of steam impregnated with the vapour of carbolic acid or friar’s balsam, and the application of hot fomentations to the neck, may afford some relief. If the pain is severe, a 5 per cent, solution of cocain may be sprayed over the back of the throat. When an abscess forms, it should be freely incised, care being taken that the edge of the knife is directed towards the middle line. After an attack of quinsy the patient is very weak and requires a course of tonic treatment. Convalescence is always slow. Hypertrophy of the Tonsils.—The most common form of hypertrophy of the tonsils is that met with in children between five and ten years of age. It is very often associated with adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharynx and chronic thicken- ing of the pharyngeal mucous membrane. Children of a lymphatic or scrofulous tendency, and children who are back- ward or mentally deficient, appear to be more predisposed to the condition than others. The whole tonsil is enlarged, the mucous membrane thickened, and the connective tissue more or less sclerosed. The crypts appear on the surface as deep clefts or fissures, and the lymph follicles are enlarged and prominent. Secretion accumulates in the crypts, and small calculi may form from the deposit of lime salts. Clinical Features.—-The hypertrophy is bilateral but not always symmetrical. Sometimes the tonsils project to such an extent as almost to meet in the middle line ; sometimes they scarcely pass beyond the level of the pillars of the fauces. They are usually sessile, but sometimes the base is so narrow as almost to form a pedicle, and the tonsil may hang down into the pharynx. The colour varies from a pale gray to a dull red. During childhood they are usually soft and spongy, but when they persist into adolescence or adult life they become firm and indurated. The repeated attacks of catarrhal or suppurative tonsillitis to which the patients are subject favour this sclerotic change. The lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw are frequently enlarged. Swallowing is sometimes interfered with, and the patient is liable to attacks of nausea and vomit- ing. Respiration is always more or less impeded. The patient breathes through the open mouth, and snores loudly during sleep. The hindrance to respiration interferes with the develop- ment of the chest. In some cases alarming suffocative attacks occasionally supervene during the night. The voice is character- istically thick and nasal, especially when adenoids are present in