689 BALANITIS. operations may be required to restore the shape and function of the organ. Inflammatory Affections—Balanitis.—The term balanitis is applied to an inflammation of the skin lining the prepuce and covering the glans. It is most common in patients who suffer from phimosis, and is due to septic infection and decomposition of accumulated smegma and epithelial debris retained in the preputial pouch. In gouty and diabetic patients, urine retained in the pouch may undergo decomposition and cause balanitis. The most severe forms occur in cases of gonorrhoea and sub-preputial chancre. After middle life a chronic form of balanitis some- times occurs, and is liable to be followed by carcinoma. Clinical Features.—There is persistent itching and burning pain in the prepuce and glans, and these parts become red, swollen, and oedematous, and from the orifice there escapes a peculiarly offensive discharge of yellow muco-purulent fluid. When the prepuce is tight the mucous membrane may become excoriated or even ulcerated. During micturition there is smart- ing pain in the prepuce. The inguinal glands are seldom enlarged. There is often some difficulty in determining whether the pus comes from the urethra or merely from the preputial pouch, and in such cases it may be necessary to slit up the pre- puce to settle the diagnosis between balanitis, gonorrhoea, and sub-preputial chancre. The treatment consists in thorough cleansing of the parts, the pouch being syringed out with a mild antiseptic lotion and kept clean and dry. Circumcision is often advisable to admit of thorough purification and to prevent recurrence. Lymphangitis of the penis sometimes results from balanitis— particularly of venereal origin. The lymphatic vessels become red, distended and swollen, and the main trunks stand out as firm cords on the dorsal aspect of the penis. Cellulitis may also result from balanitis, or may occur after injuries or operations on the penis, for example circumcision. It may spread to the scrotum and abdomen, and has in some cases proved fatal. Gangrene of the penis may result from such conditions as paraphimosis, phagadamic chancres, or septic infection of acci- dental or operation wounds. It is also met with in elderly men suffering from enlarged prostate or stricture, with septic changes in the urethra, and may occur as a sequel of acute infective fevers, such as typhoid or smallpox. In some cases, only the skin becomes gangrenous, but in others the whole thickness of the organ undergoes necrosis, and the distal portion is cast off VOL. II—44