HERNIA. 362 a change in the hernia ■' he may, for example, after a sudden effort experience the forcible descent of a larger mass of hernial contents, and observe a decided increase in the size of the hernia. There is an immediate difficulty in effecting reduction, and the hernia becomes tense, hard and painful. It is usually dull on percussion, as the result of exudation of fluid into the sac, and the expansile impulse on coughing is diminished or lost. Simul- taneously with these changes there is complaint of pain in the abdomen, usually referred to the region of the umbilicus. In some cases pain is the first symptom. The pain is very acute, with exacerbations of a colicky nature, causing the patient to stoop forward or compelling him to lie down. It is attended with sweating, with a feeling of coldness and collapse, and is nearly always followed by nausea and vomiting. The cessation of pain is usually an indication that gangrene has occurred. Shock is most pronounced in the small recent hernia of young adults. Sometimes it is entirely absent. The severity of the symptoms does not necessarily correspond with the gravity of the changes in the hernial contents, and the patient may be able to walk about although the bowel is already gangrenous. Vomiting is one of the most constant symptoms. At first the vomited matter merely consists of undigested food from the stomach. Later it is composed of the contents of the upper part of the small intestine, bile being a prominent constituent, and, finally, of the decomposing and foetid contents of the bowel above the loop engaged in the hernia. This dark brown or black, foul-smelling fluid is often described as “ faecal ” or “ stercor- accous,” under the impression that it contains faecal matter, but this is rarely, if ever, the case. As in other forms of intestinal obstruction, it is characteristic that the vomited matter is ejected without retching or appreciable effort. As a rule nothing is passed by the rectum, although an enema may bring away faecal matter from below the seat of obstruction. In a Richter’s hernia, and in a hernia in which only omentum is in the sac, the bowels may move. Unless the loop of bowel concerned is high up in the jejunum, the abdomen tends to become distended and rigid, and it may be tender on pressure. Peristaltic movements of individual coils of bowel are rarely observed unless the strangu- lation is not very tight and has lasted for several days. The temperature is usually subnormal, the pulse small and rapid, the face pale and drawn, and the expression anxious. There is great complaint of thirst, and the tongue is dry and brown. The urine, which usually contains albumen, is dark in colour and small in quantity.