IS THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. numerous minute petechial haemorrhages scattered widely throughout the brain substance. Colloid bodies, patches of miliary sclerosis, and pigmentary degeneration of nerve cells were found in a majority of the cases examined. Three theories have been put forward to explain the clinical features of concussion :—(1) That which supposes that the brain is thrown into a state of vibration which causes a temporary suspension of its functions, is on anatomical and physical grounds untenable. (2) It has been suggested that the capillary haemorrhages which are found throughout the brain substance produce the symptoms. The majority of observers reject this theory also, on the grounds that the number and extent of such haemorrhages bear no relation to the severity of the concussion symptoms, and that the lesions persist long after the symptoms have passed off. (3) The view of Duret is that most generally accepted. He ascribes the symptoms to stimulation of the restiform bodies by a fluid wave of cerebro-spinal fluid driven towards the base of the brain by the impact of the blow on the skull. This sudden stimulation of the restiform bodies induces a profound anaemia of the brain, to which the symptoms are directly attributable. The momentary increase in the tension of the cerebro-spinal fluid in every part of the brain accounts for the various pathological lesions already referred to. We have experimentally confirmed Duret’s observations, and agree with his conclusions. After-Effects of Concussion.—The majority of patients recover completely. A number complain for a time of headache, languor, muscular weakness, and incapacity for sustained effort. Sometimes there is a condition of mental instability, the patient is easily excited, and is unduly affected by alcohol or other stimulants. Occasionally there is permanent mental impairment. It is not uncommon to find that the patient has entirely forgotten the circumstances of the injury and of the events which immedi- ately preceded it. In some instances the memory is permanently impaired. On the other hand, it has occurred that a patient, after concussion, has recovered his memory of a foreign language long since forgotten. As it is never possible to determine the precise extent of the damage to the brain, the immediate prognosis, even in the mildest cases of concussion, should always be guarded. If the patient has been actually unconscious, the condition should be looked upon as a serious one, and treated accordingly. Treatment.—The immediate treatment consists in the appli- cation of warmth, and the administration of stimulants when