679 THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. clinically, as its signs are overshadowed by those of the orchitis or epididymitis with which it is associated. As a rule the fluid disappears as the primary inflammation subsides, and no special treatment is called for. In some cases suppuration ensues and incision is necessary. In rare instances the effusion persists and constitutes a chronic hydrocele. Chronic Hydrocele.—Several varieties of chronic hydrocele are recognised, according to the situation of the effused fluid. In the most common variety — the ordinary or acquired hydrocele — the fluid occupies and distends the cavity of the normal tunica vaginalis. In the congenital hydrocele, the fluid distends the tunica vaginalis and communicates with the peritoneal cavity through the processus vaginalis, which remains unobliterated. When the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded, and the fluid is confined to the tunica vaginalis and the unobliterated lower portion of the process, the condition is known as infantile hydrocele. The term inguinal hydrocele is applied when fluid collects in the tunica vaginalis of an imperfectly descended testis. The fluid in a chronic hydrocele is serous in character, con- tains about 6 per cent, of albumin and a small quantity of fibrinogen, and has a specific gravity of from 1022 to 1025. It does not coagulate spontaneously. It may be clear and watery, or of a pale straw or greenish colour. It often presents a glistening appearance from the presence of numerous shiny cholesterin crystals. According to the size of the hydro- cele the quantity of fluid varies from a few ounces to several pints. Sometimes fat or chyle is present in the fluid, and gives it a white, milky appearance—chylous hydrocele. This may be due to the presence of the filarm sanguinis hominis. The etiology of hydrocele is obscure. In a certain number of cases the fluid develops in association with some obvious disease of the testis or epididymis, such as syphilis, tubercle, or other form of chronic inflammation, but in the great majority it occurs apart from any such condition. It is probably of the nature of a passive effusion resulting from some abnormality in the vascular or lymphatic arrangements of the parts. Most French authors incline to the belief that it is invariably of inflammatory origin, but the evidence for this view is not convincing. In some cases, calcareous plates are found scattered over the walls of the sac, or the whole of the tunica vaginalis may be calcified and rigid. In other cases, numerous pedunculated fibrous bodies project from the tunica vaginalis into the cavity of the hydrocele. It is doubtful whether these changes are the cause or the result of the hydrocele.