58 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Microcephalus.—On the erroneous supposition that this condition is due to premature closure of the cranial sutures and fontanelles, the removal of long strips, or of triangular or quadrilateral areas of bone from each side of the skull was suggested and practised by Lannelongue. Portions of the dura mater have also been removed. The operation has been abandoned, as the essential defect has been shown to be in the brain itself and not in the skull. Cerebral Tumours. As not more than ten per cent, of tumours of the brain- using the term tumour in its widest sense—are amenable to surgical treatment, it is only necessary here to refer to those aspects of this subject which have a distinctively surgical bearing. Various forms of tumour occur in the brain, the most common varieties being tuberculous and syphilitic growths, gliomata and sarcomata. Less frequently fibromata, osteomata, and parasitic, haemorrhagic, and other cysts are met with. The tumour may originate in the brain tissue primarily, or may spread thence from the dura mater or the skull. Clinical Features.—The growth of a tumour in the brain inevitably results sooner or later in an increase in the intra- cranial tension, and to this the symptoms are chiefly due. The earliest and most prominent of the general symptoms are severe, paroxysmal headache, optic neuritis, and vomiting which is without relation to the taking of food and is usually un- attended by nausea. These symptoms are seldom absent, and are common to all forms of tumour, wherever situated. Vertigo, general convulsions, and signs of mental deterioration are also present in a considerable proportion of cases. In addition, certain localising symptoms may be present. When the tumour is situated in the cortex of the Rolandic area, attacks of Jacksonian epilepsy, preceded by an aura which is usually referable to the centre primarily implicated, are common. The group of muscles first involved, and the oi’der in which other groups become affected, are important localising factors. As the tumour increases in size, these irritative phenomena are replaced by paralyses, which are of even greater diagnostic value. The tactile and muscular sensations are also disturbed, and motor and sensory aphasia may be present. In some cases localised tenderness on percussing the skull may indicate the site of the tumour.