THE (ESOPHAGUS. 240 purative thyroiditis ; or perforation or erosion of the large vessels of the neck, giving rise to fatal haemorrhage. Treatment.—When the object is impacted in the 'pharynx and is causing suffocation, the mouth must be forced open by an extemporised gag, the finger passed into the back of the throat, and the body hooked out. If this be impossible, and if suitable forceps be not at hand, it may be necessary at once to perform laryngotomy to enable the patient to breathe. The body should then be removed by means of pharyngeal forceps. When the foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus, the symptoms are less urgent, and there is time to investigate the condition and to make suitable arrangements for dealing with it. In this connection it may be mentioned that drunkards frequently suffer from a form of spasm of the oesophagus which simulates clinically the impaction of a foreign body, and this fact should be borne in mind, as it may prevent needless search being made for bodies which have never been swallowed. The measures adopted vary with the nature of the body, its site, and the way in which it is impacted, and on these points valuable information may be obtained by the use of the X rays. A bolus of food, for example, or a small smooth object which is likely to pass safely along the alimentary canal, if it cannot be extracted with forceps, may be pushed on into the stomach by the aid of a bulbous-headed or sponge probang. This must be done very gently, especially if the body has been impacted for any length of time, as the inflammatory softening of the oesophageal wall may predispose to rupture. Small, sharp or irregular objects, such as fish bones, tacks or pins, may be dislodged by the “ umbrella probang ”—an instru- ment which, after being passed beyond the foreign body, is expanded into the form of a circular brush which carries the foreign body out among its bristles. Coins usually lodge edgewise in the oesophagus, and are best removed by means of a special instrument known as a “ coin-catcher,” which is passed beyond the coin, and on being withdrawn catches it in a specially constructed flange. In emergencies a loop of stout silver wire bent so as to form a hook makes an excellent substitute for a coin-catcher. The removal of solid objects is greatly facilitated by carrying out the manipulations in the dark room with the aid of the X-rays and the fluorescent screen. Irregular bodies with projecting edges or hooks, such as tooth-plates, tend to catch in the mucous membrane, and attempts to withdraw them by forceps or other instruments are liable to