462 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. by definite symptoms. If such are present, and are not relieved by a supporting belt, the segmented portion may be fixed to the parietes by suture, or it may be removed. Hepatoptosis—Prolapse of the Liver.—These terms are applied to a condition in which the attachments of the organ become relaxed, so that in the erect posture it descends to a lower level in the abdomen. Its shape is usually altered, and it is frequently rotated on one or more of its axes. If freely movable and capable of being replaced in its normal situation, it is described as a wandering liver; if fixed by adhesions in its new situation, it is said to be dislocated. Prolapse of the liver is often associated with the descent of other abdominal organs, especially the right kidney, the stomach, and the bowels,-—a condition to which the terms splanchnoptosis or Glenard’s disease has been applied. Clinical Features.—A tumour having the physical characters of the liver is found in the middle or lower part of the abdomen, and the normal liver dulness is replaced by resonance. There may be no subjective symptoms, and the condition is only discovered accidentally ; or there may be complaint of pafn and a feeling of weight in the right hypochondrium, aggravated by exertion, and relieved by lying down. In some cases the symptoms simulate those due to gall-stones. Neurotic or hysterical manifestations may be the most prominent features. Treatment is conducted on lines similar to those employed in floating kidney. The abdominal walls may be supported, and the liver kept in place by a suitable belt or bandage. Symptoms of neurasthenia and nervous debility should be treated. When all other measures fail, the question of fixing the liver permanently in its normal position—hepatojiexy—must be considered. The steps of this procedure consist in freeing the organ from adhesions which hold it in its abnormal position, replacing it, and anchoring it to the abdominal parietes by means of sutures. For at least a month after the operation the patient should remain recumbent, with the foot of the bed highly elevated, and an abdominal belt should be worn when she resumes the upright posture. Surgical Treatment of Ascites due to Cirrhosis of the Liver.—In uncomplicated cases of ascites resulting from hepatic cirrhosis, where repeated tapping of the abdomen has failed to afford relief, the question of bringing about artificially a collateral circulation between the portal and systemic veins may be considered. This procedure, suggested by Talma of Utrecht, was first carried out successfully by Rutherford Morison.