THE CHEST. 266 displacement varies considerably; in the majority of cases the upper fragment passes backwards and is overlapped by the lower; less frequently the opposite occurs (Fig. 57); and in some cases there is no displacement. Clinical Features.—When the fragments are displaced and overlap one another, there is a marked prominence over the sternum, with extravasation of blood around it, and the pro- jecting edge of the anterior fragment—usually the lower one— can be palpated through the skin. When no displacement exists, there may only be a slight staining of the skin from extravasated blood. As movement causes pain, the head and neck are inclined forward and held rigid, and as there is also pain on taking full breaths, the respiration is shallow and rapid. When there is marked displacement, or when exten- sive effusion of blood has taken place into the anterior mediastinum, the respiration may be seriously impeded. By the aid of the stethoscope crepitus may be recognised when the patient takes a deep breath. This fracture is usually complicated by injury to the internal organs. In all cases in which it has been pro- duced by forcible bending of the trunk, the possibility of a coexisting fracture of the spine should be borne in mind. The treatment consists in placing the patient at rest in bed with a firm pillow behind the back. When over- lapping exists, an attempt should be made to reduce the deformity by bending the patient backward over a rounded object, such as a large firm cushion. If the dis- placed fragments continue to interfere with respiration after time has been allowed for any rent in the pleura to heal, the fracture may be exposed by incision, the displacement reduced, and the fragments wired in position. Union in the deformed position, however, is not attended with any serious inconvenience. The ansiform cartilage may be separated from the body of Fig. 57.—-Oblique Fracture of the Body of the Sternum, with backward and upward Dis- placement of the Lower Frag- ment. Result of forward flexion of the trunk. There was also a compression fracture of the lumbar vertebra;.