OBSTRUCTED HERNIA. 359 hernia, with the exception that the whole or some portion of the hernial protrusion cannot be returned within the abdomen. The impulse on coughing is present although it may not be distinct. There is often complaint of a sense of weight, of dragging, or of colicky pains, and of digestive disturbances. Irreducibility is a constant source of danger to life, as by keeping open the hernial aperture it tends to favour the descent of further portions of bowel or omentum, and thus paves the way for the occurrence of strangulation. Treatment.—In a small proportion of cases it is possible to render the hernia reducible by confining the patient to bed with the foot of the bed raised, by restricting the diet and regulating the bowels, and by applying steady pressure with a pad of wool and an elastic bandage. If this succeed, the hernia may then be controlled by means of a truss. If it fail, recourse must be had to operation. In those who are not fit subjects for operation, the symptoms may be relieved, and the danger of strangulation lessened, by wearing some form of apparatus, such as an excavated pad or bag, which will support the protrusion. Inflamed Hernia.—This condition depends upon a localised peritonitis affecting the hernial sac or its contents, and is of im- portance chiefly because it leads to the formation of adhesions. It usually results from traumatic influences, such as the pressure of an ill-fitting truss or unskilful attempts to reduce the hernia. There is localised pain and tenderness which readily yield to rest and hot fomentations. The bacterial inflammation which attends strangulation of a hernia will be considered with that condition. Obstructed or Incarcerated Hernia.—This condition is chiefly met with in the irreducible umbilical hernia of fat women, who have allowed the bowels to become constipated. There is an impediment to the passage of the feces along the loop of bowel involved in the protrusion. The hernia becomes swollen, tender, and firm or doughy in consistence, and the patient complains of colicky pains, constipation and vomiting. The condition is often looked upon as a bilious attack, and therefore as of little im- portance, whereas it is really a grave condition, and may merge insensibly into strangulation. The treatment consists in con- fining the patient to bed, the foot of which is raised, and emptying the colon by means of copious enemata, succeeded by gentle kneading and taxis. If the symptoms are not relieved, recourse must be had to operation. Strangulated Hernia.—A hernia is said to be strangulated when the circulation of the blood through the contents of the