167 CANCER. leucoplakia, or, less frequently, as a hard nodule beneath the mucous membrane. In all cases ulceration begins early, and the base of the ulcer and the surrounding parts become in- durated. The lymphatic glands are, as a rule, very early infected. Clinical Features.-— The clinical appearances vary widely. Sometimes the surface presents a warty growth, sometimes it is excavated, forming a deep ulcer with raised nodular edges. In other cases the ulcer is smooth, and its edges even and rounded. Extreme hardness of the edges and of the base of the ulcer is always a characteristic feature. The tongue becomes unduly fixed and cannot be protruded. This is most marked when the disease spreads towards the floor of the mouth. The patient complains of a constant gnawing pain in the tongue, and of severe pain shooting along the branches of the fifth nerve, and especially towards the ear. In the advanced stages there is profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. Owing to the immobility of the tongue there is interference with speech and mastication. When the disease is situated on the edge of the tongue, it tends to spread to the floor of the mouth and to invade the lower jaw. If situated far back on the dorsum, it spreads towards the epiglottis, the pillars of the fauces, and the tonsil. The neighbouring lymphatic glands—particularly those under the jaw and along the line of the carotid vessels—soon become enlarged and hard. The submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands are also liable to be affected. The enlarged cervical glands are liable to undergo softening, or to suppurate and burst on the skin surface, forming fungating ulcers. Metastasis to the liver, lungs, and other viscera is exceptional. The patient usually dies in from twelve to eighteen months from repeated small haemorrhages, septic absorption, or septic pneu- monia. Differential Diagnosis.—Cancer of the tongue has to be diagnosed from syphilitic and tuberculous affections, papillomata, and simple ulcers and fissures. It is to be borne in mind that any of these conditions may take on malignant characters and develop into epithelioma. When there is any doubt as to the nature of the growth, it should be treated as if it were cancerous. The microscopic examination of a portion of the growth removed under cocain anaesthesia is often useful. An unbroken gumma is liable to be confused only with the uncommon form of epithelioma which begins as a nodule under the mucous membrane. Gummata, however, are often