313 WOUNDS OF ABDOMINAL WALL. While it is not justifiable to operate indiscriminately in all cases of abdominal injury, or on patients with extensive injuries who are obviously dying, when the diagnosis is doubtful it is on the whole safer to perform an exploratory laparotomy than to wait until signs of peritonitis ensue. Except in the presence of severe shock an exploratory operation cannot be said to add to the danger of the patient, while the onset of peritonitis may place him beyond relief by surgical measures. Treatment.—The operative treatment takes the form of a laparotomy, and the sooner this is carried out the better. It is not permissible to wait until the shock passes off, because in many cases this is kept up by bleeding or by the escape of visceral contents into the peritoneal cavity, and it is only after opening the belly that these can be arrested or eliminated. The chief indications to be fulfilled are, the closure of the rupture in the viscus, the arrest of haemorrhage, and the cleans- ing of the peritoneal cavity. The abdomen is opened, usually, by an incision over the seat of injury. If extravasated blood is found, the haemorrhage must be traced to its source and arrested. If gas and other material have escaped from the alimentary canal, the perforation must be searched for and closed. If neither blood nor alimentary con- tents are discovered, a more detailed search is necessary, especially a methodical examination of the intestine. All escaped blood or alimentary contents must be removed, and the drainage of any inflammatory exudate provided for. The further details of the operation vary with the different organs, and will be considered later. Wounds of the Abdominal Wall.—Stab wounds, produced by a knife, the spike of a railing or other pointed body, partake of the characters of punctured wounds, and the im- portant point to determine is whether or not the wound has penetrated the peritoneal cavity, and if so, if it is complicated by visceral injury. There may or may not be symptoms of visceral injury, for example, rigidity of the belly wall, persistent pain, presence of blood in the vomit or in the stools. If the position and direction of the wound, its size, and the character of the instrument with which it was inflicted, give reason to suspect that the peritoneal cavity has been entered, the wound must be disinfected and enlarged, as the conditions found may justify. If the peritoneal cavity has been penetrated, the belly must be opened up sufficiently to admit of its interior being examined. If there is evidence of haemorrhage or of escape of visceral contents, the lesion must be sought for and dealt with. The