478 CHAPTER XXIX. THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. Pancreas. — Surgical anatomy-—Injuries: Contusion; Rupture; Traumatic cysts—Pancreatitis : Varieties: Fat necrosis; Hcemorrhaye —Cysts : Varieties ; Situations—Malignant tumours—Pancreatic litliiasis. Spleen—Surgical anatomy—Injuries: rupture, stabs, and yunshot wounds—Abscess — Hydatids—Primary Sarcoma — Enlargements of the Spleen—Wandering and Dislocated Spleen. The Pancreas. Surgical Anatomy.—The pancreas is deeply placed at the back of the abdomen, the greater part of the gland lying in the epigastrium behind the stomach, while the tail and adjacent part of the body extend into the left hypochondrium. It is placed behind the peritoneum, the lesser sac of which lies directly in front of the gland. The head is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum, the neck crosses the middle line opposite the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrae, and the tail touches the spleen. The termination of the main duct of the pancreas curves down to meet the common bile-duct, and the two pierce the wall of the duodenum obliquely and open by a common orifice (Fig. 106). Functions.—Besides secreting the pancreatic juice, which is poured into the intestine and plays an important part in digestion, the pancreas is believed to furnish to the blood a secretion necessary for the trans- formation of carbohydrates. If this second secretion be absent as a result of destructive disease of the organ, one form of diabetes ensues. The presence of sugar in the urine, therefore, may afford confirmation of the existence of disease of the pancreas. The presence of fat in the stools is also an occasional accompaniment of pancreatic disease. Injuries.—The pancreas may be bruised or ruptured against the vertebral column by violence applied to the abdominal wall, as for example when the body is crushed between buffers. It is impossible to diagnose such lesions at the time of their occurrence. In some cases death takes place from haemorrhage, in others from fat necrosis. In less severe forms the lesser sac of the peritoneum becomes filled with blood-stained greenish fluid, constituting the so-called traumatic variety of pancreatic cyst.