418 THE INTESTINES. brownish or yellowish and offensive. Finally, the vomited matter becomes stercoraceous, which means that it has a faecal odour as a result of bacterial decomposition. Stercoraceous vomiting is most often met with in obstruction of the small intestine, and is uncommon in obstruction of the colon. The pain in acute obstruction depends on several factors. It may be due in part to traction on the sensitive parietal peritoneum. It is due chiefly to irregular and cramp-like peristaltic movements excited in the intestine above the seat of obstruction. The recurrent exacerbations of pain or colic are due to the passage along the intestine of periodic peristaltic waves that “ hurl themselves, as it were, against the obstruction.” This variety of pain is aggravated by any interference with the patient, and is markedly relieved by opium. In the later stages pain may be due to the great distension of the gut or to the onset of peritonitis. Neither faecal matter nor flatus is passed by the rectum. The abdomen becomes more or less distended, and towards the end of the illness is apt to become tender. The abdominal muscles are fixed, and the respiration is thoracic and superficial. In very acute strangulation distension may be absent, especially if the obstruction be high up in the jejunum. The temperature is subnormal, and the amount of urine is diminished. If the obstruction is unrelieved, the symptoms persist; the tongue becomes dry and brown, and there is intense thirst, the face is drawn and anxious, and the eyes sunken. The patient rapidly becomes exhausted, and dies with symptoms of septic intoxica- tion like those which mark the termination of acute peritonitis. He usually remains conscious to the last, and often fails to realise the gravity of his condition. Vomiting and thirst remain the most prominent and distressing symptoms. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—The onset of the malady is gradual, and its progress irregular or intermittent. Attacks of abdominal pain often follow the ingestion of food, and are frequently ascribed to indigestion. At first they attract little notice, but in time become more frequent and more severe. They are attended with occasional vomiting, and the patient complains of more or less constant uneasiness within the abdomen. There is a history of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move; opening medicines are efficacious in the early stages, later they act with less and less effect, and finally only cause griping pains and sickness. There is frequently a history of occasional diarrhoea, but this is a result of catarrh in the bowel caused by retained faecal matter above the obstruction,