HARE-LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. 119 between the outer edges of the clefts. The outer margins of the clefts are pared by a crescentic incision, and the margins of the prolabium in a rectangular or Y-shaped fashion according to circumstances. When the premaxillary bone projects forward, it should be replaced in position. Its replacement may be facilitated by excising a V-shaped segment from the bony septum of the nose. The prolabium is pared and utilised in closing the cleft in the lip, or in forming a columna for the nose. It should never be brought down to the free margin of the lip, as this usually results in depressing the tip of the nose. In suturing the lip silver wire or silkworm gut should be employed for the deep stitches, and horse-hair for the superficial ones. A light dressing of sterilised gauze is applied, and fixed in position by flexile collodion. The deep stitches are removed on the fourth or fifth day, and the superficiai ones on the eighth or tenth day. A dumb-bell shaped piece of adhesive plaster may be worn for some weeks after the removal of the stitches to prevent stretching of the cicatrix. Operation for Cleft Palate.—The term uranoplasty is applied to the operation for complete cleft palate, while the closure of a cleft in the soft palate alone is known as staphylorraphy. The operation of Langenbeck is that usually employed. The patient is placed on the table with the chest raised, and the head slightly dependent, in order that blood and mucus may gravitate readily towards the back of the pharynx. To enable the soft parts covering the hard palate to be brought together in the middle line it is necessary to separate them from the bone in the form of a muco-periosteal flap. This is done by carrying an incision down to the bone from the level of the last molar tooth to the level of the lateral incisor tooth, about a quarter of an inch internal to the alveolar edge. This incision passes internal to the posterior palatine artery and stops short of the anterior palatine. In this way bleeding is avoided, and the vascular supply of the flap is preserved. The flap is then separated from the bone by means of an elevator sufficiently freely to allow of the edges of the cleft being approximated without tension. It is often necessary to carry the lateral incision backwards into the anterior pillar of the fauces, to divide the palatal aponeurosis and the levator palati in the region of the hamular process. To pare the edges the uvula is held with catch forceps, the edge made taut, and a narrow shaving removed by means of a bistoury. The connections with the septum of the nose are divided with a pair of curved scissors.