197 CHAPTER XV. THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. Fractures of nasal bones—Deformities of nose: Saddle nose; Partial and complete destruction of nose; Restoration of nose ; Rhinophyma— Intra - nasal affections — Examination of the nasal cavities : Anterior rhinoscopy; Posterior rhinoscopy; Digital examination. Cardinal Symptoms of Nasal Affections : Nasal obstruction : Erectile swelling of inferior turbinals ; Nasal polypi; Malignant tumours; Deviations, spines, and ridges of septum ; Hcematoma of Septum—Nasal discharge: Foreign bodies; Rhinoliths; Ozcena; Epistaxis; Suppuration in accessory sinuses—Anomalies of smell and taste : Anosmia ; Parosmia—Reflex symptoms of nasal origin— Post-nasal obstruction : Adenoids—Tumours of naso-pharynx. Fractures of the Nasal Bones.—These injuries are always the result of direct violence, such as a blow or a fall against a projecting object. They are more common in adults than in children, and in spite of the fact that the fracture is usually compound, through tearing of the mucous membrane, septic complications are rare. The fracture usually runs transversely across both nasal bones near their lower edge, but sometimes it is comminuted and involves also the nasal processes of the superior maxillae. In nearly all cases the cartilage of the septum is bent or displaced so that it bulges into one or other nostril, and not infrequently a haunatoma forms in the septum. Some- times the vertical plate of the ethmoid is implicated, and the fracture in this way comes to involve the base of the skull. The nasal ducts may be injured and the flow of the tears obstructed. This may eventually result in the formation of a lachrymal abscess and fistula. The clinical features are pain, bleeding from the nose, dis- coloration, and swelling. Crepitus can usually be elicited on pressing over the nasal bones. The deformity sometimes consists in a lateral deviation of the nose, but more frequently in flattening of the bridge—traumatic saddle nose. Within a few