THE BREAST. 292 women past middle life, and is liable to be mistaken for a cyst or a new growth. Such an abscess may be due to infection of a haematoma resulting from injury, to suppuration in a retention cyst, or to recrudescence of a former acute abscess—residual abscess. The organisms may be introduced either by way of the lymphatics or through the blood-stream. Clinically, it forms a firm elastic swelling in the substance of the breast, and, the wall of the abscess being thick and fibrous, fluctuation may not be detectable. There is slight tenderness on pressure, and sometimes a throbbing pain. The skin over the abscess may be oedematous, the nipple is often retracted, and a purulent fluid may sometimes be expressed from it. The axillary glands are usually enlarged and tender. The treatment consists in cutting down upon the abscess, and if possible dissecting it out entire. If this be impossible, it is opened, the walls scraped, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. Chronic Mastitis.—The term chronic interstitial mastitis is applied to an affection of the breast which is of the nature of a fibrosis, and which primarily implicates the stroma of the gland. The inter-lobular and inter-acinous connective tissue becomes densely sclerosed, and the fatty tissue and parenchyma are largely replaced by fibrous tissue. There is little or no proliferation of the epithelial elements, and there is no tendency to the formation of cysts. This form of the disease is comparatively rare, and it runs a very chronic course. It is met with in married, as well as in single women, usually about the time of the menopause. As a rule only one breast is affected, and there is no history of a definite injury or of a previous inflammation. For a time—it may be several months, or even two or three years—the whole breast gradually increases in size and becomes firmer than normal, without forming adhesions to the pectoral fascia or to the overlying skin. Eventually it ceases to grow, and the gland undergoes cicatricial atrophy, causing retraction of the nipple and puckering of the skin by dragging on the ducts and suspensory ligaments of Cooper. The condition is usually painless, and the axillary glands are not enlarged. It is very liable to be mistaken for a diffuse carcinoma, and in many cases the differential diagnosis is all but impossible without the evidence afforded by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—In the early stages the application of a bella- donna plaster or of the liniment of the iodide of potassium