FRACTURES OF THE JAWS. 153 owing to the vascularity of the parts necrosis is rare, even when suppuration ensues. When the alveolar portion is comminuted, the fragments may be kept in position by fixing the lower jaw against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage, or by adjusting a moulded lead or gutta-percha splint to the alveolus and palate. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—The most common situation for fracture of the lower jaw is through the body of the bone in the vicinity of the canine tooth. The depth of the socket of this tooth, and the comparative narrowness of the jaw at this level, render it the weakest part of the arch. The fracture is usually due to direct violence, such as a blow in fighting, the kick of a horse, or a fall from a height. It is sometimes bilateral, the bone giving way at the canine fossa on one side and just in front of the masseter on the other; or both fractures may be at the canine fossae. The fracture is usually oblique from above downwards and outwards, and is nearly always compound into the mouth. When only one side is broken, the smaller fragment is usually displaced outwards and forwards by the masseter and temporal muscles, so that it overlaps the larger fragment. In bilateral fractures the central loose segment is drawn downwards and backwards towards the hyoid bone by the muscles attached to the chin, while both lateral fragments are tilted outwards and forwards by the masseters and temporals. The amount of dis- placement is best recognised by observing the degree of irregu- larity in the line of the teeth. Abnormal mobility and crepitus are readily elicited, and there is severe pain, particularly when the inferior dental nerve is stretched or crushed. The patient’s attitude is characteristic; he supports the broken jaw with his hands, and keeps it as steady as possible when he attempts to speak or swallow. Saliva dribbles from the open mouth and the speech is indistinct. In adults the bone may be broken at the symphysis as a result of lateral compression of the jaw—for example, by pressing together the angles. The general characters of the fracture are the same as those of fracture of the body, but the displacement is inconsiderable. Fractures at the angle and through the ascending ramus are less common, and are not attended with deformity, as the frag- ments are retained in position by the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. Fracture of the coronoid process is extremely rare. The condyles are frequently fractured just below the insertion