THE URINARY BLADDER. 596 piece of rubber tubing is fixed. The upper tube leads to a douche can or reservoir, which is suspended at the head of the bed above the level of the patient’s body ; the lower tube passing over the side of the bed, ends in a glass tube with several bends like a double S, which hangs over a pail on the floor. A screw clip on the upper tube regulates the rate of outflow from the reservoir; a drop every few seconds is sufficient. By introducing a Y-shaped glass tube (Fig. 141 g) into the rubber tube between the bladder (/) and the T-shaped tube (c) the urine can be collected in a separate receptacle (h). The principle is that the water falling by its own weight through the dependent part of the lower tube, causes negative pressure or suction above it, which, owing to the regulating clip, can only be partially satisfied by entrance of water from the reservoir. The rest of the sucking force is necessarily exercised upon the tube from the bladder. It is essential that there shall always be some portion of the tube between the T and the pail completely filled, other- wise air will pass and destroy the suction; hence the value of the S-tube, at least one bend of which is always filled with fluid. It is also essential that the calibre of the narrowest part of the tube from the reservoir (i.e. at the clip) shall be less than that of the narrowest part of the tube between the T and the pail; otherwise the reservoir becomes an ordinary head of water, the pressure in the system of tubes becomes positive, and water is forced into the bladder. The apparatus works equally well in draining by the urethra, through the perineum or suprapubically. The difference is that in the two former cases there is no air in the system of tubes; in the last case there is necessarily air in the bladder which is Fro. 141.—Cathcart’s Apparatus for Drainage of the Bladder. a, Reservoir. b, Screw clip. c, T-shaped glass tube. d, S-sliaped glass tube. e, Receptacle for lotion. /, Tube attached to catheter in bladder. V/, Y-shaped tube. h, Receptacle for urine.