353 RECURRENT APPENDICITIS. The pain is referred all over the abdomen, and after lasting for some hours disappears, leaving a general tenderness and a specially tender point in the right iliac fossa corresponding to the position of the root of the appendix. The tenderness lasts for two or three days, and gradually passes off. On the other hand, each recurrence may partake of the character of an ordinary acute appendicitis, and may at any time culminate in suppuration. A cure may ultimately occur by a gradual pro- cess of oblitei’ation. The recurrent attacks are usually attributed by the patient to such causes as strain, chill, indiscretions in diet, or inattention to the bowels, factors which would probably be inoperative unless the appendix were already the seat of pathological changes. The diagnosis is easy when the patient’s sufferings date from a primary acute attack, and when there are recognisable physical signs of a diseased appendix in the form of induration and tenderness in the right iliac fossa. In a small proportion of cases it is possible to feel the enlarged or thickened appendix. In the absence, however, of these factors, and especially in cases of recurrent colic without physical signs, confusion may arise between painful attacks of appendicular origin and those pro- ceeding from the intestine, kidney, ureter, ovary or Fallopian tube. Cases are also met with in which obscure gastro- intestinal attacks with pain, indigestion and vomiting—some- times diagnosed as nervous dyspepsia—are really of appendicular origin, and disappear after removal of the appendix. Treatment.—While not prepared to advise removal of the appendix after a first attack in all cases, we should recommend it (1) if swelling or tenderness is still present one month after the onset of the attack; (2) if the patient wishes to insure his life; (3) if he proposes to enter one of the public services; (4) if he intends to reside where he will be out of reach of surgical assistance; and (5) in children, because, if recurrence takes place, it is often of a grave type. After a second attack, the removal of the appendix is recom- mended unless in the presence of such contra-indications as Bright’s disease or diabetes. The operation, although sometimes difficult on account of adhesions, is attended with a very small mortality, averaging about 1 per cent. The incision is made in the line of the fibres of the external oblique, with its centre at hi‘Burney’s point; the external oblique and its aponeurosis are divided in the same line and the edges drawn aside; the internal oblique and transversalis are divided in the line of their fibres, and their VOL. II—23