THE URETHRA. G38 of the urethra, either in the region of the bulb, or at the junction of the prostatic and membranous portions. The local lesions of the mucous membrane may be seen with the endoscope or urethroscope, or their presence may be inferred if, on passing an olivary bougie, the patient complains of pain as the instrument comes into contact with or stretches the inflamed area of the tube. The discharge may be made to appear at the meatus by compressing the urethra from behind forwards. The condition is met with chiefly in neurotic patients, and its persistence appears to depend, in part at least, on the mental perturbation with which it is frequently associated. Before concluding that the persistence of a urethral discharge is of the nature of gleet, the practitioner should make sure that the discharge does not result from chronic vesiculitis or from the urethritis which accompanies stricture. Treatment is both general and local. The former consists in improving the bodily and mental health by tonics and open-air exercise. When the mental element predominates a sea voyage is often the best prescription. When definite lesions are found on urethroscopic examination they may be treated. Raw granular patches are swabbed with nitrate of silver in solutions of increasing strength at weekly intervals. If there is a tendency to cicatricial contraction of the tube and diminution of the stream of urine, full-sized bougies should be passed at intervals. The patient should be warned that the above pro- cedures frequently set up an evanescent acute urethritis with marked increase in the amount of discharge. Gonorrhoea in the female is met with in children as well as in adults, and assumes the characters of a vulvo-vaginitis with an abundant purulent discharge which irritates the adjacent parts. There is itching and burning pain, and scalding on micturition. The urethra is only infected in a small proportion of cases. The infection may iodge for long periods in the glands of Bartholin, and the gland may became the seat of abscess. The infection may spread from the vagina to the uterus, and thence through the Fallopian tube to the peritoneum and ovary, and in addition to giving rise to such important complications as pyosalpinx and peritonitis, is liable to result in chronic affections of the tubes and ovaries attended with sterility and prolonged ill health. Infection is liable also to lodge for an indefinite period in the recesses of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri, and may thus be the means of imparting gonorrhoea to the male long after all traces of the disease have disappeared from the vulva and vagina.