THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 176 fail. It is necessary to establish an opening into the mouth, either by opening up the original duct or by making an internal fistula in place of the external one. If possible, a fine probe or bougie should be passed from the normal opening in the mouth along the whole length of the duct, and fixed in position sufficiently long to allow the external opening to close. While the probe is in position, the occlusion of the external opening by collodion helps to direct the saliva along the duct. When the oral end of the duct is impermeable, a silk thread should be passed through the fistula into the mouth so as to include and strangulate a portion of tissue, the sloughing of which establishes a permanent channel into the mouth along its track. Salivary Calculi.—Salivary calculi are most commonly met with in the submaxillary gland. They consist of phosphate and carbonate of lime with a small proportion of organic matter, and result from the chemical action of bacteria on the saliva. In rare cases a foreign body, such as a piece of straw, a fruit-seed or a fish-bone, forms the nucleus of the concretion. They vary in size from a pea to a walnut. Those which form in the gland itself are usually irregular, while those met with in the duct are rounded or spindle-shaped. They are hard, of a whitish or grey colour, and rough on the surface. A calculus in the duct gives rise to a sharp lancinating pain, which is aggravated when the patient takes food. The duct is seldom completely obstructed, but the flow of saliva is usually so much impeded that the gland becomes greatly swollen during meals. The swelling gradually subsides between times, or can be made to disappear by external pressure. The calculus can usually be felt through the mucous membrane as a hard lump in the floor of the mouth, or by means of a probe passed along the duct. When the obstruction is complete, a retention cyst forms in which suppuration is liable to occur. In some cases the wall of the duct and the surrounding tissues become thickened and indurated, forming a swelling which is liable to be mistaken for a malignant growth. The treatment consists in making an incision through the mucous membrane over the calculus and extracting it with forceps or a scoop. Inflammatory Affections—Parotitis.—Inflammation of the parotid gland may be non-suppurative or suppurative. Of the nonsuppurative varieties the most common is the epidemic form known as mumps. This is an acute infective condition which usually attacks young children, and implicates both glands, either simultaneously or consecutively. It runs a