274 THE CHEST. and other diseases, a passive effusion of serous fluid takes place into the pleural cavity. It is usually bilateral, and is not attended with fever or pain. In malignant disease, in phthisis, and in certain bacterial diseases of the lungs, the fluid may be deeply stained with blood. Sometimes air escapes with the fluid, particularly in phthisical patients, and the condition is known as hydro-jmeumothorax. When the lungs or heart become em- barrassed by the pressure of the fluid, aspiration is called for. Empyema.—The term empyema is applied to any collection of pus in the pleural cavity. For clinical purposes it is con- venient to distinguish between the pyogenic and the tuberculous forms of the disease. In either form the pus may be localised by pleuritic adhesions (encysted empyema), or may be diffused throughout the pleural cavity. Pyogenic Empyema.—In children, the condition is usually due to the serous effusion resulting from acute pleurisy or pneumonia becoming purulent, and the organism most frequently present is the pneumococcus. In adults the pus may originate in the same way, or may form in the course of such acute infective diseases as typhoid, scarlet fever or general pyaemia. Sometimes empyema results from infection of the effusion following an injury of the chest. The organisms vary with the primary disease, those most frequently found in pure culture being the streptococcus and the pneumococcus. Staphylococci, typhoid bacilli, and saprophytic organisms are less frequently found, and when present are usually associated with one another. In another class of cases empyema results from the bursting into the pleura of an abscess formed in an adjacent viscus or cavity. As examples may be cited the rupture of an abscess or gangrenous area of the lung, a hepatic or sirb- phrenic abscess, or an abscess of the chest wall. The organism present in these cases depends on the nature of the primary abscess, and the infection is usually a mixed one. The lung is usually collapsed, either partially or completely, and lies back in the vertebral groove, where it becomes bound down by pleuritic adhesions. Flaky lymph collects on the surface and, becoming organised, leads to great thickening of the pleura. Clinical Features.—The clinical features of empyema vary considerably according to the nature and source of the infection, the age of the patient, and the duration of the disease. Certain •symptoms, however, are common to all cases: these are im- mobility of the affected side of the chest, flattening and sometimes even bulging of the intercostal spaces, dulness on percussion, and