HERNIA. 372 abdominal wall, and even to enlarge the existing opening. In every case the truss should be applied and tested by the surgeon. It is put on while the patient is recumbent, and the pad should cover the internal ring and inguinal canal, and should exert pressure in an upward and backward direction. It must not rest on the pubic bone, as it is liable to chafe and may fail to control the hernia. The truss should be constantly worn when the patient is in the erect position, but may be discarded when he is recumbent, unless there is some condition, such as cough or frequent straining at micturition, which necessitates its being worn at night. A vulcanite or other waterproof truss may be worn in the bath. Whether a single or double truss should pad is not sufficient to control the hernia, it must be made fuller and more bulky, and of such a shape that the surface next the skin looks rather more upwards. The soft part of the pad may be prolonged downwards into a tail or understrap—the “rat- tailed truss.” This truss may be employed also in cases of direct hernia. In some cases the “forked tongue truss” may prove more efficient. Operative Treatment.—In many cases this is the more satis- factory method of treatment, for example, when the hernia cannot be efficiently controlled by a truss ; when it is irreducible ; when there has been a threatened or actual strangulation. In cases which are congenital, and in cases complicated by im- perfect descent of the testis, also, operation is indicated. Opera- tion should also be performed in young men who intend entering one of the public services, or who are going abroad where they be worn for a unilateral hernia is largely a matter of personal opinion. Some object to the wearing of a pad on the side on which there is no hernia because it is believed to weaken the abdominal wall. If the pad is large enough to distri- bute the pressure, and does not dimple the wall at any one Fig. 71.—Double Spiral Truss for Inguinal Hernia. '//, point, no such weakening results. A double truss sits more com- / fortably, and can often be worn without understraps. A single truss with an understrap is that most commonly employed in congenital hernia. When the