357 CLINICAL CONDITIONS OF HERNIA. any point where its normal constituents have been replaced by scar tissue, also favours the formation of a hernia. The struc- tural arrangements at the inguinal and femoral canals act in the same direction. Males are more liable to hernia than females because of the frequency of errors of development in relation to the processus vaginalis, and of the weakness of the abdominal wall at the site of passage of the spermatic cord, and because of the more laborious nature of their occupations. The frequency with which hernia is met with varies at different periods of life. Those forms due to congenital defects are common in infancy and childhood. During adolescence and early adult life the condition is comparatively rare, but as age advances it becomes more common. In old age the attachment of the mesentery to the posterior abdominal wall may descend to a lower level than normal, and thus increase the tendency to hernia; this “ prolapse of the mesentery ” (Lockwood) is often associated with an alteration in the configuration of the abdomen—a flattening or recession above, and a bulging below the umbilicus. Among the exciting causes most importance attaches to those conditions which increase the intra-abdominal pressure, such as the muscular effort required in laborious occupations, especially the lifting of heavy weights in the stooping posture. In infants excessive crying, in adults coughing and straining at defecation or micturition, act in a similar manner. Clinical Conditions of Hernia. A hernia may be reducible, irreducible, inflamed, obstructed, or strangulated. A reducible hernia is one in which the contents of the sac can be returned within the abdomen. As a rule the sac is fixed to the surrounding tissues and cannot be replaced. The reduc- tion may take place spontaneously when the patient lies down, or may be effected by manipulation on the part of the patient or surgeon, this manipulation being known as taxis. A reducible hernia forms a soft, rounded swelling, which on straining or coughing presents an expansile impulse known as the “impulse on coughing.” When the sac contains intestine the swelling is elastic, uniform, and resonant on percussion; during reduction of the hernia there is a characteristic gurgle, and the last portion is most easily reduced. When there is omentum in the sac the swelling is less uniform in consistence, is uneven, knotted or