THE STOMACH. 396 Fig. 82.—The Peritoneal Aspect of the Pyloro- duodenal Junction, showing a minute circular opening, the result of a perforating ulcer. (From Dr. Harvey Littlejohn’s collection.) Large irregular bodies and hair balls should be removed by gastrotomy. Ulcers of the Stomach and Duodenum. The wall of the stomach is frequently the seat of a form of ulceration which is probably due to a digestive action of the gastric juice on a por- tion of the mucous mem- brane which has been slightly eroded by cat- arrhal inflammation or by injury. Similar ulcers are met with in the duo- denum. These ulcers, which may be single or multiple, are usually rounded or oval, and measure from half an inch to four or five inches in diameter. In some cases, only the mucosa is destroyed, in others the muscular coat also is eroded, and the base of the ulcer is formed by the peritoneal covering. When the ulcer is situated on the posterior wall of the stomach—the most common site—adhesions are liable to form between the ulcerated portion of the stomach and the adjacent viscera—- the pancreas or spleen—with the result that the base of the ulcer is formed by these viscera—the so-called “ penetrating ulcer.” In this way perforation into the peritoneal cavity is prevented. Adhesions rarely form between the anterior wall of the stomach and the parietal peritoneum —a fact which helps to explain the comparative frequency with which ulcers on the anterior wall perforate into the peritoneal cavity. As a rule the ulcer has a punched-out appearance, its edges dipping straight down, and being some- what thickened and indurated. In some cases the edges shelve down, the mucosa being destroyed over a wider area than the muscularis (Fig. 83). The Fig. 83.—Chronic Gastric Ulcer, showing a perfora- tion which occupies about half the extent of the floor of the ulcer. The rest of the floor is formed by adherent pancreas. The stellate puckering of the surrounding gastric wall is well marked. (Anatomical Museum, Uni- versity of Edinburgh.) healing of a gastric ulcer is