ULCERS OF THE STOMACH. 397 frequently accompanied by marked cicatricial contraction which, according to the site of the ulcer, may lead to stenosis of the pylorus, to hour-glass constriction of the body of the stomach, or to puckering of its wall. Tkei’e is reason to believe that a chronic ulcer may become the starting-point of cancer. Gastric ulcer is most common in young anaemic and chlorotic women, and gives rise to severe epigastric pain and vomiting after taking food, and sometimes to kamiatemesis. Duodenal ulcers are usually met with in middle-aged males, who may suffer from dyspepsia, or may enjoy perfectly good health. When there is pain, it usually comes on some hours after food, and it is seldom accompanied by haematemesis. Melaena, however, is comparatively common. In the great majority of cases these conditions are amenable to medical and dietetic treatment, and it is only when such complications as profuse haemorrhage, perforation, perigastric abscess, or cicatricial stenosis ensue, or when the condition lasts unduly long and resists medical treat- ment, that surgical intervention becomes necessary. Operative Treatment of Uncomplicated Ulcer.—In cases where a course of medical treatment has failed to bring about the healing of the ulcer, and where the chronic ill-health of the patient interferes with the earning of a livelihood, surgical inter- vention is warranted, especially in view of the risk of perforation, of severe haemorrhage, or of the subsequent development of cancer. The most suitable operation is gastro-enterostomy, the com- munication between the stomach and intestine being made at the most dependent part of the stomach to facilitate the passage of the food into the bowel. In this way the hyperacidity of the gastric contents, the spasmodic contraction of the pylorus, and the motor insufficiency of the stomach muscle, which are im- portant factors in preventing healing of the ulcer, are corrected. Recurrence of the ulcer, although rare, is not unknown after this operation. Pyloroplasty is indicated in cases in which the pylorus is stenosed by spasm or hypertrophy of its walls, but in which it is free of adhesions and is not contracted by scars. The drainage of the stomach is less perfect than after gastro-enterostomy, and, unless the cases are very carefully selected, relapses are more frequent. Excision of the ulcer is only performed when there is reason to suspect the development of cancer, or when it lies in the area of the incision necessary for gastro-enterostomy or pyloroplasty. Complications of Gastric Ulcer—Haemorrhage.—Gastror- i-hayia.—Haemorrhage is one of the most common complications