312 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. gas into the peritoneal cavity, as in rupture of the stomach or intestine. Diminution or loss of the liver dulness may result from such escape of gas, but is not a reliable sign of this, as it may be produced by gaseous distension of the colon. As a result of the arrested peristalsis of the bowel the patient passes nothing per rectum, not even flatus. In the case of rupture of a solid organ attended with haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, the initial shock, instead of passing off, merges into the phenomena of the bloodless state : the pallor increases, the pulse becomes smaller and more frequent, the patient faints or becomes very restless, exhibiting the effects of “air-hunger,” and the accumulation of blood within the belly may be recognised by increasing dulness in the loins. In rupture of hollow organs the symptoms of the initial shock gradually merge into those of septic peritonitis. In an incomplete rupture of a hollow viscus, or when a perforation is so small that escape of contents is prevented, the initial shock is followed by an amelioration of the symptoms. There is here the possibility of natural cure, but as a rule, after an interval of comparative well-being, the features of a localised peritonitis appear, and this being limited by adhesions may terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess, or it may extend and cause general peritonitis. Diagnosis.—It is often difficult to be absolutely certain of the existence of a visceral lesion, and especially when an accurate history of the injury is not obtainable in the case of persons found injured and in cases of alleged assault. The persistence of severe shock is strongly suggestive of visceral injury, although in some cases of rupture of the stomach or intestine the patient suffers little from shock, and may even be able to walk some distance. The diagnosis of visceral injury is rendered more certain by the persistence of vomiting after the stomach has emptied itself of food, the continuance of severe pain and rigidity of the abdominal muscles, or subsequent dis- tension of the belly. Progressive bloodlessness with signs of accumulation of blood in the peritoneal cavity affords grounds for a definite diagnosis. Rupture of the urinary bladder is so liable to be overlooked, especially in intoxicated individuals, that it is advisable to pass a catheter, as a routine practice, in all cases of known or alleged injury to the abdomen. So long as the diagnosis is in doubt the progress of the symptoms must be carefully watched, the patient being kept under observation, and examined at frequent intervals.