334 THE PERITONEUM. coma—closely resembles the lipoma clinically, but is of more rapid growth and of firmer consistence; its removal should not be attempted. Omental tumours lie in the umbilical region, near the anterior abdominal wall, and are freely movable. The innocent forms may lend themselves to extirpation, but special care must be taken not to damage the blood-vessels supplying the transverse colon. Malignant Disease of the Peritoneum.—This may be a primary affection in the form of colloid cancer or endothelioma; ! more often it is secondary to cancer of the stomach, liver, intestine or ovary. The clinical features are those of an insidious ascites, not unlike that resulting from tuberculosis, with nodular tumours in different parts of the abdomen. If the belly is opened there escapes an abundant serous exudate, frequently turbid from the presence of degenerated cancer cells, and sometimes blood-stained from Hemorrhage. The peritoneum may be seen and felt to be studded with cancer nodules, which in the omentum are collected into larger masses. In the secondary forms it may be possible to recognise malignant disease \ in the organ from which the peritoneal metastases originated. Mesenteric Cysts.—These appear to originate in relation to the lymphatics of the mesentery, and may be described as serous, j chylous, or haemorrhagic according to the nature of their contents. They form very insidiously, and may attain a considerable size before attention is directed to them by the enlargement and prominence of the abdomen, by the sudden onset of colicky pains, or by symptoms of intestinal obstruction. They occupy the middle line of the abdomen at or below the umbilicus, are rounded, tense and elastic, and are freely movable from side to side. There is often a zone of resonance across the cyst corre- sponding to a coil of intestine, and there is usually an area of resonance between the cyst and the pubes. Although these points are characteristic, mesenteric cysts have frequently been mistaken for ovarian and pancreatic cysts and for other forms of movable abdominal tumour. Puncture for diagnostic purposes is not recommended. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen and investigat- ing die relations of the cyst. If the conditions are favourable it is best to shell out the cyst after incising the investing peri- toneum ; otherwise the cyst is stitched to the parietal wound and drained. Hydatid cysts of the peritoneum are usually secondary to hydatid disease in the liver or other viscus.