486 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. suppuration may be opened and drained either by the abdominal or the trans-pleural route. Hydatid cysts of the spleen are rarely diagnosed during life. The connection of the cyst with the spleen may be recognised by percussion and palpation. They are treated on the same lines as hydatid cysts in other organs. Primary sarcoma is the commonest form of new growth in the spleen, and is difficult to diagnose without an exploratory operation. The treatment consists in performing splenectomy. Enlargements of the Spleen.—The splenic enlargement which results from malaria may necessitate surgical interference if medical treatment has been found of no avail. The removal of the spleen, while usually followed by great improvement in the general health, does not guarantee the patient against fresh malarial infection. The operation of splenectomy for malarial spleen is attended with a considerable mortality, and should therefore be restricted to carefully selected cases. Simple hypertrophy of the spleen (splenomegaly) may simi- larly be subjected to operative interference when medical treatment has failed to bring about relief. Operative interference is contra-indicated in the splenic enlargement which accompanies leucocythoemia. In nearly all the cases in which removal of the organ has been attempted the patient has died of hamiorrhage. Actinomycosis and primary tuberculosis occasionally call for surgical interference. Wandering or Floating Spleen.—This term is applied to a condition in which the pedicle of the spleen is abnormally long, and the organ is unduly movable, so that it may leave its normal position, and pass to some other part of the abdomen. If it become fixed in its abnormal position by adhesions, it is spoken of as a dislocated spleen. Beyond the fact that it is almost exclusively met with in spare women who have borne children, the origin of the condition has as yet received no adequate explanation. In well-marked cases a floating spleen is capable of such wide excursions, that it may be found in any part of the abdomen or pelvis, hence it readily gives rise to errors in diagnosis. When it is displaced, it may drag or press on adjacent viscera, and give rise to symptoms referable to these. By pulling on the stomach, for example, it may kink the duo- denum, by becoming adherent to the bowel it may interfere Avith peristalsis and threaten obstruction, or by pressing upon the uterus it may displace that organ. The pedicle of a wander- ing spleen may become tAvisted, and give rise to symptoms