323 GENERAL PERITONITIS. and feeble, although in some cases the pulse does not alter till the disease is well advanced. If the peritonitis is part of a general septic infection, as in puerperal cases, the temperature may be elevated, but it is usually normal or subnormal, especially at the onset. The association of a subnormal temperature and rapid feeble pulse is characteristic of peritonitis. Vomiting is one of the cardinal symptoms, and is rarely absent except in some cases resulting from perforating ulcer of the stomach. It is continuous and persistent; the stag- nating decomposing contents of the upper coils of intestine regurgitate into the stomach, and are ejected from the mouth without effort and without preliminary retching. The vomited matter at first consists of sour-smelling, undigested food, later it is green from admixture with bile, and, finally, it is brownish from altered blood, and offensive as a result of decomposition. The patient only brings up a mouthful or two at a time, but the amount of fluid regurgitated from the stomach may be so great that the body is drained of its fluid, and the patient com- plains of a burning thirst. The urine is diminished in quantity, is concentrated, and often contains traces of albumin and indican. Abdominal pain is a prominent feature, and in cases of abrupt onset is severe enough to produce marked symptoms of shock. Pain and tenderness are usually most acute over the organ from which the peritonitis originated, for example in the right iliac fossa in appendicular lesions, and in the epigastrium in perforations of the stomach. The situation of the pain may thus afford evidence as to the seat of origin of the peritonitis. As the inflammation extends and becomes diffuse, the pain and tenderness become more . widely distributed. The abdominal walls not only cease to move with respiration, but become rigid and board-like from reflex contraction of the muscles. In the later stages the abdomen tends to become distended and prominent from the formation of gas within the bowels. The inflammation of the serous coat leads to paralysis of the walls of the gut, the fluid contents stagnate and undergo decomposition, and this is attended with the formation of gas. The distension of the bowels bulges the anterior wall, and pushes up the diaphragm and liver, the latter organ being rotated so that its normal area of clulness may diminish or disappear. As a result of the intestinal paralysis nothing is passed by the rectum, not even flatus. In certain forms of peritonitis, in those for example which attend puerperal infections, there may be diarrhoea. It is rarely possible by external examination to be certain of the presence of fluid exudation. An area of dulness in the