262 CHAPTER XX. THE CHEST. Surgical Anatomy—Injuries of the chest wall: Contusions; Non- penetrating wounds; Fracture of ribs and costal cartilages; Dis- location of ribs and cartilages; Fracture of sternum—Injuries of thoracic viscera : Hremothorax ; Pneumothorax ; Haemoptysis ; Emphysema — Injuries of the pleura — Contusion and laceration of lung — Penetrating wounds of lung — Hernia of the lung. Suiigical Diseases oe the Chest : Diseases of chest wall: Pyogenic; Tuberculous; Syphilitic; Tumours—Pleural effusions: Non-purulent; Purulent; Empyema ; Bilateral empyema ; Tuber- culous empyema; Old-standing empyema with infected sinuses— Pulmonary cavities : Pulmonary abscess ; Gangrene of lung ; Bron- chiectasis ; Phthisical cavities ; Hydatid cysts. The Heart : Injuries —Pericardial effusions. The Diaphragm : Injuries—Diseases. The Mediastina. Surgical Anatomy.—The upper edge of the sternum lies opposite the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebra, and distant from it about two and a half inches. The jimction of the manubrium with the gladiolus is marked by a prominent ridge which lies opposite the second costal cartilage. The lower end of the sternum is opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The obliquity of the ribs is such that the anterior end of a given rib lies opposite the posterior end of the rib three lower in the series, for example, the anterior end of the fourth rib is on the same level as the posterior end of the seventh. Posterior to the angles of the ribs the intercostal vessels and nerves cross the intercostal space obliquely, and are therefore liable to be injured in tapping or incising the chest. Anterior to the angles they lie in the groove on the under and inner aspect of the rib, and are safe from injury, if incisions aud exploratory punctures are made close to the upper margin of the rib. The internal mammary vessels lie a fmger’s-breadth external to the edge of the sternum. The left innominate vein and the main branches of the arch of the aorta are situated behind the manubrium, while the arch itself and the bifurcation of the trachea are behind the junction of t he manubrium with the body of the sternum. The apices of the lungs extend for a distance of about two fingers’- breadths above the middle third of the clavicle. A line drawn from the junction of the sternum with the ensiform cartilage to the last rib