134 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. and in some patients by the taking of certain drugs, such as iodides, belladonna, or mercury. There is slight pain on swallowing, and a peculiar tickling sensation passes along the Eustachian tube to the ear. The throat feels dry, and the patient has a constant desire to clear it. Morning nausea and even vomiting are not infrequent. It is only when complications ensue that the condition assumes a distinctively surgical aspect. Among these complica- tions may be mentioned extension of the inflammation to the mucous membrane of the larynx, causing oedema of the glottis with obstruction to respiration, or to the Eustachian tube, leading to some degree of deafness. The condition may spread along the Eustachian tube to the mucous membrane of the middle ear, and is often an important factor in the production of chronic suppuration of that cavity. It is an interesting fact that meta- stasis may take place to the genital organs, giving rise to orchitis or ovaritis. The treatment of the local condition in the throat consists in employing antiseptic and soothing gargles, inhalations of chloride of ammonium, or a spray of menthol or eucalyptol. Lozenges or pastilles containing chloride of ammonium, chlorate of potash, and cubebs may be employed. If the pain is severe, a spray of 5 per cent, solution of cocain may be used. In rheumatic cases saliein and salicylate of soda are indicated. A chronic form of pharyngitis is frequently met with in clergymen and others who require to strain their voices in public speaking. It is usually associated with some gastro-intestinal disturbance, and is aggravated by indiscre- tions in diet and in the use of alcohol and tobacco. In some cases the mucous membrane is congested, infiltrated, and swollen, the lymph follicles enlarged and prominent, and the surface covered with a viscid muco-purulent secretion (hypertrophic or granular pharyngitis). In others the mucous membrane is smooth and glazed, and dry scabs adhere to its surface (atrophic pharyngitis). The symptoms are the same in kind as those of acute catarrhal pharyngitis, but less pronounced. The patient is liable to repeated acute exacerbations. Treatment should first be directed towards improving the condition of the gastro-intestinal tract. Any abnormal condition in the nasal passages should also be corrected. The local treat- ment is carried out on the same lines as in the more acute form of pharyngitis. In the granular form the hypertrophied follicles may be destroyed by the galvano-cautery. When the tonsils share in the hypertrophy they may be removed.