TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. 329 upon a gonorrhoea, sometimes of long standing, and in either sex it may be limited to the pelvis—pelvic peritonitis—or may become generalised. A characteristic feature is that the onset is very acute, and is followed by an abatement of the urgent symptoms; and that, in spite of the apparent gravity of the illness, the patient may gradually recover with or without the formation of extensive pelvic adhesions. The diagnosis of the gonorrhoeal origin of a given case of peritonitis may be difficult, unless gonococci are discovered in the discharge from the cervix, vagina or urethra. The question of operative inter- ference is still an open one, chiefly because recovery is known to be possible without having recourse to it. At the same time, incision and drainage have yielded excellent results even when the outlook seemed grave in the extreme, and the re- moval of a quantity of purulent exudate, and of a pyo,salpinx when this is present, affords the patient a better prospect of rapid and complete recovery than when the condition is left to nature. Chronic Peritonitis.—It appears inadvisable to apply this term to the reparative changes in the peritoneum which attend upon almost every form of intra-abdominal disease. A primary and progressive chronic peritonitis can scarcely be said to exist apart from such chronic infections as tubercle, syphilis, or actinomycosis. Peritoneal Tuberculosis and Tuberculous Peritonitis.—This affection is specially common in children and young adults, although it may be met with at any period of life. It rarely exists as an independent disease, being usually secondary to some other tuberculous lesion. This may involve the intestines, the Fallopian tubes, or the abdominal lymphatic glands, the peri- toneum being infected by direct extension. Tuberculous disease of the lung or pleura may spread to the peritoneum by way of the lymphatics, while tubercle of the bronchial glands, the bones, and joints, or the genito-urinary organs, may travel by way of the blood stream. Acute miliary tuberculosis usually affects the peritoneum and pleurse simultaneously, and is met with chiefly as part of a general tuberculosis. The general symptoms may overshadow the local signs to such an extent that the condition may be mistaken for typhoid fever. The disease is not amenable to surgical interference, and is usually fatal within a few months of the onset. The chronic forms of peritoneal tuberculosis are much more important. For descriptive purposes they may be divided into