364 HERNIA. operation. The disappearance of the hernial contents should be complete, and should be tested for by passing the finger into the hernial canal. A pad and spica bandage are applied over the hernial orifice, and the patient should be kept in bed until the treatment of the hernia by truss or operation has been decided upon. Dangers from Taxis.—The bowel may sustain further damage, favouring the occurrence of gangrene, or it may be actually ruptured; if the contents of the sac are septic, they may be returned within the peritoneal cavity and give rise to peritonitis. The most frequent accident, however, is that known as apparent or false reduction, of which there are three principal forms :— (1) Rupture of the sac in the region of its neck, and escape of the contents into the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue; when this occurs, the surgeon recognises that the reduction is obviously incomplete. (2) Reduction into another sac. This is most likely to occur where there are two sacs with a common neck, at which the bowel is strangulated. The bowel is forced by the taxis from one sac into the other, the strangulation at the neck of the sac being still unrelieved. This accident is met with chiefly in interstitial hernia. (3) Reduction en bloc or en masse. This is usually the result of long-continued and ill- regulated taxis, the whole sac being forced within the abdominal wall, although still outside the peritoneum, the relations of sac and contents to one another being unaltered, and the strangula- tion at the neck still persisting. In all of these forms of false reduction the symptoms of strangulation continue, and a fulness and sense of resistance may still be felt in the region in which the displacement has occurred. The manipulator, moreover, is usually conscious that although he has changed the position of the hernia he has not relieved the obstruction. When this accident occurs, an operation should immediately be performed for the relief of the strangu- lated bowel. Taxis should not be had recourse to when the hernia, previous to the onset of strangulation, had been irreducible, when the symptoms are very acute, with profound constitutional de- pression, when the strangulation is of considerable duration,— twenty-four hours or more,—or when the coverings of the hernia are inflamed. Operative Treatment. — Failing reduction by taxis, there should be no delay in having recourse to the operation of herniotomy, which in itself is not a serious one : the danger to the patient consists in it being performed too late. In aged