CANCER. G09 may originate in a pre-existing papilloma, particularly of the sessile, warty type. The tumour tissue infiltrates the wall of the bladder, causing induration, fixation, and adhesion to surrounding structures. The exposed surface of the tumour may become encrusted with phosphates. As the patient usually succumbs at a comparatively early stage to septic complications in the urinary tract, or to obstruction of the ureters and suppression of urine, metastasis to lymphatic glands or to distant organs is exceptional. The clinical features of vesical cancer are similar to those of villous growth, but the haematuria is less abundant and more continuous. Cystitis from superadded pyogenic infection sets in early, and causes frequent and painful micturition and im- pairment of the general health. The later stages of the disease are attended with great suffering; spasmodic contractions of the bladder causing unbearable agony, which is only relieved by large doses of hyoscyamus or the inhalation of a few drops of chloroform on a handkerchief. The patient finally succumbs with symptoms of pyelo-nephritis and uraemia. The diagnosis is to be made with the cystoscope, or, failing this, by opening the bladder above the pubes; growths which are palpable on rectal or bimanual examination are usually beyond removal by surgical means. Treatment.—Removal of the disease is only to be attempted when it is strictly localised. The bladder is widely opened above the pubes, preferably by Kocher’s incision. The portion of bladder wrall affected should be removed along with the tumour, and as this is not possible in the case of tumours situated in or near the trigone, these are better left alone. Tumours on the anterior wall are most amenable to radical removal. Should one of the ureters be involved, the affected portion is removed along with the growth, and the proximal end inserted through a fresh opening into the bladder. When removal is contra-indicated, the bleeding is arrested, and the patient is rendered more comfortable by supra-pubic drainage, although this does not altogether get rid of the painful spasms. Complete extirpation of the bladder is rarely indicated, because when the disease is so extensive as to necessitate it, it is seldom confined to the bladder. When the operation is performed the ureters are inserted into the bowel. Sarcoma of the bladder is rare, and is met with, in children as well as in adults. The clinical features vary in different cases; hcematuria, frequent and painful micturition attended with straining are usually present, and there may be sudden VOL. II—39