295 TUBERCULOSIS. cases the mammary tissue becomes infected by direct spread of a tuberculous focus from the ribs, sternum, pleura, or axillary glands. Clinical Features.—-The disease is almost invariably met with in women between the ages of twenty-live and thirty-five. There is usually a history of injury or of a previous inflamma- tion or abscess in the breast, and as a rule the patient suffers from some other tuberculous lesion. The condition is usually unilateral. Its onset is slow and insidious, and, not being attended with pain, the disease is usually well established ere it is recognised. In the early stages the breast is swollen, brawny and nodular; later, several small areas of softening appear, and run together, forming an irregular, ill-defined mass in the substance of the breast. Gradually the swelling reaches the sub- cutaneous tissue and invades the skin, which ultimately gives way at one or more points, forming sinuses with characteristically under- mined edges. The ax- illary glands are almost always infected, in some cases even before the swelling in the breast is recognisable. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the affected glands. Fig. 60.—Tuberculous Disease of Right Breast Actinomycosis hasoc- with Cold Abscess and Sinus near Nipple, casionally been met with in the breast. Clinically it closely simulates tuberculous disease. The diagnosis is made by finding the ray fungus in the discharge. Excision of the whole mamma is the safest line of treatment. Neuralgia of the breast or mastodynia is a condition usually met with in neurotic young women, who suffer at the same time from disturbances of the generative organs. The pain, which is usually worst during the menstrual period, is described by the patient as being very severe, and of a burning or shooting character. As a rule it affects only one breast, and this is excessively tender even to the gentlest touch. In the majority of cases no local cause for the pain can be discovered. In others,