9G DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND COED. the vertebral bodies and the limited range of movement in this segment of the spine, is seldom accompanied by marked symptoms or deformity. The diagnosis, therefore, is often very difficult. The disease may be associated with pain in the distribution of the sciatic nerve, which is liable to be mistaken for ordinary sciatica. Single or double iliac abscess frequently forms without the patient showing any characteristic signs of spinal disease. When the disease occurs in children it may induce a permanent deformity of the pelvis, the transverse diameter being di- minished—kyphotic pelvis. Tuberculous Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint.—This con- dition may occur as a primary affection, but is much more frequently secondary to dis- ease in the ilium, sacrum, or lower lumbar vertebrae, and is most common in adolescents and young adults of the male sex. It is attended with pain in the lumbar region, and some- times in the buttock and along the course of the sciatic nerve. The pain is aggravated by movements, especially such as involve sudden and violent contractions of the lumbar and abdominal muscles, for ex- ample, coughing, sneezing, or straining during defecation. The pain is frequently referred to the loin, the buttock, or the back of the thigh. Tenderness is elicited on making pressure over the joint, on pressing together the iliac bones, or on attempting to abduct the corresponding limb while the pelvis is fixed. As any attempt to bear weight on the limb of the affected side causes pain, the patient walks with a limp, and to save the joint he assumes an attitude which is characteristic. He throws his weight on the sound limb, leans forward using a stick for support, tilts the affected side of the pelvis downwards, and flexes the hip and knee-joints on the affected side. The anterior superior spine is unduly prominent on the affected side, and the limb appears to be lengthened. The muscles of the buttock and thigh are atrophied. Sooner or later, in most cases, an abscess forms, and the pus may reach the Fig. 19.—Right Iliac Abscess from disease of the lumbar spiue.