434 THE INTESTINES. bowel, it is advisable to evacuate the contents through the opening made to extract the stone, and if the bowel itself is much damaged, it should either be resected or brought out at the wound, fixed there, and drained. If the stone is not found, an artificial anus must be made in the lowest distended loop of bowel. Among the other solid bodies which may block the intestine may be mentioned fsecal concretions or enteroliths, concretions of insoluble drugs, such as magnesia or salol, taken over a long period in large doses, plates of false teeth, and the various foreign bodies swallowed by lunatics, and by mountebanks to “gain a livelihood.” The clinical features may be those of intestinal obstruction, or of ulcerative and septic conditions, for example, perforative and other forms of peritonitis, abscess, and faecal fistula, due to pressure of the foreign body on the bowel. The diagnosis is difficult unless an accurate history is forth- coming, or the foreign body can be demonstrated by means of the Rontgen rays. Treatment is conducted on the same lines .as in gall-stone ileus. Stenosis of the Bowel, including Stricture, Malformations, and Tumours.—It may be stated generally that the appear- ances observed on post-mortem examination do not always accurately represent the degree of narrowing of the lumen of the bowel which results from the various forms of stricture. As in other tubes provided with an abundant blood- supply and with circular muscular fibres—for example, the gullet, the urethra, or the pylorus—the elements of congestion and spasm which may be present during life sometimes add consider- ably to the narrowing of the bowel. Hence the features of obstruction are liable to vary from time to time, although the cicatricial element is constant throughout. Simple stricture is a comparatively rare lesion, and nearly always affects the small intestine. It is met with chiefly as a sequel to tuberculous ulcers in the lower end of the ileum, and is then often multiple—from three to five separate constrictions may be present (Fig. 99). The gut between the individual strictures is markedly dilated, and its peritoneal coat may present a number of scattered greyish or yellow tubercles. Stricture may follow on a strangulated hernia which has been reduced by operation, the cicatricial contraction taking place in the site of the con- striction groove at one, or at both ends of the loop of bowel inqflicated in the hernia. Stricture is extremely rare as a sequel of wounds of the bowel and of incomplete rupture of its coats. The coils of bowel above that which is narrowed present a