TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 645 and tlie catheter is changed every second or third day, as it tends to become coated with phosphates. If there is such severe ure- thritis and cystitis that it is unwise to tie a catheter into the whole length of the urethra, the bladder should be drained through the perineal wound by means of Syme’s S-shaped catheter. After the urethritis and cystitis have subsided, bougies are passed at intervals. Perineal Section for Impermeable Stricture.—When an instru- ment cannot be passed into the bladder the urethra must be opened in front of the stricture. A staff, of the pattern intro- duced by Wheelhouse, is passed down to the stricture with its grooved surface looking towards the perineum. The patient is then placed in the lithotomy position, and the surgeon cuts down on the end of the staff in the middle line of the perineum, and opens the urethra by cutting on the groove in the staff. The edges of the opening are held aside by thread retractors, and the staff rotated so that the hook on the end of it projects through the opening, and then pulled up slightly so as to retract the upper angle of the opening and put the urethra on the stretch. With the aid of a probe-director the surgeon then searches for the lumen of the stricture, which can sometimes be demonstrated by expressing urine from the bladder. The director is passed through the stricture, which is then slit open along the floor throughout its whole length. The final steps of the operation and the after-treatment are the same as in Syme’s operation. If the surgeon fail to find the lumen of the stricture, recourse must be had to the retrograde method, the bladder being opened above the pubes, and a probe passed from the internal meatus and out at the wound in the perineum after the method described in ruptured urethra. Resection of the strictured portion of the urethra has been successfully practised ; the cut ends are stitched to each other over a rubber catheter ; or if they are too widely separated for this, an attempt may be made to form a new urethra by means of a graft taken from the mucous membrane of the lower lip. When the gap in the urethra is so extensive that it cannot be bridged, as in cases of complete rupture associated with fracture of the pelvis, or of destruction of the urethra by extensive sloughing, the patient may have to be content with a permanent fistula in the perineum. Urination is necessarily performed in the sitting posture, but is completely under control. Complications of Stricture.—Acute Retention.—This nearly always follows exposure to cold after indulgence in alcohol, and is due to superadded congestion and spasm. Unless there is