185 INSPECTION OE THE EAR. these facts we find also that in obstructive deafness low tones tend to be lost first, while in nerve deafness the higher notes are the first to go. This may be investigated by tuning-forks of different pitch or with the aid of a Galton’s whistle. Again, in middle-ear deafness, hearing may be better in a noisy place, and may be improved by inflation of the tympanum ; while in labyrinthine deafness, hearing may be better in a quiet room, and may be rendered worse by inflation. Inspection of the Ear.—This should be carried out by the aid of reflected light, the ear to be examined being turned away from the window, lamp, or other source of light which may be employed. A small ear reflector, either held in the hand or attached to a forehead band, and a set of aural specula are required. Before introducing the speculum, the outer ear and adjacent parts should be examined, and the presence of redness, swelling, sinuses or cicatrices over the mastoid, displacement of the auricle, or any inflammatory condition of the outer ear observed. In order to inspect the tympanic membrane, a medium-sized speculum held between the thumb and index finger is insinuated into the cartilaginous meatus, the auricle being at the same time pulled upwards and backwards by the middle and ring fingers, so as to straighten the canal. The tympanic membrane is then sought for and its appearance noted. The normal membrane is concave as a whole on its meatal aspect; it occupies a doubly oblique plane, being so placed that its superior and posterior parts are nearer the eye of the examiner than the anterior and inferior parts. While varying to some extent in colour, polish and transparency, it presents a bluish-grey appearance. The handle of the malleus traverses the membrane as a whitish-yellow ridge, which passes from its upper and anterior part downwards and backwards to a point a little below the centre. At the lower end of the handle of the malleus a bright triangular cone of light passes downwards and forwards to the periphery of the membrane. At the upper end of the handle is a white knob-like projection, the short process of the malleus. Passing forwards and backwards from this are the anterior and posterior folds. The portion of the membrane situated above the short process is known as Shrapnell’s membrane. Behind the malleus the long process of the incus may be visible through the membrane. The mobility of the membrana tympani should be tested by inflating the tympanum or by the use of Siegle’s pneumatic speculum. Various departures from the normal may be observed. Atrophy of the membrane is characterised by extreme trans-