565 STONE IN THE KIDNEY. blocked the symptoms become aggravated, although the pus may disappear from the urine. There is high fever with or without rigors, the pain may amount to renal colic, and the kidney becomes enlarged and tender. Variations in the size and tenderness of the kidney, and in the amount of pus in the urine, are characteristic of a pyonephrosis which is alternately open and shut. The diagnosis is difficult in the absence of a palpable tumour of the kidney and of abundant pus in the urine. Most reliance is to be placed on examination of the urine obtained separately from each kidney by catheterisation of the ureters. If both kidneys are affected the freezing-point of the blood is lowered. The treatment depends on the conditions present. In the ascending infections it must be directed towards the disease in the lower urinary organs as well as towards the kidney. So far as the kidney is concerned the surgical treatment resolves itself into nephrotomy or nephrectomy. Washing out with a 1 in 1000 solution of silver nitrate by means of a ureteral catheter intro- duced from the bladder may do good when the pelvis alone is involved. Nephrotomy is indicated in cases of pyonephrosis in which there is a prospect of re-establishing the outflow through the ureter, and in which all the cavities in the kidney can be opened up and drained without destroying the functions of the organ. Nephreetomy is indicated in more severe cases, especially when there is irremediable obstruction in the ureter, and when there is suppuration around the kidney which can only be properly dealt with after removal of the organ. The gravity of the operation is greatly increased if the freezing-point of the blood shows that the total renal functions are markedly impaired. At the same time the more critical the case, the more should it be our aim to cure the patient by one operation, and this is most likely to be effected by primary nephrectomy. Nephrectomy is performed by the lumbar route, and the divided ureter should be brought out at the wound. Stone in the Kidney and Ureter—Calculous Diseases— N EPHRO-LITHIASIS. We are here concerned only with the formation of a stone in a kidney which was previously healthy, that following on disease of the kidney—secondary stone—is referred to under the different affections in which it occurs. General Characters of Urinary Calculi.—A stone consists of