669 TUMOURS OF THE TESTIS. testis is seldom implicated. These swellings rapidly disappear under the influence of mercury. Tumours of the Testis. Tumours of the testis are exceedingly difficult to classify either on a pathological or on a clinical basis. This arises from the fact that some varieties are composed of several different histo- logical elements, not one of which predominates sufficiently to characterise the growth, and that other varieties show a marked tendency to undergo cystic and other forms of degeneration, and so to lose their original characters. Another peculiarity of testicular tumours is that they are specially prone to malignant transformation, so that a tumour which is originally innocent may eventually infect adjacent glands and become disseminated in distant parts of the body. Some of the varieties met with are so rare that it is not necessary to do more than name them here, for example, fibroma, myxoma, myoma, osteoma and teratoma. Others, such as the lymphadenoma and the different varieties of chondroma, seldom occur except in combination with sarcomatous elements, and are therefore most conveniently included among malignant growths. In all these varieties early removal is the treatment indicated. Carcinoma and Sarcoma.—The soft, medullary or encephaloid carcinoma is, for all practical purposes, the only form of carcinoma of the testis which need be referred to. All varieties of sarcoma are met with, the soft, rapidly growing, cellular forms being the most common. As it is seldom possible to distinguish clinically between a carcinoma and a sarcoma, and as a microscopic ex- amination of the growth does not always serve to remove the doubt, it is convenient to consider these two forms of malignant growth together. Opinions differ as to which is the more common. Clinical Features.—These tumours may occur at any age, the majority being met with between the ages of twenty-five and forty-five. Sarcoma is not uncommon in children below the age of ten, but carcinoma is seldom, if ever, met with in patients so young. Sarcoma may affect both testes, while carcinoma is almost invariably unilateral. The swelling of the testis may come on insidiously, without obvious cause, but not infrequently it is observed to follow an injury. The patient complains of a dragging pain along the line of the spermatic cord, but the testicular swelling is neither painful nor tender. Testicular sensation is soon lost. The