163 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. the excess of epithelium, but stronger caustics are to be avoided. Constitutional treatment is of little use even when the patient has suffered from syphilis. The “ smoker's patch ” consists of a small oval area on the front of the tongue from which the papillae have disappeared. It is slightly raised, smooth and red, and may be covered with a yellowish-brown or yellowish-white crust. It causes no dis- comfort unless the crust is removed and a raw sensitive surface exposed. The condition is liable to spread over the tongue if the patient persists in smoking. It may eventually assume the characters of leucoplakia. The treatment consists in stopping smoking, painting the patches with chromic acid, tannic acid, or alum, and using a chlorate of potash mouth-wash. Tuberculous Disease.—The tongue is very rarely the primary seat of tuberculosis. In the majority of cases the patient suffers from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis, and the tongue is infected by bacilli from the sputum. In other cases the infection is secondary to lupus of the face or nose. When associated with pulmonary disease it is most frequently met with in adult males. When secondary to lupus it is usually females who suffer. The condition has been observed in children. The condition is met with clinically either as a tubercle nodule in the substance of the tongue or as an ulcer. In the nodular form a lump, seldom larger than a hazel-nut, appears on one side or near the tip of the tongue. At first the swelling is covered by epithelium, and is firm and painless. In time caseation takes place, the epithelium gives way, tuberculous debris escapes, and an open sore is formed. The tuberculous ulcer is the form most frequently met with. The surface of the ulcer is uneven, pale and flabby, and is covered with a yellowish-grey discharge, with here and there feeble granulations showing through. The edges are shreddy, sinuous in outline, and there is little or no induration. The surrounding parts are slightly swollen, and may be the seat of several small tubercle nodules. The ulcer may be quite superficial, or it may extend into the muscular substance. The tip of the tongue may be completely eaten away so that it looks as if it had been cut off with a knife (Fig. 45). As the disease advances there is severe pain and usually profuse salivation. The submaxillary glands may be, but are not always, enlarged. Healing of the ulcer may take place, but is usually only tem- porary. Primary ulcers should be removed along with the affected portion of the tongue. Even when secondary to pulmonary