677 THE SEMINAL VESICLES. In tlie acute variety the urethral discharge ceases, there is con- siderable fever, with jiain and tenderness above Poupart’s ligament, rendering the patient unable to stand up or go about. There is pain on micturition and defecation, and there may be a good deal of urgency as well as frequency of micturition ; tlie patient is wakened by painful erections. Rectal examination reveals a hot, throbbing, tender swelling in the position of the seminal vesicle on one or both sides. Resolution usually occurs with a free discharge of pus into the urethra, most of the pus escaping with the urine; rarely an abscess forms in the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, and still more rarely the inflammation spreads to the peritoneum, resulting in a local or general peritonitis. The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is raised ; the bowels are emptied by repeated hot-water enemata. Pain is relieved by anodyne suppositories and by poultices applied to the perineum. No local treatment to the urethra should be employed. The patient is confined to bed for about three weeks. In chronic vesiculitis, which may be a sequel of the acute variety or may develop insidiously, the vesicle becomes distended with fluid; its walls become sclerosed, and granulations which bleed readily may form on the mucous membrane. Faceted calculi composed of phosphate of lime have been observed in isolated cases. The clinical features resemble those of the acute variety, but are less marked. Pain is complained of after exertion, especially on horseback or cycle, after sexual excite- ment, or the passage of instruments. The patient is often con- cerned because of the persistence of discharge from the urethra, in spite of treatment directed to the latter; the discharge is specially noticed after straining at stool. In some cases there is i sensation of pain, weight, or discomfort referred to the penis, testicles, or scrotum, or of pains in the loin and thighs, described is lumbago or sciatica. The patient is often depressed and melancholy; lie broods over his troubles, and is apprehensive of lis sexual functions. The diagnosis is made by rectal examination, when the dis- tended and tender seminal vesicle is felt with the finger; if there is much distension, the contents are expressed into the irethra and escape at the meatus; it is watery like skim milk, nuco-purulent, and is sometimes tinged with blood. In the treatment of this affection it is often difficult to lecide whether to trust entirely to the vis medicatrix naturae, issisted by measures directed to improve the general and par- ticularly the mental health, such as plain living, open-air exercise,