RANTTLA. 179 or submaxillary, and spreads thence to the salivary gland tissue. Tumours.—Cystic Tumours—Ranula.—The term ranula is applied to any cystic tumour formed in connection witli the salivary glands in the floor of the mouth. Formerly these tumours were believed to be retention cysts due to blocking of the salivary ducts. They are now known to be the result of a cystic degeneration of one or other of the secreting glands in the floor of the mouth. They contain a thick glairy fluid which differs from saliva in containing a considerable quantity of mucin and albumin, while it is free from any amylolytic ferment or sulpho- cyanide of potassium. Numerous degenerated epithelial cells are found in the fluid. The sublingual ranula is the most common variety. It appears as a painless, smooth, tense, globular swelling of a bluish colour. It usually lies on one side of the frenum, and over it the mucous membrane moves freely. A probe can usually be passed along Wharton’s duct. As it increases in size it gradually pushes the tongue towards the roof of the mouth, and so causes interference with speech, mastication, and swallowing. The treatment consists in making an incision through the mucous membrane over the swelling, dissecting away as much of the cyst wall as possible, and swabbing the remainder with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce). The cavity is then stuffed with iodoform gauze and allowed to close by granulation. It is sometimes found more satisfactory to dissect out the cyst through an incision below the jaw. Cystic tumours form in the other glands in the floor of the mouth, for example, the incisive gland, which lies just behind the symphysis menti, as well as in Blandin’s gland on the under aspect of the tip of the tongue. They differ from the sublingual ranula only in their position. In rare cases children are born with a cystic swelling in the floor of the mouth—the so-called congenital ranula. It is usually due to an imperfect development of the duct of the submaxillary or sublingual gland. Solid Tumours—Mixed Tumours of the Parotid.—The most important of the solid tumours met with in the salivary glands is the so-called “ mixed tumour of the parotid,” which is now believed to be an endothelioma derived from a proliferation of the endothelial cells lining the lymph spaces and blood-vessels of the gland. In some places the structure is that of an adenoma, in others it resembles cartilage, or it may be myxomatous, sarcomatous, or angiomatous, the proportion of these different elements varying in individual specimens. A gelatinous sub-