30 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. Punctured wounds may be inflicted on the vault by stabs with a knife or dagger, or by the sharp spikes of a railing. More frequently a pointed instrument, such as a fencing foil, the end of an umbrella, or a knitting needle, is thrust through the orbit into the base of the brain. Occasionally the base of the skull has been perforated through the back wall of the pharynx, for example, by the stem of a tobacco-pipe. All such wounds are; of necessity compound, and, as the point of the instrument is very liable to break off and remain inside the skull, the risk of septic infection is considerable. The septic com- plications of such injuries are described later. Bullet wounds have many features in common with punctured wounds. There is more contusion of the brain substance, disintegrated brain matter is usually found in the wound of entrance of the bullet, and the bullet often carries in with it pieces of bone, cloth, or wad, thus adding to the risk of septic infection. In a number of cases, aseptic foreign bodies, especially bullets, remain embedded in the brain without producing symptoms. The treatment of punctured wounds consists in opening up the wound, removing any foreign body which may be in it, purifying its track, and establishing drainage. After-effects of Head Injuries.—Various after-effects may follow on injuries of the head. Thus, for example, chronic interstitial changes (sclerosis) may spread from an area of cicatrisation in the brain and cause gradually increasing functional disturbance; or cerebral softening may ensue, either in the form of pale areas of necrosis (white softening) or of haemorrhagic patches (red softening). The symptoms vary with the area implicated. Adhesions between the brain and its membranes may produce attacks of vertigo and pain, especially on the patient making sudden movements. Traumatic epilepsy is a comparatively common sequel of such injuries as cause the symptoms of concussion or compres- sion. The disease is due to some circumscribed cortical lesion, such as a spicule of bone driven into the cortex, the presence of adhesions between the membranes and the brain, or of a haemorrhagic cyst in the membranes or cerebral tissue. Cica- trices in the brain tissue leading to sclerosis have also caused Jacksonian epilepsy. The role of cicatrices in the scalp in the production of traumatic epilepsy is more than doubtful. The convulsive attacks are of the Jacksonian type, beginning in one particular group of muscles and spreading thence to neighbouring groups till the whole body is affected. The disease