INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 81 In the cervical region distortion usually results either from forcible extension of the neck — for example, from a violent blow or fall on the forehead forcing the head backwards—or from forcible flexion of the neck. The patient complains of severe pains in the neck, and inability to move the head, which is often rigidly held in the position of ordinary wry-neck. There is marked tenderness on attempting to carry out passive move- ments, and on making pressure over the affected vertebrae or on the top of the head. The maximum point of tenderness in- dicates the vertebra most implicated. In diagnosis, fracture and dislocation are excluded by the absence of any alteration in the relative positions of the bony points, and by the fact that passive movements, although painful, are possible in all directions. In the lumbar region sprains are usually due to over-exertion in lifting heavy weights, or to the patient having been suddenly thrown backwards and forwards in a railway collision. The attachments of the muscles of the loins are probably the parts most affected. The back is kept rigid, and there is pain on movement, particularly on rising from the stooping posture, Treatment.—Unless carefully treated, the symptoms of spinal sprain are liable to cause prolonged disablement. The patient should be kept at rest in bed, and in the cervical region ex- tension may be applied to the head with the nape of the neck supported on a roller-pillow. Fomentations or ice-bags are employed for a few days to relieve the pain. After a week or ten days, recourse may be had to massage and stimulating liniments. Active movements are forbidden till all symptoms have disappeared. In patients predisposed to tuberculosis, the period of complete rest should be materially prolonged. When there is persistent disablement, counter-irritation followed by massage, exercises, and cold douching, is the treat- ment indicated. Isolated Dislocations of Articular Processes.—This injury, which is most frequently met with in the cervical region, and is nearly always unilateral, is commonly produced by the patient falling from a vehicle which suddenly starts, and landing on the head or shoulders, flexing and twisting the neck. The articular process of the upper vertebra passes forward. The pain and tenderness are much less marked than in the case of a simple twist, as the ligaments are completely torn and are therefore not in a state of tension. The patient often thinks lightly of the condition at the time of the accident, and may only apply for advice some time after on account of the per- VOL. II—6