EPITHELIOMA OF ANUS. 535 segment of the bowel is now divided above and below the growth and removed. When possible the sphincteric region should be preserved in order that the upper end may be brought down and stitched to it, and so enable the patient to retain control of the bowels. When the whole circumference of the upper end cannot be brought into contact with the lower end, if possible the anterior walls should be stitched, to prevent extravasation of faeces into the cellular planes of the pelvis. When the rectum has to be removed right down to the anus, the divided upper end is stitched to the skin. The wound is packed with gauze and encouraged to heal by granulation. A certain amount of control of the bowels is usually obtained. Colostomy.—In cases in which it is impossible to eradicate the disease, much relief may be afforded by colostomy. This operation should be performed before there are symptoms of obstruction. It can then be done in two stages, an interval of several days being allowed to elapse between the withdrawal of the loop and the opening of it. The resulting artificial anus gives less trouble if the external loop be completely divided across than if merely an opening is made into it. In inoperable cases the palliative treatment consists in regulating the diet of the patient in such a way as to diminish the quantity of fmcal matter. The bowel should be washed out frequently with mild antiseptic lotions, such as boracic acid. When pain is a prominent feature opium must be given, either in the form of suppositories or by hypodermic injection. Sarcoma is very rarely met with. When it occurs it originates in the submucous tissue, and is usually situated low down in the bowel near the anal orifice, where it forms a soft, globular mass, which grows rapidly and tends to fungate early. The sacral, lumbar, and inguinal glands are usually soon infected, and metastasis to the lung, pleura, or peritoneum is liable to occur early. Sarcoma gives rise to symptoms very like those of cancer, but it usually occurs at an earlier age. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for cancer, but the great liability to local recurrence and to metastasis renders the prognosis even less favourable. Epithelioma of the Anus.—Squamous epithelioma occurs at the muco-cutaneous junction. It begins as a nodular thickening of the skin or mucous membrane, which later develops a series of raw, warty projections on the surface. There is a scanty discharge of thin ichorous fluid, which dries on the sore and forms a crust. The base of the sore