MASTOID DISEASE. 195 ear and its contents must not be touched, lest the function of the organ be interfered with. A curved incision is made over the mastoid about a quarter of an inch behind, and parallel with, the attachment of the auricle. The periosteum is detached and the auricle turned forward until the posterior and superior walls of the osseous meatus are exposed. If a sinus is found, it should be enlarged by means of a gouge, as it almost certainly communicates with the antrum. If there is no sinus, the gouge should be applied in the supra- meatal triangle, which is bounded above by the posterior root of the zygoma, below by the upper and posterior segment of the bony external meatus, and behind by an imaginary line joining these (Macewen). The instrument should be directed forwards and inwards to avoid injuring the sigmoid sinus. If the opening be carried too high, the middle fossa of the skull may be opened. At this stage of the operation the facial nerve may be damaged. The antrum and cells having been freely opened up, the cavity is irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze, which is renewed daily till the discharge ceases and the cavity is filled in by granulation. When mastoid suppuration is associated with chronic middle- ear disease, it is usually necessary to perform the complete radical operation—Stackers operation—which consists in throw- ing the antrum, attic, and middle ear into one cavity. After the mastoid antrum and cells have been fully opened up, the soft parts lining the meatus are detached from the upper and back part of the canal. A bent-pointed probe is then passed into the attic of the tympanum and through the aditus, and the bridge of bone between the antrum and the meatus removed with a small chisel or burr. At this stage of the operation the instrument should be directed upwards and forwards to avoid the facial nerve, and care must be taken in removing granulations from this part that the nerve is not injured. The position of the nerve may be determined by going over the part with a probe, facial twitchings resulting if the nerve is touched. If on exposing the tympanum the ossicles are found denuded of mucous membrane, covered with granulations, or carious, they should be removed, together with the remains of the tympanic membrane. The next step is to examine the roof of the antrum to see if there is a perforation leading into the middle cranial fossa. If so, it should be enlarged and drained. Towards the back of the antrum a perforation may be found leading down to the sigmoid sinus. This also should be enlarged. The mastoid flap is then replaced and the cavity packed with iodoform