THE URINARY BLADDER. 598 cystitis is that directed towards the condition with which it is associated, such as stricture, enlarged prostate, stone, or tumour. Special Forms of Cystitis. — Gonorrhoeal cystitis results from the extension of the gonococcal infection from the posterior urethra to the bladder, and involves chiefly the region of the neck and trigone. It is remarkable for the frequency and severity of the spasms which attend micturition, the urine being passed with great agony in very small quantities. Gonococci as well as ordinary pus microbes are usually found in stained films of the pus. Treat- ment is conducted on the lines already indicated; the spasms are to be relieved by large doses of henbane or opium; if the disease persists, instillation into the neck of the bladder of a solution of silver nitrate, protargol, or argyrol should be carried out, or the bladder may be irrigated with permanganate of potash solution, 1 in 5000. Typhoid cystitis due to the typhoid bacillus occurs in the later stages of the fever, or during convalescence. Cystitis complicating lesions of the spinal cord is remark- able for the absence of any complaint on the part of the patient. The urine rapidly becomes loaded with pus and readily under- goes alkaline fermentation. The amount of pus and the reaction of the urine vary from time to time, as if there were waves of activity on the part of the bacteria concerned. The patient is directed to take large quantities of fluids and full doses of uro- tropin and salol. The latter may be pushed until the urine presents a slight greenish tinge. The bladder should be washed out twice daily with boracic lotion, and occasionally with a half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver. In the male, if there is complete incontinence, the penis is wrapped round with sterilised gauze and inserted into the neck of a urine bottle—the latter being frequently changed and disinfected; or a catheter is in- serted into the bladder and connected with a suction apparatus. In the female it is better to insert a catheter, which conducts the urine into a receiver, or is connected to the suction apparatus. If there are threatenings of ascending renal infection the question of cystotomy may be considered; in the male this is done by the perineal route, in the female through the anterior wall of the vagina, the incision commencing a little below the cervix uteri; a drainage-tube is inserted through the wound, and attached to a suction apparatus. Tuberculous Cystitis—Tuberculosis of the Bladder.—The bladder appears to lie fairly resistant to infection by tubercle bacilli contained in the urine, and is practically never the seat of a primary infection from the blood Yesical tuberculosis is