258 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. to recur after removal. They sometimes disappear spontaneously about puberty. The most prominent symptoms are hoarseness, aphonia, and dyspnoea, which in children may be paroxysmal. The treatment consists in removing the growth by means of laryngeal forceps or snare under cocain and adrenalin anaesthesia. For the removal of multiple papillomata in children it is usually necessary to open the larynx by thyrotomy or by laryn- gotomy. In a certain number of cases it has been found that the tumour disappears after the larynx has been put at rest by the operation of tracheotomy. Cancer.—Epithelioma of the larynx is a comparatively rare affection. It is almost always primary, and usually occurs in males between the ages of forty and seventy. It is important to distinguish between those cases in which the growth first appears in the interior of the larynx—on the vocal cords, the ventricular bands, or in the sub-glottic cavity (intrinsic cancer)—and those in which it attacks the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds, or the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage (extrinsic cancer). Clinical Features.—In the great majority of cases of intrinsic cancer the first, and for many months the only, symptom is huskiness of the voice, which may go on to complete aphonia before any other evidence of the disease becomes manifest. As the growth increases and fills the cavity of the larynx, there is difficulty of breathing, and spasmodic attacks of dyspnoea, so urgent as to call for tracheotomy, may supervene. When ulceration of the growth takes place, these symptoms may be temporarily relieved. The patient coughs up quantities of frothy mucus tinged with blood, and the breath has an offensive odour. The larynx becomes broadened, and perichondritis, followed by the formation of abscess, may ensue. So long as the disease remains confined to the interior of the larynx, and there is no pain or difficulty in swallowing, there is but little disturbance of the general health, and the lymphatic glands show no tendency to become infected. On laryngoscopic examination the posterior parts of the vocal cords are found to be congested, dusky red and swollen, and there is more or less impairment of mobility of the cord from which the tumour springs. In doubtful cases a portion of the growth should be removed for microscopic examination. When the growth spreads into the tissues of the neck, the patient’s sufferings are greatly increased. The oesophagus may be invaded by the disease spreading from the box of the larynx,