363 STRANGULATED HERNIA. If the condition is not relieved, the patient sinks with symptoms of progressive toxaemia added to those of intestinal obstruction or of septic peritonitis. The only chance of natural recovery lies in the formation of a fcecal fistula. The hernial swelling becomes livid or dusky- red in colour, and it may crepitate from the presence of gas. Finally the skin sloughs, the putrid contents of the sac are dis- charged externally, and the discharge gradually becomes faecal. When omentum is strangulated alone the symptoms are similar, but are less urgent, and there is not the same risk to life. Diagnosis.—The patient himself may be ignorant of the fact that he suffers from hernia, and in stout people a small hernia is liable to be overlooked even when sought for. An irreducible hernia may be present, and yet the symptoms of obstruction be due to an independent affection of the bowel, such as gall-stone ileus. The vomiting may be due to torsion of the testicle, to appendicitis, or to biliary or renal colic. If there is any possi- bility that the hernia is the cause of the symptoms, it is wiser to subject it to operation in the first instance. Prognosis.—It is rarely possible to infer the amount of damage to the bowel from the duration of the symptoms alone. Gangrene may take place within a few hours, while on the other hand the bowel may be found viable after strangulation of several days’ duration. Treatment. — The strangulation must be relieved and the contents of the hernia returned within the belly with the least possible delay. The reduction may be effected by means of taxis or by operation. Taxis.—By this is meant the reduction of a hernia by external manipulation. The foot of the bed must be raised considerably, and the patient placed in such an attitude as to relax the parts in the region of the hernial opening. If there is much pain morphin may be administered hypodermically. A rubber bottle filled with hot water, or an ice bag, is applied over the hernia; the use of ice, however, is to be avoided if there is any element of shock present, or if the vitality of the bowel is believed to be already endangered. The taxis is applied by steadying the neck of the sac with one hand, while the tumour is compressed by the other. The compression is carried out steadily and gently, and must not be persevered with unless there is a gradual diminution in the size of the tumour, or other indication of gradual and safe reduction. Any time limit for its application is misleading. A general anaesthetic should not be administered unless, in the event of failure, one is prepared to proceed to