475 BILIARY-FISTULA. tliose in which the communication is between the gall-bladder and an adjacent hollow viscus. Those which communicate with the bowel do not give rise to any symptoms, and nearly always close spontaneously. When the communication is with the stomach, the bile is poured into that organ, and this may give rise to no unpleasant symptoms, or may be attended with persistent bilious vomiting. If operative interference is called for, it should take the form of cholecystotomy and drainage, to afford the fistula a chance of closing. External fistulce open on the skin surface, and usually owe their origin to the rupture of a localised abscess associated with an impacted stone. The skin orifice is usually near the umbilicus. When a fistula persists after an operation for gall-stones, it is usually because all the stones have not been removed, or because the edges of the gall-bladder have been stitched to the skin instead of to the parietal peritoneum. Fistulas may discharge mucus or bile. A mucous fistula occurs when the cystic duct is blocked ; it is merely a source of inconvenience, and rarely calls for operative interference. Biliary fistula, on the other hand, is a distressing condition because of the amount of Idle discharged—this reaching to from thirty to fifty ounces in the twenty-four hours. The discharge takes place irregularly, but chiefly during the night and while the patient is fasting. An apparatus must be worn to collect the bile and prevent the clothing becoming soaked. Experience has shown that the loss of bile is not attended with any disturb- ance of digestion or nutrition. If the fistula proceeds from the gall-bladder and the common duct is patent, only a small amount of bile may escape externally, but if the common duct is obstructed, all the bile escapes. Biliary fistula is met with chiefly after operations in which the gall-bladder has been opened in cases of jaundice associated with obstruction of the common duct, the cause of which is not capable of being removed, such, for example, as cancer of the head of the pancreas or stricture of the common duct. The treatment depends upon the condition giving rise to the fistula. The most satisfactory cases are those in which there is a stone capable of being removed. In malignant disease, the fistula gives relief to the patient by diminishing or getting rid of the jaundice. Distension of the Gall-Bladder.—The gall-bladder may become distended so as to form a palpable abdominal tumour. The most common cause of such distension is the impaction of a stone in the cystic duct, in which case the gall-bladder contains