DIFFICULTIES DURING ANAESTHESIA. 701 normal respiration, that is, about eighteen or twenty to the minute. Care must be taken that the chest is firmly contracted by pressing the patient’s elbows well intoi his sides, and then fully expanded by carrying the arms well above the head ; an assistant or nurse should administer a hypodermic injection of strychnin, which may be supplemented with a dram of ether, while the introduction of about a pint of hot water into the rectum is often of great service. Rubbing the lips with a dry towel has a stimulating effect on the circulation and is useful in mild cases. The application of the interrupted current has been of service. A flat plate electrode is placed under the nape of the neck, and a button or wire-brush electrode between the heads of the sterno- mastoid muscles. Actual puncture of the heart with a needle electrode has been suggested. In abdominal operations, if the abdomen has already been opened, the surgeon may pass in his hand and massage the heart through the diaphragm. The direct mechanical stimulation thus applied has sometimes been followed by good results. In desperate cases portions of the third and fourth ribs have been resected, exposing the peri- cardium, and through the opening thus made direct massage has been applied to the heart. In cases in which this has been employed the benefit has been only temporary. Patients who become blue or cyanosed during anaesthesia do so as a rule from respiratory obstruction. A failing pulse may coexist: in the later stages and in more serious cases it always does. The cyanosis is more marked in the lips, ears, and malar prominences, and there is frequently masseteric spasm. The first thing to be done is to open the patient’s mouth with a wooden wedge or a gag, and pull out the tongue. If this does not clear the air-way the finger should be swept round the fauces to ascertain if any solid matter be lying there. If there is nothing to be found, and if rhythmical traction on the tongue and compression of the chest fail to improve the respiration, tracheotomy or laryngotomy should be performed, and artificial respiration carried out by Sylvester’s method. This should be kept up for over an hour, even if no signs of returning anima- tion are evinced, and it may be supplemented with the hypo- dermic injection of ether or strychnin, and rectal injection of hot saline solution. Hot cloths applied over the heart may be of service, but we have known severe scalds to have been caused by using these at too high a temperature.