348 APPENDICITIS. Diagnosis.—While it is true that in the majority of cases of acute appendicitis there is little difficulty in recognising the condition, in a considerable number the clinical features so closely simulate those of other acute abdominal affections that it is extremely difficult to arrive at a diagnosis. In the absence of definite local signs in the iliac fossa, for example, confusion may arise in relation to such conditions as renal or biliary colic, perforated gastric or duodenal ulcer, intestinal obstruction, acute poisonings, typhoid fever, ruptured pyosalpinx or sup- purative cholecystitis, the onset of acute pneumonia or diaphrag- matic pleurisy on the right side. In the case of children appendicitis may be simulated by latent tuberculous peritonitis with an acute exacerbation, softening tuberculous glands in the right iliac fossa, pneumo- coccal peritonitis, and inflammatory conditions at the base of the right lung and pleura. Before proceeding to operation a bimanual examination should be made under chloroform. In the presence of a swelling in the iliac fossa confusion may occur in regard to extra-uterine pregnancy, ileo-cajcal intussusception, or osteomyelitis of the ileum. Peri-appendicital swellings of some standing may be mistaken for malignant or tuberculous disease at the ileo-cajcal junction. Prognosis.—This should always be guarded in view of the treacherous character of the disease, and of its capacity of endangering life even in cases with a comparatively mild onset. The most favourable cases are those which begin to improve within twenty-four hours of the onset, and which continue to progress favourably. In a considerable number of cases, how- ever, serious symptoms suddenly supervene on the fourth or fifth day, after the patient has apparently been making satis- factory progress. Acceleration and weakening of the pulse, persistent constipation and continuous vomiting, progressive distension of the abdomen, and an alteration in the general appearance of the patient, are characteristic of the dangerous forms of the disease, and indicate a grave prognosis. Treatment.—Expectant measures are indicated in cases of appendicitis seen within a few hours of the onset. These consist in absolute rest in bed with the knees flexed over a pillow, and the application of cold-water tubes or ice to the right iliac fossa. The patient is allowed nothing but sips of hot saline solution, and, if necessary, a single dose of opium or morphin to subdue the pain. The bowels must not be disturbed either by medicine or enema, and palpation of the abdomen should be restricted to a minimum. The patient must be visited at frequent intervals,