330 THE PERITONEUM. two main types, according to whether the exudation of fiuid or the formation of adhesions is the predominant feature. Tuberculosis with Fluid Exudation—Tuberculous Ascites.— In the common diffuse form the peritoneal cavity gradually fills up with fluid which yields a dull note on percussion, the dulness varying in position with the attitude of the patient. In advanced cases the abdomen is prominent, the skin tense and shiny, with distended veins running in it. The large belly presents a striking contrast to the emaciated condition of other parts of the body. In male children, if the processus vaginalis is patent, it also becomes filled with fluid. The condition often yields to medical measures—the internal administration of iodoform and salol, of cod-liver oil and arsenic, and the local use of gentle massage in the shape of inunction with ichthyol, mercury, or cod-liver oil—in combination with open-air treat- ment. In the absence of improvement within from three to six months recourse should be had to laparotomy. A small incision is made below the umbilicus, and the fluid—a clear, straw-coloured serum which is usually sterile—is allowed to drain away. If the finger be inserted, the peritoneum is found to be studded with firm tuberculous nodules varying in size from a pin’s head to a hazel-nut, and the mesenteric glands may be felt to be enlarged. The wound is sutured except where the tube emerges, and the usual dressings are applied, and must be changed frequently within the first twenty-four hours until all the fluid has drained away ; the tube is then removed. The improvement which follows simple laparotomy is often remarkable, and is probably due to reactive changes in the peritoneum increasing its bactericidal properties. If the fluid re-accumulates, the laparotomy may require to be repeated. A more radical operative treatment is to open the abdomen by an incision long enough to permit of exploration, and, if feasible, to remove any primary tuberculous focus, such as the Fallopian tubes or caseous mesenteric glands. The encysted form of tubercxdons ascites is much rarer, and is usually met with in adults, especially of the female sex. The infected area is enclosed by adhesions which may become con- densed so as to form a wall of considerable thickness and strength. The clinical features may closely resemble those of an ovarian or other cystic tumour, for which the affection has been mistaken by experienced clinicians. This form seldom yields to medical treatment, and should therefore be subjected to operation. The incision is made over the cystic swelling, wherever it may be, and the fluid evacuated.