INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 40 cerebral symptoms present, it is very difficult to convince the patient of the necessity for undergoing treatment, and of the risk involved in his leaving his bed and resuming work. Fracture of the anterior fossa may result from a blow on the forehead, nose, or face; or from a punctured wound of the orbit, nasal cavity, or pharynx. Often the injury is at first considered trivial, and it may be only when septic complications develop, in the form of meningitis or cerebral abscess, that its true nature is recognised. This fossa may also be implicated in fractures of the vault, fissures extending from the vertex to the base. Clinical Features.—Unless the fracture is compound through opening into the nose or pharynx, there are few symptoms by which it may be recognised. It has been observed that the percussion note is sometimes altered when the skull is fractured, but this sign is not of much practical value. When compound, there may be bleeding from the pharynx or nose from tearing of the periosteum and mucous membrane related to the fracture. When the haemorrhage is profuse, it is probable that the meningeal vessels or even the longitudinal sinus have been torn. Cerebro-spinal fluid may escape along with the blood, but it is seldom possible to recognise it. If long continued, the patient may be conscious of a persistent salt taste in the mouth, due to the large proportion of sodium chloride which the fluid contains. In very severe injuries brain matter may escape through the nose or mouth. Fracture of the anterior fossa is often accompanied by effusion of blood into the orbit, which pushes forward the eyeball and infiltrates the conjunctiva (subconjunctival ecchymosis). This occurs especially when the orbital plate of the frontal bone is implicated. The blood which infiltrates the conjunctiva passes from behind forwards, appearing first at the outer angle of the eye and spreading like a fan towards the cornea. Later it spreads into the upper eyelid. When the orbital ridge is chipped off, without the cavity of the skull being opened into, the haemorrhage shows at once both under the conjunctiva and in the upper lid. If the frontal sinus is opened, air may infiltrate the scalp. The olfactory, optic, oculo-motor, pathetic, ophthalmic division of the trigeminal, and the abducens nerves are all liable to be implicated. Diagnosis.—It is scarcely necessary to state that bleeding from the nose or mouth may occur after a blow on the face without the occurrence of a fracture of the skull. It is only