281 THE DIAPHRAGM. end absolute rest, bodily and mental, must be ensured, and morphin may be freely given if necessary. Exploration of the wound by finger or probe must be avoided, lest clots be disturbed and the bleeding start afresh. Low diet is given and thirst is relieved by enemata. Within recent years numerous operations have been performed with the object of suturing wounds of the heart, with results which are distinctly encouraging. The heart is exposed by resecting the fourth, fifth and sixth costal cartil- ages, and the wound sutured with fine catgut, care being taken not to perforate the whole thickness of the wall, as haemorrhage is apt to take place along the tracks of the stitches. The pericardium is sutured after having been emptied of clots. The external wound is drained. Needles embedded in the wall of the heart may be extracted after having been localised by the X-rays. Pericardial Effusions.—When a serous effusion is exerting dangerous pressure on the heart and impeding its action, relief may be given by tapping the pericardium. A fine exploratory needle is introduced through the fifth interspace on the left side, about an inch from the sternum to avoid the pleura and internal mammary artery. When there is an excessive amount of fluid present it is not advisable to withdraw it all at one time. Purulent effusions are best treated by incision and drainage. The embarrassed condition of the heart usually forbids the use of a general anaesthetic. Before beginning the operation the heart may be relieved by tapping the pericardium. An incision is then made in the fourth or fifth left interspace, and, if necessary, a portion of one of the adjacent costal cartilages is resected. The pericardium is opened and a drainage tube inserted. Care must be taken to avoid injuring the left pleura, which overlaps the pericardium to its outer side. The internal mammary artery is also liable to be injured in separating the costal cartilage. The Diaphragm. Injuries.—Open wounds are usually the result of gun-shot injuries, stabs, or sabre cuts. As the lung does not extend as far down as the pleura, or the pleura as far as the diaphragm, it is possible for the diaphragm to be wounded alone, or along with the pleura, while the lung escapes. Subcutaneous rupture is rare. It usually occurs on the left side, and is produced by a sudden and great increase of the intra-abdominal pressure, as, for example, when a patient is crushed under a heavy weight, or is making violent muscular