205 EPISTAXIS. have a covering of thickened nasal secretion. They are rough on the surface, dark in colour, and usually lie in the inferior meatus. They give rise to the same symptoms as a foreign body, and are treated in the same way. The stone, which is usually single, may be so large and so hard that it is necessary to crush it before it can be removed. Ozcena, or foetid atrophic rhinitis, is characterised by atrophy of the nasal mucous membrane, and sometimes even of the turbinated bone, and is accompanied by a muco-purulent dis- charge and the formation of crusts having a characteristic offensive odour, which is not recognised by the patient. It is usually bilateral, and the nasal chambers, owing to the atrophy, are very roomy. It may be differentiated from a tertiary syphilitic con- dition by the absence of ulceration and necrosis of bone, by the odour, and by the fact that it is not influenced by potassium iodide and mercury. Various methods of treatment are in vogue, but thorough cleanliness is the most essential factor, and this is best effected by regular syringing. Plugging of the nostrils with cotton-wool for half an hour before washing out the nose greatly facilitates the detachment of the crusts. A pint of lukewarm solution, containing a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or of common salt, is then used with a Higginson’s syringe, the patient leaning over a basin and breathing in and out quickly through the open mouth. The patient should then forcibly blow down each nostril in turn, the other being occluded with the finger, so that the septic material may thus be blown out without risk of it entering the Eustachian tubes, as may happen when the handker- chief is used in the ordinary way. Antiseptic sprays and oint- ments may be applied to the mucous membrane after cleansing, i Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose may be due either to local or general causes. Among the former may be cited injuries such as result from the introduction of foreign bodies, blows on the face, and fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull, and the ulceration of syphilitic, tuberculous, or malignant disease. Amongst the general conditions in which nasal haemorrhage may occur are typhoid fever, anaemia and purpura, cardiac and renal disease, cirrhosis of the liver, and whooping cough. Nasal haemorrhage usually takes place from one or more dilated capillaries situated at the anterior, inferior part of the septum close to the vestibule, and in such cases the bleeding point is readily detected. Occasionally bleeding occurs from one of the anterior ethmoidal veins, and under these circum- stances the blood flows downwards between the middle turbinal