G12 THE URINARY BLADDER. functions, while sensation is retained, in which case the patient is aware of the necessity of emptying the organ but is unable to do so; or sensation alone may be abolished, so that the patient passes water unconsciously. In locomotor ataxia the functions of the bladder are frequently disturbed, sometimes before the characteristic features of the disease are developed. There may be spasm of the bladder with urgent desire to urinate; the flow may be interrupted and recommence after the patient thinks he has finished; there may be difficulty in commencing the act; or retention with distension and dribbling. There are sometimes neuralgic and colicky pains, or there may be anaesthesia, so that the patient is unaware of the state of his bladder, or unconscious of the urine being passed. In functional derangements of the nervous system, notably in hysteria, the bladder functions are frequently disturbed, but over-distension of the organ rarely terminates in dribbling. In certain individuals a peculiar mental attitude may develop regarding the act of micturition, a nervous incontinence, the patient making water with undue frequency from no apparent cause, perhaps thirty or forty times a day, while during sleep the bladder remains at rest. “ Stammering of the bladder ” is the term employed by Paget to describe a disorder of micturition of nervous origin in which clonic spasm of the urethral muscles plays a part. Lesions of the rectum and anus in the male, and of the generative organs in the female may be attended with disturb- ances of the functions of the bladder. Retention of urine, for example, frequently supervenes upon an operation for piles. A feeling of irritation in the bladder, and increased frequency of micturition, without the relief and satisfaction which normally follow the act, may be due to changes in the urine such as hyperacidity, or excess of phosphates or of oxalates. Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine: Enuresis.-—This is a functional disturbance which from its frequency calls for separate consideration. It is characterised by the involuntary discharge of urine during sleep, not a dribbling as might be inferred from the term incontinence, but a normal micturition with a full stream. It is a symptom rather than a separate entity, and may be due to a variety of causes. It is met with chiefly in boys between the ages of two and fourteen, and in the great majority of cases micturition is quite normal during the waking hours. In a few cases there is urgent and frequent micturition during the day, or micturition may take place involuntarily into