TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE CORD. 75 and attending to the bladder and bowels. When there is evidence of progressive pressure on the cord the blood should be removed by spinal puncture if possible, or by laminectomy. Intra-medullary Haemorrhage—Hcematomyelia. — Traumatic haemorrhage into the substance of the cord occurs almost invari- ably in the lower cervical region, and results from forcible stretching of the cord by acute flexion of the neck. The blood is usually effused into the anterior cornua of the grey matter and into the central canal. The severity of the clinical features depends upon the extent of the lesion. In contrast with what results in extra-medullary haemorrhage, paralytic phenomena predominate, and come on immediately after the injury. When the haemorrhage is only sufficient to cause pressure on the cord the paralysis is of a spastic form, and is usually most marked in the lower extremities because the conducting fibres are pressed upon. This is associated with evanescent anaesthesia for temperature and pain, while tactile sensibility is preserved. There is retention of urine and faeces, and, in young men, priapism. The pupils are contracted. The symptoms soon subside, sensation being restored before motion, and recovery is rapid. When the lesion is destructive there is persistent paralysis with atrophy, and anaesthesia in the area supplied from the segments of the cord directly implicated. As the lesion is usually in the upper part of the cord it is the arms that are most frequently affected. At the same time there may be transitory paralysis of the most distant pairts—e.g. the feet—from pressure on the con- ducting fibres. The treatment is the same as for extra-medullary haemorrhage, except that operative treatment is contra-indicated. Traumatic Lesions of the Cord. Gross lesions of the cord are usually the result of severe injuries of the spine, stabs, or gun-shot wounds. Total transverse lesions, that is, those in which the cord is completely crushed or torn across, are much more common than partial lesions. Total transverse Lesions.—Crushing or tearing of the whole thickness of the cord is an almost invariable accompani- ment of complete dislocations and of fracture-dislocations of the spine. Even when the displacement of the bones is only partial and temporary, the cord may be completely torn across. The clinical features vary with the level at which the cord is