THE STOMACH. 408 The symptoms in cancer of the cardiac end of the stomach may be relieved by gastrostomy. Other tumours of the stomach, for example, myomata, adenomata and sarcomata, are rare. They are seldom diagnosed before being exposed by operation, and are treated on the same lines as cancerous growths. Pyloric Obstruction of Infants.—This condition, which is due to an hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the pylorus, probably congenital in origin, is characterised by intractable vomiting, which is unattended by retching, and occurs within a few minutes of taking food. The vomited matter consists of unaltered food, mixed with mucus, but free of bile. When the condition has lasted for some time, peristaltic waves may be seen passing along the stomach from left to right, and a palpable tumour can sometimes be recognised in the region of the pylorus. Unless relieved by operation the condition usually proves fatal within a few months. The operative treatment consists in opening the stomach and dilating the pylorus with bougies or dressing forceps. In a few cases gastro-enterostomy has been successful. Gastroptosis, or prolapse of the stomach, is a condition in which the pyloric portion of the stomach, either alone or along with other abdominal viscera, sinks to a lower level than normal in the abdomen. If the patient swallow a large quantity of water while in the erect posture, the stomach stands out prominently, and the lesser curvature and pylorus may be found to have descended as low as the umbilicus, while the greater curvature may reach the level of the pubes or the left iliac fossa. The pancreas may sometimes be palpated as a transverse cord a little above the level of the umbilicus. The chief symptoms are epigastric pain—which is aggravated by standing and exercise, and is apparently due to stretching of the nerve plexuses of the stomach—and stagnation of the gastric contents. There is usually splashing on succussion after a prolonged fast, and other evidence of dilatation of the stomach. Relief may be afforded by the wearing of a supporting bandage, massage, attention to diet, and the occasional use of the stomach-tube. If these measures fail, the abdomen should be opened, and the gastro-hepatic omentum and other superior attachments of the stomach shortened by passing through them a series of silk sutures in such a way that, when they are tightened up, the stomach is raised to its normal level, and is prevented from becoming prolapsed wrhen the patient assumes the upright posture—gastropery. If the pylorus is stenosed or