416 THE INTESTINES. from the stagnating contents of the bowel above the seat of obstruction. In other words, when death results, it is from auto-intoxication, and if a sufficient quantity of poison has been absorbed, death takes place whether the obstruction is relieved or not. Hence the surgical treatment of intestinal obstruction should be undertaken before the patient has absorbed a fatal dose, and in addition to relieving the actual cause of the ob- struction, the bowel above the block should be emptied of its decomposing contents to prevent further absorption. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.— When the occlusion is sudden and complete, as when the intestine is snared bya band, the changes are very similar to those seen in strangulated hernia. The intestine below the obstruc- tion is pale, contracted and empty, while that above is usually distended with gas and fluid, and its mucous membrane is swollen and injected, and may show haemorrhages and super- ficial erosions. The surface epi- thelium is shed, and organisms are thus enabled to pass through the wall. The gaseous disten- sion of the intestine above the obstruction is the result not only of the accumulation of intestinal flatus, but also of the bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel, and this latter is chiefly dependent upon the impairment of vitality in the intestinal wall, the result of altered circulation and innervation. The gaseous distension may be so great that, when the abdomen is opened, the affected coils of bowel are projected from the wound, and when thus deprived of support the peritoneal coat may give way, and wide rents form on the surface opposite the mesenteric attachment. Sometimes the erosions on the mucous membrane become deepened into minute, sharply circumscribed, necrotic ulcers, which by extending through the whole thickness of the wall may eventually lead to perforation. Perforation is most likely to occur when the affected coils are being separated from one another by the exploring fingers, or are allowed to escape from the abdomen, and we have seen cases in which there were several Fig. 90.—Acute Obstruction of Small Intestine (Strangulated Obturator Hernia), showing distended bowel above and contracted bowel below the obstruction.