449 ABNORMAL ANUS. tuberculous. An anastomosis between the ileum and the ascend- ing or transverse colon will not only relieve the symptoms, but is usually followed by permanent cure. Actinomycosis.—This is a less common, but more aggressive and dangerous disease than tuberculosis. The infection takes place from the mucous membrane of the bowel, and spreads through the various layers to the peritoneum. There is a great deal of inflammatory infiltration of the coats of the bowel and adhesion to adjoining structures, giving rise to an ill-defined, diffuse and fixed swelling, most often situated in the right iliac fossa. Abscess formation and persistent sinuses commonly supervene, and the fungus may be found either in the pus or in the granulation tissue in the wall of the sinus. Treatment consists in opening up sinuses, removing the infected tissues with the spoon and scissors, and the internal administration of iodides. Abnormal Anus.—Intestinal Fistula—Faecal Fistula— Artificial Anus.—These terms are employed indiscriminately to describe an opening in the skin through which the intes- tinal contents escape externally. The term faecal fistula might with advantage be restricted to those openings which result from disease or injury, and the term artificial anus to those which are made by the surgeon for therapeutic purposes. Conditions of Occurrence.—Apart from the fistulae of con- genital origin already described as occurring at the umbilicus, the following are the chief modes of origin :—- (1) From any trauma which damages the wall of the gut, such, for example, as a penetrating wound, a subcutaneous con- tusion or rupture, or an operation in which the bowel has been bruised—for example, in reducing a large hernia—or opened in the course of an operation and unsuccessfully sutured. The fistula which results from an untreated strangulated hernia may be included under this head ; the fistula may form directly on the seat of injury or through the mediation of an abscess; in the latter case the external opening may be at a considerable distance from the opening in the bowel. (2) From inflammatory or ulcerative processes in the wall of the bowel or in the tissues immediately adjoining it, such, for example, as appendicitis with sloughing of the wall of the caecum, tuberculosis, actinomycosis, cancer, or foreign bodies impacted in the gut. When any segment of bowel is involved in the wall of an abscess, the suppurative process may extend into the lumen, as well as towards the skin surface, and thus cause a faecal fistula. VOL. II—29