702 ANAESTHETICS. Local Anesthesia. Local anesthesia may be employed in the great majority of minor operations, and for such operations as gastrostomy, colos- tomy, or herniotomy, where, on account of the weakness of the patient, it is deemed inadvisable to employ a general anesthetic. The methods of producing local anesthesia are : by the application of drugs which produce analgesia by acting on the nerve endings ; and by freezing the part. The Local Application of Drugs.—Cocain, eucain (alpha and beta), tropa-cocain, and acoin, have all been used for this purpose, and it has been found that the addition of adrenalin to any of these intensifies and prolongs the local action, and diminishes the risk of absorption of the drug. Cocain hydro- chlorate is that most commonly employed, but great care is always required in using it. Patients vary widely in their tolerance of the drug, and some regions of the body are much more absorptive than others and will only stand weak solutions. For instance, for the bladder the solution should not be stronger than 2 per cent.; for the urethra 4 per cent.; for the female genital organs or rectum 5 per cent. For the eye a solution of from 1 to 5 per cent, may be employed; for the nose and tonsils 2 to 20 per cent., and for the buccal mucous membrane 5 to 10 per cent. Not more than one-third of a grain of cocain should be injected into any region at one time, and not more than two-thirds of a grain applied to any mucous membrane. The methods of application commonly used are—(1) instilla- tion, for the eye or ear; (2) spraying, for example, into the throat or mouth, (3) painting or swabbing may also be used in these regions. (4) Endermic and hypodermic injection is probably the method most generally employed, and that from which the most satisfactory results are obtained. The endermic or infiltration method of Schleich consists in the injection of a very dilute solution of cocain, usually combined with morphin and adrenalin, into the true skin, but not beneath it. In this way, by repeatedly inserting and reinserting the needle, the drug is brought into direct contact with the nerve filaments over a large area of skin, and practically no constitu- tional effect is produced. A solution of medium strength, consisting of 1 grain of cocain hydrochlorate, 4 grain of morphin hydrochlorate, and 2 grains of sodium chloride, with two ounces of distilled water, is that found most generally useful.