MALFORMATIONS OF THE NECK. 213 Cervical Fascia.—This fascia completely envelops the neck, and from its deep aspect two strong processes—the prevertebral and pretracheal layers—pass transversely across the neck, dividing it into three main compartments. The posterior or vertebral compartment contains the muscles of the back of the neck, the vertebral column and its contents, and the prevertebral muscles. This compartment is limited above by the base of the skull, and below is continued into the posterior mediastinum of the thorax. The middle or visceral compartment contains the pharynx and oesophagus, the larynx and trachea with the thyroid gland, and the carotid sheath and its contents. These different structures derive their special fascial coverings from the processes which bound this compartment. The middle compartment extends to the base of the skull and passes into the anterior mediastinum of the thorax as far as the pericardium. The connective tissue space around the vessels is continued into the axilla. The anterior or muscular compart- ment contains the sterno-mastoid muscle and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. It extends upwards as far as the hyoid bone and base of the lower jaw, and downwards as far as the sternum and clavicle. The arrangement and limits of the different layers of the cervical fascia explain the course taken by inflammatory products and by new growths in the neck. Malformations of the Neck—Branchial Fistulas.—The parietes of the neck are formed by the coalescence of the second, third and fourth branchial arches of the foetus. Any inter- ference with the complete fusion of these arches and with the consequent obliteration of the intervening clefts results in the formation of a branchial fistula. The fistula may be lateral or median. In most cases it is complete, but it may be blind either externally or internally. The most common variety is the complete lateral fistula, the external opening of which is usually placed towards the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, about an inch above the sterno-clavicular joint, and the internal in the region of the posterior pillar of the fauces close to the tonsil. The track of the fistula is usually more or less tortuous, and its calibre varies greatly in different cases. It is lined by mucous membrane, the secretion of which is clear and viscous, and the only trouble the patient experiences is the escape of this fluid on to the surface. In rare cases particles of food pass along the fistula. Firm fibrous or cartilaginous nodules, the remains of the branchial arches, are sometimes found in the vicinity of a fistula in any part of its course. The treatment consists in excising the fistulous track in its whole length, but, owing to the long and tortuous course of the fistula, and its relations to important structures, the operation is always a tedious and difficult one, and may be attended with considerable risk. Less radical measures, such as scraping