COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 21 During the progress of the symptoms there is frequently evidence of direct pressure upon definite cortical centres or cranial nerves, giving rise to focal symptoms. Definite groups of muscles on the side opposite to the lesion may first show spasmodic jerkings or spasms (unilateral monospasm), and later the same groups become paralysed (monoplegia). The paralysis frequently affects the whole of one side of the body (hemi- plegia). The oculo- motor nerve is often paralysed at the same time. The pupils vary so widely in different cases that their condi- tion does not form a reliable diagnostic sign. Perhaps it is most common for the pupil on the same side as the lesion to be contracted at first and later to become fully dilated, while that on the opposite side remains moderately dilated. As a rule, they are irresponsive to light. On ophthalmoscopic examination, blurring of the disc is often to be made out. In cases which go on to a fatal termination the coma deepens, and the muscular and sensory paralyses become general and complete. The vital centres in the medulla gradually become involved, and death results from paralysis of the respiratory centre. The fatal issue is often hastened by the onset of hypostatic pneumonia. Not infrequently a modified type of Cheyne-Stokes respiration is observed for some time before death ensues. Pathology of Compression.—When any addition is made to the bulk of material inside the cranial cavity, room is gained in the first instance by the displacement into the vertebral canal of a certain amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid. The capacity of the spinal sheath, however, is limited, and as soon as the tension oversteps a certain point, the pressure comes to bear injuriously on the cerebral capillaries, diminishing the freedom of the circulation, and so interfering with the nutrition of the brain tissue. As the intra-cranial tension still further increases, the pressure gradually begins to affect the cerebral tissue itself, and so the extreme symptoms of compression are produced. The vagus and vaso-motor centres are irritated and this causes slow- ing of the pulse, contraction of the small arteries, and increase of the arterial tension. The parts of the brain directly pressed upon become anaemic, while the other parts become congested, and the nutrition of the whole brain is thus seriously interfered with. Different parts of the brain show varying powers of resistance to this circulatory disturbance. The cortex is the least resistant part, and next in order follow the corona radiata, the grey matter of the spinal