CYSTITIS. 591 cutting pains, tenesmus, and hsematuria soon after its introduction, but some bodies give rise to no symptoms until the occurrence of cystitis and the deposition of phosphates upon the object leads to the formation of a stone (Fig. 139). These secondary changes may occur within a few days, or may be delayed for several months. The diagnosis is often rendered difficult by misleading in- formation, or by wilful deception on the part of the patient. In the female the body may be recognised on vagino-abdominal examination, or by introducing the linger through the dilated urethra. In both sexes, however, chief reliance is to be placed on the cystoscope, which not only tells of the presence of the body, but also its nature, its position, and how best to remove it. Opaque bodies may.be detected by the X-rays. Hard bodies, or soft ones encrusted with phosphates, may be struck with the sound or grasped with the lithotrite. The treatment consists in removing the body, if its shape Fig. 139.—Deposition of Phosphates upon a portion of Catheter. (From Professor Ainiamlale's Collection.) and size permit, by way of the urethra. In the female this may be accomplished by means of dressing forceps introduced through the dilated urethra, or in the male by means of the lithotrite. If these methods are inapplicable or do not succeed, the bladder should be opened above the pubes. Bacterial Infection of the Bladder—Cystitis.—The bladder and the urine contained in it are normally sterile. While organisms readily gain access by various routes, they rarely succeed in infecting the bladder unless there is also present some factor which favours their lodgement. Such factors are to be regarded as predisposing causes of cystitis. These include all conditions which interfere with the functions of the organ or with the vitality of its tissues. Complete evacuation of the contents of the bladder at each act of micturi- tion is the greatest safeguard against infection, while retention of urine from any cause is an important factor in the production of cystitis. The stagnant urine constitutes a favourable medium for the growth of organisms, and ample opportunity is afforded for the bacterial products to act upon the mucous membrane.