435 STRICTURE. marked degree of hypertrophy, and exhibit during life an increase in their peristaltic movements; the bowel below is contracted and empty. The clinical features develop insidiously. There is colicky pain, aggravated by the ingestion of solid food, and attended with loud gurgling noises. There is vomiting, which is attended with little nausea, the patient bringing up large quantities of greenish-brown watery fluid at irregular intervals, it may be of two or three days. The motions are scanty, and vary in con- sistence ; diarrhoea is not uncommon. The patient loses flesh. There may be little distension of the abdomen, and the abdominal wall usually remains flaccid. The hypertrophied coils above the stricture may exhibit spontaneously, or when stimulated by handling, exaggerated peristaltic movements, and they frequently arrange themselves in a pattern suggestive of a ladder or of the pipes of an organ. Splashing sounds may be elicited, and the distended coils, if full of fluid fames, may yield a dull note on percussion. The progress of the malady is slow and intermittent, and the patient may be able to go about, and even continue to follow his occupation. In exceptional cases the first symptoms are those of acute obstruction brought on by blocking of the narrowed bowel by indigestible food or inspissated famal matter. Even in typical cases of chronic obstruction due to stricture of the lesser bowel, it is seldom possible to be certain as to the cause of the obstruction without performing an exploratory operation. A similar train of clinical features may be brought about by new growths, by matting, bending, or compression of the gut from adhesions or from shrinking of the mesentery. It is, fortunately, unnecessary to differentiate between these various conditions, as laparotomy is the first step in the treat- ment of all of them. Treatment.—The sooner the condition is subjected to operative interference the easier and more successful will this prove. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, unless the seat of the stricture is indicated by some definite localising factor, such as an antecedent hernia. There is rarely any difficulty in finding the affected loop of intestine, or in bringing it out at the wound, except when adhesions are present, in which case these must first be divided or separated. If there is a single annular stricture, the lumen of the bowel is most easily restored by making a longitudinal incision through the stricture on the convexity of the bowel, opposite the mesenteric attachment, and suturing the wound at right angles to its long axis—a procedure known as enteroplasty. The sutures may be inserted with