453 TUMOURS. affected segment of bowel and join the ends. Although the abnormal anus has been discharging fasces up till the perform- ance of the operation, it is usual to obtain primary union not only of the bowel, but also of the parietal wound. Fistulae between the Intestine and other Organs—Internal Fistulae.—These result from disease originating either in the bowel or in the organ with which it communicates. Fistulae between the small and large intestines only cause symptoms if the opening in the small bowel is high up and a long tract of the gut intervenes between the two openings, in which case the patient may emaciate, and bile and undigested food may appear in the stools. Fistulae between the stomach and intestine may be attended with eructation of intestinal gases or vomiting of intestinal contents and the appearance of undigested food in the stools. Fistulae between the biliary passages and the duodenum or colon result from gall-stone affections, and are seldom attended with any symptoms. Fistulae between the intestine and the genito-urinary organs are chiefly met with in the pelvis, and concern the rectum; the intestinal contents may escape by the urethra or vagina, and the chief danger to life consists in an ascending septic infection of the urinary organs. Operative measures for the closure of an internal fistula are only called for when it is a source of danger to life, and are only justifiable when it is possible to cure the disease to which the fistula owes its origin. Apart from fistulae in the pelvis, in which it may be possible to get access from the perineum, it is usually necessary to open the abdomen ; the organs connected by the fistula are separated from one another, and the opening in each closed by sutures. Tumours of the Intestine.—An adenoma may originate in Lieberkiihn’s follicles, and form a sessile tumour in the mucous membrane, or project from the surface as a polypus. A solitary tumour, unless when seated in the rectum, rarely gives rise to symptoms; it may, however, form the starting-point of an intus- susception. Multiple adenomata are sometimes met with in the form of disseminated polypi throughout the great part of the large intestine. This affection is met with chiefly in young adults, and is attended with diarrhoea, loss of blood, abdominal pain, and sometimes with symptoms of stenosis. There is' a tendency to cancerous transformation of one or other of the adenomatous tumours. The sufferings of the patient may be greatly relieved by anastomosing the lower ileum with the sigmoid flexure. When this is not practicable, an artificial anus