110 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. Any backward projection of the ribs on one side is rendered more obvious if the patient folds the arms across the chest and bends well forward, while the surgeon looks along the back from behind. Pott’s disease may be excluded by the absence of rigidity and pain on movement or jarring of the spine. Scoliosis is sometimes simulated by hysterical girls. Any mechanical cause of deviation of the spine, such, for example, as inequality in the length of the limbs or contraction of the chest after empyema, must be sought for. Prophylaxis.—In weakly girls approaching the period of puberty special care should be taken to avoid compression of the trunk by tight corsets ; and healthy out - door exercises calculated to strengthen the muscles of the back should be insisted upon. The patient must not be allowed to assume awkward attitudes while reading, writing, or playing the piano ; she must sit on a low chair with a sloping back so constructed as to give support to the whole length of the spine. Those who carry weights, for example nurse-maids, should use the arms alternately. Adenoids or other sources of respiratory obstruction must be removed, and if the patient is myopic she should be provided with suitable glasses. Gymnastic exercises and massage are of great value. Treatment.—The first indication in treating scoliosis is to improve the general health of the patient in every possible way. The treatment in adolescents depends largely on the extent of the deformity. In mild cases—that is, cases in which the curvature is obliterated when the patient is suspended-—the prophylactic measures above mentioned, including a systematic course of gymnastic exercises and massage, must be rigidly enforced. This treatment should not be commenced, however, until all pain and feeling of tiredness in the back have dis- appeared after a period of rest in bed. The exercises should be carried out twice or thrice daily, at first in a recumbent position, and later while standing erect. They are to be carried out slowly, the patient breathing naturally while making the movements. They should cease as soon as the patient begins to feel fatigued, and after each seance she should rest, lying on her back on a couch for an hour. As the muscles gain strength, the movements may be made against resistance, for example with a Whiteley’s exerciser. In more severe cases—where, for example, the curvature is diminished but not obliterated by suspending the patient—in addition to the exercises above referred to, the patient should