589 RUPTURE OF BLADDER. its movements. It is quite exceptional for its point to pass through the rent and tap the collection of urine outside the bladder; in the event of its doing so a large amount of urine slightly tinged with blood may escape. In the intra-peritoneal variety there are rarely any character- istic signs of the presence of the accumulation of urine in the abdominal cavity. Dulness when present is ill defined, but a fulness of the pouch of Douglas may be recognised on rectal examination. From the third day onwards there is general illness with vomiting, gradually merging into septic peritonitis, and death usually ensues on the fifth or sixth day. In the extra- peritoneal variety the urinary extravasation, through being confined within narrower limits, shows recognisable signs within from twelve to twenty hours of the accident. When it spreads upwards above the pubes there is a well-defined area of dulness, and there may be also a fulness in the hypogastric region, with a convex upper border directed towards the umbilicus. When it accumulates in the cellular tissue of the pelvis the resulting- swelling is recognised on bimanual examination. It is sometimes stated that the existence of a rent in the bladder may be demonstrated by injecting a measured quantity of fluid through the catheter into the bladder, and observing the amount which returns, but the procedure is deceptive, as all the fluid may return even although the bladder is ruptured. Treatment.—The indications are to get rid of the extravasated urine, and to close the rent in the bladder before septic changes have had time to occur. In the intra-peritoneal variety the abdomen is opened in the middle line below the navel, the peri- toneal cavity is irrigated with saline solution, the rupture in the bladder sutured, and a glass drain inserted into the pouch of Douglas, after which the abdominal wound is closed except where the tube emerges. If there are already signs of pelvic peritonitis, a drain should be passed from Douglas’s pouch into the rectum and brought out at the anus. In the extra-peritoneal variety the position of the incision is determined by the seat of extravasation. If this be in the hypo- gastric region the incision is made above the pubes as in suprapubic cystotomy ; the urine thus escapes, and the contaminated area is washed out with saline solution introduced through a catheter passed along the urethra into the bladder. The fluid used for irrigation should not be hotter than 100° F., otherwise the muscular coat of the bladder contracts, rendering the rupture inaccessible to suture. When the extravasation is low down, around the neck of the bladder and between the bladder and