566 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. solid urinary constituents held together by an organic basis of an albuminous nature, possibly derived from epithelium which has been shed as a result of catarrhal processes. A stone com- posed of uric acid or urates is yellowish brown in colour, of hard consistence, and has a smooth or morocco-leather-like surface; on section it is homogeneous or concentrically laminated. Such stones are frequently multiple, and may attain a large size. The oxalate of lime calculus is dark brown or black from admix- ture with blood pigment; it is very heavy and densely hard ; the surface is rough, tuberculated, or beset with sharp projections, and on section shows a wavy lamination. It is of very slow formation, is usually solitary, and although rarely larger than a hazel-nut, is the type of stone most likely to give rise to symptoms. The phosphatic stone is composed of the triple phosphates and carbonates of lime and magnesia • it is usually of a white or dirty grey colour, is light and porous, rough on the surface, friable, and it may attain a considerable size. Its formation is frequently, but not necessarily attended with alkaline decomposition of the urine. Other varieties of stone are rare, but mention may be made of the cystin calculus, which is white or yellowish, soft and friable, and on section presents a resemblance to wax. The chemical composition of any stone is rarely the same throughout; the varieties are named according to the preponderating constituent. There is no constant relation- ship between the reaction of the urine and the composition of the stone. The etiology of stone is unknown. The condition is more frequent in certain families, especially those tainted with a gouty inheritance, and it is much more common in some countries, par- ticularly Hungary, India, and China, than in others. In this country it is most prevalent in Norfolk. It is met with chiefly during the early years of childhood, and in patients after middle life. It is usually said to be rare in the female, but opera- tion statistics show that renal calculus occurs with almost equal frequency in the two sexes. Seat of Formation, Shape, and Size.—A stone is rarely found in the parenchyma of the kidney, the pelvis or one of the calyces being the favourite seat. A stone which is lodged in a calyx is usually spherical, while one lodged in the pelvis is often triangular, with the apex directed towards and into the ureter. In exceptional cases the stone forms a cast of the entire pelvis, and presents coral-like branches corresponding to the individual calyces (Fig. 131). Small stones may pass into the ureter, and lodge either near the kidney or near the vesical orifice. A