TUMOURS OF VERTEBRAE. 97 surface directly in the region of the joint. When the pus forms towards the front of the joint it may spread forward as an iliac abscess, or may gravitate downwards in the hollow of the sacrum and emerge on the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen. Sometimes it passes into the ischio- rectal fossa or into the perineum. The presence of an intra-pelvic abscess may some- times be recognised on rectal examination. Sacro-iliac disease has to be diagnosed from disease in the hip, spine disease, sciatica, and lumbago. The prognosis is on the whole unfavourable, particularly in cases complicated by extensive disease of the ilium with abscess formation and septic infection. Treatment.—If the patient is able to be out of bed, he should use crutches and wear a patten on the foot of the sound side. The application of a Thomas’s hip-splint on the affected side may be useful. In more advanced cases he is confined to bed, and absolute rest to the joint secured by means of extension applied to both legs, or by other suitable apparatus. In children a Phelp’s box is a convenient appliance. Counter-irritation by blisters or the actual cautery is sometimes recommended. In dealing with the abscesses which form it is often necessary to remove considerable portions of the ilium to obtain free access to the original seat of the disease. Syphilitic Disease of the Spine.—All the clinical features of Pott’s disease may be simulated by gummatous disease of the vertebrae. This is usually met with in adults who have suffered from acquired syphilis. It rarely occurs in the inherited form of the disease. It is most common in the upper cervical verte- brae, and begins on the anterior surface of the bodies. The onset is more sudden than that of tuberculous caries, and the progress more rapid. The bone is early and extensively destroyed, but abscess formation is rare. Severe nocturnal pains are complained of, and some degree of angular deformity may develop. In almost all cases other evidence of tertiary syphilis is present, and this, together with the history and the rapid improvement which follows anti-syphilitic treatment, renders the diagnosis easy. The local treatment is carried out on the same lines as for tuberculous disease. Tumours of the Vertebrae.—Sarcoma is the most important of the primary tumours met with in the spinal column. It gives rise to symptoms which are liable to be mistaken for those of Pott’s disease. The pain, however, is more intense, and the disease progresses more continuously, and is entirely uninfluenced by treatment. In the sacrum — the most common site—the VOL. II—7