EXCISION OF THE KECTUM. 533 to be more definitely ascertained than is possible without an anesthetic. If left untreated, symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction supervene, but the tumour seldom encroaches sufficiently on the lumen of the bowel to cause complete obstruction. If the narrowed lumen becomes occluded by a mass of faeces, however, the signs of complete obstruction ensue, but are never so acute and urgent as in cases of obstruction in the colon. Perforation of the bowel above the stricture occasionally occurs, and gives rise to septic peritonitis. The duration of the disease varies with the nature of the growth, the age of the patient, and other cir- cumstances, but it usually proves fatal in from six months to two years of its onset. Treatment.—For purposes of treatment cases of cancer of the rectum may be divided into those in which there is a reason- able prospect of being able to eradicate the disease, and those in which the surgeon cannot hope to do more than relieve the patient’s suffering by forming an artificial anus above the site of the tumour. The radical operation is indicated in all cases in which the tumour is confined to the bowel, or has formed but slight attach- ments to adjacent viscera, and in which there is no evidence of glandular invasion or of metastatic growths. It is no longer held that excision is contra-indicated if the tumour is beyond the reach of the finger, and invades the wall of the bowel above the point of reflection of the peritoneum. When excision is imprac- ticable, or when the patient is too weak to justify the risk attend- ing the operation, inguinal colostomy is indicated. A certain proportion of cases do not benefit from any form of operative treatment. Excision of the Rectum—Proctectomy.—The rectum may be excised from below by an incision in the perineum (Langenbeck’s operation) • from behind by removing the coccyx and a portion of the sacrum (Kraske’s operation and its modifications); or by a combined abdominal and perineal operation. Opinions differ as to the value of a preliminary colostomy per- formed a week or ten days before the major operation. By some this measure is recommended on the grounds that it enables the bowels to be thoroughly emptied before the rectum is excised, and that it prevents the passage of faeces over the raw surface left by the operation. It is also urged that the opening into the peritoneal cavity will enable the surgeon to determine the upper limits and attachments of the growth and the condition of the pelvic and lumbar glands. Most surgeons only perform ipre-