DISEASES OF ABDOMINAL WALL. 315 cellulitis. A good example of the latter is afforded by the cellulitis which spreads to the abdominal wall in cases of extra- vasation of urine. The extra-peritoneal cellular tissue may likewise be the seat of abscess or of cellulitis. The situation and direction of spread of the suppurative process vary with the origin of the infection. That, for example, which originates in the urinary bladder may ascend from behind the pubes towards the umbilicus, forming a spherical swelling resembling the distended bladder ; while that which originates from the uterus may spread outwards in the broad ligaments, and come to the surface in one or other iliac region. Among other forms of extra-peritoneal cellulitis and suppuration may be instanced that which arises in the loin from lesions of the kidney—perinephric abscess; those forming in the right iliac fossa from appendicitis and malignant disease of the caecum; those which arise in connection with the elimination of biliary calculi and of foreign bodies in the stomach or intestine; and those resulting from osteomyelitis of the pubes or ilium. The clinical features vary with the origin and seat of the cellulitis. The condition is seldom diagnosed until the in- flammatory products form a definite swelling, and the presence of pus is uncertain until the abscess approaches the surface. Fortunately the pus tends to make its way towards the skin rather than into the peritoneal cavity. The pus in abscesses which form in the vicinity of the bowel is frequently foetid from the presence of the colon bacillus. The treatment consists in making an incision through the overlying skin and fascia, and then passing a director through the muscles and transversalis fascia until the purulent collection is reached. Additional openings may be required to establish free drainage. Treatment must also be directed to the lesion from which the cellulitis took origin. Actinomycosis is met with in the abdominal wall chiefly as a result of extension from the intestine. It appears as an ill-defined, hard swelling which gradually softens and ruptures on the skin surface, discharging pus which contains the char- acteristic fungus. The affection is a very chronic one, and usually results in one or more sinuses which may lead down to the bowel. Tumours of the Abdominal Wall.—The lipoma and fibroma are the most important of these. The lipoma may originate in the subcutaneous or in the extra-peritoneal areolar tissue. One variety of extra-peritoneal lipoma is represented by the small fatty hernia which occurs in the middle line in the epigastric