278 THE CHEST. lung and the heart, and partly by falling in of the chest wall. The persistence of the discharge in most cases is due to the fact that these processes have not been sufficient to obliterate the cavity, and a space with rigid walls is left between the lung and the parietes. The pleura, which lines this space, is greatly thickened and is covered with granulation tissue. The pus escapes through one or more sinuses, either continuously or at intervals as it accumulates in the lower part of the cavity. In some cases the discharge is kept up by a drainage-tube or other foreign body having been inadvertently left in the pleural space. While some patients are able to continue at work for many years in spite of a constant discharge, the majority succumb sooner or later to septic poisoning, hectic fever or waxy disease. To obviate these risks it is advisable to remedy the condition by removing a sufficient amount of the chest wall to enable the parietes to fall in and lead to the obliteration of the cavity— thoracoplasty. In the majority of cases this may be done by the Estlander-Schede operation, which consists in excising sub- periosteally portions of several ribs, the number and length of the portions resected depending on the size and shape of the cavity to be obliterated. One or more incisions are made over the ribs to be dealt with, or a large horseshoe-shaped musculo- cutaneous Hap, extending from the fourth to the ninth or tenth rib, is turned up, and the exposed ribs resected. The periosteum, the intercostal muscles, and the thickened parietal pleura are then removed, and the cavity packed with gauze before the hap is replaced. When the lung is firmly bound down in the vertebral groove, the procedure known as “ decortication of the lung ” may be carried out as an addition to thoracoplasty. This consists in peeling oh' the thickened pleura from the surface of the lung (Delorme). Pulmonary Cavities.—Under this heading we may for convenience include pulmonary abscess, gangrene of the lung, bronchiectasis, phthisical cavities, and hydatid cysts. The diagnosis is always a matter of difficulty, and in many cases it is all but impossible to determine the exact position and extent of a cavity. The physical signs are often misleading, and Tuffier has pointed out that, if we trust to stethoscopic evidence, we are apt to place lesions above the level of the root of the lung too high, and lesions below that level too low. The nature of the expectoration should be noted, but it is to be borne in mind that the quantity expectorated bears no constant relation to the size of the cavity. An exploratory puncture