210 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. for five or six days. If nasal obstruction has been the out- standing symptom, respiratory exercises through the nose should be carried out for some considerable time • on the other hand, if Eustachian obstruction and deafness have been the main features of the case, a course of Politzer inflation should be con- ducted after the wound has healed. Tumours of the Naso pharynx.—Tumours are occasionally met with growing from the muco-periosteum of the basi-sphenoid and basi-occipital, and projecting from the vault of the naso- pharynx. They may primarily be of the nature of fibromata, but sooner or later they assume the characters of fibro-sarcomata and exhibit malignant tendencies. They usually occur between the ages of fifteen and twenty. At first the tumour is firm, rounded, and of slow growth, but later it becomes softer, more vascular, and grows more rapidly, spreading forwards towards the nasal cavity and downwards towards the pharynx. Clinical Features.—In its growth the tumour blocks the nostrils, and so interferes with nasal respiration and causes the patient to snore loudly, especially during sleep. It may also bulge the soft palate towards the mouth and interfere with deglutition. In some cases the face becomes flattened and expanded and the eyes are pushed outwards, giving rise to a deformity known as frog face. Deafness may result from ob- struction of the Eustachian tube. The patient suffers from intense frontal headache, and there is a persistent and offensive mucous discharge from the nose. Profuse recurrent bleeding from the nose is a common symptom, and the patient becomes profoundly anaemic. The tumour can usually be seen on ex- amination with the nasal speculum or by posterior rhinoscopy, and its size and limits may be recognised by digital examination. Unless removed by operation these tumours prove fatal from haemorrhage, interference with respiration, or by perforating the base of the skull and giving rise to intra-eranial complications. Treatment.—These growths are seldom recognised before they have attained considerable dimensions, and owing to the fact that they are permeated by numerous large, tliin-walled venous sinuses, their removal is attended with formidable haemorrhage. Attempts to remove them by the galvanic snare are seldom satisfactory, because the base of the tumour is left behind and recurrence is liable to take place. Electrolysis has been carried out in some cases with encouraging results. To obtain free access it is usually necessary to perform, some osteoplastic operation on the superior maxilla. Annandale has reached these growths from the mouth by splitting the hard and