251 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-PASSAGES. tube need not be worn for more than twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Laryngotomy consists in opening the larynx below the glottis by dividing the crico-thyroid membrane. It is only performed as an emergency operation in cases of sudden asphyxia, induced, for example, by the impaction of a foreign body, or by spasm or (edema of the glottis. A vertical mesial incision, about an inch and a half long, is made so as to expose the membrane, the edges of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are separated, and a transverse incision carried through the membrane close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to avoid injuring the crico-thyroid arteries, which cross the membrane at a higher level. The opening is held open by the handle of the knife or by forceps until a short oval tube is inserted. In children the available space is so small that it may lie necessary to divide the cricoid cartilage and one or two rings of the trachea to. enable the tube to be introduced. When there is no urgency, tracheotomy is to be preferred to laryngotomy, as the latter operation is sometimes followed by interference with phonation. Tracheotomy is the operation of choice for the relief of laryngeal obstruction. It is frequently employed also as a preliminary measure in severe operations on the mouth and larynx, to enable steps to be taken to prevent blood and dis- charges entering the air-passages, and to facilitate the adminis- tration of the anaesthetic. The trachea may be opened either above or below the thyroid isthmus, which usually covers the third and fourth tracheal rings. The high operation is to be pre- ferred as a rule as being more easily performed, and attended with less risk from haemorrhage and from septic complications in the connective tissue planes of the neck. The low opera- tion is indicated, however, in cases of malignant disease of the larynx, and for the removal of foreign bodies from the bronchi. The essential steps of the two operations are the same. In children it is usually advisable to administer a general anaesthetic, but this must be done with great care, as the dys- pnoea may suddenly become extreme and necessitate the opera- tion being rapidly completed. In adults the operation can usually be performed under local anaesthesia. A roller pillow is placed behind the neck to put the parts on the stretch, and an incision is carried from the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage downwards for about two inches. The sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids are separated, any blood-vessels met with are secured with forceps before being divided, and the