50 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. opposite direction—leg, arm, face—the pressure is on the nerve fibres passing through the internal capsule (Fig, 9). Motor aphasia may result from pressure on the left inferior frontal convolution, while auditory aphasia may result from abscess in the posterior part of the first superior temporal convolution. Ptosis, external squint, with a fixed and dilated pupil, may indicate pressure on the third nerve of the same side. Abscess in the parietal lobe is usually of traumatic origin, and gives rise to paralysis of the opposite side of the body. Abscess in the occipital lobe is almost always pyaemic in origin, and produces interference with the visual functions. An abscess in the frontal lobe, even when of large size, may give rise to no localising symptoms. If on the left side, Broca’s convolution may be implicated, and motor aphasia result. Cerebellar Abscess. — Next to the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, the cerebellum is the most common seat of abscess. This almost always results from middle ear disease. When small, it may give rise to few symptoms, and the patient may be able to go about. As it increases in size, however, the patient becomes exceedingly ill. The head and neck are retracted, the pulse is slow and weak, and the temperature subnormal. The respiration is greatly embarrassed, and may occasionally be interrupted for a few minutes, while the heart continues to beat vigorously. This arrest of respiration is especially liable to occur during anaesthesia. There is frequent yawning, and the speech is slow, syllabic, and jerky. There may be optic neuritis and blindness. There is sometimes unilateral or even bilateral paralysis of the limbs from pressure on the upper part of the cord. Disturbances of equilibrium and co-ordination, with vertigo, are common. Prognosis.—Abscess of the brain or cerebellum is always a dangerous condition, but is amenable to surgical treatment if this is carried out early and thoroughly. Spontaneous evacua- tion of a temporo-sphenoidal abscess may take place through the middle ear. Less frequently a frontal abscess bursts through the cribriform plate. These abscesses, however, are much more likely to burst into the sub-dural space or ventricles and set up general meningitis, which proves fatal. Treatment.—The abscess having been localised, the skull is trephined in the usual way, and the pus evacuated. Macewen recommends that for temporo-sphenoidal abscess the centre-pin of the trephine should be placed at a point in line with the posterior osseous wall of the external auditory meatus, three- quarters of an inch above the posterior root of the zygoma.