60 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. occur, and the structural changes induced in the cerebral tissue, and the contraction of the cicatrix which results, may per- manently interfere with the functions of the brain, or may induce Jacksonian epilepsy. Tuberculous tumours also may become arrested, and may cease for a time to cause symptoms, but permanent cure is extremely rare. We have known a sarcoma to recur five years after removal. Death sometimes occurs suddenly from haemorrhage, from acute oedema, or from implication of vital centres. Treatment.—In all cases the administration of iodides in full doses is indicated, not only with a view to eliminating the possibility of the tumour being syphilitic, but because other forms of tumour, especially gliomata, frequently benefit tempor- arily by this treatment. The question of removal by operation arises in cases where there is reason to believe that the tumour is situated near the surface of the brain, that it is of moderate size, and that it may be firm and encapsulated. Unfortunately it is only in a very small proportion (5 to 10 per cent.) of cases that these conditions are present and can be recognised by clinical examination. The skull is opened by reflecting a large osteo-eutaneous flap. If the tumour is in the cortex, it is shelled out. If it is sub-cortical, the cortex is incised and the tumour removed with the aid of a dissector or spoon. In a certain proportion of cases, where there is no hope of removing the tumour, it is justifiable and even advisable to operate for the relief of tension. By making a large opening in the skull, and incising the dura, so as to allow the brain to bulge under the scalp, the agonising headache, the vomiting, and the optic neuritis and blindness may in many cases be materially alleviated. In some cases puncture of the ventricles may further relieve the tension. Lumbar puncture frequently repeated has also been practised for the relief of tension in otherwise inoperable cases. When surgical treatment is contra-indicated, all that can be done is to palliate the symptoms by bromides, opium, phenacetin, caffein, and other drugs. Surgical Affections of the Cranial Nerves. Irritation or paralysis of one or more of the cranial nerves may result from lesions implicating their centres or trunks. Paralysis is more common than irritation. The cerebral lesions with which nerve symptoms are most frequently associated are