THE URETHRA. 042 original gonorrhoea. The symptoms are greatly aggravated by exposure to cold or by the taking of alcohol, inducing congestion of the mucous membrane and spasm, and this combination of conditions is liable to bring about retention of urine. In neglected cases the symptoms progress, the urine is voided with greater and greater difficulty, the bladder is incompletely emptied and micturition has to be repeated at frequent intervals, and any slight indiscretion results in retention, which, if un- relieved, ends in dribbling from overflow. Septic infection is rarely absent in strictures of long standing, and while com- paratively unobtrusive so long as it is confined to the mucous membrane of the urethra and bladder, may at any time en- danger life by spreading to the peri-uretliral tissues and causing extravasation, or by ascending to the kidneys. Such lighting up of a long standing, almost dormant, infection is especially observed to follow instrumental or operative interference. Diagnosis and Methods of Examination.—The clinical history is usually suggestive of stricture, but must be confirmed by examination. It is instructive to observe the patient during the act of micturition and to examine the urine. The induration of scar tissue in the spongy urethra may be recognised on palpation. Before an instrument is passed, the patient should be in a warm bed, and the usual precautions taken to avoid septic infection. The stricture is first located by passing a No. 10 or 12 metal bougie until it is arrested. Smaller instruments are then passed, one after the other, until finally one becomes engaged in the stricture and passes through it, the point being made to enter the bladder. A fine flexible instrument provided with an acorn tip may afford additional information as to the severity and extent of the stricture, and whether there is more than one ; the acorn tip passes through the stricture with difficulty, and hitches against it on being withdrawn. By means of a urethronreter, such as that of Otis, the calibre of the stricture may be accurately determined. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stricture.—The patient should abstain from alcohol and avoid exposure to cold, and the urine should be rendered bland by diluent drinks and occasional courses of urotropin. Intermittent dilatation, the object of which is gradually to overstretch the scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, is carried out by the passage of bougies at intervals of two or three days. In tight strictures, filiform, horsehair, black olivary, or fine metal bougies are employed, and great care and patience must be exercised. If the urethra is sensitive and congested a solution of