VARICOCELE. G73 cord is occasionally the seat of a diffuse oedema, which leads to the formation of a pyriform swelling in the line of the inguinal canal and upper part of the scrotum. To this rare condition the term diffuse or infiltrated hydrocele of the cord is applied. Its chief clinical importance lies in the fact that it is liable to be mistaken for an omental hernia. Tumours of the Cord.—Several varieties of tumour have been met with in the cord. The only one which need be men- tioned here is the pedunculated lij)oma, which arises usually in the extra-peritoneal fat, and after being protruded through the internal abdominal ring, grows down along the cord, and may ultimately reach the scrotum. It forms a soft, almost fluctuating swelling in the line of the cord, irreducible and with little or no impulse on coughing. It closely simulates an omental hernia, and is usually only recognised during an operation for the radical cure of a supposed hernia. On dissection it is found to lie inside the coverings of the cord, but outside the peritoneum. These tumours are very liable to drag down with them a pouch of peritoneum, and so to form a sac into which a hernia may subse- quently pass. Hence it is that they are often associated with hernia. Varicocele.—The term varicocele is applied to a varicose condition of the veins of the spermatic cord. The varix may affect all the veins in the cord, but is usually confined to the vessels of the pampiniform plexus. These veins originate in the tunica vasculosa of the testis, and after perforating the tunica albuginea they accompany the spermatic artery, lying in the anterior part of the cord, in front of the vas deferens and its companion artery and veins. In the upper part of the scrotum the smaller vessels of the plexus combine to form two or three larger trunks which traverse the inguinal canal, and eventually unite to form the spermatic vein. On the right side the sjaer- matic vein opens into the vena cava obliquely, and on the left enters the left renal vein at a right angle. In their course the spermatic veins communicate with branches belonging to the portal system. They are therefore liable to become engorged when, from any cause, the circulation in the portal system is obstructed. Causes.—This particular form of varix is, so far as is known, due to the same causes as other forms, the most important of which is perhaps a congenital deficiency in the valves and in the strength of the walls of the veins. The length and tortuosity of the veins, the slight support they receive as they hang in the lax and pendulous scrotum, and the feeble vis a tergo of the blood- VOL. II—43