THE CHEST. 276 septa can be broken down, and masses of lymph removed from the pleura. The operation should, wherever possible, be per- formed under local anaesthesia. Care should be taken that the free movement of the healthy side of the chest is in no way impeded, and that the patient’s head is kept low to avoid the risk of syncope. The patient should lie flat on his back, the affected side of the chest projecting beyond the edge of the table. The presence and situation of the pus having been determined by an exploratory puncture, an incision is made down upon the rib to be resected. In cases of generalised empyema this will be the seventh, eighth or ninth rib in the mid- or posterior axillary line. The incision, which is about two and a half inches long, is made in the long axis of the rib, and is carried down to the bone, dividing the periosteum freely. The skin should be pulled up slightly over the rib before the incision is made, to ensure that, when the chest falls in after withdrawal of the pus, the opening in the soft tissues will be opposite the opening through the rib. The periosteum is then raised from the bone all round with a curved separator, care being taken of the intercostal vessels which run in the groove on the under edge of the rib. With a suitable pair of rib forceps a portion of rib about an inch and a half long is resected. The pleura is opened by pushing a director through it, and the finger introduced through the opening thus made. Before the pus escapes, the cavity should be explored with the finger, to determine its extent and the condition of the lung. The pus is allowed to flow out slowly, in order that the heart and lungs may gradually accommodate themselves to the altered conditions of pressure within the thorax. It is not advisable to scrape the walls of the cavity, and irrigation is to be avoided unless the pus is very foetid. When irrigation is employed, care must be taken that the outflow is as free as the inflow, in order that there may be no accumulation of fluid, which by its weight may impede the action of the heart and lungs. The fluid should be at the body temperature. Neglect of these precautions has led to serious and, in some cases, to fatal results. Two large-sized rubber tubes are introduced side by side so that they project about a quarter of an inch within the parietal pleura. The advantage of two tubes is that the risk of blockage is diminished, and that, at the subsequent dressings, one tube can be removed at a time, the other keeping the wound open and facilitating reintroduction. The outer end of each tube should be transfixed with a large safety-pin to prevent its being sucked