308 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. part behind the stomach. The communication between the two sacs is known as the foramen of Winslow, and lies just below and behind the portal fissure of the liver. Its margins are normally in contact with each other, and the foramen may easily become obliterated, and accumulations of fluid may thus be confined to the lesser sac, as, for example, in perforation of the posterior wall of the stomach, or as a result of injuries involving the pancreas. In passing from one organ to another, and to the abdominal wall, the peritoneum forms numerous folds and fossae, the number and extent of which interfere with the inspection of the whole of the peritoneal cavity through a limited incision in the abdominal wall, and render the cleansing of the cavity, when infected, a procedure of the greatest difficulty. The largest of the peritoneal folds—the great omentum—forms an apron-like covering for the greater part of the intestines, and, by contracting adhesions with adjacent surfaces of peritoneum, it fre- quently serves to close perforations of the bowel and to limit infective processes in the peritoneal cavity. The mesentery, which conveys all the blood-vessels and nerves for the small intestine, is attached at its root along a line commencing above at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and inclining obliquely downwards to the right iliac fossa. It may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into a right and a left compartment. Interference with its blood-vessels endangers the vitality of the intestine. The transverse meso-colon is attached to the posterior abdominal wall at the level of the second lumbar vertebra along the lower border of the pancreas ; along with the great omentum it may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into an upper and a lower compartment. The compartment above the transverse meso-colon is roofed in by the diaphragm, and contains the stomach and part of the duodenum, the liver with the gall-bladder and bile - ducts, and the pancreas. If pus forms in relation to any of these organs, it may extend upwards beneath the vault of the diaphragm and constitute a sub- phrenic abscess. This compartment may be shut off from the lower abdomen and pelvis by adhesions between the great omentum and the anterior abdominal wall. Purulent accumulations in this area may be drained through the anterior abdominal wall, through the loin below the last rib, or by the transpleural route. The space to the right of the mesentery and below the transverse meso-colon contains the caecum, appendix and ascending colon, and is related to the right kidney and ureter and to the small intestine. If suppuration occur in relation to any of these organs, especially the appendix, the pus may accumulate in the right lumbar or iliac region, and may extend either upwards along the ascending colon to the subphrenic area, or downwards into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. The compartment to the left of the mesentery is a very extensive one, being related to the greater part of the small intestine as well as to the transverse, descending and pelvic colon, and when suppuration occurs within its area the pus is liable to gravitate downwards into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. Purulent collections in the iliac and lumbar regions are to be drained through an incision in the loin or anterior wall ; those in the pelvis through an opening above the pubes, or by means of a drainage tube brought out through the vagina or rectum. Properties of the Peritoneum. —In addition to allowing of free movement of the viscera, and supporting them in their proper relations, the peritoneum is capable of absorbing fluids, and it reacts very rapidly