148 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. the jaw, the eyeball is usually protruded by the invasion of the orbit from behind, and in time a swelling appears in the temporal region. If the antrum is invaded, the tumour may spread in the various directions already indicated. Sometimes a tumour which appears to have its seat in the upper jaw is really a downward prolongation of a growth originating in the base of the skull. In all cases the tumour tends to infiltrate the surrounding tissues indiscriminately. There is severe pain referred to the distribution of the second division of the fifth nerve. Fro. 38.—Sarcoma of tire Upper Jaw In cases where the growth haS involving sphenoid, ethmoid and right trespassed the limits of the superior maxilla, and projecting into superior maxillary bone the (AnatomicayriiMemn^University of for 0perati0n are those in which hard, well defined, limited to the upper jaw, and with the skin still movable over it (Jacobson). The operation consists in reflecting the cheek outward by an incision carried through the middle of the upper lip, round the ala, along the side of the nose to the inner angle of the eye, and along the lower border of the orbit on to the malar bone. The cartilage of the nose is separated from the nasal process of the maxilla, and the periosteum of the floor of the orbit freed. The jaw is then divided at its junction with the malar bone, at its articulation with the nasal process of the frontal, and in the middle line between its palatal processes. The soft palate is conserved by an incision being carried between it and the hard Hamiorrhage is liable to occur when exposed portions of the tumour ulcerate—for example, in the nasal fossre. Sarcomata are to be distinguished from dentigerous cysts which also may distend the bone, bulging the hard palate and projecting on the face (Fig. 39). Treatment. — The only method of treatment is com- plete removal, and in most cases this involves excision of the whole of the upper jaw. In general terms it may be said that the cases favourable the tumour is of slow growth,