358 HERNIA. lumpy, and is dull on percussion ; there is no gurgle on reduc- tion, and the last part is the most difficult to reduce. The symptoms of reducible hernia vary greatly in different individuals. Many are unaware that they are the subjects of hernia, and go about for years without inconvenience or anxiety. Others, and especially strong, young adult males, suffer a great deal from the first, and may, even before there is any swelling visible externally, complain of severe colicky pain in the region of the hernia, and reflected along the nerves connected with it, and of inability to lift weights, or to take part in any form of exercise calling for muscular exertion. Prognosis. — Unless the hernia is controlled by a truss, or is cured by operation, it tends to become larger and more unmanageable, and at any time may become stran- gulated. An individual with a rupture which is not con- trolled by a truss is not ac- cepted for life insurance. Treatment.—The alternatives before the patient are either to have the hernia controlled by a truss, or to have it cured by operation. In addition to the pallia- tive treatment by means of a truss, the patient should endeavour to improve the tone and vigour of the abdominal muscles by systematic exercises, such as “pulling FIU- 68. Irreducible in ” the abdominal wall, or stooping Inguinal Hernia. forward with the knees stiff. Any cause of straining, such as the lifting of heavy weights or constipation, should be avoided. Irreducible Hernia.—An irreducible hernia is one in which the contents of the sac cannot be completely returned within the abdomen. The commonest cause of irreducibility is the presence of adhesions between the contents and the sac, especially adhesions implicating the omentum. Less frequently it is due to increase in bulk of the prolapsed omentum from continued deposition of fat in it, or to the mere bulk of the hernial contents, so that there is no longer accommodation for them within the abdomen. The symptoms and signs are similar to those of a reducible