146 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. more frequently than in any other part of the body. The lower jaw is attacked oftener than the upper. The actinomyces probably gains access to the bone through a carious tooth or through the gum. At the outset the patient complains of pain and tenderness referred to one or more carious teeth. Within a few weeks a swelling forms—in the lower jaw near the angle as a rule, and iii the upper jaw in some part of the cheek. The tumour, which varies in consistence, is firmly fixed to the jaw. The skin over it becomes inflamed, suppuration occurs, and sinuses form and give exit to a sero-purulent fluid in which the char- acteristic yellow “sulphur grains” may be detected. The surrounding soft tissues become infiltrated, and the part becomes riddled with sinuses, which lead down to bare bone. The disease usually runs a chronic course, lasting for one or two years, and is not attended with fever, unless pyogenic infection be superadded. In the absence of the characteristic yellow granules actinomycosis may readily be mistaken for tuberculous or syphilitic disease of the jaw, or for sarcoma. The treatment consists in removing the diseased tissue by the knife or sharp spoon, and in the administration of large doses of potassium iodide. Tumours of the Alveolar Process. — The tumours which grow from the alveolar processes of the jaws are essentially of the nature of fibro-sarcomata. In some the fibrous element predominates, and they closely resemble fibromata, but the frequency with which they recur after removal, unless the segment of bone from which they spring is also excised, indicates their malignant tendency. In some cases the tumour is of the myeloid type—myeloma—in others it contains masses of bone in its substance—osteo-sarcoma. As these tumours originate in the periosteum, the periodontal membrane or the bone of the alveolus, and not in the gum, the term “epulis,” which was previously applied to them, is inaccurate. They are most frequently met with in females, between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five, and are more common in the lower than in the upper jaw. The tumour may begin between two teeth or in the socket of a tooth which has been lost. It grows slowly, either towards the cavity of the mouth, or more frequently towards' the lip or cheek, where it appears as a smooth, firm, rounded swelling which is adherent to the jaw, and may be sessile or pedunculated. It causes little pain, but is liable to interfere with mastication. As it increases in size