SUPPURATION IN ACCESSORY SINUSES. 207 the nose with a fine trocar and cannula, and the washing out of pus after first carefully cleansing the nasal cavity, will establish the diagnosis. The treatment consists in opening the antrum through the canine fossa, and, after curetting its walls, packing the cavity with iodoform worsted. To avoid the risk of reinfecting the cavity from the mouth, an opening may be made into the nose, by removing the anterior portion of the nasal wall of the antrum and part of the inferior turbinated bone, after which the incision in the buccal mucous membrane is closed with sutures. Suppuration in the frontal sinus may be diagnosed after first excluding the antrum, and finding that pus continues to How into the nose ; the posture test is probably negative, and there may be tenderness upon pressure over the sinus. After removal of the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone it may be possible to catheterise the sinus and blow out or wash out pus from its interior. In some cases the diagnosis can only be made by opening the cavity through an incision in the line of the eyebrow. The anterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected in con- junction with the frontal, and sometimes with the maxillary sinus, and a diagnosis may only be arrived at by eliminating these. The presence of polypi and granulations, with pus oozing out from between them, and increasing after withdrawal of the probe, and the detection of carious bone are significant of the condition. Suppuration in the sphenoidal smus is characterised in many cases by the presence of eye symptoms. Pus in the olfactory sulcus, on the upper surface of the middle turbinal posteriorly, and on the vault of the naso-pharynx is suggestive of sphenoidal suppuration. If removal of the middle turbinated bone permits of inspection of the ostium sphenoidale by anterior rhinoscopy, pus may be seen escaping from the orifice. Exploratory catheterisation or puncture of the anterior wall of the sinus and irrigation may be used as additional aids in diagnosis. The posterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected along with the sphenoidal sinus. The nasal appearances just noted are present, and if the sphenoidal sinus can be washed out or occluded and pus rapidly reappears, its origin from these cells is probable. Anomalies of Smell and Taste.—Anosmia or loss of smell is not infrequently a symptom of nasal affections. Any lesion which prevents the passage of the odoriferous particles to the olfactory region of the nose interferes with the sense of smell.