466 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. derived from the duodenum. While normal bile is sterile, in the majority of cases of cholelithiasis micro-organisms are found either in the fluid contents of the gall-bladder or in the stones themselves. The colon bacillus is that most constantly present, but other organisms, such as typhoid bacilli, staphylococci, or streptococci, are occasionally met with. While bacterial infection is the essential cause, there are certain accessory conditions which predispose to the formation of gall-stones, for example, anything causing catarrh of the stomach and duodenum, such as indiscretions in diet or in the use of alcohol. Stagnation of the bile has long been regarded as a predisposing factor. Gall- stones are certainly much more frequent in women after middle life who are of sedentary habits, and whose clothing tends to interfere with the respiratory movements, and thus allows of stagnation of the bile in the biliary passages, especially in the gall-bladder. Clinical Aspects.-—Gall-stones frequently exist without giving rise to any inconvenience, and when they do cause symptoms these vary greatly in different cases, depending to a great extent on whether the stones are in the gall-bladder or in the common bile-duct. The symptoms are rarely due merely to the presence of gall-stones, but are largely attributable to superadded inflammatory changes occurring in the bile passages, and especially in the gall-bladder. In the Gall-Bladder and Cystic Duct.—The gall-bladder is by far the commonest situation of gall-stones. So long as the bile is able to flow without hindrance in and out of the cystic duct, the stones do not cause any symptoms, and are said to be latent. When, however, a stone becomes displaced into the cystic duct, it excites contractions of the bladder, and these are signalised clinically by the occurrence of biliary colic. The stone may remain impacted in the cystic duct and block the passage, or it may fall back into the gall-bladder ; in the latter case the bile is again able to flow, and the symptoms subside or dis- appear. A typical attack of biliary or gall-stone colic consists of severe pain beginning under the right costal margin, and radiating towards the epigastrium and umbilicus, and round the right side towards the shoulder. Its duration varies considerably. It is sometimes attended with collapse, and nearly always by retching and vomiting, thus simulating many other critical abdominal conditions. There is impaired respiratory movement and tenderness of the abdominal wall in the region of the gall- bladder. The seizure is not infrequently followed by slight and evanescent jaundice, which is due to an associated catarrh of the