INJURIES OF THE THORACIC VISCERA. 267 the sternum and driven inwards, causing pain, shortness of breath, and sometimes vomiting. It may be necessary to cut down and remove it. Injuries of the Thoracic Viscera. Any of the injuries of the chest wall above described may be complicated by lesions of the pleura, the lungs, the heart, or the diaphragm, and the coexistence of such internal injuries adds materially to the gravity of the condition. These internal complications may be associated with the escape into the pleural cavity of blood—hcemothorax, or of air—pneumothorax ; with spitting of blood—haemoptysis, or with the escape of air into the subcutaneous cellular tissue—surgical emphysema. Hcemothorax may be due to the rupture of an intercostal or internal mammary artery, a laceration of the pleura, lung, or diaphragm, or a wound of the heart or great blood-vessels. The clinical features are those of internal haemorrhage, with evidence of fluid in the pleural cavity—in the shape of dulness, loss of the breath sounds and vocal fremitus—and of pressure on the lung. The patient becomes extremely restless, constantly changing his position; the breathing is rapid and laboured, and the pulse small, quick and irregular. If there is a pene- trating wound, blood may escape each time the patient coughs or moves in bed. The effused blood does not coagulate, and in many cases is rapidly reabsorbed. It sometimes happens that several days after an injury a considerable quantity of serous fluid is poured out into the pleural cavity, and this must not be mistaken for a haemothorax. Pneumothorax, or the escape of air into the pleural cavity, may be a result of laceration of the lung by a fragment of a broken rib, or by a foreign body, such as a knife-blade or a bullet. It has also resulted from puncture of the lung by an exploring needle. There is at first severe pain in the chest, and the patient becomes restless, short of breath, and cyanosed. The lung is more or less collapsed, and the prominent physical signs are bulging of the intercostal spaces, hyper-resonance on percussion, loss of vocal fremitus, and faintness or absence of the breath sounds and of vocal resonance. The heart, the liver, or the spleen may be displaced. As the air which enters the pleura is free of bacteria, septic complications seldom ensue. When the wound in the lung