SUBPHRENIC ABSCESS. 335 The Mesenteric Glands. These glands lie between the layers of the mesentery, and receive lacteals from the small intestine and the colon as far as the sigmoid flexure. Along with the retro-peritoneal glands which lie beside the aorta they transmit lymph and chyle to the thoracic duct. Infective agents may pass from the mucous membrane of the intestine to the glands by the lymph-stream. Tuberculous disease is extremely common. A diffuse caseating form, associated with tuberculosis of the peritoneum and intestine, is almost exclusively met with in children, and is known as tabes mesenterica. It is not amenable to surgical interference. Localised disease in the mesenteric glands may give rise to various complications which call for operative treatment. That most frequently met with is the condition in which the tuber- culous disease, having erupted through the capsule of the gland, causes a localised adhesive peritonitis, followed by the formation of a band which may bring about intestinal obstruction. Obstruction may also be brought about by tuberculous infiltra- tion and contraction of the mesentery, or by adhesion and kinking of the intestine over a tuberculous gland. A rarer complication is that in which the gland, having become the seat of acute inflammatory softening, ruptures and discharges its purulent contents into the peritoneal cavity, setting up acute peritonitis. A group of tuberculous glands, usually those of the lower ileum, may become inflamed and give rise to a palpable mass in the right iliac fossa, which, when associated with severe pain and high fever, may lead to the condition being mistaken for a lesion of the appendix. Enucleation of the inflamed glands should be performed if practicable. Suppuration in the mesenteric glands is one of the recognised complications of typhoid fever; wdien met with in the form of a circumscribed abscess this should be opened and drained. In lymphadenoma, lymphatic leucocythtemia, and in various forms of malignant disease, the mesenteric and retro-peritoneal glands are often extensively involved, and may form multiple tumour-like swellings within the abdomen. Subphrenic Abscess. The term subphrenic abscess is applied to a collection of pus beneath the vault of the diaphragm. This potential space is divided into two compartments by the suspensory ligament of the liver, and the abscess may be located on the right or on the