THE SCALP. 4 account of the free arterial anastomosis in the deeper layers of the integument, large flaps of scalp may be replaced, even if badly bruised and torn. It is a safe rule never to cut away scalp tissue, however badly it may be lacerated, or however narrow may be the pedicle which unites it to the head. Gunshot wounds of the scalp are usually associated with damage to the skull and brain. A spent shot, however, may pierce the scalp, and then, glancing off the bone, may lodge in the soft parts. Complete avulsion of the scalp is sometimes met with in women as a result of the hair being caught in revolving machinery. The portion removed, as a rule, consists of integu- ment and aponeurosis with portions of muscle attached. In a few cases the pericranium has also been torn away. So long as any attachment to the intact scalp remains, the parts should be replaced, and, if asepsis be maintained, a satisfactory result may be expected. When the scalp is entirely separated, primary skin-grafting by Thiersch’s method should be had recourse to. Treatment of recent Scalp Wounds.—The primary object is to ensure asepsis. The hair should be shaved round the wound, which is then thoroughly purified. Gross dirt ground into the edges of lacerated wounds is best removed by paring with scissors. Undermined flaps must be further opened up and drained—by counter-openings if necessary. Foreign bodies should be carefully sought for when there is reason to suspect their presence. Haemorrhage is controlled by ligature, suture, or pressure. The wound is stitched with lrorse-hair or sterilised silk, and, except in very small and superficial wounds, it is best to insert a drainage tube. An antiseptic dressing is then applied and securely fixed by a light but firm bandage. The wound should be dressed every second or third day—the drainage-tubes being removed at the second dressing, and the stitches in from five to eight days. Complications of Scalp Wounds.—The most common com- plications are those due to infection by pyogenic bacteria, which not only aggravate the local condition, but are apt to lead to spreading cellulitis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, or to in- flammation of the intra-cranial venous sinuses. These dangerous sequelae are liable to follow infection of any scalp wound, but more especially such as implicate the sub-aponeurotic area, or the pericranium. In the integument a small localised abscess, attended with pain and oedema of surrounding parts, may form. Pus forming under the aponeurosis is liable to spread widely, pointing above the eyebrows, in the occipital region, or in the