76 THE SPINE AND CORD. injured, and the diagnosis as to the nature and site of the lesion is to be made by a careful analysis of the symptoms. Move- ment of the patient to admit of a direct examination of the local injury to the spine is attended with considerable risk, and should as far as possible be avoided. Immediate Symptoms.—At whatever level the cord is damaged, there is immediate and complete paralysis of motion and sensa- tion (paraplegia) below the seat of injury. The paralysed limbs are flaccid. On careful examination a narrow zone of hyper- esthesia may be mapped out above the anesthetic area, and the patient may complain of radiating pains in the line of the nerves derived from the segments of the cord directly implicated. In complete transverse lesions the paralytic symptoms are sym- metrical. Any marked difference on the two sides indicates an incomplete lesion. Retention of urine, and retention or incontinence of faeces are constant symptoms. In young men priapism is common—the corpora cavernosa are filled with blood without actual erection. There is evidence of vaso-motor paralysis in the form of dilata- tion of the subcutaneous vessels, and local elevation of tempera- ture in the paralysed parts. The tendon reflexes are abolished. Later Symptoms.—These are the result of descending degenera- tion taking place in the antero-lateral columns of the cord. There are often violent and painful jerkings of the muscles of the limbs, and the muscles become rigid and the limbs flexed. After a time.the reaction of degeneration is exhibited by the paralysed muscles. Unless regularly emptied by the catheter the bladder be- comes distended, and there is dribbling of urine—the overflow from the full bladder. The constant use of the catheter involves considerable risk of infection of the bladder unless the most rigid antiseptic precautions are adopted. There is always con- siderable risk of hypostatic pneumonia. Trophic sores are very liable to occur on parts subjected to pressure, such as the sacrum, the scapulas, the heels and the elbows. Injuries of the Cord at different Levels.—Cervical Region.— Complete lesions of the first four cervical segments—that is above the level of the disc between the third and fourth cervical verte- brae—are always rapidly, if not instantaneously, fatal, the nucleus of the phrenic nerve being in the fourth cervical segment. In lesions between the fifth cervical and first dorsal segments inclusive, all four limbs are paralysed. Sensation is lost below the second intercostal space. The parts above this level retain sensation as they are supplied by the supra-clavicular nerves