FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 85 Total dislocation is exceptional. It is cliieiiy met with in the lower cervical region. Both articular processes are displaced and the intervertebral disc is separated. Clinical Features.—The outstanding symptoms of total lesions are referable to the damage inflicted on the cord. The diagnosis should always be made by a considera- tion of the mechanism of the injury and the condition of the nerve func- tions below the lesion. On no account should the patient be moved about to enable the back to be examined, as this is attended with considerable risk of increasing the displacement and causing further crushing of the cord. If the fingers be gently passed under the patient’s back as he lies recumbent, it is usually found that there is some backward projection of the spinous processes, the most prominent process being that of the vertebra which is broken. The spinous process immedi- ately above it is depressed as the upper segment has slipped forward. Pain, tenderness, swelling and dis- coloration may be present over the injured vertebrae. There is complete loss of motion and sensation below the seat of the lesion. The symptoms of total transverse lesions of the cord at different levels have already been described. Treatment.—An attempt may be made to reduce the displacement under anaesthesia. Gentle traction in the long axis of the spine is made by assistants, while the surgeon attempts (^‘atomiMnaiweum^UmvBrsity to mould the bones into position. No special manipulations are necessary as the ligaments are all ex- tensively lacerated, and the bones are, as a rule, readily replaced. A roller-pillow is placed under the seat of the fracture to allow the weight of the body above and below to exert gentle traction, and so to relieve the cord of pressure. Operative treatment is almost never of any avail, as the cord is not only pressed upon, but in most cases is crushed, or even completely torn across. Fig. 14.—Fracture Dislocation of Ninth Dorsal Vertebra, showing downward and for- ward displacement of upper segment, and compression of cord by upper edge of lower segment.