63 FACIAL PARALYSIS. paratively seldom torn in basal fractures, but is prone to be pressed upon by tumours, gummata, or aneurysms in the region of the base of the skull. When it is paralysed, internal strabismus results. (VII.) Facial Nerve.—Paralysis of this nerve, more or less complete, may result from lesions in its cortical centre, in the region of the internal capsule, in its course through the temporal bone, or in its course outside the skull. Lesions of the nerve trunk, between its point of emergence from the brain and the stylo-mastoid foramen, are most frequently the result either of fractures implicating the middle fossa of the skull or of chronic suppuration of the middle ear. In fractures passing across the petrous temporal, the nerve may be torn across at the time of the injury, or it may become pressed upon by callus later. Considering the frequency of these fractures this nerve is comparatively seldom damaged. Suppurative disease of the middle ear is a much more common cause of facial paralysis. The nerve, as it traverses the aque- ductus Fallopii, may be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions or granulations, or it may be destroyed by the suppurative process. It is particularly liable to be affected in young children, on account of the very thin osseous wall of the aqueduct. It may also be involved in tuberculous and in malignant disease of the middle ear. Not infrequently it has been injured in the course of operations on the mastoid and middle ear. In complete unilateral facial paralysis (Bell’s paralysis) the affected side of the face is expressionless and “ mask-like.” The cheek is flattened and smooth, all its folds and wrinkles being obliterated. When the patient speaks or smiles, the face is drawn to the sound side. The eye on the affected side cannot be closed, and on making the attempt the eyeball rolls upwards and outwards. The patient cannot wink, and the conjunctiva therefore becomes dry, and is irritated by exposure to cold and dust. The tears run over the cheek. There is inability to whistle or to puff out the cheeks, and food collects between.the cheek and the gums from paralysis of the buccinator muscle. The orbicularis oris being paralysed also, the patient is unable to show his upper teeth, and the labial consonants are pronounced indistinctly. The sense of taste is often impaired. Bilateral paralysis is liable to be overlooked owing to the symmetrical appearance of the face. After it leaves the. skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve may be injured in operations on the parotid gland, in resection of the lower jaw, and in the removal of cervical