THE URETHRA. 634 a less extent in the epithelial cells and in the serum. They stain readily with aniline dyes and are decolorised by Gram’s method. In a recent gonorrhoea they are found in pure culture, but in course of time other organisms make their appearance and increase in number as the gonococci become fewer. Gonococci, while almost always pyogenic in the urethra, do not necessarily lead to the formation of pus when transplanted to other tissues such as the synovial membrane of joints or the peritoneum. Methods of Infection.—Infection practically always occurs during the sexual act, but it may result from contact with gonorrhoeal pus on the seat of a lavatory, on underclothing, bed linen, towels, or sponges. The occurrence of gonorrhoea after connection with a woman who is apparently healthy, may be due to the lighting up afresh of a gonorrhoeal infection which has long lain latent in the recesses of the male urethra. On the other hand gonococci may for long lie latent in the folds of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri, and yet be capable of infecting the male. A latent gonorrhoea in the male may also be lighted up by alcoholic indulgence, or by the use of instruments, especially when the urethra is the seat of stricture. Pathological Anatomy. — The cocci penetrate between the epithelial cells lining the urethra, and are taken up by leucocytes in the interior of which they readily multiply. The tissue changes consist in an acute catarrhal inflammation with shedding of epithelial cells, and infiltration of the subepithelial layers with serum and leucocytes, and are most marked in the glandular follicles opening into the urethra. The inflammatory changes may extend to all the coats of the urethra and involve the peri- urethral cellular tissue. The infection may spread to the prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, bladder, and kidney, and may be transferred to distant parts of the body, especially the joints, tendon sheaths, and endocardium. When suppuration occurs in the lymphatic glands of the groin it is probably due to the addition of other pus organisms. Clinical Features.—The incubation period varies from three to five days, and rarely exceeds a week. There is heat and itching about the orifice of the urethra, and smarting or scalding on passing urine, and from the swollen lips of the meatus there escapes a discharge which is at first mucous, but rapidly becomes purulent. As the inflammation travels back towards the bulb all the symptoms become more marked; there is severe pain on micturition due to distension of the urethra; the discharge is more abundant, and consists of thick, greenish pus which stains the linen. The night’s rest may be disturbed by painful