646 THE URETHRA. great urgency, in which case the bladder should be aspirated above the pubes, it is best to temporise by using morphin and belladonna suppositories, and by placing the patient in a very hot bath. It is even better to repeat the aspiration than to pass instruments in the congested state of the urethra. Conditions may arise, however, in which it is imperative to get an instru- ment into the bladder; fine tapering metal bougies are passed through the stricture, if necessary under anaesthesia, until it is possible to introduce a No. 5 or 6 catheter, which is then tied in till the crisis is over. Perineal section—in this connection often called Cock’s operation—is the alternative. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the left forefinger introduced into the rectum with its palmar surface upwards and its tip impinging against the apex of the prostate. A double-edged knife is then pushed into the middle line of the perineum about half an inch in front of the anus, towards the point of the finger in the rectum, the long axis of the knife being kept horizontal until the membranous urethra is opened. The knife having been withdrawn, a straight probe-pointed staff is passed into the bladder. A No. 14 rubber catheter is then passed along the staff, fixed in position, and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a week or ten days the catheter is withdrawn, and the stricture dilated in the ordinary way. Peri-urethral Cellulitis and Extravasation of Urine.—The pathology of this complication has already been described. The clinical features are those of a grave infective lesion : there is high temperature with repeated rigors, and the perineum, scrotum, and penis become greatly swollen, brawny, and dis- coloured. In the worst cases, the cellulitis rapidly assumes the characters of a moist gangrene, and the patient dies of acute septic infection. In less severe cases, there is diffuse suppuration in the perineum and scrotum, extending on to the anterior abdominal wall. When incisions are made there exudes a quantity of foul pus mixed with decomposing urine, and, if the patient survive, extensive sloughs of the cellular tissue come away, leaving suppurating tracks through which the whole or the greater part of the urine escapes. Free incisions must be promptly made throughout the whole of the infected area, and the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line of the perineum to allow of the free escape of mine. Drainage-tubes are inserted in all directions, and are washed through with peroxide of hydrogen at frequent intervals. The treatment of the stricture itself may be deferred.