THE SPINE AND CORD. 80 as permanent organic changes in the cord may take place and prevent complete recovery. Septic infection from bed-sores or from the urinary tract is the most common cause of death in cases which terminate fatally. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for total lesions. Laminectomy, however, is indicated when there is reason to believe that the cause of pressure is capable of being removed. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. For purposes of clinical study it is convenient to distinguish between partial and complete lesions of the spinal column. This distinction is important because in partial lesions the continuity of the column is not entirely lost, and the cord may sustain very little damage, or may entirely escape. In complete lesions, on the other hand, the column is broken and the cord is always severely damaged. Partial lesions include twists or sprains, isolated dislocations of articular processes, isolated fractures of the arches and spinous processes, and isolated fractures of the vertebral bodies. The most important complete lesions are total dislocations and fracture-dislocations. Twists and dislocations are most common in the cervical region, that is, in the part of the spine where the forward range of movement—flexion—is greatest. Fractures are most common in the lumbar region, where flexion is most restricted. Fracture- dislocations occur where the range of flexion is intermediate, that is, in the dorsal region. In all lesions of the spine accompanied by displacement the upper segment is displaced forwards. Twists or sprains are produced by movements which suddenly put the ligamentous and muscular structures of the spine on the stretch; in other words, by lesser degrees of the same forms of violence as produce dislocations. When the interspinous and muscular attachments alone are torn, the effects are confined to the region injured, but when the ligamenta subfiava are involved blood may be extravasated and infiltrate the space between the dura and the bone, and give rise to symptoms of compression of the cord. The nerve-roots emerging in relation to the affected vertebrae may be stretched or lacerated, and as a result radiating pains may be felt in the area of their distribution.