THE PROSTATE. 616 If suppuration ensue the pain becomes throbbing in character, and the difficulty of micturition may terminate in retention ; the prostate is greatly swollen, boggy or fluctuating. The abscess usually ruptures into the urethra, and for some time the first portion of urine contains pus. In the case of a peri-prostatic abscess the constitutional symptoms are more severe, the outlines of the prostate are obscured, and the fluctuation more superficial; the abscess may rupture on the perineum, into the rectum, or it may open both into the urethra and rectum, and so cause a recto-urethral fistula. A chronic form of prostatic abscess is met with in patients who have suffered for a long period from urinary troubles; it aggravates the already existing difficulty of micturition, and is apt to be mistaken for the ordinary form of enlarged prostate. Treatment.—The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated, the bowels are freely opened, and the diet is restricted to slops. Hot fomentations or leeches are applied to the peri- neum, and the rectum may be irrigated with hot water. Local treatment of the urethritis is discontinued. In the event of retention, hot baths, morphin suppositories, or even aspiration of the bladder above the pubes, should be employed, but if these measures fail a soft rubber catheter of small calibre must be passed. A prostatic abscess is opened in the middle line of the perineum, the depth of the incision being controlled by the left forefinger in the rectum, and the cavity is lightly packed with iodoform worsted around a drainage-tube. Less acute and chronic forms of prostatitis, or so-called ureih.ro- prostatitis, are met with chiefly in cases of long-standing gonor- rhoeal urethritis, although they may occur apart from this. There are catarrhal changes in the glandular follicles, resulting in the discharge into the urethra of a glairy fluid which may be clear, or turbid from admixture with pus corpuscles. This discharge appears at the meatus, especially on straining at defecation, or on pressing on the prostate from the rectum. The affection— sometimes spoken of as prostatorrhoea—is often associated with sexual hypochondriasis and depression, especially in neurotic individuals who have had recourse to quack literature and advice. The treatment is directed to the improvement of the general health by open-air exercise and tonics, and in persistent cases stretching the urethra by a full-sized bougie, or the instillation of a solution of nitrate of silver into the prostatic urethra, may be tried. Benefit has followed massage of the prostate by the rectum. Tuberculous Disease.—This is a fairly common disease in