THE URETHRA. 630 distended. The perineum is the seat of a tender swelling due to extravasated blood. The patient has sometimes passed water before being seen, without untoward result; or he may have attempted to do so, the attempt being attended with intense burning pain in the perineum, and increase of the swelling due to extravasation of urine. In cases of fracture of the pelvis in which the posterior urethra is torn, there is considerable shock, but bleeding from the meatus may be entirely absent, and swelling in the perineum little marked. The patient is unable to pass water and the bladder becomes distended. Extravasation of Urine.—In the common site of rupture— in front of, or through the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment—the urine infiltrates the cellular tissue of the anterior part of the perineum, the scrotum, penis, groins, and anterior abdominal wall. It is prevented from passing backwards by the attachment of the perineal fascia to the base of the triangular ligament, and from passing down the thigh by the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdominal wall to the fascia lata along a line a little below Poupart’s ligament. In ruptures involving the posterior urethra, the urine fills up the compartment between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and then extends forwards or backwards according to which of these layers has been torn along with the urethra. If the posterior layer be torn the urine accumulates in the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, and extends upwards in front of this region into the space of Retzius and anterior abdominal wall between the fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum. In cases which are left to nature the extravasated urine becomes the seat of septic infection, the clinical features slowly merge into those of a spreading cellulitis, resulting in suppura- tion, sinuses, and urinary fistulse. Diagnosis and Treatment.—A soft rubber catheter (No. 9 or 10, English) is sterilised and passed along the urethra. If it enters the bladder and draws off clear urine it should be tied in and left in position for a week or ten days. More commonly it is arrested at the site of rupture, in which case the patient should be anaesthetised to eliminate the con- traction of the urethral muscles, and another attempt made. In the event of failure, the catheter should be made rigid by means of a stylet or fine bougie, and the point of the instrument kept in contact with the roof, while its movements are controlled by the left forefinger in the rectum.