574 THE KIDNEY AND URETER, its outer and middle coats are thickened, its mucous membrane infiltrated with tubercle, and its lumen filled with caseous debris and pus. The fibrous capsule of the kidney and the perinephric fat participate in the chronic inflammatory process, and become thickened and indurated, so that the kidney becomes fixed in its bed and adherent to surrounding parts—notably the peritoneum. We have observed such dense adhesions to the spleen, stomach, and colon, that the removal of the organ by operation was im- possible. A large perinephric abscess may form as a result of the rupture of a cortical abscess through the capsule. The pus both within the kidney and outside of it usually contains not only tubercle bacilli, but also colon bacilli, staphy- lococci and streptococci. The pres- ence of stone in the pelvis is exceptional, although we have our- selves observed it in two cases, in both of which the resemblance to calculous pyonephrosis was so great that the tuberculous nature of the lesion was only cleared up by the microscope. The passage of tuber- culous material down the ureter results in infection of the mucous membrane of the bladder, at first round the ureteral orifice on the affected side, later over the greater part of the floor. It is a fact of great clinical im- portance, that primary tuberculous infection of the kidney through the blood-stream is nearly always unilateral. The opposite kidney becomes enlarged and hypertrophied. Ascending infection of the kidney from tuberculous disease of the lower urinary and generative organs is quite exceptional. Tuberculous disease of the Fallopian tube in the female, and of the epididymis and prostate in the male, not unfrequentlv occurs along with renal tuberculosis, but it is probably the result of an independent infection through the blood-stream. Clinical features are absent in the early stages of renal tuber- culosis. The first symptoms—frequent desire to urinate, pain at the end of the act, and turbidity of the urine—frequently suggest an affection of the bladder. Sometimes there are attacks like Fig. 133. — Advanced Tuber- culous Kidney showing mul- tiple abscess cavities iu paren- chyma. Removed by lumbar nephrectomy.