27 MIDDLE MENINGEAL HAEMORRHAGE. A few hours after the accident the patient experiences severe pain in the head, and he usually vomits repeatedly. For a time he is restless and noisy, but gradually becomes drowsy, and the stupor increases more or less rapidly until coma supervenes. The pulse usually becomes slow and full. The respiration is rapid (30 to 50) and becomes greatly embarrassed and stertorous. The temperature progressively rises, and before death may reach 106° F., or even higher. Monoplegia, usually beginning in the face or arm, gradually comes on, and is followed by hemiplegia, from pressure on the motor areas usually ensues in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours unless the pressure within the skull is relieved by operation. When the haemorrhage takes place from the anterior branch, the clot may spread towards the base (Fig. 5), and may press upon the cavernous sinus, causing congestion and protrusion of the eye, with paralysis of the third nerve and wide dilatation of the pupil. In most cases of middle men- ingeal haemorrhage there is no gross injury to the brain. It is merely compressed and emptied of blood. On the brain being- exposed, it is found battened, or may even be deeply indented by the blood-clot (Fig. 6). On the clot being removed, the brain soon regains its normal contour, and its pulsation returns. If the fracture is compound, the blood can escape, and there- fore the pressure symptoms are less evident or are entirely absent. It is a fact of some importance in medico-legal cases that haemorrhage from the middle meningeal may not take place till two or three weeks after the injury. The prognosis is grave in all cases, especially when operation is delayed beyond twelve or eighteen hours. Even after re- moval of the clot, death may ensue from laceration of the brain or haemorrhage at the base. Treatment.—Immediate operation is imperatively called for. underlying the clot. Death Fig. 5.—Extra-dural Clot resulting from haemorrhage from the an- terior branch of Middle Meningeal Artery. Clot extends to base of skull in anterior and middle fossae.