VOL. II—8 113. CHAPTER IX. THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. Face—Congenital malformations : Hare-lip and deft palate; Macro- stoma; Microstoma; Facial cleft; Mandibular deft—Injuries of soft parts: Wounds; Burns—Tumours: Epithelioma. Orbit—In- juries: Contusion; Wounds; Fractures — Injuries of eyeball— Orbital cellulitis—Tumours. Lips—Cracks ; Chronic induration ; Tuberculous ulcers ; Syphilitic lesions—Tumours: Ncevi ; Lymphan- gioma ; Cysts; Epithelioma. THE FACE. Congenital Malformations.—The description of the various congenital malformations of the face will be simplified by a brief consid.eration of the normal development of the parts. Development.—About the middle of the first month of intra-uterine life the prosencephalon bends acutely forward over the end of the noto- chord and sends out from its base a series of processes which ultimately blend to form the face (Fig. 28). These processes surround a stellate depression, the primitive buccal cavity or stomodaeum, from which the mouth and nasal cavities are developed later. The buccal cavity is bounded above by the fronto - nasal process, which is divided by a fissure — the nasal cleft—into a mesial nasal or globular process and a lateral nasal process. From the mesial nasal and globular processes the septum of the nose, the inner segment of the premaxillary bone, and the middle portion of the upper lip are developed ; while the lateral nasal process forms the roof of the nasal cavity, the ala nasi and adjacent portion of the cheek, and the outer segment of the premaxillary bone. Each segment of the premaxilla or os incisivum carries one of the incisor teeth, and each of the mesial segments may contain in addition an accessory tooth. The nasal cleft ultimately becomes the anterior nares. The primitive buccal cavity is bounded below by the mandibular arch, which contains Meckel’s cartilage, and from which are developed the lower jaw, the lower lip, and the floor of the mouth. From the outer and back part of the mandibular arch springs the maxillary process, which grows upwards and blends with the lateral nasal process across ? the naso-orbital cleft — the deeper portion of