550 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. is usually easy, but difficulty may arise in relation to a distended gall-bladder, a partially separated “constriction lobe” of the liver, an ovarian cyst or uterine fibroid with a long pedicle, a tumour of the colon or of the pylorus. Chief stress is to be laid on the fact that it is impossible to cause any other tumour than a floating kidney to disappear by pushing it into the renal pouch. The existence of abnormal renal mobility having been demon- strated, the patient should be further examined with the object of determining whether the symptoms complained of are due to such mobility or to some other cause, for example, organic disease of the kidney, uterine displacement, disease of the uterine appendages, dilatation of the stomach, or enteroptosis. In cases attended with symptoms of neurasthenia and of gastro- intestinal disturbance, it is often difficult to estimate how far the renal mobility is responsible for these. Treatment.—In the great majority of cases the condition can be relieved or cured by non-operative measures. Any affection of the stomach, bowels, or generative organs must first be remedied. The patient should be advised to avoid standing as much as possible, and to lie up at the menstrual periods. Where the nervous symptoms are prominent, the patient should be reassured, and such measures as massage, baths, and electricity should be employed to tone up the nervous system. It may even be necessary to have recourse to the Weir-Mitchell treatment. As regards the use of a belt or bandage, it is to be borne in mind that the object of such an appliance is to retain the viscera which tend to prolapse by raising equably the intra-abdominal pressure, and replacing the muscles which have lost their tone. The best appliance is a corset made of elastic webbing and strengthened at the sides and in front by light steel springs (Israel). The support to the kidney may be further increased by an air cushion fastened within the corset; the cushion is triangular in shape, its base corresponding to the nipple line, and the two sides to the costal margin and iliac crest respectively. The corset should be applied when the patient is in the dorsal position with the pelvis elevated. When such a corset is not obtainable, the abdomen may be supported by a large pad of wool and a wide domette roller bandage. Cases of renal mobility attended with symptoms of torsion of the pedicle, are to be regarded as belonging to a different category. During the crisis the patient is confined to bed, the foot of the bed is elevated, and hot fomentations are applied to the loin. The operation of nephropexy is recommended when there are