192 THE EAP. the body. Maggots, larvae and insects should first be killed by instillations of alcohol and then syringed out. Tympanic Membrane and Middle Ear—Traumatic Rupture of the Tympanic Membrane.—Perforating wounds may result from direct violence caused by the patient—for example, in attempts to remove wax or foreign bodies—or by clumsiness on the part of the surgeon. It is also a comparatively common complication of fracture of the middle fossa of the base of the skull. More commonly, perhaps, the membrane is ruptured from indirect violence due to great condensation of the air in the external auditory meatus, following blows upon the ear, heavy artillery reports, or diving from a height. The injury is followed by pain in the ear, often by considerable deafness and tinnitus, and bleeding is frequently observed by the patient. If early examination of the ear is made, coagulated blood may be found in the meatus or upon the membrane, or ecchymosis may be visible on the latter. A rupture in the membrane follow- ing indirect violence is usually lozenge-shaped. During inflation by Valsalva’s method the air may be heard to whistle through the perforation. In all such injuries the hearing should be carefully tested, and the possibility of an injury to the labyrinth investigated by means of the tuning-fork tests. Prognosis as regards hearing should be guarded at first. As a rule the rupture heals rapidly, and no treatment is necessary save the introduc- tion of a piece of cotton-wool into the meatus. Syringing should be avoided unless suppuration has already occurred, in which case treatment for this condition must be adopted. As these injuries frequently have a medico-legal bearing, careful notes should be made. Acute Inflammation of the Middle Ear.—This usually arises in connection with septic conditions of the throat and naso- pharynx. It varies considerably in its severity, and may run a mild or a severe course. It is characterised by pain in the ear, deafness, and a certain degree of fever. In children the symptoms may be such as to simulate meningitis. In the majority of cases it is associated with mastoiditis. When the tympanic membrane is examined in the mild forms of the affection or in the early stages of the more severe type, the vessels about the handle of the malleus and periphery of the membrane are injected, and possibly a number of injected vessels may be seen coursing across the surface of the membrane. In the later stages the whole membrane presents a red surface with the anatomical landmarks indistinguishable, the membrane bulges outwards into the meatus, and if an abscess is pointing, a yellowish area