269 INJURIES OF THE LUNG. into the cavity—so-called “ traumatic pleurisy.” As a rule this fluid is reabsorbed, but if it is infected with bacteria, for example by tapping with an imperfectly sterilised instrument, it is liable to become purulent. Penetrating wounds, produced, for instance, by pointed in- struments or bullets, are more liable to be followed by septic complications. Extensive open wounds, such as result from machinery accidents, explosions, or from the patient being im- paled on a railing, are attended with collapse of the lung. Injuries of the Lung.—Contusion and laceration of the lung may occur without fracture or any other gross lesion of the chest wall, but as a rule they are associated with fracture of one or more of the ribs, and are often directly due to fragments of the broken bones being driven into the lung substance. In most cases the tear in the lung is of considerable extent, and as it implicates the visceral pleura, hasmothorax and pneumothorax almost always occur. Haemoptysis is usually present, but may be absent even when the lung is severely lacerated. If the parietal pleura is ruptured, subcutaneous emphysema may develop over the chest wall, while, if the pleura is intact, it may appear at the root of the neck. Shock is always a prominent feature, and for some hours the patient may remain collapsed, cyanosed, almost pulseless, and apparently moribund, and then recover rapidly. In other cases death results from haemorrhage and asphyxia due to blood entering the air-passages. In 'penetrating wounds of the lung, caused, for example, by a stab or the entrance of a bullet, the patient presents the same general symptoms as in contusion and laceration. The open wound, however, permits of the escape of blood, which in many cases is very profuse. There is often considerable difficulty in determining whether the blood is coming from a divided inter- costal or internal mammary artery or from the lung tissue itself. A consideration of the position of the external wound, the presence or absence of other symptoms of injury of the lung, and the way in which the blood escapes—whether in a continuous stream, or only when the patient coughs or moves—will aid in settling this point. The fact that the blood is mixed with air is not conclusive evidence that it comes from the lung, as the air may have been sucked into the chest by the respiratory move- ments. The risk of septic infection of the pleura is increased in penetrating wounds, and empyema, septic pneumonia, and gangrene of the lung are liable to ensue. Treatment.—In all cases in which the thoracic viscera have been injured, the patient must be kept absolutely quiet in bed in