UMBILICAL HERNIA. 379 quently to the closure of the abdominal wall, and is due to yielding of the umbilical cicatrix. It appears some weeks or months after birth, and is equally frequent in the two sexes. It forms a small, rounded or cylindrical projection which is easily reducible, and which almost without exception disappears before puberty. The treatment consists in reducing the hernia, and approximating or overlapping the edges of the opening by a broad strip of plaster applied circularly round the abdomen from behind forwards. The Umbilical hernia of adults is met with chiefly in corpulent women over thirty-five, and especially in those who have borne children. The pro- trusion of peritoneum may occur at any part of the umbilical scar, or in its vicinity, in the latter case the hernia being, strictly speak- ing, of the ventral type. The opening in the abdominal wall is usually circular, and is bounded by the fused aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. The muscles are weak and flabby, and the recti widely separated. The contents usually consist of omentum, while the larger varieties contain the trans- verse colon, and less frequently small intestine. The omentum always lies in front, and may form a complete lining to the peritoneal sac. Sometimes there are two separate openings leading into a common hernial sac, which is not infrequently divided into loculi, a fact which it is important to remember, since intestine may be strangulated in one of these loculi, and be perfectly free in another. As regards the causation of the hernia it is undoubtedly associated with progressive adiposity. It may be that the deposition of fat in the abdominal wall, taking place uniformly except in the umbilical cicatrix, causes stretching of this structure, so that it yields more readily to increased intra- abdominal pressure; or it may be that the fat deposited in the omentum tends to send out protrusions of its substance through weak points in the cicatrix, especially in the situation formerly occupied by the umbilical vein. The hernia develops gradually, and forms a smooth, globular, painless swelling. With increasing size it may become lobulated, as a result of adhesions between the contents and the wall of Fig. 74. — Umbilical and Inguinal Hernia in boy, eet 8.