THE GUMS. 143 conditions of the patient, and administering appropriate drugs, such as lime-juice, iodide of potash, quinine, or cod-liver oil, according to the cause. Antiseptic mouth-washes and dentifrices are also indicated. Chlorate of potash, being excreted in* the saliva, is particularly useful. When the gums fungate they may be cauterised. Pyorrhoea alveolaris is an extremely chronic form of gingivitis, which begins in relation to the necks of the teeth and the alveolo- dental periosteum. It is due to septic infection, and is associated with an accumulation of tartar between the gums and the teeth. A muco-purulent discharge escapes from within the free edge of the gum and alveolus. The alveolar borders and the gum subsequently undergo atrophy, so that the roots are exposed, and the teeth are liable to fall out. The condition may only affect a few teeth, or it may spread to the whole set, in which case the patient may in the course of some years become edentu- lous. It is essentially a disease of middle and advanced life. The. treatment consists in removing the tartar from the teeth, applying strong antiseptics—pure carbolic, or 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate—to the groove between the teeth and the gums, and employing antiseptic mouth-washes and dentifrices. Hypertrophy of the gums is occasionally met with in children and young adults. The patients are usually mentally defective, and the teeth develop very early and are abnormally large. The gums almost bury the teeth, and form large polypoid masses which tend to fungate. The treatment consists in removing not only the hypertrophied gums, but also the affected alveolus (Heath). A localised hypertrophy—polypus of the gum—sometimes results from the irritation of carious teeth, and may simulate an epulis. The swelling is usually pedunculated, and if cut away close up to the alveolar margin does not tend to recur. Epithelioma sometimes originates on the gum in relation to a carious tooth or to an artificial tooth plate. The growth tends to invade the bone and to spread to the cheek or buccal mucous membrane. Early and complete removal of the tumour and adjacent segment of the bone is the only treatment. Other tumours of the gums, such as angiomata and papillomata, are extremely rare. Epulis is described with tumours of the jaws. The Jaws. Inflammatory Affections. —Pyogenic Inflammations. — The