333 TUMOURS OF THE PERITONEUM. length, the longest recorded measuring seventeen and a half inches. Adhesions and bands may exist without giving rise to any symptoms, or they may, by fixing or dragging upon structures to which they are connected, cause suffering and bring about conditions dangerous to life. Abdominal pain and discomfort may result from traction on the parietal peritoneum; the functions of the stomach may be disturbed from the pylorus being dragged upon or narrowed ; the intestine may become kinked, twisted or strangulated, causing colicky pain, constipa- tion or even obstruction of the bowels. The formation of adhesions after abdominal operations may be prevented by taking- care to avoid irritating the peritoneum by rough handling or prolonged exposure to the air, by removing all blood-clots from the peritoneal cavity, and by suturing the peritoneum over raw surfaces and pedicle stumps. The bowels and omentum should be replaced in their proper relations, and this is best accom- plished by tilling the cavity with hot saline solution so as to lloat the intestines and allow them to adjust themselves. Tumours op the Peritoneum and Extra-Peritoneal Cellular Tissue. Mesenteric tumours originate in the extra-peritoneal tissue at the root of the mesentery, and as they increase in size they insinuate themselves between the layers of the mesentery and project towards the abdominal cavity. They are also known as retro-peritoneal tumours because of this relation to the posterior layer of the peritoneum. They are usually innocent in character, and consist almost exclusively of fat, hence the terms mesenteric or retro-peritoneal lipomata. They rarely cause symptoms until they attain a large size, and then by their bulk they may exert pressure on adjacent viscera. They form rounded or oval, lobulated, soft or semi-fluctuating tumours which occupy the central area of the abdomen, and are slightly movable from side to side. One or more coils of intestine may run obliquely across the tumour. The possibility of removing the tumour can only be determined after opening the abdomen. Apart from adhesions the chief difficulty consists in avoiding injuring the large mesenteric blood-vessels • should these be damaged, it may be necessary to resect extensive segments of the intestine in relation to the tumour. The peritoneal investment is divided, and an attempt made to shell the tumour from out the mesentery. The malignant form of mesenteric tumour—the retro-peritoneal sar-