426 THE INTESTINES. pressure on one another, and the loop itself becomes engorged with blood and distended with gas, and is so distended that it may extend up to the umbilicus, or even into the right hypochon- drium, lying in front of the small intestine and filling up the abdomen. Peritonitis develops early in relation to the affected loop and spreads thence by continuity. The congestion of the loop becomes more and more marked, the walls become dark red or black, are infiltrated with blood, and tear readily, and, if the patient live long enough, they present irregular areas of gangrene. The ascending colon and caecum when provided with a long mesentery are also subject to volvulus. Volvulus may also affect a single loop of small intestine, especially as a complication of strangulation by a band, or it may affect the greater part of the ileum. The rotation is usually in the direction of the hands of a watch, and amounts to one com- plete turn or more. The morbid changes are the same as in the pelvic colon. There is usually blood-stained fluid in the abdomen. Clinical Features.—Volvulus of the sigmoid is most often met with in men between forty and sixty. The onset is usually sudden ; there is severe pain with exacerbations, referred to the region of the umbilicus, or less frequently to the left iliac fossa. Vomiting is not a prominent feature and may be entirely absent, or its appearance may be delayed. Collapse is not so marked as in acute strangulation of the small intestine. The abdominal walls soon become rigid, partly from distension, and partly from the onset of local peritonitis. Distension of the abdomen appears early, and may attain considerable proportions; it may be localised at first, appearing as a rounded elevation in the left segment of the umbilical region, but it very soon becomes general. As peritonitis commencing in the twisted loop is very constant, tenderness is developed in the first instance over the gut affected, and then over the entire abdomen. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen and discover- ing the twisted loop of bowel. As much of the loop as possible is brought out at the wound and inspected. If greatly distended it should be opened at once and emptied of its contents. If it is viable and capable of being untwisted, the opening is closed and the bowel returned within the abdomen. If the twist cannot be reduced, or if the bowel is not viable, it must be resected either at once or after an interval. Should the latter course be decided upon, the bowel is drawn well out of the wound, and an artificial anus established above the seat of the volvulus. The relapse of volvulus when the bowel has been simply