2 THE SCALP. Injuries of the Scalp. Subcutaneous Injuries.—Extravasations of blood may take place into the tissues of the scalp as a result of a crush, or a blow from a blunt weapon. A simple contusion of the super- ficial layers, for example, may follow a blow or fall, and owing to the density of the tissues the blood effused is small in quantity and comparatively limited. The part is tender, firm to the touch, swollen, and discoloured, being at first dark blue, and later becoming greenish-yellow. So long as the skin remains intact, no treatment is called for, though the disap- pearance of the swelling may be hastened by elastic pressure and massage. Arterio-venous aneurysm sometimes develops as a result of such injuries. Hoematoma of the scalp results when lacerated vessels bleed into the sub-aponeurotic space. Owing to the laxity of the 'connective tissue in this area, the effused blood tends to diffuse itself widely, and, according to the position assumed by the patient, gravitates to the region of the eyebrow, the occiput, or the zygoma. The extent of a hsematoma and the rapidity with which it forms depend upon the size of the injured vessels. It sometimes happens, when a large artery is torn, that the swelling pulsates. Owing to the fact that the margins of the effusion are often raised and of a very resistant character, a hsematoma of the scalp may readily be mistaken for a depressed fracture of the skull. A differential diagnosis can usually be made by observing that the swelling is on a higher level than the rest of the skull; that the raised margin can to a large extent be dispersed by making firm, steady pressure over it with the finger; and that, on doing so, the smooth and intact surface of the skull can be recognised. When a fracture exists, the finger sinks into the depression, and the irregular edge of the bone can be felt. In doubtful cases, and particularly if cerebral symptoms are present, an exploratory incision should be made. Even large hsematomata are usually completely absorbed, but the dispersion of the clot may be hastened by massage and elastic pressure. Any small excoriation or wound of the skin must be carefully disinfected and dressed. Sometimes blood-cysts, consisting of a connective tissue capsule filled with a yellowish-red fluid, remain, and may be treated by incision or excision. These effusions are to be distinguished from the cephal-hcema- toma, in which the blood collects between the pericranium and the