31 TRAUMATIC EPILEPSY. may manifest itself soon after the injury, for example, when the cause is a fragment of hone irritating the cortex. In other cases it may be several years before the symptoms appear. The onset is usually sudden, and the “signal symptom,” for example, jerking of the thumb, conjugate deviation of the eyes, or motor aphasia, indicates the seat of the lesion. At first the attacks only recur at intervals of, it may be, weeks or months, but as time goes on they become more and more frequent, until there may be as many as forty or fifty in a day. Sometimes the patient loses consciousness during the fit; sometimes he remains partly conscious. As the disease progresses, certain groups of muscles may become paralysed and the patient may pass into a state of idiocy. Finally he passes into what is known as the “status epilepticus,” in which the fits succeed one another with- out remission, the breathing becomes stertorous, the temperature rises, the pulse becomes very rapid, coma supervenes, and the patient dies. Treatment.—The administration of bromides is only palliative. Operation is indicated in all cases in which the “ signal symptom ” indicates a limited and accessible portion of the brain as the seat of the lesion, and also in cases where there is a depression of the skull or other definite evidence of cranial injury. The more recent the injury the better is the prospect, as secondary changes are less likely to have taken place, and the peculiarly irritable state of the brain—sometimes referred to as the “epileptic habit ”—lias not developed. The operation consists in trephining the skull, and removing the irritant—depressed bone, thickened and adherent membranes, a cyst, or sclerosed patch of cortex. The point at which the skull is opened is determined by the seat of the injury and the focal brain symptoms. After exposure of the brain, stimulation of the cortex by electricity has been employed as a means of recognising the diseased area. The clinical value of this procedure, however, is very slight. To prevent adhesions forming afresh, some surgeons insert plates of gold or silver between the brain and the overlying parts. Kocher has pointed out that it is not advisable to replace the bone after operating for Jacksonian epilepsy. After operation the patient must abstain from work, especially manual labour, for several years. The return of fits within a few days of the operation does not necessarily mean failure, as they often pass off again. Complete and permanent cure is not common, but the number and severity of the attacks are usually so far diminished that the patient’s life is bearable. The prognosis is less favourable in alcoholic subjects.