28G THE BREAST. up and down. At the same time it may be observed whether the tumour can be moved independently of the breast or only with it. The consistence of a tumour in the breast is best determined by pressing it back against the chest wall with the Hat of the hand while the patient’s arm is abducted. The condition of the various groups of lymphatic glands in the axilla and above the clavicle should next be noted. Malformations. Complete absence of one or both breasts—amazia—occasion- ally occurs. It is usually met with in males, and is generally unilateral, affecting most frequently the left side. The sternal fibres of the pectoralis major and the subjacent portion of the chest wall are often imperfectly developed in these cases, and sometimes the whole upper extremity on the affected side is defective. Congenital absence of the nipple—athelia—is more common than amazia, and is usually bilateral. The condition known as micromazia, in which the infantile type of mamma persists after puberty, is also more common than amazia. It is usually associated with a deficiency in the organs of generation, as well as in the pectoral muscles and chest wall. The occurrence of supernumerary breasts—polymazia or poly- mastia—or of supernumerary nipples—polythelia—is by no means uncommon. These accessory structures are usually situated on the chest wall, the upper part of the abdominal wall, or in the axilke, but they have been met with on the shoulder, the buttock, the thigh, and in other extraordinary positions. As a rule they are functionless. Removal is only called for when the supernumerary organ, for example an axillary mamma, gives rise to pain or discomfort when in a state of physiological engorgement. Diffuse hypertrophy of the breast is comparatively seldom met with in this country, but is not uncommon in the tropics. The enlargement, which is due chiefly to an increased develop- ment of the fibrous and fatty elements of the breast, and to a less extent of the glandular tissue, is almost always bilateral, and usually manifests itself either at the age of puberty or in the early months of pregnancy. Sometimes the breasts attain an enormous size, hanging down over the abdomen, and in some cases even reaching to the thighs. Pain is seldom a prominent feature, but the patient may be seriously inconvenienced by the size and weight of the organs. As a rule the glands are function- less. Sometimes the hypertrophy of the mammae is associated with lymphatic elephantiasis of the legs.