THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 526 administration of such drugs as cascara, sulphur, castor oil, or one or other of the natural mineral waters, or by suitable dietary, so that the patient has a soft, easy motion at least once a day. Drastic purgatives, and especially such as contain aloes, are to be avoided, as excessive action of the bowels aggravates the hsemorrhoidal condition. Alcohol, too, should be avoided. Any cause for straining that may be present— such, for example, as stricture, prostatic enlargement, or vesical calculus—should also be remedied. If haemorrhage occurs with defecation the injection of an ounce of olive oil before the act lubricates the passage and may prevent bleeding. After defeca- tion the injection of a few ounces of cold water into the rectum and cold sponging of the perineum are useful in toning up the rectal muscles. Local styptics, applied in the form of ointments, or as suppositories containing adrenalin, liazeline, gallic or tannic acid, may be used, but are not always efficacious. Inasmuch as an “attack of the piles” may lead to cure of the condition by thrombosis or sloughing of the affected veins, it is sometimes advisable to palliate the symptoms during the attack by soothing anodyne applications. In most cases, however, it is better to give the patient a general anaesthetic and remove the piles. Operative Treatment.-—It is only necessary to refer particu- larly to three of the many operative procedures which have been suggested for the treatment of internal piles : ligature, excision, and clamp and cautery. The bowels should be freely opened for two or three days before operation, a copious enema being administered each night, and about three hours before operation an enema of boracic lotion should bo given. Ligature.—This is the most simple and the most generally applicable method of treatment. Under general anaesthesia the anus is dilated by stretching the sphincters and the piles are thus brought into view. Each pile is grasped separately by suitable forceps, and, after the mucous membrane around its base has been snipped through with scissors, is transfixed with a blunt needle carrying strong silk or pile-twine. The ligature is then tied as tightly as possible, and the part of the pile beyond it cut off. If the ligature is applied as a Staffordshire knot there is no risk of it slipping off the stump. Redundant folds of skin around the anus should be snipped off with scissors, and any haimorrhage arrested by pressure or ligature. Excision.—A simple and safe method suggested by Mitchell of Belfast consists in clamping the base of each pile with a pair of Kocher’s artery forceps applied in the long axis of the bowel,