HYDRONEPHROSIS. 557 are of great importance ; they are not confined to hydronephrosis originating from renal displacement. Recurrent attacks of intermittent hydronephrosis may occur from other causes; fox- example from swelling of the mucous membrane of the pelvis, such as may attend the congestion of menstruation, sexual excitement, or alcoholic indulgence; or from the sudden overfilling of the pelvis after the ingestion of large quantities of diuretic beverages. When all outflow from the pelvis is arrested, this is described as the conversion of an “ ojoen ” into a “ closed hydronephrosis.” It must be clearly understood that even in a closed hydrone- phrosis the lumen of the ureter is not necessarily obliterated ; a ureteral catheter may be passed from the bladder upwards into the pelvis. Obstacles in the course of the ureter are less common causes of hydronephrosis ; they include such conditions as congenital anomalies in the course of the ureter, im- pacted calculus, villous growth, stricture, injuries to the ureter in gynecological operations, compres- sion of the ureter by pelvic tumours, or ti-action upon and kinking of the ux'eter by cicatricial tissue formed around the uterus. Obstacles to the outflow from the ureter into the bladder may affect one or both kidneys; the most likely causes are tumours of the bladder, calculus, enlargement of the prostate, paralysis of the bladder, and stricture of the urethra. All of these cause in- creased backward pressure which may result in hydronephrosis, and in the majority of cases this is associated with septic infection resulting in pyonephrosis. Functional Disturbances of Micturition.—Irritability of the bladder, characterised by excessive frequency and difficulty in passing water from reflex spasm of the sphincter muscle, may lead to hydronephrosis. The urine only escapes in drops, and the bladder contents are under great pressure, so that in course of time the ureters, and later the pelves of both kidneys, become dilated. It is characteristic of this form that the dilation of the ureters is relatively greater than that of the pelvis. Fig. 127.—-The Renal Pelvis laid open to show valve at outlet. P = pelvis. K = valve. (After Israel.)