006 THE URINARY BLADDER. then introduced and the stone broken into fragments small enough to be extracted by the ordinary lithotomy forceps or scoop—perineal lithotrity. Lithotomy—“Cutting for Stone.”—It is difficult to define the conditions which render a cutting operation preferable to one or other of the crushing procedures. Formerly it was largely determined by the size and consistence of the stone, but increased experience has shown that even the largest and densest stones may be crushed, provided the operator possesses the necessary skill and a perfect set of instruments. Within recent years the limits of litholapaxy have one by one been removed. The following may be regarded as indications for lithotomy :— (1) when there is some condition within the bladder, such as enlargement of the prostate, which is to be dealt with at the same time as the stone is removed; (2) when the stone cannot be grasped by the lithotrite, for example, in some cases of encysted stone; (3) when the bladder is so contracted upon and adherent to the stone that there is no space for the manipula- tion of the lithotrite; (4) when there is a stricture of the urethra which cannot be dilated sufficiently to allow the passage of the instruments required for litholapaxy; (5) in stones immovably fixed in the neck of the bladder. Except in the last of these indications, the bladder is opened above the pubes—supra-pubic lithotomy. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position; the bladder is washed out and then filled with boracic lotion, and the urethra compressed by a turn of bandage round the penis. An incision is made in the middle line, beginning over the symphysis and running upwards towards the navel, and the pyramidales muscles are drawn apart. Where more room is required, Kocher’s incision, which runs parallel to the brim of the pelvis, may be employed. The pre-vesical fat behind the symphysis is displaced upwards, carry- ing with it the reflection of the peritoneum. The wall of the bladder is recognised and incised from below upwards, the finger following the knife to explore the bladder before the lotion has escaped. The stone is felt for and removed with the scoop or lithotomy forceps, the wound in the bladder being enlarged if necessary. The interior of the bladder is then further explored in case of there being more than one stone. If the prostate is enlarged, its removal may be undertaken at this stage, particularly if the bladder is pouched, as these conditions are likely to favour the formation of fresh concretions. If the urine is aseptic the wound in the bladder is sutured. If there