644 THE URETHRA. risk, and in tight strictures with superadded septic infection it is liable to favour the development of peri-urethral cellulitis and extravasation. Operative Methods.—The cutting of a stricture may be carried out by an instrument passed along the urethra—internal ure- throtomy, or through an external wound—external urethrotomy. Interned urethrotomy is most useful in resilient, valvular, and bridle strictures, especially of the penile urethra, when dilatation fails to make progress, or the urethra is so sensitive that the patient cannot bear it, or when, for some reason or another, a rapid cure is required. It should not be attempted if the septic element is prominent, and especially if there is any peri-urethral inflammation. The cutting instrument is known as a urethro- tome, of which there are many patterns. Recontraction occurs unless prevented by the passage of a full-sized bougie at regular intervals. External urethrotomy is especially called for when no instru- ment can be passed through the stricture, or when the latter is complicated with peri-urethral cellulitis or abscess, fistuke, false passages, or extravasation of urine. Being more thorough than any of the preceding methods it may be employed when these have been tried and have failed. In traumatic strictures it is often the only feasible method. Syme’s operation is always to be preferred in cases in which an instrument can be passed through the stricture. If Syme’s shouldered staff can be introduced the external operation is at once proceeded with, but if not, the stricture may first be dilated with bougies, or may be cut from within by Maisonneuve’s ure- throtome, the filiform guide of which can nearly always be got to pass. Syme’s staff is then passed until the shoulder hitches against the face of the stricture; the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a median incision made in the perineum, exposing the shoulder of the staff; the point of the knife is then inserted into the groove in the narrow part of the staff beyond the shoulder, and made to cut the stricture from behind forwards. A full-sized rubber catheter is then passed from the meatus into the bladder, aided by the finger in the wound, and is tied in. A wooden plug may be fitted into the catheter and removed at intervals to empty the bladder, or the catheter may be fitted to a suction apparatus. In septic cases, the perineal wound is lightly packed with iodoform worsted; in others it is closed by tiers of sutures. Healing frequently takes place without a drop of urine having escaped from the wound. If the urine is ammoniacal the bladder must be washed out several times a day,