PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 341 The artery of the appendix runs in the mesentery near its free border, and is liable to be compressed or kinked when the mesentery is pulled upon or twisted. The lymphatics pass in the mesentery to one or two small glands near its base, and from them the efferent vessels pass to the meso-colic glands behind the ascending colon. The minute structure of the appendix is remarkable chiefly on account of the large amount of lymphoid tissue in the submucous coat, suggesting an analogy with the tonsil, which it also resembles in its susceptibility to bacterial infection. Pathological Anatomy.—The inflammatory lesions included under the term appendicitis are primarily due to bacterial infec- tion of the mucous membrane of the appendix, and especially of the lymphoid tissue situated beneath the epithelial lining. The organisms chiefly concerned are colon bacilli and streptococci, together with certain anaerobic bacteria which impart to the pus its foetid odour, and are mainly responsible for the occurrence of gangrene and the severe forms of general intoxication. The anatomical changes range from those which attend a simple catarrh to a necrosis or gangrene of a portion of the wall of the appendix or of the whole organ. The importance of the catarrhal changes is that the swelling of the mucous mem- brane tends to narrow or even to block the lumen and the communication with the caecum, so that the contents of the tube are retained and afford a favourable nidus for organisms. The erosions which form on the epithelial surface enable the organisms to invade the submucous tissue, from which they may spread to the muscular and peritoneal coats. The cicatricial changes which follow upon catarrh may result in the formation of one or more annular constrictions of the tube which, by caus- ing retention of the contents, may determine fresh outbreaks of inflammation from time to time. Chronic retention and catarrh, together with decomposition changes in the contents of the tube, are the chief agents in the production of what are known as appendicular concretions. These are rounded or oval calculi consisting of a variable mixture of lime salts, bacteria, and materials derived from the faeces; they are usually so soft that they can be crushed between the fingers. They are commonly grasped by the wall of the appendix either near the apex or towards the middle of the tube between two annular constrictions. Once formed, a concretion may increase in size by further deposit on its exterior, and in all probability it tends to keep up the catarrhal process to which it owed its origin, and by its mechanical pressure to damage that part of the wall with which it lies in contact. These concretions often bear a striking resemblance to date-stones, plum-stones or orange-pips, but it is