441 MALIGNANT STRICTURE. of obstruction, or it may be blown up so tensely and uniformly that no inference as to localisation of the block is possible. Diagnosis.—In the absence of symptoms of obstruction, if no tumour is to be felt, the diagnosis is conjectural and based on probabilities. When there is a palpable tumour in the ileo- caecal region, the diagnosis is to be made from a tuberculous mass and from appendicital lesions. Tumours in the hepatic flexure, the transverse, or the descending colon, are to be differen- tiated from tumours of the kidney, gall-bladder, liver, or stomach. In women tumours of the sigmoid flexure may resemble those originating from the uterine appendages. When symptoms of obstruction are present, the diagnosis is to be made from such other causes as stricture of the lesser bowel, volvulus, incomplete strangulation by a band, matting of the bowels, fascal accumulation, and tumours of other organs pressing on the bowel. In the majority of cases the difficulty is not cleared up until the abdomen is opened. Treatment.—In the latent period, that is, before the onset of obstruction, the removal of the affected segment of bowel affords a good prospect of radical cure because of the rarity of secondary growths. Before the abdomen is opened it is not always possible to determine if the tumour is removable by operation. The ideal method of resecting the bowel and establishing an imme- diate junction between the divided ends is not always practicable, because of the difficulty of bringing these together. Nor is it always advisable, because the bowel above the stricture, although free from cancer, is dilated and semi-paralysed, and its mucous membrane may be the seat of ulceration—all adverse conditions for primary union and restoration of the intestinal functions. A two-stage operation, therefore, is to be preferred, and is now usually practised, except in the case of the cascum or sigmoid flexure, where the conditions for immediate junction are more favourable. At the first stage the affected segment of bowel is brought out and fixed at the wound, and at the second—some days later—it is removed. A Paul’s tube may be inserted into each of the open ends of the bowel. After the upper segment of colon has thoroughly emptied itself and recovered its normal state, the resulting artificial anus is closed by one or other of the methods to be described later. If the conditions found on opening the abdomen exclude the prospect of a radical cure, recourse may be had to one or other of the palliative procedures —exclusion of the affected segment, entero-anastomosis, or arti- ficial anus. Entero-anastomosis obviates the stricture by providing a short