671 CYSTS OF THE TESTIS. comparatively benign, and are composed of numerous cysts, varying in size from a pea to a hazel-nut; with smooth walls and containing a clear, glairy fluid. The stroma consists of a varying amount of fibrous tissue in which nodules of cartilage are fre- quently present. Others are distinctly malignant, and are com- posed of a few irregular cysts into which papillary growths project. The fluid is usually brown or blood-stained. The stroma is composed of a mixture of cellular connective tissue, mucoid tissue, and often definitely sarcomatous tissue—hence the term cystic sarcoma which is sometimes applied to this variety. No hard and fast line separates these varieties, and it is not uncommon for the innocent forms to take on malignant characters and become disseminated. These cystic growths appear to originate in the remnants of the Wolffian body-—the organ of Giraldes—which lie at the hilum of the testis. The secreting substance of the testis is found flattened against the upper and anterior part of the tunica albuginea. Clinical Features.—These growths usually appear in men of about thirty, and the symptoms vary with the malignancy of the growth. In the more innocent forms the swelling is painless, ovoid, smooth, and of a semi-solid consistence. There is no glandular enlargement, the cord is not implicated, and the general health of the patient is unaffected. In the malignant forms the growth is more rapid, the swelling is irregular, bossy, and of unequal consistence, the pelvic and lumbar glands are early involved, and the patient exhibits the general signs of malignant disease. Early removal of the testis is indicated in all forms of eystoma. Cysts of the Epididymis: Encysted Hydrocele of the Epididymis. — Cystic tumours are occasionally met with in relation to the epididymis, and are probably due to dilatation rnd degeneration of one or other of the remnants of the Wolffian body which lie between the head of the epididymis and the testis. They are entirely outside the tunica vaginalis, and contain a limpid, alkaline, colourless or opalescent fluid which liffers from that found in hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis in aeing of a lower specific gravity (about 1004) and practically free rom albumin. Haemorrhage may occur into the cavity— encysted hcematocele of the epididymis. As the majority of hese cysts contain spermatozoa—sometimes complete and motile, >ut more frequently immature—they have been termed sperma- toceles. The condition is often bilateral, and is usually met