529 TUMOURS. innocent rectal tumours tend to become pedunculated, they are sometimes spoken of g’enerically as rectal polypi. The term polypus, however, only denotes that a growth is attached to the rectal wall by a longer or shorter pedicle, and conveys no indication of its histological structure. The pedicle is composed of a varying quantity of submucous connective tissue covered by mucous membrane, and in it run the vessels which supply the growth. The traction exerted on the tumour by the muscular efforts of the bowel in attempting to expel it tends gradually to lengthen the pedicle. As a rule the tumour is single, but in some cases there are several independent growths present. In rare cases the whole of the rectal mucous membrane is infiltrated with small tumours—disseminated polypi. The most common varieties of polypi are the adenoma and the fibroma. The adenoma is usually met with in children, and originates in one of the glands of the rectal mucosa, forming a soft, vascular tumour varying in size from a small cherry to a walnut. It is of a dull-red colour, and being somewhat irregular on the surface resembles a large raspberry in appearance. Tt may be sessile, or may have a pedicle varying in length from one to four or. five inches. The fibrous polypus differs from the adenomatous variety chiefly in the fact that the fibrous tissue is greatly in excess of the other elements in the growth. It is met with as a rule in adults, and forms a hard, nodular tumour covered by thickened mucous membrane. It is usually pear-shaped, and may reach the size of a hen’s egg. Clinical Features.—The main symptoms of polypi are irrita- bility of the rectum, a sensation as if a foreign body were present, and a constant desire to empty the bowel. The tenesmus is accompanied by a discharge of thin and offensive mucus, and there is sometimes slight bleeding. During defeca- tion the tumour may be extruded through the anus, and its pedicle grasped by the sphincter. In some cases the pedicle is torn and the polypus passed with the faeces. On digital examination, the growth may be detected by passing the finger well into the rectum and sweeping it round the bowel in order to catch on the pedicle. It may be possible to protrude the growth from the anus. Anal fissure is a common accompaniment of fibrous polypus, and prolapse of the bowel is frequently in- duced by the constant straining, particularly in children.! The treatment consists in stretching the sphincters, apply- ing a ligature around the pedicle as high up as possible, and VOL. II--34