ULCERS OF THE STOMACH. 401 ately evident, the perforation must be systematically sought for, the pyloric region, the anterior wall, the lesser curvature, and the cardia being in turn examined. If no perforation is found on the anterior surface of the stomach, the posterior surface should be explored through an opening into the lesser sac, made by tearing a hole in the gastro-colic omentum close to the great curvature. Whenever the perforation is found, it should be plugged with iodoform gauze to prevent leakage during sub- sequent manipulations. The affected portion of the stomach is pulled within reach, the parietal wound being enlarged, if necessary, to admit of this. If the stomach is full, the contents may be syphoned off by a small tube introduced through the opening, and the viscus washed out with saline solution or boracic lotion. The perforation is then closed by surrounding it with a purse-string suture, and introducing a double row of sutures. It is seldom advisable to pare the edges or to excise the ulcer. When, owing to its inaccessible position, or to rigidity or ;friability of the stomach wall, the perforation cannot be closed by sutures, it may be occluded by stitching a piece of omentum, or of the liver or other adjacent viscus, over it. The possibility of a second perforation must be borne in mind. The second stage of the operation consists in cleansing the peritoneal cavity. When the perforation is a small one, and the leakage of gastric contents very limited, it is sufficient to mop up the fluid and lymph with gauze; but when the general cavity of the peritoneum is soiled, it should be thoroughly irrigated with a large quantity of saline solution at a temperature of 105° F. This irrigation should be carried out systematically, each portion of the cavity being freely flushed out. Special attention should be directed to the space between the diaphragm and the liver on each side of the suspensory ligament, the space between the stomach and the spleen, and the pouches in relation to the kidneys. A separate incision should be made above the pubes for the cleansing and drainage of the pouch of Douglas. Glass drainage tubes may be left in each wound for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. If the patient get over the initial shock and septic intoxication, there is still the risk of further complications, for example, leakage leading to septic peritonitis, the occurrence of perforation in relation to a second ulcer, septicaemia, pleuro-pneumonia, and pyoplilebitis of the portal vein and hepatic abscess. Perigastric Abscess and Gastric Fistula.—These complica- tions are usually associated with the perforation of a chronic gastric ulcer which has become adherent to surrounding structures. VOL. II—26