651 THE SCROTUM. one or other of the connective tissue planes of the scrotum. It forms a tense, glistening, black or violet-coloured swelling which on palpation is found to be of semi-solid consistence, and to yield the peculiar soft crepitant sensation characteristic of blood-clot. The testis, which usually lies below and behind the scrotal swelling, is found to move independently of it—a point which serves to distinguish a hsematoma of the scrotum from a lnematocele of the tunica vaginalis. For the treatment of these conditions rest in bed, the applica- tion of warm fomentations and of support to the scrotum, are the chief measures employed. If the swelling persists the patient should wear a suspensory bandage. Diseases.—Acute Cellulitis and Gangrene.—The scrotum may be the seat of an acute phlegmonous inflammation, which, owing to the comparatively low vitality of the tissues, some- times results in gangrene of considerable portions of the integument. It is important to distinguish this condition from an almost exactly similar one which ensues when urine is extravasated into the perineum and scrotum as a result of rupture of the urethra. The skin becomes dusky red, tense, and glossy, and there is marked swelling from oedema, which may spread to the penis, the groin, and the anterior abdominal wall. As the inflammation progresses patches of the skin assume a violet and then a greenish colour, and finally undergo necrosis, forming irregular, sodden sloughs under which putrefactive gases are generated and give rise to emphysematous crackling. If the patient survive there is profuse suppuration, and when the sloughs are separated the testes are exposed. The testes may also slough, but as a rule after the inflammation subsides they are covered over with granu- lations, and the rapidity and completeness with which cicatrisation takes place under these conditions is often remarkable. Treatment.—In the early stages the patient should be confined to bed with the pelvis and scrotum elevated, and have anti- septic fomentations applied. Suppuration and gangrene can often be prevented by making several free, longitudinal incisions through the skin and dartos. Such incisions are attended with comparatively little bleeding, but a copious oozing of inflamma- tory exudate usually continues for some time. When gangrene threatens or has actually taken place the incision should be carried through the discoloured patches. Charcoal poultices are useful in promoting the separation of the sloughs. As the sloughs separate they should be clipped away with scissors, and the raw surfaces covered with a mild antiseptic dressing. Owing