201 SYMPTOMS OF NASAL AFFECTIONS. into the vestibule and dilating it, the following parts should be sought for and examined :—Close to the floor, and attached to the outer wall of the nasal cavity, is the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body (Fig. 50). This structure overhangs the inferior meatus. It presents a pink appearance, and its size varies in different individuals. At a higher level and on a posterior plane is the anterior end of the middle turbin- ated body, which is of a paler colour than the inferior, and is only visible when the head is tilted backwards. Between it and the inferior turbinated body is the middle meatus, with which communicate the openings of the antrum of Highmore, the frontal sinus, and the anterior ethmoidal cells, A considerable area of the anterior part of the nasal septum is also visible by anterior rhinoscopy, and between it and the middle turbinal is a narrow chink—the olfactory sulcus. Posterior Rhinoscopy.—Examination of the posterior nares and naso- pharynx is frequently attended with difficulty. The patient is directed to breathe through the nose, the tongue is depressed with a spatula, and a small-sized laryngeal mirror, comfortably warmed and with its reflecting surface turned upwards, is carefully introduced behind the soft palate. When a good examination of the naso-pharynx is obtained, the following parts may be seen reflected in the mirror : the posterior surface of the uvula and soft palate, and above them, in the mesial plane, the posterior free edge of the septum nasi. On each side of the septum the apertures of the posterior nares, in which may be seen the upper part of the posterior end of the inferior turbinal, the middle meatus, the posterior end of the middle turbinal, the superior meatus, and occasion- ally a portion of the superior turbinal. On the lateral wall of the naso- pharynx the Eustachian opening and cushion can be seen, while by tilting the mirror backwards the vault of the naso-pharynx can be inspected. Digital examination of the naso-pharynx may be required, especially in children. The examiner passes his left arm and hand round the back of the child’s head, and with one of his fingers presses the cheek inwards between the jaws. His right forefinger is carried along the dorsum of the tongue, passed up behind the soft palate, and a rapid examination made of the post-nasal space. Cardinal Symptoms of Nasal Affections. — The chief symptoms of nasal disease are : nasal obstruction, nasal dis- charge, anomalies of smell and taste, and certain reflex phenomena. Nasal Obstruction.—This may be partial or complete, inter- mittent or constant, and may be the cause of such symptoms as alteration in the tone of the voice, catarrh of the respiratory passages, snoring, cough, headache, inability to concentrate the attention, alteration in the physiognomy, or deformity of the chest. The half-open mouth, drooping jaw, lengthened appearance of the face, narrow nostrils, and vacant expression are charac- teristic signs of nasal obstruction. Nasal obstruction may be due to intra-nasal or to post-nasal (naso-pharyngeal) causes. Amongst the former may be noted as the more common, erectile swelling and hypertrophy of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bones, and nasal polypi growing from the middle turbinal and middle