HERNIA. 360 sac is seriously impeded. The passage of the intestinal contents along the loop of bowel contained in the sac is also obstructed. It may occur on the first occasion on which the intestine is pro- truded from the abdomen, or it may occur in hernias of many years’ standing. It is, on the whole, less likely to occur in large hernise in which the canal is widely dilated than in small ones. The occurrence of strangulation involves serious risk to life, because of the associated obstruction of the bowels and the risk of septic complications. Mechanism of Strangulation.—Strangulation may be said to ensue when there is such a disproportion between the calibre of the neck of the sac and the bulk of the structures passing through it that the blood-supply of the contents is impeded. This may be brought about by an addition being made to the contents of the hernia, for example, by a sudden exertion on the part of the patient forcing down an extra loop of intestine through the hernial aperture. Of the structures passing through the neck of the sac the bowel and the veins of the mesentery suffer most. The pathological changes vary according to the tightness and duration of the strangulation. The initial changes in the bowel are the result of mechanical interference with the circulation, while the later and more serious effects depend upon bacterial invasion of its coats. The usual effects of venous congestion are well marked : the bowel becomes turgid, swollen and firm in consistence; its colour varies from a livid blue to a claret or even black colour. The dark colour is due chiefly to extravasation of blood into the coats of the bowel. The strangulated lo'op becomes distended with gas. Fluid exudes into the sac and soon becomes blood-stained. The peritoneum of the sac and of its contents for a time retains its shining lustre. When the strangulated loop is liberated from the neck of the sac it commonly presents at one or at both ends a deep groove— the constriction groove. If an opening is made into the bowel, the contents are found to be stained with blood as a result of haemorrhage from the congested mucous membrane. The further changes are due to bacterial infection of the coats of the bowel, and partake of the characters of inflammation or of gangrene, or of a combination of these. When inflammation predominates, the usual phenomena of peritonitis are present: the serous surface of the bowel and sac becomes opaque and covered with fibrinous lymph, while the fluid in the sac becomes turbid. When gangrene ensues, the bowel loses its natural lustre and firm consistence; it becomes flaccid and sodden like wet blotting-