THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 316 region and in the inguinal canal, and which will be described with hernia. The fibroma grows from the fascial coverings of the muscles and from the aponeuroses of the abdominal wall. At first small, hard and insensitive, they may after a long period of slow growth become more active and attain a considerable size. They are met with chiefly in women who have borne children. Transitional forms between fibroma and sarcoma are not un- common, and they may recur after removal—the “recurrent fibroid of Paget.” On examination it is found that the tumour moves with the wall and not with the contents of the abdomen, and that it does not change its position with alterations in the position of the patient. Treatment.—The tumour should be freely excised, a zone of muscle fibres and aponeurosis in contact with its capsule being removed at the same time. If the parietal peritoneum is adherent to the growth, the adherent portion must also be resected. In order to prevent a ventral hernia, the gap in the abdominal wall is carefully sutured, the patient is kept recum- bent for from four to six weeks, and must wear a belt or bandage on resuming the erect posture. Affections of the Umbilicus. Persistence of the Vitelline Duct. — Patent Meckel’s Diverticulum.—The vitelline duct—the channel of communica- tion between the intestine and the yolk sac—passes from the ileum a little above the ileo-csecal valve to the umbilicus, and is usually obliterated at the eighth week of intra-uterine life. In its persistent tubular form it is known as a Meckel’s diverticulum (Fig. 92). When the stump of the umbilical cord separates after birth the duct may come to open on the surface, constituting a fistula which discharges mucus, and in rare instances faecal matter. The walls of the duct may be prolapsed through the umbilicus, and they are sometimes followed by protrusion of the intestine, which forms a projecting tumour, and by interfering with the passage of the intestinal contents may result in obstruction of the bowels. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is obliterated while the portion in the umbilical cord remains patent, the separation of the stump of the cord may be followed by pro- trusion of the mucous membrane and the gradual formation of a raspberry-like tumour known as an entero-teratoma.