FEMORAL HERNIA. 375 Treatment.—Wlien the child is under a year old, the mother or nurse is shown how to reduce the hernia, and is directed to do so whenever she notices it down. In children over a year the hernia must either be controlled by means of a spring truss covered by india-rubber, or cured by operation. If there is any difficulty in the use of the truss, or if the hernia continues to come down whenever the truss is left off, operation should be had recourse to. The essential step of the operation consists in the isolation and removal of the patent funicular process, its neck being ligatured at the level of the internal ring. According to the patency of the canal, one or more sutures may be passed through the internal pillar and conjoined tendon on the inner side, and Poupart’s ligament on the outer side, so as to approximate these structures. In children strangulation is usually a gradual process, and there is little risk of the rapid occurrence of gangrene. There is therefore less urgency for operation than in adults. The foot of the bed should be well raised, and a pad of wool and spica bandage applied over the swelling in order to facilitate reduction. It is a remarkable fact that in children herniotomy for strangulation is more frequently called for during the early months of childhood, the greatest number of operations having been performed during the first three months of life. Tuberculosis of the hernial sac is not uncommonly met with in children in association with tuberculous ascites. Femoral Hernia. A femoral or crural hernia escapes from the abdomen at the crural ring, passes down the crural canal, and emerges through the saphenous opening in the thigh. Next to inguinal, it is the commonest form of hernia. It is more often met with in the female, probably because the pelvis is wider, the crural ring larger, and Gimbernat’s ligament less strongly developed than in the male. Femoral hernia is almost invariably acquired, and is rarely met with under the age of twenty, because there is practically no crural ring or canal until the pelvis is fully developed. It is most common in women who have borne children. It is probable that in some cases a rapid loss of fat may tend to the production of a femoral protrusion, owing to the removal of some of the material which helps to support the abdominal aspect of the crural ring. Surgical Anatomy.—The crural ring is represented on the