559 HYDRONEPHROSIS. flank, and can be palpated bimanually; the colon lies in front of it, and the dulness over the cyst is continuous with that of the liver. A very large tumour bulges the ribs outwards, fills up one side of the abdomen, and, by extending down to the pelvis, may simulate an ovarian cyst. When the cyst fills up the greater part of the belly, as it sometimes does in children, it may simulate a tuberculous ascites. In intermittent hydronephrosis, such, for example, as that associated with abnormal renal mobility, there are attacks of pain and sickness like those produced by calculus, and from the fact that these attacks may be attended with marked tenderness of the kidney and with haematuria, the differential diagnosis may be difficult. During the attack, while the pelvis is tempor- arily closed, the kidney is congested, and bleeding may take place into the sac. When the attack is over and the occlusion relieved, the blood-stained contents of the sac pass down into the bladder and haematuria results. If the attacks recur with great frequency haematuria may be more or less constant- in the early stages of intermittent hydronephrosis, the kidney returns to its normal size after the occlusion is relieved, and it is sometimes observed during the attack that the swelling suddenly disappears on manipulation, the kink being undone and the urine passing on. In the later stages the elastic recoil of the pelvis is lost and the organ remains enlarged, although it may not be easily palpable owing to the slackness of the cyst wall, and the attacks of pain may entirely disappear. If hydronephrosis becomes the seat of septic infection, suppuration occurs in the kidney, leading to one form of pyonephrosis. Differential Diagnosis.—The painful attacks met with in early cases of intermittent hydronephrosis may be confused with renal or biliary colic. The large palpable cyst of advanced hydronephrosis may be mistaken for a hydatid or other solitary cyst of the kidney, an ovarian cyst, a cyst of the pancreas, an encysted tuberculous ascites, or a retro-peritoneal lipoma. In open hydronephrosis it is sometimes observed that an alteration in the size of the cyst is accompanied by a corresponding alteration in the amount of urine. Valuable information is obtained by catheterising the ureters; the urine from the affected kidney shows a diminished degree of concentration. The X-rays may show whether or not the hydronephrosis is due to stone. Ex- ploratory incision remains the final appeal in difficult cases. Prognosis.—If the cause of the retention is capable of being removed, the kidney recovers its functions, and may return to