THE URINARY BLADDER, 600 may relieve the symptoms. In some cases the bladder should be opened above the pubes, the diseased mucous membrane removed with the scissors or sharp spoon, and the raw surface cauterised. Pericystitis.—Inflammation of the peri-vesical cellular tissue is a localised form of pelvic cellulitis, which may result by lymphatic extension from lesions of, the bladder or of neighbouring organs, such as the uterus, Fallopian tube or vermiform appendix. The inflammation may resolve with the formation of adhesions and fixation of the organ—a common result of chronic cystitis— or may be suppurative, resulting in the formation of one or more abscesses bounded by peri-vesical adhesions. Such abscesses are found chiefly on the posterior or lateral aspect of the organ, and may be discovered on bimanual examination ; they are liable to be overlooked, however, and to rupture into the bladder, and it may be also into the bowel, causing a recto-vesical fistula. Peri-vesical suppuration frequently follows on extra-peritoneal rupture of the bladder, and is then seated iu the space of Retzius in front of the bladder. The pus may burrow downwards into the pelvis or in an upward direction beneath the recti muscles, causing a brawny, painful swelling above the pubes simulating a distended bladder. The treatment consists in incision and drainage either above the pubes or through the perineum, along with measures directed to the lesion of the bladder or other organ with which the sup- puration is associated. Stone—Vesical Calculus. The general facts as to urinary lithiasis have been referred to in describing stone in the kidney. The same varieties of stone are met with in the bladder as in the kidney, but phosphatic con- cretions due to ammoniacal de- composition of the urine are more commonly met with in the bladder, and are much softer and more friable than phosphatic stones which have come down Fiu. 142.—Uric Stone, surface and from the kidney. As regards piofile view. their shape, in contrast to renal From Professor Annandale’s Collection.) calculi whic]l frequently present a triangular or branching formation in association with the form