444 THE INTESTINES. colon, and this is best effected by the use of enemata. The procedure is attended with considerable pain which may necessitate the administration of a general anaesthetic. It is also attended with some risk, for if fluid be rapidly poured into the already over-distended bowel, the latter may give way. If a general anaesthetic be employed, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position with the buttocks raised, and the sphincters having been dilated with the fingers, the faecal mass is softened with hot saline solution or olive oil run in through a funnel and soft rubber tube, like that used for washing out the stomach. The fingers, protected with rubber gloves, are the safest instruments to employ if the expulsive power of the bowel is in abeyance. The rectum having been emptied, saline fluid is allowed to run gently into the colon, and at the same time the abdomen is massaged with the object of exciting peristaltic movements. It is encouraging if large quantities of gas come away, with simultaneous diminution in the tension and prominence of the abdomen. The heart may require to be stimulated by strychnin and by saline infusion into the cellular tissue. We have observed the case of a middle-aged man, an alcoholic, who was sent into hospital on five occasions at intervals of from three to six months, each time critically ill with obstruction, which on four occasions was relieved by the above measures. On the last occasion the colon gave way during the process of irrigation, and he died within twelve hours. It need scarcely be added that, after the obstruction has been relieved, means should be taken to prevent a recurrence of the accumulation; chief reliance is to be placed on measures intended to restore peristalsis—such as massage and electricity to the abdomen, appropriate exercises and the administration of strychnin and belladonna, cascara, and other bowel tonics. Embolism and Thrombosis of the Mesenteric Blood- Vessels.—The lesions included under this head ])resent a close clinical resemblance to primary affections of the intestine, and may thus give rise to mistakes in diagnosis. In spite of the abundant blood - supply to the intestines and of the free anastomosis between the individual arterial branches in the mesentery, blocking of one or other of the main trunks, and especially of the superior mesenteric artery, leads to serious changes in the condition of the bowel supplied by it. If it is the artery that is blocked, these changes are of the nature of a haemorrhagic infarction, which is very liable to terminate in gangrene of the bowel. In embolism of one of the main arterial trunks there is