389 CHAPTER XXVI. THE STOMACH. Surgical anatomy — Methods of suture—Operations on the stomach— Injuries: Contusion; Rupture; Penetrating wounds; Effects of caustics; Foreign bodies in stomach—Ulcers of stomach and duo- denum : Surgical aspects; Operative treatment of uncomplicated ulcer; Complications of gastric ulcer: Haemorrhage; Perforation; Perigastric abscess and fistula; Perigastric adhesions; Effects of cicatricial contraction following gastric ulcer ; Stenosis of pylorus ; Hour-glass stomach—Tumours: Carcinoma ; Other tumours—Pyloric obstruction of infants — Gastroptosis — Dilatation of the stomach, gastrectasis. Surgical Anatomy.—The stomach normally occupies the left hypo- chondrium and the left part of the epigastrium, the cardiac orifice and fundus lying under the left vault of the. diaphragm, while the pylorus joins the duodenum under cover of the left lobe of the liver about one inch to the right of the middle line. The cardiac orifice is deeply placed, being about four inches from the surface behind the sternal end of the seventh left costal cartilage. In the female, as a result of tight lacing, the stomach is often displaced downwards and lies more vertically than normal. When the stomach is empty the muscular walls are contracted, and its long axis is nearly horizontal. When it is distended, both the cardiac and pyloric ends become enlarged and rounded, a distinct saccului—the antrum pylori—forming at the pyloric end. The viscus occupies a larger area of the left liypochondrium and epigastrium, and may even extend into the umbilical region. The whole organ becomes elongated and the pylorus is moved towards the right. As it distends, the long axis of the stomach becomes oblique from above, downwards, forwards, and to the right. The upper or anterior wall of the stomach lies under cover of the left lobe of the liver and left cupola of the diaphragm, and in contact with the anterior abdominal wall. As the stomach empties, it recedes from the anterior abdominal wall, and the transverse colon may pass upwards and come to lie in front of it. The lower or posterior surface rests upon the gastric surface of the spleen, the left kidney and supra-renal body, and the upper surface of the pancreas. Between these structures and the stomach is the lesser sac of the peritoneum. The lesser curvature of the stomach is attached to the liver by the gastro-liepatic or lesser omentum, between the layers of which run the coronary arteries. The greater