420 THE INTESTINES. the large intestine, on the other hand, vomiting is often late in appearing, is intermittent and scanty, and may occasionally be absent. Constitutional disturbance, in the shape of shock, is, on the whole, most marked in acute obstruction of the small intestine. Meteorism, as expressed by general distension of the abdomen, is on the whole more pronounced the lower in the intestine the obstruction is situated. Although it is by no means so easy to identify visibly dilated coils of intestine as might be supposed, it is sometimes possible from their situation and outline to form a reliable inference ; the transverse colon or sigmoid flexure may, for example, be thus recognised, while the small intestine may be identified by the ladder pattern of the abdomen. It is not safe to infer from the presence of visible moving coils of small intestine that the obstruction is situated in the small gut; we have observed such coils in cases of malignant stricture beyond the transverse colon. Information obtained by estimating the amount of fluid which can be intro- duced by the rectum is of little or no value in determining the seat of the obstruction, and may actually prove misleading. Particular Forms of Obstruction. Strangulated hernia is the commonest form of acute intestinal obstruction, and in all cases presenting the symptoms above described a systematic examination of the hernial openings accessible to the fingers should be made. It is quite possible for a patient to be ignorant of the existence of a hernia, especially when of small size and situated in the femoral or obturator region. Cases are occasionally met with in which a hernia is present, and yet there is some doubt as to whether or not it is the cause of obstruction. In such cases it is usually advisable to explore the hernia by operation before proceeding to open the abdomen. Internal Hernise.—Under this term are included such forms of hernia as do not protrude outside the cavity of the body. Several varieties are met with. In diaphragmatic hernia a portion of the abdominal contents, usually the stomach or colon, is thrust into the thorax through an opening in the diaphragm. The opening may be congenital or may result from rupture or wound of the diaphragm, and in either case it is usually situated on the left side. The existence of a hernial sac is quite ex- ceptional. The condition is rarely diagnosed by clinical methods. It is only remediable by operative measures, and the thoracic route affords the best access.