90 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. Clinical Features.—The clinical features of Pott’s disease vary so widely in different regions of the spine that it is necessary to consider each region separately. To avoid repeti- tion, however, certain general features of the disease may be first described. Pain.—In the earliest stages of the disease the patient complains of a feeling of tiredness, which prevents him walking far or remaining long in a standing position. Later there is a constant, dull, gnawing pain in the back, increased by any form of movement, particularly such as involves jarring or bending of the spine. If the patient is a child it is noticed that he ceases to play with his companions, and inclines to sit or lie about, usually assuming some peculiar attitude which tends to take the weight off the affected segment of the spine (Fig. 17). If he is going about, the pain increases as the day goes on, but may pass off during the night. Tenderness may be elicited on pressing over the spinous or transverse processes of the diseased vertebrae, or on making pressure in the long axis of the spine. These tests, however, are not of great diagnostic value, and they cause the patient unnecessary suffering. Pain referred to the area of distribution of the nerves emerging in relation to the diseased vertebrae is a common symptom. Rigidity.—The pain produced by movement of the diseased portion of the spine causes reflex contraction of the muscles passing over it, and the affected segment of the column is thus rendered rigid. If the palm of the hand be placed over the painful area while the patient attempts to make movements of stooping, nodding, or turning to the side, it is found that the vertebrae implicated move en bloc instead of gliding on one another. This rigidity of the diseased portion of the column and “ boarding ” of the muscles of the back is one of the earliest and most valuable diagnostic signs of Pott’s disease. Deformity.—The most common and characteristic deformity is an abnormal antero-posterior curvature, with its convexity backwards. The situation, extent, and acuteness of the bend vary with the region of the spine affected, the situation of the disease in the bone, and the number of vertebrae implicated. When the disease is in the interior of the bodies of one or two vertebrae, a short, sharp, angular deformity results ; when on the surface of several bones, a long, wide curvature. Lateral deviation is occasionally met with in the early stages of the disease as a result of unequal muscular contraction, and in the later stages from excessive destruction of one side of a vertebra, or from partial luxation between two diseased vertebra;.