PYOSALPINX. 493 abdominal ostium becomes occluded, either by peritoneal adhesions gluing together the fimbriae, or by swelling of the mucous membrane blocking the lumen. The uterine opening of the tube also becomes occluded, and the tube is thus converted into a closed cavity. As the tube distends with inflammatory products, it separates the two layers of the broad ligament and burrows between them, and at the same time it becomes elongated and tortuous, and its walls are thinned out. The inflammatory process spreads to the enveloping peritoneum, and adhesions form binding the distended tube to the ovary, the uterus, the vaginal vault, the rectum, and sometimes to the intestine. The condition may be unilateral, but'as a rule both tubes are affected, although to an unequal extent. The clinical features vary widely according to the stage of the disease and the nature of the infection. An acute stage is sometimes met with, particularly in cases due to puerperal infec- tion, and in those of gonorrhoeal origin. The onset is marked by a chill or rigor, the temperature rises to 102 -103° F., the pulse is small and rapid, and the patient extremely ill. She lies on her back with the legs drawn up, the abdominal muscles are rigid, and there is marked tenderness over the lower part of the abdomen—symptoms indicative of peritonitis. These acute symptoms may last for a week or ten days and then gradually subside, giving place to those which characterise the more chronic type of the disease. In the majority of cases, and particularly in those of gonor- rhoeal and tuberculous origin, the disease runs a chronic course from the outset. The patient complains of recurrent attacks of pain in the region of the ovaries, pain in the back, and a bearing- down sensation in the pelvis. There may be a slight rise of temperature (99°-101° F.) in the evening, and a corresponding acceleration of the pulse. There is pain on micturition and defecation, and the bowels are markedly constipated. Menstrua- tion is profuse, and there may be a persistent vaginal discharge. These attacks last for a week or ten days, and recur at irregular intervals. In the intervals between the attacks the patient is comparatively well, but she never quite regains the ground lost during the attack, and gradually becomes a confirmed invalid. Her attitude and gait are characteristic; she inclines the body forward, moves very cautiously, and to avoid jarring the pelvic viscera in making any sudden movement she presses firmly on the abdomen with her hands. On vaginal examination the uterus is found to be less movable than normal, and to the sides of the uterus irregular, elongated swellings, which are extremely