551 INJURIES. recurrent attacks of colic likely to be followed by hydronephrosis. In cases complicated with neurasthenia the operation is not only uncertain to cure the patient, but may prove a disappointment and do harm. The operation consists in exposing the kidney by the usual lumbar incision and protruding it from the wound ; chromic gut sutures are passed deeply through the capsule and parenchyma, after which the organ is replaced; the upper or anterior ends of the sutures are passed round the last rib, and the lower or posterior through the lumbar fascia and muscles, and are tied so as to anchor the kidney securely in its normal position. A drain is inserted at the lower angle of the wound, to prevent the accumulation of fluid between the kidney and the posterior abdominal wall. There are many other methods of performing the operation, but the one described has yielded the best results in our hands. In this and in other operations on the kidney, the organ is more easily protruded from the wound if the patient lies prone over an Edebohl’s cushion. Injuries.—Contusionand Rupture.—These injuries are much more frequent in men, not only because males are more exposed to severe forms of violence, but because in the adult female the kidney is protected by the greater projection of the iliac crest, the greater amount of perirenal fat, and also by the corset. When the violence is a blow or crush, it acts directly upon the kidney, or drives it against the lower ribs or the transverse processes of the first and second lumbar vertebrae. When a person falls from a height, the kidney is injured by the sudden concussion of the body or by its abrupt flexion. In some cases other viscera, such as the liver or spleen, are ruptured at the same time. Where bruising of the kidney follows on muscular effort or on comparatively slight forms of violence, the presump- tion is that the organ was previously the seat of organic disease. Morbid Anatomy.—In contusions the capsule and pelvis of the organ remain intact, and blood is extravasated into the peri- renal fat, or into the parenchyma, whence it passes down the urinary tubules into the pelvis. When the organ is ruptured there are one or more deep fissures passing through the capsule and parenchyma (Fig. 125 b), and often extending into the pelvis ; the organ may be completely torn across. In these injuries there is severe luemorrhage, the blood infiltrates the perirenal fat (Fig. 125 a), and may spread widely in the loose cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. If the ureter remains patent, the blood passes down into the bladder, which may become distended with clots. In children, because of the absence of perirenal fat, the