332 THE PERITONEUM. associated with tuberculous ulceration of the bowel and with pulmonary phthisis. The treatment in this group of cases is not hopeful, and is surrounded with difficulties. The operation of laparotomy may prove very difficult on account of the dense matting of the intestines to each other and to the abdominal wall, and misguided attempts to unravel the coils may result in tearing the fragile intestine and may bring about a faecal fistula. In more favourable cases the tuberculous infection is limited to the neighbourhood of the primary focus—an intestinal ulcer, a tuberculous appendix or Fallopian tube—which primary focus should be removed. After any laparotomy for peritoneal tuberculosis there is a risk of tuberculous infection of the scar, resulting in its breaking down into an ulcer, sometimes followed by a faecal fistula, or after healing by a ventral hernia. Actinomycosis of the peritoneum usually arises from pre- existing disease in the intestine, especially in the caecum. Large insensitive masses, consisting of coils of intestine, omentum and inflammatory exudation, form in the belly. The mass, which is at first hard, gradually softens, forming a chronic abscess, which bursts externally leading to the formation of tortuous discharging sinuses. The pus contains the characteristic fungous bodies. The disease tends to progress and to prove fatal. Treatment consists in the internal administration of iodides and the removal of the infected tissues with a sharp spoon. Peritoneal Adhesions and Bands.—Adhesions between ap- posed surfaces of peritoneum may result from any form of lesion within the abdomen. They result not only from affections which give rise to acute peritonitis, but also from those which pursue a chronic or latent course, such as gastric and intestinal ulcers, gall-stones, disease in the mesenteric glands, or tuberculous peritonitis. They also occur in relation to external hernia and after abdominal operations, especially those in which the peri- toneum has been roughly handled, or in which surfaces have been denuded of their serous covering. Adhesions are frequently reabsorbed. If they persist, they are liable to become elongated from being constantly dragged upon by the movement of the viscus to which they are attached, and to be moulded into a cord-like structure or “band” by the rolling movements of the intestines. A portion of adherent great omentum may be similarly elongated and moulded into a band. Bands consist of fibrous connective tissue invested by peritoneum, and they vary in thickness from that of thick catgut to that of the little finger. They vary also in