CARCINOMA. 301 usually several yellow spots scattered over it. These are due to fatty degeneration of the epithelial elements. Towards the periphery the tissue is softer, of a bluish or pinkish colour, and shows numerous minute hsemorrhagic points. Clinical Features.—This form of carcinoma is usually met with in women between the ages of forty and fifty, and it very often begins while the patient is still menstruating regularly. It sometimes occurs in patients below thirty. It is also occa- sionally met with in the male (Fig. 62). The pathological and clinical features of the disease are the same in both sexes. The most common site is the upper and outer quadrant of the breast, but it may occur in any part of the gland. It is seldom multiple or bilateral. In its early stages the con- dition is quite painless, and the existence of the tumour is usually discovered accidentally while the patient is bathing or hand- ling the breast. In some cases indrawing of the nipple or dimpling of the skin over the breast first attracts the patient’s atten- tion. As the disease pro- gresses, the patient experi- ences a dull, aching pain, with occasional sharp twinges shooting through towards the shoulder, up into the neck, or down the inner side of the arm. Still later the pain becomes severe and continuous, and by interfering with sleep wears out the patient’s strength. On palpation a more or less circumscribed and fairly well- defined tumour of stony hardness may be felt in the substance of the breast. Not being encapsulated, it cannot be moved apart from the breast. When firmly pressed against the chest wall with the flat of the hand, the tumour becomes more evident, and its stony hardness is fully appreciated. The skin over the growth may for a long time remain free, but, as the disease progresses, it becomes tacked down, and is later dimpled by contraction of the suspensory ligaments of Cooper. When the Fig. 62.—Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast in , a man eet. 50, with oedema of upper ex- tremity from enlarged axillary glands. (Mr. Scot-Skirving's case.)