5G0 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. the normal if any healthy parenchyma remains in the wall of the sac. The danger to life lies in the risk of septic infection, and of uraemia when the condition is bilateral. The determina- tion of the freezing-point of the blood is therefore of service in prognosis. Treatment.—Treatment is directed towards the removal of the obstacle to the outflow from the pelvis; this implies not only the removal of the primary cause, but of the secondary changes in the pelvis and ureter. Palliative Measures.—Tapping the distended pelvis may be of service by affording temporary relief in the painful crises of floating kidney, or where life is threatened by anuria in bilateral hydronephrosis. The trocar should be inserted at the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, midway between the last rib and the iliac crest. The procedure is free from danger if the contents of the sac are aseptic. Tapping and drainage is an extension of the above. A fine drainage tube is passed down the cannula, and is left in after withdrawing the latter; this procedure may be useful in affording a means of examination of the secretion of the two kidneys separately. Catheterisation of the ureter can only be curative in rare cases of kinking or stricture of the ureter. Curative Measures.—Having excluded such causes of hydro- nephrosis as may be found in the lower urinary organs and pelvic cavity, the kidney and upper end of the ureter should he exposed by the usual lumbar incision. It is only by this means that the factors concerned in the causation and perpetuation of the hydronephrosis can be discovered and dealt with. If the only cause be an abnormal mobility of the kidney, it may be possible, by means of nephropexy, to re-establish the outflow through the ureter. If, however, the kidney is not only movable, but also presents an irregular distension of the pelvis, or if the deviated ureter is fixed by adhesions, or its pelvic orifice is blocked by a valve, then the mere fixation of the organ cannot be expected to cure the hydronephrosis. If there is a valve-like septum between the pelvis and the ureter (Fig. 127), it must be got rid of by the procedure intro- duced by Fenger in 1892. The pelvis is opened sufficiently to give a good view of its interior, the valve is divided longitu- dinally and then stitched at right angles, or the opening may be kept patent by inserting a catheter. If, on the other hand, the upper end of the ureter is twisted and buried in adhesions, it should be separated from the pelvis and inserted through a fresh opening at the most depending point of the sac—uretero-pyelo-