599 TUBERCULOUS CYSTITIS. nearly always secondary to tubercle of the kidney or of the seminal vesicle, prostate, and epididymis. From the kidney— descending infection—the bacilli pass by way of the lymphatics of the renal pelvis and ureter to those in the submucous coat of the trigone and neck of the bladder, and the disease commences in the vicinity of the orifice of the ureter on the same side. From the seminal vesicle or prostate—ascending infection—the disease spreads by direct continuity, or by the lymphatics, to the submucous coat, and finally to the mucous membrane in the region of the trigone. The mucous membrane presents tuber- culous nodules and superficial ulcers with ragged edges, at first in the region of the trigone, but more widely spread as the disease progresses. The tuberculous infection is soon complicated with pyogenic organisms, and septic cystitis with or without alkaline decomposition of the urine is liable to occur. In consequence of the excessive irritability of the bladder the walls become indur- ated and contracted, and the capacity of the organ greatly diminished. The clinical features are those of cystitis, developing Avitli- out apparent cause in a young adult, usually of the male sex, avIio is already the subject of tuberculous disease in the kidney, prostate, seminal vesicle or epididymis. The cystitis is of an aggravated type and is particularly intractable. The pain on micturition is referred to the distal end of the urethra. There is usually a small quantity of blood in the urine at the end of micturition, and the amount is not influenced by rest. Bacilli are found Avith difficulty, even after centrifuging the urine. The diagnosis is greatly aided by the recognition of tubercle in the kidney, seminal vesicle, or prostate. The cystoscope is of value in the early stages ; later it can scarcely be used because of the extreme irritability and the contracted state of the bladder. In the female direct examination Avith a Kelly’s speculum is more generally applicable. Treatment.—As vesical tuberculosis is always a secondary condition, its radical treatment involves the removal of the primary focus of infection. If this be done, or if the primary disease become arrested, the bladder trouble is highly amenable to treatment, and it may even undergo spontaneous cure. The general dietetic and hygienic treatment for tuberculosis should be carried out, and marked benefit usually folloAvs treatment in the open air. The local measures employed in septic cystitis are of little or no value, and irrigation as a rule does more harm than good. If the urine is ammoniacal the injection of two or three ounces of boracic or corrosive sublimate lotion (1 in 10,000)