THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 570 have passed blood or sand are to be accepted with caution, as they are apt to be deceived by the high colour of the urine and the deposit of urates on standing. The demonstration of the concretions by the Rongten rays is to be regarded as the only certain clinical means of recognising renal calculus. The procedure is best carried out after the method described by Kummell of Hamburg. The bowels having been cleared out, the patient is placed in the dorsal position, with the thighs acutely flexed and the head bent forwards, so that the loin lies evenly on the sensitive plate. A trial radiogram is taken by means of a soft tube placed at the maximum distance from the plate, and if a suspicious shadow is found on the negative its position is accurately marked on the back of the patient, and the corresponding point on the anterior abdominal wall determined. A second radiogram is then taken with the tube immediately over this point, while the surrounding parts are protected by a leaden shield as large as a dinner plate; the tube is to be as close to the body as possible, so as to render, by magnification, even small stones more easily recognisable. In doubtful cases the procedure may require to be repeated. The shadow of a stone remains constant both in its contour and in its position; it is most often found a little below the twelfth rib, and about an inch distant from the second lumbar vertebra, in the area corresponding to the pelvis of the kidney. Kummell has shown that by the above method any stone, whether in the kidney or ureter, may be demonstrated by the X-rays; and conversely, that stone may be excluded with equal certainty if repeated examinations yield a negative result. Information is also gained as to the exact situation of the stone, its size and shape, and whether there is more than one—all points of import- ance in planning an operation. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stone.—Short of operation, treatment is directed chiefly towards diluting the urine by increasing its amount; the patient should take large quantities of bland fluids, of which the best is hot water, or such mineral waters as those of Contrexeville or Wildungen. Urotropin is useful in preventing the onset of septic complications. Renal colic is to be relieved by hot local applications or hot baths, and by large doses of belladonna, hypodermic injections of morphin, or the inhalation of chloroform. Inasmuch as there is little or no immediate danger to life in uncomplicated renal calculus, there is great difference of opinion as to the advisability of operating for the removal of the stone. Operation is indicated in cases with severe recurrent colic, or