THE STOMACH. 402 The stomach contents which escape from the perforation are therefore limited to its immediate vicinity, and set up a localised suppurative inflammation. This occurs most frequently in ulcers situated on the lesser curvature and towards the cardiac end of the stomach, and the resulting abscess forms below the left vault of the diaphragm, constituting one variety of subphrenic abscess. Ulcers on the posterior Avail may give rise to a localised abscess in the lesser peritoneal sac, in the pancreas, or in the retro- peritoneal tissue, according to the disposition of the adhesions. When a duodenal ulcer perforates amongst adhesions, the abscess usually extends under the vault of the diaphragm. When a perigastric abscess forms in connection with an ulcer on the anterior wall of the stomach, it usually projects below the costal margin in the left hypochondrium, or in the loin. When it bursts, it is liable to be followed by the formation of a gastric fistula, from which the stomach contents escape externally. The skin around the orifice of the fistula is irritated, and may undergo partial digestion. The patient emaciates from loss of nutriment. The abscess should be thoroughly drained, and if the fistula be small, it may heal spontaneously if the patient be fed for a few days entirely by the rectum. If it persist, the abdomen should be opened, the ulcer exposed and excised, and the stomach securely closed. Fistulous communications occasionally form between the stomach and some part of the intestine, particularly the colon. The stools contain undigested food, and the patient complains of foetid eructations and of vomiting of scybalous matter. This condition is treated by exposing the viscera, separating them by dissection, and closing the respective apertures by sutures. Perigastric Adhesions.—In many cases adhesions between the stomach and surrounding parts give rise to no symptoms. In other cases, by fixing some part of the stomach and so disturbing its motor functions, or by causing kinking of the pylorus, they interfere Avith the onward passage of the gastric contents, and so lead to dilatation. The patient complains of a dragging pain in the region of the stomach, and of a sense of discomfort after a full meal. These symptoms are aggravated by exertion, but are relieved by lying down or by wearing a tight belt. Sometimes there are symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation, with vomiting after food. When the anterior wall of the stomach is fixed by dense adhesions to the parietal peritoneum, a distinct tumour may be palpable in the epigastric region. In mild cases relief may be obtained by restricting the diet,