234 THE THYROID GLAND (esophagus, and large blood-vessels, instead of displacing them as in other forms of goitre. Fixation of the swelling and marked enlargement of the lymphatic glands are characteristic of these growths. There is severe lancinating pain in the swelling, diffi- culty in swallowing, and severe dyspnoea, which interferes with sleep and is accompanied by constant hawking up of mucus from the air-passages. It usually proves fatal within six months. Sarcoma is less common, and usually affects one lobe only, forming a large, soft tumour, which grows with great rapidity. It gives rise to the same symptoms as carcinoma. Metastasis to other parts, particularly the lungs, the mediastina and the bones, is common in both forms of malignant goitre. Treatment.—Except in very early cases the complete extirpation of a malignant goitre is not to be at- tempted, as it usually involves the removal of a portion of the trachea or oesophagus, and the operation very frequently proves fatal. Opera- tive interference in the form of tracheotomy is often called for, however, for the relief of respiratory embarrassment. The opera- tion is one of considerable difficulty on account of the depth of the trachea from the surface, and in some . t Fig. 55.—Exophthalmic Goitre in a cases it is necessary to woman, ait. 33., enucleate the portion of the tumour overlying the trachea before a tube can be introduced. Haemorrhage may be avoided by dividing the tissues with the Paquelin cautery. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Graves’ Disease or Basedoiv’s Disease. —This is essentially a medical affection, and in most cases is treated by medical measures. Among the more prominent symptoms are palpitation and irregular action of the heart, throbbing of the arteries of the head and neck, functional cardiac murmurs, anaemia, and excessive nervous excitability. The eyes are staring, the eyeballs are usually protruded from the orbit, and wffien the patient looks from a higher to a lower object the upper lids lag behind the