406 THE STOMACH. exertion. Pain or discomfort after food is usually complained of, especially when the cancer involves the pyloric orifice, and vomiting of food, sometimes mixed with altered blood, is frequently observed. Free hydrochloric acid is absent from the contents of the stomach, and for the purpose of examination, these should be drawn off with the stomach tube after a test meal of bread and tea; lactic and butyric acids make their appearance when fermentation changes have occurred. There is usually marked leucocytosis. The presence of a palpable tumour in the epigastric region is exceptional, and should not be relied upon for diagnostic purposes. In cases of pyloric cancer the stomach is usually dilated, and the characteristic symptoms of gastric stasis are present. Inflation of the stomach may demonstrate the enlargement, and may render evident an otherwise impalpable swelling. The tumour is more frequently palpable when it occupies the body of the stomach, and particularly when situated on the anterior wall. In such cases the swelling may be so circum- scribed, firm and mobile as to be mistaken for a floating kidney or an enlarged and movable spleen. Tumours of the cardiac end are quite beyond the reach of palpation from without, and the stomach is usually small and atrophied. The symptoms resemble those of cancer of the oesophagus, the most prominent being dysphagia. In cases of “ ulcer-cancer ” pain is a fairly constant and early symptom, and free hydrochloric acid not only is present in the gastric contents, but may be in excess. Tumours of the stomach have to be diagnosed from tumours of the colon, the omentum, the gall-bladder, the liver, the pancreas and the abdominal wall. Also from swellings result- ing from perigastric adhesions, and from a floating kidney or spleen. In many cases it is only by performing an exploratory laparotomy that the diagnosis can be made certain. This operation should only be performed when there is reason to expect that the* tumour is removable, or that a palliative operation will relieve the symptoms, and when the general condition of the patient is such as to warrant the more serious operation being attempted—that is to say, it should not be performed merely for purposes of diagnosis. Treatment.—Complete excision of the tumour and of the infected lymphatic glands is the only means of curing the disease. In many cases it is only after the tumour and its surroundings have been exposed by laparotomy that it is possible to say whether or not the radical operation is feasible.