496 PELVIC SWELLINGS IN THE FEMALE. some cases the soft tissues are impregnated with lime salts (ilithopcedion), in others they become converted into adipocere (ilipopcedion). The introduction of septic infection leads to the formation of a pelvic abscess, which may burst externally, or into any of the adjacent viscera—bladder, rectum, uterus or vagina, the discharge containing fragments of foetal bones. Less frequently the foetus survives, and the pregnancy goes on, sometimes even to full term. Clinical Features.—Ectopic gestation may occur at any time during the childbearing period, and it is usually the case that several years have elapsed since the last normal pregnancy. There is often a history of previous tubal disease, although this is usually quiescent, and the patient is apparently in good health at the time the abnormal impregnation occurs. In some cases the ordinary general symptoms of pregnancy are present, but in others the patient is not aware that she is pregnant. It often happens that the patient misses one or two periods, and then suffers from irregular, intermittent haemorrhages, the blood being thick, dark in colour, and moderate in amount, although floodings are not uncommon (Halliday Croom). The uterine decidual membrane may be thrown off during the early weeks, either in the form of a complete cast of the interior of the uterus or in shreds mixed with the blood. This, when present, is a valuable diagnostic sign. The external genitalia present the ordinary signs of pregnancy; the uterus is enlarged to about the size of a two months’ pregnancy, soft and globular, and appears to be displaced slightly to one side by a tense, elastic, and fluctuating swelling in which pulsating vessels may be felt. This swelling, which is the gestation sac, is ovoid, and is situated to one side of the uterus, and as it increases in size becomes fixed and very tender on palpation, and the seat of a dull, aching pain. If the pregnancy continues to develop, the abdomen increases in size, the foetus can be distinctly felt through the parietes, and foetal'heart sounds may be heard. Before the occurrence of rupture the differential diagnosis is often extremely difficult, and in considering it the following conditions are to be borne in mind :—Pregnancy in the rudi- mentary horn of a bicornate uterus, retroflexion or anteflexion of a gravid uterus, ovarian or fibroid tumours complicating ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy, pyosalpinx, and tumours of the broad ligament. An ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy or abortion may be mistaken for an ectopic gestation, and it is to be remembered that the two conditions may coexist. The diagnosis is often aided by the administration of a general