THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 682 scrotum supported on a pillow placed between the thighs. Next day the scrotum is usually swollen, hot and painful, being dis- tended with the exudate induced by the iodine. Under lead and opium fomentations this swelling gradually subsides, and the patient is able to get out of bed in from seven to ten days. The fluid has usually entirely disappeared by the end of a month. Some surgeons prefer to inject about a dram of pure carbolic acid liquefied in glycerine. It is said to be as efficacious as iodine and less painful. Operative Treatment. — Incision and drainage or partial excision of the tunica vaginalis is indicated in large hydroceles with thickened or calcified walls, in cases where loose or pedun- culated bodies are present, where there is reason to believe that the hydrocele communicates with the peritoneal cavity or with the sac of a hernia, and in cases which have resisted other methods of treatment. Incision ancl Drainage. — This method is best adapted to cases in which the walls of the hydrocele are markedly thick- ened. An incision about two inches long is made on the anterior aspect of the scrotum towards the lower end of the swelling. The parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis is stitched to the edges of the skin incision, and the cavity packed with iodoform gauze, or drained by means of a tube. Before the drain is introduced, the surface of the sac may be swabbed over with pure carbolic acid, iodine, or other irritant. The cavity is usually obliterated by granulation in from two to three weeks. Partial Excision of the Tunica Vaginalis. — The incision usually employed in this operation is the same as that just described. The parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis is separated from the scrotum, and as much of it as possible clipped away with scissors. The wound is then closed, a drainage tube being left in at the lowest part. Owing to the difficulty of keeping scrotal wounds aseptic, we prefer one or other of the following operations which we have employed for several years. A trans- verse incision is made over the external abdominal ring, exposing the cord. The upper end of the hydrocele is cleared and having been made to project towards the wound is opened and emptied. The collapsed sac, together with the testis, is then withdrawn from the scrotum, and the whole of the parietal layer either cut away with scissors, or turned inside out, the edges of the sac in the latter case being sutured along the back of the epididymis and testis with catgut. All bleeding points are secured with ligatures, and the testis restored to the scrotum. A small