554 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Treatment.—In cases seen soon after tire injury, attention is directed to the relief of urgent symptoms—pain, shock, and haemorrhage. In slight cases the patient is merely confined to bed, and a large mass of wool is retained over the loin by a firm flannel bandage, the diet is restricted to fluids, and urotropin is given to diminish the tendency to septic changes. In severe cases the question of operative interference must be considered without delay. The indications demanding it are evidence of increasing loss of blood, whether external or internal, rapid increase of the swelling in the loin, or marked diminution in the amount of urine. The objects aimed at are to arrest the haemorrhage, to afford a free outlet for the perirenal collection of blood and urine, to relieve the pressure which may be inter- fering with the function of the kidney, and to anticipate and prevent septic changes. The kidney region must be freely opened up by the usual lumbar incision. If bleeding is still going on it must be arrested, if necessary by compression of the vessels at the hilum. If the organ is deeply ruptured but still viable, the rupture is closed with deep catgut sutures or packed with gauze. Completely detached portions are removed. If the kidney is crushed to a pulp, if the main vessels are ruptured, or if the ureter is torn across, the entire organ is removed—primary nephrectomy. If the bladder is distended with clots and micturition seriously interfered with, it should be emptied by means of the litholapaxy evacuator, and, if this fails, it should be opened from the perineum and a large drainage tube introduced, otherwise septic cystitis and ascending infection of the kidneys may supervene. If prolonged shock and symptoms of haemorrhage point to tear- ing of the peritoneum over the kidney, the abdomen must be opened from the front, the blood removed, and the kidney dealt with as the injury demands. In many cases there is no indication for immediate operation. The later conditions which necessitate interference are the occur- rence of septic changes as shown by increase in the lumbar swelling, rigors, fever, and sweating. The swelling is then freely incised from the loin and drained. Whether or not the kidney is removed—secondary nephrectomy—will depend, not only on the condition of the affected kidney, but also on-that of the opposite side. Open wounds of the kidney are usually the result of stabs or gunshot injuries. The situation and direction of the external wound may suggest that the kidney has been injured, and the suspicion is confirmed if blood appears in the urine. Unless