621 ENLARGEMENT. may pass the sphincter of the membranous urethra and escape by the meatus, sometimes in such quantity as to saturate the clothing; more frequently it passes back into the bladder and mixes with the urine. If there is much bleeding all the urine may be coloured and contain numerous clots; in moderate haemorrhage the first portion is bloody, the greater part of the stream is only faintly tinged, and, lastly, when the bladder is nearly empty, it is again bloody as a result of the contraction of the neck of the bladder upon the congested prostate. The patient is often relieved by the haemorrhage, and the prostate may afterwards be observed to have diminished in size. Septic infection of the bladder also may occur at any stage, but is most frequent when there is stagnation of urine in a pouched bladder which is no longer capable of emptying itself. Although it usually follows the use of a catheter, it may develop apart from this. The phenomena may be those of acute cystitis ; more commonly they are of the chronic variety, the chief feature being the appearance of pus in the last portion of urine passed. The urine may then decompose and lead to stone, and, if the patient live long enough, the infection ascends to the kidneys, and he succumbs to a combination of urinary and septic poisoning. The diagnosis of enlarged prostate is usually easy from the age of the patient, his urinary history, and the condition of the oi’gan as felt by the rectum. It should be noted that although the prostate be but little enlarged towards the rectum, an intra- vesical projection may cause marked urinary symptoms. In the majority of cases the prostate is felt as a spherical swelling immediately behind the pubic arch. It varies in consistence, and may be firm and fibrous, or elastic and yielding, according to the amount of blood and soft glandular tissue. If a catheter is passed, difficulty may be met with in entering the bladder, and the instrument passes beyond the normal length of the urethra before the urine flows. The cystoscope is of service in demonstrating the conditions within the bladder, but it should only be used as an immediate preliminary to operation. Cancer of the prostate can usually be distinguished by the hardness of the organ as felt by the rectum, the irregularity of the enlargement, the bossing of its surface, and by the fact that there is often hemorrhage or a discharge of blood-stained mucus from the urethra, although no instrument has been passed. Treatment.—In the early stages attended with frequency of micturition, the patient is given directions to have the bowels emptied regularly, to avoid alcohol, red and spiced meats, ex-