HERNIA. 376 abdominal aspect by a slight depression, and is closed by a specialised portion of the extra-peritoneal tissue containing a lymphatic gland, and known as the septum crurale. The ring is bounded in front by the superficial and deep crural arches; behind by the pubic bone covered by the pectineus muscle and fascia; to the outer side by the partition of the crural sheath which separates the ring from the common femoral vein ; and to the inner side by Gimbernat’s ligament. The deep epigastric artery, in its course inwards from the external iliac, passes close to the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and gives off its pubic branch, which runs transversely inwards to Gim- bernat’s ligament to anasto- mose with the pubic branch of the obturator. An en- largement of this anastom osis constitutes an “ aberrant ob- turator,” the obturator aris- ing by a common trunk with the epigastric. When it curves round the inner side of the ring along the free margin of Gimbernat’s liga- ment, it is liable to be wounded in the operation of herniotomy. The crural canal is about half an inch in length. In front of it the upper margin of the saphenous opening arches inwards to join Poupart’s and Gimbernat’s ligaments. That portion of the upper edge lying internal to the femoral vein is known as the femoral, or Hey’s, ligament. The upper part of the pectineal fascia is strengthened by a tough band of fibrous tissue, known as Cooper’s ligament. A hernia passing along the canal at first descends vertically, but on reaching the saphenous opening it bulges forwards, and tends to enlarge in an upward and outward direction, working upwards over Poupart’s ligament. Large hernias may extend down the thigh. The coverings of a femoral hernia, from without inwards, are : the integument, including the cribriform fascia, the femoral sheath representing the transversalis fascia, the extra-peritoneal tissue and septum crurale, and the peritoneum. In the case of Fig. 73.—Femoral Hernia in man, set. 46.