394 THE STOMACH. when the stomach is full at the time of the accident. In most cases the liver or spleen is ruptured at the same time, and the patient shows signs of internal haemorrhage. Severe bleeding may also occur from rupture of large vessels in the wall of the stomach or omentum. Treatment.—Means should be taken to counteract shock by stimulant enemata, hypodermic injection of strychnin, and external warmth. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, and if a rent is found in the stomach it is closed by a double row' of sutures. If the soiled area of peritoneum is limited to the region of the tear, gentle sponging with sterile normal salt solution is sufficient, but if the stomach contents have been widely disseminated, it is necessary to irrigate the whole peritoneal cavity with large quantities of fluid. In some cases the only hope of thorough purification lies in eviscerating the intestines, and carefully irrigating each coil. An additional opening above the pubes is useful in enabling the pouch of Douglas and the pelvic cavity to be thoroughly irrigated and drained. Penetrating Wounds.—The stomach may be perforated by any sharp object, such as a knife blade or a spike, thrust through the abdominal wall, or by a bullet. Except when produced by a high-velocity bullet, the wound in the stomach is usually sufficiently large to permit of the escape of gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity, and not infrequently there is internal haemorrhage from injury to the vessels of the stomach wall. If the penetrating body pass through the abdominal wall obliquely, the wound in the parietes may be valvular, and its external aperture may not lie opposite the level of the stomach, and so the existence of a gastric lesion may not be suspected. As there is comparatively little shock at the time of the injury, the immediate symptoms do not as a rule cause alarm, and it may be some hours before the gravity of the condition becomes manifest by the onset of symptoms of perforation-peritonitis. Occasionally the stomach is perforated from within by sharp bodies passed along the oesophagus, by “ sword swallowers ” for example, or by the unskilful passage of bougies. Treatment.—In civil practice the invariable rule is to explore, and, if necessary, to enlarge the abdominal wound, or, it may be, even to make a fresh incision in order to ascertain the condition of the stomach and adjacent viscera. If a perforation is found, its edges, if damaged, should be pared with scissors, and, before it is closed by sutures, the interior of the stomach and its posterior wall should be examined for further injuries.