TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. 331 The wound may then be closed with sutures or the cavity may be packed and drained; in the latter case a discharging sinus results and may persist indefinitely. If the peritoneal cavity be opened outside the limits of the tuberculous collection, it is necessary to differentiate this from a cystic ovarian tumour. In the former there are extensive adhesions to adjacent structures, while in the latter some part of the wall will present the smooth, shining surface of a cyst. In doubtful cases the diagnosis is to be cleared up by micro- scopical examination. The purulent form of tuberculous peritonitis—or cold abscess of the belly—is rare, and is met with chiefly in female children. The illness runs a somewhat rapid course, emaciation is very pronounced, there is tenderness of the belly, and the temperature curve is of the hectic type. If left to nature, the abscess may reach the surface and rupture at the umbilicus. There should be no delay in performing laparotomy. The fluid resembles green pea-soup, and escapes in enormous quantity. No tubercles are felt on introducing the finger; the viscera are covered over by a uniform layer of gelatinous exudation. Although the prognosis is less favourable in purulent than in ascitic cases, we have observed remarkably rapid improvement and complete recovery. In the dry forms of peritoneal tuberculosis associated with the formation of adhesions and matting of viscera the abdomen is only moderately distended, and pain and tenderness are but little marked. In percussion there are irregular areas of dulness and resonance; and on palpation there is either a general feeling of increased resistance, amounting to doughiness, or else hard, irregular and nodular masses, or atypical thickenings are felt. In some cases a sausage-shaped mass—the thickened and crumpled omentum—may be palpated running transversely across the abdomen about the level of the umbilicus. Fluid may collect in the spaces between adhesions, but it is small in quantity and does not yield fluctuation, nor does it change its position with the movements of the patient. On rectal examination it may be possible to feel scattered nodules in the peritoneum, or a prominent swelling occupying the pouch of Douglas consisting of adherent coils of bowel. The prognosis is grave in this form of peritoneal tuberculosis, not only because there is little tendency to spontane- ous recovery, but also because it is liable to be attended with various complications, such as abscess formation with rupture at the umbilicus or in the ileo-crecal region, sometimes followed by a ftecal fistula, or by the sudden or gradual development of intestinal obstruction. These graver cases are frequently