COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 23 In the first instance careful search should be made for any sign of injury, especially on the head. The discovery of a scalp wound or a fracture of the skull, in association with the symptoms of concussion or compression already described, will in most cases clear up the diagnosis. In the absence of evidence of a head injury, the stomach should be washed out and its contents examined. The urine also should be drawn oft’ and examined for albumin and sugar. In apoplexy and cerebral embolism the symptoms are essenti- ally those of compression, and, in the absence of a definite history of injury to the head, it is seldom possible to arrive at an accurate diagnosis as to the cause of the patient’s condition. The history that the patient has previously had “an apoplectic shock,” and the fact that he is up in years and shows signs of arterial degeneration or of cardiac disease, which would favour such conditions, are presumptive evidence that the lesion is not traumatic. In epileptic coma the diagnosis is very largely dependent on the previous history of the patient. In alcoholic poisoning the nature of the stomach contents will furnish evidence. The patient is not completely unconscious, nor is he paralysed. The pupils are usually contracted, but react. The temperature is often markedly subnormal. Improve- ment soon takes place after the stomach has been emptied. In opium poisoning the general condition of the patient is much the same as in poisoning by alcohol. The pupils, how ever, are markedly contracted, and do not react to light. When the poison has been taken in the form of laudanum, it may be recognised by its odour. In urcemic and in diabetic coma there is no true paralysis, nor is there stertor. There may be oedema of the feet and legs, and the urine contains albumin or sugar. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends so much on the nature and extent of the injury to the brain, that it is impossible to formulate any reliable statements with regard to it. In a general way it may be said, however, that the symptoms which indicate a bad prognosis in compression are immediate rise of temperature, particularly if it goes above 104° F., the early onset of muscular rigidity, extreme and persistent contraction of the pupils, with loss of the reflex to light, conjugate deviation of the eyes, and the early appearance of bed-sores. In the majority of cases compression ends fatally in from two to seven days. On the other hand, recovery may ensue after the stuporous condition has lasted for several weeks.