AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 61 haemorrhage—traumatic or pathological—contusion or laceration of the cerebral tissue, meningitis, and new growths, more particu- larly syphilitic gummata. The nerve trunks may be contused or torn across, especially in basal fractures which cross their foramina of exit; or blood may be effused into their sheaths as a result of trauma apart from fracture. They may also be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions, tumours, gummata, or aneurysms invading the base of the skull. When the nerve is merely contused or pressed upon by effused blood, the paralysis tends to pass off in the course of a few days. When it is torn across or compressed by new growths, the paralysis is permanent. In some traumatic cases paralysis only comes on a few days after the injury, and is then due either to gradually increasing pressure from blood-clot, or more probably to the onset of septic meningitis or of ascending neuritis. The paralysis is on the same side as the lesion when the nerve is affected, and on the opposite side when the cortical centre is involved. (/.) The Olfactory Nerve is liable to have its fibres ruptured as they pass through the cribriform plate, in fractures implicating the anterior fossa of the skull, in which case there results com- plete and permanent loss of smell (anosmia). Haemorrhage into the nerve sheath or contusion of the nerve sometimes causes a transitory loss of smell. Tumours and meningitis in the anterior fossa also may implicate the olfactory nerve. In all cases of anosmia there is also impairment of the sense of taste. (II.) Optic Nerve.—Temporary paralysis of one or both optic nerves is a comparatively common result of traumatic effusion of blood into their sheaths. The resulting blindness may pass off in a few days, or it may last for some weeks. When a large effusion takes place, the prolonged pressure on the nerve may result in optic atrophy and permanent blindness. Complete severance of the nerve by a bullet, the point of a sharp instru- ment, or a fragment of bone, also results in permanent loss of vision. The optic nerves may be paralysed from cellulitis of the orbit, intra-oi’bital tumours, gummata, and aneurysms in the region of the cavernous sinus. Lesions implicating the central visual mechanism give rise to hemianopia—that is, loss of sight in the lateral halves of the fields of vision of both eyes—colour-blindness, subjective sensa- tions of light and colour, and other eye symptoms. Double optic neuritis, followed by optic atrophy, is one of the most constant effects of the growth of tumour within the skull, and is not uncommon in cases of cerebral abscess and meningitis.