690 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. as a slough. The gangrene is usually of the moist type, and the clinical features and principles of treatment are the same as in gangrene of the extremities. After the separation of the slough care must be taken to prevent stenosis of the urethral orifice. Ilerpetic eruptions are frequently met with on the prepuce and glans, and are liable to be mistaken for soft sores. They are usually associated with syphilis or with gout, but are sometimes met with independently of these diseases. They are very liable to recur at intervals. Chronic Induration of the Penis.—Hard fibrous nodules are occasionally met with in the substance of the penis in patients over forty years of age. They may result from injury, from chronic gonorrhoeal inflammation spreading to the connective tissue of the penis, or may be of the nature of syphilitic gummata. In these cases the nodule is in the substance of the corpus cavernosum. In a considerable proportion of cases, however, the nodule is in the fibrous sheath which surrounds the corpora cavernosa, and is associated with gout, rheumatism, or diabetes. When met with under these conditions, the fibrous thickening is to be regarded as of the same nature as the induration of the palmar fascia in Dupuytren’s contraction, or the changes in the ligaments met with in arthritis deformans. The swelling is usually about the size and shape of an almond, is smooth on the surface, is not attached to the skin, but is adherent to the erectile elements of the penis. It is painless, and only gives trouble by causing the penis to become curved during erection, thus interfering with coitus and ejaculation. Sexual hypochon- driasis is often induced. The treatment varies with the cause, but as a rule the condition is very intractable. Most benefit has been derived from repeated blistering and from electrolysis. Tumours.—Papillomatous tumours or warts are usually met with on the glans and inner aspect of the prepuce as a result of venereal infection. They form red, vascular, cauliflower-like masses, more or less pedunculated, and exude a foul-smelling discharge. The treatment is described in vol. i. p. 352. Dermoid and sebaceous cysts are occasionally met with on the under aspect of the prepuce. Horns sometimes form, particularly in old men, either in relation to a sebaceous cyst or a hard wart. As they are liable to lead to the development of carcinoma they should be excised. Carcinoma of the penis is comparatively rare. The tumour is almost always a squamous epithelioma, and commences usually on the dorsal aspect of the glans, less frequently at the reflection of the prepuce, and rarely on the inner aspect or at the orifice of