48 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. The patient is somewhat suddenly seized with intense pain, located mainly in the ear and temporal region, but radiating in different directions through the head. He has a rigor, varying in intensity from a slight feeling of chilliness to a severe fit of shivering, and lasting from a few minutes to half an hour. In uncomplicated cases the shivering is not repeated. There is well-marked cutis anserina. During this stage attacks of cerebral vomiting are common. The temperature and pulse rate are somewhat higher than normal. The tongue is foul and coated. The patient may complain of pains in the limbs. Coincidently with the onset of these symptoms the discharge from the ear usually diminishes, or may even cease. Second Stage—Fully-formed Abscess.—In the course of from one to three days the patient gradually passes into a stuporous condition, which at first bears a close resemblance to that of opium poisoning. The pain in the region of the ear becomes less intense, but the whole of the mastoid and temporal areas are tender on percussion as compared with the unaffected side. Although the patient is quite conscious, his cerebration is slow, he seems unable to sustain his attention for any length of time, and he answers questions “slowly, briefly, but, as a rule, correctly.” At the same time, while there is no actual paresis, there is a “gradual diminution of the ability to apply his strength.” The temperature falls, and as a rule becomes persistently sub- normal. Rigors are unusual in this stage of the disease, their occurrence generally indicating the development of some com- plication, such as sinus phlebitis. The pulse is slow (40 to 60) and full. Further slowing indicates an increase in the size of the abscess. The respiration is slow and regular when the abscess is in the cerebrum, but it is often irregular and of the Cheyne-Stokes type in cases of cerebellar abscess. The gastro-intestinal functions are disturbed, and there is anorexia, obstinate constipation, and occasionally vomiting— especially when the abscess is in the cerebellum. There may be retention of urine, and albuminuria. The site of the lesion is usually indicated by localised paralysis. Convulsions are not common, and are of little diagnostic value. Optic neuritis is an inconstant and often misleading symptom. “ The face is expressionless, passive, and cloudy. It may assume a meaningless smile with which the features are not lit: it is too mechanical ” (Macewen). The pressure symptoms bear no direct proportion to the size of the abscess : they depend more upon its site than upon its size.