THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 552 peritoneum is liable to be torn, and the blood is then poured into the peritoneal cavity. If the rupture involve the pelvis, urine escapes into the surrounding tissues and follows the track of the extravasated blood. Rupture of the renal artery or of one of its main branches, and avulsion of the ureter, are occasionally met with. The risk from haemorrhage is followed by that from septic infection, as pyogenic organisms derived from the blood or from the adjacent colon readily flourish in devitalised or detached portions of the kidney and in the extravasated blood, especially when it is mixed with stagnant urine. In the absence of septic infection, ruptures of the kidney heal rapidly and well, provided the blood supply is sufficient. Clinical Features. —Immediately after the injury, the local symptoms are masked by shock, which is pro- found and lasting in proportion to the severity of the lesion. Shock is succeeded by nausea, vomiting, and pain in the region of the kidney and radiat- ing down to the thigh Fiq. 125.—a, Contusion of Kidney with extensive extravasation of blood into the perirenal fat ; b, Rupture of Kidney, showing Assuring of the organ. and into the testicle. After subsiding for a time, the pain may return in the form of renal colic, due to the passage of clots down the ureter. There is marked tenderness in the region of the kidney, the abdominal muscles on the same side are rigidly contracted, and the bowel may become dis- tended with gas, even although the peritoneum is uninjured. Bruising of the overlying soft parts is exceptional. Haunaturia is one of the most important signs of injury to the kidney, being absent only in cases where the ureter is blocked by a clot, or where it has been torn off from the kidney. The blood may be small in amount—in slight contusions being only detect- able by the microscope—more often it is abundant and pours down the ureter. If the bladder contains urine, the blood mixes with it, and the patient soon experiences a desire to micturate, and what is passed is seen to be tinged with blood or to resemble pure blood. If the bladder is empty, the blood accumulates and