365 HERNIOTOMY. and weakly patients it may be advisable to operate under local ansesthesia; in others a general anaesthetic is to be preferred. When there is regurgitation of foul fluid from the stomach, this viscus should be washed out before beginning the operation. Herniotomy.—An incision is made over the neck and upper part of the sac, the coverings are divided, and the sac exposed and opened. If the fluid is turbid and foul smelling, the viability of the bowel is doubtful. At this stage the sac and its contents should be irrigated with hot saline solution to minimise the risk of infection of the peritoneal cavity. The next step consists in dividing the constricting agent, which is usually found at or about the neck. In inguinal hernia this should be done by cutting down upon it, not only because the tissues to be divided are seen before they are cut, but because the integrity of the sac at the neck is preserved, and this is an advantage in carrying out the radical cure. In femoral hernia the division is nearly always carried out from within outwards by means of a probe-pointed hernia knife, guided to the con- striction by the finger or a broad hernia director. The constriction having been divided, the affected loop of bowel is drawn down into the wound, and the region of the constriction grooves examined. After the bowel has been freed and washed with warm lotion the colour often improves to a marked degree. The viability of the bowel is pretty certain if a peristaltic wave can be sent across the affected loop by flicking it with the finger. If the bowel is merely com- pressed and exhibits changes resulting from venous congestion, it should be emptied of its contents by pressure and returned within the abdomen. If it is inflamed and covered with lymph, it should be irrigated with saline solution before being returned. If in addition there is any alteration in the colour and consistence of the bowel which indicates incipient or actual gangrene, the damaged bowel must be invaginated or removed. Invagination is to be preferred provided the gangrenous area is small enough to allow of this being done without unduly narrowing the lumen, and it is best effected by a series of Lembert sutures after the method of F. M. Caird. More commonly the gangrenous area is too extensive to admit of invagination, and the entire loop of bowel must be resected along with the mesentery in immediate relation to it. The resection should extend well beyond the possible limits of damage to the bowel, in order to have perfectly healthy tissues for end-to-end junction by suture. Where the condition of the patient is so critical as not to permit of this being | carried out,