544 THE KIDNEY AND UKETEK. devised with the object of obtaining the secretion from each kidney. They are provided with a partition, which, after the instrument has been introduced into the bladder, is projected in such a way that it forms an antero-posterior septum between the ureteral openings, the urine which escapes on either side of the septum being conveyed by a separate canal in the shaft of the instrument into a receptacle. Catheterisation of the ureters is more reliable, although it requires more skill and practice on the part of the observer. The ureteral catheters, which are made of silk, are sterilised by boiling in a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate, and are preserved dry in sterilised glass cylinders. Before use they are dipped in sterile glycerine. A preliminary examination with the simple cystoscope enables the operator to determine whether the ureteral openings will lend themselves to catheterisation, orwhether this is impossible, as, for example, on account of marked swelling of the mucous membrane, extensive ulceration, or pronounced fasciculation of the bladder. If feasible, the cystoscope, armed with a ureteral catheter, is introduced, the bladder having been again washed out and filled with boracic solution. The ureteral opening—say, on the left side—having been brought into view at the lower part of the field, in order to introduce the catheter, the eye-piece of the cystoscope must be pushed to the opposite side and elevated. The head of the observer will then be close to the right thigh of the patient. Along with the cystoscope, the j catheter is slowly pushed onward until its point enters the ureteral orifice, without touching the vesical mucous membrane, The catheter is pushed in for a distance of about three-quarters of an inch, the stylet withdrawn, and the urine collected. The urine from the other kidney accumulates in the bladder, and may be drawn off with an ordinary catheter, but it is better to catheterise the second ureter immediately after collecting a sufficient amount of urine from the first. In the female the second catheter may be introduced while the first is still in position. The urine obtained from each kidney is examined chemically, microscopically and bacteriologically, and its con- centration determined by testing the freezing-point with Beck- mann’s apparatus. In the female, the ureters may also be catheterised directly by • Kelly’s method. The patient is placed in the genu-pectoral or in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis elevated. The urethra is dilated until the speculum with its obturator can be introduced. When the obturator is withdrawn the bladder fills with air, and is illuminated by means of a frontal mirror re*