CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 405 Tumours of the Stomach. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma is by far the most common form of tumour met with in the stomach, and it may develop in any part of the viscus. It occurs with about equal frequency in the two sexes, and usually appears between the ages of forty and sixty. The pathological and clinical features vary accord- ing as the tumour is situated at the pylorus, in the body of the stomach, or at the cardiac end. Special mention must be made of the fact that cancer is very liable to develop in an old- standing gastric ulcer—so called “ ulcer-cancer ” of the stomach. The region of the lesser curvature near the pylorus is that most frequently attacked, the growth being situated there in fully 60 per cent, of all cases. It is in this situation also that “ ulcer-cancer ” is most likely to develop. The tumour is usually of the scirrhous variety, and forms a small, hard, annular growth, which tends to surround and occlnde the pyloric orilice. It increases slowly, shows little tendency to invade the duodenum, but spreads towards the body of the stomach, and along the lesser curvature in the line of the main lymphatics. The glands lying between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum along the lesser curvature of the stomach are usually infected, and those in the great omentum along the greater curvature may also become involved. The tumour is liable to form adhesions with the liver, the gall-bladder, the head of the pancreas, and, through the retro-peritoneal tissue, with the main blood-vessels. Tumours of the body of the stomach are usually more cellular in character, the cylindrical carcinoma being the most common form. They grow more rapidly, tend to infiltrate a large area of the stomach wall, and are more liable to ulcerate and bleed. They frequently undergo colloid degeneration. All the lymphatic glands related to the stomach are early and widely infected. Metastasis to the liver and lungs is comparatively common, and in some cases diffuse infiltration of the peritonenm occurs. In cases of hour-glass stomach, due to cicatricial con- traction of a gastric ulcer, cancer frequently develops at the isthmus. Cancer at the cardiac end of the stomach is usually a squamous epithelioma which has spread from the oesophagus. Clinical Features.—The first symptoms are a gradual loss of appetite and loss of flesh, developing without obvious cause in an individual previously in good health. In course of time the patient becomes anaemic, and being easily tired is disinclined for