HERNIA. 370 in shape. This is probably the most common form of inguinal hernia. Infantile Hernia.—This comparatively rare variety of hernia is not well named. The term “ infantile ” has no reference to the age at which the hernial tumour appears, for the majority of cases have been met with in adults. A second peritoneal process is pulled down into the scrotum behind a persistent processus vaginalis by an aberrant attachment of the guber- naculum testis. Infantile hernia does not present any distinctive clinical features; the new sac descends behind the processus and bulges into it, so that on cutting down to the protruded gut from the front three layers of peritoneum are met with, the first two belonging to the processus vaginalis, and the third representing the newly formed hernial sac. It is not identified until exposed by operation. Closely allied to infantile hernia is that known as encysted hernia, in which the newly formed sac descends into and in- vaginates the processus vaginalis, which is obliterated only at the internal abdominal ring, and which entirely envelops the hernia instead of lying in front of it as in the infantile variety. It may be associated with retention of the testis in the inguinal canal. Hernia with Retention of the Testis.—This association is not uncommon, especially in children. The testis may be retained within the abdomen, or, as is more usual, may occupy some part of the inguinal canal. The testis is frequently arrested in its development, and may be exceedingly sensitive. In the majority of cases the hernia comes down before the testicle, next in frequency the hernia and testis descend simultaneously, exceptionally the testis descends first, and is followed after a variable interval by the hernia. In the treatment of this condi- tion, the attempt may be made by means of a truss provided with a horseshoe-shaped pad to retain the hernia while allowing the testicle to descend, but this is seldom practicable. The opera- tive treatment is more satisfactory; the testis and cord are freed from their coverings, and the former is brought down to and fixed in the scrotum. The process of peritoneum is then divided and closed at the internal ring, and the walls of the inguinal canal brought together. Congenital Hernia in the Female.—A process of peritoneum —the canal of Nuck—accompanies the round ligament in the foetus, and is usually obliterated at birth. If it remain patent and a hernia descend into it, this is known as a “hernia into the canal of Nuck.” The canal may remain patent, however, without leading to the development of a hernia.