514 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. The organisms most frequently present in these abscesses are the colon bacillus, the tubercle bacillus, the streptococcus, and the staphylococcus aureus. The colon bacillus is usually associ- ated with the ordinary pyogenic cocci. The tubercle bacillus is frequently found alone. The determining cause of the abscess may be an injury of the rectum, for example, by a foreign body, such as a fish bone impacted in the mucous membrane, a blow or kick over the perineum, or the pressure of an ill-fitting bicycle saddle. In other cases suppuration follows an attack of proctitis, an ulcer of the rectum, or is associated with polypus, piles, or stricture. Exposure to cold or wet, by lowering the vitality of the tissues, probably predisposes to suppuration. Abscesses may occur in the vicinity of the rectum at any age, but are most common above the age of thirty. Males suffer much more frequently than females. Varieties.—The subcutaneous or perianal abscess may origi- nate either in a sebaceous follicle, or in relation to a thrombosed external pile or a fissure. It is situated in the subcutaneous tissue close to the anal margin. The follicular abscess—which is practically a boil—may be simple or multiple, and it is not uncommon for several to form one after another, and for these to coalesce and lead to considerable burrowing under the skin. The burrowing usually takes place in a direction away from the bowel, with the result that a fistula seldom forms. When associ- ated with a fissure or pile the abscess (marginal abscess) is usually single, and tends to burrow towards the mucous mem- brane, forming a short, superficial fistula (Fig. 119«). These abscesses give rise to itching around the anus and constant throbbing pain, which is aggravated by sitting or walking, and during defecation. Locally there is a small, red, fluctuating swelling, surrounded by an area of induration and oedema. The parts are tender to touch and on rectal examination. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened as early as possible to prevent burrowing, and to avoid the formation of a fistula. A crucial or T-shaped incision extending well beyond the indurated area ensures gaping of the wound, and permits of better drainage than a single straight cut. Care should be taken not to divide the external sphincter. Any septa in the abscess should be broken down, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. The after-treatment of this, and of other varieties of rectal abscess, calls for much attention to prevent the formation of a fistula. The wound should be dressed twice a day, the packing being carefully adjusted to ensure that healing takes place from the bottom. Hot sitz baths at the time the dressing is changed