NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 613 the clothes by day, as well as into the bed by night, and there may also be a want of control over the bowel. In a minority of cases some source of peripheral irritation is discovered, which may explain the undue irritability of the bladder,—crystals of uric acid in the urine, a tight or adherent prepuce, or rectal irritation such as may result from worms. In the great majority no such explanation is to be discovered, and the phenomena are ascribed to “nervousness” of the child, which may be aggravated by the punishment inflicted, a tendency to dream of the act of micturi- tion, an undue sensitiveness of the bladder and of the micturition centres in the spinal cord, an anaesthesia of the deep urethra, or a want of tone in the sphincter muscles. These muscles are too weak to resist the vesical pressure, and the bladder empties itself before the patient awakes, or, if it occur during the day, before he has time to get to a urinal. The condition tends to disappear at puberty. In the case of adults, the occasional involuntary passage of urine during sleep may be a manifestation of epilepsy. The treatment must be selected according to the features of the case. Any such condition as spina bifida occulta, phymosis, or lithiasis, should be dealt with. In purely neurotic cases suggestion may prove of service. The general health must be improved by tonics and sea - bathing. The child should be trained to lie on his side, preferably on a hard bed, the foot of which is raised some eight or ten inches. It is better to wake him regularly just before the bladder is likely to empty itself than to administer corporal punishment. If it is believed that the bladder or the spinal centres are unduly irritable, belladonna may be given in increasing doses as recommended by Trousseau. If it is believed that the sphincter muscles are wanting in tone, a course of faradic electricity may be employed, one pole being placed in the rectum and the other over the pubes. In some cases improvement has followed upon stretching the posterior urethra by means of bougies, or applying to its mucous membrane a solution of nitrate of silver. The injection of saline solution into the retro-rectal cellular tissue has been followed by dis- appearance of the incontinence.