430 THE INTESTINES. its concavity towards the umbilicus, is the most constant and reliable sign of ileo-csecal intussusception. It is most often felt in the position of the descending or of the transverse colon. It becomes hard and prominent during the attacks of pain. When the tumour has reached the lower part of the colon, it may be felt in the rectum as a soft, conical mass with a central depression resembling the os uteri, and the examining finger when with- drawn is stained with bloody mucus resembling red-currant jelly. Its presence in the rectum is usually associated with tenesmus and relaxation of the sphincters. The tumour may finally protrude from the anus, presenting the appearances of congestion or of gangrene. The child exhibits the general features of intestinal obstruction, although distension of the abdomen is absent or but little marked, and the vomiting rarely becomes faecal. The abdominal or recto-abdominal examination which is so important in the diagnosis of intussusception is best made under chloroform. Treatment.—Success depends on the promptness with which the condition is recognised and treated. The choice of methods lies between immediate abdominal section, and making an attempt to reduce the intussusception by inflating the lower bowel with air or distending it with fluid. Inflation is carried out under anaesthesia; the buttocks are raised and the hand of the surgeon is placed over the abdomen in order to follow what is going on within. Air is pumped in by a bellows ; or olive oil or salt solution, at a temperature of 100° F., is allowed to flow into the rectum through a soft rubber tube connected with a funnel held at a maximum height of two feet above the patient. When from ten to thirty ounces have entered the colon, and an interval of ten minutes has elapsed, the fluid is allowed to escape and the abdomen is again examined. If the tumour has entirely disappeared, a minute dose of opium is given, and the patient is re-examined in from three to six hours, and at subsequent intervals. If the tumour does not dis- appear, operation should be proceeded with at once. Against inflation it is urged that it is often impossible to determine whether the intussusception has been completely reduced or not, and that in the event of failure valuable time has been lost, and the possible chance of reduction by operative means has gone by. The alleged recurrences of intussusception after reduction by inflation are probably instances of incomplete reduction. Operation.—If the tumour is confined to the region of the