THE CHEST. 280 areas in the lung or of malignant tumours have been un- successful in the majority of cases in which they have been attempted. The Heart. Injuries.—In considering wounds of the heart it is necessary to distinguish between those which implicate only the walls of the organ and those which penetrate its cavities. Non- penetrating wounds are usually caused by stabs, or by a sharp fragment of a broken rib being driven into the heart. Pene- trating wounds may also result from stabs, but are most frequently due to gun-shot injuries, and the bullet may either pass right through the heart or lodge in its substance. Needles sometimes pass into the heart, either through the chest wall or from the oesophagus, without doing much damage, and they may lodge and remain for long in the substance of the organ without causing any symptoms. Owing to the comparative thinness of the walls of the auricles, wounds of these cavities are more speedily fatal than those of the ventricles, as the haemorrhage takes place much more rapidly. From its exposed position the right ventricle is the cavity most frequently injured. Clinical Features.—Penetrating wounds usually prove rapidly fatal from haemorrhage. The blood may escape in great quantity from the external wound, or may fill up the pericardium and arrest the heart by pressing upon it. In cases which are not immediately fatal the patient is profoundly collapsed, shows extreme pallor, and is often agitated and restless. Dyspnoea and other signs of “air hunger” are present. The heart’s action is tumultuous, irregular and feeble, and on auscultation, whizzing, blowing, and other abnormal sounds may be heard. There may be signs of effusion of blood into the pericardium, or into the left pleura, as this cavity is often traversed by the wound. If the bleeding is arrested, recovery may take place by organisation of a clot in the wound, or by the formation of adhesions with the pericardium. In a considerable number of recorded cases, death has occurred suddenly in from ten to four- teen days after the injury, from softening and displacement of occluding clots, either as a result of septic complications, or from the patient exerting himself too soon. In other cases septic pericarditis has been the cause of death. Treatment.—The primary indication is to reduce the force of the heart’s action as much as possible, in order that haemorrhage may cease and a reparative clot form in the wound. To this