AFFECTIONS OF THE NIPPLE AND AREOLA. 287 In the early stages, and particularly when it is unilateral, this condition is liable to be mistaken for a cystic fibro-adenoma or a rapidly growing sarcoma. In most cases the only available treatment is amputation of the breasts. An interval shonld be allowed to elapse between the operations on the two breasts, as the operation is a severe one, and is usually attended with con- siderable bleeding. The larger breast shonld be removed first, as it has been observed that after the operation the other breast sometimes undergoes atrophy. In cases where operation is im- practicable, the treatment consists in administering iodides, putting the patient on a spare and dry diet, and supporting the breasts by suitable bandages. The term gynecomazia or gynecomastia is applied to a hyper- trophy of the mamma which is occasionally met with in the male. The condition may be unilateral or bilateral, and affects chiefly the stroma of the gland. The breasts seldom become larger than an ordinary nnlliparous female breast. It is fre- quently associated with congenital malformations of the sexual organs. If the deformity is marked, the mammae may be excised. Affections of the Nipple and Areola. One or both nipples may be abnormally small or depressed, either congenitally or as a result of cicatricial contraction, with the result that suckling is rendered difficult, and the irritation produced by the efforts of the child causes cracks and fissures to form, and so predisposes to mastitis. As a rule the nipple can be withdrawn sufficiently to enable it to be used for nursing, by systematic gentle traction and the use of a breast pump. Cracks and fissures of the nipple are of importance from the fact that they are often the starting-point of acute mastitis and mammary abscess. They usually develop during lactation, as a result of injury indicted by the child while suckling, or in association with eczema of the areola. On account of the soft and delicate nature of the areolar skin, the moist condition of the parts, and the repeated irritation to which they are subjected, these fissures are prevented from healing, and are liable to become infected with micro-organisms, which are so abundant in the cutaneous glands in this region. The infection spreads along the lymphatics to the breast, setting up acute mastitis, which may end in suppuration. The pain caused by suckling is frequently so severe as to cause the patient to desist from nursing, with the result that the gland becomes engorged and the tendency to indammation is thereby increased.