THE LIPS. 127 THE LIPS. Painful cracks and fissures are frequently met with in the middle line of the lip and at the angle of the mouth in young subjects. They usually develop during frosty weather, and as they are constantly being torn open by the movements of the mouth, they are difficult to heal. The application of glycerine or lanoline may be employed. In many cases it is necessary to cocainise the fissure and scrape it with a sharp spoon. Chronic Induration of the Lips (Strumous Lip).—A chronic oedematous infiltration, probably of the nature of a lymphangitis, sometimes affects the sub-mucous tissue of the lips of delicate children. It is most common on the upper lip, and may be associated with a fissure or with chronic coryza. The lip is everted, and its mucous membrane unduly prominent. The cervical glands are frequently enlarged. The treatment consists in removing the cause and in im- proving the general condition of the patient. In exaggerated cases of long standing it may be necessary to remove from the inner aspect of the lip a horizontal strip of tissue having the shape of a segment of an orange. Tuberculous ulcers are occasionally met with on the mucous membrane of the lips of patients suffering from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis. They are usually superficial, may be single or multiple, and are exceedingly painful. They may be treated by scraping with a sharp spoon, and sub- sequent painting with pure carbolic acid or 20 per cent, solution of lactic acid. Dusting with orthoform powder is useful in relieving pain. Lupus may spread to the lip from the nose or face. Syphilitic Lesions.—The upper lip is the most frequent seat of extra-genital chancre. Infection may take place by direct contact with a syphilitic sore or mucous patch—as in the act of kissing, or, in the case of infants, from the nipple of a syphilitic wet nurse. In other cases infection is transmitted through the medium of spoons, drinking glasses, or tobacco pipes. The chancre begins on the mucous surface as a small crack or blister, which gradually increases till it forms a rounded, in- durated swelling, about a quarter of an inch in diameter. The surface is smooth, of a greyish colour, and exudes a small quantity of sero-purulent fluid. The lip is swollen and everted, and there is a considerable area of induration around the