LOCAL ANAESTHESIA. 703 The skin having been thoroughly purified, the needle of a strong hypodermic syringe, charged with the solution, is entered obliquely, and carried for its entire length into the Malpighian layer. A few drops of the solution are forced out, and a white wheal like a mosquito bite about half an inch in diameter is formed, and the area occupied by the wheal at once becomes analgesic. At the margin, the needle is reinserted, more fluid injected, and the process repeated until the whole area is infil- trated. The skin remains analgesic for about twenty minutes. Fasciae, muscles, and periosteum can be rendered insensitive in the same way. In dealing with an abscess, the injection must be made into the abscess wall, not into the cavity. Oberst’s regional anaesthesia is well adapted for operations on the fingers, toes, and extremities generally. It consists in first arresting the circulation of the part by a rubber band, and then injecting a 1 per cent, solution of cocain or eucain round the nerves of supply, so that the whole part is rendered completely anaesthetic and the constitutional effects are avoided. The symptoms of cocain poisoning are headache, vertigo, pallor, cold, clammy skin, feeble, rapid pulse, slow, shallow breathing, nausea and vomiting, tremors in the limbs, and loss of consciousness. If these symptoms appear the patient must be placed in the supine position and artificial respiration be carried out. An alcoholic stimulant should be administered, and the patient surrounded with hot bottles. Local Anaesthesia produced by the Applicaticm of Intense Cold.—This is most commonly done at the present day by means of the ethyl chloride spray, and the method is a very rapid and convenient one. For this purpose the drug is put up in glass or metal cylinders, the exit of which is of a finer bore than that of the cylinders employed for general anaesthesia. Ethyl chloride for local anaesthesia is commonly mixed with a proportion of methyl chloride which renders it more volatile. Mode of Application.—The cylinder is held at a distance of from eight to ten inches from the patient’s skin, and a fine spray projected on to the area of skin to be incised. After a few seconds the skin becomes hard and white in round patches which coalesce as it freezes, and it remains insensitive for some three or four minutes. Only short operations can be carried out under the anaesthesia provided by this method, for example, the incision of an abscess or whitlow, or the insertion of an aspirator needle.