431 INTUSSUSCEPTION. ascending colon, the incision is made there; in other cases it is made in or near the middle line, with its centre about the level of the navel. The fingers are inserted into the abdominal cavity, and an attempt made to deliver the tumour. In reduction the tumour should be straightened as far as possible, and an attempt made to force back the intussusception by compressing the sheath just below the apex of the tumour. On no account should the entering bowel be pulled upon. Most difficulty is experienced at the end of the procedure, and to prevent damage to the bowel at this stage, and to render the compression more uniform, the bowel should be wrapped round with a thick layer of gauze wrung out of saline solution. After reduction has been successfully accomplished, the intestines are replaced and the wound closed. If reduction is impossible, or if the intussusception is already gangrenous, the outlook is grave in the extreme. Immediate resection of the invaginated portion inside the colon has yielded the best results. The sheath and the intussusception are first united by a continuous suture through the serous and muscular coats at the neck of the tumour, the sheath is then laid freely open and the intussusceptum removed, and the operation is completed by sewing up the wound in the sheath. If the sheath and returning tube are too adherent to allow of this, or if the sheath is not viable, the whole tumour must be resected, or, in the case of adhesions, an anastomosis may be made between the bowel above and below the lesion. The practice of bringing the bowel out at the wound, and forming an artificial anus above the intussusception, affords very little prospect of recovery. Chronic intussusception in children is usually of the ileo-csecal variety. The course of the malady may extend over several months, or may be protracted even for a year; the clinical features are often ambiguous and the progress most irregular. There are occasional attacks of pain and vomiting, the bowels are irregular, and blood may be passed in the stools. Coils of intestine are often to be seen in movement beneath the abdominal wall. A tumour is to be made out in about one-half of the cases, and it may be observed to vary considerably in its position within the abdomen from time to time. It may come down into the rectum and protrude at the anus, and is thus liable to be mistaken for prolapse or polypus. In the early periods of the disease, and in the intervals between attacks of pain, the child may appear to be in fair health. The symptoms are often aggravated by the taking of food. The abdomen must be opened both for purposes of diagnosis and for treatment. The