534 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. liminary colostomy if obstruction is actually present or is threatened. The perineal operation is selected when the growth encroaches on the anal canal, and is well within reach of the finger. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is made backwards in the middle line from the posterior edge of the anus to the tip of the coccyx. If the tumour does not reach down to the anal orifice an attempt is made to conserve the external sphincter by carrying an incision round the bowel at the level of the white line of Hilton ; but if the anal region is invaded by the growth, and the external sphincter cannot be saved, the incision must be carried through the skin around the anus. The edges of the incision being held well apart, the rectum is separ- ated from its surroundings with the aid of scissors and a blunt dissector, care being taken not to injure the urethra or prostate. An instrument should be passed into the bladder during this stage of the operation to indicate the position of the urethra. After the dissection has been carried for fully an inch above the upper limit of the tumour, the bowel is cut across. The bleeding having been arrested, a gum-elastic rectal tube is passed into the bowel to permit of the passage of flatus, and surrounded by a firm packing of iodoform gauze. The bowels should be kept closed with the aid of opium for four or five days. Frequent dressing of the wound is necessary to prevent septic complica- tions, and to promote healing. The occasional passage of a bougie may be called for to prevent stenosis. The sacral operation is employed when the tumour is situated too high to be reached from the perineum, and when the anal canal is intact and the sphincter can be preserved. The patient is placed on his right side, or on his face, with the pelvis well raised to diminish lnemorrliage, and an incision made from the middle of the sacrum, or along its left lateral margin, to the anus. The edges of the wound are then forcibly retracted, and the posterior aspect of the bowel exposed to a level well above the tumour by dividing the sacro-sciatic ligaments or removing a sufficient portion of the coccyx and sacrum. The rectum is then separated from its surroundings by the fingers or a blunt dissector. In separating the anterior aspect of the bowel, it is almost always necessary to divide the peritoneal reflection, and this should be done early and deliberately in order that the upper limits of the tumour may be defined and the bowel pulled down, and that precautions may be taken to prevent infection of the cavity during the operation, and to ensure that the opening may be efficiently closed or drained afterwards. The affected