317 AFFECTIONS OF THE UMBILICUS. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is only obliterated at its two extremities, the intervening portion may become dis- tended with fluid and form a cyst. Treatment.—If the fistula at the umbilicus only discharges mucus there is no call for interference, but if it discharges faecal matter it is better to open the abdomen, excise the diverticulum along with its termination at the umbilicus, and close the orifice of communication with the ileum. The entero- teratoma may be removed after ligaturing its base. Persistence of the Urachus.—Urachal Fistulce and Cysts.— The urachus or duct of communication between the urinary bladder and the allantois in the foetus may remain patent and extend into the substance of the umbilical cord. In such cases, when the stump of the cord separates, a urachal fistida results and discharges a varying quantity of urine. If it does not close spontaneously, the patent urachus should be dissected out, and the opening at the summit of the bladder be closed by sutures. In older children and in adults, a similar fistula may form as the result of the extension of inflammation from the bladder to the unobliterated urachus, in cases where there is a difficulty in voiding the urine by the normal channel. A painful swell- ing forms between the umbilicus and the pubes, and after rupturing at the navel discharges pus and urine. The treatment consists in removing any obstruction to the escape of urine by the normal channel, getting rid of the inflammation of the bladder, and finally dissecting out the urachus from the navel to the bladder, and closing the opening in the latter. Urachal cysts result if the urachus remain patent, while its vesical and umbilical openings are obliterated. Inflammation of the umbilicus is usually the result of want of cleanliness, the epidermis and sebaceous secretion accumulat- ing and undergoing decomposition. The umbilicus becomes inflamed and swollen, and a stinking discharge escapes on the surface. The treatment consists in cleansing the parts. Umbilical Fistulas of other than Congenital Origin.—Ab- scesses derived from any of the subjacent organs may point and rupture in the situation of the umbilical scar. The discharge is purulent in the first instance, but may become mixed with bile, fasces or urine, according to the origin of the abscess. Biliary jistulce usually follow upon the inflammatory complica- tions of gall-stones. Urinary Jistulce follow on prevesical cellu- litis and abscess, and they resemble those which are associated