631 RUPTURE. Should these measures fail, the alternative procedure is to cut down on the ruptured urethra—external urethrotomy. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, a large bougie or Wheelhouse’s stall' is passed as far as the seat of rupture, and the end of it cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum. The blood and clots are got rid of by a stream of hot saline solution, and the proximal end of the urethra is searched for with a probe; pressing over the bladder from above the pubes so as to expel urine may facilitate the recognition of the urethra. The point in the wound which bleeds most persistently is usually the stump of the urethra. Having found the central end, a rubber catheter is passed along the whole length of the canal, the torn urethra is stitched over it, and the perineal wound closed except a small opening left for drainage. The catheter is connected with a suction apparatus. It should be stated that many authors, and among them Guyon, condemn the practice of merely tying in a catheter, on the ground that it does not necessarily prevent extravasation, and they recommend an immediate external urethrotomy in all cases. In cases seen soon after the injury, we are quite satisfied with tying in a catheter, but it is necessary to keep a watch on the swelling in the perineum, and be prepared to operate if extravasation occur. In ruptured urethra with fracture of the pelvis it is often impossible to pass a catheter, and if it does enter the bladder the urine drawn off may be loaded with blood. It is nearly always necessary to perform perineal section, and it may be impossible to find the proximal end of the urethra. In this case the further procedure will depend on the general condition of the patient. If shock is severe the bladder may be aspirated above the pubes as a temporary measure. If the patient can stand the operation the canal of the urethra is reconstituted by “ the retrograde ” route, the bladder being opened above the pubes, the internal opening of the urethra identified with the tip of the left forefinger, a long bent probe passed through it and brought out at the rupture in the perineum. The outer end of a rubber catheter is then attached to the probe by a silk thread, and in its turn brought out in the perineum, the silk thread is then detached, and the catheter pushed along the anterior urethra until it emerges at the meatus. It is rarely possible to suture the rent in the deep urethra, the perineal wound should therefore be left open for drainage, but the opening in the bladder may be closed. If extravasation have already taken place, an external urethro- tomy is imperatively called for, and if there be already evidence