303 ATROPHIC SCIRRHUS. breast, probably as a result of cancer cells being carried across the middle line in the lymphatics. Occasionally numerous cancerous nodules appear in the skin, and spread till they form a hard, brawny patch, which may involve a large area of the chest wall, rendering it leathery and rigid—cancer en cuirasse. The disease may spread to the anterior mediastinum, either directly through the chest wall or by way of the lymphatics. Metastatic deposits may occur in different parts of the body, the spread taking place either through the lymphatic system or, as Goldmann has shown, by direct invasion of the veins in the neighbourhood of the tumour. Metastatic growths seldom occur within two years of the mammary tumour first being noticed. The organs most frequently invaded are the liver, the pleura, the lungs, the stomach, and the bones. In the advanced stages of the disease the patient presents the so-called cancerous cachexia, becoming emaciated, worn, feeble and anxious, with dry, yellow or earthy-coloured skin. Death usually takes place from inanition and exhaustion, from pain and want of sleep. When the tumour has ulcerated, septic absorption occurs and may hasten the patient’s end. Sometimes the fatal issue is determined by a metastatic growth occurring in a vital organ. Atrophic Scirrhus.—This form of cancer is usually met with in patients beyond the age of sixty. It is characterised by its extreme hardness, the slowness of its growth, and the long course the disease may run—the patient in some cases living as long as fifteen or twenty years after the appearance of the tumour. It may occur as a single small nodule in the substance of the breast, or may affect the whole of the gland. The nipple is usually deeply retracted, and, in the diffuse variety, the breast forms a small, hard, projecting lump firmly fixed to the chest wall, and having the skin firmly adherent to it. The axillary glands may remain free of infection for several years, but eventually they become enlarged and hard, particularly if the growth ulcerates. Colloid Cancer.—In rare cases carcinomatous tumours of the breast undergo colloid degeneration, the malignant epithelial elements becoming transformed into a clear, gelatinous material which distends the alveoli. The tumour, which is smooth and rounded, projects from the surface of the breast, and is charac- terised clinically by its slow growth and low degree of malignancy. The axillary glands are only implicated late in the disease, and metastases are seldom met with. The prognosis after operation is more favourable than in any other form of breast cancer.