500 PELVIC SWELLINGS IN THE FEMALE. patient, do not call for any treatment. Palliative measures are indicated in cases attended with haemorrhage and pressure symptoms, particularly when the tumour is rapidly increasing in size. Of these may be mentioned packing the uterus or vagina, the use of pessaries to raise the tumour into the abdomen, curettage of the uterus, and the application of the galvanic electric current, by introducing the positive pole into the uterine cavity, and placing the negative pole over the anterior abdominal wall. The electrical treatment not only stops the bleeding, but may also arrest the growth of the tumour, or even bring about a permanent diminution in its size. Operative treatment is called for when the tumour is impacted in the pelvis and is causing pressure on the bladder, ureters, and rectum, or when it has passed into the abdomen and has reached the size of a seven months’ pregnancy, and is still growing. Profuse haemorrhage, pain, and interference with the general health, so that the patient becomes a chronic invalid, may also necessitate operation. The ideal operation is myomectomy, which consists in enucleating the tumour without sacrificing any material portion of the uterine wall. This procedure is specially indicated in young women, and in isolated and pedunculated growths of the subserous and interstitial varieties, which can be shelled out of their bed in the uterus. The tumour should be freely exposed through a mesial abdominal incision, isolated, and, if possible, brought out through the wound. An incision is made round the pedicle or into the capsule, and the growth is enucleated. Haemorrhage must be completely controlled by securing the main vessels of supply, and by clamping and ligaturing all the bleeding points. The gap in the uterus is accurately closed by a series of interrupted sutures so as to leave the organ function- ally intact. Several growths may be removed from the uterus in this way. The abdominal wound is closed without drainage. When it is impossible to enucleate the tumours, the body of the uterus may be removed with the growths, the cervix being preserved—hystero-myomectomy or supra-vaginal hysterectomy. In some cases it is necessary to remove the entire uterus and its appendages—pan-hysterectomy. When fibroids complicate pregnancy and give rise to urgent symptoms, it may be necessary to terminate the pregnancy by inducing abortion, and to perform myomectomy or hysterectomy according to circumstances.