377 FEMORAL HERNIA. small femoral kernim the sac is usually loosely attached, and may be accidentally reduced with the contents. In very large herniac the sac may present several diverticula, and so exhibit a lobulated appearance. A femoral hernia forms gradually, and very often painlessly, and it may pass unnoticed by the patient for years, especially in stout women. The hernia is often as small as a cherry or a pigeon’s egg, and may contain only a small tag of omentum which is irreducible, or only a portion of the circumference of the bowel—Richter’s hernia (Fig. 67). Large herniae containing several feet of small intestine are, however, sometimes met with. Femoral herniae are more often strangulated than inguinal, and are in any case more difficult to reduce. Gangrene may take place rapidly, and is often localised to the constriction ring at the neck of the sac opposite the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, hence the necessity in herniotomy of pulling down this portion of the bowel for inspection. Diagnosis.—It may be repeated that strangulated femoral hernia is often overlooked because of its small size, and the fact that its existence is unknown to the patient, hence the necessity of carefully examining the femoral canal in all cases Avhere there are symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. It is often difficult to distinguish between femoral and inguinal hernia in fat women on account of the indefinite landmarks. The neck of an inguinal hernia lies above and internal to the spine of the pubes, that of a femoral hernia below and external to the spine. If the hernia be reducible, it may be noticed that in the one case it disappears at the inguinal canal, and in the other at the crural canal. In irreducible hernia an attempt should be made to introduce the finger into each of the hernial canals—the one will be found empty, the other occupied. Varicose -pouching of the saphena vein closely resembles a hernia, but the swelling reappears after reduction in spite of pressure on the crural canal, and it is associated with varix of other parts of the limb. Enlarged inguinal glands when matted together and prolonged into the crural canal, as in tuberculosis, may be difficult to differentiate from a femoral hernia. Among other conditions which may simulate a femoral hernia may be mentioned psoas abscess, enlargement of the bursa underneath the ilio-psoas, a fatty tumour which may be a downgrowtk from the hypertrophied extra-peritoneal fat, and consolidated aneurysm. Treatment.—Palliative treatment by trusses is carried out on the same line as in inguinal hernia, and the method of measuring