SYMPTOMS OF LARYNGEAL AFFECTIONS. 253 to enable the tissues overlying the larynx to be reflected to each side. The trachea is then cut across just above the tube. The larynx is next separated from the pharynx from below upwards, care being taken to avoid injuring the pharynx. The cavity left after removal of the larynx is packed with gauze and treated by the open method. The patient is fed for some days through a tube passed into the oesophagus, and by means of nutrient enemata. An artificial larynx may subsequently be inserted, but as a rule this apparatus is not required, as the voice, although “ whispered,” is quite distinct. Cardinal Symptoms of Laryngeal Affections. The cardinal symptoms of laryngeal affections are interference with the voice, pain on swallowing, and interference with respira- tion. Laryngeal cough of a croupy or barking character may be present, and is usually associated with a lesion of the posterior wall or inter-arytenoid fold. Haemoptysis is seldom of laryngeal origin, and unless the bleeding spot is visible in the mirror, the source of the bleeding is much more likely to be in the bronchi or lungs. Interference with the Voice. — Hoarseness is due to an affection of the vocal cords, and may be of inflammatory origin, as in simple laryngitis, or due to some specific cause, such as tuberculosis or syphilis. It may arise also from such conditions as prevent the proper approximation of the vocal cords, as in tumours and certain forms of paralysis. Huskiness of voice occurring in a middle-aged person, lasting for a considerable period, and being unattended by any other local or constitutional symptom, should always arouse suspicion of malignant disease, and calls for a careful examination of the larynx. Should this reveal a congested condition of one vocal cord, associated with some infiltration, and should the mobility of the cord be impaired, suspicion of the malignant character of the affection is still further increased. The hoarseness in these cases is some- times greater than the local appearances would seem to account for. Aphonia, or loss of voice, sudden in origin and sometimes of a transient nature, frequently occurs in females, and is usually functional or hysterical in nature. Although the patient is unable to speak, she is quite able to cough and to laugh. In these cases there is a bilateral paralysis of the adductor muscles, so that the cords do not approximate on attempted phonation ;