INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 38 The operation consists in exposing the fractured area by enlarging the wound in cases of compound fracture, or by throwing down a horseshoe-shaped flap in cases where no wound exists. Fragments which are still connected with the pericranium or dura mater should be placed in position and left to unite ; when entirely separated, they should, as a rule, be removed. There is often considerable difficulty in elevating the depressed fragments, and it is necessary to remove a portion of the intact bone by means of the trephine or Hey’s saw to enable the elevator to be inserted under them. The raising of the fragments is sometimes followed by haemorrhage from torn vessels of the dura which have been compressed by the depressed portions of bone. Drainage of the wound is usually necessary, and sutures should be sparingly employed. Fractures of the Base.—The base of the skull may be fractured by a pointed object, such as a fencing foil, a knitting- pin, or the end of an umbrella, being forced through the orbit, nasal cavities, or pharynx. These injuries will be referred to in describing fractures of the anterior fossa. The majority of basal fractures result from such accidents as a fall from a height, the patient landing on the vertex or on the side of the head, or from a heavy object falling on the head. The violence is therefore indirect in so far as the bone breaks at a point other than the seat of impact. In other cases the base is broken by the patient falling from a height and landing on his feet or buttocks, the force being transmitted through the spine to the occiput. Sometimes the condyle of the lower jaw is driven through the base of the skull by a blow or fall on the chin. It is usual to describe these also as fractures by indirect violence, but as the skull gives way at the point where it is struck, they are really fractures by direct violence. In the consideration of the mode of production of basal fractures by indirect violence, the irregular shape of the cavity, the varying strength and thickness of its different parts, and the existence of the foramina through the bone are to be borne in mind. The force acting on the skull tends to increase one diameter of the cavity, and to diminish the opposite diameter. The resulting fracture, therefore, is due to bursting of the skull, and tends to take place at the part which has least elasticity;—that is, at the base. It has been found that the site and direction of basal fractures bear a fairly constant relation to the direction of the force by which they are produced. When, for example, the