252 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. trachea exposed by dividing transversely the layer of deep fascia which passes from the cricoid to the isthmus of the thyroid. If the isthmus cannot be pulled downwards sufficiently, it may be divided in the middle line. All active bleeding having been arrested, the larynx is steadied by inserting a sharp hook into the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, and the trachea is opened by thrusting a short, broad-bladed knife through the exposed rings. The back of the knife should be directed downwards, and the opening in the trachea enlarged upwards sufficiently to admit the tracheotomy tube. In children it is sometimes found necessary to divide the cricoid for this purpose (laryngo- tracheotomy). The slit in the trachea is then opened up with appropriate forceps, and the outer tube inserted and fixed in position with tapes. The inner tube is not fixed, so that it may be coughed out if it becomes blocked, and that it may be frequently removed and cleaned by the nurse. The tube should be discarded as soon as the patient is able to breathe by the natural channel. Intubation of the Larynx. — This procedure is employed as a substitute for tracheotomy, especially in children suffering from membranous and oedematous forms of laryngitis. As experience is required to carry out the manipulations success- fully, and as its use is attended with certain risks which necessitate that the surgeon should be constantly within call, the operation is more adapted to hospital than to private practice. O’Dwyer’s apparatus is that most generally employed. The operation consists in introducing through the glottis, by means of a specially constructed guide, a small metal or vulcanite tube furnished with a shoulder which rests against the false vocal cords. The part of the tube which passes beyond the vocal cords is bulged to prevent it being coughed out. A simpler method of attaining the same object consists in passing a gum-elastic catheter with a terminal aperture, as recommended by Macewen and Annandale. Laryngectomy.—Excision of the larynx is called for chiefly in cases of malignant disease. A preliminary tracheotomy is performed some days before, and if there are any enlarged glands in the neck these may be removed at the same time. To prevent the entrance of blood into the air-passages, the patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, or the tracheo- tomy tube may be replaced by a Hahn’s tube which, is sur- rounded by compressed sponge. A vertical incision is carried from the hyoid bone to the level of the tracheotomy wound, and at each end of this incision, horizontal incisions are made so as