138 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. pharyngeal wall and soft palate, and may lead by cicatricial contraction and adhesions to marked stenosis of the pharynx. Tuberculous lesions of the fauces and tonsils are almost in- variably secondary to tubercle of the larynx or lungs, or to lupus of the face or naso-pharynx, and rarely call for surgical treatment. Tumours.—The tonsil is frequently the primary seat of lympho-sarcoma, and of a very malignant form of round-celled sarcoma. The tumour is at first confined to the tonsil, but rapidly infiltrates the surrounding structures, encroaching upon the cavity of the pharynx and causing interference with deglu- tition and respiration. The mucous membrane soon gives way, and there is often widespread ulceration and sloughing of the tumour substance, leading to septic complications, and sometimes to serious and even fatal lnemorrhage. The patient emaciates very rapidly. The adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected, and metastases to other organs are not uncommon. In the early stages an attempt may be made to remove the growth, either through the mouth, or better perhaps through an incision curving behind the angle of the lower jaw. In this way free access is obtained, haemorrhage is more easily controlled, and the lymphatic glands can be extirpated as well as the tumour. The operation is facilitated by a preliminary tracheotomy. Fibromata, lipomata, and other benign tumours have been met with in the tonsils, but are extremely rare. Epithelioma of the back of the mouth usually implicates the fauces, soft palate, and pharyngeal wall as well as the tonsil. The squamous epithelioma is the most common form, and the disease may begin in the tonsil, the groove between the tonsil and the tongue, or in the soft palate. The naso-pharynx is seldom involved. Clinical Features.—Males suffer more frequently than females. The disease may exist for some considerable time before giving rise to marked symptoms. Attention may be drawn to it by pain and difficulty in swallowing, or by pain shooting towards the ear. In some cases enlargement of the glands behind the angle of the jaw is the first thing to attract the patient’s atten- tion. The other symptoms are very like those of epithelioma of the tongue—pain during eating or drinking, salivation and foetid breath. Sometimes fluids regurgitate through the nose, and the voice may become nasal and indistinct. As the patient is usually unable to open the mouth widely, it is seldom possible to learn much by inspection. A digital examination may reveal an irregular, hard, and ulcerated growth. The tumour is some-