CEREBRAL (EDEMA. 29 produced. Ligature of the internal carotid in the neck or of the common carotid is the only feasible treatment. Injuries of the venous sinuses sometimes result from fractures of the skull and from penetrating wounds. The lateral, superior longitudinal, and cavernous sinuses are those most frequently damaged. On account of the low pressure in the sinuses, spontaneous arrest of the haemorrhage usually takes place, and recovery ensues. In some cases, however, symptoms simulating those of meningeal haemorrhage develop. If the dura mater is torn, the blood passes into the sub-arachnoid space and may spread over the whole surface of the brain. In the presence of an open wound, the venous source of the bleeding is recognised by the dark colour of the blood and the continuous character of the stream. It is readily arrested by pressure with gauze pads. A small puncture in the outer wall of the sinus may be closed with sutures. Signs of increasing compression call for trephining. Cerebral (Edema.—After severe injuries to the head, as well as in inflammatory conditions, it is not uncommon for a diffuse oedematous infiltration of the brain substance or of the arachno- pial membrane to take place in the vicinity of the injured portion of brain. This serous exudation, on account of the natural adhesions of the arachno-pia, usually remains limited to the damaged area, but it may become general. In the former case, in addition to the symptoms of increased intra-cranial tension, there are focal symptoms varying with the site of the lesion. When situated over the motor area, the symptoms may simulate those of middle meningeal haemorrhage, from which it is only diagnosed with difficulty. The main points of difference are, that in oedema the unconsciousness and coma are less marked and are not steadily progressive, headache is very severe, and on percussion over the head there is marked tender- ness, which may be elicited even after the patient has ceased to answer questions or to take notice of his surroundings. The tenderness may extend down over the cervical spine. The knee jerks are usually diminished or absent. The condition is most common in children, and, as it tends to spontaneous cure, opera- tion is seldom called for. Wounds of the Brain.—Incised wounds of the brain usually result from sabre-cuts, and are met with chiefly in military practice. A portion of the scalp and cranium may be raised along with a slice of brain matter, and in some cases the whole flap is severed. The extent of the injury, the conditions under which it is received, and the occurrence of septic infection, render such wounds extremely dangerous.