THE THYROID GLAND. 230 When the secreting elements increase out of proportion to the stroma, numerous rounded or irregular spaces, filled with a thick, yellow, colloid material, are formed in the substance of the goitre—colloid goitre. The majority of these spaces are not larger than a pea, but one or more may enlarge and form cysts of considerable size—cystic goitre. These varieties, especially the cystic form, attain greater dimensions than any other form of goitre. When the fibrous stroma is greatly in excess—-fibrous goitre —the swelling is smaller, firmer, and shows a greater tendency to contract and compress the trachea. If the sclerosis is extreme, and the secretory tissue undergoes atrophy, myxcedema may result. In some cases the hyperplasia affects chiefly the blood-vessels of the thyroid—vascular goitre. The capillaries, veins and arteries are increased iu size and numbers, and the swelling pulsates, and increases in size when the patient makes any muscular effort. Hiemorrhagic cysts frequently develop in the substance of these goitres. In all varieties the skin is freely movable over the tumour, and the subcutaneous veins are usually large and prominent. The tumour can be moved transversely, carrying the larynx and trachea with it, but it cannot be moved vertically. It moves up and down with the larynx on deglutition—a point of great diagnostic value. When the swelling is unilateral, the larynx and trachea may be markedly displaced to the opposite side, when bilateral, they may be compressed laterally so that the air passage is reduced to a mere chink—scabbard trachea. The large vessels of the neck also may be displaced outwards, as far even as the posterior triangle. It is important to observe that the functional effects produced by the goitre bear no constant ratio to the size of the tumour. In some cases the patient only complains of the disfigurement caused by the swelling. As a rule, however, there is more or less interference with respiration. It may only be shortness of breath on exertion, or the patient may suffer from sudden and severe attacks of dyspnoea, especially when lying on the back during sleep. This may be due to the weight of the tumour pressing on the trachea, which has been softened and distorted by the goitre, or to temporary congestion and engorgement of the mucous membrane of the air passages. In these cases there is marked stridor both on inspiration and expiration, but no aphonia. In other cases the goitre presses upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve, causing spasmodic dyspnoea, hoarseness and