305 REMOVAL OF THE BREAST. the sternum to the axilla in such a way as to include all the skin overlying the mammary prominence, and to pass well beyond the tumour itself. The skin is then reflected from off the upper and lower portions of the breast, care being taken to include in the flaps as little of the supra-mammary fat as possible. The axillary fascia is then divided and the axillary vein exposed. The sternal fibres of the pectoralis major are next divided close to their insertion, and the muscle, together with the breast, dis- sected off the chest wall. The axillary fat and lymphatics are then cleared out and the fascia removed from off the pectoralis minor. The fat and glands beneath and behind the clavicle and the costo-coracoid membrane are then removed, access being gained by removing the pectoralis minor and the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major. If the supra-clavicular glands are palpably enlarged, they should be removed through a separate incision. The nerve to the serratus magnus, the subscapular nerves, and the intercosto-humeral should, if possible, be preserved. The flaps are brought together as completely as possible and sutured. A glass or rubber drainage tube may be inserted through a small opening made for the purpose in the posterior flap near the back of the axilla. This should always be done if the tumour has already ulcerated before operation. When the wound cannot be completely covered in by the flaps, the skin may be “undercut” for some distance around to enable it to be drawn over the open surface. If this is insufficient, skin grafts may be applied either at the time of the operation or later after granulations have formed. The bandage which secures the dressing should be applied firmly to prevent oozing. The arm on the affected side should not be included in the bandage, but should be abducted to a right angle with the trunk and fixed on a pillow beside the patient. In this way the patient is rendered more comfortable, and the stiffness and impairment of movement which so often occur if the arm be bound to the side may be avoided. Irremovable Tumours.—In cases in which the disease is so widespread that it is impossible to remove it completely, palliative measures must be adopted to alleviate the patient’s suffering. For example, pain may be diminished and the patient’s mind relieved by the removal of the main mass of the growth, particularly when ulceration, haemorrhage and septic complications are present. For cases otherwise inoperable, Beatson of Glasgow has sug- gested a method of treatment which consists in excising the VOL. II—20