699 ETHYL CHLORIDE. The signs of anaesthesia are almost identical with those where chloroform is employed, except that the breathing is more vigorous in type. It is important to bear in mind, however, that the mixture is weak chloroform and not strong ether, and that it must on no account be given in a close inhaler with the bag. It is quite permissible, however, to give it in a Clover’s inhaler without the bag, and this method has been largely used. Ethyl Chloride. In 1896 Carlson of Gothenburg drew attention to the fact that ethyl chloride possesses general as well as local anaesthetic properties. Since then it has been increasingly used for general anaesthesia, and is now regarded as a safe and reliable anaesthetic for minor operations. It is sold under such names as “Kelene,” “Narcotile,” and “ Somnoform,” this last being a mixture of ethyl and methyl chloride with I per cent, of ethyl bromide, but a pure preparation of ethyl chloride is best. The dose varies from three to seven cubic centimetres according to circumstances. It can be administered by spraying it into the bag of a Clover’s inhaler and attaching the face-piece, or one of the numerous special inhalers may be employed. Anaesthesia is induced in about sixty seconds, and lasts for from one to two minutes after a single administration, but the anaesthesia can be kept up by frequently repeated doses. The drug is a very rapidly acting anaesthetic, and has a not unpleasant odour. It compares favourably with nitrous oxide in these respects, and cyanosis is not a necessary accompaniment. It is a useful anaesthetic for all brief operations, and for inducing anaesthesia prior to the administration of chloroform for pro- longed ojierations. Difficulties arising during Anaesthesia.—The difficulties arising during the administration of an anaesthetic are due either to depression or failure of the circulation, or to embarrassment of the respiration. Frequently these conditions co-exist, but it will be convenient to consider them separately. Circulatory depression or failure may be due to the toxic action of the anaesthetic, or to some extrinsic cause, and not directly to overdose. For example, syncope may occur during the early stages of anaesthesia, and more particularly of chloro- form anaesthesia, from cardiac inhibition due to reflex stimulation of the vagus from the use of too concentrated a vapour. Or syncope may occur later from absorption of an overdose which