HEAD INJURIES. 15 some modification of Wagner’s operation, which consists in raising a segment of bone along with the periosteum and scalp, should be performed. An omega-shaped incision is made through the scalp and pericranium, and at each of the four angles of the area of bone so delimited a three-quarter inch disc is removed by the trephine. The openings thus made are united by means of the chisel or saw—Gigli’s wire saw is very suitable for this purpose —and the flap of bone, still attached to its periosteum, is raised. In cutting this osseous flap Cotterill lays stress on the importance of applying the saw obliquely so that the part to be lifted up is bevelled at the expense of its under surface. By attending to this detail it is possible to replace the flap without fear of its sinking below the level of the surrounding bone. The dura mater is opened by making a crucial or semilunar incision, care being taken to secure any visible vessels before dividing them. This is sometimes most conveniently done by passing a suture through the dura so as to include the vessel. In operating for cerebral tumours it is sometimes advisable, with a view to diminishing shock, that the operation should be carried out in two stages, the dura mater being exposed at the first sitting, and a day or two later an attempt made to remove the tumour. HEAD INJURIES. The comparative immunity of the brain from injury by external violence applied to the skull, and by jolting and shaking, depends upon various physical and architectural arrange- ments, among which are the density and mobility of the scalp, the dome-like shape of the skull, and the elasticity of the outer table. The numerous bones of which the skull is composed, and the buffer-like sutural membrane which unites them, the over- lapping of certain of these bones, and the internal ribs and osseous projections, with the membranes attached to them, all tend to diminish vibration. The external buttresses formed by the zygoma and the malar bone, the thick muscular pads related to these processes, act in the same direction. The mobility of the skull upon the spine, and lastly the water-bed of cerebro- spinal fluid in which the brain floats, also protect it from external injury. In all cases of injury to the head the questions which dominate the whole clinical outlook are whether or not the brain is directly damaged, and whether it is likely to become involved by septic infection.