8 CHAPTER II. THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. Anatomy and physiology—Cerebral localisation—Operation of trephin- ing. Head Injuries—Concussion—Cerebral irritation—Compres- sion-Contusion and laceration — Traumatic intra-cranial luemor- rhage : Middle meningeal haemorrhage ; Haemorrhage from internal carotid and venous sinuses—Cerebral cedema—Wounds of brain— After-effects of head injuries—Traumatic epilepsy and insanity—■ Septic complications. Surgical Anatomy.—The bones of the skull consist of an outer table which is thick, smooth, and elastic; an inner “vitreous” table which is thin and fragile ; and an intermediate, open, porous, and highly vascular layer—the diploe. The outer table is nourished chiefly from the pericranium, and transmits, by oblique or tortuous channels, the emissary veins. It varies greatly in thickness in different skulls, and in different parts of the same skull. The vitreous layer is smooth on its inner aspect, and is grooved by the middle meningeal and other arteries of the dura mater, and by the large venous sinuses. In the porous substance of the diploe branches of the middle meningeal artery anastomose freely with branches derived from the pericranial vessels. Some of its veins open into the external veins, and others into the intra-cranial sinuses, and they communicate with the emissary veins as these pass through the bone. This free intercommunication of veins explains the facility with which infective processes pass between the structures outside the skull and those within. The existence of the emissary veins permits of the withdrawal of blood from the interior of the skull by leeching, bleeding or cupping. The pericranium is thick and vascular, and is chiefly concerned in nourishing the outer table of the skull. It is firmly bound down along the lines of the sutures. The cranium is an irregularly ovoid cavity, the floor of which is broken up by various projections so as to form three separate fossae— the anterior, middle, and posterior—in which rest respectively the frontal, temporal, and occipital lobes of the brain. The posterior fossa also contains the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla. The Membranes of the Brain.—The inside of the skull is lined by the vascular dura mater which constitutes the internal periosteum, and in it run the large intra-cranial venous sinuses. Under the dura, and separated from it by a narrow space—the sub-dural space — lies the