THE INTESTINES. 448 glands are often enlarged, and it sometimes appears as if the disease had originated in these and then spread to the wall of the bowel. The condition is most frequently met with between the ages of twenty and forty, but may occur much later in life. The discovery of a tumour in the right iliac fossa or flank may be the initial feature; more commonly there is a preliminary history of griping pains with alternate diarrhoea and constipation. If the lumen of the gut is much narrowed, there are threatenings of obstruction, and in emaciated subjects visible peristalsis and distension of the ileum. Blood in the stools is exceptional. Except in very stout subjects the tumour is easily recog- nised on combined pal- pation from the flank and loin. It is firm, little sensitive, roughly cylin- drical, and its surface is uneven or bossy. The resonance over it is im- paired. At first freely movable, it tends to be- come fixed as a result of adhesions and infiltration of the mesentery. Abscess Fl?» 9i?;-TPort-10f 0t Intestine showing m form an(J jf allowed Multiple Strictures following on Tuberculous , J . ,, .Ulcers. Resected in the case of a woman, to rupture externally may set. 30 suffering from chronic intestinal cause persistent sinuses obstruction. or a faecal fistula. The disease is very chronic, and may progress slowly for years with long periods of latency unless the lumen of the bowel is encroached upon. Apart from the risks of obstruction, danger to life results from extension of the tuberculous infection. The differential diagnosis from chronic lesions in the vicinity of the appendix and from carcinoma of the caecum may be exceedingly difficult. Operative interference is indicated either because of stenosis, or because of the mere presence of the tumour, and is at first of the nature of an exploratory laparotomy. If there is doubt as to whether the lesion is tuberculous or carcinomatous, it is best to resect the bowel—in one or in two stages—if it is undoubtedly