498 PELVIC SWELLINGS IN THE FEMALE. after rupture lias occurred, and if there is reason to believe that the rupture has taken place extra-peri ton eally, and that the foetus is dead, operative interference may be delayed in the hope that absorption will take place; but if the foetus be alive, and the gestation sac increasing in size, it is safer to operate and remove the tube. The chief difficulty in the operation lies in controlling the bleeding from the placenta. Operation is also indicated for the removal of a disintegrating or decomposing foetus to avoid the risks of septic infection and of abscesses and fistuke. The practice of allowing the gestation to go on to term in the hope of saving the life of the foetus is attended with too grave risk to the mother to be justifiable, particularly as the foetus is usually imperfectly developed and is seldom viable. Uterine Fibroids.—This clinical term is applied to myo- mata and fibro-myomata of the uterus—tumours which are composed of irregularly interlacing bundles of muscular and fibrous connective tissue. They usually spring from the body of the uterus, less frequently from the cervix, as well-defined globular, or irregularly nodular growths, which are more or less completely encapsulated. They vary in size from a hazel-nut to a mass which occupies the greater part of the abdominal cavity. There may only be one tumour, but as a rule there are several. The tumour may develop under the uterine mucosa—the sub- mucous variety—projecting towards the cavity of the uterus, and showing a marked tendency to become pedunculated. The uterine cavity is enlarged, and the pedicle may become so attenuated that the fibroid is separated and cast off through the vagina. The interstitial or intra-mural variety forms in the muscular wall of the uterus, and is surrounded by normal muscular fibres. These tumours, having a more copious blood- supply, grow more rapidly than the other forms, and in their growth they tend to project towards the abdominal cavity rather than towards the uterus. The suhserous or subperitoneal varieties grow from the outer surface of the uterus under the peritoneal covering of the organ, and extend towards the abdominal cavity. They tend to become pedunculated, and to form adhesions with the abdominal walls, the omentum and the intestine. All varieties are liable to undergo degenerative changes, such as calcification or myxomatous degeneration, and to become the seat of cyst formation. Clinical Features.—In many cases these tumours attain a considerable size without giving rise to any symptoms which lead the patient to seek advice. While fibro-myomata are probably present in early life, they seldom cause discomfort till