605 LITHOLAPAXY. The lithotrite is introduced into the bladder, and when its blades are opened at the most dependent part of the organ, the stone usually falls between them, and may thus be grasped. The stone is then moved towards the centre of the cavity to ensure that the bladder wall is not included. The blades are locked and the screw action of the instrument employed to crush the stone, the pressure being increased gradually to avoid bending or breaking the blades. As the stone breaks the fragments fall to the most dependent part of the bladder and are in turn [ticked up and crushed. The stone is ultimately reduced to fragments small enough to pass through the evacuat- ing catheter, which is introduced after withdrawing the lithotrite and attached to a suction pump known as the evacuator. The latter is filled with hot boracic solution, which, when the rubber ball is compressed, is forced into the bladder, stirring up the fragments; on relaxing the pressure, the lotion is sucked back into the ball, carrying with it the fragments, which fall out of the stream and remain in a glass bottle attached to the rubber ball. When all the fragments have been extracted, the operation is completed by withdrawing the catheter. In the case of small stones, one introduction and crushing by the lithotrite is usually sufficient, but in the case of large stones, the crushing and evacuation may require to be repeated several times. To ensure that all fragments have been removed, the bladder may be searched with a sound, or, what is better, inspected with the cystoscope. In children smaller litliotrites and evacuating catheters must be employed, ranging from No. 4 upwards of the English scale. In uncomplicated cases, the patient is up and about again in the course of a week. The mortality recorded by surgeons of the Indian Army, who have a wide experience of the operation, is slightly under 4 per cent. When it is impossible to pass the instruments required by way of the meatus, the membranous urethra is opened upon a staff in the middle line of the perineum, and the largest size of lithotrite introduced through the wound into the bladder, the stone crushed, and the fragments removed through an evacuating catheter. The wound in the perineum is usually healed before the end of a week. This is known as perineal litholapaxy or Keith’s operation. When the stone is so large and so resistant to crushing that even the largest lithotrite is likely to fail, the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line as in the last procedure, and the prostate is incised sufficiently to admit the finger into the bladder. A strong straight crushing forceps or lithoclast is