268 THE CHEST. heals, the air becomes absorbed, the lung expands again, and in the course of four or live days the symptoms disappear. In many cases there is both air and blood in the pleural cavity, and the condition is known as hcemo-pneumothorax. Haemoptysis.—When spitting of blood follows upon an injury, it usually indicates a laceration of the lung substance, particu- larly when the blood appears immediately after the accident, is profuse in quantity, frothy from admixture with air, and of a bright red colour. Mere contusion of the lung, however, is sometimes followed by hmmoptysis. Surgical emphysema, or the escape of air into the subcutane- ous tissue, is frequently met with after injuries of the chest. It is more likely to follow small punctured wounds, especially if they be valvular, than extensive lacerated wounds. The air may escape directly into the tissues of the chest wall through a rent in the pleura caused by a frag- ment of broken rib or a pointed instrument. When the lung is contused while the pleura remains intact, the air may escape along the peribronchial connective tissue into the mediastinum, and thence into the root of the neck. The air is pressed out of the lung during expiration, and it may spread over a wide area of the body (Fig. 58). The skin in the emphysematous area is slightly raised and tense, and a peculiar crepitant feeling is imparted to the fingers on palpation. Near the point where the air escapes the skin is sometimes dis- coloured by extravasated blood. In some cases the air is very rapidly reabsorbed, in others it remains in the tissues for a con- siderable time. Injuries of the Pleura.—One or both layers of the pleura may be lacerated by a severe contusion of the chest wall without fracture or external wound. More frequently the tear is produced by a fragment of a broken rib. The injury may be followed by hsemothorax, pneumothorax, or subcutaneous emphysema. After such injuries there is frequently some liyperteniia of the pleura, attended with pain, friction sounds, and effusion of serous fluid Eig. 58.—Surgical Emphysema of neck, face, and arm, following severe crush of chest. The patient was a comparatively spare man. (Mr. Hotlsdon's case.)