403 STENOSIS OF PYLORUS. wearing a tight belt, and resting for some time after food. In more severe cases it is necessary to open the abdomen and separate the adhesions—gastrolysis. If the adhesions are very extensive, and their separation appears to be attended with risk of injuring the stomach wall, gastro-enterostomy should be performed. Effects of Cicatricial Contraction following Gastric Ulcer. —These include stenosis of the pylorus and hour-glass contrac- tion of the stomach. When stenosis of the pylorus results from cicatricial con- traction of an ulcer in the vicinity of this orifice, the food is obstructed in its passage and accumulates in the cavity of the stomach where it undergoes fermentation. The stomach be- comes hypertrophied and dilated to such an extent sometimes that the greater curvature may reach the level of the pubes. Peristaltic waves may be seen passing across the stomach from left to right, and splashing sounds may be elicited on palpation. The patient vomits large quantities of sour-smelling, partially digested food mixed with frothy mucus and containing large numbers of sarcinse. Treatment.—The symptoms may be palliated by careful dieting and by washing out the stomach periodically, but the condition can be cured only by operation. In some cases dilatation of the pylorus by Loreta’s or Hahn’s method, or by pyloroplasty, is sufficient, but in the majority a more satisfactory result is obtained by gastro-enterostomy. When there is reason to suspect the existence of cancer of the pylorus, the operation of pylorectomy should be performed. Loreta’s operation consists in opening the stomach near the pyloric end, and stretching the orifice by passing through it the fingers or a series of dilators. Hahn's method, which is safer and easier, consists in invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach through the pylorus by means of the forefinger; as the resistance of the sphincter is overcome, two or even three fingers may be inserted until the channel is well opened up. Pyloroplasty consists in dividing the anterior wall of the pylorus by a longitudinal incision about two inches long, and, after separating the edges of the wound widely, stitching them at right angles to the original line of incision. Hour-glass contraction of the stomach (Fig. 84) is usually a result of the cicatrization of a horse-shoe shaped ulcer in the body of the stomach, or of perigastric adhesions which fix the central area of the viscus to the anterior abdominal wall. It is frequently accompanied by some degree of stenosis of the