ETHER. 697 smooth side outwards. The chloroform is sprinkled on the inside of the mask or towel from a drop bottle, which is readily improvised by fitting an ordinary medicine phial with the sprinkler of a scent bottle. A half-dram should be sprinkled on the mask every sixty seconds until anaesthesia is complete. An important point in the induction of chloroform anaesthesia is to increase the strength of the vapour gradually until the patient gets accustomed to it, but after the first two minutes when he is losing consciousness, if he shows no tendency to resist the process, the sooner anaesthesia is established the better. If struggling occurs, the chloroform must be withdrawn until it has subsided as it is dangerous to push the drug during its con- tinuance ; six minutes may be considered a fairly reasonable time in which to induce full anaesthesia. A space of about half an inch should always be allowed to intervene between the mask and the patient’s face to allow free airway, and the chloroform should never be poured on in such quantities as to saturate the lint and cause dripping. No absolute ’rule can be given, but for the majority of operations proper anaesthesia cannot be considered present unless the following signs are observed:—(1) The breathing is automatic, like that of a person asleep, with a soft, quiet snore; (2) the conjunctival reflex is abolished; (3) the pupil is contracted and fixed, or sluggishly mobile to light; (4) muscular relaxation is complete; (5) the cough and vomiting reflexes are abolished. Ether. There are two distinct methods of administering this anes- thetic—the open and the close methods. The open method is only to be adopted in exceptional cases in which it is desirable to afford the patient easy conditions of respiration, or when there is no inhaler for the close method available, and the use of chloroform is strongly contra-indicated. Unless morphin has been injected beforehand a large amount of ether is consumed, the greater part being wasted by evaporation. A cone of felt enveloped in waterproof, or a Rendal’s mask, is most frequently used as the inhaler, but for children Schimmel- busch’s mask does quite well, two coverings of lint being used. The close method.—To administer ether by the close method involves the use of an inhaler consisting of—(1) a face-piece with a pneumatic pad or cushion ; (2) an ether chamber ; (3) a rubber bag of about one gallon capacity. There are a variety of inhalers in use, of which Clover’s and Ormsby’s may be taken as the two