PULMONARY CAVITIES. 279 made with an aspirator needle is the most certain diagnostic measure we possess. The X-rays have been found useful in a certain proportion of cases in determining the site, extent and number of cavities in the lung. Pneumotomy. -As the operative procedure is practically the same for all forms of pulmonary cavities, it may be described now. Local anaesthesia is to be preferred. The operation consists in exposing the area of lung in which the cavity is believed to lie, by an incision sufficiently large to permit of the subperiosteal resection of about three inches of two or more ribs. If no adhesions exist around the area thus exposed, the pleural cavity must be shut off before incising the lung. This is done by passing, with a fully curved Hagedorn needle, a ring of sutures through the lung substance and parietal pleura so as to bring the two layers of the pleura into apposition. The lung is then incised with a knife or thermo-cautery, the opening dilated with dressing forceps, the cavity evacuated, and drainage tubes inserted. Irrigation is not advisable. Pulmonary abscess when acute is usually a sequela of septic pneumonia. Chronic abscess may be due to the bursting of an empyema or of a hepatic abscess into the lung. The result of pneumotomy in such cases is on the whole satisfactory. Pyremic abscesses are usually multiple, and therefore not amenable to surgical treatment. Gangrene of the lung usually results from acute septic pneumonia, pulmonary apoplexy, or embolism of the terminal branches of the pulmonary artery. The gangrenous area is usually near the base, and the pleural cavity is generally protected by adhesions over or around it. The results of operation are satisfactory, particularly in cases following pneumonia. Bronchiectasis consists in a dilatation of the bronchial tubes resulting in the formation of fusiform or saccular cavities in the lung, in which secretions accumulate and decompose. It is rarely amenable to operation. Phthisical Cavities.—As incision and drainage of a tuber- culous abscess in the lung is no more likely to result in cure than similar treatment of a cold abscess elsewhere, it is not to be wondered at that so far the results of operation in this disease have been disappointing. Limited cavities in the apex of the lung have been treated by resection of portions of the overlying ribs to admit of the walls of the cavity falling in. For hydatid cysts of the lung, incision and drainage have proved highly satisfactory. Pneumonectomy.—Operations for the removal of tuberculous