171 MALFORMATIONS. physiologically active, as their removal has been followed by myxcedeina. The cysts are lined with ciliated epithelium and have thyroid gland tissue in their walls. These growths occupy the dorsum of the tongue, and extend from the foramen caecum backwards towards the epiglottis. They are of a bluish-brown or dark red colour. As the walls of the cysts are very vascular, they are liable to repeated attacks of haemorrhage. The blood may fill the cyst, causing it to become suddenly enlarged, or the cyst may burst and the blood escape into the mouth. These variations in size and repeated attacks of bleeding help to dis- tinguish thyro-glossal cysts from other swellings of the tongue. Treatment is only called for when the swelling causes interference with speech or swallowing. The tumours are then removed by dissec- tion. Malformations. — Com - plete or partial absence of the tongue is exceedingly rare. Occasionally the fore part of the tongue is bifid. The function of the organ is not interfered with, and the opera- tion of paring and suturing the two halves is only called for to remove the disfigure- ment. Congenital tongue-tie is a condition in which the tip of the tongue is bound down to the floor of the mouth by an abnormally short and narrow frenum, or by folds of mucous membrane on each side of the frenum. The patient is unable to protrude the tongue. This deformity is rare. It is very common, however, for parents to blame an imaginary tongue-tie when a child is slow to begin to speak, or when he speaks in- distinctly or stammers, and surgeons are frequently requested to divide the frenum under such circumstances. In the vast majority of cases nothing is found to be wrong with the frenum. This fact is emphasised because haemorrhage, septic complications, deforming cicatricial contraction, and other untoward effects have followed the needless division of the frenum. In the rare cases of true tongue-tie the shortened bands should be divided close behind the incisor teeth, and the cut surfaces prevented Fig. 47.—Thyro-glossal Cyst in girl, aet. 10.