MANUAL OF SURGERY CHAPTER I. THE SCALP. Surgical anatomy—Injuries: Contusion; Hcematoma; Cephal-hcematoma; Wounds ; Avulsion—Diseases : Inflammatory conditions ; Cystic and solid tumours ; Air-containing swellings ; Vascular tumours. Surgical Anatomy. — Between the dense, hair-bearing skin, and the epicranial aponeurosis, or tendinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle, is a network of firm, fibrous tissue, in the meshes of which lies some dense granular fat. So intimate is the connection between these structures that they practically constitute a single layer, and move together as one. The occipito-frontalis muscle with its aponeurosis ex- tends from the superciliary ridge in front to the superior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and laterally to the level of the zygoma, where it blends with the temporal fascia. It moves freely on the subjacent peri- cranium, from which it is separated by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. The vascular supphy of the scalp is derived from the supra-orbital, temporal, posterior auricular, and occipital arteries, the terminal branches of which ramify freely in the subcutaneous tissue before entering the dense integument of the scalp. The main branches all run towards the vertex of the skull, and incisions should, as far as possible, be directed parallel to them. The venous return is through the frontal, temporal, and occipital veins. These have free communications, through the emissary veins, with the intra-cranial sinuses, and by these routes infective conditions of the scalp may readily be transmitted to the interior of the skull. The supra-trochlear, supra-orbital, and auriculo-temporal branches of the fifth nerve, together with the great and small occipital nerves, supply the scalp with sensation, while the muscles of the scalp are supplied from the seventh cranial nerve. The lymphatic vessels pass to the parotid, occipital, mastoid, and sub-maxillary groups of glands, the different areas of drainage being ill-defined. VOL. II—1