AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR, 189 elliptical portion of skin and cartilage from the posterior surface of the pinna and uniting the cut edges with sutures. Abnor- mally large ears may be diminished in size by the removal of a V-shaped portion from the upper part of the auricle. The term licematoma auris is applied to a sub-pericliondrial effusion of blood, which may occur either as the result of injury to the auricle, for example, in football players, or as a result of trophic changes in the cartilage and perichondrium. The latter form is not uncommon among the insane. A more or less tense fluctuating swelling forms on the anterior surface of the auricle, presenting in some cases a distinctly bluish discoloration. In- flammation may ensue, and in some cases suppuration and even necrosis of cartilage may follow. The treatment in a recent case consists in applying cold or elastic compression with cotton wool and a bandage, or in with- drawing the effused blood by means Qf an aspirator. In the event of suppuration supervening, incision and drainage upon general surgical principles must be carried out. Epithelioma and rodent cancer may occur on the auricle and extend along the external auditory meatus. The parotid lym- phatic glands are liable to be infected early in cases of epithelioma. The treatment consists in removing the growth freely and in excising the enlarged glands. This may involve sacrificing the facial nerve. In inoperable cases the X-rays may be employed. Impaction of Wax or Cerumen.—Hypersecretion may result from unknown causes, or it may accompany or be induced by the discharge from a chronic middle-ear suppuration. The association of these two conditions should be borne in mind. An accumula- tion of wax may be caused by the too zealous attempts of the individual to keep the ear clean, the wax being forced into the narrow deeper part of the meatus. The chief symptom of impacted wax is deafness, which is often of sudden onset. Impaction of wax causes deafness only when the lumen of the auditory canal becomes completely occluded by the plug. Tinnitus aurium and vertigo are sometimes present, and may be very troublesome if the wax rests upon the tympanic membrane. Pain is occasionally complained of, and is usually due to the pressure of the plug upon an inflamed area of skin. Certain reflex symptoms, such as coughing and sneezing, have been met with. It is only by an objective examination of the ear that the diagnosis can be made. The plug varies in colour and consist- ence, and may be yellow, brown or black in appearance.