672 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. with in men above forty years of age. A tense rounded or pyriform swelling, varying in size from a lien’s to a turkey’s egg, can be recognised above and behind the testis, to which it is attached and with which it moves. The tumour grows slowly and insidiously, and in its earlier stages is liable to be mistaken for a supernumerary testis. It is, however, devoid of testicular sensation and may be translucent. Some- times these growths give rise to severe and persistent neuralgic pains. The treatment consists in tapping the swelling and applying pressure. If this fail the cyst should be excised. Hydrocele of the Cord.—The most common form of hydro- cele of the cord is the encysted hydrocele—a condition in which serous fluid accumulates in an unobliterated portion of the pro- cessus vaginalis. This process may be occluded only at its upper and lower ends, in which case the hydrocele forms a single cyst extending from near the internal abdominal ring almost to the top of the testis, and occupying the inguinal canal and upper part of the scrotum. When only a short segment of the process remains patent, the cyst is correspondingly circum- scribed. Sometimes the obliteration is irregular and several small cysts develop. As the right processus vaginalis closes later and less com- pletely than the left, encysted hydrocele of the cord, like other conditions depending upon the non-closure of this peritoneal tube, is more common on the right than on the left side. It may develop at any age, but is most frequently met with in young children. The swelling is ovoid, smooth, tense and elastic. In some cases it may be shown to be translucent, but from its position inside the comparatively thick coverings of the cord this test is not of great value, particularly in fat children. By traction on the testis the swelling may be capable of being- pulled down towards the scrotum, and pushed well into the inguinal canal, but it does not enter the abdominal cavity. It may receive an apparent impulse on coughing, and so simulate an inguinal hernia, an affection with which it is often confused. Not infrequently the two conditions are present together. Treatment.—As the swelling frequently disappears spontane- ously, no treatment is called for in young infants unless the cyst is increasing rapidly in size and giving rise to discomfort. Tapping the hydrocele and applying firm pressure frequently effects a cure. The most satisfactory method of treatment is complete excision of the cyst. Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord.—The connective tissue of the