THE URINARY BLADDER, 610 retention or incontinence. Not infrequently the tumour can be recognised on bimanual examination, and the bladder may form a prominent tumour above the pubes resembling the over-distended organ, but on passing the catheter only an ounce or two of urine escapes. Removal is usually out of the question ; the symptoms are best relieved by supra-pubic drainage. Pouches, Diverticula, and Cysts of the Bladder.—Acquired pouches or cysts are usually the result of obstruction to the escape of urine, and are met with in the form of hernial pro- trusions of the mucous membrane through the spaces between hypertrophied bundles of muscular fibres. Small pouches are comparatively common in cases of urethral stricture and enlarged prostate, and are usually multiple. When of large size and solitary, the term cyst or diverticulum is applied. A diverticulum may be like a hen’s egg in shape and size, or it may be much larger than the bladder from which it springs, and its wall may be very thin and contain no muscle fibres. Sometimes the urine which stagnates in such diverticula decomposes, and phosphatic stone of the “ encysted ” variety results. We have observed more than one case in which a large diverticulum of the bladder was protruded at the inguinal canal, constituting one form of bladder hernia. The condition seldom gives rise to definite symptoms. In some cases the patient micturates in two stages, first passing clear urine from his bladder, and then, on making pressure over the pubes, expelling turbid urine from the diverticulum. A large diverticulum may be recognised on bimanual examination as a fluctuating tumour distinct from but fixed to the bladder. The cystoscope may demonstrate the existence of a pouch, its situation, and possibly a stone in its interior. In the majority of cases the treatment is merely directed towards complete emptying of the bladder and the prevention of bacterial decomposition. It is sometimes, however, possible to excise the diverticulum. Cystic tumours related to the bladder but derived from structures outside the organ are represented by cysts of the urachus, which are situated in the hypogastric region between the bladder and the navel; cysts derived from the prostate or seminal vesicle, which develop behind the bladder and below the level of the recto-vesical reflection of peritoneum; dermoid cysts; and hydatids. Any one of these may cause frequency of micturition and difficulty in emptying the bladder, and may be recognised on bimanual examination. Animal Parasites in the Urinary Tract.—The Filaria san-