150 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. tends to spread backward along the palate towards the tonsil. In some cases the jaw is secondarily affected by cancer spreading from the lip or face. The cervical glands are more liable to be implicated in carcinoma than in sarcoma. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for sarcoma, but in many cases it is not necessary to remove the whole of the maxilla. Where it can be done with safety, an attempt should be made to conserve the orbital plate and so prevent displacement of the eyeball. Simple tumours of the upper jaw are rare. Fibromata may originate in the periosteum or in the lining membrane of the antrum. They usually tend to assume the characters of sarcomata. The fibrous odontoma is liable to be mistaken for a fibroma of the upper jaw. Chondromata usually begin either on the nasal surface of the bone or in the antrum. Osteomata occur in two forms: the exostosis, which may be composed of cancellated or of compact tissue, and the diffuse osteoma or leontiasis ossea. Tumours of the Inferior Maxilla. —The same varieties are met with as in the upper jaw. The non- malignant forms—osteoma, chondroma and fibroma—are rare. A dentigerous cyst is frequently met with in the lower jaw It appears as a smooth, rounded, and painless swelling, usually in the region of the molar teeth. The bone gradually becomes expanded and crackles on pressure. The cyst is filled with a glairy mucoid fluid, and may contain one or more unerupted teeth (Fig. 40). The treatment consists in removing the anterior Avail of the cyst, scraping the interior, and packing the cavity Avith iodoform gauze. The myeloid tumour or myeloma is comparatively common. It develops in the interior of the bone and causes the affected segment to become expanded. It grows sloAvly, is more or less encapsulated, and therefore does not infiltrate the surrounding tissues. There is no glandular involvement, and the tumour shows little evidence of malignancy (Fig. 41). The periosteal sarcoma is the most malignant form (Fig. 42). It groAvs rapidly, and infiltrates the surrounding tissues. The Fig. 40.—Dentigerous Cyst of Lower Jaw of child, set. 4, con- taining rudimentary teeth. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)