607 PAPILLOMA. is septic cystitis, a large drainage tube is introduced and con- nected with a suction apparatus. Healing takes place in from three to six weeks. Perinea/ lithotomy is performed when the stone is impacted in the neck of the bladder, or when crushing procedures are contra- indicated by the presence of a stricture of the urethra. The available space is very limited however, and only comparatively small stones can be extracted by this route. The steps of the operation have been described under the heading of perineal cystotomy. A tube is inserted into the bladder through the perineal wound and connected with a suction apparatus. The wound heals in three or four weeks. The operation known as lateral lithotomy is no longer practised. Stone in the female is removed by litholapaxy or by supra- pubic cystotomy. Recurrence of stone may be due to failure to remove all the fragments after litholapaxy, to the descent of another stone from the kidney, or to the formation of a fresh phosphatic stone in the bladder. The last is the most frequent and usually occurs in men over sixty with enlarged prostate, pouching of the bladder and septic cystitis; in such cases, therefore, it is essential that treatment should be directed not only to the removal of the stone, but also of those conditions which are liable to result in the formation of fresh concretions. Tumours of the Bladder. The commonest innocent tumour is the papilloma, which projects from the mucous membrane into the interior of the bladder. In its typical form it appears as a villous growth whose long thread-like processes are floated out like seaweed when the organ is filled with fluid. The purely innocent variety is usually pedunculated, and is situated in the vicinity of the trigone, and although solitary in the first instance, it is common to find one parent tumour with a number of satellites around it, or the entire mucous membrane may be studded with villous growths, suggesting a local contagiousness like that observed in papillomata of the skin. A warty form of papilloma, resembling the cauliflower growths of the skin, is also met with ; it is more commonly sessile and solitary, and is more prone than the villous growth to acquire malignant characters. The outstanding clinical feature is hsematuria, which comes on suddenly without apparent cause, and without any other urinary symptom, and after lasting for a variable period disappears as