429 INTUSSUSCEPTION. ditions. Gangrene is most frequent and most extensive in the acute form, and usually appears first in the middle tube. The whole intussusceptum may become gangrenous, and may, after separation at the neck of the tumour, be discharged by the rectum as a blackisli-green, tubular slough, varying in length from a few inches to several feet. Recovery has occasionally followed upon separation and extrusion of the gangrenous bowel. Ulceration and gangrene of the sheath is rare. In chronic cases the gangrene may be limited to the mucous membrane in the region of the apex. The etiology of intussusception has been the subject of much controversy. The view most commonly held is that while a segment of gut is in a condition of spasmodic contraction, the flaccid gut below is drawn up over it by the contraction of the longitudinal muscular fibres. Once the invagination has commenced, its increase is probably due to exaggerated peri- stalsis forcing the intussusception farther along the bowel. Clinical facts support this supposed association of intussuscep- tion with disturbance of the normal peristaltic movements, for example, its following upon the taking of indigestible food, and upon attacks of colic and diarrhoea in children in whom the bowel is exceptionally irritable. The frequency of intussuscep- tion at the ileo-csecal junction is due partly to the difference in size, mobility, and activity of the ileum and caecum respectively, and partly to the rigid nature and sphincter-like action of the ileo-csecal valve. The ileo-csecal orifice may be compared to the anal orifice, and intussusceptions in the region of the valve to prolapse of the rectum (Leichtenstern). Clinical Features of Acute Intussusception in Children.—This condition forms the most common variety of obstruction to which children are liable. Considerably over 50 per cent, are met with during the first ten years of life, and about 25 per cent, during the first twelve months. Male children are more often affected than female. A history of colicky attacks probably indicates the previous occurrence of slight degrees of intussuscep- tion which have been recovered from. An acute attack is usually ushered in by the child suddenly screaming or crying out, turning pale, and vomiting ; a normal motion may be passed soon after the onset of the attack. Attacks of pain recur at frequent intervals, and after some hours blood and mucus are passed by the rectum. Between the attacks of pain the child is quiet and listless, or may be apparently quite well. The pulse and temperature are usually normal. On examination a cylindrical or sausage-shaped tumour, curved with