172 THE TONGUE. from reuniting by frequent packing with gauze or gentle stretching with the tip of the finger. Excessive length of the frenum is occasionally met with, and in young children may allow of the tongue falling back into the throat and causing sudden suffocative attacks which may prove fatal. In some cases the patient is able voluntarily to fold the tongue back behind the soft palate. Macroglossia is the term applied to a variety of conditions in which the tongue becomes unduly large. The typical form— lymphangiomatous macroglossia—is due to a dilatation of the lymphatic spaces of the tongue. It is often congenital, and may affect the whole or only a part of the tongue. The enlargement may be progressive from the first, or may remain stationary for years, and then begin to develop somewhat suddenly, sometimes after an injury or as a result of some inflammatory condition. The treatment consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue. In certain cases of macroglossia in children the lesion has been found to be a fibromatosis of the nerves of the tongue allied to the plexiform neuroma. Atrophy of the tongue is rare as a congenital condition. Hemi-atrophy occurs in various diseases of the central nervous system, as well as after injuries and diseases implicating the hypoglossal nerve. Nervous Affections of the Tongue.—Neuralgia confined to the distribution of the lingual nerve is comparatively rare. It usually yields to medical treatment, but in inveterate cases it is sometimes necessary to resect the nerve. It is more common to meet with a condition in which the patient complains of severe burning or aching pain in the region of the foliate papilla, which is situated on the edge of the tongue just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. The patient is usually a middle-aged woman, decidedly neurotic, and often with a gouty or rheumatic tendency. The pain, for which it is seldom possible to discover any cause, is usually worst at night, and may last for months, or even years. The practical importance of the condition is that, as the foliate papilla is prominent and red, it is very liable to be mistaken on super- ficial examination for commencing epithelioma. An inspection of the opposite side of the tongue, however, will reveal an exactly similar condition which is not painful. The first and most important step in treatment is to assure the patient that the condition is not cancerous. Potassium bromide and anti-gouty