158 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. ancl is generally bilateral. The condyle is usually hypertrophied and distorted in the earlier stages of the disease. In the later stages it may be worn away and almost completely disappear. The glenoid cavity is correspondingly broadened and flattened, and in time may be filled up by new bone. Osteophytic out- growths form around the joint and lead to fixation or locking. The meniscus almost always disappears. The enlarged condyle may be felt in front of the ear, and there is pain and creaking on movement. The pain is worst at night and in wet weather. The jaw is usually depressed and the chin protruded. The disease runs a very chronic course, with occasional acute exacerba- tions. Excision of the condyle may be advisable when non- operative measures have failed to give relief. Closure or Fixation of the Jaw.—It is necessary to distinguish between temporary and permanent fixation of the jaw. Temporary fixation is due to spasmodic contraction of the muscles of mastication, particularly the masseter. This may be symptomatic of some inflammatory condition in the vicinity, such as a pyogenic affection of the lower jaw—for example, that associated with a carious root, or an unerupted wisdom tooth, parotitis, or tonsillitis. In such cases the spasm passes off on the removal of the cause. It is occasionally hysterical. Temporary fixation may be due to rheumatic or syphilitic myositis, and this is sometimes followed by fibroid degeneration of the muscle, rendering the fixation permanent. Permanent fixation may be due to a variety of causes. Fibroid degeneration of muscles following myositis has already been mentioned. Much more frequently it results from cica- tricial contraction of the soft parts of the face or mouth following such conditions as cancrum oris, ulceration, or burns. Ankylosis of the joint, as a result of fracture or dislocation, or of any of the forms of arthritis, is also a common cause. The ankylosis may be fibrous or osseous, and may be intra- or extra-articular. The clinical features vary with the degree of separation of the jaws. There is always some deformity, and more or less interference with mastication and speech. Owing to the patient’s inability to cleanse the mouth, particles of food lodge and de- compose there, causing irritation of the mucous membrane and foetor of the saliva and breath. When osseous ankylosis occurs in children, it leads to an arrest of development of the lower jaw. Treatment.—When the cause of the fixation is in the joint itself, the best treatment is to resect one or both condyles. An incision is made along the lower border of the zygoma. The parotid gland is retracted along with the branches of the facial