421 STRANGULATION BY BANDS. Hernia into the fossa duodeno-jejimalis is the commonest form of retro-peritoneal hernia. This fossa occurs in about 50 per cent, of bodies. It is formed by a reflection of the peritoneum at the duodeno-jejunal junction, and it lies immediately to the left of this, its orifice looking upwards. The gut as it enters the-fossa pushes the peritoneal lining in front of it, so as to form a sac which lies behind the posterior parietal peritoneum. The usual contents are small intestine, and when they are strangulated the constriction is produced by the margins of the orifice of the sac. It is seldom diagnosed except by an exploratory laparotomy. The only treatment is by operation, the con- tents being reduced and the neck of the sac obliterated. In hernia into the foramen of Winslow a portion of the intestine passes through the foramen into the lesser sac of peritoneum. In inter- sigmoid hernia the bowel is thrust into the inter-sigmoid fossa, which is a funnel-shaped depression between the layers of the pelvic meso-colon. In periccecal hernia the bowel is thrust into one or other of the pouches met with in the region of the ileo-csecal junction. Strangulation byBandsor through Abnormal Apertures.—The com- Fig. 91.—Diaphragmatic Her- monest form of band is a stretched nia. The intestines, with the adhesion between two peritoneal sur- stomach and spleen, occupied r mi i n. the left pleural cavity, faces. I he band has usually two points of attachment, One of which Gaatomical^M^seum^University is nearly always to the mesentery, frequently over a diseased mesenteric gland, while the other is to the parietal peritoneum, to another part of the mesentery, or to one of the abdominal or pelvic viscera. Bands vary greatly in length, and those which result from antecedent peritonitis are frequently multiple. An adherent portion of the lower border of the great omentum may be formed into a band by the dragging and rolling move- ments of the bowels. An omental band frequently develops in