273 PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. seen. Chondromata and osteomata are occasionally met with growing from the ribs and sternum. Of primary malignant tumours the sarcoma and the chondro- sarcoma are the most common types. The former occurs most frequently in the sternum, attacking patients in middle life, and being very vascular and pulsatile, it is liable to be mistaken for a thoracic aneurysm eroding the bone. The chondro-sarcoma usually appears on the ribs near their junction with the cartilages, and is met with chiefly in early adult life. Both forms tend to spread towards the thoracic cavity and rapidly implicate the pleura, lungs, or diaphragm. They are comparatively painless, and may present few physical signs even when the thoracic viscera are extensively invaded. In some cases the position and extent of the growth may be recognised by skiagraphy, in others these points can only be determined by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—If, on exploration, it is found that the parietal pleura alone is involved, the removal of the tumour may be undertaken. The soft parts are reflected by turning up a large U-shaped flap, and the ribs divided well beyond the limits of the growth, which is then rapidly removed. The lung usually collapses, but if the flap be accurately stitched in position so that the cavity is completely closed, it expands again in the course of a few hours. The chest wall may be invaded secondarily by a sarcoma originating in the pleura or lung, or by a carcinoma of the breast. Pleural Effusions.—An effusion into the pleural cavity may be serous, sero-fibrinous, or purulent, and the fluid may collect in a localised area of the pleural sac shut off by adhesions, or may occupy the whole cavity. Serous and sero-fibrinous effusions are usually due to pleurisy, tuberculous disease of the pleura, or injuries of the chest. The fluid is usually reabsorbed, but when it persists, or exerts injurious pressure on the lung, or displaces the heart and impedes its action, it may be withdrawn. This is clone by means of the aspirator, the needle being inserted in the seventh or eighth interspace a little outside the angle of the scapula. Rapid withdrawal of the effusion is to be avoided, as it may induce bleeding from the inflamed and vascular pleura or lung tissue, may give rise to syncope from too sudden diminution of the intra-thoraeic pressure, or may occasion acute oedema of the lung. Hydrothorax is a condition in which, as a result of extreme feebleness of the circulation in advanced stages of cardiac, renal VOL. II—18