340 CHAPTER XXIV. APPENDICITIS. Surgical anatomy—Pathological anatomy : Catarrhal changes : Erosions ; Strictures; Concretions; Necrosis; Perforation; Bacteria concerned; Adhesive peritonitis ; Circumscribed suppurative peritonitis or peri-ap- pendicular abscess ; Diffuse peritonitis ; Clinical features ; Phenomena dependent on inflammation of the appendix itself; Peri-appendicular peritonitis with swelling or abscess formation ; Diffuse peritonitis and peritoneal scpticccmia ; Diagnosis ; Prognosis ; Treatment; Expectant measures ; Indications for operation ; Recurrent appendicitis. Surgical Anatomy.—The vermiform appendix is a short, narrow, blind tnbe arising from the inner and back part of the caecum about three- quarters of an inch below the ileo-csecal junction. Its length varies, the average being about two and a half to three inches. Its origin from the caecum is indicated approximately on the surface of the abdomen by a point about two inches from the anterior superior iliac spine on a line between this and the umbilicus—the so-called M‘Burney’s point. The lie or direction of the appendix is subject to considerable variation. It has been found in every possible situation which its length -would allow it to attain. The commonest directions in which it points are— (1) Upwards and inwards, being overlapped by the lower end of the ileum and its mesentery. This is the situation in which it is most frequently found in operating for the removal of the organ, and is that associated with the classical signs of appendicitis. (2) Downwards over the brim of the pelvis, when it is liable to be associated with what has been aptly termed pelvic appendicitis, the inflammatory swelling being best observed by rectal or vaginal examination. (3) Upwards behind the caecum, in which position it is associated with retro-caecal appendicitis, in which the infection frequently spreads to the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, and is more likely to be shut off from the general peritoneal cavity than in any of its other situations. The anterior longitudinal muscular band of the caecum affords the surest guide to the appendix, the base of which can be located with certainty by following this band to its lower termination. The appendix is completely covered by peritoneum, and lias a well- formed mesentery which connects the process to the under surface of the mesentery belonging to the lower end of the ileum. The meso-appendix varies in length, in some cases extending to the tip of the organ, in others terminating about its middle.