G37 GONORRHOEA. under its influence one after another, and, finally, the lips of the meatus are pressed together so as to retain the fluid for two or three minutes. The injections are repeated twice daily or more frequently. The irrigation of the posterior urethra should not be entrusted to the patient. More dilute solutions are employed, and the syringe must be powerful enough to overcome the resistance of the compressor urethrae, which is easily done if the urethra is cocainised to start with. We do not recommend irrigation by means of catheters with or without backward flow, as they are liable to be followed by prostatitis or epididymitis. All injec- tions should be continued for several days after the discharge has entirely disappeared, and until the urine no longer contains thread-like filaments of pus. The Continental test as to whether the disease is cured or not is the capacity of the patient to drink beer without causing a return of the discharge ; a more accurate test is to provoke a fresh discharge by an injection of nitrate of silver (1-100) or corrosive sublimate, and examine films for gonococci. Marriage must be for- bidden until every trace of the infection has disappeared. Complications of Gonorrhoea. — Gonorrhoeal affections of the bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, prepuce, inguinal lymphatic glands, joints and tendon sheaths, are described elsewhere. Peri-urethral abscess is the result of a superadded pyogenic infection of the glands opening into the urethra. When it occurs in relation to those opening into the fossa navi- cularis the local signs are obvious, and the abscess discharges into the urethra or is incised through the prepuce. In the penile urethra the abscess is easily palpated from the under surface of the penis, and should be opened early from this aspect to prevent urinary fistula. Abscess originating in Cowper’s glands is a late complication, and tends to point towards the perineum; if not treated by incision it may lead to a urinary fistula in the perineum. Gonorrhoeal pycemia is a rare condition attended with severe and repeated rigors, and sometimes with endocarditis; it is supposed to originate in a phlebitis of the veins of the corpora cavernosa or in those surrounding the prostate. Gleet.—This term is applied to the condition in the male when a gonorrhceal discharge persists indefinitely. The dis- charge is small in amount, is observed chiefly in the morning, and consists of a clear or milky mucus or muco-pus. It is due to the persistence of gonorrhceal inflammation in localised areas