198 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. hours of the injury the swelling is often so great as to obscure the nature of the deformity and to render the diagnosis difficult. Subcutaneous emphysema is not a common symptom. When it occurs, it is usually due to the patient blowing his nose. The lateral cartilages may be separated from the nasal bones and give rise to clinical appearances which simulate those of fracture. Sometimes the septum alone is displaced laterally, giving rise to symptoms of nasal obstruction. Treatment.—As the bones unite rapidly it is of great importance that any displacement be reduced without delay, and to facilitate this a general anaesthetic should be administered, or the nasal cavity sprayed with cocain. The bones can usually be levered into position with the aid of a pair of dressing forceps passed into the nostrils, the blades being protected with rubber tubing. After the fragments have been replaced and the septum moulded into position, it is seldom necessary to employ any retain- ing apparatus, but the patient must be warned against blowing or otherwise handling his nose. In some cases it is advisable to apply pads of gauze to each side of the nose and to fix them in position with strips of adhesive plaster passing from one cheek to the other. If the fragments tend to sink down, they may be supported by moulding a soft lead or gutta-percha splint over the nose and transfixing the splint and the fragments with one or more hare-lip pins. These may be removed on the fourth or fifth day. Appliances introduced into the nose—such as gauze pads, rigid tubes or hollow plugs—are only indicated when the septum is so severely injured that the nose collapses. They are to be avoided if possible, as they are uncomfortable and interfere with proper cleansing and drainage of the nose. The inside of the nose should be smeared with vaseline to prevent crusting of blood, and the nasal cavities should be frequently irrigated. Deformities of the Nose.—The most common deformity is that known as the sunken-bridge or saddle nose. It is most frequently a result of inherited syphilis, the nasal bones being imperfectly developed, and the cartilages sinking in so that the tip of the nose is turned up and the nostrils look directly forward. The bridge of the nose may sink in also as a result of necrosis of the nasal bones, particularly in tertiary syphilis, and less frequently from tuberculous disease. A similar, but as a rule less marked, deformity may result from fracture of the nasal bones or from displacement of the cartilages. When the condition is due to mal-union of a fracture, it may be possible to restore the contour of the nose by dividing the bones with the chisel through a small incision in the skin, and