304 THE BREAST. Adeno-carcinoma.—Under this term Halsted has described a tumour of the breast which is made up of “ large tubular spaces lined with many layers of epithelial cells.” The condition is usually met with in women between fifty-five and sixty years of age. The tumour is larger, softer and more vascular than an ordinary scirrhus, and it tends to fungate through the skin, forming a pedunculated swelling. The axillary glands are seldom, if ever, implicated, and the tumour is much less malignant than the common forms of carcinoma. Acute, Encephaloid, or Medullary Cancer.—In this form of carcinoma the epithelial elements predominate, while the stroma is scanty, soft and vascular. From the rapidity of growth of the tumour the condition is sometimes spoken of as “ acute cancer.” The terms “ encephaloid ” and “ medullary ” refer to the soft, homogeneous, brain-like appearance of the tumour on section, but as this appearance is also seen in sarcomata, and in other forms of tumours as a result of mucoid and haemorrhagic degeneration, these terms are liable to lead to confusion. Acute cancer is usually met with in women below the age of thirty, and in many cases appears during pregnancy or lactation. A hard, brawny swelling forms in the breast, and rapidly in- creases in size till the whole gland is implicated. The skin over the breast is invaded early and assumes a characteristically coarse “ orange-peel like ” appearance, and outlying nodules of cancer soon appear over the skin of the chest wall. Involve- ment of the axillary glands takes place soon after the tumour appears, and the disease usually proves fatal from metastatic growths within a few months of the onset. When the disease occurs during lactation, the skin is red and hot, and as there is a general rise of temperature, the condition is liable to be mistaken for mastitis or a mammary abscess. The prognosis is so un- favourable that operation is seldom to be recommended. Treatment of Cancer of the Breast.—The only treatment is complete removal of the breast and of all the adjacent tissues to which the disease is liable to spread. The researches of Heidenliain and Stiles have shown that in order to prevent local recurrence of the disease it is necessary to remove (1) the tumour, together with the whole of the mammary gland, the skin over it, and the surrounding fat; (2) the fascia covering the pectoral and other muscles on which the breast lies; (3) the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major muscle; (4) tire fat, lymphatic vessels and glands in the axilla and in relation to the pectoralis minor and costo-coracoid membrane. Elliptical or angular incisions are carried from the edge of