THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 6G2 through the blood - stream, as in mumps, typhoid fever, or general septic conditions, or in gout or rheumatism. In the former group the main incidence of the inflammation is on the epididymis, and epididymitis results, while in the latter the body of the testis is chiefly involved, constituting an orchitis. Acute Epididymitis. — Acute Epididymitis of Urethral Origin. — The most common way in which an acute epi- didymitis originates from the urethra is by direct spread of an acute gonorrhoeal urethritis along the ejaculatory duct and vas deferens. Other forms of urethritis, such as result, for example, from the passage of instruments, may give rise to acute epididymitis. Gonorrhoeal Epididymitis.—This, the most common form of acute epididymitis, occurs in about one in every ten cases of gonorrhoea. It is usually met with during the third, fourth, or fifth weeks of the gonorrhoea, but may occur at much later periods, and even after all urethral discharge has ceased. The condition is usually unilateral; when it is bilateral the second gland is attacked while the inflammation in the other is subsid- ing. Although essentially due to direct spread of infection from the posterior urethra, the attack may be determined by excessive exercise, such as a long walk or cycle ride, by exposure to cold or damp, or by injections into the posterior urethra. Clinical Features.—The attack begins with swelling and tenderness of the spermatic cord, and an aching pain which shoots towards the inguinal region and pelvis. The temperature rises, sometimes with a rigor, and the patient feels feverish and ill. There may be sickness and vomiting, and the bowels are usually constipated. On palpation the cord is found to be thickened, as a result of swelling of the vas and oedema of the connective tissues, and, it may be, congestion and thrombosis of the veins. The globus minor of the epididymis next becomes enlarged and painful, and the swelling soon spreads to the body and globus major, with the result that there develops behind the body of the testis a crescentic or C-shaped swelling. The exact shape and disposition of this swelling is sometimes obscured clinically by an effusion of fluid into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis—acute hydrocele. The body of the testis is seldom implicated. The pain in the epididymis is severe and interferes with sleep, and handling of the parts causes a peculiar sickening sensation. With the onset of the epididymitis the urethral discharge ceases, and it remains absent as long as the inflammation lasts. On rectal examination, the seminal vesicle and lobe of the prostate on the affected side may be found