HERNIA. 382 the umbilicus is represented chiefly by transverse fibres, and, when these are coarse in texture, irregular apertures or spaces may exist between them. Through such an aperture, the long axis of which is placed transversely, a protrusion of extra- peritoneal fat may occur, forming a small, rounded, irreducible tumour beneath the integument, and only to be distinguished from an ordinary lipoma by the fact that it is free from the skin. Such a hernia may rapidly increase in size by dragging outwards a peritoneal pouch, and so forming a hernial sac into which omentum and intestine may be protruded. These hernia: are met with chiefly in male adults above the age of thirty, midway between the umbilicus and ensiform cartilage. The long axis of the tumour is usually horizontal. They often escape notice till abdominal symptoms—griping pains, flatu- lence and vomiting — ensue. In such a hernia we have twice observed strangulation with gangrene of the loop of bowel engaged in the sharp-edged ring in the linea alba. If causing no inconvenience the hernia may be controlled by a belt, otherwise, and in our opinion as a routine procedure, Fig. 76. — Strangulated Epigastric Hernia, of many years’ duration, in an old man. The hernia was reduc- ., , ,, , , . , ■, , ible till three days before admission, ^ should he subjected to opera when it became strangulated. tion on similar lines to that performed for umbilical hernia. Hernia in the linea semilunaris is rarer than hernia in the middle line. It is met with chiefly below the umbilicus, and occurs with equal frequency in the two sexes after middle life. Direct inguinal hernia may be regarded as a variety of this form, occurring at the lowest part of the linea semilunaris. Herniae in Relation to Cicatrices of the Abdominal Wall.— These, which are often described as traumatic ventral hernice, may be found at any part of the abdominal wall which is the seat of a scar resulting from a wound or from suppuration. They are most commonly met with after laparotomy wounds below the umbilicus where primary union has not taken place. While suppuration of the wound is the most important factor in their production, the occurrence of ventral hernia may be favoured by imperfect suturing, by too early removal or absorp- tion of the sutures, by inefficient support to the wound, and too short a period of rest in the recumbent position after operation.