THE URINARY BLADDER. 608 suddenly as it came. The urine may look like burgundy owing to a uniform admixture with blood, or the discoloration may be most marked in the urine passed towards the end of the act from the compression of the delicate growth by the contracting bladder. Pain or difficulty of micturition is exceptional, and is due to mechanical blocking of the urethra by a pedunculated growth near the neck of the bladder, or by clots. The health does not suffer unless the amount of blood lost is sufficient to cause anaemia. The progress of the disease is uncertain, but it is quite common for the liaematuria to come and go over a period of years without further developments. The diagnosis is suggested by the history and is confirmed by examination with the cystoscope, a period being chosen when the urine is free from blood. The cystoscope may fail from the view being obscured by haemorrhage, or from the bladder being filled up with villous growth so that there is no cavity to illuminate. In a limited number of cases the urine may show under the microscope minute fragments of the tumour. Bimanual examination is rarely instructive in innocent tumours. In the female the cystoscope is again the chief resource in diagnosis; failing it, the interior of the bladder may be inspected with the speculum or explored with the finger. Although innocent tumours have been known to exist for many years without detriment to health, there is always the risk of malignant transformation. Treatment.—The best results are obtained when the opera- tion immediately follows upon the cystoscopic examination. In men, the bladder is opened above the pubes; the mucous membrane around the base or stalk of the tumour is outlined with the knife or scissors, and is removed along with the tumour. The “caisson” speculum is often useful. Growths near the trigone are made more accessible by a Petersen’s air- bag or by the fingers of an assistant in the rectum. Haemorrhage is arrested by irrigation with a solution of adrenalin in hot water, 1-5000, or by sponge pressure exerted directly against the bleeding area. If possible the raw surface is closed by sutures. Small, multiple villous patches may be scraped with the curette. In the female, the growth may be removed through the dilated urethra or through a supra-pubic opening. Herring recom- mends repeated injections of nitrate of silver to arrest the growth of villous tumours and to prevent recurrence after removal. Myoma, fibroma, myxoma and angioma are very rare. The commonest form of malignant disease of the bladder is a squamous epithelial cancer, which may commence as such or