290 THE BREAST. should be weaned, and the further secretion of milk arrested by the administration of saline purgatives and of potassium iodide and belladonna. The breast should be protected by a wool dressing and supported by an ascending spica bandage, the arm on the affected side being supported. If suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened and drained. It occasionally happens that an acute congestion of the breast occurs in association with an attack of mumps or of one of the other acute infective diseases. The condition is usually transient, and seldom ends in suppuration. Puerperal Mastitis and Mammary Abscess.—In a consider- able proportion of cases of acute physiological engorgement of the breast occurring in puerperal women, a suppurative inflam- mation supervenes, and ends in the production of a mammary abscess. This usually occurs in women between the ages of twenty and thirty, and as a rule during the first six weeks of lactation. Infection usually takes place through a crack or fissure of the nipple, and the organisms are derived either from the surrounding skin or from the mouth of the suckling, and gain access to the breast tissue by way of the lymphatics or along the milk ducts. The staphylococcus aureus is the organism most frequently found. The abscess may form under the areola—pre-mammary abscess ; in the substance of the breast—intra-mammary abscess ; or in the areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle—retro-mammary abscess. Clinical Features.—A pre-mammary abscess may begin as a superficial cellulitis, or as a suppurative inflammation of a sebaceous gland or mammary lobule under the areola. Pus forms rapidly, often with comparatively little pain or constitu- tional disturbance, and the abscess soon bursts through the skin. The intra-mammary abscess is the form most frequently met with. For one or two days the patient complains that a parti- cular part of the breast feels hot, tense and tender, and that on attempting to use the organ for nursing she has severe lanci- nating pain in it. Eventually the pain becomes constant, and assumes a throbbing character. The temperature may rise to 102° or 103° F., and there is usually a feeling of chilliness or even a rigor. At first there is a diffuse redness over the breast, and a deep- seated swelling, which is uniformly firm and tense, may be recognised. With the onset of suppuration the redness becomes more dusky, and over the seat of the abscess the swelling becomes soft and more prominent, until at last fluctuation can