ACUTE EPIDIDYMITIS. 663 swollen and tender. The scrotum becomes red, shiny, and oedematous, and forms a swelling about the size of a closed fist. The symptoms increase in severity for four or five days, and, after remaining at their height for two or three days, gradually subside. It is usually two or three weeks before the patient is able to go about. As the inflammation subsides the urethral discharge returns. Complications.—As a rule the inflammation subsides com- pletely, and although the inflammatory exudate may take weeks or even months to disappear, it usually does so completely. In some cases, and particularly if the source of irritation in the deep urethra persists, the patient is liable to suffer from repeated mild attacks, first in the one epididymis, and then in the other '—so-called chronic, or relapsing, or “see-saw” epididymitis. This may result in chronic induration of the epididymes and vasa deferentia, occluding the tubes and leading to sterility. Atrophy of the testis is a rare sequela of gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion. A small quantity of fluid may remain permanently in the tunica vaginalis, constituting one form of hydrocele. Suppura- tion is very rare. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotum elevated on a pillow. In the early stages, an ice-bag or evaporating lotions may be applied. When the tension in the scrotum is great, warm lead and opium or boracic fomentations are more soothing and less likely to induce sloughing of the integument. Leeches, cupping, or incision may be employed when the congestion is great and extreme tension threatens the vitality of the tissues. After the acute inflammation subsides, the induration may be dispersed by inunctions of oleate of mercury ointment, or by strapping the testis. When the patient gets up, he should wear a suspensory bandage. The administration of iodide and bicarbonate of potassium is useful in promoting absorption of inflammatory products. Epididymitis following injury of the urethra in its general features closely resembles that resulting from gonorrhoea, but is on the whole less severe. The symptoms usually come on two or three days after the passage of an instrument, but may appear suddenly within a few hours. In some cases the occurrence of these attacks interferes with the employment of the catheter in enlarged prostate. The testis is involved rather more frequently than in the gonorrhoeal form, but sterility seldom ensues. The swelling subsides very slowly and recur- rences are common.