THE THYROID GLAND. 232 the muscles is obviated by employing Kocher’s angular incision. This begins over the sterno-mastoid muscle at the level of the thyroid cartilage on the side most affected, is carried to the middle line, and thence vertically downwards towards the sternum as far as may be necessary. The fascia is divided and the muscles retracted. The tumour is exposed by dissecting from its surface the thin layer of connective tissue which overlies it. The goitre is then isolated and “ dislocated ” by passing the finger round it, care being taken that all vessels are secured before being divided or torn. Special caution is necessary in dealing with the inferior thyroid artery on account of its close connection with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The isthmus is next isolated and secured by a strong ligature as it is cut across. Finally the posterior edge of the thyroid is separated from its attachment to the trachea, care being taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerve as it passes beneath the lower border of the larynx. To ensure the safety of the nerve it is advisable to cut through the substance of the thyroid, and so leave behind the posterior part of its capsule beneath which the nerve runs. Risks of the Operation.—The administration of a general anaesthetic is attended with considerable risk, particularly when there is respiratory difficulty, and when the tumour passes behind the sternum. It is therefore advisable to perform the operation under local anaesthesia. Haemorrhage is seldom a serious risk if care be taken to expose the goitre thoroughly before beginning to isolate it, and to secure all vessels before dividing them. The risk of injuring the recurrent laryn- geal nerve has already been referred to. Care should be taken to avoid as far as possible tearing and squeezing the thyroid during the operation, as there is reason to believe that the absorption of large quantities of thyroid secretion from the divided surfaces gives rise to a condition known as acute thyroid- ism during the first few hours after operation. The symptoms of acute thyroidism are marked elevation of temperature, increase in the pulse-rate (150-200), rapid respiration with dyspnoea, flushing of the face, muscular twitchings, and mental excitement. The employment of a drainage tube for the first forty-eight hours after operation may diminish this risk. On no account may the whole of the thyroid gland be removed, as this is followed by symptoms closely resembling those of myxcedema—operative myxoedema or cachexia strmnipriva. Tetany and certain psychical disturbances are also liable to ensue after thyroidectomy. Adenomatous Goitre.—In this variety the swelling of the thyroid is mainly due to the growth within its substance of one