683 HEMATOCELE. drainage-tube is introduced through a puncture made at the bottom of the scrotum. This is removed at the first dressing. The inguinal incision is completely closed, and firm pressure is exerted on the scrotum by means of a St. Andrew’s cross bandage. Congenital hydrocele is usually met with in infants. It presents the same general characters as the ordinary hydrocele of adults, but as the processus vaginalis is patent, the fluid flows into the peritoneal cavity when the patient lies down, or can be slowly pressed back by squeezing the swelling. It differs from a congenital hernia in being dull on percussion, and in the slow and gradual way in which it is reduced without gurgling or sudden jerk. The swelling resembles a hernia in becoming tense when the patient cries or coughs. The diagnostic value of translucency is diminished by the fact that a hernia of small intestine in young children may also transmit light. Treatment.—In many cases the fluid disappears spontaneously or after a truss has been worn for some months. Simple tapping is seldom of benefit. In ^persistent cases an operation should be performed, with the double object of curing the hydrocele and preventing the development of a hernia along the open processus vaginalis. Infantile hydrocele resembles the ordinary acquired hydrocele of adults, save that the sac extends further towards the abdominal cavity, as only the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded. In some cases a constriction exists where the tunica vaginalis and the funicular process join, and the upper compart- ment of the sac becomes greatly distended and bulges, either up between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, forming a salient fluid swelling which may reach to the umbilicus, or into the iliac fossa and pelvis, where it may displace the pelvic viscera and be palpable from the rectum. This constitutes one of the forms of bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. It is treated by excising as much as possible of the sac. A condition comparable to infantile hydrocele is produced when fluid collects in a hernial sac emptied of its contents and occluded at its upper end—hydrocele of a hernial sac. Haematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—An extravasation of blood into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is spoken of as a hcematocele. The blood may be effused into a previously healthy or a chronically inflamed tunica vaginalis, or into a pre- existing hydrocele (hydro-hcematocele). Haematocele may also develop in association with malignant disease of the testis. The haemorrhage is almost always due to trauma, for example, a blow