447 TUBERCULOSIS. Intractable Colitis.—Apart from dysentery there are other forms of inflammation and ulceration which may affect the colon. The leading symptoms are diarrhoea, griping pains, and loss of flesh. The diarrhoea usually alternates with constipa- tion ; it is often offensive and associated with want of control of the sphincters. The motions may contain mucus, pus, and sometimes blood, and in a certain group of cases they contain mucous or membranous casts of the bowel. The membranous form is chiefly met with in neurotic women, and is attended with great pain on defecation. In cases which resist medical treatment great benefit usually follows irrigation carried out on the same lines as in chronic dysentery. It is a remarkable fact that in many of the recorded cases, where the operation has been carried out in two stages, decided improvement has followed the fixation of the bowel to the parietes, and before it has been opened. The fistula in the colon should be kept open for a period averaging about six months. Tuberculosis of the Intestine.—Apart from that met with in advanced phthisis, tuberculous disease of the intestine is most often met with in the ileo-csecal region, in the form of stenosis of the gut, or of a tumour in the right iliac fossa. The stenosis is most commonly due to one or more fibrous strictures which have formed in the situation of pre-existing ulcers. The stenosis may be augmented by adhesions between the affected loops of bowel, or between the bowel and the parietes. The peritoneal investment of the gut often shows miliary nodules of tubercle, and the glands in the corresponding segment of mesentery may be enlarged and caseous. The clinical features are those common to all forms of gradual stenosis and incomplete obstruction of the intestine, and it is often possible to infer the tuberculous nature of the lesion from the history and associated features of the case. If the affected coils are matted together, a sense of resistance or an ill-defined swelling is felt on palpation. The diagnosis is completed on opening the abdomen. The choice of curative procedure lies between an entero-anastomosis and a resection of the diseased segment of the gut (Fig. 99). The tuberculous ileo-ccecal tumour is a well-defined clinical type of abdominal tuberculosis. The disease is often strictly limited to the ileo-csecal segment, although it may extend for a variable distance along the ascending colon or the lower ileum. The tumour results from a great increase in thickness of the wall of the gut, and is sometimes added to by the adhesion of adjacent coils of small intestine. The associated mesenteric