OVARIAN TUMOURS. 401 adjacent structures. In some cases rupture of the cyst is followed by generalised peritonitis. Diagnosis.—The presence of a tumour springing from the . pelvis can usually be recognised by palpation and percussion of the abdomen, combined with vaginal and rectal examination. In fat women, however, errors are liable to occur, flatulent dis- tension, masses of subcutaneous fat, and so-called “ phantom tumours ” being mistaken for new growths. On the other hand, in such patients the existence of a small abdominal or pelvic tumour is liable to be overlooked. In doubtful cases the patient should be examined under an anaesthetic. In the differential diagnosis of ovarian from other forms of abdominal tumour, it is to be borne in mind that an ovarian tumour is dull on percussion over its convexity, that the dul- ness extends into the pelvis and is surrounded by a zone of resonance above and at the sides. On rectal examination the pedicle of the tumour, formed by the broad ligament, can usually be recognised ; and on vaginal examination the tumour is found to have replaced the ovary on the side from which it springs. An ovarian tumour can usually be distinguished from an over-distended bladder by the use of the catheter; from retro-peritoneal tumours by the fact that the rectum lies in front of these growths ; from a large cystic kidney by noting the tympanitic area due to the presence of the colon in front of the kidney; and from ascites by the fact that the intestines are floated up on the fluid, and the highest part of the swelling is therefore tympanitic, while the flanks are dull, and the dull area changes with the position of the patient. The ascites which accompanies papillary tumours may be readily mistaken for the ascites resulting from tuberculous disease of the peritoneum. Encysted areas of tuberculous peritonitis are very liable to be mistaken for ovarian cysts. Among the other conditions to be borne in mind may be mentioned mesenteric and pancreatic cysts, tumours of the omentum, mesentery or spleen. The pregnant uterus has also been mistaken for an ovarian tumour. Small ovarian tumours may simulate uterine or tubal growths, or faecal masses in the rectum. The chief points of difference between the various forms of ovarian cyst have already been mentioned. Treatment—Ovariotomy.—On account of the difficulty of distinguishing clinically between benign and malignant growths, it is advisable to remove all ovarian tumours as soon as they are diagnosed, provided the general condition of the patient warrants the operation. Early extirpation is further