528 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. had not been completely emptied. This causes excessive straining which aggravates the condition, and the external sphincter becomes hypertrophied and indurated. When internal piles coexist, bleeding and pain are usually present. The treatment of this variety consists in removing the piles. The term venous or thrombotic, pile is applied to a condition in which an extravasation of blood takes place around one of the perianal veins which has been ruptured by violent straining of any kind, for example, during defecation or in making some severe muscular effort. The effused blood forms a small, rounded, tense, bluish swelling just beneath the skin or muco- cutaneous surface. At first the swelling is soft, but later, when the blood coagulates and the connective tissue around it becomes condensed, it becomes firm. This condition is sometimes supposed to be due to thrombosis occurring in a varicose vein, but this is. seldom the true explanation. At the moment of rupture the patient experiences a sharp, pricking pain, as if something had given way in the vicinity of the anus. This is immediately followed by the appearance of a swelling, which is painful and tender. The acute pain soon subsides and gives place to a dull feeling of tension, which in the course of a week or ten days disappears. In some cases the swelling also disappears, in some a fibrous nodule remains, and iu others infection of the clot takes place and a perianal abscess forms. The treatment consists in making an incision over the ! swelling and turning out the clot. The wound usually heals in two or three days. A third condition, sometimes, but erroneously called the “ connective-tissue external pile,” is met with in the vicinity of the anus. It consists merely in an hypertrophied tag of peri- anal skin—the so-called “dog-ear pile.” It does not contain any varicose vein, and is, strictly speaking, not a pile at all. The ] swelling causes itching and irritation around the anus, and may become infected and give rise to a perianal abscess. Such swellings are frequently found at the lower end of a fissure, and constitute the so-called sentinel pile. These tags of skin should be snipped off with scissors, the bleeding being arrested by forceps and a ligature or suture, j Under an antiseptic dressing the wound rapidly heals. Tumours. — Tumours of the rectum may be simple or malignant, and transitional forms are met with which it is impossible to place definitely in either class. Innocent Tumours.-—From the fact that the majority of