THE URINARY BLADDER, 594 Clinical Features.—These vary according to the cause of the cystitis and the conditions associated with it. Frequently recurring spasmodic contraction of the bladder is the dominating feature in acute cystitis, the patient complaining of frequent, urgent, and painful micturition. The pain is most marked at the end of the act, and is felt in the hypogastrium and radiating along the urethra. The spasm at the neck of the bladder may be so great that the organ is imperfectly emptied, and the tension of its contents raised, thus favouring the spread of the infection to the ureters. The urine is turbid, and on standing deposits flakes of fibrin, shed epithelium, red blood corpuscles, bacteria, and abundant leucocytes and pus corpuscles. In acid urine the pus appears as a light, floating cloud or as a dense greyish deposit. In ammoniacal urine the pus corpuscles fuse together into a viscid, semi-translucent mass which entangles the other suspended matters and sinks to the bottom of the vessel. The recently passed urine should be centrifuged and films of the deposit stained for organisms. In gangrenous cystitis the urine contains shreds of necrosed mucous membrane, and is brown and putrid. Chronic cystitis may follow on the acute variety, or may commence insidiously; in the latter case it is almost invariably a complication of an already existing affection of the urinary organs, such as stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. It then develops very gradually, the most prominent feature being the presence of pus in the urine, chiefly passed in the last one or two ounces, as may be demonstrated by the three glass test. This condition may come and go for a period of years with occasional acute exacerbations attended with pain and frequency of micturition. If, from the presence of staphylococci or other urea-decomposing organism, the urine undergoes alkaline fermen- tation, and if at the same time there is some hindrance to the outflow of urine, there is great risk of the infection ascending to the kidneys, causing pyelo-nephritis or pyonephrosis, these being the commonest causes of death in cases of chronic septic cystitis. The presence of fever, a tendency to shiver or to actual rigors, should always raise the suspicion that the infection is no longer confined to the bladder. Diagnosis.—It must be borne in mind that the cardinal symptoms of cystitis—pyuria, frequent and painful micturition —may also result from lesions of the kidney, especially tubercu- losis. When the pus is derived from the bladder it appears at the end of micturition, and tends to sink to the bottom of the vessel. When derived from the kidney the urine is more uni-