INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 509 Clinical Features.—The patient complains of a persistent feeling of weight and heat in the bowel, and of pains radiating to the loins and down the legs. A sensation as of a foreign body in the rectum induces a constant desire to empty the bowel, and the attempt is attended with severe tenesmus and bearing down. The motions passed are thin, watery and acrid, and contain much mucus, which may be tinged with blood. The rectal mucous membrane is injected and swollen, and, on digital examination, is found to be hot and tender. The skin around the anus is irritated by the discharge from the bowel, and may become excoriated and painful. There may be increased frequency of micturition from reflex irritation of the bladder. There is more or less constitutional disturbance, according to the extent and severity of the inflammation. The treatment consists in removing the cause of the inflam- mation when this is possible, in confining the patient to bed, and giving a bland fluid diet. Locally injections of ice-cold water, or of water as hot as the patient can bear it, give relief. A few drops of laudanum may be added to the fluid injected, or a morphin suppository may be introduced after the injection. Hot hip baths are also useful. The bowels should be moved regularly by the aid of mild laxatives. Periproctitis, or inflammation of the cellular tissue around the rectum, may be due to the spread of an inflammatory or ulcerative process from the bowel, or it may commence as a cellulitis. It usually ends in suppuration and perirectal abscess. Ulceration.—Non-malignant ulceration of the rectum may be due to a great variety of pathological conditions. It may, for example, follow on one or other of the varieties of proctitis, or it may be due to the downward spread of an infective colitis. In addition to those forms which may be traced to injury of the rectal mucous membrane—for example, by foreign bodies, impacted ftecal masses, or the pressure of the foetal head during parturition—and those associated with the presence of piles, polypus or stricture, it is necessary to refer more particularly to the dysenteric, the tuberculous, and the syphilitic varieties. All forms of ulceration are most common in middle life, and are more frequently met with in females than in males. Dysenteric ulceration often affects the pelvic colon and the rectum simultaneously. The mucous membrane becomes infil- trated here and there with a fibrinous exudation, which raises the epithelium, and causes it to give way, leaving a series of small superficial ulcers. These tend to spread and to run