411 OPERATIONS ON THE INTESTINE. forms a large S or omega-shaped coil which usually lies in the cavity of the pelvis. It may, however, be found in the abdomen proper, and sometimes even on the right side, in the neighbourhood of the caecum, or at a higher level, in the vicinity of the liver. The ileo-caecal valve, although believed to be pervious to gas or fluid introduced into the colon by way of the rectum, is remarkably competent, as is shown by the fact that in cases of stricture of the pielvic colon the entire large intestine may be enormously distended, even to the extent of rupture of the caecum, without the valve giving way. The separate bands of longi- tudinal muscular fibres and the appendices epiploicse constitute a certain means of distinguishing the large from the small intestine. Bacteriology.—Under normal conditions the number of bacteria in the upper portion of the intestine is comparatively small, but beyond the region of the lower ileum the number is greatly increased, and below the ileo-caecal valve organisms are found in great number and variety. In the stomach the growth of bacteria is inhibited by the presence of free hydrochloric acid. In the small intestine, in sprite of the loss of acidity of the bowel contents, the bile and other secretions appear to play an important part in preventing the development of bacteria. This regulation of bacterial growth is liable to be disturbed, especially in diseases which originate primarily in the intestine, and the disturb- ance first shows its effects in the neighbourhood of the ileo-caecal junc- tion, for example, by the occurrence of inflammatory affections, such as appendicitis. The lower ileum is most liable to specific infections, such as those of tuberculosis and typhoid. While in a state of health the wall of the intestine possesses a considerable capacity of resisting the action of organisms ; when damaged, either directly by trauma, or in- directly through interference with its innervation or blood-supply, the organisms are able to invade and pass through the walls, setting up disease of the bowel itself, or of the peritoneum, the cellular tissue or the blood-vessels in relation to it. The methods of examination in surgical affections of the intestines include inspection, palpation, and percussion of the abdomen, and digital examination of the rectum and vagina. Distension of the large bowel with air by means of a ball syringe and a rubber tube introduced into the rectum, or the introduction of fluid by means of a soft tube con- nected with a funnel, may be useful in certain cases both for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Water thus introduced may sometimes pass through the ileo-ceecal valve into the small intestine. The entire large intestine will hold on an average about three quarts of fluid. Operations on the Intestine. Enterotomy consists in making a temporary opening in the bowel for the purpose of removing from the lumen some ob- structing agent, such as a gall-stone, or to evacuate the contents of a distended loop during an operation for obstruction. The opening is made in the long axis of the gut on the side farthest from the mesenteric attachment, and is closed by Lembert or Czerny-Lembert sutures, preferably inserted in such a way that the line of suture is at right angles to the long axis of the