AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 65 injured. When it is compressed by a tumour, for example in the region of the medulla, there is interference with speech and deglutition, the tongue becomes ulcerated, and oedema of the glottis may supervene and prove fatal. (X.) The Pneumogastric or Vagus Nerve is seldom injured within the cranial cavity. In the neck it is liable to be divided or ligatured in the course of operations for the removal of malignant or tuberculous glands, for goitre, or for ligation of the common carotid. Division of the nerve on one side is not as a rule followed by any change in the pulse or respiration. If it is irritated, how- ever, for example by being grasped with artery forceps, there is inhibition of the heart, and if it is accidentally ligatured, there is persistent vomiting. Division of the recurrent laryngeal branch on one side results in paralysis of the corresponding posterior crico-arytenoid muscle —the muscle which opens the glottis. This condition is known as unilateral abductor paralysis, and is accompanied by interference with inspiration and phonation. If both nerves are divided, bilateral abductor paralysis results. The vocal cords flap together, producing a crowing sound on inspiration, and the breathing is greatly embarrassed. Tracheotomy is necessary to prevent asphyxia. The vagus and recurrent laryngeal nerves have been success- fully sutured after having been divided accidentally. (XI.) Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve is seldom damaged within the skull. It supplies the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, but as these muscles usually have an additional nerve supply from the cervical plexus, the spinal accessory may be divided, or a considerable portion of it resected, without any serious dis- ablement resulting. This is seen in cases where the nerve has been divided or resected for the cure of spasmodic torticollis. When the spinal accessory is the only source of supply to these muscles, its division is followed by considerable disablement, which appears to depend chiefly on the paralysis of the trapezius. It is liable to be accidentally divided in excising malignant or tuberculous glands from the neck, and the sterno-mastoid or the trapezius, or both, are thus liable to be paralysed. The head is inclined slightly forward, the shoulder is depressed, the arm hangs heavily by the side and is slightly rotated forward, the scapula is drawn away from the spine and rotated on its hori- zontal axis, and there is slight scoliosis with the concavity towards the affected side. The trapezius is markedly wasted, and is, therefore, less prominent in the neck than normal, and VOL. II—5