THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. (158 inflammation attacks a testis arrested in the inguinal canal, the condition may closely simulate a hernia which has become strangulated. Considerable swelling of the gland, attended with cedema of the overlying skin and great pain, is liable to result from a blow or twist, or from repeated irritation from pressure caused by the contraction of the abdominal muscles. There is evidence for the statement that abnormally placed testes are prone to become the seat of malignant disease in adult life. Treatment.—The treatment depends upon the position of the gland, the length of the cord, whether the condition is unilateral or bilateral, and the presence of complications such as hernia, hydrocele, or inflammation. When the testis is arrested in its progress along the inguinal canal and there is no hernia, anattempt may be made tomanipulate the gland into its proper position in the scrotum by systematic- ally applying gentle pressure and traction so as to lengthen the cord. If this fail, the testis should be transplanted into the scrotum by operation. The inguinal canal should be opened up as in the operation for hernia, the coverings of the cord divided and separated, and the tissues of the cord, save the vas and its artery, divided, so far as they interfere with the placing of the testis in the scrotum. The testis is pulled into the scrotum, and its lower end made to project through a small opening at the lower part, where it is anchored by stitches passed through the remains of the gubernaculum and the edges of the scrotal wound. To maintain steady traction on the cord while the testis is becoming attached in its new position, the ends of the stitches may be passed through the skin of the inner aspect of the thigh, either of the same or of the opposite side. The processus vaginalis is then closed and the canal sutured, as in the radical operation for hernia. A similar operation may be performed for ectopia testis. Such operations should be per- formed before puberty if possible, in order that the testis may have a better chance of attaining complete development. In adults, when the condition is unilateral and is complicated with hernia, it is usually advisable to remove the testis in order that the radical cure of the hernia may be satisfactorily effected. In view of the fact that an abnormally placed testis is usually functionless, and that it is liable to assume malignant char- acters in adult life, it is seldom advisable to return it to the abdomen. Injuries.—In spite of its exposed position, the testis is com- paratively seldom seriously injured, a fact which is explained by its free mobility in the pendulous scrotum. The most common