DISEASES OF THE SCALP. 5 line of the zygoma. Suppuration under the pericranium tends to be limited by the inter-sutural attachments of the membrane. Necrosis of the outer table, or even of the whole thickness of the skull, may follow, although it is by no means uncommon for large denuded areas of bone to retain their vitality. The onset of sepsis in these wounds is indicated by throbbing pain and heat in the wound, a feeling of chilliness or the occurrence of a rigor, and tension of the stitches from cedematous swelling of the surrounding tissues. The treatment is carried out on the principles guiding the treatment of suppuration elsewhere. The risks of intra-cranial complications demand that the measures taken shall be prompt and thorough. Erysflelas of the scalp may originate even in wounds so trivial as to be almost invisible, or from suppurative processes in the region of the frontal sinuses or nasal fossse. On the head erysipelas tends to be limited by the attachments of deep fasciae, and seldom spreads to the neck or cheeks. Cerebral complications in the form of noisy delirium or coma are common, and symptoms of meningitis may supervene. Cellulitis from mixed infection is a common sequel of erysipelas of the scalp, and adds materially to the gravity of the condition. The original wound may heal in spite of the erysipelas, but it often breaks down later. When cellulitis develops, free and numerous incisions are urgently called for. Diseases of the Scalp. The surgical diseases of the scalp may be conveniently ’ studied in two groups—those which are inflammatory in nature, and tumours and other swellings of a non-inflammatory kind. Inflammatory Conditions.—Suppuration following upon injuries has already been discussed. It is not uncommon, how- ever, for localised abscesses to occur in the scalp in the absence of any discoverable injury. Such collections, as a rule, form in the cellular tissue in delicate children, and are not infrequently associated with chronic eczema, impetigo, or pediculi. These abscesses are slow in their development, are comparatively pain- less, and are only covered by a thin bluish pellicle of skin. It is not improbable that they result from a mixed infection by pyogenic and tuberculous organisms. As a rule they heal quickly after incision and drainage, but sometimes tedious superficial ulcers result. Localised abscesses may also form in connection with one or other of the diseases which affect the cranial bones.