428 THE INTESTINES. Once the invagination has commenced, it increases at the expense of the receiving tube, the apex of the intussusception remaining the same, and folding more and more of the sheath over it as it passes down. This variety often attains very considerable dimen- sions, and the apex of the intussusception may traverse the whole length of the colon and actually protrude at the anus. The ileo-colic form, in which the lower end of the ileum is prolapsed through the ileo-caecal valve, is much less common, and it differs from the other forms in that the increase results from the intrusion into the colon of more and more ileum. The colic form chiefly affects the descending or sigmoid colon and is usually very limited. The enteric form is confined to the lesser bowel; it is of little clinical importance as it chiefly occurs during the “ death agony.” In the process of invagination the bowel is accompanied by its mesentery, which is compressed and closely packed between the entering and returning tubes, and as the intussusception increases, the mesentery exerts considerable traction on it, with the result that the tumour formed by the intussusception becomes curved, the concavity of the curve being towards the mesenteric attachment. At the same time the tumour is drawn towards the vertebral column. The compression of the vessels of the mesentery, and especially of its veins, results in venous engorge- ment and swelling of the invaginated bowel which gradually passes into a condition of strangulation. The engorgement commences first, and is most marked at the apex and in the middle tube. The engorgement is attended with haemorrhage into the coats of the bowel and from the exposed mucous surfaces; blood thus escapes into the bowel below, and is commonly passed by the rectum, mixed with mucus. The actual obstruction is due to the manner in which the lumen is filled up by the reduplicated and swollen tubes of bowel. After a variable period the intussusception becomes irreducible. This may be due to the swelling of the invaginated portion, the apex especially being often swollen into a large knob; or to the formation of adhesions fixing together the opposed serous surfaces of the inner and middle tubes, this also being most commonly observed towards the apex. Thus it may happen that, with the exception of the last few inches the whole intussusception can be readily reduced. In severe and advanced cases the interference with the nutrition of the bowel is followed by bacterial invasion of its coats, and this may, as in strangulated hernia, result in peritonitis or in gangrene, or in a combination of these con-