HYPOSPADIAS. G27 depressed as soon as the resistance of the triangular ligament is encountered. False passages usually perforate the floor of the urethra at this point. The posterior or deep urethra comprises the membranous and prostatic portions. The membranous urethra lies about one inch below the lower border of the symphysis between the two layers of the triangular liga- ment ; it is about half an inch long, and is surrounded by the compressor urethrae—the “shut-off” muscle of American authors—which, when spasmodically contracted, may firmly grasp an instrument in the urethra. An instrument in the membranous urethra is easily felt by the rectum immediately anterior to the prostate. The prostatic urethra —an inch and a quarter in length—is very elastic, and is capable, of considerable distension, even to the extent of admitting the finger ; in the erect posture its direction is practically vertical, with a slight curve concave towards the pubes. The urethra is lubricated by the secretion of the glands of the prostate and seminal vesicles which open into the prostatic urethra, of Cowper’s glands which lie between the two layers of the triangular ligament and open into the floor of the bulbous portion, and of numerous minute mucous glands opening into the spongy urethra. All of these glands are more active during sexual excitement, and their secretion constitutes a considerable proportion of the seminal fluid. The examination of a patient suffering from any affection of the urethra includes an inquiry into the history, with special reference to the frequency of micturition, the presence or absence of pain, the size and force of the stream, the characters of the urine, and the discharge of pus or blood from the meatus. When the discharge is scanty it may be demonstrated by compressing the urethra from behind forwards. The spongy urethra is accessible to palpation through the skin, and the membranous urethra by the rectum. The lining membrane may Le inspected by the urethroscope or endoscope, which consists of a metal tube through which a beam of light is projected in line with the eye of the observer. Congenital Malformations.—These include occlusions of the urethra, hypospadias, epispadias, and abnormal communications between the urethra and the rectum. Occlusion of the urethra is usually due to a valvular fold or diaphragm which partly or completely closes the passage. The diaphragm may be at the external meatus, just behind the glans or in front of the prostate. It may be associated with escape of the urine from the bladder by some abnormal channel, such, for example, as a patent urachus. Occlusion of the meatus is usually recognised shortly after birth, and is remedied by incising the diaphragm with a fine knife and maintaining the patency of the canal by the passage of bougies. Occlusion posterior to the glans is treated by external urethrotomy. Hypospadias.—The floor of the urethra may be deficient to a greater or less degree as a result of defective fusion of the