ACUTE (EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. presence of false membrane, which materially assists in the diagnosis. In addition to the general symptoms there may be lmskiness of the voice and a croupy cough. Gradual increase of dyspnoea and cyanosis indicates the spread of the false mem- brane. Laryngoscopic examination may reveal the presence of ] latches of membrane, and so corroborate the diagnosis. It must not be forgotten that a membranous exudation may be produced by other organisms than the Klebs-Loffler bacillus, to wit, the streptococcus and the bacillus coli. Treatment.—Diphtheria antitoxin should be administered in all cases, as there is no doubt that a lower rate of mortality has prevailed since the introduction of the serum treatment. The use of medicated steam and spraying the throat with peroxide of hydrogen may also be employed. Careful watch must be kept lest the necessity for intubation or tracheotomy arise in the event of respiration becoming seriously interfered with. Acute (Edema of the Larynx.—(Edema of the larynx may be inflammatory or non-inflammatory in origin. The former is the more common, and it may arise in connection with previously existing disease of the larynx, such as tubercle or syphilis, or it may be secondary to acute septic conditions at the base of the tongue, or in the fauces or pharynx ; more rarely it results from inflammation in the cellular tissue or glands of the neck. The non-inflammatory form may be a local dropsy in renal or cardiac disease, may be induced by pressure upon the large cervical veins, and in some cases it appears to follow the administration of potassium iodide in the treatment of laryngeal affections. The oedema consists of a fluid exudation into the loose sub- mucous areolar tissue, and may be of a simple serous character or may become sero-purulent. The situations mainly involved are the glosso-epiglottic fossae between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds, and the false cords. If the inflammatory process commence in front of the epiglottis, this structure becomes swollen and rigid, and often livid in colour—points which are readily discerned on examination with the mirror, or even without its aid in some cases. The patient complains of great pain on swallowing, and has the sensation of a foreign body in the throat. Should the inflammation spread thence to the ary-epiglottic folds, or, on the other hand, starting primarily in the larynx, give rise to oedema of these structures, dyspnoea becomes a prominent and grave symptom. The patient may become rapidly cyanosed, the inspirations assume a noisy, stridulous character, and great distress and imminent suffoca- tion supervene. If laryngoscopic examination is possible, the