THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 480 of an abscess may be attended with the appearance of a swelling which comes to the surface above or below the stomach, or the pus may burrow into either loin, forming a perirenal abscess, or pass upwards under the diaphragm and form a subphrenic abscess, or it may follow the psoas muscle into the iliac region. Sometimes the abscess bursts into the stomach or bowel, or into the peritoneal cavity. Death is the usual termination in cases left to nature, but recovery may take place after a tedious and prolonged illness. Treatment.—In acute cases little can be done to arrest the progress of the disease. Stimulants and nourishment are given by the rectum, and morphin may be required to relieve the pain. Distension of the bowels is to be relieved by calomel followed by salol and bismuth. If a tender and painful swelling is recognised in the situation of the pancreas, operative interference is indicated. A median incision above the umbilicus will enable the operator to palpate the pancreas and locate any collection of pus. The pus is evacuated either through the abdominal wound, or through a posterior incision in the right or left costo-vertebral angle. If a definite abscess form and approach the surface either in front or in the loin, it should be incised and drained. Chronic Pancreatitis.—This is commoner than either of the preceding forms of inflammation of the pancreas. It usually results from the extension of inflammation associated with the presence of stones in the common bile-duct or in the pancreatic duct, or, apart from lithiasis, from chronic catarrh in the duo- denum. The inflammation involves chiefly the head of the pancreas, which becomes enlarged and indurated, and may come to press injuriously on the common duct or on the duodenum. The clinical features may be complicated by those of co- existing affections of the neighbouring structures. The patient loses flesh and strength, and complains of pain in the epigastrium and passing back between the shoulders. The pain may recur in the form of seizures resembling biliary colic, sometimes attended with shivering. If there is tenderness, it is located in the middle line above the umbilicus. The stools are offensive, bulky, soft greasy and pale, and may contain unaltered fat and muscle fibre. If the head of the pancreas is much enlarged it may be felt as a tumour, especially under anaesthesia. It may press unduly on the bile-duct and cause jaundice, at first slight, but later becoming more pronounced and persistent. The gall- bladder commonly becomes distended, and may be felt projecting below the costal margin, and the liver may become enlarged as in other forms of obstructive jaundice. Vomiting and other