THE (ESOPHAGUS. 246 excessively small—the introduction of a short Symond’s tube may give .great relief for a time, by enabling the patient to swallow food and saliva. The tube is made of gum elastic and measures about six inches in length, the calibre varying with the size of the stricture. The upper end is funnel-shaped, while the lower end has a terminal aperture. The tube is passed beyond the stricture by means of a special whalebone guide, the expanded upper end resting on the face of the stricture and preventing it passing right through. For further security against it being swallowed, and to facilitate its withdrawal, silk threads are attached to the upper end of the tube, brought out through the mouth, and attached to the cheek or ear. To pre- vent the thread being bitten through it should be passed between two sound teeth. The tube should be removed and cleaned once in two or three weeks. In a large proportion of cases it becomes necessary to perform gastrostomy, and this should be done as soon as the patient has difficulty in swallowing fluids and begins to suffer in his general health from want of food. The operation is a simple one, and may be performed under local anaesthesia. It usually prolongs life for about three months, although we have known cases in which the patients lived for over two years. Other tumours of the oesophagus — myomata, fibromata, adenomata, cysts, and sarcomata—are so rare as not to call for further mention. Spasm of the oesophagus, oesophagisinus or spasmodic stricture, is a condition in which the lumen of the tube is temporarily narrowed by spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat without any discoverable organic lesion. It most fre- quently occurs in neurotic females, and is probably in many cases of the nature of a reflex contraction set up by irritation of some branch of the vagus. In a considerable number of cases it has been associated with cancer of the liver. It is occasionally met with in habitual drunkards, and may give rise to symptoms which closely simulate those of an impacted foreign body. Paget has described under the name of “ stammering with the oesophagus ” an allied condition in which the patient occasionally has great difficulty in swallowing, especially when excited and in company. The dysphagia associated with oesophagismus is intermittent, the attacks coming on suddenly, often in the middle of a meal, particularly when the patient is excited. Other signs of hysteria or neurosis are present, and it is usually found that a full-sized bougie can be passed, at least under chloroform. The treatment