468 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. stones, but also to the inflammatory condition of the gall-bladder which is associated with their presence. In recurrent biliary colic internal treatment may relieve the symptoms, but is rarely curative. The only certain means of getting rid of the offending gall-stones is to remove them by operation, and the advisability of having recourse to this measure must be considered in relation to each individual case. The operation consists in opening and emptying the gall- bladder, and is known as cholecystotomy. In operations on cases of recurrent biliary colic evidence of chronic cholecystitis is nearly always found, and in cases of long standing the walls of the gall-bladder are usually thickened, the viscus itself is often contracted and hidden beneath the liver, and from extension of inflammation to the peritoneal coat omental and other adhesions are commonly present. The abdomen is opened by an incision parallel to the right costal margin, or by a vertical incision through the substance of the right rectus, The region of the gall-bladder is explored with the fingers. The gall-bladder, having been identified, is pulled forwards by means of two pairs of forceps, or a couple of stout sutures passed through its walls. The fundus is incised, any fluid which escapes is mopped up, and the stones are removed by means of a bent scoop, assisted by two fingers in the peritoneal cavity. It is essential that all the stones be removed, special attention being paid to the cystic duct, which may even require to be incised if a stone is very firmly impacted in it. If it is feasible, the edges of the wound in the bladder are stitched to the parietal peritoneum, and drainage provided for by means of a tube. Where this is impossible, a rubber tube is secured in the bladder by a purse-string suture around the opening in the viscus, and is brought out at the abdominal wound together with one or more strands of gauze. If the cystic duct is patent, the dressings in the course of a day or two become saturated with bile, and bile continues to dis- charge until, at the end of from three to five weeks, the wound closes. In the operation known as ideal cholecystotomy the bladder is stitched up and returned within the belly. It is rarely indicated, because it does not allow of that drainage of the bladder which is so beneficial in the cholecystitis which accom- panies gall-stones. Excision of the gall-bladder—cholecystectomy—should be had recourse to when chronic cholecystitis is believed to be the cause of the patient’s sufferings. Inflammatory Affections.—While these affections are occa-