PYOGENIC DISEASES. 45 A sub-dural abscess is usually an extension of an extra-dural abscess, and the limitation of the suppuration is due to the adhesions which have resulted from a localised lepto-meningitis. The suppurative process often spreads and implicates the super- ficial layers of the overlying brain tissue. Cerebral and Cerebellar A bscess.—The most common cause of abscess in the brain is chronic middle ear disease, and the majority of cerebral abscesses are therefore situated in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. Some are due to the direct spread inwards of a sub-dural abscess formed in relation to an erosion of the tegmen tympani. In other cases the infection is carried by the blood- vessels, and in this way the infective material reaches the white matter. Less frequently infection from the middle ear takes place along the perivascular lymph spaces or by the lymphatics. Cerebral abscess is much more frequently met with in the white matter than in the cortex. Cerebellar abscess is usually due to spread of infection from a septic thrombosis of the sigmoid sinus, either directly from a sub-dural abscess formed in relation to the walls of the sinus, or by extension of the thrombotic process along the cerebellar veins. Perforating wounds and compound fractures of the skull may be followed by cerebral or cerebellar abscess. The abscess usually forms at the seat of the brain injury, but in some cases it is found at a considerable distance from it. In the majority of cases the abscess is single. Pytemic abscesses, however, are often multiple, and may occur both in the cerebrum and cerebellum. The pus from a cerebral abscess is often of a greenish-yellow colour, or it may be dark brown from admixture with broken- down blood-clot. In some cases it is thin and serous and contains sloughs of brain matter. It has frequently an exceedingly foetid odour. In quantity it varies from a few drops to several ounces. The arachno-pia over an abscess usually has a turbid and milky appearance. The brain tissue surrounding an acute abscess shows the appearances of acute purulent encephalitis. In a chronic abscess, on the other hand, it may become condensed, and by the growth and organisation of granulation tissue the pus may be encapsu- lated. In this condition the abscess may remain “ latent ” for many weeks or even months. At any time, however, it may again become active, or a fresh abscess may develop in the sur- rounding tissue. After the evacuation of the abscess the resilient brain tissue at once fills up the gap, so that it is often difficult to retain or