THE BREAST. 294 breasts either simultaneously or one after the other. There may be a history of dysmenorrhoea, or of some ovarian or uterine disturbance, but there is seldom any definite local cause discoverable. At first the patient merely experiences a sensation of fulness and uneasiness in the breast, later there are stinging pains which shoot through towards the shoulder or down the arm, and the breast becomes tender to the touch. These symptoms are worst during menstruation. On palpation the breast tissue is felt to be firmer than normal, and to have a characteristically coarse or “ knotty ” feeling, which is best recognised by grasp- ing the swelling between the fingers and thumb. If the breast be pressed against the chest wall the swelling becomes less evident. One or more of the small cysts may enlarge sufficiently to form a definite tumour or lump. The breast is freely movable on the pectoral fascia and the skin is not implicated. The axillary glands may be enlarged and tender. The induration may disappear when the parenchyma atrophies at the menopause, but usually the enlargement of one or more cysts necessitates operative interference. In exceptional cases adeno-carcinoma supervenes. Treatment.—As the patient is usually rendered anxious by the fear that the disease is cancerous, the first step in treatment is to reassure her as to its innocent character. The general health should be improved and any pelvic trouble attended to. In the early stages the application of a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage is useful in soothing the part and in preventing the patient handling it. When a cyst enlarges sufficiently to form a palpable tumour, it should be removed by excising a wedge of the mammary tissue through an incision which radiates from the nipple. When several cysts are present, and particularly if on opening these they are found to contain intra-cystic growths, the whole breast should be excised, but it is not necessary to clear out the axillary lymphatics. Tuberculosis of the Breast. — Tuberculous disease of the breast is rare. It is occasionally met with in the form of numerous caseating nodules scattered throughout the gland— the disseminated form—but more frequently as a single irregular abscess cavity, resulting from the coalescence of several of these caseating nodules—the confluent form. The bacilli may reach the breast in the blood-stream by metastasis from some tuber- culous lesion elsewhere, for example, in the lungs or pleura; or the infection may take place by way of the milk ducts or lymphatics passing from the region of the nipple. In other