463 ANATOMY OF THE GALL-BLADDER. The operation consists in opening the abdomen above the umbilicus, evacuating the fluid, and stitching the great omentum to the peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall. A drainage- tube is passed into the pouch of Douglas through an opening above the pubes, in order to draw off the fluid and keep the peritoneal cavity dry, and so allow of close vascular adhesions forming between the omentum and the parietes. The omentum may be pushed between the peritoneum and the abdominal muscles to attain the same object. Those who suffer from hepatic cirrhosis are necessarily bad subjects for operation, and the mortality of the above procedure is relatively high. The Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Surgical Anatomy.—The gall-bladder lies against the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. The fundus normally projects slightly beyond the free margin of the liver opposite the ninth or tenth costal cartilage, but varies considerably under pathological conditions. It may be displaced farther to the right, or it may be found high up beneath the liver and completely covered by it. From the fundus, the bladder gradually narrows until its neck ends in a sigmoid curve, the terminal portion of which turns downwards to join the cystic duct near the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. The fundus and lower part of the bladder are invested by peritoneum, while above, it is connected to the under surface of the liver by connective tissue. Under normal conditions it is easily separated from the liver. The cystic duct passes backwards, downwards, and to the left for a distance of an inch and a half, and joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle to form the common bile-duct (Fig. 106). The hepatic duct is formed by the junction of a branch from each lobe of the liver, issuing at the transverse fissure, and it descends within the gastro-hepatic omentum to join the cystic duct as already described. The common bile-duct, about three inches in length, passes downwards and backwards in the gastro-hepatic omentum, lying in front of the portal vein, and having the hepatic artery on its left side. Along its course are several lymphatic glands which may become enlarged and indurated in inflammatory affections of the biliary passages, and may be mistaken for gall-stones when felt with the finger. If the finger be passed into the foramen of Winslow, the common duct may be felt in the gastro-hepatic omentum, where it forms the anterior ■ boundary of this foramen. The duct then passes behind the first part of the duodenum, and is continued downwards on the inner and posterior wall of the second part in close relation to the head of the pancreas, and for a short distance in contact with the pancreatic duct. Along with this duct it perforates the muscular coat of the duodenum, and runs obliquely for three-quarters of an inch in the submucosa, and they open into the bowel by a common orifice—three inches beyond the pylorus. Just behind the orifice the duct is dilated to form the ampulla of Vater, in which a gall-stone may lodge. Although the cystic duct normally admits a No. 5 catheter, on account of the way in which its mucous membrane is thrown into folds the passage of a probe along the duct is