HERNIA. 374 In males the development of the interstitial sac probably depends upon imperfect descent of the testis, which bars the way to the extension of the hernia downwards towards the scrotum, and causes the sac to spread in the direction of least resistance. In both sexes it is more common on the right side. As these hernise cannot be controlled by a truss, they are best treated by operation. Inguinal Hernia in Children. — Inguinal hernia is very common in children of both sexes. The commonest form is that in which the funicular process, although shut off from the tunica vaginalis, remains patent, closely resembling an acquired sac. In male children it is more frequently met with on the right side, because of the later closure of the funicular process on that side. While the predisposing cause is the incom- plete closure of the processus vaginalis, various exciting causes may be present, such as diarrhoea and gaseous distension of the bowels, excessive crying or vomit- ing, whooping-cough, straining on micturition as a result of phimosis, and rectal irritation by worms. Hence the importance of the medical treatment in cases of hernia in children, and especially in infants. If these exciting factors are got rid of, there is a strong tendency for the slighter forms of hernia to be recovered from. Irreducibility and strangu- lation are unusual. Hernia of the caecum is comparatively common in right scrotal hernia, and is characterised by its large size, the width of the neck, and the difficulty of retaining it with a truss. In some cases the vermiform appendix may be palpated through the tissues of the scrotum. In examining children for hernia it is important to make out whether or not the testes have descended into the scrotum, and to avoid mistaking the various forms of congenital hydrocele for hernia. Fig. 72—Double Congenital In- guinal Hernia in boy, aet. 1 year. (First noticed on right side when two weeks old. Left hernia noticed four weeks later. Could not be controlled by truss. Treated by radical operation.)