524 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. and there is frequently also some prolapse of the mucous membrane. In addition to the protrusion of the pile mass from the anus the most important symptoms are haemorrhage, pain, and dis- charge of mucus. In piles of the first degree the bleeding is usually slight, in some cases amounting only to a streaking of the motion, or to the loss of a few drops of blood at each act of defecation. It only occurs while the bowels are moving, and is most marked when the motions are hard and the bowels constipated. If the bowels are kept regular and the motions soft, there may be no bleeding. It is in piles of the second degree that bleeding becomes a prominent and serious symptom. As a rule the blood escapes from the piles after they have been protruded, and continues to flow as long as they remain down, the bleeding being due to interference with the venous return caused by constriction of the neck of the piles by the spasmodically contracted external sphincter. In such cases the blood is venous in character, and escapes from the surface of the pile mass in a steady ooze, and the bleeding stops whenever the piles are returned within the bowel. In other cases bright arterial blood comes in jets from a single ulcer on a protruded pile, and the bleeding may continue after the jtiles have been returned, with the result that a considerable quantity of blood collects in the rectum, and is passed, either in a fluid or coagulated state, some time after defecation. From piles of the second degree the patient may lose from several drams to several ounces of blood each time the bowels move, and as a consequence he becomes weak and anaemic, and exhibits a characteristic clay-like pallor. Such patients also tend to become unduly irritable, anxious, or mentally depressed. In piles of the third degree there is seldom much bleeding, as the mucous membrane becomes thickened, and the normal columnar epithelium covering it is replaced by stratified squamous epithelium. Pain localised to the lower part of the bowel is seldom severe in uncomplicated cases of piles, except while they are actually protruded and constricted by the sphincter, and it ceases soon after the piles are returned. If pain persists for any length of time after reduction, the presence of a fissure should be suspected. On the other hand pains referred to the sacral and lumbar regions are common to all forms and degrees of piles. It is only in piles of the third degree that a profuse discharge