614 CHAPTER XXXIV. THE PROSTATE. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Injuries—Pyogenic affec- tions: Acute prostatitis; Abscess; Chronic prostatitis; Prostatorrhoea —Enlargement of the prostate—Calculi in the prostate and prostatic urethra—Malignant disease—Tuberculosis. Surgical Anatomy.—The prostate gland surrounds the first part of the male urethra, and is itself enclosed in a strong capsule or sheath derived from the pelvic fascia. It is traversed from behind forwards by the ejaculatory ducts which open on the floor of the prostatic urethra. The superior surface is related to that part of the floor of the bladder which surrounds the opening of the urethra, and each lateral surface rests against the fascia covering the levator ani muscle. The posterior surface is in contact with the anterior wall of the rectum, while the anterior surface faces the symphysis pubis. The apex points downwards and is in relation to the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. The urethra traverses the gland nearer its posterior than its anterior surface, and describes a curve with the concavity forwards. The prostate is surrounded on the front and sides by a plexus of large veins which intervene between the cortex of the gland and the fibrous capsule. The lymphatics arise in its substance and form around the organ a network which communicates with the lymphatics of the bladder, urethra, and seminal vesicles. The prostate is composed of tubular glands lined with columnar epithelium and embedded in a connective tissue stroma abundantly provided with non-striped muscle. The glands discharge their contents by a number of minute ducts which open into the floor of the urethra. The secretion, which serves to lubricate the urethra and to dilute the semen, is normally added to the urine, but when the prostate is compressed by the levator ani, as in straining during defecation, it may be forced along the urethra and appear at the meatus as a clear viscid fluid. The evolution of the prostate is closely related to the development of the sexual functions, and begins at puberty at the same time as that of the testes. When the sexual functions are on the wane, the gland is liable to undergo an enlargement, which constitutes the most important lesion to which it is liable. In addition to its secretory functions, the muscular fibres assist in the ejection of the semen, and by encircling the neck of the bladder and commencement of the urethra they play a part in retaining the urine.