494 PELVIC SWELLINGS IN THE FEMALE. tender to the touch, can be palpated. Even when the abscess is of considerable size fluctuation cannot always be detected through the vagina, indeed “a stony hardness of the vaginal vault is one of the most characteristic signs of the presence of pus ” (Kelly). In some cases the swelling is best felt by the rectum. In course of time the swelling may become palpable in the abdomen or in the flank, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, a tumour, or the matting of parts around a diseased vermiform appendix. If left to nature the abscess may burst into the vagina or rectum, and if the opening is large and the drainage free, a speedy cure may thus take place. If, however, the opening is small the symptoms are only temporarily relieved, as all the pus does not escape, and the cavity soon fills again. In other cases the abscess bursts into the bladder, or on to the surface through the abdominal wall, leaving sinuses which show no tendency to heal, and from which pus continues to escape. If the pus bursts into the peritoneal cavity, the symptoms are not unlike those which follow the rupture of an appendicular abscess into the peritoneum. Occasionally the pus becomes encysted and may eventually disappear. The diagnosis is seldom difficult if a clear history of gonor- rhoea or of septic endometritis is forthcoming. The conditions from which pyosalpinx is to be differentiated are pelvic cellulitis, appendicular abscess burrowing into the broad ligament, tumours and cysts of the broad ligament, ovarian cysts and uterine fibroids. Retroflexion of the uterus, a kidney displaced into the pelvis, a tumour of the sacrum or innominate bone, cancer of the csecum, and fecal accumulation in the rectum, have all been mistaken for pyosalpinx. Treatment.—In the vast majority of cases operative interfer- ence is indicated, but this should not be undertaken during the acute stage or during an exacerbation. To relieve the patient’s suffering, rest in bed, purgation, the application of ice-bags over the abdomen, and, if necessary, the administration of opium, are called for. Vaginal incision and drainage is recommended by Kelly for selected cases in which there is a single, well-defined abscess, and in which fluctuation can be detected through the vault of the vagina. The abscess is evacuated, the cavity irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze. This operation has the advantage of conserving the ovaries and tubes, but is attended with the risk of injuring the rectum, the ureter, or the uterine artery, and of opening into the general peritoneal cavity.