THE NECK. 218 Injuries of the Neck. Contusion of the neck may result from a blow or crush, as, for example, the passage of a wheel over the neck, or from throttling, strangling or hanging. There is always more or less swelling and discoloration, the degree varying with the extent and nature of the injury. In medico-legal cases the distribution of the discoloration should always be carefully noted. When due to throttling, the marks of the individual fingers may be distinctly recognisable, and nail prints may be present. In cases of strangling, the mark of the cord passes straight round the neck, while in suicidal hanging it is more or less oblique and is higher behind than in front. When due to a direct blow, for example by a fist, the discoloration is limited, whereas it is usually diffused all over the neck when due to the passage of a wheel over the part. From the surgical point of view the clinical importance of these injuries depends on the complications which may be present. When extensive extravasation takes place under the cervical fascia, the effused blood may press upon the air-passages and oesophagus to such an extent as to cause interference with breathing and swallowing. The larynx or the trachea may be so grossly damaged that death results immediately from suffoca- tion, or later from gradually increasing swelling causing obstruc- tion of the glottis. If the mucous membrane of the air-passage is torn, subcutaneous emphysema may develop and spread widely over the body. Sometimes the pharynx or the oesophagus is lacerated, and particles of food escape into the cellular tissue, leading to septic infection in the deeper planes of the neck. In contusions of the lower part of the neck the cords of the brachial plexus may be injured. Fractures of the Hyoid, Larynx and Trachea.—The hyoid bone, on account of its mobility and the protection it receives from the body of the lower jaw, is seldom fractured. The injury is occasionally met with, however, in old people in whom the great cornu has become ossified to the body of the bone. It is .usually produced either by a direct blow, or by transverse pressure as in throttling. The fracture is almost always at the junction of the great cornu with the body, and there is marked displacement of the fragments. The patient usually feels the bone crack, and experiences a sensation as if something hard had stuck in his throat. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are also liable to be fractured, particularly in old people after calcification or