446 THE INTESTINES. and then the lower coils of the ileum. Enlargement of Peyer’s patches is easily recognised on inspection and manipula- tion. The perforation is often obscured by purulent lymph and adhesions. When the opening is found, it is closed by a series of sutures. If there are areas in the adjacent bowel which appear likely to perforate, these should be invaginated by Lembert sutures, or covered over with an omental graft. Sometimes the bowel is so extensively damaged as to call for resection, but the patient’s general state will seldom permit of this being carried out. The infected area of the peritoneum is cleansed by means of gauze wrung out of hot saline solution or by irrigation, and is drained by strands of worsted brought out at the wound. The feeble reparative power of the patient is often shown by the parietal wound failing to unite. Cases are recorded of a second perforation, when convalescence from the first is well established, calling for a second laparotomy. It is quite the exception to find a circumscribed abscess around a perforated ulcer. Dysentery.—In acute dysentery the chief symptom is frequent passage of slimy or bloody stools, attended with colicky pains and tenesmus. The colon, either throughout or in parts, is in a condition of acute inflammation, frequently associated with ulceration and sometimes with gangrene. In cases which resist medical treatment the question of performing colotomy may be considered, in order to give rest to the bowel, and to allow of irrigation of the colon and the direct application of remedial agents to the inflamed mucous membrane. In chronic dysentery similar features persist or recur from time to time, and there may also be symptoms of narrowing of the colon from cicatricial changes in the wall of the bowel, or from adhesions interfering with its peristalsis. Surgical interfer- ence is more often called for than in the acute disease, and usually takes the form of colotomy. If the chief object of the operation is to admit of the colon being irrigated, this is most easily carried out by inserting and fixing a rubber tube in the caecum in the same way as the tube is fixed in the stomach in a Witzel’s gastrostomy. Normal saline solution and dilute solution of nitrate of silver (l-2000) are generally used, one after the other. When the fistulous opening is no longer required, it soon closes on withdrawal of the tube. If the chief object is to rest the bowel, an artificial anus is made in the ascending colon. Irrigation may also be carried out through this opening. A plastic operation is usually required to close the artificial anus when it is no longer wanted.