PARAPHIMOSIS. GST by fine catgut ligatures, special attention being paid to the vessels in the vicinity of the frenum. The cut edges of the outer and inner layers of the prepuce are then stitched together by a series of interrupted catgut stitches. In adults, full doses of bromides should be given to prevent erections which, besides causing pain, are liable to tear the stitches and so interfere with primary union. Paraphimosis.—This term is applied to the condition which results when the glans penis is strangulated by a tight prepuce which has been drawn back and cannot be pulled forward again. The constriction of the glans is sufficient to prevent the venous return without arresting the arterial supply. The result is that the part becomes intensely congested and cedematous. The constricting band is formed by the margin of the orifice of the prepuce, and the chief swelling is formed by its inner layer, which is in a marked state of oedema (Fig. 155). The condition is attended with severe pain which is often aggravated by repeated or per- sistent erection of the penis. The point of the penis is greatly altered in shape by the oedema, and the whole organ may become tortuous. The flow of urine is sometimes interfered with. Ulceration eventually occurs at the upper part of the ring on the dorsal aspect of the penis, and to some extent relieves the strangulation. In some cases, however, gangrene of the prepuce and glans has occurred. Treatment. — In most cases the glans can be reduced by applying steady and firm pressure to the parts. A piece of lint soaked in a 5 per cent, solution of cocain is laid over the end of the penis and covered with a thick pad of cotton-wool. A narrow elastic bandage is then evenly and firmly applied, and the penis supported in a vertical position. In the course of ten or fifteen minutes the glans is thoroughly lubricated with vaseline and the penis grasped between the index and middle fingers of both hands, while steady pressure is made on the glans with both thumbs. With a little manipulation Fig. 155.—Paraphimosis in a boy, set. 6. (From a photograph lent by Mr. Stiles.)