422 THE INTESTINES. relation to a femoral hernia, and its parietal attachment is usually in the vicinity of the femoral opening. A persistent Mechel’s diverticulum, attached at one extremity to the lower ileum and at the other to the anterior abdominal wall in the region of the umbilicus, may con- stitute a band (Fig. 92). Its distal end may become separated from its attachment at the umbilicus, and become attached to the mesentery or to one of the viscera. Other structures may constitute bands—for example, a vermi- form appendix which has be- come adherent by its tip to the mesentery of the ileum, an adherent Fallopian tube, an elongated epiploic appendage, or the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. Fig. 92.—Meckel’s Diverticulum, form- A band may bring about ing a “band” which caused obstruc- strangulation either by one or tion and was itself gangrenous. ° J more coils of intestine passing underneath it—-as beneath a shallow and narrow arch (Fig. 93); or by the bowel being snared and constricted by a noose formed by the band itself. The first is the more common mode, and is associated with a short band ; the latter is rare, and requires a long and loose band. In either case the loop of bowel engaged is apt to undergo rotation, and this may be the chief factor in the actual obstruction of the gut. Probably there are other factors concerned, such as exaggerated peristalsis, venous congestion and swelling of the intestine, and the development of gas in the strangulated loop of bowel. Obstruction may be immediate and complete almost as soon as the bowel is engaged, or may not assume serious proportions until the secondary factors have come into play. This form of obstruction affects almost exclusively the small intestine, because of its free mobility and its capacity of forming a knuckle or loop. The lower portion of the ileum is the segment most often in- Fig. 93.— Strangulation of Small Intestine by di- verticulum of Small In- testine. (Anatomical Museum, Uni- versity of Edinburgh.)