527 EXTERNAL PILES. and, after cutting off the redundant portion of the pile, intro- ducing a continuous catgut suture which includes the clamp and the tissues around the base of the pile. Just before tightening up the suture the clamp is removed. The suture not only arrests all bleeding, but also closes the wound, so that- healing takes place more rapidly, and no raw surface being left, the bowels may be encouraged to move from the third day. Whitehead’s method, which consists in excising the whole of the pile-bearing area of mucous membrane, has been almost entirely abandoned, as being needlessly severe for the majority of cases and on account of the bleeding which accompanies it. Clamp and Cautery.—In this method the base of each pile is seized with a specially constructed clamp, applied in a direction radiating from the anus, and after the projecting portion has been cut off with scissors, the stump is seared with an actual or a thermo-cautery. It is of special service in friable or ulcerated piles. After-treatment.—A morphin suppository (j to I a grain) is introduced into the rectum, and a dressing applied and retained in position by a T-shaped bandage The dressing should be changed daily. Many patients have difficulty in passing water after the operation. The catheter, however, should not be used unless absolutely necessary, as, if once used, it may not be dispensed with for some days, and there is a risk of setting up cystitis. The patient is kept on a fluid diet until the bowels are moved on the third or fourth day ; a dose of castor oil at night, followed by the injection of about half a pint of warm olive oil in the morning, ensures a soft and easy evacuation. The patient should be confined to bed for about a week or ten days. External Piles. — These may occur either alone or in association with internal piles. Several different conditions are included under the term “ external piles.” The variety which most. frequently coexists with internal piles consists in a dilatation and slight varicosity of the subcutaneous veins around the anal orifice. The turgescence of the vessels is only evident when the patient strains, and then the perianal skin, which is usually loose and redundant, is raised as a bluish cushion-like ring, which completely surrounds the orifice. When the patient ceases to strain the swelling disappears. This condition is common in patients who are habitually constipated, or who follow a sedentary occupation. It gives rise to no trouble beyond a slight feeling of fulness at the anus during and immediately after defecation, and a sensation as if the bowel