577 PERINEPHRIC ABSCESS. forms between the parietes and the kidney, displacing this organ forwards and upwards. The abscess may spread upwards into the subphrenic space or downwards into the iliac fossa, and may rupture externally in the loin, in the buttock, or in the thigh. Rupture has occurred into the colon and into the bronchi. A perinephric phlegmon or abscess is to be differentiated from a renal tumour by the absence of definition, by extension of the swelling into the surrounding parts, and by the fact that it does not move with respiration. A bulging in the lumbar region without a correspondingly large tumour in front is very significant, as is also persistent flexion at the hip. The abscess should be opened by the usual oblique lumbar incision, and its interior investi- gated both as to the existence of secondary collections of pus, especi- ally in the deep retro- peritoneal tissue, and also as to the condition of the kidney. Any suppura- tive lesions of this organ may be dealt with either then and there, or on a subsequent occasion. Tumours and Cysts Kidney.—Innocent growths, such as OF nerv Fig. 134.—Cancer originating in Parenchyma of Kidney and erupting into the Pelvis. (From Mr. Wallace’s Collection.) fibroma and adenoma, are merely of pathological interest. Cancer occurs in a diffuse infiltrating and in a circumscribed nodular form. A circumscribed cancer in the parenchyma may erupt into the pelvis, and cause bleeding and partial obstruction of the outlet (Fig. 134). Even diffuse cancer may not cause any appreciable enlargement of the kidney. Sarcoma is occasionally met with in childhood, between the ages of one and four, and it has been met with at birth. In addition to embryonic connective tissue, the tumour contains a proportion of newly formed epithelium arranged in a glandular manner, and a number of smooth and striped muscle fibres in the stroma. It. may attain an enormous size—equal to one- third of the weight of the body—but has comparatively little tendency to form secondary growths, or to fungate into the pelvis and cause hsematuria. YOL II.—37