133 HOSPITAL SORE THROAT. syphilis. If the perforation persists and causes trouble by allowing food to pass into the nose, or by giving a nasal tone to the voice, it may be closed by an operation on the same principle as that performed for cleft palate, or an obturator may be fitted to occlude the opening. Tuberculous ulceration of the palate is rare. Lupus may spread from the nose or lips and lead to widespread destruction of the soft tissues, or even to perforation of the bony palate. Simple tumours, such as lipomata, fibromata, dermoids, and mucous cysts, occasionally occur in the palate. Within recent years there have been recorded a considerable number of cases of mixed tumours, similar to those met with in the parotid gland. While they may remain benign for many years, they show a tendency ultimately to become malignant. They occur in young subjects, and grow in the sub-mucous tissue of the soft palate, usually to one side of the middle line. They are of slow growth at first, and give rise to no inconvenience save from their size. In their early stages they are easily removed and show no tend- ency to recur. Later they grow more rapidly and infiltrate their surroundings, so that complete removal becomes difficult or impossible. Elongation of the uvula is usually due to a chronic inflam- matory engorgement combined with glandular hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. It often occurs in children, and is associated with a constant hacking cough, which is usually worst when the patient is lying down. By tickling the back of the tongue and pharynx it may induce vomiting after food. The treatment consists in snipping off the redundant portion of the uvula with scissors. THE FAUCES, TONSILS, AND PHARYNX. Inflammatory Affections.—An acute catarrhal inflammation of the back of the throat, characterised by congestion and hyperaemia of the mucous membrane, is very frequently met with. It may be symptomatic of some general acute febrile disease, such as scarlet fever, measles, influenza, septicaemia, or acute rheumatism. It is comparatively common in those who are much exposed to air contaminated with septic organisms or sewer gas—for example, the resident staff of hospitals (septic or hospital throat). After exposure to cold or damp, individuals of a rheumatic tendency are liable to this condition. It may be produced also by the habitual drinking of raw spirit, by excessive smoking,