MALIGNANT DISEASE. G25 hour-glass constriction corresponding to the junction of the bladder with the urethra, and the larger segment of the stone usually occupies the greatly dilated prostatic urethra. The clinical features are seldom characteristic; we have observed pain referred to the point of the penis, cramp-like contractions of the bladder, hagmaturia, and dribbling of urine. If an olivary headed gum-elastic bougie is passed it may yield a sensation of friction as it passes over the calculus. Treatment.—The membranous urethra is opened from the perineum, and the stones are removed with an angled scoop or lithotomy forceps. Malignant Disease.—Cancer is met with after middle life, either apart from or as a later development of an enlarged prostate. The clinical features are similar to those of the benign affection ; the symptoms are, however, more rapidly progressive, and death usually occurs within twelve months of the onset. Hsematuria appears early, is more constant, and occurs apart from the passage of instruments, and blood or bloody mucus may drip from the urethra apart from micturition and stain the under- clothing. The patient is liable to sudden retention. On rectal examination the enlargement of the prostate is rarely uniform; it may chiefly involve one lobe, it is usually hard with a nodu- lated surface, and pressure on it may cause haemorrhage from the urethra. A latent form of cancer which is unattended with any marked urinary symptoms, but which may give rise to multiple secondary growths, especially throughout the skeleton, is sometimes met with. Various forms of sarcoma may originate in the prostate— sometimes in boys—and by their rapid growth fill up the bladder and project above the pubes ; they may also project towards the perineum and rectum. All that can be done is to relieve the symptoms by opening the bladder above the pubes and draining the organ by the suction apparatus. In spite of this the later stages of the disease are usually attended with great suffering, as the bladder becomes filled up with cancer and contracts at intervals in painful spasms. These are relieved by large doses of hyoscyamus or by inhalations of chloroform. VOL. II—40