THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 562 obstruction to the outflow of urine so that the calyces be- come distended and form abscess cavities. The term surgical kidney was formerly applied to suppurative affections of the kidney, because they frequently followed upon the passage of instruments or upon operations on the lower urinary organs. Pyogenic organisms may reach the kidney by the blood- stream—hcematogenous infection, or by way of the ureter from the lower urinary organs — ascending or urogenic infection. It is not always possible, either clinically or anatomically, to differentiate between these, and it is probable that they are frequently combined. The existence of pyelitis is not conclusive evidence of a urogenic infection, as the pelvis is commonly implicated by extension from the parenchyma, and may even be the primary seat of a hsematogenous infection. The kidney is specially liable to organismal infection if it be congested, or if its secretion be retained as a result of obstruction to the outflow of urine; hence it is that pyogenic affections of the kidney are frequently met with as a sequel of hydronephrosis, and of obstructive disease in the lower urinary organs. The blood infections, in which the colon bacillus is believed to play the chief part, may follow on any acute infective disease, such as carbuncle, lymphangitis, osteomyelitis or typhoid. The urogenic infections are most often met with as a sequel of septic cystitis, and the organisms concerned include the colon bacillus, staphylococci, streptococci and gonococci. Acute infective pyelonephritis is usually a complication of septic cystitis. It is a well-recognised cause of death in cases of chronic septic disease in the lower urinary organs. The most striking appearance is that of multiple minute abscesses scattered throughout the cortex and beneath the capsule, and of lines of suppuration in the medulla. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is in a condition of acute catarrh. The lesion may be confined to one kidney, but is usually bilateral, and is nearly always more advanced on one side than on the other. Clinical features.—The illness is of sudden onset, and is ushered in by a rigor which may be repeated • there is thirst, headache, and constipation; the tongue is dry, coated, and cracked, and the patient goes downhill rapidly. If death occurs it is preceded by coma and other symptoms of uraemia. There may be pain and tenderness over the kidney, but the organ can rarely be palpated. The urine is scanty and turbid, and contains pus, albumin, blood and tube casts, and, if there has been ante- cedent chronic cystitis, it is usually foul and ammoniacal.