314 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. possibility of multiple wounds of the intestine must be borne in mind. In some cases the protrusion of viscera—usually the omentum, less commonly the small intestine—is the most striking feature. The prolapsed viscus is exposed to infection, and this may spread later to the peritoneal cavity. When the case is seen soon after infliction of the wound, the viscus should be cleansed with salt solution and returned into the abdomen. If the omentum is much soiled, the damaged portion should be removed. If the intestine is wounded, it should be stitched up or resected before being returned. If the prolapse is of long-standing, extensive alterations may have occurred in the protruded viscus as a result of septic infection, or, where the opening in the parietes is a small one, by strangulation. The omentum or intestine may be gangrenous by the time the case first comes under observation, and the treatment for this is to be carried out on the same lines as in strangulated hernia. Abdominal wounds should be closed by sutures wherever possible, and the patient kept recumbent as after a laparotomy. Gunshot Wounds.—Those met with in civil practice are usually produced by pistol or rifle bullets discharged at close range, and they are to be dealt with on the same lines as stab wounds. In the case of gunshot wounds sustained in warfare the conditions vary so widely that no definite lines can be laid down regarding them. Recent experience has shown that when the abdomen of a fasting man has been traversed by a bullet of small calibre travelling at high velocity, it is better to abstain from operative interference The patient should be kept under morphin and nourished per rectum. Even when the abdominal cavity has been traversed by a bullet, and perforation of one or more viscera has almost certainly occurred, spontaneous recovery frequently takes place. If, however, in warfare the conditions both as regards the nature of the injury and the facilities for operating approximate those in civil practice, laparotomy should be performed, especially where there is evidence of internal haemorrhage or of perforation of the stomach or intestine. Wounds of the liver, kidney and spleen usually heal well, and require no operative treatment, except for secondary complica- tions, such as fistula or abscess. Diseases of the Abdominal Wall. Inflammation and Suppuration.—The subcutaneous cellular tissue may be the seat of circumscribed abscess or of diffuse