G4 DISEASES OE THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. glands. Temporary paralysis may result from inflammatory conditions, such as parotitis, or from blows or pressure over the nerve, for example by the forceps in delivery. As the nerve breaks up into numerous branches soon after it leaves the stylo- mastoid foramen, the paralysis may affect one or more of the branches. In brain lesions, such as haemorrhage, tumour or abscess, the facial paralysis is less complete than when the nerve trunk itself is implicated. The paralysis affects the opposite side of the face, but does not as a rule involve the fibres supplying the orbicularis palpebrarum. The chorda tympani nerve also escapes, and the sense of taste is therefore retained. Treatment.—In addition to removing the cause when this is possible, the paralysis may be treated by the administration of drugs, such as potassium iodide, strychnin, or iron, by the application of blisters, or by massage and electricity. These measures are most useful in cases due to blows or exposure to cold. When the nerve is accidentally divided in the course of an operation on the face, it should immediately be sutured. When this is impossible or fails, the function of the nerve may be restored by grafting its distal end on to the trunk of the hypoglossal or of the spinal accessory nerve. Facial Spasm.—Clonic contraction of the facial muscles (histrionic spasm) occasionally results from irritative lesions in the cortex or pons. Sometimes all the muscles are involved, sometimes only one, for example the orbicularis palpebrarum (blepharospasm). This condition may be induced reflexly from irritation of the fifth nerve, notably of the branches which supply the nasal cavities and the teeth. The treatment consists in administering nerve tonics, bromides and other drugs, and in the employment of massage. The facial nerve has been stretched with benefit, sometimes at the stylo- mastoid foramen, sometimes on the face. Any source of peri- pheral irritation must be removed. {VIII.) Auditory Nerve.—The auditory nerve is liable to be damaged along with the facial in fractures which traverse the internal auditory meatus. Both nerves also may be torn across just before they enter the meatus in severe brain injuries apart from fracture. Complete and permanent deafness results. Effusion of blood into the nerve sheath, or into the internal or middle ear, causes transitory deafness, and the patient suffers from noises in the ear, giddiness, and interference with equi- libration. (/X.) 'The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve is comparatively seldom