647 URETHRAL FISTUL.E. Peri-urethral abscess results from a localised form of cellulitis, usually occurring in the perineum, and sometimes originating in Cowper’s glands. The abscess tends to rupture both externally and into the urethra, and to cause a urinary fistula. The abscess should be incised as soon as it is recognised, and a drainage-tube inserted and packed round with iodoform worsted. External urethrotomy may be performed at once, or is deferred for a few days. Urinary fistuke usually result from peri-urethral suppuration, as already described; they are most commonly situated in the perineum, and there may be only one, or there may be so many that when the urine escapes through them there is a suggestion of the rose perforation of a watering-can. The only way to bring about healing, is to open up thoroughly the associated stricture, and in the majority of cases this is most effectually carried out by external urethrotomy. Urethral Fistulse,—-In addition to those met with as a complication of stricture, a urethral fistula may result from congenital malformations, from accidental wounds, from necrosis of tissue following circular constriction of the penis, from sup- puration in relation to impacted foreign bodies and calculus, from the ulceration caused by a new growth, from abscess in the prostate, and after operations such as amputation of the penis or lithotomy. The fistula may open on the under surface of the penis, in the scrotum, the perineum, or the rectum, and it discharges urine or a mixture of urine and pus. The patient complains of burning pain on micturition, and of wetting of his clothes, and he is usually sterile. The fistula rarely closes of itself, because it acquires a lining of epithelium ; when of long standing it may become the seat of cancer. There is rarely any difficulty in diagnosis, although in the absence of escape of urine a perineal fistula might be mistaken for a tuberculous sinus. Treatment is directed in the first instance to the removal of any condition which interferes with the flow of urine along the urethra. The fistula may then close of itself, or will do so after being laid open and having its edges pared. In recto-urethral fistula, the respective tubes must be separated from one another by dissection, the mucous membrane of each inverted, and the openings closed by sutures. In penile fistula resulting from sloughing of the urethra, it is often necessary to divert the stream of urine through an opening in the perineum before attempting to close the fistula. The edges of the opening are then pared, the respective layers separated by dissection, and like