THE THYROID GLAND. 228 of clinical importance in connection with the differential diagnosis of thyroid swellings, and inasmuch as repeated attacks of conges- tion are believed to play a part in the production of goitre. Acute Thyroiditis. — Acute inflammation may occur in a healthy thyroid or in a goitrous or cystic gland, and may either end within a few days in resolution, or go on to suppuration. It is due to infection with pyogenic bacteria, which usually gain access to the gland by the blood stream, as, for example, in typhoid fever, pyaemia, influenza and other acute infective diseases. Direct infection sometimes occurs from an abscess, a cellulitis, or a septic wound in the neck. It has also occurred from a foreign body impacted in the oesophagus ulcerating through and perforating the gland. One lobe is usually more involved than the other, but the condition may be general. When pus forms, it may be diffused throughout the gland, or may be collected into several small foci. Clinical Features.—The onset is sudden, and is sometimes marked by a rigor. There is great pain, and a sensation of extreme tension in the front of the neck which causes the patient to flex the head. The temperature is raised, and other signs of fever are present. There is severe headache of a congestive nature, and sometimes vertigo. The swelling takes the shape of the thyroid, and is firm, tense and elastic. The skin is not red, but the subcutaneous veins are dilated. In severe cases there is dyspnoea and pain on swallowing. When suppuration ensues, all the symptoms are aggravated, and repeated rigors occur. The pus may burst into the cellular tissue of the neck or into the air passages or oesophagus. Treatment.—In the non-suppurative stage the ordinary treat- ment of acute inflammation is employed, the neck being fixed by means of wool and bandages or by a poroplastic collar. When pus forms, the abscess should be opened by Hilton’s method and drained. Tuberculous and syphilitic affections of the thyroid are very rare. Goitre or Bronchocele. The term goitre is applied clinically to any non-inflammatory enlargement of the thyroid gland. Many varieties are recognised, although the distinction between them is not always well marked. For convenience of description they may be considered under the headings: parenchymatous, adenomatous, malignant, and exophthalmic goitre.