208 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. In ozsena the sense of smell is lost. Anosmia may also be of central origin. Parosmia, or the sensation of a bad odour, may be of functional origin; it sometimes occurs after influenza. It may also be associated with maxillary suppuration. Impair- ment or loss of the sense of recognising flavours is due to interference with the olfactory nerve. Reflex Symptoms of Nasal Origin.—It is only necessary to draw attention here to the relation which exists between affections of the nose and asthma. The existence in asthmatics of nasal polypi, erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies, spines of the septum in contact with the inferior turbinal, and the presence of areas upon the mucous membrane which, when probed, produce coughing, call for treatment with the view of modifying the asthma. Post-nasal Obstruction—Adenoid Vegetations.—The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is hypertrophy of the normal lymphoid tissue which constitutes the naso-pharyngeal or Luschka’s tonsil. Adenoids form a soft, velvety mass, which projects from the vault of the naso-pharynx and extends down its posterior and lateral walls, in some cases filling up the fossae of Rosenmiiller behind the Eustachian cushions. They do not grow from the margins of the posterior nares. Adenoids are frequently associated with hypertrophy of the faucial tonsils, and the patient often suffers from granular pharyngitis and chronic nasal catarrh. These growths are sometimes met with in infants, but are most common between the ages of five and fifteen, after which they tend to undergo atrophy. They may, however, persist into adult life. Clinical Features.—The most prominent symptom in most cases is interference with nasal respiration, so that the patient is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The facies of adenoids is characteristic; the mouth is kept partly open, the face appears lengthened, the nose is flattened by the falling in of the alse nasi, the inner angles of the eyes are drawn down, and the eyelids droop, while the whole facial expression is dull and stupid. As the respiratory difficulty is increased during sleep, the patient snores loudly, and his sleep is frequently broken by sudden night terrors. Owing to the disturbed sleep, to imperfect oxygenation of the blood, and to frequent attacks of nasal and bronchial catarrh, the child’s nutrition is interfered with, and he becomes languid and unfit for school work. When the adenoids encroach upon the Eustachian cushions, the patient suffers from deafness, frequent attacks of earache, and