351 TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. searchod for, and should be removed along with any concretion which may be found loose in the cavity. In these cases it is quite sufficient to ligature and cauterise the stump of the appendix. Drainage is then provided for by rubber tubes and gauze or worsted. This is spoken of as the “ complete operation.” If the appendix cannot be identified, its removal may be undertaken after an interval of a few days, by which time an intra-peritoneal operation can be carried out with safety. When the abscess is not adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, the general peritoneal cavity is necessarily opened, and must be shut off by packing with gauze, before the adhesions which limit the abscess are separated. This should be done gently, and the pus must be soaked up as it oozes out until the abscess cavity is emptied. The appendix is searched for and, if possible, removed, and drainage is provided for by tubes and worsted, the rest of the wound being closed with sutures. The tubes and worsted are removed in forty-eight hours, and replaced by a smaller and smaller amount of drain material until the cavity fills up from the bottom. When the abscess is in the pelvis, better access may be obtained by an incision in the middle line, and in some cases both a lateral and a median incision may be required. The appendix may be removed at the same time or after an interval of a few days. When the abscess is located in the pouch of Douglas, it is most efficiently drained by a tube brought out through the vagina or rectum. If the abscess approach the surface on the on ter side of the rcecum or in the loin, it may be opened and drained by means of an incision placed close to the crest of the ileum, keeping outside the peritoneal cavity. Sinus or Fcecal Fistula after Operation.—If a sinus or fecal fistula form, it usually heals during the ordinary period of con- valescence. If, however, the appendix has not been removed, or a concretion has been left behind, the opening persists, and the re- moval of the appendix should be recommended unless there is good reason to the contrary. The abdomen is opened by a fresh in- cision in the immediate vicinity of the sinus after the latter has been disinfected and packed, the caecum is identified, and the anterior longitudinal band followed down until the root of the appendix is exposed. This is divided and ligatured, and the stump invaginatecl into the caecum, after which the rest of the appendix is removed. If the adhesions are firm the muco- muscular tube may be shelled out from its peritoneal investment. A ventral hernia results in a certain proportion of suppurative