THE ORBIT. 123 Firm pressure applied by means of a pad of cotton wadding and an elastic bandage, if employed early, may limit the effusion of blood; and massage is useful in hastening its absorption. Wounds of the orbit may result from the introduction of pointed objects, such as knitting-pins, pencils, or fencing-foils, or from chips of stone, or metal, or small shot. They are attended with considerable extravasation of blood, which may be diffused throughout the cellular tissue of the orbit, or may form a defined hsematoma. In either case the eyeball is protruded, and the cornea is exposed to irritation, and may become inflamed and ulcerated. The optic nerve may be lacerated, and complete and permanent loss of vision result. Sometimes the ocular muscles and nerves are damaged, and deviation of the eye or loss of motion in one or other direction is produced. The globe itself may be injured. Foreign bodies lodged in the orbit, so long as they are aseptic, may give rise to little or no disturbance, and are liable to be overlooked. The Rontgen rays are often useful in determining the presence and position of a foreign body. All wounds of the orbit require to be carefully purified to prevent septic complications which might endanger the eyeball or the adjacent cranial cavity. In extracting foreign bodies, great care is necessary to avoid injury of the eyeball or of its muscles or nerves. Fracture of the margin of the orbit may result from a direct blow, and is usually followed by marked circum-orbital and sub- conjunctival ecchymosis. Implication of the frontal sinus may be followed by emphysema of the orbit and lids. The roof of the orbit is implicated in many fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull produced by indirect violence. It is also liable to be fractured by pointed instruments thrust through the orbit, in which case septic intra-cranial complications are liable to ensue, and these in a large proportion of cases prove fatal. When the inner wall is fractured and the nasal fossa opened into, epistaxis and emphysema of the orbit are constant symptoms. Sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, and more or less marked exophthalmos, are almost always present. Treatment is directed towards the complications. When the nasal fossae or the air sinuses are opened into, the patient should be warned against blowing his nose, as this act is liable to induce or increase emphysema of the orbit or lids. Injuries of the Eyeball.—These injuries may be divided into two groups—(1) those in which the globe is contused without its outer coat being ruptured, and (2) those in which the outer coat is ruptured.