425 VOLVULUS. is narrowed as a result of cicatricial shrinking of its own mesentery, subsequent to inflammation associated with disease in the mesenteric glands or antecedent disease in the appendix. The bowel affected is usually the lower end of the ileum, the caecum, and ascending colon. The peritoneal investment of the mesentery is thickened, fibrous and opaque, and is so contracted as to interfere with the peristalsis of the bowel. The clinical features resemble to a certain extent those pro- duced by stricture of the bowel. There are sudden attacks of pain in the belly and vomiting, which subside and recur without going on to actual obstruction. Distended coils of bowel may be observed engaged in peristaltic movements, and there is frequently a history of antecedent trouble in the abdomen and of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move. In these forms of obstruction it is rarely possible to make an accurate diagnosis as to the cause of the symptoms until the abdomen is opened, and each case must be dealt with on its merits. Limited adhesions may be separated. When there is extensive matting an anastomosis may be established between the bowel above and below the obstruction, or a temporary opening may be made in the bowel above (the selected coil being made to present in the wound). Although the conditions within the abdomen may look far from promising, such cases, especially those of tuberculous origin, usually do remarkably well. In cases of cicatricial contraction of the mesentery the thickened peritoneum is divided parallel with the long axis of the bowel, and sutured again at right angles to this. Volvulus.—This term refers to a twisting or rotation of a segment of bowel around its mesenteric axis. Volvulus most commonly affects that portion of the sigmoid flexure (which is now called the pelvic colon), chiefly because it forms a compara- tively long omega-shaped loop. The commonest cause is chronic constipation and unequal loading of the loop, so that it hangs down into the pelvis. In some cases the peritoneal investment of the meso-sigmoid is thickened and contracted so that the two ends of the loop are unduly approximated. In other cases, there is believed to be a malformation of the sigmoid flexure which predisposes to its rotation. The actual twist is brought about by irregular peristalsis, by alterations in the position of the body, or by the movement of adjacent coils of bowel or other organs. The rotation usually amounts to a half or a whole circle ; but sometimes the bowel is twisted two or three times on its mesenteric axis. The ends of the loop are occluded by their