555 HYDRONEPHROSIS. the pelvis of the kidney is Involved, urine does not escajie from the external wound. These injuries may also implicate the pleura, diaphragm, liver, or intestine. In uncomplicated cases the wound, if aseptic, heals well; if septic, suppuration is liable to ensue in and around the kidney. The external wound should be disinfected and drained, and complications dealt with as they arise. Subcutaneous Rupture of the Ureter is a rare injury, and usually results from violence applied to the anterior abdominal wall. The peritoneum over the ureter usually remains intact, and unless the rent in the ureter is blocked by a clot, a mixture of urine and blood accumulates in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, and forms within a few days or weeks of the injury, a rounded or sausage-shapecl swelling in the line of the ureter, which is tender on pressure. If the ureter be obstructed and strictured, the kidney becomes enlarged and constitutes a traumatic hydronephrosis. The advent of septic infection results in the addition of suppuration to any of these conditions. Treatment has usually been directed to evacuation of the retro-peritoneal collection by incision and drainage ; nephrectomy being performed in the event of suppuration ensuing in the kidney, or of a permanent fistula forming. If by means of the ureteral catheter, the diagnosis can be made with certainty, the operation of primary suture of the ruptured ureter is indicated. In the course of certain pelvic operations, such as removal of the uterus, the ureter is liable to be included in a ligature, divided or crushed so that it subsequently sloughs. If the injury is recognised at the time of its infliction, it must be dealt with at once. If completely divided it may be sutured, or if this be impracticable the proximal end should, if possible, be inserted into the bladder through a fresh opening. Hydronephrosis. (Synonyms: Uro-nephrosis, Neplirectasis, Renal Retention.) Rathoc/enesis and Morbid Anatomy.—If the escape of urine from the kidney be suddenly and completely arrested, as by ligation of the ureter, the organ soon ceases to secrete, and finally undergoes atrophy ; but if the outflow is merely hindered over a long period, the secretion continues, and the pressure of the urine gradually distends the pelvis into a cyst. The cause of the obstruction to the outflow may be situated in any part of the urinary tract, and in each individual case of hydronephrosis,