98 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. tumour implicates the sacral nerves, and causes symptoms of intractable sciatica. The presence of the growth is often only detected on making a rectal examination. Secondary cancer is not uncommon, particularly in cases of advanced scirrhus of the breast. It leads to extensive destruction of the bodies of the vertebra:, so that they are liable to undergo compression similar to that met with in Pott’s disease. Clinically it is associated with pain in the region of the vertebrae affected, and along the course of the nerves emerging in the neighbourhood. When paralysis occurs, it is of very rapid development, often becoming complete in a few hours. Actinomycosis and hydatid cysts also occur in the spine, and are very difficult to diagnose from Pott’s disease. Hysterical Spine.—This term is applied to a functional affec- tion of the spine occasionally met with in neurotic females between the ages of seventeen and thirty, and liable to be mis- taken for Pott’s disease. The patient complains of pain in some part of the spine—usually the cervico-dorsal or dorso-lumbar region—and there is marked hypersesthesia on making even very gentle pressure over the spinous processes. As the patients are usually thin, the pressure of the corset is apt to redden the skin over the more prominent vertebrae, and give rise to an appear- ance which at first sight may be mistaken for a projection. The general condition of the patient, the freedom of movement of the spinal column, and the entire absence of rigidity are sufficient to exclude tuberculosis. The condition is treated on the same lines as other hysterical affections of joints. Acute suppurative osteomyelitis of the vertebrae is a rare affection. It usually occurs in young subjects, and gives rise to severe localised pain in the region of the vertebrae attacked and to a marked degree of fever. Pus forms rapidly, but is deeply placed, and is not easily recognised unless it points towards the surface. The inflammation is liable to spread to the meninges of the cord and give rise to septic spinal meningitis. The treat- ment consists in applying extension to the spine, and in opening any abscess which may be detected. The disease usually proves fatal, and, indeed, is often only diagnosed on post-mortem examination. Rheumatic Spondylitis. — In rheumatic subjects the liga- ments, muscles, and intervertebral articulations of the vertebrae are liable to undergo changes similar to those met with in other joints. The affected part of the spine becomes stiff and painful, and changes occur in the bones and ligaments which result in permanent rigidity. In the cervical region the spine is twisted