470 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. peritoneum, it is opened within the adherent area. If the swelling is not adherent to the parietes, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze before the gall-bladder is opened. The contents of the bladder may be drawn off by an aspirator before the viscus is incised. Any gall-stones which may be present are removed. Drainage is then carried out as described under cholecystotomy, or the gall-bladder may be excised. The discharge does not contain bile unless the obstruction in the cystic duct is removed. Phlegmonous or Acute Infective Cholecystitis.—This is a rare form and runs a very rapid course, usually terminating fatally in a few days. It may be regarded as analogous to the sloughing or gangrenous form of inflammation in the vermiform appendix. It is generally associated with gall-stones. The gravity of the condition seems to depend upon the fact that infective peritonitis is rapidly induced before there is time for the formation of localising adhesions. The gall-bladder is enlarged, and its walls rapidly become softened and readily give way. The contents are purulent, and have a foul odour. The clinical features are those of acute peritonitis, originating in the right hypochondrium, with rigors, sweating and rapid failure of strength. Jaundice is sometimes present from catarrhal changes in the bile-ducts. Unless promptly treated by operation, the patient dies from general septic peritonitis. Gall-Stone Obstruction of the Common Bile-Duct.—This is a comparatively rare affection, because the stones seldom leave the gall-bladder and cystic duct, and when they do they are usually driven onwards through the papilla into the duodenum. A distinction should be made between the acute obstruction of the common duct which results when it is first blocked by a stone, and the chronic obstruction due to a stone which has lodged for some time. In the acute form the symptoms closely resemble those already described as resulting from a stone in the cystic duct; the colic, however, which is due to spasmodic contraction of the bile-duct, begins in the epigastrium, and radiates more to the left side of the abdomen, and through to the back between the shoulders. Tenderness, also, is most marked in the middle line between the xiphoid and the umbilicus. Jaundice is always present, but varies in intensity, according to whether the stone does or does not completely block the duct. If, as is frequently the case, the stone passes into the duodenum, the symptoms suddenly disappear. If searched for, it may be found in the motions; and if it is larger than a hazel nut, the suspicion is justified that