HERNIA. 378 for the truss is the same in both. For unilateral hernia a single truss is sufficient. The pad is usually a little smaller than that of an inguinal truss, and is elongated from above downwards to cover the femoral canal. It should press in a direction directly backwards, and the pad should not rest against the spine of the pubes. The understrap should be placed a little farther forward than in an inguinal truss. The metal spring may encircle the pelvis on the same or on the opposite side ; in the latter case the appliance is known as an “ opposite-sided truss.” Where there is difficulty in controlling the hernia, the pressure of the pad is rendered more efficient by incorporating it in a belt which encircles the upper part of the thigh. If, as occasionally happens, an inguinal hernia is present on the same side, the femoral pad may be prolonged upwards and inwards to cover the inguinal canal. The majority of irreducible femoral protrusions should be submitted to operation; this procedure is carried out on the same lines as in inguinal hernia. When operation is contra-indicated, the slighter forms of femoral hernia with irreducible omentum may be treated by an ordinary truss, the pad of which is concave instead of convex. Umbilical Hernia. Three varieties of umbilical hernia are described : (1) con- genital hernia of the umbilical cord, (2) umbilical hernia of infants, and (3) umbilical hernia of adults. Congenital hernia of the umbilical cord is due to a defective coalescence of the lateral halves of the abdominal wall, and has been aptly compared to a spina bifida. The contents of the hernia probably never at any time occupied the abdomen. When the gap at the umbilicus is small, the condition is described as a hernia at the root of the cord, and it may be controlled by means of a pad and bandage. When the gap is moderate in size, the hernia is sacculated, and over it are expanded the structures of the cord, which may be so thin as to be transparent. As this variety nearly always terminates fatally if left to itself, it should be subjected to operation if the condition of the child permits. The sac is opened, the contents returned within the abdomen, and the gap in the wall closed by sutures. The extreme varieties in which the abdomen is open throughout its entire length are practically eventrations, and are merely of patho- logical interest. Umbilical Hernia of Infants.—This form develops subse-