TEM PORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 157 of saliva. The power of masticating the food, however, remains impaired. The hollow behind the condyle and the projection of the chin persist. Reduction is seldom possible after the dis- location has existed for more than three months, but it has been effected as long as ten months after the accident. Attempts at reduction should be repeated at intervals of two or three days. In the event of failure it may be necessary to expose the joint by operation before reduction can be effected. In some cases it is even necessary to excise the condyle to restore movement. Sub-luxation of the Temporo-maxillary Joint.—In a few rare cases the inter-articular cartilage becomes loose, and is liable to be displaced and to interfere with the movements of the jaw. Annandale has successfully treated this condition by suturing the cartilage in position. Acute arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint occurs in two forms, non-suppurative and suppurative. The oion-suppurative form is usually due to rheumatism or to gonorrhoeal infection, and as a rule is bilateral. The patient complains of neuralgic pains shooting towards the ears and temples, and of pain in the joint on movement. The jaw is therefore kept fixed, usually with the mouth slightly open and the chin protruded. He is unable to masticate and the speech is indistinct. There is effusion into the cavity of the joint and a swelling may be detected in front of the ear. The inflamma- tion may subside and movement be restored, or fibrous ankylosis may result. The suppurative form either may be due to direct spread of inflammation from adjacent parts, as, for example, in middle ear disease, suppurative parotitis, or pyogenic affections of the lower jaw, or it may be part of a general pysemic infection, as some- times occurs after exanthematous fevers and in gonorrhoea. The clinical features are similar to those of the non-suppurative forms, but the signs referable to the joint are often masked by those of the adjacent inflammation. When the pus originates in the joint, it may point either towards the skin or into the external auditory meatus through the Glaserian fissure. The joint is usually completely disorganised and ankylosis results. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in other joints. Tuberculous arthritis is very rare. It may occur as a primary infection, but is usually secondary to tuberculous disease of the jaw, the temporal bone, or the middle ear. It leads to destruction of the joint and ankylosis. It is treated by incision and scraping, or by excision of the condyle. Arthritis deformans is a comparatively common affection,