656 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. through puberty is approaching, the testes pass on and reach their normal position in the scrotum. In other cases one or both testes are permanently retained within the abdominal cavity (cryptorehism) (Fig. 151), and may lie either in their original position below the kidney, or in the iliac fossa close to the internal abdominal ring. A retained testis is usually adherent to the peritoneum, and is not palpable the abdominal parietes. When situated low down, however, it may be possible to elicit testicular sensation on making firm pressure over it. When the gland becomes arrested at any point in its passage along the inguinal canal, the term imperfectly descended testis is applied. This is the most common of the congenital defects. It is sometimes found that the testis enjoys a fairly wide range of move- ment, being at one time within the internal abdominal ring, and at another well down the canal (Fig. 151). In some cases the arrest of the organ seems to be due to shortness of the spermatic cord, while in others the cord passes beyond the testis and hangs as a loop in the scrotum. The gland is easily recognised on palpation, and may be capable of being pushed back into the abdomen or downwards into the scrotum. Sometimes the testis leaves its nor- mal track altogether and comes to rest in some abnormal position, such as the perineum, the groin, the front of the pubes, or on the anterior abdominal wall. These abnormalities constitute the various forms of misplaced testis or ectopia testis. It is believed that the testis in these conditions is either dragged into its abnormal position by undue contraction of one or other of the fasciculi of the gubernaculum testis, or that it is pushed there by a hernia coming down behind it. The most common variety of ectopia is the perineal, in which the testis lies in a pouch beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia a little in front and to one side of the anus. The gland is surrounded by its tunica vaginalis, and the epididymis and Fig. 151.—Retained Testis on left side, and imperfectly de- scended Testis on right, in a boy, set. 13. The right testis forms a swelling in the line of the inguinal canal. The scrotum is contracted and empty.