460 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. introducing through the cannula a drainage-tube stretched upon a metal rod, and applying syphon drainage to carry off the pus. The multiple abscesses of the liver met with in pysemia are beyond the reach of surgical treatment. Hydatids of the Liver.—Hydatid cysts may occur in any portion of the liver, but, like abscesses, are chiefly met with in the right lobe. The clinical features vary with the size and situation of the cysts. When the cyst projects downwards into the abdomen, it usually forms a painless, smooth, globular tumour in the epigastric or hypochondriac regions, obscurely fluctuating, elastic, and resisting. The characteristic “hydatid fremitus ” or thrill, may be recognised on palpation if the wall of the cyst is lax. If the cyst wall is thick and calcareous, the tumour may appear to be solid. If the cyst is em- bedded in the right lobe, it produces no signs other than hepatic enlargement; if of large size, it may bulge the thoracic parietes, or project upwards towards the pleural cavity. Con- stitutional symptoms are slight or may be absent. Large cysts cause symp- toms referable to pressure on the diaphragm, stomach, or abdominal veins. If the cyst suppurates, the features resemble those of hepatic abscess. While spontaneous cure is possible by desiccation and death of the parasites, rupture of the cyst is the commonest natural termination, and it may take place into one of the adjacent abdominal viscera, or into the pleura and lnng. The diagnosis of hydatids may be confirmed by withdrawing some of the contents of the cyst through a hollow needle, and demonstrating the presence of scolices or booklets. This procedure is not recom- mended except as an immediate preliminary to operation, because of the risk of leakage through the needle puncture into the peritoneal cavity. Treatment.—The nature of the interference varies with the site and characters of the cyst. Cysts projecting below the costal margin are dealt with by the abdominal route. If the cyst is pedunculated and has a narrow neck, this may be ligatured and divided and the cyst removed. If it is surrounded by liver Fig. 105.—Hydatid Cysts of Liver. The right lobe shows one large cyst; the left lobe, two smaller ones. (From Dr. Harvey Littlejohn’s Collection.)