THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 666 There is often a moderate effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis, and, as adhesions are frequently present, the resulting hydrocele may be multilocular. As the disease progresses the tubercle nodules run together, caseate and liquefy, and the softened parts form adhesions with the tunica vaginalis, the scrotal tissues, and finally with the skin. Over these adherent parts the skin is thinned out and assumes a characteristic bluish-red colour. Eventually it gives way, and from the sinuses which form there escape at first flakes of thick curdy debris, and later a thin yellow sero-purulent fluid. As the epididymis is the most common seat of disease, these tuberculous sinuses are usually situated on the lower and back parts of the scrotum. When they are met with on the front and upper parts of the scrotum, it usually indicates that the disease affects chiefly the body of the testis. Sometimes a considerable area of the skin of the scrotum is destroyed, and the testis, covered with granulations, projects on the surface, constituting one form of fungus or hernia testis. These degenerative changes go on very slowly and insidiously, and are not necessarily attended with pain. The diseased parts, however, are tender, and testicular sensation is retained. The destructive process may become arrested, and the diseased tissue either undergo calcification or be replaced by cicatricial tissue. As a rule, however, complete disorganisation of the gland takes place, and the disease spreads to other parts of the genito-urinary system, or generalised tuberculosis ensues. Treatment.—In its earliest stages the disease may sometimes be arrested by placing the patient under the regime of a sanatorium or by sending him for a sea voyage. In hospital practice, the patients are seldom seen until the condition is too far advanced to yield to such general hygienic measures as are open to them. In the majority of cases, therefore, the only avail- able treatment is by operation. When the disease is localised in one portion of the epididymis it may be excised or scraped, and painted with pure carbolic acid. If the whole of the epididymis is invaded, it may be excised, care being taken not to interfere unduly with the vascular supply to the body of the testis. When the body of the testis is implicated it is usually advisable to excise the testis and epididymis, and if the vas deferens is in- volved, to lay open the inguinal canal and remove as much of it as is diseased. Any sinuses which may exist should be com- pletely dissected away. Syphilitic Affections of the Testis and Epididymis.—Several manifestations of syphilis are met with in the testis, the most