217 WRY NECK OR TORTICOLLIS. cases there is more or less constant nodding or jerking of the head. The condition is usually met with in adults of a neurotic disposition who are in a depressed state of health, and is due to some lesion, as yet undiscovered, in the nervous mechanism of the affected muscles—most probably in their cortical centres. By some authorities it is believed that the spasmodic jerkings are originated by certain movements habitually made by the patient in the course of his work. It has been observed in some cases that, as a result of astigmatism and errors of refraction, the patient has acquired the habit of repeatedly tilting his head to enable him to see clearly, and that these movements have become continuous and uncontrollable. The disease tends to become progressively worse until the patient is incapacitated for work or enjoyment. Sleep even may be seriously interfered with. Treatment.—Experience has shown that in well-marked cases little benefit is to be derived from drugs, electricity or restrain- ing apparatus. Massage has been temporarily beneficial in some of the milder cases. Of the operative procedures resection of portions of the spinal accessory nerve on one side, and of the posterior branches of the first three spinal nerves on the opposite side, seems to offer the best prospect of recovery. The spinal accessory is reached through an incision beginning at the tip of the mastoid process and passing downwards and forwards parallel with the lower jaw. The nerve runs obliquely from above downwards and backwards and enters the muscle on its deep aspect. Simple division of these nerves or resection of the spinal accessory alone has not proved permanently curative. In Kocher’s experience division of the offending muscles without interfering with the nerves has given good results. True spasmodic wry-neck must be distinguished from the hysterical variety occasionally met with in neurotic females. This, after lasting for weeks, or even months, may pass off com- pletely, but, like other hysterical affections, is liable to recur at intervals. The cicatricial contraction of the integument of the neck, which frequently results from extensive burns (Fig. 33), wounds, abscesses or ulcers, may cause unsightly deformity and fixation of the head in an abnormal attitude, and call for surgical treat- ment.