670 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. swelling increases rapidly and continuously until the testis may be three or four times its natural size. As long as the tunica albuginea remains intact, the normal shape of the gland is pre- served, and the swelling is of uniform consistence ; but when this capsule is perforated, the swelling becomes irregular in shape, bossy, and of varying consistence, some parts being soft and boggy, while others are firmer and more resistent. The epididymis is usually incorporated in the tumour mass and cannot be differentiated from it. The spermatic cord be- comes enlarged and thickened from congestion of its vessels, but is seldom directly invaded by the growth. In the early stages, the tunica vaginalis is distended by a clear, or more frequently blood-stained, fluid, but as the tumour increases in size the cavity becomes obliterated and the hydrocele disappears. Haemorrhage may occur into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and give rise to hsematocele. A malignant tumour is consider- ably heavier bulk for bulk than most other forms of testicular swelling. The scrotum is free at first, but ultimately becomes invaded by the growth, which eats its way through the skin and so leads to the formation of one variety of fungus or hernia testis. In both forms of tumour the iliac and lumbar glands are early and widely infected, and may be palpable above the brim of the pelvis. When the scrotum is invaded the inguinal glands become enlarged. These glandular masses, by pressing on the nerve roots, give rise to severe paroxysmal pain in the loins and back, and the pain may pass down the back of the thigh and simulate sciatica. The pressure on the pelvic veins causes congestion of the scrotum and cord, and oedema and venous congestion of the lower extremities. The bodies of the lumbar vertebrae are liable to become eroded, and complete paraplegia may suddenly ensue from pressure on the spinal cord. Secondary deposits commonly occur in the liver and lungs. The prognosis is always grave on account of the early date at which the glands become infected and the rapidity with which the disease becomes generalised. The treatment consists in performing castration as soon as the diagnosis is made. The whole gland, the cord as far as the internal abdominal ring, and any portion of the scrotum invaded by the tumour should be removed. The disease usually reap- pears in the glands or in the liver within a year, but the removal of the primary growth tends materially to prolong life and to diminish suffering. Cystoma of the Testis.—Several different forms of tumour are included under the term cystic disease of the testis. Some are