215 WRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS. I glands, and disease of tlie cervical spine, in which the head may assume an abnormal attitude, the position being that which gives the patient greatest comfort. The treatment consists in administering anti-rheumatic drugs, in applying warm dressings, and gentle massage. Permanent or true wry-neck is due to an organic shortening of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In some cases the trapezius, the splenius, the scaleni, and even the levator anguli scapulae muscles are also affected. The sternal head of the sterno-mastoid is always markedly shortened, and stands out as a tight cord. Sometimes the clavicular head is also prominent. The cervical fascia is con- tracted to a greater or less extent in all cases—a point of importance in connection with treatment. Opinion is divided concerning etiology of the condition. By some it is regarded as a truly congenital deformity resulting from an arrest of development from undue pres- sure on the foetus in utero, or from some ante-natal affection of the muscles or nerves. By others it is believed to result from cicatricial contraction of the muscle follow- ing a rupture of its fibres during delivery. There is evidence in support of both views, and it is probable that in some cases the deformity is really congenital, while in others it is acquired in the manner suggested. In some cases errors of refraction, astigmatism and other abnormalities of the eyes play an important part in the production of wry- neck. In rare cases torticollis follows paralysis of one sterno- mastoid. Clinical Features.—The appearance of the patient is very characteristic (Fig. 52). The shortening of the sterno-mastoid pulls the head towards the affected side, so that the ear is approximated to the shoulder. At the same time the head is rotated towards the opposite side and slightly tilted backwards, with the result that the chin is directed towards the opposite side, and is somewhat raised. The shortened sterno-mastoid Fig. 52.— Permanent Wry-neck, showing characteristic attitude of head, hemiatrophy of face on affected side, asymmetry of eyes, mouth, clavicles, and nipples. (From a photograph lent by Mr. Stiles.)