THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 530 snipping away tlie polypus. If the pedicle is very narrow, the growth may be twisted off without much risk of bleeding, but care must be taken in doing this not to tear the mucous membrane. When the base of the pedicle is broad, the anus should be dilated, and after the ligature has been applied and the tumour cut off, the mucous membrane should be sutured with catgut. The soft sessile adenomata of children are removed with the sharp spoon or curette. The papilloma or villous tumour of the rectum, although not common, calls for special mention on account of its tendency to show signs of malignancy by recurring after removal and assuming the characters of a carcinoma. It forms a red, lobulated growth, about the size of a crown piece, on the surface of the mucous membrane, covered with long, club-shaped villous processes. It is usually sessile, but the mucous membrane at its base may become loose and lax and form a pedicle. This form of tumour occurs in adults of both sexes, and gives rise to marked tenesmus and a profuse discharge of pale, sticky mucus and blood. There is not much pain, but the patient becomes weak and amende from loss of blood. The absence of fixation and induration at the base helps to distinguish the growth from carcinoma. The treatment consists in early and free excision of the growth, the incision being carried well beyond its margins. If recurrence takes place recourse must be had to excision of the rectum. Malignant Tumours—Carcinoma.—All forms of carcinoma are met with in the rectum, but the columnar-celled variety is by far the most common. The tumour originates in the epi- thelium of the glands of the mucosa, and on microscopic section exhibits appearances which have led to the name “malignant adenoma ” being applied to it. The growth may extend in the form of a flat plaque between the mucous membrane and the muscular coat of the rectum, until it surrounds the bowel and gives rise to a form of annular stricture. Less frequently it grows uniformly in all directions, projecting on the one hand towards the lumen of the bowel, and on the other towards the pelvic cavity where it presses upon and infiltrates adjacent structures. In a majority of cases the growth involves, either primarily or by extension, the part of the rectum above the reflection of the peritoneum—a point of importance in prog- nosis and treatment. Colloid degeneration (Fig. 121) occurs in all varieties of cancer, and particularly in those of rapid growth and occurring in young subjects. Sooner or later