473 STRICTURE OF BILE-DUCTS. and a sufficient amount of exercise prescribed. A course of treatment at Harrogate or Carlsbad is often of service in removing the chronic gastro-cluodenal catarrh which so frequently accompanies cholelithiasis. The recurrence of symptoms of gall-stones is nearly always due to incomplete clearance of the biliary passages. Pain and dragging sensations may, however, be due to adhesions. Sequelae of Gall-Stone Affections.—In addition to the in- flammatory conditions of the gall-bladder (cholecystitis) and of the bile-ducts (cholangitis) above described, there are a number of other conditions which may be referred to as complications or sequelae of gall-stones, namely, adhesions, stricture of the ducts, abdominal abscess, intestinal obstruction, fistula, and cancer. Adhesions frequently form from the extension of inflamma- tion to the peritoneum. These are of importance because they increase the difficulty of any operation for the removal of gall- stones, and because they may interfere with the functions of neighbouring organs. The pylorus, for example, may be dragged out of place, kinked, or even constricted by adhesions, and the stomach may in consequence be unable to empty itself and become dilated. More rarely adhesions in the form of bands constrict the colon, interfering with the passage of its contents, or even causing actual obstruction of the bowels. In such cases a consideration of the history is of great import- ance in suggesting the cause of the symptoms. If adhesions are diagnosed and the symptoms resist palliative treatment, operation should be undertaken and the adhesions separated. Incision and drainage of the gall-bladder may be carried out at the same time. In order to prevent the re-forma- tion of adhesions the right edge of the great omentum may be tucked up between the gall-bladder and the contiguous viscus (Mayo Robson). Stricture of the bile-ducts is not a common sequel of gall- stones. It results from ulceration of the coats of the duct where these were pressed upon by a calculus. The stricture may not give rise to symptoms for some time after the offending stone has been removed by operation or has made its way through the walls of the duct into an adjoining viscus. Stricture of the cystic duct results in gradual distension of the gall-bladder with mucus, so that it forms a palpable abdominal tumour. Stricture of the common duct is much rarer; it causes jaundice, at first slight, but gradually becoming more and more pronounced; the liver progressively enlarges ■ and the gall- bladder, if not already shrunken from gall-stone irritation,