THE INTESTINES. 452 health of the patient and the necessity of adopting means for its closure. Treatment.—In considering the propriety of attempting to close an intestinal fistula, it is to be borne in mind that in one group of cases the fistula is only an incidental element of the original disease which is still present, for example, tuberculosis, cancer, and certain lesions of the appendix, and that it is only advisable to close the fistula if the primary condition can be got rid of. In a second group of cases the fistula is the result of trauma, or of some disease which has run its course, and treatment is directed exclusively to the fistula. It is with the second group that we are here concerned. There is a con- siderable tendency to natural cure, especially in fistulae which are lined by granulation tissue, provided always that there is no obstruction in the bowel beyond. The patient should be con- fined to bed, the diet restricted to foods which leave little frecal residue, and the bowels emptied by enemata. The irritation of the skin around the fistula is allayed by soothing applications. To make the fistula granulate from the bottom, the track is packed with iodoform worsted which is changed at frequent intervals. If there is an abscess cavity, it should be laid open and packed. Natural cure is unlikely to take place if the fistula is lined with mucous membrane, and especially if there is a double tube of bowel opening on the surface with a spur or septum between. The septum may be caused to atrophy by the pressure of an india-rubber tube introduced so that one end is in the afferent and the other in the efferent limb of the segment of bowel concerned, or it may be mechanically compressed and divided by a screw clamp, known as an enterotome. More frequently recourse is to be had to some such operative measure as that suggested by John Duncan in 1873, which consists in separating by dissection the adherent edges of bowel and abdominal parietes, and stitching like to like. The mucous membrane is dissected up all round the abnormal orifice; it is then invaginated, and the raw surfaces stitched together by a series of interrupted catgut sutures; the margins of the skin are next pared and brought together by sutures of silkworm gut. For the closure of an artificial anus made in the colon by the surgeon, this simple procedure may require to be replaced by an operation in which the abdominal cavity is opened, the bowel separated from the parietes, and the opening in it closed by a double tier of sutures, usually inserted in a direction at right angles to the long axis of the gut. In some cases it is better to resect the