247 MALFORMATIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. is mainly medicinal, antispasmodic drugs, such as belladonna and bromides, being especially useful. A full-sized bougie may occasionally be passed with benefit. Paralysis of the oesophagus sometimes occurs after diphtheria, and in the course of certain diseases of the central nervous system, particularly bulbar paralysis. The chief symptoms are dysphagia, hiccough, and an irritating cough. Malformations. — Congenital Malformations—such as im- perforate gullet, stricture, diverticulum, or fistulous communica- tion between the oesophagus and the trachea—are rare, and are seldom within the reach of surgical treatment. Acquired Malformations.—Two forms are recognised—general dilatation and diverticula. General circumferential dilatation of the oesophagus is some- times met with. As a rule it is associated with paralysis or organic stricture. Diverticula may be produced by pressure from within the oesophagus, or by traction on its walls from without. When due to pressure from within, the diverticulum or pouch is usually situated at the junction of the pharynx with the (esophagus. At this level the posterior wall of the canal is normally weak, and the pressure on this weak area causes it to bulge so that a pouch is gradually formed. All the coats of the oesophagus may enter into the formation of the pouch, or the mucous coat may be herniated through the muscular. The pouch extends downwards between the spinal column and the (esophagus, and as it increases in size it presses on the oesophagus and so causes dysphagia. Diverticula produced by traction from without are usually on the anterior aspect of the oesophagus about the level of the bifurcation of the trachea, and are most frequently due to the cicatricial contraction of tuberculous bronchial glands which have become adherent to the oesophagus. Clinical Features.—In all these conditions dysphagia and regurgitation of food are the most prominent symptoms. The length of time the food remains in the oesophagus varies greatly. In some cases it is returned almost immediately after being swallowed, in other cases it collects for hours, or even days, before being returned. The regurgitation is distinguished from true vomiting of stomach contents by the fact that the material brought up is free of pepsin and hydrochloric acid, and by observing that articles of food, taken it may be some days before, are returned unaltered. When the food lodges for any length of time it undergoes decomposition, and the patient’s