THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 578 In adults the malignancy of sarcomata varies widely. The tumour usually causes great enlargement of the kidney, and in a considerable proportion fungates into the pelvis and causes hsematuria. Accessory adrenal tumours, derived from the suprarenal capsule, may originate in the cortex or immediately beneath the capsule of the kidney. In some cases they remain in- definitely of small size and innocent in character, but in others they become malignant and grow very rapidly, and are then differentiated with difficulty from other forms of malignant disease in the kidney. Malignant tumours of the kidney may perforate the capsule and infect the perirenal cellular tissue, may spread along the renal vein into the vena cava and spermatic vein and plug these vessels, or fragments may be carried off in the blood-stream and give rise to secondary growths. On the whole metastasis takes place at a late stage of the disease, and less widely than in malignant disease of other internal organs. Infection of the retro- peritoneal lymphatic glands is exceptional. Clinical Features. — In the child there are, as a rule, no symptoms until the tumour has attained sufficient size to attract the attention of the mother or nurse, and by this time the disease is so far advanced that operation holds out little prospect of permanent cure, and is scarcely to be recommended. In the adult, the tumour has usually existed for a considerable time before giving rise to symptoms, and attention may first be drawn to it by the discovery of a swelling in the loin, or by the occurrence of a profuse hsematuria. In a few cases there is an obvious failure of health, with anaemia and uneasiness in the loin for some months before any swelling, is discovered. Sometimes, and especially in rapidly growing tumours, there is pain which may shoot downwards to the thigh or testis; it is due to stretching of the capsule. Haematuria is common, and is due to the growth erupting through the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis. It may follow some exer- tion or slight violence, but there is seldom any obvious cause. The patient may experience no discomfort, or he may have to strain to express a clot before the urine, which is of the colour of burgundy, escapes. The urine gradually becomes clear, or if clots are a marked feature, it may cease abruptly from temporary blocking of the ureter. Clots may also cause typical renal colic, and worm-like coagula forming casts of the ureter may be passed in the urine. The recognition of a tumour in the loin is not always possible ; growths at the