57 HYDROCEPHALUS. Chronic internal hydrocephalus, on the other hand, is a com- paratively common condition. It may be of congenital origin, or may develop in young rickety children, usually as a result of some chronic inflammatory process in the membranes at the base, the choroid plexuses, or the ependyma of the ventricles. The com- munication between the ventricles and the subarachnoid space, by way of the foramen of Magendie, becomes obstructed, so that the cerebro-spinal fluid accumulates in the ventricles and gradually distends them. The pressure causes the head to enlarge, the fontanelles to bulge, and the bones to be separated from one another, the intervals between the bones being occupied by a thin translucent membrane. The cerebral tissue may be greatly thinned out, but the cerebellum and cranial nerves usually remain unaffected. The appearance of the patient is very characteristic. The enormous dome of the skull surmounts a puny and preter- naturally old face ; the eyes are pushed downwards and forwards by the pressure on the orbital plates, and the eyebrows are displaced upwards. The head rolls helplessly from side to side, the child moans and cries a great deal, and vomiting is often a prominent symptom. In most cases the intelligence is defective, and epileptic seizures and other functional disturbances of the brain may be present. In mild cases, especially when associated with rickets or syphilis, recovery sometimes takes place, but in the majority the condition progresses, and death results either from convulsions or from some intercurrent disease. Few hydrocephalic subjects reach adult life. Treatment.—In all cases occurring in infants and young children antisyphilitic treatment should be tried. The rachitic element must also be treated. Aseptic puncture of the ventricles is sometimes followed by a remarkable improvement in the symptoms, and may even result in apparent cure. A small trocar and cannula is introduced through the anterior fontanelle, to one or other side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and from a half to one ounce of cerebro-spinal fluid is withdrawn. This is repeated once a week for several weeks. Continuous drainage of the fourth ventricle through an opening made in the occipital region (Parkin) ; and the establishment of a communication between the ventricular and subarachnoid spaces (Watson-Cheyne), or between the sub- arachnoid space of the spinal cord and the peritoneal cavity, have been tried, with little more than temporary benefit, how- ever, in the majority of cases.