271 HERNIA OF THE LUNG. ligature either at or above the bleeding point. Below the level of the fifth intercostal space this operation is not possible. External haemorrhage having its origin in the lung is exceedingly difficult to arrest by local measures. Plugging the pleural cavity with gauze is practically useless. If the haemorrhage is serious, it may be justifiable to resect portions of one or more ribs and deal directly with the injured lung. The opinions of authorities differ regarding the expediency of exploring penetrating wounds with the probe. The majority agree that except in the case of gun-shot wounds—and some- times even in them—the probe should be avoided. The external wound should be purified, being enlarged if necessary for the purpose of removing portions of clothing, fragments of broken ribs, or other foreign bodies which may have been driven in. A drainage-tube or gauze packing is then introduced. Pmllets or other foreign bodies lodged in the lung may be extracted later, after having been accurately localised by aid of the Rdntgen rays. Hernia of the Lung.—In exceptional cases a portion of lung prolapses through a penetrating wound of the chest, either at the time of the accident or within a few hours of its occurrence. The protruded tissue is at first normal in appearance and crepitates when handled, but soon becomes congested and swollen, and, if tightly constricted at its base, is liable to slough. If seen early, an attempt should be made to reduce the prolapse, the opening through which it comes being enlarged, if necessary, and subsequently sutured to prevent recurrence. When the herniated portion has become gangrenous, it should be cut away after a ligature has been placed round its base. Apart from an open wound, a piece of lung may become herniated through a weak portion of the chest wall, for example, the scar left after the healing of a penetrating wound. The most common situation for such a hernia is the anterior part of the lower intercostal spaces. It is usually the thin, mobile edge of the lung which is protruded, and it is furnished with a sac derived from the pleura. The condition is usually produced by coughing, or other form of violent expiratory effort, and it has been met with in trombone and cornet players. The swelling is soft, smooth and crepitant. It increases on expiration and diminishes on inspiration, yields a vesicular murmur on ausculta- tion, and is resonant on percussion. Reduction is rarely possible without operation, and this is seldom called for, as the condition does not cause serious inconvenience. The swelling may be protected from external pressure by a suitable pad.