489 OVARIAN TUMOURS. calcified areas, and sometimes dark brown patches which indicate the position of previous haemorrhages. Adhesions to the omentum, the adjacent viscera, and the anterior abdominal wall, frequently follow attacks of localised peritonitis. The pedicle of the tumour is formed by the ovarian ligament, the Fallopian tube and the broad ligament, and as a result of traction it may be stretched till it is several inches in length. Clinical Features.—The amount of discomfort caused by these tumours varies widely, and bears no constant ratio to the size of the growth. In many cases the patient complains of a heavy, dragging sensation in the abdomen. Attacks of severe pain lasting for a few days usually indicate localised peritonitis. The rate of growth varies, but as a rule is comparatively rapid, and sooner or later pressure symptoms develop. The tumour may, for example, press on or displace the rectum or bladder and interfere with their functions. Sometimes one or both ureters are pressed upon, and dilatation of the ureters or hydro- nephrosis results. In about 50 per cent, of cases Kelly found albuminuria with tube casts. Indigestion, vomiting and flatu- lent distension may result from pressure on the stomach and bowels. When the tumour reaches great dimensions it exerts pressure on the diaphragm, producing respiratory and circulatory disturbances. (Edema of the legs, abdomen, and vulva is sometimes present, and the superficial abdominal veins may be greatly 'distended. Menstruation is disturbed only in about half the cases. The general health suffers and the patient emaciates. Dermoid cysts are due to inclusion of a portion of the ectoderm in the development of the ovary. During the period of maximum functional activity of the gland, this ectodermic remnant begins to grow erratically, and forms a cyst which con- tains such tissues as skin, with its accessories, hair, sebaceous and sweat glands, teeth, rudimentary mammary glands, and a thick pultaceous material composed of the inspissated secre- tion of the sebaceous glands and the debris of the epithelium with which the cyst is lined. In many respects these cysts resemble cyst-adenomata, but they are usually unilocular, occur at an earlier age, grow more slowly, and show a greater tendency to attacks of localised peritonitis. Parovarian cysts originate in the tubular remnants of the embryonic Wolffian body, in the layers of the mesosalpinx between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. They grow slowly and form smooth, thin-walled, unilocular cysts, over which the Fallopian tube is stretched out in a characteristic way. The