CEREBRAL IRRITATION. 19 necessary. Absolute rest and quietness are called for. When the symptoms begin to pass off, the head should be raised on pillows to prevent congestion and to diminish the risk of bleeding from damaged blood-vessels in the brain. The applica- tion of an ice-bag or of Leiter’s tubes is sometimes recommended with a view to arresting hsemorrhage inside the .skull, but its value is more than doubtful. Venesection and the application of leeches over the temple or behind the ear are sometimes employed with benefit. The use of small doses of atropin and ergotin is recommended by von Bergmann. The bowels should be thoroughly opened by calomel, croton oil, or Henry’s solution. A light milk diet should be given. The patient is kept in a dull room, and should be confined to bed for from fourteen to twenty-one days. It is often difficult to convince the patient of the necessity for such prolonged confinement, but the responsi- bility for curtailing it must rest upon him or his friends. Reading, conversation, and argument must be avoided to ensure absolute rest to the brain. Cerebral Irritation.—In some cases of injury to the head— particularly of the anterior part and the parietal regions—as the symptoms of concussion are passing off, the patient begins to exhibit a peculiar train of symptoms, which has been graphically described by Erichsen under the name of cerebral irritation. “ The attitude of the patient is peculiar, and most characteristic : he lies on one side and is curled up in a state of general flexion. The body is bent forwards and the knees are drawn up on the abdomen, the legs bent, the arms flexed, and the hands drawn in. He does not lie motionless, but is restless, and often, when irritated, tosses himself about. But, however restless he may be, he never stretches himself out nor assumes the supine position, but invariably maintains an attitude of flexion. The eyelids are firmly closed, and he resists violently every effort made to open them; if this be effected, the pupils will be found to be contracted. The surface is pale and cool or even cold. The pulse is small, feeble, and slow, seldom above 70. The sphincters are not usually affected, and the patient will pass urine when the bladder requires to be emptied; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. “ The mental state is equally peculiar. Irritability of mind is the prevailing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes, unless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of irritability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. It appears as if the temper, as much as or more than the