APPENDICITIS. 352 cases, owing to the defect in the muscular layers in the track of the drainage-tube. It is to be treated by means of a belt, or by an operation, which essentially consists in reuniting the different layers of the abdominal wall by several tiers of sutures. Recurrent Appendicitis.—Recovery from a first attack of appendicitis without operation is followed by recurrence in a proportion of cases which has been estimated at about 20 per cent. Recurrence usually takes place within a year of the original attack, and is said to be more liable to occur if this has been of a mild character. The suppurative forms are less likely to relapse owing to the destructive changes which take place in the appendix, rendering it less liable to infection, and less capable of transmitting infection to adjacent tissues. The anatomical changes met with in and around the appendix in recurrent cases vary widely. In some cases the appendix is to all appearance normal, and but for the fact that the attacks cease after it has been removed, it would be difficult to believe that it was the cause of the symptoms. In most cases, however, changes are found in the appendix or its vicinity which are obviously responsible for the recurrent attacks. The appendix, for example, may present one or more strictures, may contain a concretion, or may be bent on itself. Sometimes its lumen is entirely obliterated at one point, and the part beyond is dilated and club-shaped. Kinking or torsion of the organ frequently results from contraction of its mesentery, from an adhesion to an adjacent surface, or from strangulation by a band. Less commonly the appendix is bound to the caecum or buried in adhesions, so that it is only to be discovered with considerable difficulty, or it is attached to the ovary, the Fallopian tube, the bladder, the rectum, or even to some more distant organ, such as the gall-bladder. The clinical features vary widely both as to the frequency and severity of the attacks. After the original attack the patient may remain well for weeks, months, or even years before being- troubled again, or the attacks may recur at short intervals, so that the patient is never really well, and is unable to continue his occupation. In some cases the attacks are slight from the first, the patient never suffering acutely. The history frequently is that each attack commences with a feeling of discomfort in the abdomen, which the patient from his previous experience recognises as indicating the advent of another seizure. This discomfort is succeeded after a variable period by pain, which is at first slight, but gradually becomes more and more severe, and may be attended with vomiting.