386 HERNIA. In congenital hernia of the caecum the visceral descent is the result of the action of the gubernaculum. When the caecum is present in a congenital sac, there is usually a peritoneal fold—- the plica vascularis—uniting the bowel to the testis. This fold contains the spermatic vessels, vas deferens, and upper part of the gubernaculum; and as the testis passes into the scrotum it occasionally pulls the bowel after it by means of the plica (Lockwood). The caecum bears the same relation to the sac as it did to the parietal peritoneum before the descent began. In the operative treatment of these cases in which the caecum does not lie free in the sac, but is attached to its posterior surface, the removal of the whole sac is impracticable. The vermiform appendix may accompany the caecum, or it may be the only viscus found in the hernial sac. It can some- times be distinctly palpated through the coverings of a scrotal hernia. It is liable to become adherent to the sac or to the testis, and while it is very rarely strangulated, it may become the seat of inflammation—appendicitis within a hernial sac. Hernia of the sigmoid flexure is met with in scrotal hernia of the left side under conditions similar to those described as occurring in hernia of the caecum. Hernia of the Ovary.—In the congenital form, which is that most frequently met with, the ovary is protruded along a patent canal of Nuck. In infants the ovary may be felt in the inguinal canal or beyond the external ring as a small, rounded, solid body, which slips about when pressed upon, and is attached to a cord—the Fallopian tube—which can be traced to the internal ring. The ovary rarely reaches the labium. In infants the condition may be only a temporary one, the ovary returning within the abdomen as the child grows. It may, however, become irreducible. In adults the ovary is less readily identified, as it forms a mass very like adherent omentum. Occasionally it may be made to move by traction on the uterus through the vagina. If the patient menstruates, it may become swollen and sensitive at each period. The condition is best treated by operation. If the ovary is normal and can be easily replaced, it is reduced; if on the other hand it is diseased or irreducible, it should be removed. In the acquired form the ovary is usually accompanied by omentum or intestine. Hernia of the Urinary Bladder. — Gystocele.—This com- paratively rare form of hernia is met with chiefly in men after middle life, and occurs almost exclusively in relation to inguinal