9 SURGICAL ANATOMY. araclmo-pial membrane, which consists of a thick outer (arachnoid) layer, and a thinner, highly vascular, inner layer (pia mater). The pia mater lies in contact with the surface of the brain and passes into the larger fissures. The space between these layers—the sub-arachnoid space — is traversed by a network of fine fibrous strands, in the meshes of which the cerebro-spinal fluid circulates. Each nerve trunk as it leaves the brain or spinal cord carries with it a prolongation of each of these membranes and their intervening spaces. The membranes gradually become lost in the fibrous sheaths of the nerves, and the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces become continuous with the lymph spaces of the nerves. The cerebro-spinal fluid occupies the meshes of the sub-arachnoid space, the ventricles of the brain, and surrounds the intra-cerebral blood- vessels down to their minutest branches. Each nerve cell is surrounded by this fluid. Through the foramen of Magendie, in the roof of the fourth ventricle, the sub-arachnoid fluid of the cranial cavity communi- cates with that of the spinal canal. It has already been mentioned that each nerve as it leaves the central cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by this fluid. The whole nervous system, therefore, lies bathed in the cerebro-spinal fluid—a point of great physiological and pathological im- portance. The main function of the cerebro-spinal fluid seems to be to compensate for changes in the size of the brain resulting from increase or diminution of its vascular supply. An increased flow of blood to the brain, such as occurs with each cardiac systole, is accompanied by a recession of cerebro-spinal fluid into the spinal canal and nerve-slieatlis, while during diastole, as the blood leaves the brain, the intra-crauial pressure is maintained by the cerebro-spinal fluid again entering the cranial cavity. In cases of cerebral haemorrhage, abscess, tumour, or depressed fracture, room is made, up to a certain point, for the extraneous matter by displacement of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Its role in concussion of the brain will be referred to later. The Brain.—It is convenient here to consider briefly such points as have a direct bearing upon surgical diagnosis and treatment. Motor Function and Mechanism. — Grouped around the fissure of Rolando, in what are known as the central convolutions of the brain, are certain cortical nerve centres which together make up the motor area, and govern the voluntary muscular movements of the body. Each group of muscles has its own regulating centre, and these have been localised on the surface of the brain with approximate accuracy. For example, the upper third of the ascending frontal and parietal con- volutions is occupied by the centres governing the inferior extremity, and the middle third of the same convolutions contains the centres for the superior extremity. Still lower lie the centres for the facial muscles, the tongue, the pharynx and the larynx. In the inferior frontal (Broca’s) convolution is the centre governing the muscular movements concerned in speech. This centre is located on the left side of the brain in right-handed persons. The motor fibres pass from the cortex through the centrum ovale towards the base of the brain. They converge at the internal capsule, and pass through the anterior two-tliirds of its posterior limb. The fibres for the eyes, face, and tongue lie further forward, and next in order from before backward, those for the arm and leg. From the internal capsule the motor fibres pass as the pyramidal tract through the crusta of the crura cerebri, the pons and medulla. At the decussation of the pyramids in the lower third of the medulla