78 THE SPINE AND CORD. the body, and not parallel with the intercostal nerves. Above the anaesthetic area there is a zone of liyperassthesia, and the patient complains of a sensation as if a band were tightly tied round the body—“girdle-pain.” The motor paralysis and the anaesthesia are co-extensive. The intercostal muscles below the seat of the lesion and the ab- dominal muscles are paralysed. The respiratory movements are thus impeded, and, as the patient is unable to cough, mucus gathers in the air passages and interferes with respiration. As the patient is unable to aid defecation or to expel flatus by straining, the bowel is liable to become distended with faeces and gas. The meteorism which results adds to the embarrassment of respiration by pressing on the diaphragm. There is retention of urine followed by dribbling from overflow. As the reflex arc is intact there may be involuntary and unconscious micturition whenever the bladder fills. If septic infection of the bladder and the formation of bed- sores are prevented, the patient may live for months or even for years. Septic pyelo-nephritis, or ascending myelitis, is the most common cause of death. Lumbosacral Region.—All the spinal segments representing the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves lie between the level of the eleventh dorsal and first lumbar vertebra;. Injuries of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar vertebra;, therefore, may produce com- plete paralysis within the area of distribution of the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The anaesthesia reaches to about the level of the umbilicus. There is incontinence of urine and fasces from the first. Priapism is absent. Bed-sores and other trophic changes are common, and there is the usual risk of septic com- plications in relation to the urinary tract. Cauda. Equina.—As the cord terminates opposite the first lumbar vertebra, injuries below this level only implicate the cauda equina. The extent of the motor and sensory paralysis varies with the level of the lesion and with the particular nerves injured. Sometimes it is complete, sometimes selective. As a rule all the muscles of the lower extremity are paralysed, except those supplied by the anterior crural, obturator, and superior gluteal nerves. The perineal and penile muscles are also impli- cated. There is anaesthesia of the penis, scrotum, perineum, lower half of the buttock, and the entire lower extremity, except the front and outer aspects of the thigh, which are supplied by the external cutaneous nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. There is incontinence of urine and faeces. The prognosis is much more favourable than in lesions affecting the