532 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. laxatives more frequently than hitherto. This is most marked when the tumour grows round the bowel and forms an annular stricture. Slight bleeding, which the patient is apt to attribute to piles, frequently accompanies the movement of the bowels. Alternating with this constipation are attacks of what the patient believes to be diarrhoea, but what is really the passage of a small quantity of thin faeces together with much blood-stained muco-purulent matter. This is usually passed soon after the patient gets out of bed in the morning, and is a character- istic sign of rectal cancer. After this “ morning diarrhoea ” there may be a good motion, but the patient never feels that the bowel has been completely emptied, and usually has repeated calls to stool without being able to pass more than some blood- stained mucus. The attempt to empty the bowel is attended with severe straining which may induce the formation of a certain degree of prolapse or of intussusception of the rectum. The solid motions passed by the patient are sometimes altered in shape, being flattened or tape-like, narrow like a pipe stem, or grooved according to the disposition of the growth in the rectal wall. The odour of the evacuations is extremely and charac- teristically offensive. Pain is a variable symptom, but is usually present, and in some cases is agonising. It is of a stabbing or burning character, and is worst while the bowels are being moved. It is often influenced by posture, the position of ease varying in different cases. The pain may be referred to the bowel, to the sacrum, or to the distribution of the sciatic nerve, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for ordinary sciatica. When the bladder wall is invaded by the growth there may be pain and frequency of micturition, and if perforation occurs and a recto- vesical fistula is established, faeces and flatus may pass by the urethra. On making a digital examination, if the growth is within reach of the finger, the irregular ulcerated surface, with firm, indurated edges, will be felt. The rectum is usually “ ballooned,” and the mucous membrane below the tumour healthy. The degree of fixation of the rectum, and its relations to adjacent parts can also be estimated. The hollow of the sacrum should be explored and infected glands sought for. When the diagnosis is doubtful, a piece of the growth may be removed for microscopic examination. In many cases a satisfactory digital examination is only possible under general anesthesia, and when the growth is situated high up in the rectum the relaxation of the muscles thus induced enables the extent and connections of the growth