PROSTATECTOMY. G23 Haemorrhage from the congested prostate usually yields to hot baths, enemata, and full doses of ergot, but if it persist and give rise to difficult micturition as a result of clots in the bladder, a full-sized catheter should be passed and tied in for a few days. Obstructive clots may necessitate the use of the litholapaxy evacuator or suprapubic cystotomy. Cystitis calls for the usual antibacterial measures, but when it resists these and interferes with the general health and pros- l^ects of life of the patient, the bladder should be opened and drained, or a radical operation considered. Partial Prostatectomy. — This operation, with which the names of M'Gill and Bellfield are associated, consists in opening the bladder above the pubes and removing intra-vesical projec- tions of the prostate by means of scissors or forceps. In cases in which the obstruction to micturition is due to the so-called middle lobe, it is followed by complete relief of the symptoms, which may be permanent. Complete Prostatectomy.—-In this operation an attempt is made to remove the entire prostate, either by the suprapubic or by the perineal route. In the suprapubic operation (Freyer) the bladder is opened above the pubes, the forefinger is introduced, and the nail is made to tear through the mucous membrane and the film of condensed prostatic tissue over that portion of the organ which projects into the bladder. In the common form of enlargement, which is made up chiefly of adenomatous masses, the finger is easily able to enucleate these, the procedure being facilitated if two fingers of the other hand are inserted into the rectum so as to project its anterior wall and control the movements of the linger engaged in the enucleation. Finally, one or more tumour-like masses, which may or may not include the pros tat ic urethra, are displaced into the bladder, from which they are removed by forceps. If there are no independent adenomatous masses the organ itself is enucleated, but the process of separation is more difficult, the prostatic urethra is almost necessarily sacrificed, and portions of the ejaculatory ducts and of the membranous urethra may be found on examining the specimen after its removal. The bladder is irrigated with hot fVater and adrenalin (1-5000), a large drainage-tube is brought out at the wound and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a fortnight or three weeks the urine passes by the urethra, and the functions of the bladder speedily return to the normal. Whether or not the entire prostate is removed in the above operation is chiefly an academic question. We are inclined to agree with those who