FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. 37 almost every case tlie infected portion of bone should be removed to render possible the purification of the membranes and brain, and to permit of drainage. Depressed and Comminuted Fractures.—As in practice these varieties almost always occur in combination, they are best considered together. The terms “ indentation fracture,” “gutter fracture,” “pond fracture,” have been applied to different forms of depressed fracture, according to the degree of damage to the bone and the disposition of the fragments. These fractures may be simple or compound ; non-penetrating or penetrating. As a rule the whole thickness of the skull is broken, and, as usual, the inner table suffers most. In infants the bones may be merely indented, the fracture being of the greenstick variety. All degrees of severity are met with, from a simple, localised indentation of the bone, to complete smashing of the whole skull into fragments. Diagnosis.—When compound, the nature of these fractures is readily recognised on exploring the wound, but their extent is not always easy to determine. It is not uncommon for extensive fissures to pass into the base. A simple hfematoma of the scalp may readily be mistaken for a depressed fracture. The condensation of the tissues round the seat of impact, and the soft coagulum in the centre closely simulate a depression in the bone; but if firm pressure be made with the finger, the irregular edge of the bone can be recognised, and the depressed portion is felt to be on a lower level. Sometimes, on the other hand, a depression in the bone is obscured by an overlying lnematoma, and unless great care is taken the fracture may be overlooked. Treatment.—All are agreed that compound depressed and com- minuted fractures—whether associated with cerebral symptoms or not—should be operated on, to enable the wound to be purified, and the normal outline of the skull to be restored by elevating or removing depressed or separated fragments. Except in the case of young children, in whom considerable degrees of depression are frequently righted by nature within a very short period, most surgeons recommend operative interference even in simple fractures with the object of elevating the depressed bone, and to anticipate subsequent complications such as persistent headache, attacks of giddiness, traumatic epilepsy, or insanity. Others, including von Bergmann and Tillmanns, consider that the risk of such sequelae ensuing is not sufficient to justify a prophylactic operation.