484 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. A pancreatic cyst, if pedunculated or definitely circumscribed, may be excised instead of being drained. Malignant tumours of the pancreas, of which the commonest is cancer of the head of the organ, are only of interest from the point of view of diagnosis, as their removal by operation is very rarely practicable. In certain cases of cancer of the head of the pancreas it may be possible to relieve the jaundice and associated symptoms by cholecystotomy or by cholecyst-enterostomy. Stones in the ducts of the pancreas are met with chiefly in association with inflammation and suppuration in the gland. They may give rise to symptoms resembling biliary colic, but the pain and tenderness are located in the middle line, and the reflected pain is in the mid-scapular region. The occurrence of ague-like seizures is due to the associated inflammatory con- ditions. When the outlet of the main duct is blocked by a large stone, the common bile-duct may be pressed upon and jaundice result. If pancreatic calculi can be diagnosed, they should be removed by operation. The Spleen. Surgical Anatomy.—The concave, inner surface of the spleen lies against the fundus of the stomach and the upper pole of the left kidney. The convex, outer surface is applied against the diaphragm. The long axis of the organ corresponds to that of the tenth rib. The spleen is almost completely invested by peritoneum. From the hilurn the peri- toneum is reflected on to the fundus of the stomach as the gastro-splenie omentum ; and a similar fold—the lieno-renal ligament—passes back- ward to the anterior surface of the left kidney. The upper and posterior part of the spleen is overlapped by the left lung, from which it is separated by the peritoneum, the diaphragm and the pleura. The splenic vessels run in the gastro-splenie omentum, which may therefore he regarded as the pedicle of the organ. The splenic artery near its termination breaks up into a series of from five to seven branches, which enter the organ separately, and require to be ligatured individually in removing the organ. The functions of the spleen are imperfectly known, but experience has shown that, while removal of the organ may be followed by temporary enlargement of the lymphatic glands and by anamiia, the general health of the patient is not seriously or permanently impaired. Injuries.—Rupture of the spleen may result from a blow or crush implicating the left hypochondriac region. It may be complicated by fracture of the overlying ribs, or by injury to one or other of the adjacent viscera. The rupture varies in extent and depth, and is most frequently situated in the region of the hilum, thus implicating the larger blood-vessels. It is well known that the enlarged malarial