636 THE URETHRA. employed, at wliat stage. This is especially the case with regard to the question of attempting to cut short the disease at the commencement—what is called the “ abortive treat- ment ” of gonorrhoea. Comparatively few patients come under treatment at the very onset of the disease. Iodoform bougies which melt in the urethra have been employed for this purpose. Irrigation of the urethra with a solution of per- manganate of potash (Janet), if instituted within two days of the onset, rapidly cuts short the disease in many cases. This is carried out by means of a glass-barrelled syringe with a large acorn-shaped nozzle capable of plugging the meatus. The solution has been used in various strengths, 1 in 5000 being the most generally useful, and half a pint or more is required for each irrigation. The bladder having been emptied, a small amount of cocain is injected, and the first irrigation is confined to the anterior urethra ; twelve hours later this is repeated and the posterior portion is also irrigated, the syringe being sufficiently powerful to overcome the resistance of the compressor urethrae. The discharge becomes thinner and smaller in amount, and may disappear in two or three days, while gonococci cannot be found after two or three irrigations. The irrigation is repeated twice daily until the discharge disappears, and then once daily for two or three days more. In our experience this method has yielded gratifying results in cases in which the treatment has been begun not later than the third day. Similar results may be obtained with the salts of silver, for example, protargol, argyrol, or argonin. If the case is not seen within a day or two of its onset, we do not advise local injections as a routine measure during the early acute stage, because the benefits to be derived are far from certain, and the inflammation may even be aggravated, especially by injections carried out by the patient himself without proper precautions. During the declining stage, that is, from about the tenth day onwards, there is no doubt that the efficient application of chemical agents to the inflamed urethra diminishes the amount of discharge and hastens its disappearance. The agents most generally employed are the various salts of silver, the sulpho- carbolate and the chloride of zinc. Precautions must be taken to prevent additional pyogenic infection. The patient should pass water immediately before the injection is practised. A glass or rubber-ball syringe, provided with a urethral nozzle capable of plugging the meatus, is employed, and the solution is injected so that the different parts of the urethra are brought