22 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. cord, the pons, and last the medulla. Hence it is that the respiratory and cardiac centres hold out longest. Depressed Bone as a Cause of Compression.—It is more than doubtful if a depressed portion of bone is of itself capable of inducing symptoms of compression of the brain. When such symptoms accompany depressed fracture, they are to be attributed either to associated haemorrhage, or to interference until the circulation and consequent oedema which the displaced bone produces. Fragments of bone may, however, aggravate the symptoms by irritating the cerebral tissue on which they impinge. Foreign Bodies. — The role of foreign bodies, such as bullets, in the production of compression symptoms is very similar to that of depressed bone. That foreign bodies of themselves are not a cause of compression seems evident from the fact that it is not uncommon for them to become permanently embedded in the brain substance without inducing any symptoms whatever. Not only have bullets, the points of sharp instruments, and other substances remained embedded in the brain for years without doing harm, but in many cases the patients have continued to occupy important and responsible positions in life. After head injuries, the results of bacterial infection in the form of cerebritis, meningitis or abscess may manifest themselves, and be accompanied by symptoms of compression, the characters of which will be described later. Differential Diagnosis.—It not infrequently happens that a patient is found in an insensible condition under circumstances which give no clue to the cause of his unconsciousness. He is usually removed to the nearest hospital, and the house-surgeon into whose care he comes must exercise the greatest care and discretion in dealing with him. In attempting to arrive at the cause of the condition, numerous possibilities have to be borne in mind, but it is often impossible to make a definite diagnosis. The chief of these causes- are trauma, apoplexy or cerebral embolism, epileptic coma, alcohol and opium poisoning, uraemic and diabetic coma, sunstroke, and exposure to cold. The commonest error is to mistake a case of cerebral compression for one of drunkenness. It is scarcely necessary to say that a man who smells of alcohol is not necessarily intoxicated. The drink may have been given with the object of reviving him. In many cases one or other of the above-named conditions has caused the patient to fall, and in his fall he has sustained head injuries. Wherever there is the least doubt, therefore, the patient should be admitted to hospital.