79 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE CORD. cord itself, and there is a much greater prospect of life being prolonged for years if septic complications be avoided. Treatment.—Apart from the injury to the spine, the treat- ment of patients suffering from total transverse lesions of the cord is chieffy symptomatic, and is largely directed towards the prevention of septic complications from bed-sores and cystitis. Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve-roots.—Partial lesions of the cord, such as bruises, lacerations, or partial ruptures, usually result from distortions or incomplete fractures and dislocations of the spine. They are comparatively rare. When the nerve-roots alone are injured sensory phenomena predominate. Formication, radiating pains, and neuralgia are present in the area of distribution of the nerves im- plicated. There is motor paresis or paralysis, which may disappear either suddenly or gradually, or may persist and be followed by marked atrophy of the muscles concerned. In con- trast to what is observed from pressure by tumours and in- flammatory products, twitchings and cramps are rare. In partial lesions of the cord the motor phenomena pre- dominate. Paresis extends to the whole of the motor area below the seat of the lesion, but the weakness is more marked on one side of the body. The distal parts—feet and legs— suffer more than the proximal—arms and hands. The paresis develops slowly, may vary in extent and degree, and may soon improve. Yaso- motor disturbances accompany the motor symptoms. Irritative phenomena, such as twitchings or con- tractures, may come on later. Sensory disturbances may be entirely absent. When present they are incomplete, and are chiefly irritative in character. They may not reach the same level as the motor phenomena, and the different sensory functions are unequally disturbed in the areas corresponding to the several nerve-roots. There is sometimes a combination of hypersesthesia on one side and anaesthesia on the other. The deep reflexes, particularly the knee-jerks, may be absent at first, but they soon return, and are usually exaggerated. Retention of urine is not always present even when the limbs are completely paralysed, as the fibres of one side of the cord are sufficient to maintain the functions of the bladder. The patient may be aware that the bladder is full, although he is unable to empty it. Similarly sensation in the rectum and anus may be retained although the control of the sphincters is lost. Priapism may be present, but tends to disappear. The prognosis is generally favourable, but must be guarded,