481 CYSTS OF THE PANCREAS. symptoms of pyloric obstruction may result from pressure on the duodenum by the enlarged head of the gland. The condition is to be diagnosed from stone in the common bile-duct, and from cancer of the head of the pancreas. In many cases an exploratory operation is necessary, and even then it may be difficult to differentiate between pancreatitis and cancer. The exploratory incision is made vertically through the right rectus. The treatment consists in getting rid of any condition which may be regarded as causing the pancreatitis. In many cases relief of the symptoms or a complete cure may follow the removal of gall-stones or simple drainage of the gall-bladder. If there are calculi in the pancreatic duct, they must be re- moved by incising either the duodenum or the substance of the pancreas itself. In cases which are deeply jaundiced there is considerable risk of the operation being followed by haemor- rhage. Cysts of the Pancreas.—The term pancreatic cyst has been applied not only to a true cyst of the pancreas, but also to an accumulation of fluid in the lesser sac of the peritoneum (Jordan Lloyd). From the fact that a true pancreatic cyst may project into and distend the lesser sac, or may rupture into it, it may be difficult or impossible to differentiate clinically between these conditions. True pancreatic cysts originate in different ways, and are usually the result of some antecedent disease of the gland. The view formerly held that they are of the nature of retention cysts due to blocking of the main duct has little to support it, although it cannot altogether be excluded. Cyst formation in the pancreas may follow upon inflammatory changes, especially such as in- volve the smaller ducts, upon necrosis of the glandular tissue, haemorrhage into its substance, or changes brought about by injury. A small number are of the nature of new growths, chiefly cyst-adenomata. The true cysts may be uni- or multilocular, and are usually located in the head or in the tail of the gland. They may attain the size of a child’s head, but are seldom larger. The contents are usually turbid, often mixed with blood, and occa- sionally they exhibit certain of the digestive properties of pan- creatic juice. False cysts or accumulations in the lesser sac of the peritoneum usually follow upon a blow or crush of the upper part of the abdomen. They may develop within a few days of the injury, or not until after the lapse of some months. They sometimes VOL. II—31