512 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. portion of the rectal wall, for example, the excision of a malignant growth or the operation for prolapse ; or in which extensive and irregular incisions are made in the bowel, as in the treatment of complicated fistulae. The proportion of syphilitic cases has probably been exagger- ated on account of the tendency to attribute to syphilis all strictures in which no other definite cause can be discovered. Tuberculous stricture is less common than the syphilitic form, as patients who suffer from tuberculous ulceration of the rectum are usually the subjects of advanced pulmonary phthisis, and succumb to this disease before cicatrisation of the ulcer takes place. It is to be borne in mind, however, that cicatricial con- traction resulting in stenosis may take place although healing of the ulcer has not occurred. Stricture may affect any portion of the rectum, but in the great majority of cases is within two or three inches of the anal orifice. The shape and extent of the constriction vary with the cause. When due to diffuse inflammation of the whole thickness of the bowel, for example, it is usually tubular, and implicates several inches of the lumen ; when due to a simple or syphilitic ulcer, it is annular ; while in tuberculous cases it tends to be irregular. The bowel above the stricture is dilated, its muscular coat hypertrophied, its mucous membrane the seat of chronic catarrh and ulceration, and perirectal abscess and fistulae may develop. In strictures high up the rectum is distended or “ ballooned ” below the stricture, owing to paralysis of the muscular coat and distension of the bowel by gas and faeces. If the constriction is low down, the tone of the sphincters is lost, and the anus becomes patulous, admitting of prolapse of the mucous membrane. Clinical Features.—Non-malignant stricture is most commonly met with in females between the ages of twenty and forty. There is usually a history of some inflammatory or ulcerative condition, followed by a varying interval during which the patient is free of rectal trouble. Later, there is a gradually increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move, and unless recourse is had to drugs or enemata, they may be constipated for days or even weeks. The diameter of solid motions is often greatly reduced. When hard scybalous masses collect above the stricture and irritate the bowel, attacks of diarrhoea supervene, the patient passing quantities of fluid faeces and mucus, but never com- pletely emptying the bowel. Loss of control is a common complaint on the part of the patient. There is frequently a discharge of blood-stained, muco-purulent material, which escapes