184 THE EA11, A careful examination, not only of the ear, but also of the throat and teeth, should therefore be made in all cases of earache. Vertigo, or giddiness, may be produced by causes which alter the tension of the labyrinthine fluid, such, for example, as the pressure of wax upon the tympanic membrane, or exudation into the middle ear or into the labyrinth. Giddiness occurring in the course of chronic middle-ear suppuration may be significant of labyrinthine or intra-cranial mischief, but is not necessarily so. Giddiness preceded by nausea suggests a gastric origin; if followed by nausea it points to an aural origin. Discharge from the ear, or otorrhoea, is occasionally due to an eczematous condition of the skin lining the external meatus. It is then usually of a thin, watery character, and contains epi- thelial flakes and debris. An aural discharge is, however, most commonly of middle-ear origin. It may be muco-purulent and stringy, or purulent and of thicker consistence. A peculiar, offensive odour is characteristic of chronic middle-ear suppura- tion. The surgeon should smell the speculum in suspicious cases. He should never accept the patient’s statement as regards the absence of discharge, but should satisfy himself by inspection and by the introduction of a cotton-wool wick. The Hearing Tests.—-In testing the hearing a definite routine method should be adopted, the watch, whisper, voice, and tuning-fork tests being systematically employed. Although the patient only complains of one ear, both must be examined. Each ear should be examined separately, and the patient should be so placed that he cannot see the lips of the examiner. While one ear is being tested, the other should be carefully closed with the finger. Each test should be commenced outside the probable normal range of hearing. All the results should be written down at once, and the date of the test recorded, as this is essential for following the progress of the case. Tuning -fork Tests. — In order to differentiate between deafness due to a lesion in the sound-conducting apparatus and that due to labyrinthine causes, it is necessary to enter into a little more detail. The vibrations of a tuning-fork are conducted to the nerve terminations in the labyrinth both through the air column in the external meatus (air-conduction), and through the cranial bones (bone-conduction). When in a deaf ear the vibrations of a tuning-fork placed in contact with the mastoid process are heard better than when the fork is held beside the ear, the lesion is in the sound-conducting apparatus. When, on the other hand, the vibrations are heard better by aii’-conduction, the lesion is in the sound-perceiving apparatus. In addition to