190 THE EAR. Sometimes from the admixture of a quantity of epithelium it is almost white in colour. Treatment.—The ear should be syringed with a warm antiseptic or sterilised solution. The advantage of this over ordinary tap water is that, if a dry perforation of the tympanic membrane happens to co-exist, the introduction of septic material may again light up a middle-ear suppuration. The lotion is at a suitable temperature for the patient if the finger can be comfortably held in it. The ear should be turned to the light, a towel placed over the patient’s dress, and a kidney basin held under the auricle and close to the cheek. A syringe provided with metal rings for the fingers and armed with a fine ear nozzle should be held with the point inserted just within the aperture of the external meatus and in contact with the roof of the canal. Care must be taken that all the air is first removed from the syringe. To straighten the canal the pinna should be pulled upwards and backwards by the left hand. It may be necessary to exert some considerable degree of force before the plug becomes dislodged, but this must be done with caution. The ear should then be dried out with cotton-wool, and a small plug of wool inserted for a few hours. If pain is complained of, or if the wax is hard and cannot be readily removed, the syringing should be stopped and means taken to soften it by the instillation of a few drops of a solution of bicarbonate of soda (10 grains to the ounce of water or glycerine) or of peroxide of hydrogen several times daily. Eczema of the external meatus is often associated with eczema of the auricle and of the surrounding parts. Not infrequently there also exists a chronic middle-ear suppuration which may be the cause of the eczema. Intense itchiness is the most characteristic symptom, and a watery discharge may also be complained of. Deafness and tinnitus are dependent upon the accumulation of epithelium and debris. After the ear is syringed the skin may present a dry scaly appearance, while sometimes fissures and an indurated condition of the outer end of the meatus may be noted. Rarely is the outer surface of the tympanic membrane itself involved. Treatment consists in keeping the ear clean by syringing and careful drying. Probably the best local application is nitrate of silver (10 grains to the ounce of spiritus setheris nitrosi). This is applied by means of a grooved probe armed with a small piece of cotton-wool. Care should be taken that none of the fluid is allowed to escape upon the cheek, otherwise staining of the skin occurs. A plug of cotton-wool is inserted, and the