587 RUPTURE OF BLADDER. of the absence of any sphincter muscle the incontinence is not benefited, and if decomposition of the urine with deposition of lime salts take place, the newly-formed bladder is liable to become the seat of stone formation. Within recent years surgeons have endeavoured to overcome the incontinence by trans- planting the ureters into the sigmoid flexure. To diminish the risk of ascending infection from the bowel, Maydl of Vienna transplanted the segment of bladder wall containing the ureteral orifices intact, thus preserving the valvular character of these openings. More recently an extra-peritoneal operation has been introduced by Peters of Toronto, the ureters being inserted into the rectum. After either of these procedures the patient is able to retain the urine in the rectum for several hours, and to void it at will independently of the freces. The mucous membrane of the extroverted bladder soon regains a healthy appearance, and may be left alone, or it may be excised, the resulting raw surface being covered over with grafts or flaps of skin derived from the adjacent abdominal wall. Hernia of the bladder—or cystocele—is described under Hernia. Injuries.—Rupture.—Rupture of the bladder is a serious form of injury met with chiefly in adult males. It may result from any form of violence applied to the lower segment of the belly, such as a blow, a kick, a crush by the wheel of a vehicle, or a fall on a projecting object. It is a frequent complication of fracture of the pelvis. The bladder may be perforated by a catheter or other instrument introduced into its interior. Violence applied to the abdominal wall is more likely to rupture the bladder if the organ be distended. Intra-peritoneal rupture is that form which involves the por- tion of bladder covered by peritoneum, and is nearly always the result of violence applied to the abdominal wall when the organ is distended. The tear is vertical or oblique, and is very con- stantly situated at the highest part of the posterior wall, a fact which was formerly believed to be due to the impact of the organ against the promontory of the sacrum, but is now ascribed to the arrangement of the muscular fibres, the tear occurring where the mucous membrane is least supported. The rupture is believed to take place from within outwards, and the serous coat is that most widely torn. The ruptured organ collapses, and the urine, slightly tinged with blood, escapes into the peritoneal cavity, and comes to lie in the pouch of Douglas and among the coils of intestine. In spite of active absorption by the peritoneum, the amount of urine in the abdomen increases,