poultry and game. 41 them with two ounces of chicken forcemeat mixed with two truffles and four mushrooms also finely sliced. Butter a copper saute pan and lay in gently the six breasts. Take each small fillet and press it gently with the fingers to give it shape; then make six small slanting incisions on top of each and insert in these slices of truffle cut with a tube half an inch in diameter. Slightly moisten the top of every breast with water, carefully arrange one fillet on top of each lengthwise and sprinkle over a little clarified butter, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan, but not over the supreme, a quarter of a wineglassful of Madeira wine and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover with the lid and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour one pint of hot Toulouse garnishing on a hot dish, take out the supreme from the oven, neatly arrange it over the garnish, adjust paper ruffles on each wing bone, and serve at once. Mrs. M. J. Connell. CHICKEN A LA TERRAPIN. Three pints of cold boiled chicken, three hard-boiled eggs, three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour that has been browned in the oven, half a point of chicken stock, one pint of good, rich milk, one wine glass of Madeira, one even teaspoon of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one-half teaspoon of mace, one cup of butter. Mince the chicken fine, rub the eggs through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a large stewpan and add the flour; next add the stock and milk which has been scalded; the chicken in which all the seasoning has been mixed and eggs; cook slowly half an hour on the back of the stove. Just before serving, add the wine. Serve on brown toast. Suffi- cient for twenty-five persons. Mrs. M. T. Allen. WILD DUCKS. ' Four or five wild ducks, one onion chopped fine, three slices bacon cut fine, three cups of stale bread crumbs wet in a little milk, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one teaspoon salt, one dozen black olives cut in pieces, one egg. In preparing the ducks, wash and wipe well the inside, and rub with onion or garlic, according to taste. This will remove any fishy taste