26 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. sliced fine and the juice. Stir it twenty minutes, then add one cup of milk and two cups of stock, a tablespoonful of butter, two of flour rubbed together, and add to the soup a very little red pepper if desired. Mrs. E. D. Neff nut's SWUUT PUA SOUP. Boil half pint shelled sweet peas until tender. Remove, drain and mash through a sieve. Retain pulp, adding a little water, butter the size of a walnut, and pepper and salt to suit taste. In a separate saucepan boil one and one-half pints of milk slightly thickened with flour. Mix half and half of each when serving. Mrs. Alfred J. Bayer. ONION SOUP. Put some butter in a pan over a brisk fire; cut in thin slices two large onions and fry them in the butter till they are light yellow but not brown. Then mix with them a level tablespoon- ful of flour and allow it to cook until it becomes light brown, stirring it constantly. Then gradually pour in about a quart of milk, and half a quart of water; salt and pepper. Allow the mixture to boil for at least fifteen minutes. Before serving, pour the boiling soup over some thin slices of bread. This soup can be made without milk. If water only is usea the hot soup just before serving can be slowly poured into two yellows of eggs and well stirred. It then becomes cream col- ored. Marthe DurneriN. OKRA GUMBO. - Cut a quart of okra in thin, small slices. Fry it in a large tablespoonful of lard. Put a tablespoonful of lard and a large spoonful of sifted floor in a granite or porcelain saucepan, and stir carefully until the flour acquires a deep brown color, then put in a finely chopped onion and continue to stir until it is thoroughly cooked. Add the fried okra and any scraps of cold turkey or chicken; stir this all a while and add half a can of tomatos, three cloves, a teaspoon ful «of Worcestershire sauce; salt and red and black pepper to taste. Then add a quart of hot water, stirred in slowly; let boil with the lid on until as thick as desired. Serve with boiled rice. Mrs. L. A. Grant.