12 landmarks club cook book. ATOLE DE PINA (MEXICO). (Pineapple Gruel) : The Mexicans prepare the corn for alole in much the same way as for tamales; but it is verv nice made as follows : Into five pints of fast-boiling water besprinkle eleven heaping tablespoons of Indian meal and one teaspoon of salt. Stir well and boil for an hour. Grate one-half of a large pineapple; mix with it one pound of sugar, a small bit of cin- namon, one pint of boiling water, stir well and strain into the boiling meal. Stir the mixture well again, pour into a pitcher and serve hot or cold. If cold, it looks pretty in glass custard cups. CAJETA DE CAMOTE Y PINA (MEXICO). Clarify one and one-half pounds of sugar, strain and place again on the fire, and let it boil until when you let it fall from the spoon it is clear and smooth as a mirror. Take it off the fire and add two pounds of camote (sweet potatos) which have been boiled, mashed, and pressed through a sieve. Return to the fire, stir constantly so that it will not stick, and when you can see the bottom of the saucppan add one-quarter of a pine- apple which has been grated on a bread grater, and strained. Place again on the fire until you can see bottom once more, and it is done. Serve in a preserve dish and eat'with a fork or spoon. This makes a delicious dessert, and is well worth any trouble to make. Instead of pineapples, apples may be used in this recipe with great success, and it is much easier made. Peel, slice and core one and one-half pounds of apples, stew very soft and add to the mixture in place of the pineapple. CAJETA DE LECHE (MEXICO). Take six pints of milk, one and one-half pounds of brown sugar, and a tablespoon of flour. First clarify the sugar, that is, beat up the white of one egg thoroughly with a cup of cold water, and add this to the sugar dissolved with one of water. Heat the whole mixture until a scum appears. Remove from the fire and skim. Repeat until no scum arises. Then put three pints of the milk, the clarified sugar, and the flour (pre-