VI LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. hundred tons of debris removed, and a new era of care- taking introduced. Without such steps, most of these great buildings (being of adobe, which is almost imperishable if protected but very vulnerable to dampness) would have been mere mounds by 1905. As it is, the repaired ones will now stand about as they are for another full century. Yet only a very small part of the necessary work of protection has yet been accomplished. Each of these Missions was not a mere church, but a little walled city in the wilder- ness, with scores of buildings and miles of walls. Only the chief buildings at each of these three places have thus far been safeguarded—and of their size and beauty, as well as of the work done upon them by the club, some idea may be had from the illustrations in this volume. For the great work yet to be done, funds are urgently needed ; and the club appeals to all who can feel for such a cause. Member- ship in the club is $1 a year, and there are no other bars. Life memberships are $25 ; and a few public spirited men and women have given larger sums. All contributions are acknowledged by receipt and in the magazine Out West. Moneys may be sent to the president or secretary. Besides this work upon the Missions, the club has saved the historic Plaza of Eos Angeles from obliteration, and preserved several hundred of the historic street names which were being replaced with irrelevant new titles. It is now also engaged in extensive repairs to the Mis- sion chapel at Pala. Chas. F. Eummis, Los Angeles, Cal. President. Honorary Hike Members : R. Egan, Tessa L. Kelso. Life Members : Jas. B. Eankershim, J. Downey Harvey, Ed- ward E. Ayer, John E. Francis, Mrs. John F. Francis, Mrs. Alfred Solano, Margaret Collier Graham, Miss Collier, Andrew McNally, Rt. Rev. Geo. Montgomery, Miss M. F. Wills, B. F. Porter, Prof. Chas. C. Bragdon, Mrs. Jas. W. Scott, Mrs. Phoebe A. Hearst, Mrs. Annie D. Apperson, Miss Agnes Lane, Mrs M. W. Kincaid, Col. H. G. Otis, H. Jevne, J. R. Newberry, Dr. W. Jarvis Barlow, Marion Brooks Barlow, Miss Mira Hershey. Committee on Cook-book : Mrs. J. G. Mossin, Mrs. George H. Wadleigh.