LANDMARKS CLUB COOIC BOOK. 6 the “udder of a cow” can be procured by pre-arrangement with the butcher. This preparation disputes with the Swiss “Hassen pfeffer” precedence as the most delicious dish ever made from hare or jackrabbit. Remove all bones, membranes and tendons from a hare (or jackrabbit) roasted beforehand. Pick to pieces roughly, and grind (upon a metate or in a mortar) all the meat, together with the boiled udder of a cow. Mix all, when ground, with bread crumbs moistened in soup, adding salt, pepper, parsley, a bit of garlic, thyme and bay leaves, all chopped very fine. Wet up with yolks of eggs, and give the whole another turn in the mortar. Cover the bottom of a tin pan with thin slices of ham or bacon, putting the preparation on top and covering it with other slices of ham or bacon. Bake in the oven; or cook in a steamer until done, and then fry brown. Remove from pan by putting the latter in boiling water. Remove the slices of bacon and cover the dish with bread-crumbs. PICHONES BORRACHOS. (“Drunken Pigeons”) : Stew your pigeons till nearly done. Toast a number of very red tomatos, remove the skins, and put them to fry with a good slice of bread (broken up) and a handful of almonds. Fry separately a little ground parsley (and a bit of garlic if desired), and add a pint of claret, all the broth in which the pigeons were cooked, a handful of raisins, a few pieces of citron, some ripe olives, a little sugar, cinna- mon, pepper and clove. Put the pigeons into this broth and let them cook a few minutes until done. GALLORIA. (Fried Bananas) : Ripe bananas, cut lengthwise, fried in butter or olive oil. They may also be dipped first in a batter of beaten egg. In Michoacan there is a great business in dried bananas, which are also delicious when fried. POLLOS DE LA BELLA MULATA. (Chickens a la the Beautiful Mulatto) : For four small chick- ens, brown in lard half a pound of fresh pork, quarter of a pound of almonds, a piece of bread, four ripe tomatos. Grind all in a mortar or metate. Fry onions chopped fine, with a