ENTREES. 81 of minced onion, four cloves, a bit of mace, and a trifle of bay leaves, with four bruised pepper-corns; when the onion is very brown, add a pint of broth; boil until reduced one-half, and strain if the bits of onion and seasonings are objected to. Add half a can of mushrooms, cut into slices, to this gravy, with four sliced truffles; thicken with half a teaspoonful of flour, color with kitchen bouquet, add a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and a gill of port; lay in the sweet-breads and simmer a few minutes. Mrs. Nettb O’Melveny. lambs’ SWEET-BREADS WITH VILLEROY SAUCE. Select the desired quantity of sweet-breads, blanch and place them in a stew-pan, adding broth to half their height, boil till tender and the gravy is reduced. Put the sweet-breads between two plates, and leave till cold. Cut each sweet-bread in two, dip them in Villeroy sauce, and place them on a baking sheet. When the sauce has cooled on them, take them from the bak- ing sheet with the aid of a knife, roll them in bread crumbs again, and fry in boiling fat; when nicely browned all over, drain, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. MOCK TAMALES (GERMAN TAMALES). Remnants of roasts, especially veal, pork, chickens and beef —chop very fine, add onion or juice of onion, season highly with cayenne pepper, a little chile, salt, grated lemon, celery salt, marjorie, parsley, all finely prepared, two eggs beaten, all mixed thoroughly. The covering is made of German pancakes, a thin batter of flour, two eggs, salt and water, fried the full size of skillet or gridiron, make seven or eight pancakes; fill these when cool lengthwise with the prepared meat, roll until it holds together nicely. Place the filled pancakes in baking pan and baste with soup stock. If gravy is left over, add this shortly before serv- ing. One-half hour is sufficient time to bake—be careful to keep moist. Mrs Mary J. Schallfrt. IMITATION TERRAPIN. Cut cold chicken, mutton or veal fine, sprinkle with cayenne pepper and salt; mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs,