46 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK COOK. SQUABS EN CASSEROLE. Clean and truss five or six squabs, saute in bacon fat, with half an onion cut in rings; arrange in the casserole; add a bay leaf, and half cover with hot water or broth; cover and bake until nearly tender; then season with salt and pepper, and just before serving skim off the fat and add one pint of cooked peas. Miss Marianne T. Etchemendy. ROASTED TURKEY. Make a dressing as follows: Chop half onion fine, let cook slightly in frying pan. Soak sufficient bread in oyster juice until soft, salt, pepper and a pinch of sage; cook slightly in onion pan; take off fire, add one can oysters and two eggs beaten light. Stuff the turkey and bake slowly for 3 hours. Gravy is made from the drippings in pan and liver and giz- zard chopped fine. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. ROASTED TURKEY. For a turkey weighing from eight to ten pounds, allow one loaf of stale baker’s bread, one quart or one can of raw oysters, one lemon, two roots of celery and one-quarter of a pound of butter. It is taken for granted that the turkey is thoroughly picked, singed, cleaned and wiped dry before putting the stuff- ing in. Crumb the bread till very fine; season with pepper and salt. Drain the oysters, setting the liquor aside. Now take a very sharp knife and peel off the outer rind of the lemon, being careful not to have any of the bitter and tough white skin left on; cut the peel in very small bits; chop the white part of the celery very fine, adding the butter and the juice of the lemon; mix the ingredients mentioned, stirring until thoroughly mixed; then proceed to stuff body and crop. A turkey of the size spoken of requires two and a half to four hours’ baking, and it should be basted frequently; the liquor of the oysters should be put in the pan when the pan is first set in the oven, and this is to be used in basting. The gib- lets and liver should be cooked in a basin on top of the stove, then chopped very fine, and when the gravy is made add them to it. Mrs. George H. Wadleigh.