240 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. KOUMISS (SOMETIMES CALLED MILK BEER.) Into one quart of new milk put one gill of fresh buttermilk and three or four lumps of white sugar. Mix well and see that the sugar dissolves. Put in warm place to stand ten hours, when it will be thick. Pour from one vessel to another until it becomes smooth and uniform in consistency. Bottle and keep in warm place twenty-four hours; it may take thirty- six in winter. The bottles must be tightly corked and the corks tied down. Shake well five minutes before opening. It makes a very agreeable drink, which is especially recommended for persons who do not assimilate their food, and for young children may be drunk as freely as milk. Instead of butter- milk, some use a teaspoonful of yeast. It is the standard bev- erage of the Tartars, who almost live upon it in summer, and is also used largely by the Russians. The richer your milk, which should be unskimmed, the better will be your koumiss. MILK PORRIDGE. Two dozen raisins quartered, two cups milk, one tablespoon flour, one saltspoon salt. Boil the raisins in a little water twenty minutes. Let the water boil away, and add the milk. When boiling, add the flour rubbed to a thin paste with a lit- tle cold milk. Boil eight or ten minutes. Season with salt, and strain before serving. MULLED BUTTERMILK. One quart buttermilk, one scant, rounded tablespoon flour. Put the buttermilk in a bowl; place in a saucepan of cold wa- ter and put over the fire; stir slowly all the time. Mix the flour smooth with a little buttermilk or water; when the but- termilk is a little more than lukewarm, stir in the thickening. Now stir thoroughly, watching closely, and when it looks as if full of fine grains as it runs from the spoon, remove from the fire, take out of the hot water and keep stirring for five or ten minutes. In order to make this successfully, the but- termilk must be fresh, and procured where churning is done frequently, so that it shall be good and sweet. Mrs. W. F. Marshall.