139 PASTRY. right hand. Moisten to a dough with cold water, turn on slightly floured board, and knead one minute. Cover with towel and let stand five minutes. Pat and roll one-fourth inch thick, keeping paste wider than long, and corners square. If this cannot be done with rolling pin, draw into shape with fingers. Place butter on middle of lower half of paste; cover butter by folding upper half of paste over it. Press edges firmly to enclose as much air as possible. Fold right side of paste over enclosed butter, the left side under same. Turn paste half way round, cover, and let stand five minutes. Pat and roll one-fourth inch thick, having paste longer than wide, lifting often to prevent sticking, and dredg- ing board slightly with flour when necessary. Fold from ends towards center, making three layers; cover, and let stand five minutes. Repeat twice, turning paste half way round each time before rolling. After fourth rolling, fold from ends to center, and double, making four layers. Put in cold place to chill. If outside temperature is not sufficiently cold, fold paste in a towel, put in a dripping-pan, and place between dripping- pans of crushed ice. If paste is to be kept for several days, wrap in a napkin, put in tin pail and cover tightly, and put in cold place. If in ice box, do not allow pail to come in direct contact with the ice. TO BAKE PUEE PASTE. Baking of puff paste requires as much care and judgment as making. After shaping, chill thoroughly before baking. Puff paste requires a hot oven, the greatest heat coming from the bottom, that the paste may properly rise. While rising it is often necessary to decrease the heat by lifting covers or opening the check to the stove. Turn frequently that it may rise evenly. When it has risen to its full height, slip a pan under the sheet on which the paste is baking, to prevent burning on the bottom. Puff paste should be baked on a tin sheet covered with a double thickness of brown paper; or a dripping-pan may be used, lined with brown paper. 10