MEATS. 55 and then plunge them into boiling water for not more than three minutes. In that time the skin should have swelled to nearly twice its original thickness. Cut the skin into pieces suitable for serving. Have ready an agate iron kettle with tightly fitting top. Place in the kettle the pieces of skin and flesh, the tongue, two each medium-sized turnips, carrots and onions, all peeled and cut in two, one leek, if obtainable, be- ing sure to cut off the green tops, and two green peppers, from which the seeds have been removed. Add three or four each whole peppercorns, allspice berries and cloves. Do not put in any parsley, or herbs of any kind, as these turn the meat dark. Moisten a heaping tablespoonful of flour, work- ing out all the lumps, until thin enough to pour; stir into water enough to just cover the meat and vegetables. Pour into the kettle and cover tightly. An excellent way to keep in all the steam is to put two thicknesses of light brown wrap- ping paper under the cover, doubling in the edges just under the cover and placing a weight on top. Move to the back of the stove before the water boils and let simmer for three hours. The brains may or may not be used, according to taste. If they are to be used, clean them in the usual way, by removing the membrane which envelops them, and putting them in three or four changes of fresh water to remove the blood. Three- quarters of an hour before serving the calf’s head, put the brains into the kettle. This is ample time to cook them. Skin the tongue and arrange slices of it, with the meat, on a large platter and pour over the whole a sauce made as follows: Stew slowly, for an hour or more, or until they have stewed down to an even consistency, six medium-sized tomatos or one-half can of tomatos. Melt a generous tablespoonful of butter, and mix into it a tablespoonful of cornstarch. Stir into the tomatos, cook a few minutes, and strain through a colander. Return to the fire and add about one and one-half dozen white button onions, which have been boiled tender, one and one-half dozen olives, which have been freed from the seed. If the olives are “free-stones,” the seeds can be easily pressed out through the stem end. Otherwise the olive must be cut from the seed in a thick spiral, with a sharp, thin-bladed knife.