LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. begins to peel. When it is cool, rub between the hands until the skin and the kernel separate. Rinse in several waters, and with a knife pick the little black points out of each grain, and leave it soaking in water out in the air over night—the Mexi- cans believe the dews possess special virtue for blanching the corn, and a good cook prides herself on the whiteness of her tamales. The next day the corn is ground on the metate (in a mortar will do). Then for nine pounds of the prepared corn take a pint of warm water and an ounce of salt; mix and heat with the hands, adding gradually 2 lbs. of melted lard. Continue heating until when you place a little ball of the dough on water it will float. Have some dried corn husks ready (which have been well washed), and on each husk place a generous spoonful of the dough; add some guiso (stuffing), tie up and steam for about four hours. Guiso.—Toast some red peppers, taking care that they do not burn ; then soak them in tepid water until they are soft. Remove the seeds and veins; grind in a mortar with a piece of bread fried in lard a little bit of chocolate, some cinnamon, all moistened with a little stock, in which a small bit of pork has been boiled. Put all these, with a little lard, into a saucepan, and when it bubbles, add the pork minced fine. Let it boil up, and it is ready for the dough. SwELT Tamales.—Are made in precisely the same way, only that the salt is omitted and i lb. of white sugar added, and rai- sins, cut up almonds and anise seed are put in the dough ac- cording to taste. Of course, the above quantity makes a large number of ta- males. They are difficult to make well, but are extremely del- icate and delicious. PATITAS CON MAN I (PERU). (Trotters with Peanuts) : Sheep’s feet or pig’s feet thor- oughly boiled; parboiled potatos, quartered, are to be put in a smother made with plenty of roasted peanuts, part whole, pai t ground up, and seasoned with allspice. Fry all together in this batter for ten minutes, stirring constantly. If very thick, add a little broth.