ENTREES. 83 TIMBALE oe hare. Trim off all the skin of some cold cooked hare, chop the flesh and place it in a mortar, pound it till smooth; mix with it one- third its quantity of grated bread crumbs, a little finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with mixture, add a few drops clear gravy, bring all to a proper consistency, butter small tim- bale molds, fill with mixture, place them in a stew-pan with boiling water to three-fourths their height, steam half an hour. Warm a little gravy, mix a little claret; when ready turn out on a dish ; pour the gravy around. TIMBALE OE salmon. Remove the bone and skin from one can of salmon, add grad- ually, beating all the time, four tablespoonfuls of thick cream and the unbeaten whites of two eggs. Salt and pepper to taste. Fill small cups or egg cups with the mixture, stand in a dish of hot water and bake twenty minutes. When done turn out of cups on plates and pour over them the following sauce. Butter Sauce: Two tablespoons of flour, one-half cup butter, one pint boiling water. Stir butter and flour, gradually add boiling water, stirring constantly until it thickens, flavor with lime juice. Serve at once. Mrs. E. A. Padgham. TRIPE WITH ONION SAUCE. Have the tripe very fresh, wash it thoroughly, remove all fat and cut in strips about an inch wide and three or four inches long. Cook three-quarters or one hotir, peel the onions, and put in water in which a little salt has been added to keep them white, let them remain for a quarter of an hour. Put them into a stew-pan, cover them with water and cook until tender. Should the onions be very strong, change the water several times, drain thoroughly, chop, and put through a sieve or po- tato i icer. Rub one teaspoonful of flour, two ounces of butter smoothly together in a half-pint of milk over a fire, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; let it boil up quickly for a minute or two, add tripe. Mrs. Henry Worthington.