landmarks club cook book. a very hot oven to sear it over in order to retain the juices. Keep the oven closed for about ten minutes, then open, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, and baste with the gravy. Turn the meat when necessary and baste often. Bake a six-pound roast one hour if liked rare, and an hour and a quarter if liked well done. Serve with gravy made from the drippings of the meat, or with Yorkshire pudding. . A. C. B. “ How We Cook in Los Ang-eles.” ENGLISH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. One pint of milk, four tablespoons of flout mixed in part of the milk to a smooth batter; then add the remainder, with a little salt and two well beaten eggs; bake in a well-buttered pan thirty minutes, or in the pan with the roast, placing the roast on a drip stand. Mrs. J. S. Slauson. . BEEF A LA MODE. Round of beef, eight pounds; have larded at butcher’s, bind with piece of muslin to keep in place. Have ready table- spoonful cloves, allspice and cinnamon, salt and pepper. Take seven carots, five turnips, boil slightly, cut in strips, drop in spices and put in places where larded a few pieces of garlic. Put in covered baking pan, sprinkle with flour, half pint of water in the pan; bake slowly three hours. Chop carrots and bits of pork fine, put on top, add in pan whole carrots, onions and turnips, and cook one hour more. Last half hour baste with sherry. Gravy: One turnip, one carrot, half pint water; let boil and thicken slightly; add half pint sherry just before serving. Put meat on platter, the bits of fat and carrots browned, on top, the whole vegetables on top. Mrs. Jerry Conroy. BCEUF A LA MODE. With strips of cloth bind six or eight pounds of beef from the round into circular shape. Make incisions with a sharp knife, and into these press strips of salt pork half an inch thick; make other incisions and press into these one small clove of garlic cut into pieces. Heat drippings, and in this brown the outside of the meat, together with one small onion and a carrot sliced ; then half cover with boiling water and