61 MEATS. ing opening in top, brush over with yolk of egg (uncooked), bake in well-heated oven for one to one and one-half hours or longer should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of oven, pour in at opening on top through a funnel nearly half a pint of strong gravy. * This pie may be enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters or sweetbreads; for those who like it a little sherry may be added to the gravy. Kidneys and round steak also make a good pie; care must be taken to remove all fat and string from the kidneys. Cut in slices, cook in boiling water for five minutes, pour off wa- ter, recover with boiling water and cook five minutes longer. Cut steak as directed for cutlets, and arrange in pie dish as for veal and ham pie. A little onion juice is a great improve- ment to kidneys. Mrs. Henry Worthington. VEAL OLIVE PIE. Two pounds veal, without bone, rind of quarter lemon, quarter pound lean ham, one tablespoon parsley, one cup bread crumbs, two teaspoons salt, one teaspoon butter, quarter tea- spoon white pepper, two eggs, one salt spoon paprika, quarter cup cold water, some short paste. Cut up veal in very thin slices and then into oblong slices, three inches by one and one- half. Chop up the ham very fine, also the parsley; mix with them the bread crumbs, the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, and half the pepper, salt and paprika. Spread this over the pieces of veal and roll them up. Fill up a deep pie dish with the rolls; let it be higher in the middle than the sides. Sprinkle the rest of the seasoning over and put in the quarter cup of water. Roll out a piece of rich, short crust, one inch larger every way than the top of your pie dish; cut off an inch breadth all round, wet the edge of your dish and press on the paste, joining it neatly; wet this edge and put on the cover. Trim it round with a sharp knife. Scallop the edges of your pastry and make a hole to let out steam in the top. Brush over with well-beaten egg, ornament with pastry cut into leaves, etc. Bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, then moderate heat and bake altogether about one and one-quarter hours. Fill up pie with boiling water or stock before serving. Miss Kate E. Whitaker.