LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Ill America and were never heard of in the Old World till the Spanish acquired them in the New—our corn, sago, succo- tash, chocolate, cocoa, tapioca, peanuts, Lima beans and a great many other foodstuffs. And some of these, though in every-day use among us, are never tasted in their per- fection except in Spanish America. For perfect chocolate, go to Mexico; while a Guatemala Indian would be ashamed to offer anj'-one what a majority of us would call a cup of coffee. Palatable anywhere, this general dietary plan is almost indispensable in the countries where it has grown up. It admits of infinite variation ; but its essential features are not to be disregarded. “Americans,” for instance, who set- tle in California and continue to eat precisely as they used to in Maine or New Jersey or Indiana, need not wonder if in the long run their digestions fare as would the digestion of an Eskimo removing to Ecuador and maintaining his diet of blubber. In a word, diet must be adapted to cli- mate, Natural man always does so adapt it—by the slow process of the survival of the least foolish—and has his reward. He has little need of dentists or appetizer, and biliousness, dyspepsia and gout are strangers to him. It is well for civilized people to be as wise. For such as dwell in the arid half of the United States, the Spanish-American menu can give many profitable hints. Without going into an exhaustive essa3r on the details of this food-scheme, it will be enough to note a few of its vital characteristics. It is on the whole simpler than our average United States menu, with less pastr}^, less meat, and less flummididdle bread. Fruits, vegetables and soups are rather more predominant in it. For anti-bilious reasons it is much more highly seasoned than our own cookery. One of its characteristics is a liberal use of the chile, or native American red pepper, both green and ripe. This is not like the vicious cayenne or the venomous tabasco, but sweeter, more agreeable and more healthful than either. Most Americans do not at first flush like dishes in which it predominates ; but it is an easily acquired taste—and once learned, there is nothing of which one becomes fonder