109 vegetables. rice with tomatos. Boil one cupful of rice soft in hot water; shake it now and then, but do not stir it. Drain and add a little milk in which a beaten egg has been mixed; one teaspoonful of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer for five minutes, and if the rice has not absorbed all the milk, drain it again. Put the rice round a dish, smooth it into a wall, wash it over with the yolk of a beaten-up egg, and put it into the oven till firm. Take half a bottle of tomato conserve (or the strained juice and the pulp of seven or eight tomatos), season with pepper, a little salt, sugar, and half a chopped onion; stew for twenty minutes, then stir in one tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls of fine bread crumbs. Stew three or four minutes to thicken, then pour the tomato into the dish in the middle of the rice, and serve. Mrs. H. W. O’Melveny. SAVORY RICE. One-half pound rice, one onion, three tablespoons grated cheese, three tablespoons tomato sauce, one teaspoon chopped parsley, herbs, cayenne and salt, one ounce butter. Boil the rice in water with small onion chopped fine; when tender and nearly dry stir in other ingredients. It should be stiff enough to make a mound in the dish. Serve hot. (Thyme and marjoram are the herbs used.) k Mrs. Walter Allen. RICE, SOUTHERN. In taking the quantity, remember that in cooking, rice swells to about three times its original size. Wash the rice with the hands, quickly, in two or three waters to remove the powdered starch, as that will make the rice sticky. A saucepan with about three quarts of salted water, boiling hard, should be on the hottest part of the stove. Put in it two cups of the rice. It should begin to boil again in a couple of minutes'; after it has boiled from seven to ten minutes, test it by rubbing a grain between the fingers, and if it is soft on the out- side, with a tiny hard core in the middle, pour off every drop of water, leaving it as dry as possible. Cover tightly; place on the back of the stove and let it steam for one-half hour; or it