43 poultry and game cold water; stir into the potatos a spoonful of butter, a little salt and black pepper, a tablespoonful of finely-rubbed sage leaves; drain off the onions and mix with the potato, sage, etc. When well mixed, stuff the goose with the mixture. Have ready a coarse needle and thread, and sew up the slit made for cleaning and introducing the stuffing. A full-grown goose requires one and three-quarters hours. Roast it as a turkey, dredging and basting. The gravy is prepared as for poultry, with the liver and gizzard. Apple sauce is indispensable for roast goose. Mrs. George H. Wadleigii. larded fillets of i-iare. Skin and clean a hare, cut off the fillets; lard and put them in a basin, season with ground mixed spice, pour over enough oil to moisten; let them soak for one hour. In the meantime pour some stock in a stew-pan and reduce nearly to glaze, then add slice of bacon and the larded fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper and cook for twelve minutes, by which time the fillets should be well cooked and brown. Great care should be taken not to let the fillets burn. Put them on a dish, add a little rich stock, stir well, pour it over and serve. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. .tugged hare (English). Wash the hare, cut in pieces, dredge with flour and fry in butter. Have ready one and one-half pints of good stock thickened with a little flour; add the pieces of fried hare, an onion stuck with six cloves, a lemon (peeled and cut in half), and a good seasoning of pepper, salt and cayenne. Cover well and let stew gently for two hours. When nearly done, pour in one-half pint of port wine, and add a few forcemeat balls, fried or baked in the oven a few minutes before they are put in the gravy. Serve with red currant jelly. f. s. c. ROAST BELGIAN HARE. Clean the hare thoroughly and soak in salted water for a few hours. Parboil the liver and heart and add a slice of raw fat salt pork, and chop all together very fine; mix with this enough seasoned bread crumbs to make a good stuffing for