42 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. that the ducks may have. Fill them with the following dress- ing: Put the bacon in the frying pan with the chopped onion and fry until the onion becomes a light brown, then add the bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley and olives. Heat this through, then stir in the egg. Fill the ducks and sew them up. Roast them in a hot oven for about twenty- five or thirty minutes, basting often, otherwise they will be dry and tasteless. Large Canvas-back and Mallards will re- quire a little longer to cook. Serve with a sauce made as fol- lows : One tablespoon butter, one-half tablespoon flour, one cup of stock, one wineglass of claret, one cup of water, ten or twelve black olives cut fine, one-half clove or garlic. Small bunch of parsley, a little thyme and bay leaf. Cook the olives in b.oiling water for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the pits and cut the meat in small pieces. Rub butter and flour together in frying pan. When melted, add stock, water and wine. Tie the garlic and herbs together. Put these in the sauce and cook slowly for half an hour or more. Re- move the garlic and herbs, add the olives, and cook a little longer. Adding a little of the drippings from the duck makes the sauce richer. If olives have been used in the dressing, they may be omitted in the sauce, and vice versa. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. FRIED TEAL. Split the ducks down their back, spread open and rub with onion, or garlic. Fry in butter or with bacon. Make a sauce with the grease the ducks have been fried in, and add a little flour and water or stock. Mrs. Eugene O. McLaughlin. ROAST GOOSE. The goose is best in the autumn and early part of winter—• never good in spring. What is called a green goose is four months old. It is insipid after that, though tender. Pick well and singe the goose, then clean carefully. Put the liver and gizzard on to cook as a turkey’s. When the goose is washed, and ready for stuffing, have boiled three white potatos, skin and mash them; chop three onions very fine, throw them into