52 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. BEEF SAUTE. Heat some thick slices of tender boiled beef in melted but- ter. Keep the dish covered. When very hot, pour over a tablespoonful each of mushroom catsup and Worcestershire sauce. Serve hot on potatos. Mrs. Stephen M. White. GATEAU OF BEEF. One pound of cold roast beef, three cups of stale bread, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two eggs, two tablespoonful of salt, quarter teaspoonful of pepper, half cup of stock or milk, one onion (grated) ; chop up meat quite fine, soak bread in a little cold water, squeeze out as dry as possible and add to the chopped meat; then add parsley and the seasoning. Beat up the eggs and mix them with the stock or milk. Grease some cups or a bowl, almost two-thirds full; cover with greased paper and steam in one mold one and one-half hours; if in cups, three-quarters of an hour. Set cups in boiling water half way up. Take out when done. Serve with tomato sauce. Kate E. Whitaker. beefsteak PIE. Two pounds of round steak (very thin), six sheeps’ kid- neys, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of salt, half teaspoonful of pepper, quarter cup of water; cut up meat in oblong pieces, kidney in small pieces. Wash kidneys, mix flour, pepper and salt together, dip pieces of beef into it, roll up a piece of kidney in each piece of beef; fill up your dish; put in quarter cup of water, cover with paste (first putting a narrow strip round edge of dish) ; bake about one and one-half hours. Stew the bones, etc., and when the pie is done, pour the hot Stock into the pie through the hole in center. South Kensington School of Cookery. BEEFSTEAK AND ONIONS—A ^SMOTHERED VENUS.” Cut one dozen white onions into slices; fry a quarter pound salt pork or bacon until all the fat is fried out. Remove the cracklings, and into the hot fat put the onions, fiy and stii for twenty minutes over a brisk fire, then add a teaspoonful of salt, pepper to taste, and a cup of boiling water. Place over a moderate fire to simmer half an hour, when the water should