37 FISH. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoon of pepper, two scant table- spoonfuls of butter, beaten yolks of two eggs and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. It is better to add a little of the hot mixture to the eggs before combining the whole, to blend perfectly. Mrs. ADOLF Petsch. FRICASSEE OF SHRIMPS. Put a large spoonful of lard or butter in a saucepan, add a heaping spoonful of sifted flour; stir until a golden brown color, then add a little finely chopped onion, stirring constantly until the onion is thoroughly wilted. Put in a quart of shelled raw shrimps; continue to stir until the shrimps become of a pale pink color; then add three cloves, salt, red and black pep- per to taste; also a little Worcestershire sauce, and half a can of stewed tomatos which have been passed through a sieve. Let all this boil over a slow fire until ready to serve. Lastly, add a small glass of sherry. Crabs can be prepared the same way. Mrs. L. A. Grant. fillet OF SOLE, in cases. Put one teacupful of finely minced mushrooms into a frying pan with two tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots and one table- spoonful of chopped parsley; add a lump of butter and season with pepper and salt. Toss the above ingredients over the fire until cooked, then put them by until cold. Fillet the soles, mask one side of them with the above mixture, roll them up, secure them with a piece of thread, place them between two buttered plates and bake them. Prepare some white sauce. Put each fillet into a small paper case, place a small mushroom on the top of each, fill up the cases with the hot sauce, and serve them at once. Mrs. M. J. Connell. frtEd frogs' legs. Marinade them bv laying them in two tablespoons oil, two tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice, a little salt and pepper; let them lie three hours, then plunge them in fritter batter; fry in hot lard five minutes. Fritter Batter: Quarter pound of flour, yolk of one egg, one teaspoon of lemon juice, thirty drops of oil; beat well to- gether, then add just enough wine to make a batter. When ready to use, beat up the white of an egg, and add to mixture.