CANDIES. 229 ten or twelve hours) they may be dipped in chocolate which has been melted; the vessel containing the melted chocolate being kept in a pan of hot water to prevent hardening. Throw the drops into the melted chocolate, one at a time and imme- diately with a bent wire or a table fork, and place them care- fully on a buttered paper to dry. Fruit drops of all kinds may be made in the same way, except that the fondant must be fla- vored with the desired fruit flavor, and instead of a chocolate coating, use fondant colored to represent the fruit—as red for strawberry, yellow for lemon or peach, etc. Melt the fondant to be used for coating, add the coloring and keep warm; but if it should become too stiff, add carefully a few drops of hot water. Mrs. W. T. Carter in “How We Cook in Los Angeles.” CREAM WALNUTS. Take from the fondant pieces the size wanted and roll them into little balls, then press upon them the half of a walnut ker- nel until flattened; set on edge to dry. Cream dates, cream figs, and cream almonds, are all made in the same way. CHOCOLATE CANDY. One cup sugar, quarter cup molasses, quarter cup butter, quarter cup rich milk. Boil twelve minutes, hard, without stirring. After boiling, stir in one cake of chocolate, and add nuts, also one teaspoonful of vanilla. After adding chocolate, nuts and vanilla, stir briskly and cook about four minutes. Then turn out on a buttered plate and mark off in squares be- fore entirely cool. Instead of cake chocolate, half cup of ground chocolate, also walnuts, may be used. Charlotte Workman. CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. Quarter pound Baker’s chocolate, quarter pound butter, one cup cream, one pound sugar, one cup molasses, one table- spoon vanilla, quarter teaspoon baking soda, eighth teaspoon cream tartar. Cut the chocolate and mix all the other insrre- dients together and boil rapidly for about half an hour. Add soda mixed with cream tartar. When done boiling, pour into buttered tins. When partly cool, turn out and cut into squares. Evelyn R. I,utz.