MEATS. 53 have entirely evaporated and the onions be a nice even brown. Have ready a boiled steak, place it in the pan with the onions, cover the top with some of them and place in the oven for five minutes, then place the steak in a hot dish and heap the onions over and around it and serve. Carrie T. Waddilove. SOUR POT ROAST (GERMAN). A three or four pound pot roast larded, put in an earthen vessel and cover with vinegar and water to taste (one cup strong vinegar and two of water is good). Slice in an onion, two or three bay leaves, two or three cloves and some whole peppers. Soak three days, turning once or twice a day. Put in kettle two tablespoons drippings and brown the beef well all over, and then pour in the vinegar, water, etc., and let boil two and one-half hours. Take out meat, thicken gravy and serve. Mrs. Koepfli. PEEP TONGUE, terrapin styee. Put a salted beef tongue into a pan of cold water, bring to a boil at once, then let simmer until tender—usually three hours. Remove it, drain, cut in halves lengthwise, trim off all fat and bristle, stick a few cloves in, put pieces into another saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add onion cut in slices, a little mace and browned flour ; boil for a few min- utes, and put in three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs; re- move the pan from the fire, pour in one wineglassful of sherry, turn the whole out on a dish and serve very hot, with a gar- nish of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. TAGEIARINI, ITALIAN STYLE. Take flour, put it on a good-sized kitchen table, make a nest of it. Into this flour nest break four eggs, add a pinch of salt and half a cup of luke-warm water and flour enough to make a stiff dough, work dough for fully twenty minutes, roll out very thin, same as rolling out pie crust, dredge with flour now and then to keep from sticking. Ret it remain on table to dry for about an hour, then roll it up in a tight scroll like a sheet of music. With a good sharp knife begin at the end and slice it into strips as thin as possible. While