208 landmarks club cook book. TOMATO SOY. Two gallons sliced green tomatos, twelve good sized onions sliced, two quarts vinegar, one quart sugar, two tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, two small spoonfuls black pepper, one tablespoonful allspice, one tablespoonful cloves. Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring to pre- vent burning. Put away in glass jars. Mrs. L. A. Craig, Los Ang-eles. TOMATO SOY. Take a bushel of ripe tomatos, cut them in slices without skinning. Sprinkle the bottom of a large tub with salt, strew in the tomatos, and over each layer of about two inches thick sprinkle half a pint of salt and three onions sliced, without tak- ing off the skins. When the bushel of tomatos is thus prepared, let them remain for three days, then put them into a large iron pot, in which they must boil from early in the morning till night, constantly stirring to prevent their sticking. The next morning pass the mixture through a sieve, pressing it to ob- tain all the liquor you can, and add to it one ounce of cloves, quarter of a pound of allspice, quarter of a pound of whole black pepper and a small wineglass of cayenne. Let it boil slowly and constantly during the whole day. In the evening put into a suitable vessel to cool, and the day after bottle and cork it well. Place it in a cool situation during the warm weather. The soy will keep for years, provided it has been boiled slowly and sufficiently in the preparation. Should it ferment, it must be boiled the second time. Miss Delia Clemons. PICKLED WALNUTS. Gather the walnuts when the sun is on them and before the shell is hard, which may be known by running a needle into them. Put them into strong salt and water for nine days. Stir them twice a day, and change the water every three days. Then place them on a hair sieve and let them remain in the air until they turn black, which will be in about twelve hours. Pierce each nut through in several places with a needle and put into glass jars. Boil the vinegar with spices for ter^ minutes. Cover the nuts and divide the spices equally. When quite cold