56 LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Diain the liquor from a can of French mushrooms and add pepper, and lastly add*three or four tablespoonfuls of cooking sherry, or any white wine preferred. Pour over the meat in the platter and garnish with parsley arid watercress. This sauce should be rather thick and very smooth. It may be made before it is needed and warmed over just before serv- ing. I his receipt makes a dish for twelve people, and can easily be halved, as the dealers will sell the half of a calf’s head. Mrs. F. W. Wood. call’s IiLAD. Calf’s head, water, little salt, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, teaspoonful of lemon juice. After the head has been thoroughly cleaned, lay it in cold water for half an hour to bleach; remove the brains first, and lay them to soak in warm water for an hour. Put the head in a stew-pan large enough to hold it with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils add a little salt; take off every particle of scum as it rises, and boil until tender, about one and a half to two hours, according to size. Boil brains, chop them with melted but- ter, parsley, pepper and salt and lemon juice in above propor- tions ; take up the head, skin the tongue, and put it on a small dish with the brains around it, have ready some minced pars- ley and melted butter, smother the head with it or make a white sauce with a tablespoonful of flour, two ounces of but- ter, half a pint of milk and salt to taste, mix butter and flour smoothly together over the fire, pour in the milk, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon ; let it boil up quickly for a minute or two, then pour it over the calf’s head with some minced parsley. Mrs. Henry Worthington. LSCABECHI. Soak a dried smoked tongue over night; boil until tender, and skin; when cold, slice not too thin. Slice and soak in boil- ing water two large onions for several hours. Take a flat- bottomed dish, put a layer of tongue, then a layer of the onion, then a layer of black olives, then sprinkle over a little thyme, then another layer of tongue, onion, olives, until all the