54 LANDMAKKS CLUB COOK BOOK. you aie cutting-, take care to remove and spread now and then what you have cut, not forgetting to sprinkle flour so as to prevent them from sticking. You now have the tagliarini or noodles, as some prefer to call them; the next thing to make is the gravy or sauce. Take a good roast pot, put a little but- ter and good olive oil or lard (the former is preferred), let it get good and hot, put into pot pieces of roast beef, let it brown well, then add half a cup of white wine; let it cook a while, then add a well chopped onion, a slice of garlic, half a cup of chopped dried mushrooms. Care must be taken that the mushrooms are first soaked in hot water for about fifteen minutes and well washed. Add a couple of tomatos well chopped, some salt and pepper and let it cook slowly for a couple of hours at least; keep adding to sauce a little broth now and then, either the chicken or beef. Your sauce is now made and you are ready for the cooking of the noodles. Take a good-sized soup pot, fill one-half full with boiling water, add a pinch of salt ; when boiling, drop your noodles, little at a time, and stir carefully; let them boil say five minutes; do not let them boil any longer, as they will go to pieces. Take out, strain and put into a good-sized flat dish; then add some of the gravy and some grated Parmesan cheese; add another layer of noodles and repeat with layer of gravy and cheese. Louise Guasti. calf's HEAD. One shaved calf’s head, two turnips, two carrots, two onions, two green peppers, one leek, if obtainable, a few uthole allspice berries, pepper-corns and cloves. For the Sauce—Half dozen tomatos, or half can of to- matos, one heaping tablespoon of butter, one tablespoon of cornstarch, one and one-half dozen white button onions, one and one-half dozen olives, one can French mushrooms, three or four tablespoons cooking sherry, or any white wine. Parsley or water cress for garnish. Procure what is termed a “shaved calf’s head.” Have the butcher saw the head in two lengthwise. With a sharp, pointed knife remove the skin and flesh from the bone. Put the brains and tongue in fresh water to draw out the blood. Soak the skin and flesh in fresh water for an hour or more