SPANISH-AMERICAN COOKERY. CHILES RELLENOS CON QUESO (MEXICO). (Green Chiles stuffed with cheese) : Take big green chiles and put in hot oven until blistered. Remove from oven and wrap in a cloth, to keep the steam in to make them peel easier. Peel while still hot. Take out seeds and veins—and put inside each chile a long slice of American cheese. Dip into a light batter of eggs and flour with a little baking powder, and fry in hot fat, like doughnuts. Serve hot. Another kind of chiles rellenos is stuffed with minced meat (raisins added, if desired), and fried with a very little butter till brown. CHILES RELLENOS DE PICADILLO (MEXICO). . (Stuffed Green Peppers) : Choose large green peppers with a thick skin. Toast them for a few minutes (the Mexicans put them right on the coals, but they toast nicely on the stove or on a hot pan). Then remove the thin outer skin, the seeds and the veins, which are very hot (or, as the Mexicans sav, “muy bravo”). Let them soak in salt and water for an hour; this will remove all unpleasant fieriness. Stuff and fry either plain or rolled in egg and bread crumbs; and before removing them from the fire pour over them some tomato sauce. To make the stuffing, chop up some cold meat fine, mix with it an onion, a clove, salt, all chopped fine, and cook; adding, if you wish, a sprinkle of vinegar. To make the sauce, toast the tomatos in the same manner as the peppers, mash them with a little salt, strain and cook with a little butter. MEXICAN STUFFING FOR TURKEY. Soak a couple of rolls or a piece of bread, finely crumbled, in a quart of milk. When sufficiently soaked, add three eggs (without beating), 2 oz. butter, a little salt and dust of nutmeg, 4 oz. almonds blanched and cut into small pieces. After beat- ing this mixture well, put it to bake in the oven; and when it is cooked (you can tell this by testing it with a straw as you would a cake) stuff the turkey. FRIJOLES* (MEXICO AND CALIFORNIA). The Frijol, “Mexican brown bean” or “pink bean,” is about twice as large as our Navy bean, and much richer and more ■"Pronounced free-ho-less.