60 landmarks club cook book. and salt to taste. A hock glass of sherry wine (as you re- move from the stove) and the yolks of as many hard-boiled eggs as you like, minced fine. Pour into a large earthen ves- sel, let stand until the next day. Then one hour before serv- ing'- put over the fire, add a little more cream and sherry to taste. Send to the table very hot, and serve with “bits” of dry toast. Mrs. W. A. Elderkin. VEAL BIRDS. Slice of veal from the loin, cut very thin. Remove bones, skin and fat and pound till one-fourth of an inch thick. Trim into pieces two and a half by four inches. Chop the trim- mings fine with one square inch of fat salt pork (not smoked) for each bird; add half as much fine cracker crumbs as you have meat; season highly with salt, pepper, lemon, cayenne and onion ; moisten one egg and a little hot water as for veal loaf. Spread the mixture on each slice nearly to the edge; roll up tightly, and tie or fasten with skewers. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour. Fry them slowly in hot butter till a golden brown, but not dark or burned. Then half cover with cream and simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Remove the strings and serve on toast; pour the cream over them; gar- nish with points of toast and lemon. This is easily cooked in a chafing dish, or is especially nice as a meat course for luncheon. * Mrs. Mathew T. Allen. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Two pounds veal cutlets, half pound of boiled ham, two tablespoonfuls of minced or dried herbs, two blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, half pint of water, nearly half pint of good, strong gravy. Pie crust. Cut the veal into nice square pieces, put a layer into bot- tom of pie dish, sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning and the yolks of eggs cut in slices; cut ham very thin and put layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until dish is full, so arranging that ham comes on top. Lay paste on edge of dish, pour in water, cover with crust, leav-