59 MKATS. COUNTRY SAUSAGES. Prepare a sausage forcemeat and divide it into small por- tions, flour the hands and roll it into balls. Put some butter in a frying pan, and when it is hot, fry the balls, a few at a time, adding more butter when required. Turn them constantly, and when equally browned drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and serve. Mrs. M. J. Connell. BOILED TONGUE WITH chestnut DRESSING. Place a pickled tongue in a bowl of water to soak, then put in a saucepan with water to cover and boil two hours; take it out, remove the skin; cover the bottom of a saucepan with a carrot, small turnip, one and one-half onion and thyme or marjoram to taste; place the tongue on top and pour in enough broth and white wine to moisten to half its height; cover with paper, place on a slow fire, cook until the tongue is tender, turn- ing occasionally to glaze both sides ; have ready a puree of chest- nuts, moderately thick, spread it on a dish and place the tongue on it; add a little more broth to the liquor in the saucepan, boil well, skim and strain in another saucepan, reduce it to half glaze, pour over the tongue and serve. The chestnuts must be boiled after being peeled and blanched, put through ricer with seasoning of salt, pepper, little butter, some of the liquor of the tongue. Mrs. J. G. Mossin. MOCK TERRAPIN. Select a calf’s head with care—not too young. Have thor- oughly cleaned by butcher. Then have the cook again wash and wipe dry with a coarse cloth. Place in an iron pot and in cold water with a very little salt. Boil gently until the meat is tender enough to pierce easily with a fork. It must be very well done. Remove them from the fire, place the pot where it is cool, and let the calf’s head remain in the liquor until the next morning. Take out then and boil down the liquor to one-half pint. Then cut the meat up carefully, with a knife, in small pieces. Place again over the fire, add two or three tablespoons of the liquor, a half cup of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, pepper 5