LANDMARKS CLUB COOK BOOK. Mrs. J. G. Mossjn. the hare, and after stuffing sew or skewer it up. Rub with butter and sprinkle with seasoned flour. Baste often and cook in a hot oven for one hour. Serve with currant jelly. Mrs. C. E. Thom, Santa Monica. forcemeat for i-iare. 1 wo ounces of ham or lean bacon, one-fourth pound of suet, rind of half a lemon, one teaspoonful of minced parsley, one tablespoonful minced sweet herbs, salt, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, six ounces of bread crumbs, two eggs ; shred the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lemon peel and herbs, add season- ing and blend all thoroughly together with the bread crumbs be- fore wetting. Work in the eggs (well beaten) with the other in- gredients. Make into balls. Fry in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake in the oven. In forcemeat for hare the liver is sometimes used. Boil for five minutes, mince very fine and add to the other ingredients. ROASTED PARTRIDGES. Pluck the partridges, draw and truss them, and fasten some thin slices of fat bacon around them, and roast for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. Five minutes before dishing take the bacon off, sprinkle a little salt over the birds, and brown them. Put the partridges on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. Mrs. M. J. Connell. PIGEONS. From six pigeons take the hearts and livers, put in a cup; use enough lean fresh pork and calves’ liver to make a cup of the meat; put through the grinder. Add a slice of bread cut in dice and browned in butter, about a teaspoon of grated onion, one-fourth cup of currants, one sour apple grated, two eggs, half teaspoon of salt, quarter teaspoon of pepper, quar- ter teaspoon o£ paprika, quarter teaspoon kitchen bouquet, same of minced parsley. After dressing them, tie down wings and legs, put two tablespoons of butter in a frying pan, when hot lay the pigeon in to brown, then add half cup of soup stock; put them on back of range to simmer three-quarters of an hour. Melt half cup jelly to add to the gravy, with a little flour.