257 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. again with the potatoes, butter, meat, &c., until the jar is nearly full, when finish with a last layer of potato slices, over which pour four fluid ounces of sour cream mixed with a fluid ounce of beef tea or mutton broth. Close the jar tight, and place it in the boiling water in the stew-pan. Keep boiling about an hour and a half. Serve hot. This is a rich and very tasty dish. (c.) Paprikan—A Magyar Dish. Cut three or four pounds of fillet of veal in dice of about half to three-quarters of an ounce weight. Wash the pieces and squeeze the water out between the palms of your hands ; chop eight ounces of shalots and four ounces of mushrooms fine, and put them in a suitable earthen or tinned-iron pot with tight-fitting lid. Put in half a pound of butter or lard (or a few ounces more if required), with half an ounce of salt and five grains of cayenne. Then put in the meat, and let it stew over a gentle fire some sixty to seventy minutes. Now open the pot and stir in two ounces of flour blended with four fluid ounces of sour cream and a pint of beef tea made of meat extract. Serve hot with mashed or fried potatoes or chips, or with Pommes panes. The addition of a chicken, or two or three pigeons, or both, greatly improves this succulent dish. To prepare Pommes pants choose middle-sized potatoes, all as nearly as possible the same size, wash them, and boil them in their skins, only just sufficiently to make them peel easily. Cut the peeled potatoes into thickish slices, roll these first in yolk of egg, then in pounded plain biscuit, and fry them to a light yellowish-brown in beef dripping mixed with one-fourth of fresh butter, in an open enamelled frying pan. Serve hot with the paprikan. (d.) Gulacz—Hungarian National Dish. Take three pounds of fillet of beef, three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon, six ounces of shalots, and two of mushrooms. Cut the fillet into pieces about an inch and a half to two inches long by three-quarters of an inch thick. Cut the bacon and the shalots and mushrooms into small dice, and fry these together to a bright yellow in an S