ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 237 Page 46.—Salicylic Acid.—(between lines 8 and 7 from the bottom.) A correspondent calls my attention to some severe strictures passed quite recently upon this great preservative agent by certain French chemists, who would assign the most poisonous properties to this most innocuous substance simply, it would appear, because it has been largely used of late in the preservation of German beer imported into France by Germans, which is naturally a deadly offence in the eyes of all patriotic French scientists. I have used salicylic acid for several years now, and I have found no offence in it—may be simply beause I have no prejudice against it, national or other. Of course, I am open to conviction by actual proof. Page 47.—Foreign Sausages. Gotha, Brunswick, and Gottingen sausages well made are excellent food. In the dry state they contain three times the nutriment of their weight of fresh meat. In Germany, where they are largely consumed, they are considered economical food, as plenty of bread is eaten along with them as a rule. They should always be made exclusively of perfectly sound pork, chopped fine, and placed in properly prepared suitable pieces of intestine. It is very strange that, with our excellent English and Irish pork, we should be unable apparently to make them here in England up to the mark—for no one, however slightly competent to judge, would dream to put what is generally known in England as “ German Sausage ” in the remotest comparison with the genuine article ; so the latter has to be imported. Now, as there happen to be even in honest Germany a few—or rather not a few—sausage-makers who 'will use coarse, and not unfrequently diseased, meat, thereby cultivating chances of trichinosis and other fearful ailments, a word of warning and advice may not be deemed out of place here. Never deal with any but well-reputed importers of foreign provisions generally, and, more particularly, eschew cheap-jack shops ; they are really the dearest market to buy in. I have in the foreign provision line dealt for many years now with