267 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. where we took up our temporary quarters we found the wine prices positively deterrent—six shillings a bottle of Nier- steiner, for instance, of rather inferior quality, and ten or twelve shillings a bottle of very second-rate Sparklings. Some of the lists had no Port or Sherry under eight shillings a bottle, and Bucellas six shillings ! which, with sound Catalan at eighteen to twenty shillings, and Stallard’s Iberian or Spanish Claret at fifteen to sixteen shillings the dozen, looked perfectly absurd. A few brief words of advice to the readers of this little volume. If you can possibly manage, always get your beer in the barrel or cask direct from some well reputed brewery or wholesale importer that will give you the double guarantee of goodness and cheapness. Cobb, of Margate, for instance, supplies a pure, sound, pale ale at a shilling per gallon in the cask. Lager beer you may procure at moderate prices from the Tivoli Agency in the Adelphi,* or from the Totten- ham Anglo-Austrian Brewery, &c. For genuine bottled beers at the lowest reasonable prices no agency can rank higher in the trade than that of the Forsters. Such spirits as I require I get from Stallard’s or Hedges and Butler’s, where they sell them pure and cheap. I have not much occasion to gather personal experience in high class French and German wines, but my friends who have dealt on my recommendation with Hiirter, of the Strand, and Mayer, of Frankfort-on-the-Main, have always expressed to me their entire satisfaction with the purveyors and the supplies. There is nothing whatever invidious meant by singling out these few firms. I am perfectly aware that there are thousands of other English and foreign houses of deservedly equally high repute, but here I can only name * The famous Tivoli Kaiserbier is always on tap at the Adelphi Kestaurant, in the Strand, which glories in one of the grandest dining halls in London, pictorially decorated by Professor Ferdinand Wagner, of Munich, one of the most genial painters of our time, who has achieved a high reputation for grandeur of conception, finish of execution, and mastery of coloration, which extends far beyond the confines of Germany. The humorous frescoes adorning the vaults of the Munich Guildhall, were done by him ; and his Tableaux in the Drachenburg Hunting Hall, are among his latest and grandest works.