253 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. Next day make your soup :— Cut up four pounds of good gravy beef, lay the pieces in a suitable pot, pour in seven pints of water, place the pot on the fire, and let the contents boil one hour, with diligent skimming. Meanwhile, chop fine three ounces each of celery leaves, parsley and marjoram, two ounces each of thyme, pimpernel, and tarragon, and an ounce of sorrel, sage and leek mixed. Cut up in small dice six ounces of carrots, three ounces of parsley root, and four ounces of celery root, and throw the whole of the vegetables into the boiling stock. After another hour and a half’s boiling, add a pint of shelled green peas, with four ounces each of purslane and cauli- flower, and keep boiling another half hour. When nearly ready for serving, sweat two ounces of fine flour in four ounces of butter to a light yellow, add twenty grains of ground pepper, and stir into the soup. Now lay in a tureen the number of pieces of eel and stewed pears which in your judgment are required, and add a proportionate part of your soup. Place on the table also a dish with eel and another with pears, and keep a portion of soup ready for another helping. What may be left over of the stock, the eels and the pears should be kept in a cool place, separately, mind, as otherwise an objectionable fishy taste might be given to the stock. One or two days’ keeping even tends to improve the dish, warmed again and served up the second or third day after. Some gastronomists advise addition of forced meat or eel and crayfish-balls to such second editions warmed and served up again. Many years ago I was dining one day at the “ Goldene Gans,” in Breslau, in high gastronomic repute at the time. Among the guests were the late Old Catholic Bishop, Dr. Reinken, and Professor Huber, of Munich, later on also a famous leader in the Old Catholic camp, who was at the time on a visit to the Doctor. Both these eminent to be seceders after were, or, at least, professed to be, then still in the perfervid Chrysalis State of Romanism pure and simple. We had Hamburg Eel and Pear Soup, which the two learned Divines discussed with evident relish, regretfully following with their eyes the “leavings,” as they were being carried off—“Ah, Huber,” exclaimed Reinken to his neighbour at table, “what