ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 243 Battle of Rosbach with more than three to one might surely be thought something for a man to be long remembered by; yet strange to say, perhaps, Soubise’s historic fame would almost seem to be destined to rest more solidly on his great gastronomic feat than on his disastrous defeat. Themis is said not to care for trifles. Clio, unlike her, loves to muse occasionally upon the veriest trivialities. Has she not, e.g., rescued from oblivion even the name of Apicius—that most unestimable Roman who hanged himself simply for having failed in practically compounding some unheard-of dish which he had excogitated in his culinary brain ? Apicius must have been the ancestor direct of the great French chef who fell upon his sword because the fish had not arrived in time for a projected grand dinner. Page 90.—Salting Meat. My innocent quotation from Tegetmeier’s “Handbook of Household Management and Cookery,” anent the general inexpediency and wastefulness of the process of salting meat, and my expressed full agreement with the author upon this physiologically and economically most important matter, have brought down on my devoted head severe epistolary and other animadversions, and a somewhat slighting sneer pointed at me by the otherwise kindly disposed Lady Reviewer of my book in The Queen, who tells me, “it will take more than Mr. Tegetmeier and the Old Bohemian can say,” to persuade English housewives that they ought, physiologically and economically, not to salt their meat before cooking. One lady begs to inform me, “who evidently have no practical experience in the matter,” that meat, so far from having its nutritive property in any way impaired by salting, is actually made more nourishing by the process, as (she says) “in our family we always have much more bread eaten with salt than fresh meat.” This, of course is, conclusive. Live and learn. Page 91.—Extraction of Salt from Brine. Mr. H. Draper calls my attention to the fact that the salt may be separated from brine by the simplest process of dialysis. So it may, of course. Only it did not occur to me when I was writing the passage, as I had in my mind’s eye R 2