ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 273 away. A pound of sugar is dissolved in a capacious bowl in as much water as just suffices to effect solution; about a pound of the picked woodruff is then laid in the bowl, and six bottles of a good sound Moselle or Rhine wine are poured oyer it. I prefer Moselle, but this is, of course, simply a matter of taste; only whether Moselle or Rhine, a pretty strong wine should be taken. About fhteen minutes is ample time for the extraction of the aroma, particularly as an overstrong flavour of the woodroof is, to many, rather objectionable than otherwise. The woodroof is then taken out of the bowl and the asperula-scented contents of the latter are ladled into tumblers. May wine is a charming drink. It may be kept a few days in bottles, it which case it has to be strained first to remove every particle of the woodroof. LIQUEURS. Many purveyors of liqueurs manufacture their wares in a charmingly simple, but, I think, most objectionable way by mixing together in certain proportions, certain essential oils, spirits, water, and sugar. Such liqueurs are, in my opinion, decidedly unwholesome. There is a much better way, which is also simple and easy enough. It requires wide-mouthed large bottles, with tight-fitting corks or stoppers. Summer is the fittest season of the year for most liqueurs, as the most effective way to prepare them is to expose the bottle with the liqueur ingredients to the rays of the sun. The period of exposure varies greatly—from a fortnight or three weeks to a month or six weeks. Some liqueurs, such as French strawberry, for instance, take two full months and longer. Exposure to the sun is not absolutely indispensable, however, and it will mostly answer the purpose sufficiently well to keep the bottles a certain number of days (accord- ing to requirement) near a warm stove. No matter whether exposed to the sun or to the warmth of a stove, the bottles have to be shaken from time to time. Only the very finest loaf sugar should ever be used in the making of liqueurs. For some liqueurs white or brown sugar-candy has to be T