ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 264 one cannot and will not drink boiled water—unless thoroughly re-aerated. It may he quite pure, but I do not think it is potable. One might just as well drink distilled water. Apollinaris is the most agreeable of the sparkling natural waters. Yichy and Yals (Source St. Dominique) are the most suitable of the mineral waters. They both contain a little arsenic, which may be considered to indicate their beneficial use in asthma and consumption. I am not an advocate for indulgence in soda and seltzer. Potassa water seems to me preferable as a drink. Years ago my late friend, William Maugham, an excellent chemist and very good man, introduced what he called Carrara water, as it was made from Carrara marble. I do not know whether it is manufactured still, but I can affirm that at the time I am now referring to I found this sparkling lime- water vastly superior for drinking to soda and potassa water. Water, more particularly aerated water, should never be drunk fresh iced. It is most dangerous to ingest it into the heated body at that low temperature. It is always much wiser and better to sip an ice slowly than gulp down a glass of iced water. Ginger beer also is but too frequently rather a doubtful drink, even now when the manufacture of it has so greatly improved. The danger lies, however, chiefly in the large quantity imbibed occasionally. Never indulge in the bottled lemonade generally supplied by the trade if you can help it. Make your own lemonade. It is a cheap and most refreshing drink. Fourpence will make a gallon or five quarts of it, which it is easy to flavour most inexpensively with a variety of fruit syrups. N.B.—I always make my lemonade with fresh cold spring water, in lieu of boiling either the water or the lemonade. In my time, when at the Algiers Military Hospitals, my lemonade was always liked better by the patients than that of other dispensations ! they found it more agreeable and refreshing. I used to put in two or three minims of pure sulphuric acid per quart of lemonade. Stimulating the action of the skin is justly held to be a sovereign remedy in all chills and colds. Among our most effective diaphoretics figures the elder (Sambucus Nigra).