241 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. through, a tasty stuffing is put in, forcemeat or veal, with two or three small apples sliced, and a few chopped raisins distributed through it. It is then rubbed all over with sweet oil or fat bacon, put into the pan, and roasted in a hot oven, sweet oil or fat bacon being rubbed over from time to time ; and the skin pricked with a larding needle. When the skin gets hard, and looks yellowish-brown, a little salt is rubbed in. It takes eighty minutes to two hours, according to size. When done, a lemon is put into the mouth, and the roast is served piping hot without sauce. The heart and liver, and the boiled lights are chopped fine, and stewed in butter, and chopped shalots are fried a light-yellow in butter, with half an ounce of flour stirred in, and finely chopped lemon peel, salt, grated nutmeg, pimento, and lemon juice added. A suitable portion of stock or gravy is stirred in, and the whole heated to boiling. This dish is served along with the roast sucking pig. An earthen baking pan should be used. Page 85.—Charcoal for Chops and Steaks. Charcoal is really the only proper fuel for broiling. The purest gas flame and the finest and clearest coal-fire are after all but indifferent substitutes for it. Pages 88-90.—Boulettes. There was a grand dish in Paris in my time known as Petits Saucissons de Volatile a la Puree de Pommes a la Creme. These saucissons were in their composition and make not unlike boulettes, only that they were made of daintier materials, and put up in small thin skins in the manner of sausages. They were also called Saucisses Soubise aux Pommes Pom- padour, the first compounding of them being attributed to the gastronomic genius of Prince Soubise, one of the intimes of the Marchioness mistress of Louis XV., and a trusted caterer for her table and menus plaisirs, and who, it would seem, was calculated to shine rather as an amateur chef in the kitchen than as a chief in the field. They were a curiously complex dish. They seem to have gone completely out of existence now, and even in my time they were but rarely met with, and then only on the tables of the wealthy R