ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 256 (a.) Fried Meat and Buckwheat Dumpling. Boil over a slow fire two pounds of best beef and two pounds of rather fat pork in a gallon and a half of unsalted water. When the meat is thoroughly well done and soft, carefully pick out the bones, if any ; chop the meat very fine, put it in a stew-pan, and pour the broth in which it has been boiled over it through a sieve. Let it come to the boil again, and season with salt, pepper, Jamaica pepper, and cloves; then strew in, with constant stirring, one and a half to two pounds of buckwheat flour, let the mass boil some forty to fifty minutes, then transfer the stiff dumplings, which will now easily come off the pan, to dry earthen dishes or plates, and set them in a cool, airy place. In summer, the dumplings will keep eight days, in winter a full fortnight, ready for frying, to which end cut into slices about half an inch thick, heat in a large enamelled frying-pan either good butter or beef suet or pork dripping, or lard. When the butter, &c., is boiling put in the dumpling slices, laying them close side by side, and fry them in open pan, yellow on both sides, so that whilst crisp outside they remain soft within. Serve on mashed potatoes, or with chips. A tasty dish to prepare at a few minutes’ notice. Will serve also to turn to account odd scraps of boiled meat, and tough roast. (b.) Spanish Mixed Stew. This requires a pottery jar with close tight-fitting lid, and a deep stew-pan with boiling water on a good fire. Take one pound each of best rumpsteak, fillet of veal, lean mutton chops (neck), and lean pork (dairy-fed); beat the meat lightly until it feels tender to the touch, then cut it up into slices about half an inch thick; pare, wash, and rinse three to four pounds of good sound potatoes, and cut them also in thin slices. Slice a pound and a half of onions. Keep the two vegetables separate. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the jar, with about an ounce, or an ounce and a half, of butter in small bits laid on, then a layer of the mixed meats, over which strew a little salt, with a few pepper and pimento corns, and a bay-leaf 01 two; now put on a layer of the sliced onions, then begin