245 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. Pages 135 and 136.—Pepperpot. Mr. H. Draper writes me anent this very fine dish as follows :—“ Without wishing to he too dogmatic, I do not think a pepperpot can be made without fresh capsicums, and certainly not without cassareep.” I fully agree with Mr. Draper that addition of these two ingredients is certainly calculated to improve the dish. I would add them both with a sparing hand, however. Cassareep (according to Mr. Draper) from Casse—for Cassava—and reep or repe, supposed to be Drench Creole for root, is used as a valued preservative of meat, and as an agreeable condiment. It is prepared from the roots of the Jatropha Manihot. It is made by expressing the juice from the rhizomes or roots of the tapioca plant, then boiling the liquid down to the consistence of syrup, and seasoning abundantly with pepper, Jamaica pepper, cinnamon and mace. The scum is carefully removed during the process. It is a powerful condiment, half an ounce being amply sufficient to flavour a gallon of soup. It is very difficult to procure it, even in London. What is sold by the name of cassareep is, as a rule, simply Indian soy. I intend to have another try whether it is to be got genuine in London. If so I will give the source. I find I have here (Pepperpot) fallen again into the obvious error of using the vague term “ bunch.” Please read instead, one ounce each of tarragon, chervil, savory, sweet marjoram, and lemon thyme. Page 137.—Mussels. Anent mussels a correspondent writes as follows:—“A dish .which after eating requires quinine and compresses to cure you from its effects really should not find a place in a good cookery book.” Now, this seems hard upon me. I simply meant to advise people fond of mussels to take care to clear away the beard from them, and I pointed out the best remedy to them in case of inadvertent neglect of that recommenda- tion. My revered master, the great Raspail, told me that he and his sons had severely suffered from eating improperly prepared mussels, and how they had successfully combated