ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 265 A strong infusion of elder flowers taken hot with sugar and lemon juice, and fifteen or twenty minims of sweet spirit of nitre, may he safely trusted to bring on perspiration, which, with warm covering, small draughts of lemonade im- bibed now and then through a tube within ready reach of the patient’s mouth will serve to keep up for hours. A fluid ounce of old rum added to the infusion improves the taste and materially assists the action. FERMENTED DRINKS. Page 232. The same reviewer who would all hut excommunicate my salads comes down with equal severity upon my “ cups, grogs, toddies, and punches,” which he calls “ superb yet fearful,” opining that “ none save millionaires with copper- lined stomachs are likely to indulge in them.” Really, this is a little beyond the licence of mere exaggeration. I am not in the habit exactly of consorting with million- aires—rather very much the other way—yet my “ cups, grogs, toddies, and punches ” have never to my knowledge wrought the financial ruin of any moderate indulger in them; whilst I may safely affirm also that the ordinary mucous lining of the stomach does very well for the digestion and healthy disposal of any of my spirituous mixtures—nay, a great deal better, indeed, than the suggested metallic substitute, which would he sure to he injuriously acted upon by the acid juice of the lemon. However, whilst thus resolved to vindicate the moderateness and wholesomeness of my tipples, I must admit that the objections urged against them by my critic cannot be held to he altogether unfounded or frivolous; only that the fault in the matter lies chiefly—one might almost say exclu- sively—with our iniquitous, well-nigh lawless, beer, wine, and spirit trade system. There are hut too many of our purveyors of these most important wares utterly unscrupulous in their dealings with the public—hard-sodden dispensers of abominable poisons, mostly at unconscionable prices in the bargain—which certainly ought to supply the antidote to the poison, hut unhappily does not. Look at the stuff