ADDITIONS AMD EMENDATIONS. 266 palmed upon us by members of the trade as bottled Bass, Guinness, &c.; at the vile raw spirits that are made to pass for “old Tom,” “old whisky,” “best pine-apple rum,” and “French (!!) brandy;” at the miscalled liqueurs that are not properly made, but simply unwholesome mixtures of alcohol, sugar, water, and essential oils. I know full well there are thousands of honest men in the trade, but the difficulty is to find out where to put your hand on them as occasion may arise. Unhappily the lower strata of society use their worst endeavours to encourage the adulteration of good sound liquor, instead of essaying their might and main to check it. The other day I saw in a “ cheap art ” window the picture of a most-degraded looking specimen of male humanity, leaning for much-needed support against the jamb of the portal open- ing into a spirit shop; to whom a kindred crone, “ Do they sell good whuskee in there?” “Good whuskee!” he huskily responds, evidently with a sustained hiccough; “ I should think so. Why, look at me—all for tuppence ! ” Years ago a friend of mine, a good decent fellow, took a free house near the Surrey, with the honest deter- mination to sell only pure beer, pure wines, and pure spirits there, He laid in a sufficient stock of Barclay’s, and tapped it as he got it. His customers at once struck, and, however reluctantly, he had to send for the “ doctor ” to avoid financial ruin. A few weeks after you could get as bad drinks there as anywhere in London. Comment is needless. About a twelvemonth ago a gentleman of my acquaintance asked my opinion about an assortment of wines which he had just received from the Chevalier Mayer in Frankfort-on-the- Main. I found all the wines quite pure and altogether of good quality. There was, more especially, a Mersteiner of 1874, which certainly was fully worth the moderate price of thirty shillings a dozen charged for it. There were also some samples of sparkling Champagne, Burgundy, Hock, and Moselle—that might have passed muster anywhere at sixty and even sixty-six shillings per dozen, though they were marked only fifty-four shillings. Well, last spring some kind friends took me with them on a trip through the West of England. At most of the hotels