ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 236 tively small charge of even the commonest and cheapest ice and rock salt or kitchen salt, any cream or water ice may be turned out in presentable shape ready for the table in a very few minutes. Claret and champagne may be iced most expeditiously. In default of ice a mixture of muriate of ammonia, common washing soda, and water will act as a perfectly efficient substitute. Pages 43-44.—Special Process of Stewing. As the immersion of the cold jar of course considerably lowers the temperature of the water in the stew-pan, some authorities direct first to raise the heat over a sharp fire again to near boiling, before transfering the pan to the hot-plate. Pages 44-45.—Preservation of Eggs and Detection of bad Eggs. A lady correspondent takes me severely to task for a grievous sin of omission. “ Why not mention,” she sternly asks, “ two of the easiest ways to try whether an egg is good or bad, to put your tongue to the big end, and if it feels warm it is good, if cold it is bad ; or to float it on cold water in a pan, and if it sinks it is good, if it floats it is bad. And to keep eggs, you never speak of bran and flour, or, the best of all, salt, as is done in all good cookery books.” These are my irate correspondent’s ipsissima verba. I would beg the lady kindly to remember that this little book does not profess to be a compilation of rules and processes relating to food, but simply a kind of summary of the results of my personal experience in kitchen and larder, and that the limited space at my command compels me to be eclectic in •my statements. I beg to assure her that I have tried the various ways suggested by her, but that I have found those given in the text the safest and surest. I have to remark, more especially, that if an egg has advanced to the floating stage there is really little need to try whether it will sink or swim. I have not unfrequently seen eggs placed the little end downward in fine wood ashes to keep them ; I have tried it myself, but I have never succeeded in preserving them by this means for any notable length of time.