ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 255 Next morning, when the nests are thoroughly softened, pick out with a larding needle the small black points, which are simply minute feathers that have got into the structure of the nest. Cut the nests now in fillets, lay them in a suitable stew- pan, add three or four grains of cayenne pepper; sixty grains of Liebig’s Extract of Meat; and half a bottle of Madeira ; and boil slowly over a gentle fire or on the hot plate. By this time your rich stock should be ready. To prepare this, cut, the night before, four ounces of suet moderately small, lay the pieces in a pan, cover amply with fresh cold water, and let it stand over night, changing the water at least once. Next morning, chop the suet fine, and cover with it the bottom of a suitable pan, which will hold about six quarts of water. Lay in two large Spanish onions, cut in finger thick slices, three pounds of beef off the rump, and two pounds of veal off the leg, both cut up in pieces, and well washed. Add a quarter pound of lean ham in slices, and half a ladleful of ordinary beef-tea. Place the pan on a very moderate fire, and stew slowly until a light-brown coloration begins to show at the bottom. Fill the pan now up to some four inches from the rim with boiling beef-tea, and let it boil on slowly, skimming carefully until no more scum rises to the surface. Meanwhile, half-roast an old fowl and two old part- ridges, or pigeons, which then add to the stock in the pan, with a middling carrot, a parsley root, part of a celery root, all cut or sliced, and a couple of leeks, and let the con- tents of the pan, closely covered, boil slowly five or six hours. Then skim off all the fat, and pour the skimmed stock through a napkin slowly into an earthen pot. This produces about two quarts of very rich stock, golden yellow in colour, concentrated in strength, and most pleasant in flavour. Add this and another half bottle of Madeira to the birds’-nests. Stew, and give the whole another twenty minutes’ boiling. Lastly, skim with care, salt at your discre- tion, and serve hot in a tureen. I think this a suitable place to add a few less complex out-of-the-way dishes.