MEATS. 76 Dr. Julius Fancher, a German gentleman of French extraction, who afterwards became a member of the Progressist Party in the Prussian Chamber, acted in London as private Secretary to Richard Cobden. I knew him intimately at the time. His great boast was that he was free from the least tinge of eccentricity. Well, one day I had invited him to a roast shoulder of mutton. I saw that he was fidgety and glancing about in every direction. “What is it you are looking for?” I asked. “ Where is the mustard ?55 he replied. “ I cannot eat mutton without mustard.” It was in the earlier days of the Savage Club when its local habitation was the Lyceum Tavern, then under the management of Mrs. Spielman and her daughters. I was mixing a grand salad. Finding that the oil ran rather short, I sent Old William, the waiter, down to the bar with a polite request for an additional supply. The young ladies obligingly sent up a flask, from which I, being in a hurry, proceeded at once to make up the deficiency, when—alas, too late—my nose revealed to me and others the sad fact that it was the ladies’ hair oil which I had used. I was mercilessly chaffed, of course, by none more than by my friend Tegetmeier, who has always been my rival in salads and grogs. The stupid old waiter had asked for “more oil,” and the ladies had understood ‘ ‘ hair oil.” A story is told of a young lady in Germany who had got married chiefly upon her supposed skill in pastry. The misfortune was that it was the mother who was the real cook, the young lady being well-nigh innocent of all and everything pertaining to the kitchen. She trusted however her deceit would not be found out, as she was firmly resolved to turn over a new leaf, and to be guided in her culinary efforts by a good cookery book. So when after the honeymoon the young couple settled down to the sober business of life in a home of their own, with a single servant—a raw country girl ignorant of everything—the young bride entered upon the study of cookery with a will, and for a few days she managed pretty well. The husband, wishful to show off his charmer’s brilliant talents in the pastry way, invited a couple of friends to dinner, and begged his little wife to make a mixed