ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 251 of parsley, savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, basil, lemon thyme and sage, all tied together in a bunch, with a dozen bay leaves added, and twelve cloves, an ounce each of whole white pepper and mace. Put all these ingredients (carrots, &c.) in a clean muslin bag, which tie with a string. 6. Scrape two pounds of fresh plucked beetroots, pulp in a mortar, strain through a tammy into a pan, and add a bottle of good claret to the liquor, which heat to boiling on the fire. 7. Half roast a fat capon, two plump partridges, and two fine ducklings. 8. Take a dozen fieldfares, put them in a suitable pan with an ample portion of butter, strew a little salt over them, cover close, and let the birds do slowly in a hot oven. When done, carve the breasts out, and cut them up in very thin slices, which lay in a large tureen. Put aside the hearts and livers, and pound the skeletons in a mortar. Stew the paste in the butter in which the birds have been done, stir in an ounce of flour, add a pint and a half of your stock (1), and let it boil gently ; after an hour’s boil, skim off the fat, pass the soup through a tammy, and add it to the boiling stock (1). 9. Strain the stock through a tammy into another large well-tinned iron stew-pot, skim the fat off, salt moderately, and let come to the boil again. Then suspend in it the muslin bag with the roots, &c. (5), and add the cabbage (3), the sourcrout (4), and the beet fillets (2). Give it now an hour’s boiling, after which add a pound of bacon from the breast, a sweetbread, and the half-roasted partridges, ducklings, and capon (7). How watch the stewing, and take the bacon, the sweetbread, and the birds up gradually as they are done. Cut the sweetbread in slices, and the bacon in thin square pieces, carve and trim and fillet the birds in appetising fashion, putting hearts and livers aside, and removing the gizzards. Lay bacon, sweetbread, and birds thus prepared in the tureen with the fieldfare breasts. 10. Mince the hearts and livers of the birds very fine, with two ounces each of shalots, and mixed sweet herbs, and one ounce of parsley, all chopped fine; add two pounds of good, fresh-made pork sausage-meat, four ounces pounded