ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 248 as, though of course familiar to all good cooks, they are yet apt occasionally to he disregarded. Earthenware vessels are better suited to make soups and broths than metal ones. They are more economical, as they require less heat, and accordingly less fuel to keep the contents on the gentle boil; they are also the cleanest and purest, as they communicate no extraneous flavour or smell whatever to the meat, &c., boiled in them. With proper care and attention they will keep fit for use a long time. Pots, &cM lined with earthenware come next, and are even preferred by many, only that they come rather dear. However, well-tinned iron vessels answer almost equally well; but copper and brass pots, &c., should never be used for soups and broths; or, at least, their contents should always be taken out at once when done. Never let soups, &c., cool in the pot, &c., in which they have been boiled ; least of all with the lid on, as the steam would condense on the inside, re-absorbing oxygen, then drop back, and thus tend to sour the soup or broth. The simplest way is to pour out the soup, &c., into an earthenware or stoneware jar. All bones and parings of flesh and fowl are useful for the stock-pot. Crush the bones if practicable, or at least break them. Keep vegetables out of your stock-pot as far as practicable, as they have a tendency to bring on fermentation. The same applies to the flesh of immature animals, which is much better for fresh-made soup or broth. Roots, herbs, and vegetables had always better be boiled separately, even for fresh-made soups, but at least for the stock-pot. They can easily be kept ready at hand in suitable vessels in the water-bath. In large and well-appointed kitchens I have often seen a capacious water-bath with a number of such vessels holding a variety of vegetables, rice, barley, lentils, vermicelli, &c., all ready to be added to the broth or stock according to requirement, so that a variety of soups might be expeditiously made with the same stock or broth. In reference to this speedy way of making soup, I think it may not be altogether uninteresting to give my recent experience of a palatable and nutritious soup which I was induced to try in a protracted fit of dyspepsia. The recipe is very simple.