249 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. Take an ounce of Robinson’s barley or groats, or of a mix- ture of both; blend it with an equal portion of cold water to a smooth paste, and add this, with constant stirring, to a pint of boiling beef tea, mutton, veal or chicken broth, or good stock, seasoned with salt and pepper, and with a shalot thinly sliced, a bit of celery root, and a little parsley boiled in it. Stir in 50 or 60 grains of Liebig’s extract, let it just come to the boil again, then remove and serve. I never found anything more easily digested. I have since recom- mended it warmly to dyspeptics, more notably to a lady and gentleman, brother and sister, who had come down to West- gate-on-Sea to try to get up a little strength to fit them for a trip to Australia. They were both suffering from almost hopelessly impaired digestion, and felt growing weaker day by day notwithstanding the arsenical medication they had been recommended to try. They took my advice; three months after they left for Australia, with greatly improved digestions and much better nourished frames than when they had first come to Westgate. Never take more than double the weight of water to that of the meat used. It is no true economy; also avoid the use of fat meat as far as practicable. Stale meat should never be used in soup or broth. Be chary of seasoning and spices. A little of these things will go a long way. But a very little sugar judiciously added will often be found to greatly improve the flavour. Never indulge over freely in onion or shalot in soups. I append three soup recipes not generally known—a Russo-Polish, a German, and a Chinese, to wit:— A.—CZY-BORC*—TSGHY-BORCH. Imperial compound Russo-Polish Cabbage, Beetroot, and Sourcrout Soup a la Herzen. The subjoined curious recipe was given to me some thirty- five years ago by the late Dr. Tausenau, who had it direct from Alexander Herzen, a wealthy Russian gentleman of * I cannot vouch for the correctness of the spelling. My knowledge of the Slavic tongues is almost nil.