238 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. Lingner, of Old Compton Street, and I can conscientiously aver that I have always been served excellently well with the best goods at moderate prices. I can more especially recommend the German, Trench, and Italian sausages, West- phalia ham, sourcrout, Dutch herrings, Marinatal herrings, salt-pickled cucumbers—so-called Salzgurken—and foreign cheeses, Diisseldorf table mustard and white wine vinegar. I may remark here, en passant, that certain kinds of Italian and Trench sausages (the Lyons, for instance) cannot well be made in England, as the flesh of young foals of asses (a month to six weeks old) enters into their composition. Pages 49-50.—Butter. It is unhappily by no means easy to procure genuine butter in England. We punish the thief, the forger, the swindler, and the party who obtains money by false pretences; but with the fatal laissez alter, laissez faire tendency of our national character, we have weakly and meekly let ourselves be invaded by adulteration in nearly every practicable article of consumption, more especially in butter. Butterine and other similar abominations triumphantly hold the market in the brazen guise of spurious brands. Even the much- bepraised — so-called — Brittany and Normandy cdemisel butters’ are only too often simply the vilest mixtures of animal fats, in comparison to which the very lowest Dorset may be looked upon as prime. Always procure your butter at shops of good repute. I have for some time past now got my butter from Ireland—from a farmer named Scanlan, of Allenagh, Longford—sent over to me by goods train at about thirteen pence a pound. The quality is prime, equal to the best Devonshire and Holstein. It is a glorious article, fit for the daintiest fish and the most delicate pastry. I order it as a rule half-salted or third- salted, occasionally also fresh or unsalted. I have also tried some splendid Cork butter of late—vastly superior to the Trench article. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Just keep Trench butter and Irish butter a week or ten days—then taste them, and I am sure you will prefer the Irish.