ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 235 The pound means the commercial pound of sixteen ounces = 256 drams = 768 scruples = 7680 grains avoirdupois. The commercial ounce accordingly is divided into sixteen com- mercial drams, which again are divided into three scruples each; one scruple is ten grains. The commercial ounce is = 480 grains avoirdupois, or 437*5 grains Troy, the latter being larger than the former in the proportion of 79 to 72 nearly. The liquid measure of the imperial pint is reckoned to be, by weight, equal to twenty commercial ounces of 437 *5 Troy grains each = 8750 grains Troy. It is subdivided into sixteen fluid ounces of 546*875 Troy grains, or \\ avdp. ounce each. As regards lemons, I have occasionally known some extra fine samples to weigh seven ounces and above, with three ounces and above pure juice. The juice of a lemon in the text means throughout two ounces = If fluid ounce. An egg should be precised throughout as two ounces by weight of yolk and white. “A bunch of herbs ” means two ounces in all cases where no special remark is appended. A heaped tablespoonful of flour weighs an ounce, stricken measure half an ounce. Onions differ widely in weight. “ Add an onion,’* or “ slice an onion ” is therefore an objectionably vague direc- tion. The weight may in fact range, speaking in the rough, between two ounces and less and twelve ounces and above. I think it best, then, to precise the weight of the onion in the recipes in the text. “ A small onion ” means two to two ounces and a half by weight; “an onion” simply, four ounces by weight'; a Spanish onion from ten to twelve onnces, a large Spanish onion from fourteen to eighteen ounces, “ a shalot ” means half an ounce by weight. Page 39.—Requisites in Kitchen, fyc.—(between lines 5 and 6 from top.) A freezing machine, a butter-cooler, and a refrigerator or ice safe are articles almost indispensable in a good kitchen. Prom personal experience I can safely recommend Ash’s celebrated piston freezing machine, butter-cooler, and re- frigerator as fully answering the purpose for which they are severally intended, and having the vital advantage of true economy combined with perfect efficiency. With a compara-