242 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. at large dinner and supper parties, and in high-class hotels and restaurants, where the poultry, &c., could he utilised without loss. The subjoined recipe I had from the chef at the Trois Fr&res Provengaux, the most famous of the three great Palais Royal dining-saloons of the period—Verrey’s and the Rocher de C-ancale being the other two:—Roast at a brisk clear fire a fine turkey, a plump duck, two fat capons, and six good-sized pigeons. When half done, carve out the breasts, and chop them with the hearts and livers very fine, together with two pounds of lean pork chops, half broiled ; add a pound of sound fat bacon cut into very small pieces, with two ounces each of sweet herbs, parsley, truffles, mush- rooms, and sultanas, the peel of a lemon, and ten grains of garlic, all chopped very fine. Work and knead the mass well together; season with four ounces of fine salt, one ounce each of ground pepper and pimento, and two nutmegs grated; add an ounce and a half of fresh lemon-juice and a wineglassful of Malaga, and thoroughly mix the whole mass once more; then fill in very thin small chitterlings, and make into sausages three inches long, about twelve to fifteen to the pound. Pare, wash, and dry six pounds of mealy potatoes, and boil‘them in new milk; when thoroughly done and soft, mash and pass through a fine sieve ; chop two ounces each of parsley and shalots very fine, and fry eight to ten minutes in six ounces of fresh butter; mix with this a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs, and add the mixture to the mash. Season with an ounce and a half of fine salt, a quarter ounce of ground white pepper, and a little mace. Put the whole in an earthenware dish and heat in a brisk oven until the crust turns yellow; melt a pound of fresh butter in a sauce- pan over a charcoal fire, and add a teacupful of water; when boiling put in the sausages, cover close, and keep for six or eight minutes on the fire. Serve hot on the mashed potatoes. A dainty dish indeed +o set before the most exacting epicure, but extravagantly expensive and painfully trouble- some to make. Had its reputed inventor bestowed hut half the thought and care upon his battle order at Rosbach, his eighty thousand men might not have been so ignominiously driven from the field by only eight thousand riders and fourteen thousand of all other arms. To have lost the