ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 263 but I have found none so satisfactory as a vessel called tbe “ Kaffee Kanne,” which consists of an ordinary biggin surrounded by a jacket containing boiling water, which acts as a most efficient cosy. The coffee is made by percolation (not boiling, which, as you justly state, is synonymous with spoiling) in an inner vessel, and is kept at the point of ebullition by the surrounding boiling water—a contrivance which evolves the essential oil of the coffee, and produces a beverage of excellent aroma and quality. Yours, F. C. S. Tea. Pages 213 and 216.—canella. Mr. H. Draper calls my attention to the fact that canella is the name of a West Indian tree and an aromatic bark obtained from it, which is occasionally used in medicine, and that this may lead to mistaking the one for the other. What I mean by canella is simply the bark of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum, which is a very superior article indeed to the bark of Cinna- momum Cassia and other species of cinnamon. It is, in fact, the finest cinnamon known, and is very much costlier than any other sort. Canella, or some other name similarly spelt and pronounced, is the general name in all European lan- guages the same as it was formerly in England also. How- ever, I quite agree with Mr. Draper that now it is best to call it cinnamon. Page 220. A fewwords anent water and some other simple unfermented drinks. Drinking water should always be filtered. Many of the filters now in use are pretty nearly equally suited for the purpose of cleaning water more or less of gases and other im- purities. Years ago I used to make a filter of my own, in which the filtering medium consisted of a mixture in equal parts of sand and animal charcoal, with a tenth part of iron filings worked through. This filter answered my purpose indifferently well; but I am not sufficiently well versed in this matter to venture upon advising others to try it. Some authorities maintain that nothing short of boiling the water will purify it for drinking. It may be so, but I for