ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 254 a dish for Lent!—could one but have a dispensation for the stock ! ” C.—CHINESE BIRDS’-NESTS SOUP. I am almost afraid the last two dishes may, to many readers, look a little “awful.” Well, all I can say by way of apology for giving them a place in this little book is that thousands of people in the East and Centre of Europe eat them with wonderful relish. The vagaries of the human heart and mind are infinite in their variety, and unbounded in the extravagance of their conception. Why should not the human palate be permitted to compete with them*? And, after all, the Russo-Polish “mixture,” and the Hamburg flesh, fish, and fruit compound, are perhaps quite as rational, at least, as the strange elevation of the gelatinous salivary secretions of a small bird to the proud pinnacle of “ crowning ” ingredient in a “Royal Dish.” It is still a moot point with naturalists whether the edible nests built by the tiny swifts of the Eastern Archipelago are formed entirely of some special material secreted by the bird in the act of making the nest, or are constituted chiefly of algae, with the salivary secretion of the bird used for cement. Of late the evidence seems to pre- ponderate in favour of the former view. Be this as it may, the notion of feasting upon the salivary secretion of a bird would not seem particularly inviting, and considering that these nests in their quality and flavour resemble isinglass, their extreme costliness—something like twenty shillings per ounce (each tiny nest weighs about half an ounce)—might surely be thought an effective bar to their use as the daintiest ingredient in a dainty dish. Far from this being the case, however, the “Batavia,” or Chinese Birds’-nests Soup has of late years been slowly, but surely gaining ground in high class, nay even in princely and royal kitchens. The subjoined recipe is taken from Davidis-Rosendorf’s Classic Manual of Cookery. Take eight or ten nests, four or five ounces by weight, lay them in cold beef tea, and let them soak over night