272 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. B.—Cold. The same mixture and preparation, simply omitting the boiling of the cream. Note.—Some authorities prefer to use the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks; others both whites and yolks.— See “Egg and Wine Punch” and “Egg Rum Punch.” Rum and new milk in the proportion of one part of the former to two or three parts of the latter make an excellent liquor, partaking largely of the nature of true food, which the yolk of a fresh egg stirred in makes still more nutritive. MILK PUNCH. A dozen fine fresh lemons, two and a half pounds of best refined lump sugar, one ounce of gunpowder tea, three pints of old pineapple rum, one quart of best pale Erench brandy, a pint of fine old arrack, half a pint each of kirschwasser and maras- chino, a wineglassful of dry curaqao, a gallon of water, and two quarts and a half of new milk. Pare the lemons very fine and steep the peel overnight in the rum. Infuse the tea in a pint of boiling water, let it draw four or five minutes, then pour the infusion over the sugar, in a capacious bowl, add a pint of the juice of the lemons, and four quarts of cold water. Stir, and pour in the spirits. Let the milk come to the boil in a saucepan, and add it boiling to the contents of the bowl, with constant stirring. Let the punch stand till quite cold; then pass it through a straining cloth, and fill it in bottles. This punch may, of course, be made in smaller quantities ; only the manufacture will be found more difficult with smaller proportions of the ingredients. MAY DRINK. This very pleasing drink can be made properly only in April and May, chiefly from the latter part of the former to the first half of the latter month, as it has to be made with the young leaves of the woodroof or woodruff (Asperula odor at a), gathered before flowering. The stalks and leaves of the plant are gathered with proper care, only the youngest and freshest being selected for use. The lower parts of the stalks, with the leaves thereon, ar£ plucked off and thrown