268 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. the few that are within the ken of my personal observation and experience. I will freely admit also that in the selection of my drink recipes in the first edition I have been a little over high and exclusive. So with the reader’s kind permission I will, among the few additional drinks here following, include some of the simpler and cheaper sort. But, first and foremost, let me give the following excellent cup kindly suggested by the Saturday Review. “ Put a large slice of pineapple at the bottom of the jug, with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, pour over it a bottle of sound Medoc, insert a lump of ice as big as a baby’s head, and just when you want to serve it add a pint bottle of good Sparkling Moselle.” This is indeed an admirable cup to drink with a few friends. I say it from my heart, I should very much like to share in such a cup with so kind and kindred a spirit. The quantities given in the subjoined recipes are, of course, simply proportional, and may accordingly be proportionally varied. As regards the proper quantity of sugar in prepared drinks, this has to be left, in a very great measure at least, to the taste and discretion of the mixer. I use about one ounce of loaf sugar per half-pint tumbler. A deal of trouble may be saved easily enough by the substitution of syrup for sugar. You may make your own syrup by dissolving over a very gentle fire, or simply by the side of the hob, in a pint (16 fluid ounces) of distilled water, about two pounds and a quarter of best refined loaf sugar. This will give a good thick syrup, with about 352 grs. of sugar in every fluid ounce. Some add to this syrup lemon juice, orange juice, &c., in varying proportions. I prefer to add the fresh juices when wanted. As a rule the drink is all the better. RUM OR ARRACK GROG. A Bowl for four. Dissolve half a pound of sugar in half a pint of boiling water, in a bowl, add the yellow rind of half a fresh lemon shaved off very thin ; then pour in a bottle of .the oldest pineapple rum or arrack you can get, stir, and fill up with