ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 234 dietetics, I crave permission to suggest, with becoming diffidence, to persons with a tendency to over-stoutness, not to trouble quite so anxiously about the fleshy or fatty nature of their diet, hut to cultivate moderation in eating and drinking, and to take as much healthy exercise as the system will hear without over-fatigue—and I venture to think that with healthy digestion waiting on healthy appetite they will not have much cause to fear abnormal development of fat. Page 28.—Provisions, and where to get them. Anent the proper selection of provisions required in a household, I think I may crave permission to point out, from time to time, as occasion may arise, the best sources of supply of certain articles. I may honestly add that my hints and recommendations in these matters are throughout based upon the unbiased experience of many years, so that they may be safely relied on. Page 32.—Gas Ranges. I have of late had frequent occasion to watch Sugg’s “Charing Cross Patent Gas Kitchener” in full operation, and being thus in a position now to speak from per- sonal experience, I can vouch for the smooth, practical and effective working of this excellent apparatus, which, indeed, comes nearer my idea of the perfect gas range of the future than any other contrivance as yet known to me. Pages 36-37.—{Foot-note.) Weights and Measures. I have in this new edition essayed to substitute the graduated measure and scale weight for all vague quantities. With the beautifully simple decimo-metrical system, such as rules in all weights and measures on the Continent, this would be plain sailing needing no further remark. But with our slightly confusing system of double scales of weight— the Troy and Commercial—re-inforced by the Imperial pint measure, with its double subdivision into sixteen fluid ounces, and twenty commercial ounces—a few words are necessary to precise the exact weight and measure of the pound, ounce, dram, scruple, and grain ; and the pint and the fluid ounce, as these terms are used in this little volume.