250 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. some fame at the time in politics and sociology, and author of “Letters from the Other Shore”; also a distinguished Gastronomist and Amateur Chef:—The dish modestly pro- fesses to be simply a cabbage, beetroot, and sourcrout soup, and the name of it certainly is not over-inviting, but it is in reality a most complex concoction of costly ingredients with the cabbage, beetroot, and sourcrout just thrown in, seem- ingly, by way of make-weight as it were. It is rather troublesome to make, and may be fairly regarded as a fitting pendant to Prince Soubise’s famous gastronomic achievement —les beaux esprits se rencontrent Dr. Tausenau, who might have successfully competed with the most famous contemporary chefs, would occasionally invite a few friends to dine with him at his chambers in Barnard’s Inn. At one of these dinners, when I was a guest, he placed this grand dish before us. It met with delighted approbation. I preferred it vastly to the Polish Borch of my childhood, which is constructed on somewhat similar lines, with this material difference, however, that there enters into its composition a large quantity of beetroot vinegar. 1. First make your stock. Take eight pounds of best gravy beef and four pounds of veal, free from fat; cut the meat in small dice, or thin slices. Place these in a capacious earthenware, or well-tinned iron, pot with two gallons and a half of water. Put the pot on the hob or hot-plate, and let it gently simmer five hours and a half. 2. Meanwhile clean six pounds by weight of fresh pulled beetroots, and cut them lengthways in thin fillets; roll these in fine flour; then let them stew half an hour in eight ounces of butter in a close-covered stew-pan. 3. Put the leaves of a fine head of cabbage, taken off one by one, into a suitable pan, pour boiling water over them, put on the lid, and let the pan stand fifteen minutes on the hot plate. 4. Take two pounds of Sourcrout, with the juniper berries picked out, and chop it fine. 5. Take one pound by weight of carrots, a celery root, and a parsley root, half a pound of onions, and four ounces each of shalots and leeks, all sliced or cut small; two ounces each