262 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. should always be f resh roasted. This roaster will at the most do three-quarters of a pound at a time ; just sufficient for eight to twelve cups of first-rate coffee. The first cost—from seven to twelve pounds—may sound a little dear, but in large private kitchens and in high-class restaurants the economy of fuel and the unerring perfection of the process will soon make up amply for the original outlay. Page 207.—Ash's Apparatus. I have also had occasion since to make a series of experi- ments in infusing coffee, in the course of which I have tried well nigh every known method, and almost every apparatus, pot, biggin, &c., used for coffee making, and as a final result I have found Ash’s Kaffee Kanne the very best and most efficient apparatus to obtain a bright, strong and aromatic infusion of coffee—even when made with Domingo, Brazil, and the lower sorts of Ceylon. I venture to reprint here from the Times of September 14th, 1882, a letter, written, as I have been informed since, by a distinguished chemist, with whose views and opinions on coffee making I fully agree :— To the Editor of the “ Times." Sir,—Will you allow me space, as a coffee-drinker of many years’ experience, to supplement with a few remarks your useful and amusing article on coffee ? 1st. I always grind my own coffee, but, as I do not roast it, I take the precaution to discard any sample containing berries which have been over-roasted or in any degree burnt or charred, in which case the berries would present a more or less blackened appearance, somewhat resembling charcoal. Over-torrefaction destroys the aroma and volatile oil upon which the agreeable flavour of the coffee depends. 2nd. Soft water makes bad coffee, moderately hard water the reverse. The soft water extracts from the coffee certain bitter principles which mask its delicate aroma and flavour. 3rd. I give for the benefit of people of a confiding nature, who will purchase ground coffee, a rough and approximate test as to its quality. Let them throw a small quantity upon some water placed in a tumbler or wine-glass: what coffee there is in the sample will float, while any chicory will fall to the bottom of the glass and impart a brown tint to the water. 4th. I have tried many biggins and patented coffee apparatus,