252 ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. plain biscuit, half an ounce fine salt, thirty grains each of ground white pepper, allspice, cloves, and grated nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix and work this well together and make into small meat-balls, which roll in pounded plain biscuit. 11. Keep your stock boiling two hours and a half longer, then remove the muslin bag with the vegetables (5), and put in instead the meat balls (10). Give it another half hour’s boiling, then add to it the beetroot and claret liquor boiling, which will impart to the soup a fine claret colour. 12. Lastly, take a pint of clotted cream, work an ounce of fine flour and two egg yolks through it, and add this to the soup. Give it another boil up, then strain boiling through a cloth over the solids in the tureen, and serve hot. B. HAMBURG EEL SOUP AND STEWED PEARS. A Favourite German Dish. In bygone times I was passionately fond of this dish, and whenever I was staying in Hamburg at the proper season, I rarely was absent from the table d’hdte at the Petersburg Hotel when this appetising dish figured on the menu. This lithe recipe: Take two fine eels, weighing together about three pounds, and rub them all over with salt; wash them well, wipe them dry, and cut them up in inch pieces, rejecting the head and the point of the tail. Lay the pieces in a stew- pan (earthen or ■well tinned iron), sprinkle half an ounce of salt over them, add a fluid ounce of pure French vinegar, thirty peppercorns, black and white mixed, a sprig of fennel, two bay leaves, and a bottle of good white wine (Lauben- heimer or Sauterne will do). Put on the lid, place the pan over a charcoal fire, or on the hot plate, and let it stew slowly until the eel is thoroughly done ; transfer to a dish. Pare six pounds of good stewing pears, lay them uncut with the stalks left in, in a suitable pan (earthen or well tinned iron), with sixty grains of fine cinnamon and thirty cloves; pour in a bottle of pale sherry, put the pan on the hot plate, and let it stew slowly for a compote—but without sugar. When the compote is done transfer to a dish. Stand the two dishes in a cool place till next day.