ADDITIONS AND EMENDATIONS. 240 New rice also contains occasionally a little acid, which has to he removed, more particularly when the rice is intended to be made into a dish with milk. This is effected easily enough by simply rubbing the grains in water between the palms, then putting the rice.on the fire in a saucepan with cold water, and before it comes to the boil pouring it out on a sieve. Pages 68 and 69—Morgan's Method of Preserving Meat. A valued friend of mine coolly tells me that he and Dr. Morgan used to pickle pigs alive by a process similar to that here suggested. How horrid! Enough to make a man forswear pickled pork for ever. It may be charitably assumed, however, that the “ pickling alive” is simply a trope for fresh killed. I have a notion also that the pickling process re- ferred to is simply that known as Morgan's quick method of salting beef wholesale for the Navy. Morgan’s process, however, differs materially from the one suggested in the text. Readers curious in the matter will find Morgan’s method described at length in the Journal of the Society of Arts, March, 1884. Page 72.—(Foot note.)—Sucking Pig. My friend Harry Draper, who ranks equally higb as a chemist and a gastronomist, tells me that sucking pig is still a great favourite with all classes of society in Russia. In Moscow he found the interesting juvenile porker en evidence in every butcher’s shop. And the Russian cooks know how to prepare it in a most appetizing fashion. In Germany also, more particularly in the northern parts, roast sucking pig—gebratenes Spanferkel—holds its place among the most dainty dishes. As a rule the animal is killed from twenty-four to thirty- six days old. It is generally sent from the butcher’s ready for the spit. There is a conflict of authorities about singeing or scalding. I prefer the latter, as it makes the sucking pig look whiter and more delicate. Whether singed or scalded, it is rubbed inside with salt, and wiped dry. A wooden spit is run through the body lengthways, long enough to let the two ends rest on the rim of the pan. About half a pint of water is poured into the pan. Before running the spit