t 12 ) J FITZGERALD MOLLOY’S REGENT WORKS- “ Mr. Fitzgerald, Malloy has a gift and a charm ^hich are peculiarly his own. He is a Voyant, a clairvoyant even, from a literary po/nt of view. He sees things—not in the present hut in the past—so clearly, grasps them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without any of the dust and rust of time,”—G. H. S. in Echoes of the Week. Famous Plays: from Congreve’s “ Love for Love” to Lytton’s “ Lady of Lyons.” With a Dis. course on the Playhouses of the Restoration- Large post 8vo. io|6. Royalty Restored ; or, London Under Charles II. two vols., large crown 8vo., with an Original Etching of Charles II., and eleven other portraits. 25I-. “The most important historical work yet achieved by its author. .... It has remained for aipicturesque historian to achieve 3uch a work in its entirety, and to tell a tale as it has never before been told.”—Daily ’Telegraph. “ His book, which is the best, may very well be the last on the subject. . . . The shrewdness, the cynicism, the profound egotism of the Merry Monarch are dexterously conveyed in this picture of him, and the book is variously and vividly interesting.’’—World. Court Life Below Stairs ; or, London Under the Georges. Fourth Edition. Two vols. Crown 8vo. I2|-. “Mr. Molloy’s style is crisp, and carries the reader along; his portraits of the famous men and women of the time are etched with care, and hisjiarrative rises to intensity and dramatic impressiveness as he follows the latter days of Queen Caroline.”—British Quarterly Review. That Villain, Romeo. A Novel. Crown 8vo. 6|-. “ Few society stories possess the merit of “ That Villain, Romeo.” The principal charm in Mr. Molloy’s novel is the complex and picturesque study of his heroine. Nothing more piquant and fasci- nating was ever painted than Marcus Phillip’s model. Mr. Molloy's weird sketches of Bohemia,,and his bright, incisive style will suffice to ensure the success of his new novel.”—Morning Post.