DISEASES OF THE MASTOID PROCESS. 341 "be considered as furnishing almost positive proof that the mastoid cells have been obliterated, or are still lieing obliterated, by a process of hyperostosis. As far as the atfection itself is concerned, the prognosis is by no means bad. The olditeration of the mastoid cells by the conversion of all this part of the mastoid process into solid Imne, is apt to do harm only in two ways : It shuts off the possibility of a spontaneous cure in the event of the development of serious intlammation in the antrum ; and it is also apt to prevent the develop- ment of those outward evidences wliich afford so valuable a Avarning of the existence of deep-seated disease in this part. Treatment.—Hot poultices, leeches, and even Wilde’s incision, will probably fail to give more than temporary relief. If sucli prove to be the case, and if the pain continue unabated, we should not hesitate to resort to perforation of the painful bone, Avith a drill or other suitable instrument. One opening Avill probably suffice, })i’Ovided that it be carried to a depth of fully half an inch. As the beneticial effects of this operation, in a ease of this nature, depend not upon the establishment of an outlet for pent-up products of intlanimation, but rather upon the derivative effects exerted by such a wound in the bone, no effort need be made to reach the antrum. A straight, vertical incision may therefore be made through the mastoid integuments, and the point of the drill may be applied as far in front of this line, on a level Avith the upper Avail of the meatus, as the stretcliing of the divided periosteum Avill permit. The healing of the Avound may be delayed to advantage, by inserting into it a tent of sheet-lint, Avell anointed Avith carbolated vaseline. At the end of tAA^enty-four, or at the most foi'ty-eight hours, tlie tent should be removed. In addition to these measures, Avhich are directed more particularly to the osteitis, Ave must not neglect to do Avhatever may be found necessary for the relief of the disease Avhich involves tbe middle ear proper. The systematic cleansing of the antrum, by means of the douche, Avill often be found to serve an excellent purpose in these cases, tbough as a matter of course the local conditions may not ahvays be such that we can resort to this procedure. Acute Diffuse Mastoid Osteitis.—This variety of mastoid disease in- cludes all the different degrees of intlammation Avhich may deAmlop in a pre- A'iously healthy mastoid process. A Avidespread congestion of the antrum and pneumatic cells represents, therefore, the simplest type. The inflamma- tion may cease spontaneously, or may be arrested by therapeutic interference, Avhen it has reached this stage, and tlie parts may then gradually return to their normal condition. IIoAvever, if the inflammation continue, both the antrum and the pneumatic cells Avill soon be tilled Avith exudation, and Avhatever be the character of this exudation at lirst, it is sure before long to become distinctly purulent. I thiidv it possible that, even after the disease has reached this advanced stage, a s}>ontaueous recoA^ery may still, under favoralfle circumstances, take place, Avithout the formation of an abscess in the bone. I may mention, as one of these favorable circumstances, the sudden escape of part of the exudation, through one of the channels Avhich naturally give passage to tiie mastoid emissary veins, into the soft parts on the side of the neck. It is more likely, hoAvever, that the disease, if left to itself, Avill pass from tliis second stage into a third, Avhich is characterized by the death of some part or parts of the mastoid })i’ocess. Pressure con- tinued beyond a certain period is sure to result in the death of the mucous membrane pressed upon ; and, in the case of the pneumatic cells, the mucous membrane is probably the only source of nourishment Avhich very many of them possess. Hence the death of those bony septa Avhich have been de- l>rived of their ])oriosteal coverings. Softening and disintegration of the hone foUoAv next in order, and, if the pressure continue, Ave may expect the