566 SURGERY OF THE TEETH AND ADJACENT PARTS. or platinum lie only in cases of full upper sets, geuerallj' for elderly persons, wLere long teeth have to be added, which, together with an artitieial gum, make a set of great weight, and liable to overcome the suction-power by which it is held in place. Excessive weight is an objection in upper sets, but has no disadvantage in lower ones, except for very old people. There- fore the material which might be the best for a lower set might be the worst for an upper one. In nearly all cases, save those named above, gold or platinum is much the best, for either partial or full upper dentures. Silver possesses some of the advantages of gold or platinum, and is much cheaper. The objection to it is that it is not as strong, not as durable, and not as easily kept clean. It discolors readily, and in time is eaten up by the acid secretions of the mouth. Aluminum is rarely used. It possesses an advantage over other materials in being the lightest of all known metals, but there has not been sufficient experience with it in dentistry to justify its general use. Tin is a very valuable metal as a base for teeth, especiall}’ for full lower sets. It is a pure metal, not easily oxidized, readily worked, and cpiite durable. For a lower set, where economy is necessary, it has advantages over any other material. It is strong, readily repaii’ed, and can he kept clean without difficulty. Since the discovery of vulcanite, or hard rubber, it has been extensively used as a base for artificial teeth. Its popularity has come from the ease with which an tinskilful dentist can jjut together a useful set of teeth upon it, and its consequent cheapness. Its advantages lie in the readiness with which a tit can he obtained, and (wdien not too, clumsy or bungling) in its being lighter than an}^ metal, anti thus admirably adapted to make sets for the upper jaw. The objections to it are that it is brittle, and, except when great thickness is used, wanting in strength, and continu- ally liable to break down; that it is impossible to repair it and make it as good as new; that, being a non-conductor, it has a constant tendency to inflame the gums, making them soft and spongy; and that it is almost impossible to keep it sweet and clean. The advantage which its lightness gives it for an upper set makes it equally ohjectionable in most cases for a lower one. Recently, celluloid has become a rival of vulcanite. Celluloid is a com- bination of cellulose and camphor, and is of about the same strength, elasticity, and durability as vulcanite, and as easily worked. The only advantage which it thus far seems to possess over vulcanite is in its translu- eency and color, which is a close imitation of that of the natural gum; but this is offset again by the fact that in a little time it loses its color and has a dirty look. It is open to the same objection as vulcanite, in the difficulty of keej^^dng it clean. Artificial teeth require more care than they commonly receive, and so does the mouth while they are being worn. The idea that as soon as the natural teeth are gone and replaced by artificial ones, all care is at an end, is a falla- cious one. More care is required to keep them sweet, and the gums healthy, than the natural teeth would have demanded from the same ]>crson. They ought not to be worn night and day. Any suction plate, whether full or partial, will injure the roof of the mouth, sooner or later, if constantl}^ worn. Ao appliances can be worn in air-tight contact with any part of the human organization continuously, for months and years, without producing injurious absorption. In the mouth, the gums become inflamed, spongy, and diseased, as the result of such contact. This state of things is aggravated by want of cleanliness on the part of the patient. Simply rinsing off a set of teeth does not make them clean. Particles of