INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1012 Causes.—^Metastatic abscess of the pancreas has been recorded as following disease of the testicle, suppuration of the sjiennatic cord, and castration. Portal and Petit give examples of this, and Petit uses them as arguments against the a})plication of the ligature in extir[>ation of tlie testicle. In such cases the immediate cause of tlie abscess is thrombosis, l^mcreatic abscess has also been observed in puerperal peritonitis, and in the bodies of those who have died of ague. Wilks and Moxon speak of having met with sup- puration of the pancreas in the later stages of typhoid fever, pus forming around the gland as well as within it, just in the same way as the salivary glands are aiiected after fevers. A calculus impacted in the pancreatic duct may excite suppuration within the gland. Pournier has recorded the case of an enormous abscess in the head of the pancreas, filled with calculi and giving rise to a localized epigastric swelling. Di-. G. Woodruff Johnston,' in an elaborate paper on “ Calculous Affections of the Pancreatic Ducts,” refers to two other cases of suppuration from the presence of calculi, in one of which an abscess the size of a nut, in the centre of the gland, contained several calculi, and had discharged part of its contents into the stomach througli a hole as large as the thumb. The pancreas may also share in the suppuration of some neighboring part; a perforating idcer of the stomach or duodenum, for example, may be the starting point of the disease in the pancreas ; or a biliaiy calculus or some other morbid condition may give rise to a circumscribed peritoneal abscess, in which the pancreas subsequently l)ecomes involved. SymptoDis.—These are sickness, vomiting of a clear greenish fluid, thirst, faintness, constipation, and epigastric distension accompanied by general feverishness, and afterwards, in all pi-obability, by rigors and sweating. If the collection of pus be large, it may produce symptoms due to pressure on adja- cent organs. If ulceration of the capsule occurs, the pus escapes into tbe stomach, duodenum, or other }»art of the intestine, or into the peritoneum ; and pus will then be discharged through the mouth or anus, or fatal collapse will occur. Abscess of the pancreas has been known to cause, by its pressuie, obliteration of the gall-ducts and of the })ancreatic duct, and, as a result, pale and fatty stools have been voided ; and the pancreatic vein or the pancreatico- duodenal artery^ may possibly be destroyed by it, and then syncope and pallor of the surface, with the other evidences of internal hemorrhage, may be wit- nessed. Obscure symptoms of peritonitis may alone exist. Abscess of the pancreas does perhaps occasionally dry up, and a white, amoi’phous mass is the only remains of the pus to be seen. Even when they run their course, these abscesses are but rarely if ever diagnosed., and if they be diagnosed, surgical treatment does not seem to otter any prospect of relief or cure. Measures directed to the i-elief of urgent symptoms alone appear to be available. If a localized swelling follow the s}miptoms of inflammation of the pancreas, the propriety of an abdominal exploration, followed up by the opening and drainage of the abscess, ought to be seriously considered. V. Abscess in the Omentum and Mesentery.-—An abscess sometimes forms within the substance of the mesentery, or within either the small or large omentum, as part of a general suppurative peritonitis, or in association with a circumscribed jieritoneal abscess. Again, pus sometimes burrows or bursts into the sac of the omentum from a neighboring part or organ. In the History of the War of the Rebellion,® mention is made of a shell-contusion of the abdomen, which was followed by sloughing of the abdominal walls and general ' Amer. Journ. Mod. Sciences, Oct. 1883, p. 421. 2 See case by Dr. Noriuiin Moore, Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xxxiii. p. 189. 3 Op. cit.. Part II., Surg. Vol., p. 24.