244 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. 2 See Fig. 8(31, page 199, supra. ' See Fig. 8G0, page 19S), supra. before resorting to a surgical operation. Let us assume that cataract exists and is fully matured, and that the functional examination of the retina is satisfactory. But only one eye is involved. Monocular cataract, unless trau- matic, is not common, and it is always wise to wait a year or more, to see if the other eye will remain unaftected. If it do, and if the subject be young, an operation may be advisable. In senile cataract, \’\dth one eye still intact, I would emphatically decide against any operation, till incipient lenticular changes had begun in the sound and seeing eye. After that, I should leave it to the choice of the patient, Avhether to wait till it too was nearly or quite blind, or not. It must be remembered that no operation for cataract is free from serious risks. A patient advanced in years, with one good eye, had better endure the inconvenience of one-sided blindness, to which he soon becomes accustomed, than incur the dangers of an extraction. Should all go well, and the best possible result be secured, the sight is so much inferior to that of the other eye, that the patient does not usually appreciate the gain. Should an unforeseen accident occur during the operation, or should disastrous I’eaction follow it, the eye will probably be lost, wdth sympathetic danger to the other. In a young person, with a prospect of long life, and where a less risky procedure may be I’esorted to, one may cautiously advise it for the sake of looks, and to relieve the patient from the inconvenience of a blind side. Another question is, whether if both eyes are blind and ready for operation, it is wise to operate on both at the same sitting. In children it is proper. In adults, as a rule, it is safer to take one at a time, leaving a few days, or longer, between the operations. Still another point of conscience is this. Suppose one eye has been operated on witli success, the patient being able to read w-ell and conduct his business: Is it then advisable to operate upon the other? I would say no, unless at the urgent request of the patient, and after fully ad- vising him of the possible disasters. I shall never forget the case of an old gentleman from one of whose eyes I extracted the lens with perfect success. One week after, at his instigation, I repeated the operation upon the other eye. All went tvell, at the time, and for a few days. Then iridocyclitis set in, from which he lost this eye, and was soon blinded in the other from sym- pathetic ophthalmia. The same thing may happen to an eye not }^et operated on, and not even cataractous, from a painful failure in the first operation. Who, of large experience, has not met with this misfortune? Surgeons and physicians generally have very! trivial notions of the delicacy and serious- ness of cataract operations—an opinion which is confirmed by the publication of successful cases only, as personal advertisements, rather than in the interest of the healing art. Operation by Solution, or the Needle Operation.—There are but two operations now practised for cataract: solution and extraction. The former is appli- cable only to soft and absorbable cataracts, as they are met with in children, and in persons under twenty years. The subject young and healthy, the entire lens involved, and the little patient reasonably tractable, this operation is attended by slight risks and promises well. The pupil is to be well dilated by atropine, and the patient put in a good light, on a lounge, bed, or operating table, and rendered thoroughly insensible with ether; the stop-speculum' is then introduced, and the eye fixed by the large, toothed, fixation forceits^ held by the left hand. The i-ight holds the small stop-needle (Figs. 862, 863), passes it carefully through the cornea, about half way between its centre and external margin, towards the lens capsule, carefull}- watching the point to see when it pierces the latter, and to avoid going deeply into the lens. Then by a quick elevation of the handle, the cornea acting as fulcrum, the capsule is