1129 INGUINAL HERNIA. abdominis, arising from the upjier tliii’d of Ponpart’s ligament, closely skirt- ing the upper part of the deep ring, and separated externally l>y a thin fascia witli the small hypogastric nerves, and with tlie communicating branches of the deep circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries. Internally, the two mus- cles become implanted upon a common tendon, the fibres of tlie transversalis occupying the outer border, Avhile those of the internal olilicpie are implanted upon its surface. This covjoined tendon (d) covers the origin of the rectus muscle, but is continued beyond its outer border in a downward and outward direction to become inserted into the spine and pectineal line of the pul)is, where it blends with the triangular fascia and Gimbernat’s ligament, at the margin of the crural ring ; and it is loosely attached by its deep surface to the transversalis fascia (/), which covers the deep surface of the muscle of that name, and separates it from the sub-peritoneal adipose tissue. If the finger be now pushed behind the internal oblique and transversalis muscular fibres, it will be seen to raise the conjoined tendon (cl) as an oblique border, which can be felt by the finger curving behind the cord to form the lower two-tliirds of the hinder wall of the inguinal canal. On dividing the muscular fibres of tbe transversalis, the arrangement of the fascia prolongeil over the deep ring and spermatic cord is exposed to view. The best view of the deep or internal ring is to be had from within, by making a transverse incision along the fascia above the centre of Poupart’s ligament, and a longitudinal one to join it at the margin of the rectus muscle. Then, on lifting it from its deeper connections, the deep ring will be seen to form an oval opening (see Fig. 1128 6), aljout half or three-quar- ters of an inch above and a little inter- nal to the centre of Pou})art’s ligament. The opening has its long diameter directed u[)wards and inwards, with the inner edge sharp and prominent, and it gives off from its borders a sleeve-like prolongation ovei' the sper- matic cord, called the fascia infan- dibulif07-mis, fascia propria, or fascia spermatica intey-na. The fascia is con- tinuous with the fascia transversalis, as the sleeve of a coat with its body, and it narrows downward in a funnel-like maimer. The vas deferens turns round its lower edge on its way tt> the pelvis, crossing the iliac vessels, while the spermatic nerves and vessels pursue a backward, upward, and inward course. There is thus a somewhat loose inter- val formed on the inner side of tins sleeve-hole, which permits of dilatation under the pressure of a protruding bowel or omentum. And when a rupture is formed, the tightened fascia becomes thickened and stretched, and forms the most common seat of strangulation, either outside of, or in combination with, the sac. Below this, the sac is usually loosely connected with the fascia by adipose tissue. On the inner side of the deep ring, usually })laced within a quarter of an inch, the deep epigastric arterg (Fig. 1127/) ascends inwards towards the umbilicus, to enter the sheath of the rectus, lying in the loose subperitoneal tissue. It is a vessel of considei-ablc size, with a vein on each side of it, and at this point gives off a branch to the cord—the cremasteric— which lies in the cremasteric fibres, supplying them, and anastomosing with Fig. 1128.