827 CONGENITAL PECULIARITIES. are a later acquisition ; and that this reversal of the order of acquisition of parts is in accordance with the principle stated by Mr. Herbert Spencer, that under certain cir- cumstances the direct mode of development tends to be substituted for the indirect. Arterial, Venous, ISTbrvous, and Lymphatic Supply.—The principal arteries which supply the mamma are branches of the long thoracic, internal mammary, and intercostal vessels. They vary much in size, according to the functional condition of the organ, and they, as well as the veins, are usually much enlarged when a large or vascular tumor is present. In operating upon the breast it will he found that the chief arteries enter it at the axillary, upper, and sternal margins, and at its under surface. The veins correspond in great measure to the arteries, and pass principally into the axillary and internal mammary trunks. Around the base of the nipple the veins form a special anastomosis, which is tenned the circulus venosus. The nerves which are distributed to the breasts are cutaneous branches of the anterior and middle intercostal nerves, and these by their union with filaments of the lower cervical nerves constitute a nervous connection with the skin over the breast, in the axilla and inner aspect of the arm, and over the shouMer. The lymphatics of the breast are superficial and deep, and pass, some into the glands of the axilla, some into those in the lower cervical region, and others into those of the mediastinum. It is important to note that the cervical glands may become affected in diseases of the breast without involving the axillary glands, as lymphatics pass directly to the neck, superficial to and beneath the clavicle, and also that the mediastinum and pleura may in tlie same manner become directly involved in disease passing along the lym- phatics. Congenital Peculiarities. Supernumerary Nipples and Mamm.e.—These occur most frequently in the region of the mamnne, hut they are sometimes met with in the axilla, and there are on record four apparently authentic cases, in two of which the supernumerary organ was on the hack, in one over the acromion process, and in one on the outer side of the thigh. There are also at least two cases re- corded in which supernumerary nijiples have lieen situated in the abdominal wall. Numerous individual cases of this malformation have from time to time been reported, but I would especially direct attention to a most full and valu- able paper on the subject by Ih’ofessor Leichtensterm* Dr. J. Mitchell Bruce has also written a most interesting paper on this condition.^ In the same journal Mr. Cameron describes three cases of this deformity, and refers to many others. During a period of two years and nine months. Dr. Bruce himself observed, in the out-patient department of the IIosj)ital for Consumption, Brompton, sixty-one cases of supernumerary nipples or mammaj, and he expresses the opinion that this malformation is much more common than is usually supposed. The following is Dr. Bruce’s general summary of the results of his careful investigations :— (1) Tliat sixty-five cases of su[)ern«merary nipple were observed within a period of three years. (2) That of 315 individuals taken indiscriminately and in succession, 7.619 per cent, presented supernumerary nipples. (3) That 9.11 per cent, of 207 men examined in succession presented supernumerary nipples, and 4.807 per cent, of 104 women. (4) That in the great majority of instances the supernumerary nipple was 1 Virchow’s Arcliiv, Bd. Ixxiii. H. 2. * Journal of Anatomy and Pliysiology, vol. xiii.