FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 98T convenience, bnt will pass on through the whole intestinal tract and be dis- charged per anum. Sometimes they remain for a long time, or throughout the rest of life, without giving rise to any marked discomfort. In other instances, especially if the bodies be pointed, they set up inflammation of the stomach or bowels, cause ulceration of their coats, or pierce them and excite general, or circumscrilied peritonitis; or, after leading to adhesions between viscera and parietes, they may induce parietal abscesses. Occasionally they escape entire through the abdominal Avail, or are remoA^ed by the patient or surgeon after having partially passed through it. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach.-—-As a rule, the first symptoms are Ammit- ing and pain in the epigastrium; succeeded by a sense of Aveight and fulness,, attacks of indigestion, and very possibl}% if the parietes are thin, by the detection, on external mani})nlation, of tlie presence of the foreign body, lliematemesis occasionally occurs, and sometimes acute gastritis. In other instances, after a long period of pain, indigestion, loss of a[)petite, and sense of Aveight or oppression at the pit of the stomach, the patient dies of exhaustion. In some of the reported cases it is quite astounding to observe hoAV many and Avhat large-sized substances have been discovered in the stomach after death, and that, despite their jiresence for months or years, the j^ersons have died from other causes. In some instances, large numbers of pins or needles are said to have been SAvalloAved, and afterAvards eliminated, sejiarately and S]>on- taneoLisly, at diflerent parts of the body ; but such statements, made as they generally have been by hysterical Avomen, must be received Avith caution,* though possibly not Avith such absolute incredulity as tlie statement of the man Avho, having SAvalloAved a half-soA^ereign in gold, asserted positiA^ely that he had expelled it per anum in half-penny and penny pieces. Artificial teeth are the bodies most commonly SAvalloAved by accident, and they are noAV so generally Avorn that I never sutier an amesthetic to be administered Avithout previously ascertaining that the ]iaticnt either does not Avear artificial teeth or tooth-plates, or has removed them. Many of the persons Avho swalloAV foreign bodies, not by accident, are insane or thieves. Jugglers have often SAvallowed them accidentally, and thieves intentionally ; others again have had the sub- stances foi’ced down their throats. Ao articles are so frequently SAvalloAved by thieves as coins, and these usually pass on into the stomach and boAvels Avithout any mishap. Occasionally a thief attempts to get rid of a more bulky booty. There is in the museum of the Middlesex Hospital a s])ecimen shoAving an entire mutton-chop, impacted in the pharynx ojiposite the back of the larynx; death Avas instantaneous. The man had endeavored to Ijolt the morsel Avhole, in a tavern close to the hospital. 'Knives and other steel ami iron Ijodies, Avhen retained for some time in the stomach, undergo a slight degree of solvent action; this has been ])roved by the loss in Aveight of the re- tained bodies, and by the ferruginous staining of the stools. I am aAvare of a case in Avhich a school-boy sAvallowed an aluminum iicncil-casc of telescopic make, cannon-shaped pencil passed 7 • i • 1 7. 11 ^ -I • Die rectum; a, patches of sucli as IS Avorn as a trinket; it Avas swalloAvetl in its erosion. (Hair-size.) Fiff. 1122. * See an interesting paper on tliis subject by Mr. Alban Doran, in St. Bartli. IIosp. Rep., voL xii. pp. 118 ct seq.