246 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. See Fig. 858, page 199, supra. linear extraction is preferable. For this purpose the pupil must be widely dilated, the stop-speculum introduced, and the eye well hxed, the patient being under ether. A broad spear-knife, or keratome (Figs. 865, 866), is passed through the cornea, midway between centre and margin, so as to open the Fig. 864. Figs. 865, 866. Cystotome. Jaeger’s keratomes. chamber by an incision five or six mm. in length. A cystotome (Fig. 867), passed very carefully through this incision, opens the capsule freely. Then while the outer lip is pressed gently back by a small curette (Fig. 868), an- Fig. 868. Paracentesis needle and curette. other is lightly pressed on the opposite side of the cornea, and the lens made to come slowly out in fragments. If discission has previously been practised, or if a traumatic cataract demands this operation, the cystotome is usually not needed at all. Great care must be taken to avoid prolapsus of the iris during this operation. If it occurs, and is not readily reduced with the spud,^ or by gentle closure of the lids and rubbing over the cornea with the finger, aided by eserine, it must be gently drawn out and snipped off close to the cornea. The future welfare of the eye demands that no iris shall be left in the corneal incision ; and this provision applies to all forms of extraction. Graefe’s Operation^ by Modified Linear Extraction. — In senile cataracts., extraction is the only allowable operation. Since the general abandonment of the old corneal-flap method, some form of Graefe’s modified linear extraction is usually adopted. But each one practises the method of the great innovator with his own favorite deviations. This operation necessitates an iridectomy, which is a mutilation much to be regretted. But as its advantages more than compensate for the resulting deformity and less perfect vision, it should be accepted. The unanimous opinion of operators is that an incision at or a little in front of the sclero-corneal junction, is safer than one farther back and very close to the iris, as originally practised. Prof. Arlt, and a few others, still prefer to cut out under the conjunctiva, so as to get a protecting flap from it. The tendency, however, is to come out more in the cornea, and two methods are practised in which the deviation from the original operation is very great. My own experience leads me to operate about as follows; I greatly prefer not to give ether, and only resort to it with extremely nervous or cowardly patients. The best preparation for this operation is no preparation, taking the patient in his usual health, and without waiting for him to work himself up into a mental stew of anxiety. As the patient must keep his bed for a few