DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 325 procedure which is very commonly employed, but which is, as I believe, objectionable. I refer to the instillation of warm laudanum and sweet oil into the external auditory canal, a remedy which is widely recommended by physicians in all cases of pain in the ear. This procedure does indeed, in some instances, diminish the pain, but it accomplishes this in an illegitimate manner, if I may so express myself. It deadens the nervous sensibility of the inhamed parts, but it does not arrest or diminish the inflammation. On the contrary, both the oil and the alcohol in the laudanum tend rather to increase the inflammation: the former, by reason of the numerous germs of vegetable mould which it contains, and which may quickly take root in the inflamed tissues ; the latter, by reason of its well-known irritating properties. In the majority of cases of acute inflammation of the middle ear, no other measures beside those which I have described will he found necessary for the restoration of the affected region to a condition of health. In a few cases, liowever, we And it desirable to resort to other expedients and remedies. Tims, for example, the discharge may show little or no tendency to diminish, although a period of two or three weeks may have elapsed since it first made its appearance, and although the most careful douching may have been practised. Perhaps the most common cause of this persistent discharge is what I might term a relaxed condition of the mucous membrane of the mid- dle ear; its bloodvessels being dilated and paralyzed, and the surrounding tissues being infiltrated with serum and lymplioid cells. Such a mucous membrane needs the stimulating ettects of nitrate of silver, and the problem which we have to solve is, how to bring it in contact with the diseased parts eflectively and safely. If there is a large opening in the drum-membrane, the task is a very easy one. By aid of the douche and of inflations with a Politzer hag, we can usually remove the greater part of the secretions accu- mulated in the drum-cavity. A few drops of the solution are next to be in- stilled into the auditoiy canal, the head of the patient being turned to one side in such a manner as to favor the descent of the fluid to the inner end of the meatus ; and then, after the solution has become warmed by the heat of the surrounding parts—that is, after the la[)se of two or three minutes—sufficient pressure should he nnule upon the orifice of the canal to force the fluid con- tained ill it to find its way into the affected drum-cavity, and perhaps also into the Eustachian tube and other outlying parts. While the pressure is being applied, the patient should ho requested to perform the act of swallow- ing three or four times in succession, as the entrance of the remedial solution into the middle ear will thereby he materially facilitated. In cases of compara- tively recent origin, weak solutions of nitrate of silver will usually lie found sufficiently effective. If the perforation is as large as one-half of a milli- metre in diameter, we may use, with ])ei-fect safety, solutions of from five to thirty grains to the ounce of water. I have rarely found it desirable to use a stronger solution than one containing five grains to the ounce. If tlie per- foration is quite small, perhaps no larger than a small jnn-hole, it is better to use a still weaker solution—one, for instance, that contains only two or three grains to the ounce. On the other hand, in cases in which the perforation measures as much as three millimetres in diameter, and the mucous mem- brane of the inner wall of the tympanum appears to l)c much swollen and congested, I frequently introduce a slender probe, upon whose knobbed end a bead of pure nitrate of silver has Ijeen fused, and pass it liglitly over all the mucous membrane that is within reach. A single such ajiplication will sometimes arrest the discharge as if by magic, and the swelling and con- gestion then disappear gradually without any further therapeutic interference. If the perforation is very small, it is not an easj' matter to bring our reme-