983 FALSE ANUS. closure of the external opening, which would lead to partial or complete intestinal obstruction. (2) To diminish or remove the obstruction caused by the eperon. {a) Compression of the eperon by Desault’s plan, Avhich consisted in the introduction into tlie two ends of the bowel of long tents, so as to dilate the lower part of the bowel and efface the angular projection between it and the upper. Desault placed also a plug of lint in the external aperture, to prevent the escape of fecal matter, and administered laxatives and clysters, lie per- fectly cured a sailor b}^ this means. Larrey successfully adopted this plan, as did Scarpa with partial success. The Dublin method consisted in using a “pro[)eller,” which was introduced into the ends of the bowel, and which, whilst it retained the anterior wall of the bowel against the abdominal parietes, pressed back the eperon away from tliern.^ (6) Perforation of the Eperon.—Schmalkalden, in an inaugural dissertation published at Wittemberg, in 1798, recommended tlie passage of a ligature through the base of the eperon, upon which traction was to he made so as gradually to cut through the tissues. Dr. Physiek,^ of Philadelphia, em- ployed a similar process. Dupuytren,^ in Ma}% 1813, passed a seton through the base of a very prominent eperon, in a case in which the two ends of the bowel were lying parallel to each othei’. lie gradually increased the size of the seton until at length the whole depth of the eperon was cut through. A free communication was thus established between the two ends of tlie bowel; but as comjlete cure did not forthwith result, he cut away portions of the eperon with scissors, set up peritonitis, and the man died. He after- wards abandoned this mode of treatment. Such a proceeding is only appli- cable where perfect adhesion has occurred between the two serous layers of the coats forming the eperon: where this has not occurred, the transit of the needle and thread would cause a double perforation of the peritoneal cavity. (c) Eestruction of the Eperon by means of the Enterototne.—This is the method of Dupuytren ; the enterotome devised by him (Pig. 1118) consists of three })ieces, viz., two branclies, which lock like the blades of a midwifery foi’ceps, and a Fig. 1118. Fig. 1119. Dupnytren’s enterotome. screw, whereby the handles can be approximated or separated. The male blade is received, to the depth of a line, into a groove in the female blade. One blade is introduced into one part of the bowel, and the other blade into the other end of the liowel, to a depth varying from one to four inches. The blades are then locked, and approximated and held together by the screw- [•iece of the enterotome. The effects of this instrument are to augment the length of the parallelism of the two ends of the intestine and of their inter- mediate se[)tum, and to bring about adhesion of the sides of the two pieces of bowel, and then complete division of the parts compressed by the teeth of the blades. The instrument falls off al)Out the eighth day, and with it the included portion of the iiitesfinal tissue, in a dry, parchment-like state. * Sen l)ulilin Med. Press, vol. xiii. ji. 305. ” Meiiioire sur les anus centre nature, p. 28(j. ^ See Dorsey, Elements of Surgery, 1813.