647 (EDEMA OF THE LARTNX. been highly recommended.* Mercurial inunction may be substituted, if swallowing be impracticable, and may hasten the specific action of the drug when calomel is given internally. Durham^ reports the best results in burns from the administration of preparations of antimony and aconite, in small doses frequently repeated ; the intervals being but fifteen minutes for the first hour or so, and being then lengthened according to the effects pro- duced. Anodynes may be given by the mouth or hypodermically, as indi-' cated. Pellets of ice in the mouth, ad libitum., add much to the comfort of the patient, and tend to repress inflammation. jNIilk may be given as nourishment in most instances. If dysphagia prevent deglutition, the rectum must be depended on for the introduction of nourishment. (Edema of the Larynx. (Edema of the larynx, long incorrectly called oedema of the glottis, for the rima glottidis is rarely involved, is an infiltration of fluid or semi-fluid pro- ducts into the submucous connective tissue of the upper or of the inner sur- face of the larynx, or of either surface of the epiglottis. It is rarely an oedema in the strict sense of the word—a hydrops, that is to say, or a passive accumulation of serum—but it is rather an oedematous infiltration accompany'- ing an inflammatory process by which it has been occasioned, whatever may have been the origin of the inflammation. Thus, the infiltration may be serous, lymphous, sero-sanguinolent, sanguinolent, sero-purulent, or purulent. The serous effusion occurs in cases marked by great rapidity of morbid action, and the purulent in cases of slower and less violent inflammation. Hemor- rhagic effusions are sometimes instantaneous, as in contused and other wounds. Lymphous effusions are usually gradual. The oedema may be acute or may be chronic. Sometimes the process is idiopathic, sometimes traumatic, and often deuteropathic. However occasioned, the effusion diminishes the space for breathing, so that the process of respiration becomes first impeded and then obstructed; and if subsidence of the effusion does not take place spontaneously, or by prompt surgical interference, rapid apnoea by sulibca- tion may ensue, or slow aimtea by congestion of the brain or lungs, death taking place within a few hours or a few days as may be. The pathology of acute (ndema of the larynx was not understood before the ]3resent century ; and many cases, among them, most })robably, the fatal cases of (General Washington and of the Empress Josephine, were looked upon as cases of croup, the subjective symptoms of which are closely similar. But in 1808, a remarkable paper by Bayle® was presented to tlie Society of the Parisian School of Medicine, fully discriminating the malady from all others, and this led the way to its thorough recognition, and to its prompt and intelli- gent treatment. Impediment to free circulation in the venules of the laryn- geal mucous membrane, whether from inflammatory process, mechanical obstruction, or })aralysis of vessels, is the immediate physical cause of the effusion as in the -tase of many other serous accumulations—the remoter cause Ijeing idiopathic or deuteropathic inflammation, or inechauical or sur- gical injury. Mechanical impediment to respiration by the tumefaction of the tissues hardly represents the entire pathology of the dyspnoea in laryngeal cedema. * WalLace, Lancet, 1833, vol. i. p. 6.57 ; Bevan, Duh. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Feb. 1860 ; Sloane, Brit. Med. .Tourn., Jan. 14, 1866 ; Croly, ibid., .June 16, 1866 ; and others. ^ 0[). cit., vol. i. p. 700. * Memoire sur I’oedfeiue de la glotte on angine laryngee oe<leniateuse.