INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. ® System of Surgery, 7th ed., vol. ii. p. 147. of the kidney,” there was a rent in the back of the kidney, which had opened a branch of the renal vein and produced free bleeding beneath the investing tibrous capsule. One case reported by Stanley,* namely Vincent’s, was not one of rupture of the ureter; a large irregular aperture was found in the pelvis of the kidney. Stanley’s other^ case ended in recovery, and the precise nature of the injury was therefore not ascertained; but there is nothing in tlie account of the case to point to the ureter, rather than to the kidney, and as rupture of the kidney is so much less rare than rupture of the ureter, the presumption is in favor of the former. Thus Poland’s own case is the only one of the six in wliich there was a rupture of the ureter, as distinct from the pelvis of the kidney; it is, as far as I am aware, the only known case in which a sub- parietal rupture of the ureter has been proved. R. Harrison^ briefly records a case of “ rupture of the ureter C|uite close to the kidney,” that is, of the pelvis of the kidney ; no details of the autojisy are given, though it is stated that the patient died the next day. “ Some blood-stained urine was removed by the catheter, but beyond this there was nothing requiring any special comment as indicating the full extent of the damage.” The prog7iosis in rupture of the kidney, its pelvis, or ureter, is unfavorable, though less so than in rupture of the other abdominal organs. There are many cases published of recovery after injury, in which there is reason to believe that the kidney has been ruptured, and others in which healing has preceded death from other causes. The fatal result may be brought about early by collapse, hemorrhage, or peritonitis; or at a later date by pyremia, cystitis, hectic fever, or exhaustion from abscesses excited by urinary extrava- sation, or by broken-down tissues or blood-clot; or death may occur from peri- tonitis or collapse set up by the bursting of the contents into the peritoneal cavity, through a sloughing of the limiting membrane of the abscess. If the ureter becomes permanently obliterated after injury, the kidney becomes de- stroyed, and death may be caused by suppuration of the organ. Injuries to the kidney, or to its pelvis, are likely to be complicated with injury to the peritoneum, or to lie themselves complications of various kinds of fracture of the adjacent vertebrte. Bupture of the Pancreas.—The pancreas is rarely ruptured. There are cases recorded by S. Cooper,* Le Gros Clark,® and Devergie ;® and Travers^ had under his charge, at St. Thomas’s Hospital, a woman who when drunk was knocked down by the wheel of a stage coach, which did not pass over her. She lived a few hours ; several ribs were fractured, the liver was lacerated, much blood had been eftused, and the pancreas was completely torn through transversely. Ogston* has also recorded a case in which pieces of the pancreas, together with other organs, protruded through a lacerated wound of the parietes. In all these cases the rupture of the pancreas was associated with rupture of other internal organs, and in all death occurred within a few hours. It is im})OSsible therefore to ascribe symptoms specially to the injury of the pancreas, and there is no case on record in which Benjamin Bell’s® anticipation of what might happen from division of the pancreatic duct, has been realized, viz., greatly impaired digestion and intra-peritoneal collections of pancreatic juice requiring removal by the surgeon. ' Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. ^ Ibid. 3 Lectures on the Surgical Disorders of the Urinary Organs, p. 328. ^ Lancet, Deo. 31, 1839, p. 48(i. 5 Lectures on the Principles of Surgical Diagnosis, etc., p. 298. London, 1870. 6 Med. Legale, 2e ed., t. ii. p 94. ’ Lancet, vol. xii. p. 384. 1827. ® Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review, vol. xxxix. 1807.