INJURIES OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 105 Fourth Pair; Pathetic Nerves.—Owing to the protected position en- joyed by these nerves, they seem never to he injured; at least I have not been able to find a record of any such accident. Fifth Pair; Trifacial Nerves.—These nerves not uncommonly suffer in liead-injuries, and usually in conjunction with lesions of some other cranial nerve.‘ All the branches of the nerve are rarely involved, but more than one are usually affected. A man was rendered completely insensible by a severe blow upon the left side of tbe bead, inflicted by a heavy piece of timber. Much blood was lost from the ears, nose, and mouth. Regaining consciousness upon tbe following day, right hemiplegia and ptosis of the left eyelid were noted. Seven weeks afterwards, upon admission to St. George’s Hospital, he complained of severe pain upon tlie left side of tlie head ; tlie ptosis persisted, and there was a purulent discharge from the left ear. The hemiplegia had almost entirely disappeared. Tliere was total loss of sensibility in all parts supplied by the left fifth nerve; he could neither taste nor feel upon the left side of the tongue, except at its root; a probe was not felt in the nostril of that side ; and cutaneous sensi- bility was absent over the whole left side of the face, upper part of the head, etc. Gradual improvement ensued, but the cornea became opaque, owing, perhaps, to the eye remaining partly open and without sensation, thus allowing foreign bodies to lodge within the lids and there remain a constant source of irritation. He could close the eye when directed to do so.^ Another interesting case is on record, where, after a severe injury, both sensation and motion of the right side of the face were seriously impaired. In about two weeks, the conjunctiva of the right eye became chemosed; the cornea had lost all sensibility; it was cloudy, and presented, at its lower part, appearances of an interlamellar abscess. Soon slight ulceration comnrenced over the site of the abscess, extending until, between two and three months after the injury, the cornea gave way with a loss of only the aqueous humor. The cornea finally cicatrized, and the patient could see through its upper segment. Ultimately, both sensation and motion of the right side of the face were restored.® Where recovery ensues, tbe paralysis Itas probably been due to liemor- rbagic or inflammatory deposit; tvbere tlie loss of function is permanent, tearing of tbe nerve, or permanent pressure by displaced bone, is probalfiy tbe cause. Wby in some cases corneal ulceration takes place, while in others it does not, is a much vexed rpiestion which it is beside our present purpose to attempt to elucidate.'* Sixth Pair; Abducent Nerves.—This nerve being small, and lodged in a groove upon the uptper portion of the petrous ])art of the temporal lione, is liable to be torn across in fractures implicating this part of the base of the skull. Paralysis of tins nerve is apt to coexist with a similar condition of some of the other cerebral nerves. Recovery has ensued in several such cases, where not only the abducent nerve has Ijeeu allected, but where other cere- bral nerves were at the same time paralyzed. Aran reported a case where, after a violent blow upon the head, the right abducent nerve was coiu})letely paralyzed. He considered that the lesion ' Tims Hulke (Lancet, Nov. 30, 1878, p. 7C9) reports a case in whicli, after death, the right portio dura and tlie fifth and second nerves were found to have been torn. 2 I.ee, Med. Times and Gazette, new series, vol. iv. p. 240. 1852. ^ Richard, Gaz. des Ilopitaux, 1844. I quote this case on the authority of Hewett (op. cit., vol. i. p. 610), havin;r failed to gain access to the original report. '• See Dixon, Med.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. xxviii. p. 373 et seq.