1075 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. sities of the case may demand. If this should be done under antiseptic precautions, I am sure that much suffering will be relieved, and many valuable lives saved that would otherwise be lost. By all means let antiseptics be used with all the Listerian precautions, if by so doing surgeons may be able more readily to induce the physicians to follow Sims’s teaching. Cholecystectomy. In rare cases in which the condition of the coats of the gall-bladder makes it unsafe to leave the organ in the body, its removal should be undertaken. Langenbuch, of Berlin, on opening the abdomen found the gall-bladder hypertrophied and adherent to the neighboring tissues, and containing a large number of stones, some of them adherent to the walls and threatening perforation. The viscus was emptied by a Pravaz’s syringe, the liver was raised, and the colon and small intestines were pushed down by a sponge, and then the gall-bladder was separated from the liver by a few touches of the knife. The cystic duct was thus laid free and was ligatured in two places with silk thread, and divided between the ligatures. Great care should be taken not to wound the liver in detaching the gall-bladder, and catgut ligatures should not be used for the cystic duct. Tjangenbuch’s patient made a good recovery, though sbe had previously undergone nephrectomy for floating kidney. [A second case 0})erated on by Langenbuch has also terminated successfully.] S. W. Gross has removed the gall-bladder for calculi, and on tbe same patient be performed nephrectomy for cancer. It is not wonderful that the patient died on tbe second day of peritonitis: with a malignant disease and the shock of a neplirectomy simultaneously performed, the cholecystectomy had hardly a fair chance. Surgical Diseases of the Kidneys. Renal Calculus.—There is but a step between the formation of gravel and of stone in the kidney. If the solid substances which arc usually in a state of solution in tbe urine become excessive, so as to bo deposited as crystals, and if these crystals are carried out of tlie system with tbe urine, we have the condition of gravel. If these crystalline forms are cemented together by a little mucus or blood-clot, and are afterwards added to by fi’esh depositions Irorn the urine, we have a small calculus, wbicli may either be passed ofl' with tbe urine, causing more or less renal colic in its transit along the ureter, or may remain behind in one of the calyces, or in the pelvis of the kidney, there to grow by fresh accretion until it attains a size altogether in excess of anything which can pass along the ureter. Calculi may originate in the uriniferous tubes, or in one of the calyces of the kidney ; but when started into being in tbe tubes, the calculus grows into importance in a calyx, or in the ])elvis of the kidney. Tbe most common form of renal calculus is tbe uric-acid, the next most common is the oxalate-of-lime. These substances, being but very spariuglv soluble, are the most likely to be precipitated fi-om the urine ; but carbonate of lime, phosjibate of lime, a mixture of phosjibate of lime and tbe ammouio- rnagiiesian phosphate—that is, tbe fusible calculus—cystine, xanthine, and finally urate of ammonium or the mixed urates, are found occasionally, though rarely, either as tbe nucleus or chief constituent of renal stones. Alter-