917 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. may be transfixed throug'b and tlirongh, and the viscera wounded at many points, and lu) bad conse(piences follow. Every work on wounds of the intes- tine contains tbe records of one or more such cases. If effusion occurs into the peritoneal cavity, the prognosis is certain death, except under the condition of slight and slow extravasation. If the effusion is external, death may occur from peritonitis or marasmus ; or recovery may follow with or without a fecal fistula or false anus. Ilitfuse peritonitis, once established, is fatal; circumscribed peritonitis, when localized in the immediate seat of the wound, is often protective only, not destructive. Whether there l>e effusion of intes- tinal contents or not, hemorrhage may occur into the peritoneal cavity, and death may follow in a short time from the loss of blood, or from peritointis caused by the clotted blood acting as a foreign body ; or the clot may be absorbed or become encysted, and the patient recover. Treatment.—Where no extravasation wliatever occnrs, the case must lie treated as one of simple penetrating wound of the pai'ietes. If feces escajie, the wound must be left open, and in as dependent a position as [tossible. Entire rest, and abstinence from food, from purgatives, and from all forms of drink, must be enforced. Thirst must be slaked li}' small fragments of ice, or by submerging the patient in the continuous warm bath. Opium or mor- phia must be given, either by the rectum or as a subcutaneous injection, to allay pain and check jieristaltic action. It is still an open and unsettled cpiestion whether it is proper to enlarge the wound ■with the object of ajiply- ing sutures to the wounded bowel. If effusion has not taken place, and the visceral wound is small, such a step could but add to the danger by the dis- tiirbance necessitated by the search for the Avound, which might lie unsuc- cessful in the end. If effusion has taken place some time befoi-e the patient is seen, inflammation Avill probably have set in, and the }iarts will have become glued together, or will have passed beyond the reach of re}>air. Again, after transfixion of the belly, if the Auscera are Avounded in several places, inter- ference is hopeless, if not mischievous. But Avhen there is clear or good })i’e- sunpitive evidence of extraATisation, from a single or at most a double wound— or if the wound in the intestine can be seen through the external opening— there can be no (piestion that the Avisest plan is to close the \fisceral AA'Ound by suture. l)r. Utis^ remarks:— “ Tluit enteromqiliy is the jiroper treatment for jiunctured or incised Avounds of the intestines, with protrusion, is now (juestioned by none; tluit in similar wounds, witli- out protrusion of tlie small intestine, and of parts of the large intestine covered by the peritoneum, it is proper to eidarge the external wound and find the wounded part, and secure it by enterorraphy, a mass of affirmative evidence has been brought forward. The experience of the war does not enable ns to demonstrate the benetits of applying the same principles to shot-wounds but he adds (p. 128), “already interference con- trasts favorably with the do-notliing system. Keflection . . . leads unavoidably, in the writer’s opinion, to a conviction of the iiropriety of incising the abdominal Avail Avhen necessary, in order to expose and scav up the AVOunded gut concealed Avithin the cavity, whether divided by a cutting instrument or by shot. The obstacles to success are obvious ; but it is a mortal peril Avhich demands an extreme remedy.” Should jieritonitis occur, the treatment approprhite for that complication must be followed. (Tuvshot tcounds of the stomach and intestine, are not necessarily attended Avith ertusion iitto the abdomen, nor externally through tlte Avound. When ertusion does occur, it ma}' be cither primary, or secondary, oAving to tbe separation of the sloughs along the track of the bullet. The period of the > Med. and Surg. Hist., etc., Part II., Surg. Vub, p. 124.