526 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. are loosened, and possibly the submaxillary lymphatic glands may be enlarged, as they always are in the later stages of the disease. Having treated several cases of epithelioma of the gum, I am convinced that nothing but very free removal offers the patient a chance of permanent relief. It is impossible to say how deeply in the jaw the epitheliomatous growth may have penetrated, and therefore it is better not to be content with simply cutting away the alveolus with bone-forceps, but to remove a piece of the whole thickness of the jaw, well beyond the disease. It is true that this leads to a permanent deformity, which one ivould gladly avoid; but to omit it is to almost court failure, with probable infiltration of the lymphatics, and a rapid termination. I have elsewhere^ reported the case of a man, aged sixty- eight, from whom I removed the horizontal ramus of one side of the jaw, together with part of the fioor of the mouth, for extensive epithelioma, ivho notwithstanding his age made a good recovery, and who presented himself two years afterwards in perfect health. Whereas in cases in which I have been con- tent to remove the alveolus only, I have been often disappointed in the results. Any enlarged lymphatic glands beneath the jaw, may readily be removed at the same time, and thus an additional chance of immunity will be afforded. A remarkable example of extensive and successful removal of epithelioma of the lower jaw, was lately seen by me in a military man aged fifty-three, from whom Dr. Partridge, of Calcutta, had, in December, 1879, removed the left horizontal ramus with the submaxillaiy glands. Pecurrence taking place at the chin, the right horizontal ramus and the glands were removed in March, 1880, by Dr. McCleod, also of Calcutta, and the patient returned to England, where I saiv him in July, 1881, in perfect health; the parts were cpiite sound, there being one and one-half inches of space between the two halves of the jaw, and his only complaint being of a sense of tightness and want of saliva. He was alive and well in June, 1883. Diseases of the Jaws. Inflammatory deposit may take place in the loicer jaio as a consequence of tootli irritation, and may rapidly lead to great swelling and deformity. When the tooth wdiich has excited the inflammation is extracted, the swell- ing slowly subsides, but often some deformity exists for months ; and it seems probable that some at least of the cases of fibroma found in the interior of the lower jaw, have originated in inflammatory deposit kept up and irritated by the presence of the fangs of carious teeth. Alveolar abscess occurs in both jaws as the result of inflammation con- nected with the teeth, and originating in the socket. The earliest symptom is pain, with slight protrusion of the tooth, due to the inflamed condition of the membranes covering the tooth and lining the alveolus. If not relieved by judicious leeching or incision, matter forms in the socket, and either finds its way out by the side of the tooth, which is necessarily loosened, or, after causing great pain for a day or two, perforates the alveolus, and finds its Avay beneath the gum. This is the ordinary form of “ gum-boil,” which breaks spontaneously, after causing much sutfering, unless previously relieved by a timely incision. The propriety of an early, free incision through the gum, down to the alveolus, is strongly to be insisted on, since necrosis and consequent exfoliation of large poi’tions of the jaw not unfrequently follow neglect or postponement of the operation. Extraction of the tooth alone is not sufficient, ' Lancet, vol. ii., 1880=