BILIARY FISTULA. 959 Morris, of Petwortli, and quite recovered. Murchison* collected 70 cases of biliary fistula having this origin, though the situation of the external opening was not the same in all cases. The number of gall-stones discharged by the fistula has vai’ied from one to six hundred; when there is only one, it may be as large as a hen’s egg, but when there are several they are usually small and smoothly facetted by attrition. Tlie calculi may be discharged almost as soon as the opening is formed, or not for years afterwards. (5) Distension of the gall-bladder with purulent or muco-purulent matter may lead to adhesion, and the subsequent discharge of the contents externally. A typi- cal case of this sort is to be found in the Philosophical Transactions for August and September, 1738,^ entitled, “An obstruction of the biliary ducts and an impostumation of the gall-bladder dischai’ging upwards of eighteen quarts of biliary matter in tiventy-five da}"s, without any apparent defects in the animal functions.” Four months before death jaundice came on, fol- lowed by pain in the right hypochondrium and an inflammatory tumor, which went on to suppuration, the abscess being opened with a lancet. On post-mortem examination, a large sac was found shut oft' from the general peritoneal cavity, and communicating with the gall-bladder which was itself distended. The fistula may communicate with the liver-substance, with the gall- bladder, or with one of the larger bile-ducts; when the result of injury, it is more frequently with the liver; when the result of disease, it is commonly with the gall-bladder. The external opening may be over the fundus of the gall-bladder, to the left of the median line, in the inguinal region, in any part of the right hypochondrium, or at the umbilicus. To the umbilicus it is directed by the suspensory ligament of the liver. Dr. Burney Yeo has recorded a case in which over one hundred gall- stones Avere spontaneously discharged through a fistula in the hypogastrium five inches below the umbilicus. A case is published in the Gazette dcs Ilopitaux,^ in which two biliary calculi were removed from above the clitoris, where they were encysted in the subcutaneous tissue. In one case, ivliere the lung as well as the liver had been wounded by the same shot, the fistulous o[)ening was below the sca|)ula on the right side; in another case it was at the lower part of the sternum on the left side; and in a ease dcs(‘ribed by Ilennen, it ivas between the eighth and ninth ribs on the right sitle, tivo and a half inches from the spines of the vertel)ra3. The fistulous channel may be many inches long, and very cii’cui- tous in its course. In rare cases there are two or more openings at a distance from one another. Symptoms.—The discliarge from these fistulre is not always pui’e liile. More frequently, perhaps, it is pus, or muco-pus; oi’ these mingled more or less largely with bile or blood. The daily quantity Avhieh drains away has been found to vary from eight ounces to two pints. If the cystic duct is obstructed, no bile can flow by the fistula; if the common duct is occluded, the jaundice which precedes the fistula generally disappears after an opening is established, though even then no bile will pass oft’ by the bowel; in rare cases the gall-ducts are i)atent, and bile escapes botli by the fistula and with the stools. When the amount of bile lost is great, the patient rapidly loses flesh and strength, and dies marasmic. During tlie formation of a fistula due to gall- stone, there is often great suft'ering, especially whilst the calculus is passing and biliary matter is accumulating behind it; Imt the patient ivill soon recover, and may enjoy good health long Ijefore the fistula closes. Indeed, * Lectures on Diseases of tlie Liver. ^ Loc. cit., 8 Oct., 1846. 2 Op. cit., vol. xl. p. 317.