MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS OF THE EAR. 351 another matter; although even here, as I have said before, it is easily possi- ble to dehne rather coarsely the parts of the temporal bone affected. If we consider for a moment the solid, masonry-like construction of the temporal bone, we can scarcely resist the conclusion that, when a blow upon the top, back, or opposite side of the head is followed by any decided symptom what- ever in the ear (as, for instance, bleeding, a watery discharge, or even simply pain), a fracture or a diastasis must have taken place in the corresponding temporal bone. A mere jar of the head is not competent to produce a hemor- rhage from the external auditory canal. On the other hand, an actual stretch- ing of the soft parts to such a degree as to tear one or more bloodvessels, is not, under such circumstances, physically possible in the vicinity of the drum- membrane, unless at the same time there shall have been an actual giving way of some part of the surrounding arch of bone. Such a laceration of the parts is sure to be followed by inflammation, and this inflammation will be proportionate to the degree of damage done to the parts. A profuse, and sometimes long-continued watery discharge from the middle ear, by way of the external auditory canal, is a well-known characteristic of an ordinary, non- traumatic, acute inflammation of the middle ear, provided that an opening has been established, either by natural or by artiflcial means, in the membrana tympani. In the severer cases of fracture of the temporal bone, the drum- membrane is very apt to be lacerated, and it is in precisely these severe cases of fracture that we encounter this symptom of a watery discharge from the ear. In estimating, therefore, the diagnostic value of a watery discharge from the ear, in cases of fracture of the temporal bone, I am disposed to go no farther tlian this : it aftbrds a good measure of the degree of damage done to the temporal bone and contiguous parts. It is by no means neces- sarily a fatal symptom, for I have known several snch cases to recover. I should j)erhaps not be justifled in insisting that all of this watery discharge came from the middle ear and parts bordering upon it. Such, however, apjtears to me to Ije the more rational belief. The treatment ordinarily employed to arrest an acute inflammation of tlie middle ear, is the treatment that can best be adopted for the relief of the in- flammation caused by the fracture. I do not see why it may not, in certain cases, turn the scale in favor of recovery. Miscellaneous Conditions op the Ear. In our examinations of tlie ear, we often encounter conditions which in part represent the final results of some of the diseases descriljed in tlie preceding chapters, and in part ai’e quite distinct from those diseases. It is, therefore, simply as a matter of convenience that I bring some of the more important of them together here under the title of Miscellaneous Conditions. Atrophy of the MexMbrana Tympani.—The membrana tympani may un- dergo atrophy through the operation of two very different causes; and, in harmony with these etiological differences, we may distinguish two well- marked types of atrophy. In one form, continued atmospheric pressure upon the outer surface of the membrane, without an equally great counter-pressure (also atmospheric) uj)on tlie inner side, ]iroduces a jirogressive, symmetrically distributed, and sometimes very marked atro})hy of all its constituent parts. The inextensible, radial fibres of the substantui pvopi'ia undergo absorption, in well-marked cases, and as a result we may find the drum-membrane spread out, like a thin film, over the long process of the anvil, the head of the stirrup, and the inner wall of the tympanic cavity. In the slighter grades,