781 MOTOR DISTURBANCES OF THE INTRINSIC LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. line of safety may be in the direction of prophylactic tracheotomy. In the presence of actual suffocative apnma, prompt incision into the a-ir-passage (meso-chondric laryngotomy) may be the sole means of averting death. In the presence of apparent death by apnoea, the fleeting life may he recalled by immediate incision, and the institution of artificial respiration. I’aralysis.—Paralysis of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx may he due to two groups of lesions: firsts to lack of innervation, whether from disease or injury at the nerve centre, disease or injury of nerve filaments, or compres- sion at the nerve centre or along some portion of the nerve tract; second, to disease or injury of the muscular fibius, or to infiltrations between them. Apparent paralysis may be due to mechanical restraint—most frequently an anchylosis at the crico-arytenoid articulation, whether true or false. Para- lysis may be functional or organic. Functioned -parali/sis needs little comment here. It occurs chiefly in hyperiesthetic and hysterical subjects, is almost exclusively bilateral, and is usually readily amenable to measures medicinal and psychical. Organic p><^'i'(dgsis may be unilateral or bilateral, and either form may be partial (paresis) or complete. It ma}^ be in the domain of either the superior or inferior laryngeal nerve, or it may involve both. It may be limited to the larynx, or it may be associated with paralysis of the pharynx or palate, or with regional paralysis, or with general paralysis. Thus paraly- sis in the domain of the recurrent laryngeal nerve may be part and parcel of so-called bulbar paralysis, of disseminated cerebro-spinal sclerosis, of progres- sive muscular atrophy, of tabes dorsalis, or of intra-cranial lesions due to liemor- rhage, effusion, gumma, tubercle, or neoplasm, in the domain of the origin of the eighth pair of nerves, at the floor of the fourth ventricle. Tracing the functional activity of the structures to which the terminal extremities of the cranial nerves are distributed, the location of the lesion may be inferred with considerable accuracy, and its extent determined within limits of great probability. I’aralysis in the domain of the superior laryngeal nerve is most frequent after diphtheria. ITnilateral paral_ysis is usually due to local dis- ease or injury, whether cerehral or peripheral. Bilateral paralysis is usually due to cerebral lesion—to central systemic poisoning, whether septic (diph- theria, pyiemia) or toxiemic (plumbism, nicotism, for example), or to bilateral injury. It is the occasional result of unilateral pressure,* Dr. .Johnson’s^ explanation being that the irritation conveyed by the afferent filaments to the centres, sets up such disturbance there as to inqiress the efferent fila- ments of both sides, and thus cause bilateral paralysis. That section or other injury of the recurrent nerve would entail a^dionia, was known to Galen, who reported® one ease of an infant attacked with cervical adenitis, and who lost part of its voice, having fallen into the hands of an ignorant person who cut one of these nerves; and another, in which the section was made upon both sides, the person remaining permanently mute. Bilateral paralj'sis with conse(|ueut aphonia occasionally follows severe operations in the cervical region, such as extirpation of the thyroid gland. When due rather to severe handling of the nerve than to actual sec- tion, the paralysis gradually subsides, and voice is regained. Laryngeal ])aralysis, save, perhaps, that following diphtheria, is much more frequent in adults than in children. Stoerk appears to have been the first observer who recognized this condition laryngoscopically. Organic laryn- geal paralysis is most frequently found as a complete [laralysis of the recur- rent nerve, the vocal band remaining immobile in about the same }»osition ' Jolinson, Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. Iviii. p. 20; Baumler, Aroli. f. kliii. Med., 22 Feb. 1867. 2 Transaotioiis International Medical Congress, vol. iii. ]>. 221. London, 1881. ® M6rat, Diet, des Sci. Med., t. xxxiv. p. 285. Paris, 1818.