15 INJURIES OF THE SKULL, At the outset, I wish to emphasize the fact that a fracture of the skull has no inherent danger, over and above similar injuries of other bones; indeed, not nearly as much if we except the peculiar arrangement of its diploic venous channels, which predisposes to purulent infection. I repeat again, a fracture of the skull prr se is not a dangerous injury, and I thus reiterate the statement in order to point out the error, too often made, of concentrating attention upon the fracture instead of upon the concomitant cerebral injuries, and because so much has been written concerning the risk of converting a simple into a compound fracture by incising the integu- ments, when the former presents sym}>toms of cerebral compression, forget- ting that, though making a fracture of the thigh compound, directly imperils the patient’s life, the course of the injury, as far as life is concerned, differs little in compound and simple fractures of tlie skull, provided that intra- cranial inffammation can be avoitled.^ I do not deny that intracranial com- plications may lie aggravated by a reckless admission of air to a }»reviously simple cranial fracture, but I deny that with modern antiseptic precautions the danger of the operation is to be com}iared to the risks of intracranial inffammation from the irritation of depressed fragments of bone, and that an}^ comparison can be justly drawn between a compound fracture of a long bone and one of the skull. I. Fractures of the Vault of the Skull.—Tliese are usually the result of the direct application of force to a limited area of the skull, the bone yielding at the })oint struck. The resultant injury may lie (1) a sinpile fissure, Asdiich is usually not limited to the site of injury, but may extend through several bones and even reach the basis cranii, and (2) a comminution of the bones, which varies in extent, but which, resulting, as it most often does, from vio- lent, concentrated force, is usually pretty much limited to the point of inpiact. Although comminution commonly results from the ap}dication of concen- trated force, occasionally diffuse force will 'i»roduce the same result. Thus, I have examined the skull of a negro which reminded me of the appearance of an egg dropped from a height. The comminution was the most extensive that I have ever seen, and was the result of blows from the liead of another Fig. 816. Fig. 817. Indentation and fissuring of outer table of skull. Fracture of inner table of skull. From the same specimen as fig. SIO. * Pysemia innre commonly follows contusion of bone than it does fracture.