115 DISEASES OF THE SCALP. Abscess.—Abscesses of the scalp may be met with in three situations: 1. In the scalp proper, above the aponeurosis ; 2. In the lax tissue beneath the aponeurosis; and 3. Beneath the pericranium. Abscesses in the first and second situations are circumscribed, but suppuration beneath the aponeurosis is generally ditiuse. Scalp abscesses may be due to many causes, principal among which are contusions, extravasation of blood in the various situations named, retrogressive changes in certain wounds, especially those that have rapidly healed at the surface, the breaking down of syphilitic nodes and of so-called scrofulous deposits, suppurating cysts, and bone afiections. Owing to the tension of the parts, scalp abscesses are apt to be associated with severe local symptoms when acute, and with mueh constitutional disturbance. These acute suppurations are readily diagnosed. A chronic abscess in the scalp may be mistaken for a sebaceous cyst, from which, however, it may be distinguished by its more rapid growth, its pain, its tenderness, its more distinct fiuctuation possildy, and by the fact that it Avould feel to the touch more dense at the peripliery tlian at the centre. A grooved needle, more- over, would clear up all ditficulty. There is a form of superficial abscess, com- mon in young scrofulous children, that usually appears as a secpiela of chronic eczema. These abscesses are small, often multiple, well circumscribed, and covered by very thin and purple integument. They are, as a rule, painless, and associated with little or no constitutional disturbance. They should be opened early ; either by simple puncture, or, better still, by the actual cautery. Tliey sometimes lead to troublesome scrofulous ulcers. Suppuration in the tissue beneath the aponeurosis is apt to assume the character described under cellulitis, although not necessarily of so acute and rapid a course. It is seldom, ho\vever, distinctly chronic. Abscesses beneath the pericranium are difficult to diagnose early, and are generall_y associated with symptoms of bone mischief—necrosis or caries. They Avill be referred to hereafter. !\Ir. Thomas Sniith^ gives an account of a remarkable abscess in a child aged 4 years, that happened to form over a congenital hole in tlie skull, in the upper occipital region. It assumed the form of a small, rounded, fluctuating tumor, that pulsated but was not reducible. At its base the deficiency in the skull could be felt. Other congenital holes could also be felt in tlie })arietal bones. The abscess Avas let alone, and idtimately more or less disappeared. This case aaTII be again alluded to in speaking of “ Malformations of the skull.” Follin and Duj)lay^ allude to the great ditficulty of diagnosing abscesses situated deeply in the temporal fossa and beneath the temporal muscles. The symptoms of such abscesses are most insidious, vague, and often misleading; fluctuation, even if observable Avhen tlie muscle is relaxed, is at once lost Avhen the jaws are clenched. It is important that all abscesses of the scalp should be o^iened early and as soon as detected, and this remark applies very especially to tliose beneath the pericranium, inasmuch as the longer they are left unopened the more extensively Avill the pericranium become separated. Ulcers.—Many various forms of ulcer are met Avith on the scalp. Some follow upon injuries of various kinds, or upon simple eruptions, such as that of eczema. These require no special notice. The more important ulcers of the scalp are of s[)ontaneous origin, and may lie classed as (1) Syphilitic ulcer; (2) Strumous idcer; (3) Lupus; (4) Itodent ulcer; (5) Epithelioma. Uetailed descriptions of these ulcers Avill be found elsewhere, but the folloAv- ing points that affect their ditferential diagnosis may be here briefly stated. (1) Suphilitic ulcers are usually limited to the tertiary stage of syphilis, and are most often met Avith on the forehead. They proceed either from some pre- ' Transactions of the Path. Soc. of London, vol. xvi. p. 224. Op. cit., tome. iii. p. 550.