INJURIES ARI) DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1008 (1) Su'pimration of the gaU-blathler is a consequence of irritation and over- distension, sncli as occurs wlien the common hile-duct, or, still more frequently, when the cystic duct, is obstructed. Symptoms.—Enlargement from suppuration is characterized by a more or less pear-shaped and elastic, sometimes even fluctuating, swelling, pi’ojecting below the edge of the liver and in the normal situation of the gall-bladder. It is painful, and tender to the touch, and is accompanied b}’ febrile symptoms, and frequently by rigors and night-sweats. If the cause of the inflammation is an obstruction in the cystic duct, there will not he jaundice, and the motions will contain bile; but if due to obstruction in the common bile-duct, there will be jaundice, and the motions will not be mixed with bile. Sometimes there is the previous history of biliary colic, and after the abscess has discharged spontaneously, calculi may be passed at longer or shorter intervals through the flstulous track—their passage being attended by severe dragging pain around the opening, as well as by headache and occasional attacks of nausea or actual vomiting. The course of a case of abscess of the gall-bladder is commoidy as follows; A patient, most likely a v'oman, but occasionally a man,* of oi- beyond middle age, suffers from one or more attacks of biliary colic, attended or not by jaundice and vomiting. Some time, it may he many months, after one of these attacks, which has lasted perhaps two or three weeks, persistent and gradually increasing pain, accompanied by fever and other constitutional disturbance, though perhaps not by jaundice, will Ije experienced in the region of the liver. After a time an enlargement will be noticed in the right hypochondrium, and as it increases it will give a sense of fluctuation, and will present other signs of deep-seated abscess. Rigors and night-sweatings ivill accompany this con- dition, and soon, if relief be not given by surgical means, the abscess will burst externally through the parietes, sorneAvhere in the neighborhood of the umbilictis, or internally into the colon, duodenum, or peritoneum. If exter- nally, pus of a laudable character, or tinged with bile, ivill escape; all the severe synqitoms ivill cease; and the patient ivill gradually recover. A fistula will for a time continue to discharge bile or pus, or pus and bile, and biliary calculi may work their way out oi- he removed. The opening is generally to the right of and above the umbilicus, over the fundus or body of the gall- bladder, hut it may be at or below tlie umbilicus, and even at a considerable distance from the region of the gall-bladder, in which case the fistula is very tortuous, l^’ossibly a second fistula will form a few Aveeks after the first; the length of time that the fistula Avill remain open differs very much in different cases, and has been already referred to under the heading of Biliary Fistula?. Diagnosis.—Suppuration of the gall-bladder sometimes presents all the characters of an hepatic abscess, especially of the large, single, tropical abscess. Even in shape and situation the one often resembles the other, and Avhen this is so, a correct diagnosis can only be made by inquiring into the histoiy of the ease, and the previous residences of the j)atient. Such a tumor in a person Avho has never lived in a tropical or malarial climate, Avould most probably be an abscess of the gall-bladdei’, not of the liver. In other instances there is an appreciable difference betAveen he})atic abscess and distension of the gall- bladder, as the tumor of the hepatic abscess is not Avell defined, but merges into the surrounding parts, and is veiy A^ariable in its situation ; but the SAvelling of the distendtid gall-bladde]’ is circumscribed and distinct, and is ahvays situated beloAV the false ribs. The circumference of the fluctuating ‘ Dr. IlaUerslion records a typical case in a man (Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d Ser. vol. svi. j). 420) ; Dr. Murcliison gives a typical case in a woman (Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Liver, p. 531).