NON-PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 893 elsewhere, to restrain hemorrliage; to remove all dirt, pieces of clothing, or other foreign bodies; to provide for drainage; and to procure union of the divided edges. (1) If the bleeding comes from some quite small vessels, or capillaries, and is of the character of oozing, exposure to the air for a short time will suffice; if fi'om a vessel of larger size, such as the superticial circumflex iliac, or super- ticial epigastric, or a large muscular branch, a twist or two with jiressure- forceps, or a ligature, will be required. If the hemorrhage he profuse or per- sistent, and its source a deep artery or vein, the wound must be enlarged, if requisite, to secure the bleeding ends. In bleeding from the dee[» epigastric, circumflex iliac, mammary, or lumbar arteries, there is danger in trusting to palliative measures. Many cases might be quoted to illustrate the fatal con- sequences of temporizing with compresses, binders, and styptics. Tlie liga- ture, or torsion, is necessary, and in such cases the best anatomist ivill often prove the safest surgeon. Secondary hemorrliage is likely to occur from coughing, vomiting, or other form of straining, if tlie bleeding be only tem- porarily checked by coagulum. Conqiresses, graduated or otlierwise, are not to be recommended: they cannot be well borne; tliey are often inettectual, because there is no counter-resistance ; and they are liable to cause burrowdug of blood amongst the tissues, and in deep wounds to press away the perito- neum from the rest of tlie parietes. (2) In the loin, in consequence of the great depth of the parietes, a foreign body may be lost from sight in the wound, and therefore not be detected; elsewhei’e there is not much chance of its esca[iing the scrutiny of a cai'eful surgeon. Unless there be ground for suspecting the presence of an extraneous substance, probing should not be resorted to in abdominal wounds. The most scrupulous cleanliness must be observed in the dressings, and it is well to begin by washing the wound with some antiseptic solution. (3) When there is blood in the wound, or a probability of oozing, a drain- age-tube, or a twist of catgut, horse-hair, or oiled silk, should be insei'ted at one end of the incision. (4) To bring the edges into apposition, and keep them tliere without ten- sion, mobility, or irritation, it is well, in addition to sutures, to support the parts by long strips of adhesive plaster, well applied, so as to get a good hold of the tissues, and }irevent them moving in respiration or in changes of position. Posture, too, is a great adjunct in securing the contact of the edges and keep- ing them at rest hy relaxing the muscles. Thus, in transverse wounds in front of the abdomen, the trunk and thighs should be kept flexed ; in transverse wounds of the lateral part of the belly, the trunk sliould be inclined towards the injured side; in wounds behind, and in longitudinal wounds elsewhere, the straight, recumbent ]iosture sliould be kept. MTiatever form of dressing be employed, it is always well to give support to the wounded ]_iart by a|>ply- ing it so that a gentle, elastic compression shall be exercised. This is easily done by }»lacing a pad of cotton-wool beneath the retaining liandage. There has existed a good deal of ditference of opinion as to the use of sutures, but, with all deference for the teaching of IMr. Guthrie and others, it is my opinion that, thougb not always necessaiy in siqierticial wounds, they are advantageous in deeper ones. The interrupted suture is the best form ; and the liest materials are flshing-gut, catgut, or silk which lias been properly jirepared in a solution of melted white wax, carbolic acid, and chloroform. The sutures should be passed through all the divided tissues, muscle as well as fascire and skin, and should be inserted sufficiently wide of the cut edges to avoid their ulcerating or tearing through, before a bond of plastic material has been formed.