INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. 788 be a matter of indifference. The electric treatment has been especially sim- plified by Mackenzie, who has perfected its technical details by adapting the interrupter of the electric cautery to the handle of the laiyngeal electrode (Fig. 1112), and by attaching the stationary electrode by a strap to the neck. Immobility of the Vocal Bands from Mechanical Restraint.—This may be due to inflammatory tumefaction, to inflammatory adhesions, to tumor, to traumatism, to cicatrization, or to false or true anchylosis of the erico-arytenoid articulation.' Most of these causes have been discussed. Anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid articulation occurs chiefly from perichondritis, and more fre- quently in syphilis and in the perichondritis following enteric fever; occa- sionally from arthritic synovitis. In a case under my own care, the anchy- losis appeared to be the result of inaction, consequent upon fibroma of the vocal band. The diagnosis is made out by laryngoscopic inspection, and can sometimes be confirmed by palpation with the Anger. The iiictures seen in the mirror so closely resemble those of paralysis, that discrimination may be difficult unless the history of the case be given due consideration. Asym- metry of the cartilages on the two sides, or tumefaction, may suggest the existence of anchylosis. The symptoms are similar. Surgical treatment by tracheotomy may be required to insure freedom from dangerous dyspnoea." Apncea. Apnoea (a y>'i'ivative, and rti-tu, I breathe), breathlessness, is used, as a medical term in two senses. Experimental physiologists employ it to indicate the arrest of the respiratory movements observed when the blood is suddenly supplied with an overplus of oxygen—it being well recognized that the respiratory centre in the medulla oblongata is excited by an excess of carbonic acid in tlie circulating blood, and quieted, or even paralyzed, by excess of oxygen. The terrific muscular efforts observed in the domain of the respi- ratory motor apparatus, when suflbcation is imminent, are quite familiar to practitioners generally; and tlie momentary suspension of the respiratory act upon sudden abundant access of atmospheric air to the lungs of a cyanosed patient, through an incision just made into the trachea, is quite as familiar to those who have seen much of tracheotomy. This apnoea ma}’ lead a surgeon off his guard, to dread, for the moment, that death has ensued at the very instant in which he has secured to his patient a fresh lease of life. Clinically, the term apnoea is used by many physicians to designate death by suffocation—the word being inore accurate, etymologically,^ than the con- ventional term asphyxia (a jm’vaifve, and a^v^w,l throb), pulselessness. It is true enough that the death ensues on the cessation of the circulation; and that in many instances of apparent death by apnoea, resuscitation may take place if artiflcial respiration be instituted before the heart lias ceased beating; never- theless, asphyxia, the final stage of the process, is the result of the apnoea, and not itself the mode of death. Strictly speaking, all death is by apnoea— want of breath—but medically speaking, the tei-ni is restricted to death due to sudden stoppage in the aeration of the blood. It may be defined then as cessation of respiration from inability of continuance by reason of insufficiency of oxj'-gen, although there be no immediate cessation of the respiratory act. Thus apnoea is the mode by which death ensues in all forms of sudden ' Medical Record, July 1, 1869, p. 218. 2 For an elaborate discussion of this subject, see Semon (Med. Times and Gaz., yol. ii. 1880) ; Reprint, London, 1880. 3 Watson, Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Physic, p. 44. Philadelphia, 1844.