491 CHEILOPLASTIC OPERATIOXS. made on the rigdit side below the ala nasi, and a huge flap is made on the left side, bonnded within by the left border of the chasm, above by an oblique line extending upward and outward from the left upper angle of the chasm to a point in front of the left ear, and without by a curved line which extends along the ramus of the jaw below its base to the upper part of the neck. This large flap is drawn across the me«:iian hue to meet the smaller flap on the right side. The vermilion borders of the upper and lower lips are made by uniting the mucous membrane with the skin, as seen in Fig. 999. Fig. 1000 exhibits the chasm occasioned by the removal of the right angle of the mouth and the adjacent portions of the upper and lower lips. The chasm represents two triangles joined by their bases near the angle of tlie mouth, the apex of the lowest triangle extending down toward the right side of the chin, and that of the upper one extending outwards towards tlie ramus of the jaw. Fig. 1001 shows how the sides of the triangles are approximated to restore the contour of the mouth. Fig. 1000. Fig. 1001. Restoration of parts of both lips and angle of mouth. (After Szymanowski.) Fig. 1002 exliibits the lines of incision by which a diseased muss involving the middle half of the free border of the lower lip has been removed. If the sides of this chasm were simply approximated, the edge of the lower lip would he very much contracted, and the border of the upper li}> would appear abnormally full. To obviate this difliculty, and to cause the ujiper lip to im})art a portion of its superfluous border to sup}>ly the deflciency of the lower lip, a Y-incision is made transversely a little beyond each angle of the mouth, and when the lateral flaps are joined together in the median Hue, a portion of the border of the upper lip on each side is made to supplement the border of the lower lip, as seen in Fig. 1003. llefore concluding the subject of cheiloplasty, it may not be amiss to make a few statements with regard to tlie general subject of plastic operations. The success of these operations depends largely on careful attention to cer- tain minute details. One of the most important mattei's in this connection is the treatment of cicatricial tissue. None of this tissue should be included in transplanted flaps, as it will almost invariably lead to sloughing of the flap. Cicatricial tissue may be freely incised, and may even lie divided into narrow segments, without losing its vitality, if its basal attachments be left undisturbed. An incision may bo made through a cicatricial band, and a