68 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. eases.^ The opening through the dnra mater may be primary, or may occur at a later date from sloughing of that membrane. The presence of splinters of bone, piercing and irritating the dnra mater, seems peculiarly apt to give rise to hernia cerebri. The time of its appearance is most various. It may be rpiite voluminous, as I have seen it, within twenty-four hours, or it may not ap- pear until the sixty-eighth day f but in most instances it has been first noticed from the tilth to the seventeenth day, that is, when inflammation has set in and is well under way. Large portions of the cerebral substance may be destroyed, as in a case of M. Louchacourt,^ where the lateral ventricle was laid open—as shown before death by the large quantities of limpid fluid which came from the wound, and after death by direct examination. There is often a great ap})arent loss of brain-tissue before death, when at the autopsy but little cere- bral substance is found to have been destro3’ed ; which shows that much of the protruded mass, in certain cases, must have consisted of granulation-tissue, extravasated blood, intiltratcd serum, etc. The swelling is usuall}' painless on ])ressure or incision, although in a few cases evanescent pain has been com- plained of when the mass lias been cut awaja The subjacent brain-substance is soft, swollen, and ocdematous, and the whole brain is often intiltrated with serum, and contains abscesses, or the ventricles ma}" be filled with large quantities of fluid ; all these conditions ma}" coexist. Extensive intra- arachnoid and sub-arachnoid effusions of pus and l^’inph are common]}'found. Although, in a general wa}', the truth of Guthrie’s statement is borne out by experience, that protrusion of the bi’ain-substance is more apt to take place when there has been a limited removal of bone, }'et M. Bouchacourt’s'* case, and two others mentioned b}' Hewett, prove that the contraiy maybe true. As ill the case of }>rimaiy brain-protrusion, from the rarity of gaping of basal fractures and consequent rupture of the dura mater, hernia cerebri rarcl}’ occurs except in the vault of the skull. AVith the necessary pre-requisites, however, that is, removal of pressure ly destruction of the bone and dura mater, secondaiy brain-protrusion ma}" occur at the base. Thus, a boy under the care of Mr. Ciesar Hawkins received a pistol-ball wound through the right malar bone, with lodgment of the missile in the head. There were no marked cerebral sj'mptoms for seven da}’s, when he became restless and delirious. That afternoon a soft fungus showed itself in the wound, and he died thirty hours later. Post-mortem inspection revealed a large gap in the sphenoid and temporal bones, through which quite a large mass of brain- substance projected. The substance of the brain around tbe protrusion was vascular, and of the 3'ellow color usualty found in such cases.® The tumor, pressing its wa}^ externall}', when it reaches the level of the cranial walls, tends to spread mushroom-like over the contiguous scalp. Its surface is irregularl}' indented, soft and discolored with blood, or gray and firm. The protrusion ma}' be onty moderate!}' vascular, or may be most abundantly supplied with blood, and may pulsate synchronously with the brain. Portions are a})t to slough away from time to time, so that in some cases the Avhole tumor may drop away piecemeal, cicatrization of the wound, and cure, following ; or again, yari imssa witli the sloughing away of portions of the growth, new protrusion may take place, until the patient finally dies exhausted. In one case reported by Quesnay, the })atient tore the whole mass away, a cure resulting. Finally, without sloughing, the hernia may gradually shrink, and totally disappear.® 1 Med.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. viii. p. 45. Gross, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 78. * Laurie, Lond. and Ed. Monthly, June, 1844, p. 478. » Bull, de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, tome xiii. p. 13. Loc. cit. ® Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 612. 6 Laurie, loc. cit.; Crawford, Ediub. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. xii. p. 22.