712 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE AIR-PASSAGES. occurs posteriorly only, and occasionally exists in both directions. The innomi- nate artery has been known to be opened by ulceration of this kind. Fre- quent inspection of the canula will discover blood or tarnish at its exti’emit}-, if it is })roducing ulceration ; while cough, and pain I’eferred to one spot, will constitute the subjective indications. Change in the length and shape of the canula is the preventive remedy. Bronchotomy : Laryngotomy, Tracheotomy, etc. Bronchotomy.—Bronchotomy, literally a division of the windpipe, is the generic term long applied to incisions made into any portion of the air- passages, although a wound of a bronchus has never been included in the category—the word bronchus having been used by the ancients to designate the trachea, and tlie word bronchia its ramitications. As their names iniply, laryngotomy and tracheotomy denote incisions into the larynx and into the trachea; and laryngo-tracheotomy, a continuous incision involving both structures. They are performed to secure artificial openings for several purposes, namely, the re-establishment of respiration when the normal channel is occluded above; the removal of foreign bodies, whether of pathological origin or of accidental introduction ; and the extirpation or de- struction of morbid growths. They are performed in the middle line, except when unusual conditions compel a lateral incision.^ Laryngectomy is an exsection of the larynx, whether partial or complete. It is sometimes associated, in either instance, with exsection of adjacent structures. It is occasionally performed in certain cases of irremediable malig- nant dkease of the larynx, usually sarcoma or carcinoma. A limited partial lai’yngectomy, termed resection of the larynx, is sometimes performed in stric- ture of this part, to remove cicatricial and other indurated tissue. Laryngotomy may be complete or partial. Complete laryngotomy implies section of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages and the intervening crico-tlyroid membrane. It is rarely performed, and usually only in removals of extensive intra-laryngeal morbid growths, or as a step preliminary to possible laryn- gectomy. Section of the thyroid cartilage, thyrotomy or thyroidotomy, is usually performed for the purpose of removing morbid groAvths unsuitable for operations by the natural opening, and for gaining access to foreign bodies imprisoned in the upper portion of the larynx, especially when the intruders are caught in one or both ventricles. Section of the crico-thyroid membrane, crico-thyroid laryngotomy, crico-thyrotomy, or intercrico-thyrotomy—a meso-chondi’ic operation—is usually performed in cases of occlusion of the upper portion of the larynx from acute disease, in which the artificial open- ing is needed but for a few hours, or a few days; or for access to minute morbid growths upon the vocal bands or beneath them. It is occasionally performed for access to a foreign body in the larynx. It is the operation imtil recently most generally known as laryngotomy. Being by far the easiest and least dangerous operation of the entire series, it is often performed upon a sudden and sharp emergency, or when the operator has no assistant at hand. It is rarely performed upon children for any purpose. When the opening which it gives is insufficient, it is customary to prolong the incision a slight distance into the thyroid cartilage, or to sever the cricoid cartilage. Section of the thyro-hyoid ligament—sub-hyoid ijharyngotomy, sometimes ' Lateral incisions into the trachea were recommended by Quain (Elements of Anatomy. London, 1829 ; cited by Gross, op. cit., p. 234), and were practised several times for the extrac- tion of foreign bodies by Gilbert, of Philadelphia (Am. Jonrn. Med. Sci., N. S. vol. xxi. p. 74, 1851).