578 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. side. They have been driven through the nnicous membrane, and have occa- sioned severe bleeding. Much bruising, swelling, and pain accompany these accidents, and all movements of the parts or of the tongue, as in articu- lation or deglutition, become both diliicult and painful. The trachea has been ruptured and yet no wound has existed externally. (Bryant.) An attempt by manipulation may be made, under chloroform, to restore any displaced fragments, but such measures are difficult and seldom succeed. If replaced, they may be secured by adhesive plaster, or by fixing the head, on a pillow, with the neck straight or bent according as the parts are found most relaxed. Easily swallowed food should alone be given, and it may be necessary to use the stomach-pump for alimentation. If there be much laceration, it will be almost impossible to retain the fragments in place. Tracheotomy may be required if there is a threatening of asphyxia, and artificial respiration may be needed to overcome the immediate danger. If an accumulation of air or blood in the cellular tissue cause injurious pressure, an incision in the middle line may be necessary. It has been alleged that the hyoid bone may be dislocated^ but this obser- vation is far from being confirmed. Fracture of the cricoid is a very dangerous accident. It implies much vio- lence, gives rise to shock, convulsive cough, and spasm, and is apt to be fol- lowed by such severe inflammation and swelling as to render it generall}' fatal. Mr. Durham gives a summary of recorded cases from Ilenoque and otliers. He mentions sixty-two cases in all, of fracture of the bones and cartilages of the larynx, with only twelve recoveries.^ Necrosis may attack the cartilages of the larynx as a result of injuiy, but more usually it is due to syphilis. Much local an<l constitutional disturb- ance is thereby occasioned. Though this disease is usually chronic in its course, yet acute symptoms may arise at any time and induce the utmost danger. The portions of dead cartilage may be discharged with the profuse and offensive expectoration, or may cause abscesses which, after dissecting their way far and near, may allow the debris to escape externally. Fistulfe may thus be established, and a cachexia which is severe and difficult to deal with. All such pus-collections should be opened as early as possible, their drainage secured, and any dead and detached pieces of cartilage removed. Bronchotomy may be required at any time to relieve spasm and oedema, and this measure may be rendered desirable even to secure rest to the dis- eased parts, and to give time for the employment of constitutional remedies, or local applications, such as medicated air, etc. The sterno-mastoid muscle may become the seat of swelling and effusion, from being strained at birth [congenited honor or in duration^), and one fonn of wryneck may be due to this cause. Violent twists of the head, falls, and even rapid and strong contraction of the fibres of this muscle, have been known to cause partial rupture in the adult, followed by sudden and dis- tressing pain, together with considerable effusion, necessitating rest, fixa- tion, and fomentations, with subsequent friction, for its removal.^ Burns and Scxlds of the Xeck. Scalds and burns are not uncommon in the neck, and, if severe, are attended with serious shock. They occasion much anxiety subsequently from the ' (tibb, The Hyoid Bone. London, 1862. * See Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed., vol. ii. p. 462. ® See Myo-sclerosis, page 600, infra. Revue des Sciences Medicales, tome ii. p. 741. 1873.