101 TREPHINING. most patients, according to 'W’alsliam’s statistics, are only improved, are unre- lieved, or die. Symptoms Indicating Operation.—Pain in the head, mostly located at or about the injured spot, has been present in most instances. Ont of a total of 82 cases collected by Mr. Walsham, in 3 there were no local indications, while in 44 a depressed cicatrix or a depressed spot, painful or tender on pressure, existed. In some, the cicatrix or depressed spot was merely sensitive, in others the seat of constant pain. Pressure at these points produced in 2 cases vertigo, in 1 convulsions, and in 1 rigidity; in 1—a point worthy of future investigation—the temperature was 3° F. higher at the tender spot than elsewhere upon the cranium. In 8 cases there was neither cicatrix nor depression, but a tender, painful, or sensi- tive spot, pressure upon which caused pain, vertigo, or convulsions. In 8 cases there was a fistulous tract leading down to dead bone. In 3 patients a fissure was felt in the hone. In 2 tliei’e was a bony elevation. In 2 there was a tumor or swelling of the bone. Eleven operations were said to have been performed at the site of a former wound or injury. In one instance there was no scar or any other local indication, but from the symptoms tre- phining seemed indicated over the fissure of Rolando, and was there success- fully applied.^ In the majority of cases, depressed hone was discovered at the operation, or the osseous tissue was found variously altered and diseased. Where carious or necrosed, a sinus generally led down to the bone. The dura mater was usually found healthy, but in other cases was thickened, congested, vascular, or adhei’ent. A strange fact is, tliat in 16 cases notliing to account for the epilepsy could l)e detected, and yet in 10 such cases, in which recovery took place, 7 patients were cured, 2 were relieved, and only 1 was unrelieved. In one of the cases in whicli the patient died unrelieved, an undetected bone- fragment was found after death to have caused the failure of the operation. Results ; Prognosis.—In 48' of the 82 cases under review a cure was efiected, the patients being restored to good health ; 13 patients were relieved, some of whom may ultimately have been really cured, as they were steadily ini[irov- ing when last heard from.^ In a certain proportion the fits persisted at first, and gradually disappeared. Four patients were not improved, and 17 died. In certain of these deaths the fatal termination occurred so long afterwards as hardly to he fairly attributable to the operation. Taking the whole number of cases collected by Walsham, and 37 added l^y myself, making in all 167, 32 ended fatally, a mortality of 19.16 per cent. As to the prognosis, with regard to recovery from the epilepsy, etc., the cases aliove referred to, where the details are given, furnish the only thoroughly trustworthy data which are available. If there is a distinct history of injury, a well-marked cicatrix, or a sinus lead- ing down to dead hone, and if the epilepsy has undoubtedly lieen initiated by the injury, there can be no doubt of tlic propriety of operating after the failure of medical treatment. So simple an o})eration as mere removal of the cicatrix and pericranium, will in certain cases permanently relieve epilepsy, as in a patient of I)r. J. Ewing Mears, of Philadeli)hia. Portal cured one case of epilepsy by excising a cicatrix u] »on the thumb, and aiatther by a similar operation upon a scar of the scalp. The amputation of injured toes, lithotomy, and evacuating the contents of a wounded eye have also cured epileptics. In most of these cases a so-called aura has been present, starting in the point • Walsham, loc. cit., p. 133. 2 One of the cured patients in this list was reported at first as only unimproved, yet a later report showed that he had had no fits for years.