HERNIA. 11‘20 circulation of blood tlirougli its vessels, the rupture is said to be irreducible. This condition may be produced 1, by the adhesion of the contents to the sac, or to each other, so as to prevent the serous surfaces from sliding over each other, or bj" the formation of membranous bands; 2, by the enlargement of the omentum or mesentery by deposition of adipose tissue, or from fibroid or glandular change in these structures, usually resulting from truss pressure {incarceralcd hernia); and 3, in the case of omental hernia, by atrophy of the u[iper part which lies in the neck of the sac, causing it to double up easily on force being applied. Irreducibility produces dragging pain in the abdo- men, and sometimes nausea and vomiting, fiatulent distension, and constipa- tion from irregular peristaltic action, all increased by corpulence and preg- nancy. The protruded parts are also exposed to injury, and are in constant danger of strangulation and inflammation. Irreducible ruptures may sometimes be made reducible by keeping the patient in bed for some weeks or months, and by reducing the diet so as to cause absor])tion of the fat. And when this has been done in the course of a long illness, irreducible ruptures have sometimes spontaneously disappeared. A large entei’oeele may be rendered temporarily irreducible, by an accumu- lation and impaction of hardened feces in the contained intestine preventing the progress of the intestinal contents wholly or in part {infarcted hernia). ddiis condition is invariably attended by more or less constipation of the l)owels, and may even give rise to the more severe .symptoms of obstruction, such as nausea, and vomiting, even of a fecal character. Copious enemata of gruel, olive oil, and turpentine, regularly administered three or four times daily, with the recumbent position aided by the topical application of hot fomentations, will usually help the taxis to a successful issue in such cases. The regular use of laxative enemat.a, with the a|)])lication of ice-bags and elastic, compressing apparatus to the tumoi-, will help to relieve all these forms of irreducible hernia. Sometimes it happens that the patient is made so uncomfortable and ill by the return of an old irreducible hernia, that the reproduction of the protrusion is desirable to relieve him. Efibrts at reduc- tion are most likely to succeed in the omental forms. But when there are adliesions, it is evident that the measures'above described cannot succeed, and if the STiflerings or disability resulting from an irreducible rupture jus- tify the risk, the modern practice, hereafter described, of opening the tumor under the carbolic spray, and antiseptic dressing, may be had recourse to. The palliative plan of applying a bag truss to receive and support the rup- ture, may be sutficient to relieve the patient wliose phj'sical condition or age forbids such an operation. Strangulated Hernia. A hernia is said to be strangulated when it is constricted at the neck with such force as to obstruct the circulation of the blood in the vessels and to })aralyze the nerves, as well as to stop the passage of secretions and feces through the contained bowel. The former condition may exist, and set up its characteristic symptoms, in cases of omental and other herniae which do not contain bowel. The results depend upon the severity of the constrict- ing force. If it be so complete as to stop all the circulation in the compressed parts, either by its immediate pressure, by tbe })rogressive coagulation of the blood, producing thrombosis in the vessels less immediately compressed, or by the results of" inflammatory stasis, tlie result is comi»lcte gangrene or mortification of tbe parts engaged. If it be less complete, the result may be linear ulceration of the parts immediately compressed, and progressive sepa-