406 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. lage, a not unusual result, especially if treatment has been delayed. I have never seen the intiamniation spread to the frontal sinus or lachrymal passages. 'With this condition there is some febrile movement, and much local pain and distress. The treatment consists in opening the abscess by direct and free incision, with thorough evacuation of its contents. The longer the delay, the greater is the risk of the periosteum or the perichondrium being involved, with resulting necrosis. The incision, which rapidly closes, must be kept open for a few days until tumefaction has subsided. Bad results do not fol- low, even in cases where the cartilage has been perforated ; the mucous mem- brane heals kindly over the small loss of substance without leaving any external deficiency. Acute abscess complicated loith a small aneurism has been observed by Thudi- chund in one instance. In opening the abscess the aneurism was also opened, and the free bleeding could only be checked by means of the galvano-cautery. Chronic abscess of the septum^ with perforation of the cartilage, may occur in syphilitic or scrofulous subjects, and may even exist without known as- signable cause. It is unilateral, its progress is slow and insidious, and its symptoms slight, the patient often being unaware that it exists ; no marked inflammation accompanies it, and, externally, the nose gives no evidence of its presence. The ulcerative destruction of the cartilaginous septum which fol- lows, is, however, serious, and one large orifice or several small perforations result, the former being the rule. Such cases are not unfrecpiently examined long after the subsidence of all of the symptoms, and when the existence of the perforation through the septum is the only guide to the surgeon as to the nature of the earlier affection. Perforation of the nasal septum, it may here be remarked, should not always be regarded as syphilitic in its origin, the result of the breaking down of a gumma. In many instances, probably, the true cause lies in the direct mechanical irritation caused by the patient, usually the subject of nasal catarrh, in constantly endeavoring to remove hard- ened secretions from the anterior portion of the septum. Such cases are not at all uncommon, and are elsewhere alluded to in this article. I cannot believe, with Cohen, that there is even a probability that, in a fair proportion of in- stances, the ])erforation has resulted during the course of a syphilitic coryza which has occurred in early infancy. Still less do I believe that these perfo- rations are congenital, even though they be met with independently of anj' history of local disease within the patient’s memory. Early incision of these abscesses is imperative, and a guarded prognosis should be given. Perforation of the septum is the rule; and, although no external deformity of tlie nose has ever followed in my experience, the con- dition is one that, in many respects, is disagreeable in its results. Plastic operations for the closure of the deficiency, although they have been under- taken, are rarely if ever attended _ with success. Constitutional treatment, suitable to the indications presented in individual cases, is all-important. Syphilitic induration of one or commonly both sides of the septum, due primarily, in all probability, to disease of the perichondrium, without any marked inffammatory symptoms, and with no evidence at any part of its course of the formation of abscess, may exist, and may constitute an efficient cause of nasal obstruction. I have met with it in several instances. The diagnosis rests mainly upon the indurated character of the swelling, and upon the absence of all signs of excessive inffamination. Its differentiation from cartilaginous outgrowth of the septum, and even from deflection of the car- tilao-e, should the induration be unilateral, demands some care. Its rapid Laucet, April 17, 1880.