INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 92 metres in man, or 6 centimetres in women (BR), whicli will give the upper extremity of the Rolanclic fissure.^ ISText measure backwards a horizontal line, 7 centimetres in length, from the external angular process of the frontal hone where it begins to curve upwards to form the temporal ridge (‘Fig. 831). Flexible square of Broca. P. wooden Flexible square applied. B. bregma, plug to be introduced into auditory (After Lucas-Championni6re.) meatus. (After Lucas-Championnibre.) Heady mode of determining position of bregma. (After Lucas-Championnibre.) Upon this elevate a perpendicular line A R', 3 centimetres long, which will give the lower point of the fissure of Rolando; connecting these two points by the lineR^'R, we have the whole fissure defined with sufficient accuracy. The line should be distinctly marked upon the shaven scalp with an aniline pencil, or with strong tincture of iodine. Even when there is marked oedema, steady pressure with the finger will readily make out the bony point required. As a large-crowned trepliihe should be used for all operations where we seek to expose individual nerve-centres by the niles of cerebral topography, any little inaccuracy in measurement, which may be unavoidable, proves of no great moment. In conclusion, I wonld remark that the whole subject of cerebral localiza- tion is yet in its infancy; that what has been said must be considered as provisional; but that by the lighl already gained, a few surgeons have suc- ceeded in operations, solely guided by cerebral topography, while more have been partially guided, as I have been in two instances; and that in the past operations have been refrained from, and still more will be in the future, which a knowledge of cerebral localization may show to be useless. Trephining. It is of the first moment to ascertain the danger inherent to the ojieration itself. For this purpose it is useless to refer, as is commonly done, to such statistics as those of Fritze, 63.98 per cent.; of Pirogoff, from 60 to 70 per cent.; of Le Fort, 56.22 per cent.; of Otis, 56 per cent.; of Bluhm, 61.25 per cent.; and of Bermann, 46 per cent, of mortality. My reasons for making this sweeping statement are, that, as shown by W. J. Walsham in his admir- able paper on the dangers of trephining, investigation proves tliat in many • Broca, Seguin, and most authors say only 5 centimetres, hut Lucas-Champiouniere insists that this is not enough.