524 INJURIES ANI) DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. Polypus of the gum, or simple liyperti’opli}^ due to irritation, is not uncom- mon in the neighborhood of decaj^ed teeth, or where an accumulation of tartar has been allow^ed to take place. The affection, when of considerable size, may resemble epulis, hut differs from it in being unconnected with the periosteum ; and hence it recpnres much milder treatment. The removal of the tartar or the decayed teeth, and the use of an astringent w^ash, are sufficient in most cases; if the growth is large, it is generally pedunculated, and therefore readily snipped off wdth scissors, or, if sessile, it may be cut off and cauterized •with Pacpielin’s cautery. Salter describes a true warty affection of the gums, ahd also a eondylomatous condition occurring in constitutional syphilis. Gingivitis, or inflammation of the gums, is a common affection in infants who are cutting their teeth. The mouth is hot and tender, there being a con- stant dribbling of saliva, and the child’s health is interfered ■with by the loss of rest, and by diarrhoea, and possibly convulsions, caused by the irritation of the system. Free lancing of the gums is the only trustworthy remedy, and should be had immediate recourse to in all cases of severity, although in slight cases rubbing the gums 'with the symims croci, or with one of the numer- ous but dangerously narcotic “ soothing-syrups,” may be sufficient. A SPONGY CONDITION 0F THE GUMS, often Called scurvy, but -vidiich differs en- tirely from the gnm of true scurvy, is common in persons ■who neglect the cleanliness of their teeth, or who are in feeble health. According to Salter, the disease consists essentially in vascular dilatation of the papillary and other capillaries, with a general thickening of the gum itself. The treatment con- sists in improving the general health, and in using the tooth-brush vigorously with some astringent mouth-wash. The spongy gum due to the adminis- tration of mercury, differs from the preceding in presenting a ivell-defined red line along the margin of the gum, before the sponginess comes on, com- bined with fetor of breath, and a metallic taste in the mouth. The blue line of plumbism is due to a formation of sulphide of lead, and the green line of copper-poisoning to the oxidation of copper in the superffeial tissues of the gum. In true scurvy, due to deprivation of vegetable diet, the gums are swollen and livid from submucous extravasations of blood, and they bleed on the slightest touch. In advanced cases the gums become black and sloughy, protrude between tlie lips, and are horribly offensive. Such cases are seldom seen except in seamen who have been improperly fed and deprived of lime- juice during a long voyage; but mild cases of scurvy, characterized by sub- cutaneous ecchymoses in other parts of the body, may be met with, and like the more severe ones yield promptly to the administration of fresh fruit and vegetables. Bleeding from gums apparently healthy, is a common symptom in the hemorrhagic diathesis, and may be best cliecked by pressure and by the administration of hsemostatics in the form of iron and the mineral acids. Transparent Hypertrophy of the Gums.—Under the name of transparent hypertrophy, Mr. Salter^ has described a very rare affection of the gums, first noticed by the late Mr. Thomas Bell, F. R. S. “ It consists in the slo^sv and gradual hypertrophy of the extreme edge of the gum, at first like a cord, and very sharply marked from the immediately contiguous healthy-looking structure; but the most remarkable circumstance is the singular color of the hypertrophied part: it is pale pink and semi-transparent. It is very callous and insensitive, and scarcely bleeds when cut. As the disease progresses, the 1 Dental Pathology and Surgery 18?4.