1139 INGUINAL HERNIA. upon such skill and experience, is shown in this, as in other operations, such as ovariotomy and laparotomy. In the liistory of those operations, as ivell as in that for the radical cure of hernia, it is distinctly shown that the mortality and failures of tlie earlier attempts of all surgeons are very much greater than when experience has brought the knowledge, care, and skill necessary to deal successfully with the conditions of each case. Much depends upon the choice of cases, but more upon the sui'geon’s manipulative skill, the plan of the operation, and the after-treatment adopted. In the first hundred operations for tlie radical cure of hernia performed by myself, while trying various methods—such as plugs, ligature-threads, and compresses of various forms—and on all kinds of hernial cases in which success was at all likely to be obtained, the number of deaths was three. One of these was from pyiemia, and another from erysipelas—hotli dangers Avhich the advance of antise[)tic surgery has rendered so infrequent as to be prac- tically abolished. The third was from peritonitis, which, as shown clearly by the post-mortem examination, was set up by other causes than the opera- tion. In the last two hundred cases operated on by my subcutaneous-wire method, not one has been attended by any serious or unpleasant symptom. If all these cases are taken together, the risks of my various methods amount to one per cent. If the results of the perfected operation only are taken, the risk to life (as far as 200 cases go) is notliing. And this, I think, may be taken as the basis of calculation (allowing for the fallibility and imper- fection of individual surgical skill), in bealthy subjects below the age of 40, atfected with reducible inguinal hernia. The next most important consideration is the chance of failure in the pro- duction of a cure by operation. This may be set against the trouble, pain, and irksomeness of wearing a truss without an operation. The dithculty of exactly ascertaining the per- centage of failures, or of return of the ru[»ture montlis or years after the ope- ration, is great. The results Avhich I have been able to ascertain satisfacto- rily, Avill lie given hereafter. In this place, it is enough to say that in favorable cases I estimate the successful results of tlie subcutaneous wire operation at 75 or 80 per cent., and in less favorable cases at 60 }ier cent. And, what is a very important element in the calculation of chances, in a great many of the cases in which a certain amount of reproduction of the rupture lias occurred, a truss has been made availalile and successful in keeping up the remaining pi-otrusion, and in making the patient comfortable, ivlien it was not so licfore the operation.- In some cases also, the groin, though at tirstweak, lias improved under the sub- sequent pressure so much, and the usual contents of the rupture have been so conqiletely kept out of the sac, that a tirm cure has subsequently and tinally resulted. Again, in not one of the cases operated on, as tar as can be ascertained, has the jiaticnt’s condition been rendered worse by the operation. And this also is a very important consideration. In those cases in which a cure has resulted aud endured for some years, and under extraordinary efforts or liy accidental injury has again given ivay and reproduced the rupture, it must lie considered that in the mean time the patient has had all the advantages of a- sound groin, and lias lieen relie\^ed from the inconveniences ot a truss. And the rupture in such cases must pro- perly be considered as a fresh rupture, jiroduced by the giving ivay of fresh parts ot a groin originally weak, and jiroduced by a force which might have, and often does have, the ctfect of causing another rujiture in a ditferent part ot the abdomen, just as a tatty or other tumor, after being removed in one jilace.