909 PEXETKATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. ]K;iiits out that tliougli tlio nmeous tunic is regenerated, yet the villous suriaee is thinner than natural, and a slight depression exists at the seat of suppuration. Johert, in support of his view that the mucous membrane is reproduced at the line of division, quotes a case recorded in the Lancet for 1848. Lr. Thompson, Regius Professor of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh, shoAved that it Avas sufficient for the purpose of union to include only the peritoneum in the suture. Travers states further that the uni- form contiguity of the peritoneal surfaces, and their ready disposition to assume the adhesive inflammation, are the means provided by nature for the reparation of intestinal Avounds and injuries;* and that by this method of nature, punctured and small incised Avounds, transverse or longitudinal, and apertures caused by excision of gut-substance, readily admit of sponta- neous cure. TraA’ers even thinks it just j)Ossible that, under certain conditions, the intestine, after having been half divided, may be imperfectly restored by this same method of nature; but that complete division (or Avhat he calls direct division) of the tube is irreparable except Avhen effected by the action of a stricture (Avhieh is Avhat he calls indirect division), natural or artitieial, in Avhicli case the injury admits of perfect and speedy recovery. In his AA’ell-knoAvn experiment of applying a ligature around the duodenum of a dog, the ligature ulcerated through into the boAvel, the canal of Avhich Avas perfectly re-established; a transverse fissure marked the seat of the ligature, and the appearances corresponded Avith those of union after suture. The dog' had quite recovered by the fifteenth day after the operation, Avhen he aauis killed and inspected.^ Dr. Gross repeated this experiment, and found that the period requisite for the escape of the ligature Avas Amry variable. A ligature Avhich includes a portion of the intestinal Avail, such as that sometimes ado[>ted for punctured Avounds, is folloAAmd by adhesive inflamma- tion, and thus the ulcerated Avound made by the ligature is closed in the same Ava}^ as a simple incised Avound of the boAvel. Sutures, in Avhatever way introduced, except Avhen the ends are retained at the external Avound, separate inwards and pass off through the anus. In the case of sutures of any absorb- able material, such as catgut, it is probable that the idcerative process does not extend into the canal, and that the knots of the sutures are for a time, that is, until their complete absorption, encysted. The s]>ecies of suture is of secondary inq^ortance, provided that the cut ends of the boAvel are brought into accurate contact throughout their entire circumference ; if tins be done, the mode of repair proceeds on the lines above stated; and, Avith the exception that the cylinder of the bowel is maintained through the instrumentality of the sutures, instead of by tlie su[)porting contact of surrounding structures, the same uniform pilnciple is folloAved after sutures as in spontaneous union. Tlie solid organs—the liver, spleen, kidney, and even the pancreas—are not excepted from the liability of being protruded and injured. (See the special sections on injuries of those organs.) 1’enetrating AV^ounds avith In.jury to, but avithout Protrusion of, the ^"ISCERA.—These are even more serious than those of the last group. The}* iliffer from tlieni, too, in that it is often inqiossible to recognize them. Thei’e is no doubt about the nature of an injury when the Avounded viseus is protrud- ing, but there are no certain means of verifying a Avound, at least at the outset, Avhen the viseus is not protruding, save by tlie escape of feces, bile, urine, or the ingesta, through the outer Avound. The abdominal viscera are ahvays naturally in accurate contact Avith the parietes, and that penetrating Avounds ' Op. cit., p. 13.3. * Travers, 0]>. cit., p. 98, Experiment O.