INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1014 to inflammation of the bladder, in others due to tubercle or calculus within the kidney. A renal calculus, after destroying to a greater or less extent the renal structures, may ulcerate through the capsule and lie loose in a suppu- rating space behind the kidney. Tuberculous matter may lead to ulceration of the capsule, and may sprout fungus-like into the tissue around the kidne}’; or perinephric abscess may be induced by it without its first perforating the renal capsule. Urethral stricture, vesical calculus, and disease of the pros- tate, may each lead to acute or chronic perinephritis. Evidence of chronic perinephritis is often seen in the post-mortem examination of such cases, and is furnished by the induration of the peri-renal cellular tissue and by the thickened and firmly fixed renal capsule which is left behind on attempting to remove the kidney. In acute cases, the capsule is found to be very vas- cular, and numerous abscesses are formed in the inflamed celhdar tissue around the capsule. In time these abscesses coalesce, and burrow far and wide, if they do not soon open into the colon or at the loin. These abscesses may extend from the liver or spleen as low as the iliac fossa, and may at length jirotrude the abdominal walls, backwards, outwards, or towai’ds the front. They occur commonly in adults, hut as the result of injury they may arise at any age; though, perhaps, more frequent in men, they often are met with in women. Some few of these abscesses are quite simple in origin, course, and termination. In the 26 instances brought together by Dr. Dufiin, of King’s College Hos- pital, London, 2 wei’e the result of severe injury to the loin; 2 had a puerperal origin; 1 followed a renal abscess secondary to lithotrity; 1 was excited by irritability of the bladder; 8 by kidney-disease; and in 12 the abscess appeared to have been independent of any afi’ection of the urinary organs. In 5 of these 12 cases, a sprain of the loins seems to have been the exciting cause, in 3 exposure to cold, and in 1 the abscess was secondary to ulceration in the gall-bladder. Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms are the same as are excited by deep-seated abscesses in other regions, and will be more or less severe, accord- ing to the acuteness of the inflammation. Generally, they are well marked, hut in old or weakly persons, and when the inflammation is chronic, they are masked, until the abscess by its size and pressure upon surrounding struc- tures forces itself upon attention. A peculiar sort of lameness is often an early symptom, and is due to the flexed position in which the thigh of the aftected side is retained in order to relieve pressure upon the inflamed struc- tures. The sitting attitude is also, and for the same reason, characteristic; the person sits on one tuber ischii so as to relax the other side. Dr. Duflin, in an excellent summary of 26 collected cases,' draws particular attention to this lameness as a diagnostic sign, and points out its association with another tendency of these abscesses, namely, to implicate the pleura and lung. The mechanism of the lameness is explained by the pus following the track of the psoas and as the pus may follow this muscle downwards to the groin, so it may he guided by it beneath the ligamentum arcuatum to the pleural cavity. A case is recorded in which the pus took both directions ; it ran along the psoas and between tlie pillars of the duq)hragm, and also pointed in the groin.* The local symptoms are a swelling or tumor in the region of the kidney, at first hard and resisting, and, if the parietes he thick and fat, indistinct and ill defined. It will liest he detected by lifting, as it were, each flank in the fingers of one hand, and thus simultaneously conqiaring the resistance ottered on the two sides. The attected side will often give the sense of in- > Med. Times and Gazette, September 24, 1870, and November IG, 1872. 2 See Dr. Dickinson’s Case: Trans. Patli. Soc. Lond., vol. xvi. p. 175. ® Lancet, July 4, 18G3.