INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM, 161 rupture of the aneurism is the mode of termination.* Several cases of spon- taneous cure are recorded. Such are some of the chief facts in connection with intracranial aneurism. It must he owned, however, that (in the present state of our knowledge, at least) these tumors have little concern with practical surgery. This conces- sion must be made with some reservation, and must not include at least two intracranial aneurisms, viz., aneurism of the internal carotid artery, and aneurism of the middle meningeal. These aneurisms will receive separate consideration presently. With regard to the rest—the bulk of intraci-anial aneurisms—it may be said that they are at present excluded from the pro- vince of practical surgery for a twofold reason. The lirst of these deals with diagnosis. The majority of these aneurisms have not been recognized until the j)atient has reached the post-mortem room. In very many cases the tumor has produced absolutely no symptoms, and it has been only when death has occurred from other causes that the unsuspected aneurism has been dis- covered. In other cases, the only symptoms have been those that have im- mediately preceded death, and that have been due to the rupture of an aneu- rism of whose previous existence no evidence had been given. In the most favorable cases, the diagnosis can be little more than con- jectural, and would certainly not be clear enough to justify an operation, even presuming any operation to be proposed. The existence of a cere- bral tumor may be recognized, but when the natui'e of the tumor is dis- cussed, and the direct cpiestion asked—Is it aneurismal I—a chaotic district in medical knowledge is exposed, and a positive answer is seldom to be obtained. Immense progress has of late Ijeen made in this department of medicine, and no doubt in time this void will be tilled up, but at present no basis is afforded for active surgical }>ractice. In the second place, supposing the diagnosis to have been made, can sur- gery do anything to cui-e or relieve the patient ? At present the answer must certainly be in the negative—bearing in mind that we are rpiite ex- cluding from these remarks the two special aneurisms already alluded to. Four large vessels enter into the circle of Willis; and so large are their con- tributions, and so free their anastomoses, that ligature of one, or even of two of the supplying trunks, would have but very doubtful prospects of success. Presuming that both carotids were tied, the circulation through the vertebrals would still be too vigorous to allow of much hope of good result. Indeed, I think it may safely be said that these particular intracranial aneurisms are at present beyond the reach of any surgical treatment. It would be foreign to the purpose of tliis work to discuss the symptoms that might be associated with these aneurisms; such an inquiry would open up a subject of immense interest and great complexity—the diagnosis and localization of cerebral tumors—a subject that is however at present more the concern of the physician than of the surgeon. Aneurism of the Internal Carotid Artery at the Cavernous Sinus.— The symptoms of this aneurism vary somewhat, but, taken as a whole, are fairly characteristic. The symptoms often appear suddenly after an injury of some kind, or, on the other hand, may develop spontaneously, and assume a very leisurely and chronic course. There is usually frontal headache, that is often severe and associated with exacerbations, and that is sometimes located by the patient at the back part of one orbit. In addition, a rasping or sawing noise in the ears—^or more particularly in the car of the affected side—is complained of. With this there is not unfre(piently vertigo, and an ' Ball et Krisliaber, Diet. Encyclop. des Sciences MeJ., Art. Cerveau, p. 448. 1879. VOL. V.—11