414 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. unoccluded nostril—the best method—or b}" the use of the nasal douche, the can being well elevated to render the pressure strong; or the posterior nasal syringe may sometimes succeed in driving out the foreign body, if it be not firmly imjiacted, by the mere mechanical force of the stream of water. Cohen recommends that curved bougies or probes be passed up behind the velum into the occluded nostril, and the foreign body thus pushed forwards. He also alludes to the method pursued by aurists to remove bodies impacted in the external auditory meatus—by placing a brush, loaded with glue or other adhe- sive fluid, in contact with it, and allowing it to remain until firmly adherent, so that the brush can be used as a tractor—as applicable in the removal of cer- tain classes of foreign bodies from the nose. When the foreign body is large, and perhaps firmly imbedded in the soft parts, it must be seized directly by means of the fenestrated scoop, slender hook, curved probe, or small, slender forceps, made in two distinct portions which may be introduced separately, one on each side of the foreign body, and afterwards locked together like mid- wifery forceps. Some care, and a little attention devoted to the peculiarities of each case that may he treated, will render easy the choice of the special instrument best adapted to the extraction of the foreign body. For instance, I have on a few occasions been able to hook a small probe into the eye of a button firmly fixed in the nostril, and thus readily remove it. The forceps would have but pushed it further into the nasal passage. The latter is a not unfrecpient occurrence, which renders subsequent efibrts at removal anteriorly even more difficult. Even with care, it is sometimes not to be avoided, and the question arises, when, from its location, size, and impaction, a foreign body cannot by any gentle means be removed through the anterior nares, whether it should not be pushed backwards into the pharynx, either there to he caught and extracted, or, as is commonly the case, to be swallowed and afterwards discharged by the rectum. Mj" own experience is, that when necessary (I do not hold that it is desirable) this may be done with impunity. I have never met with the danger so forcibly alluded to by some writers, viz., that of the foreign body falling into the larynx; nor have I found it necessary to follow their advice and protect the entrance to this organ. The results where I have followed out this plan of treatment, unsurgical I admit, have been favorable. In a case reported by Morrman, a foreign body, lodged far back in the nasal passage, was pushed forwards within reach of the forceps by closing the mouth with the hand, so as to cause the patient to breath alone through the nose. In rare instances, where extraction is impossible by any of the above means, it may he necessary to gain direct access to the point of impaction by means of some form of external excision. The operations that have been emplo^’ed are: the division of the wing of the nose (Vidal); division in the median line (Dieflen- bach); and raising the whole nose by means of an incision through the gingival margin of the upper lip, and thence dissecting upwards (Rouge). Finally, to proceed to the other extreme, Watson alludes to the possibility of leaving the foreign body to be extracted, partlj^ by nature’s efibrts and partly by the assistance of art. In process of time ulceration will take place around it, and this will have the effect of loosening it from the bed in which it has been so tightly wedged ; then, by using the douche apparatus through the opposite nostril, it may be dislodged and expelled. Hasal Calculi, or Rhinolites. Calcareous concretions are occasionally encountered in the nasal fossae, their origin, probabl}', being always due to hard foreign bodies which have been