824 INJUllIES OF THE CHEST. To test this theory I administered to the patient oily draughts, mucilaginous drinks variously stained, egg-tiip, and the like. All these stained the compresses unaltered. Having examined carefully the form and dimensions of tlie bayonet which had inflicted the injury, 1 concluded that the wound of the oesophagus must be of very small size, as the weapon must have been stopped by the spine in transfixing it. Two means sug- gested themselves for treatment—either to use the tube of the stomach-pump to feed the patient, or to stop altogether, or as far as possible, swallowing of food or drink. I adopted the latter, as the simplest and least inconvenient. It was the more easily adopted as the thirst had become less urgent in consequence of the diminution of fever. The patient submitted readily. I permitted him only to clear the mouth, from time to time, with a little flake of orange, and gave him nutrient enemata. Enfeebled by the bleedings and antiphlogistic treatment, the patient experienced at the end of four days cravings that could not be satisfied by the new diet. I yielded to his entreaties, and let him swallow a few spoonfuls of drink. The fluid which the wound yielded was not made more abundant, and presently this discharge was pus only, which I attributed to the entire absorption of the liquid previously extravasated. At last, confirmed by success, I administered nutritive drinks, and finally solid food The patient’s strengtli returned slowly, and not before many months was he able to return to duty. A case illustrating the more probable result in this injury is quoted in the “ LeQons Orales” of Dupuytren— A woman was brought to the Hotel Dieu for a deep wound inflicted by a knife above the clavicle of the left side. She died on the seventh or eighth day after her admission. At the autopsy, astonishment was expressed at finding the left side of the chest filled with the drink, and even with some of the solid food, which the patient had taken. The whole was mixed with pus. A large wound existed in the thoracic portion of the oesophagus; the food and drink had not escaped externally, and no sign during life suggested any lesion of this part. But a single example is noted in tbe report of tbe War of tbe American Bebellion,^ an instance of laceration witbout complete penetration of tbe cesopbagus by bullet injury, discovered only by post-mortem examination. In tliese examples of tbis rare lesion, we tind no mention of tbe symptoms of wound of tbe oesopliagus relied on by some—tbirst and biccup (Modiere).^ Tbe positive sign relied on by Boyer remains : “Mais le signe non equivoque est la sortie des boissons et des alimens par la plaie.”^ Tbe objection to tbe eonclusiveness of tbis sign wbicb bas been raised (Ivnott),^ tbat wound of tbe larynx may be mistaken for tliat of tbe cesopbagus, in consequence of tbe escape of liquids wbicb bave entered tbe wounded larynx in individuals suf- fering from grave depression, applies only to wounds of tbe neck, not to penetrating wounds of tbe cbest. Wounds of tbe tboracic portion of tbe cesopbagus by bard and pointed ingesta, its ruptures during vomiting, and tbe occurrence of ulceration, abscess, or diftuse inflammation of tbe medias- tinum, induced by impaction of angular fragments of bone in tbe tube, lie outside tbe range of an article on injuries of tbe cbest, in tbe ordiuaiy acceptation of tbe term. Our knowledge of tbe pbenomena attending tbe lesions of tbe intra-tboracic portions of eitber tbe par vagum., tbe phrenic^ or tbe sympathetic nerves^ is as yet, as far as regards tbeir relations to tbe symptoms of penetrating wounds of tbe cbest, too imperfect to justify any conclusions of practical importance. In a similar state is tbe information at our command regarding wounds of tbe thoracic duct. 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Part First, Surgical volume, p. 506. 2 Archives Genfirales de Medicine, 2e s6rie, t. ii. p. 520. 3 [But the unequivocal symptom is the escape of drinks and food hy the wound.] ^ Pathology of the GSsophagus.