URINARY FISTULA. 9G1 tion or gangrene set up by gall-stones witliin tlie gall-bladder or bile-ducts. At. Faueonneau-Dutresne* lias collected cases of fistula between the gall-blad- der and pelvis of the right kidney, vagina,^ and portal vein.^ Dr. Cayley^ lias reported a case in which, in consecpience of the impaction of a stone in the common duct, a fistulous communication was formed through the dia- phragm between the left pleural cavity and a cystic dilatation of one of the bile-ducts in the left lobe of the liver. Alurchison® in one instance found the gall-bladder communicating with tlie duodenum, the colon, and the external surface ; and Bristowe® found the com- mon bile-duct communicating with the colon, the duodenum, and the portal vein. Dr. Coupland met with a case in the post-mortem room at the Middle- sex Hospital, in which a number of Ifiliary calculi, varying in size from that of a millet-seed to that of a poppy-seed, were found in distinct groups outside the gall-bladder, encysted in peritoneal adhesions. The case is of interest, as showing that calculi may escape from the gall-bladder or passages into tlie peri- toneal cavity, without necessarily exciting fatal peritonitis.'^ Cj’stico-colic fis- tula is usually associated with cancer of the gall-bladder, l)ut it may l,»e simple. Cystico-duodenal fistula is likely to lead to impaction of the cal- culus and obstruction of the bowels. The opening is generally situated in the third part of the duodenum. In cystico-gastric fistula the opening will probably be found close to the pylorus. Cruveilhier was of opinion that the fact of vomiting a gall-stone proved the existence of such a fistula. The symptoms of cystico-gastric and intestinal fistulie due to gall-stones are usually slight and obscure; jaundice is rarely present, as the common duct is usually patent, and only occasionally is there a history of gall-stone colic with jaun- dice. Vomiting, with more or less colic, and tenderness in the region of the gall-bladder, are the commonest symptoms; hfematemesis and bloody stools have been known. In cystico-urinary fistula the symptoms have been renal, not hepatic, but it must be remendiercd that cholesterine may be found in tlie urine though no such fistula exists. Urinary Fistul^e. Urinary fistulie are of many varieties, and might be classified, (1) as to the part of the urinary oigans with which they communicate; (2) as to the part of the surface at which they establish an opening ; (3) as to their causes ; and (4) as to their characters, namely, as to whether they are sini})le, or callous, or attended with loss of tissue.® AJany of the forms of urinary fistula which arise, for exam])le, from stricture or abscess of the perineum, I am not expected to describe here; and I shall therefore confine my remarks chiefly to those which open on the surface of some part of the abdo- men, merely enumerating others which consist in a communication between some part of the urinary organs and the viscera within the cavities of the abdomen and j)elvis. Fistula? which communicate with the Kidney and Pelvis of Kidney.— These may he caused {a) by incised, punctured, or gunshot wounds, (b) by injury inflicted during surgical operations, and (c) liy disease. The records ’ La Bile et ses Maladies. Mem. ile I’Acad. Roy. de M6d., tome xiii. p. 341. 1847. ^ Ibid., p. 1.5!). 3 Il)id., p. 340. ■■ Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xvii. p. 1(11. 5 Lectures ou Diseases of tbe Liver, p. 534, Case XCIV. ® Trans. Patli Soe. Loud., vol. ix. ]>. 285. ' See Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., vol. xxviii. p. 157. ** See .1. A. .lagielski, De listulis urinariis adjecta hnjns morbi liistoria. VOL. V. G1