HERNIA. 1154 Between the two layers are found the scqohena vein^ to the inner side (see Fig. 1126, page 1127), with several of its tributaries accompanying the ascending branches of the common femoral artery, viz., the siqMrficial cir- cumflex iliac, passing upwards and outwards towards the iliac crest, atid piercing the deep fascia at the outer third; the Siqyerficial epigctstric, cours- ing upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus ; the superficial external pudic, passing also upwards and inwards, crossing the cord just below the superfioial abdominal ring; the deep external pudAc, perforating the fascia lata and ci’ossing horizontally behind the spermatic cord towards the penis. Lying along the saphena vein, on both sides, are the l3anphatics of the lower inguinal region, ducts and glands. The former receive ti-ibutaries which pass with the vessels just mentioned, and the latter, of an oval shape, with their long axes corresponding to the axis of the body, chiefly over a de- pression indicating the opening in the deep fascia wliich transmits the saphena vein, and through which the lymphatics make their way into the crural canal, and thence to the iliac glands in the abdominal cavity. A few nerve- twigs are also met with, viz., branches of the ilio-ingained, which pass with the spermatic cord through the superficial abdominal ring, and tm-n down- ward and outward over the end of Poupart’s ligament, to be distributed over the adductor region of the thigh; and a crural branch of the genito-crured nerve, which perforates the deep fascia about an inch below the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and joins with the middle cutaneous branches of the anterior crural which are distributed over the middle of Scarpa’s triangle. The internal and external cutaneous branches of the same nerve perforate the deep fascia much lower down in the thigh. The/ascia lata of the thigh is thus exposed to view, thick, dense, and gray- ish white, with little or no fat except wdiere tlie vessels and nerves pierce it, covering the femoral vessels and crfiral nerves, and inclosing externally the sartorius muscle in its sheath. Above, the fascia lata is blended firmly with that portion of the external olflicpie aponeurosis which forms Poupart’s ligament along its whole length. This is called the iliac portion of the fascia lata (see Fig. 1126, m, page 1127). The inner portion, which covers the adductor muscles of the thigh (Fig. 1126, n), is attached above to the sjnn- physis pubis, the pubic spine, and the pectineal line, where it blends with the triangular ottset of Poupart’s ligament which is called Gimbernafs liga- ment. Outside of this, the pubic portion of the fascia lata passes behind the femoral vessels and is blended with the capsular ligament of the hip- joint. The pubic portion thus dips deeply behind the iliac portion, which overlaps it at the inner third of the thigh, and between them is the saphe- noiis opening. This is an oval opening, from an inch and a half to two inches in its longitudinal diameter and three-cpiarters of an inch transversely. 'When dissected, it is seen to present an external arched or curved border, the upper part of Avhich {Hey’s, or the femoixd ligament) curves imvards to the pubic spine and pectineal line, across the crural canal, where it is about half an inch wide, and so strong as sometimes to cause strangulation in a cru- ral hernia. At its lower part, the curved border of tlie saplienous opening arches under the saphena vein, forming a shai-p curve, the falciform process of Burns. On the inner side, the o})ening is bounded by the sloping surface of the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The opening is covered in l)y a fascia which is closely adherent to the latter internally, and to the edge of the falciform process and Iley’s ligament externally. This covering is continuous with the deep layer of superficial fascia. It is perforated by numei’ous open- ings for the passage of the lymphatic ducts into the crural canal, and for the superficial epigastric and external pubic vessels, which curve upwards. It