SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 883 2 Ti'ans. Path. Soc. Lond., vol. xix. p. 259. * Lancet, May 20, 1883. Treatment of Rupture of the Solid Viscera.—In all cases in which contusion or rupture of the solid viscera of the abdomen is suspected, absolute rest in bed must be observed; the administration of solids by the mouth must be avoided; and anodynes should be subcutaneously injected, to ease pain and allay restlessness and tossing about. The internal use of gallic acid, ergot, and iron, has been recommended to check hemorrhage, and should be tried ; or little pieces of ice may be sucked. Pain will sometimes be assuaged by strapping the affected side, a practice which assists in keeping all the parts quiet, and which by gentle compression tends to limit and control hemorrhage. The bowels ought not to be disturbed for several days. Only fluids, a"nd those only in small quantities at a time, should be allowed, for two or three weeks at least. In cases of injured kidney, this is very important; tor fluids tend to increase the activity of the kidneys, and in Hilton’s case above alluded to, the patient at his own earnest request was allowed a little solid food on the eighth day, from which time fresh hemorrhage occurred, and the case went rapidly from bad to worse. In all abdominal injuries in which hemor- rhage is to be feared, and as little intestinal activity as possible is wanted, solid food of every sort is to be forbidden; for it stimulates the action of the heart, and gives the muscular coats of the bowel more to do. If peritonitis occurs, it must be dealt with as directed elsewhere; if abscess forms, it should be opened and drained. In renal injuries, if prolonged and ex- hausting suppuration of the kidney occurs, the question of nephrectomy should be well considered ; and, indeed, if the indications of ruptured kidney oi’ pelvis are marked, and the gravity of the case great, nephrectomy will in future be probably adopted, as giving the best prospect of recovery. If clots accumu- late in the bladder, or are forced into the urethra, and there give rise to such pain and distress as was witnessed in Mr. Hilton’s patient, median urethrotomy, or lateral cystotomy if I’equisite, should be performed ; the bladder could then be washed out, and the clots discharged through the ivound in tlie perineum. I well remember this proceeding being discussed in the case referred to, and feel sure that it would have saved much suffering had it been performed. Mr. Rawdonh of Liverpool, has recently })ut this treatment to the test of practice, though, unfortunately, at too late a period in the course of the case. If the blood-clots are very small, thej^ can be voided through the urethra, and do not set up vesical disease ; or they escape easily, after wash- ing out the bladder through a full-sized catheter. When of larger size, the patient ought not to be deprived of the relief of a median perineal incision of the uretlira, which should be followed up by a lateral incision of the prostate, if more room for escape is requisite. Rupture of the Gall-bladder and the Biliary Ducts.—Riqitnre of the gall-bladder, or ot the cystic, hepatic, or common bile-ducts, or of the biliary canals within the substance ot the liver, may occur as the result of eithei’ external violence, such as a blow on the alidonien, or excessive dilatation from sclerosis ot their coats, compression Iq^ new growths, impaction of calculi, or other patliological processes leading to nlceration or sloughing of their walls. There is the authority of Rokitansky for saying that the gall-bladder occasionally gives way by ulceration set up by gall-stoia^s, and that'death from peritonitis, due to extravasation of bile into the peritoneal cavity, is the result. Such a case, in which death followed three days after tlie rupture, is recorded in the London Pathological Society’s Transactions,^ and many others are to be found in pathological records.