WOUNDS OF TUB LAKYNX AND TRACHEA. 629 wounds of the larynx. They are usually associated with rapture of one or more intercartilaginous lio'aments, or with i’U[)ture of the trachea from the cricoid cartilage. Sometimes they are associated with longitudinal fractures of one or more rings; and sometimes with comminuted fractures, as when the I’esult of crushing violence.^ Sometimes they are associated with lacera- tion or rupture of the membranous wall, either with or without perforation into the oesophagus. Ilemorrhagic extravasations may be very extensive. In most instances these wounds are associated with wounds of the larynx, similar or still more severe. Pancfitred wounds of the Uarynx are usually accidental, as from falls upon pointed objects. Legouest^ lias reported one in which the tine of a pitchfork perforated the larynx from right to left. Sometimes they are the result of homicidal attacks witli sliarp or pointed weapons; occasionally they are suicidal. INIodern military records seem to furnish few examples of bayonet wound of the air-passage. Only nine bayonet or sabre-wounds of the neck are recorded in the History of the War of the liebellion, and in none of these had the air-passage been implicated. Durliam, however,^ relates the case of a patient under his care in Ouy’s Hospital, London, whose larynx had been wounded by a bayonet during this war. According to the same author, punc- tured wounds through the thyroid cartilage occasionally penetrate between the vocal bands, or injure one or both of them ; oedema of the glottis(?) ensuing almost invariably, and producing death by suffocation. A case is quoted from Sir Charles Bell in wliicli suffocation from exuberant granulations ensued some months after a wound in this situation, inflicted with a penknife. The wound in the integument may be trifling. Emphysema is a frequent complication, and may produce severe dyspnma. Fanctared woicnds of the trachea are due to the same class of causes as are punctured wounds of the larynx. Beaclff has I'eported a case of perforation of the trachea by the tine of a pitchfork. Such an injury from a sword has been recorded lyy Bare,® and one from the point of a closed pair of scissors, by AV. F. Atlee.® Three instances of penetration of the tracliea in injecting bronchocele have been i7ientioned by Mackenzie,^ in one of which persistent haemoptysis ensued. Emphysema of the neck is quite a common result in punctured wounds of the trachea, and general eni}>hysema may reach alarm- ing proportions within a few hours.® Incised wounds of he larynx are moi’e frequent than those of all other varie- ties together. Surgical wounds for operative purposes will not be discusseil in this connection. Incised wounds may involve not only the integument and the structures of the air-passages, hut also the muscles, bloodvessels, nerves, submaxillary glands, and tongue. Occasionally accidental, as in falling upon a sharp object, such as a fragment of glass or crockery, and sometimes due to homicidal attacks, most wounds of this class are suicidal. In some wars they are produced by saljre-cuts. (Pare, Legouest.)® It has been estimated statis- tically that of 459.3 suicides in France, 125 had cut their throats and that of 6696 cases of suicide in England, between 186-3 and 1867, 1235 were cases of cut-throat.’^ Quite a large proportion of suicidal wounds are seen in insane subjects and ' See Fractures. 2 Ilorteloui), Plaies ilu larynx, de la traeliee et de l’a?soi)liaf;e, p. .51. Paris, 1869. ^ Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 689. Am. ed., 1882. New York Med. .Tour., March, 1877, p. 302. ® (Euvres completes, ed. par Malgaigne, t. iv., liv. 8, chap. xxx. ; Mackenzie, Diseases of the Tliroat and Nose, vol. i. p. 540. London, 1880. ® Am. .Tour. Med. Sciences, April, 1878, p. 439. * Beach, loc. cit. Brierre de Boismont, Du Suicide. Paris, 1856. ’’ Op. cit., ]). 540, note. 8 llorteloup, op. cit., pp. 53-55. Durham, oj). cit., vol. i. p. 684.