( 825 ) DISEASES OF THE BREAST. BY THOMAS ANNANDALE, E.R.C.S.E., REGIUS PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH AND SENIOR SURGEON TO THE EDINBURGH ROYAL INFIRMARY. It is proposed to consider the Aflections of the Breast under the following heads;— (1) Anatomy of the Breast; (2) Congenital Peculiarities of the Breast; (3) Functional and Sympathetic Conditions of the Breast; (4) Atrophy and Hypertrophy of the Breast; (5) Inflammatory Affections of the Breast; (6) Irritable Breast; (7) Tubercular and Syphilitic Affections of the Breast; (8) Parasitic Affections of the Breast; (fl) Affections of the Aipples; (10) Tumors of the Breast; (11) Affections of the Male Breast. Anatomy of the Mammae. The chief points of interest to the practical surgeon under this head are the following: — Connections and Boundakies.—These organs, as is well known, vary much in size and in feel in different women, and at different }>eriods of life, and such variety is the result, in some instances, of functional changes; in others, it is due to the condition and amount of the fatty and other textures covering and surrounding the breasts, and in others again both these circumstances may affect their normal condition. Although these changes in size and feel occur, it may he considered, for all practical purposes, that except in the case of very pendulous breasts, the true glandular substance of the organ retains the same connections under all the alterations i-eferred to. The exact boundaides of the gland-substance are not always distinctly deflned, and it is not uncommon to find processes of the glandular structure passing into the surrounding fatty tissue, and so encircled by it as to appear to be isolated from the lireast itself. This fact is of importance in connec- tion with the question of thorough operation in cancer of the gland. The base of each gland, almost circular in shape, rests upon the fascia covering the anterior aspect of the pectoralis major, serratus magnus, and internal olflique muscles, and is connected to it by a layer of areolar tissue. It extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and its greatest diameter is transversely upwards and outwards towards the axilla. It is also important to note that the axillary and central portions are thicker than the other por- tions, and that one breast—usually the left—is, as a rule, larger than the other. Superficially, the ordinary integument, and more or less fatty tissue, cover the glands, and passing from the former to the latter are numerous pi ’Ocesses or lamiucC of fibrous tissue, which surround and strengthen the