DISEASES OF THE TEAR PASSAGES. 279 passed along the slit-up canal, till the edges cease to adhere. By this means the punctuni is transferred to a point where the tears can reach it. In very rare cases, troublesome weeping seems due to a hypersecretion of tears alone. In spite of the regular action of the ducts, the eye overflows as a stream in a Fig. 878. Weber’s probe-knife. freshet. But the most frequent cause of persistent weeping, is inflammation and obstruction of the lachrymal passages. The force of the inflammation seems to centre in the sac, but the stricture is located in the nasal duct. This condition usually comes on very slowly. Months and even years pass before it reaches a climax. The weeping sometimes disappears in summer, to reappear the following winter, and is always worse out-doors, and in windy, cold weather. At last it becomes constant, the region of the tear sac begins to bulge, and pressure over the sac causes a reflux of mucus or pus through the puncta. With this history, and these developments, the diagnosis of chronic dacryocystitis is established. By slow degrees the lachrymal tumor increases. Some time or other, pressure will fail to empty the collection, and the patient willjiave acute inflammation and abscess of the tear sac, and, these attacks following at variable intervals, fistula lachrymalis will finally be the result. Dacryocystitis and Lachrybial Fistula.—Acute inflammation of the sac, abscess, and fistula, are rarely seen, exce}>t when preceded by the above symptoms. When the seat and anatomical relations of the tear sac are kept in view, the diagnosis is easy. The tendon of the orbicularis passes across the anterior wall of the sac, and is always raised by the tumor. Pressure over the known region of the sac Avill generally empty it, forcing the contents through the nasal duct, or back upon tlie eye. In acute suppu- rative inflammation of the sac, the point tender to pressure is limited to that region. The seat of greatest swelling and tenderness, the previous history of weeping and other functional troubles, will make it impossible to confound the disease with facial erysipelas, a furuncle over the sac, or anything else. Lachrymal fistula is always below the tendon, and near the orbital margin. The presence of a fistula above this tendon, anywhere over the upper and inner margin of the orbit, creates at once the suspicion of disease of the frontal sinus. Several such cases have been referred to me as examples of lachrymal fistula. Of course, periostitis, or disease of the os unguis and other bones forming the lachrymal groove and nasal duct, might be confounded with the malady under consideration. But the peculiar history and complications in each case, will clear up the diflerential diagnosis. I have seen two cases of cyst in the ethmoid bone, resembling lachrymal tumor. Scrofulous subjects, and espe- cially those with persistent ozfena, are the most constant victims of obstruc- tion in the tear passages. In all persons afflicted liy chronic inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, tear-sac difficulties are liable to occur. Rarely, conjunctivitis, acute or chronic, seems to follow the canaliculi into the sac, causing gi’anulations and obstruction. Further than the fact that these local and constitutional peculiarities predispose to this class of diseases, we know but little of their etiology. We very seldom see them in sound people, with healthy mucous membranes. Troubles of the tear sac rarely recover spon- taneously, and, when they do, it is after an acute abscess. The treatment may be palliative or curative. Gentle pi’essure, twice a day or oftener, to keep the