266 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. or less effect produced b}" a perfect tenotomy depends more on the activity of the antagonist, and its subsequent shortening, tlian on the elongation of the divided muscle. Hence, in cases of contraction from paralysis of the antagonist, or from a previous and excessive operation, tenotomy has no effect except to increase the already unsightly exophthalmus. A well- timed and extended advancement is the only rational interference in such cases. While tenotomy sets the tendon back, and Aveakens its effect, advancement sets it forwards and increases its action. Tenotomy produces exophthalmus ; advancement helps to diminish it. Tenotomy is always practised on the too much contracted muscle, Avhile advancement is employed for that which is elongated and weakened, on purpose to shorten it and increase its poAver. Ad- vancement seems a more rational Avay of restoring equilibrium betAveen muscles than tenotomy. But, oAving mainly to the difficulty in its execution, it is not often resorted to, except to correct over-effects or deviation from paral}’sis. In most, if not in all cases, hoAvever, of so-called latent strabismus, or insuffi- ciency, adA'ancement promises more certain relief than tenotomy. Theoretic- ally, the ncAv insertion may not be symmetrical Avith the original attachment, and may result in diplopia and other binocular inconveniences. But this has not been realized in practice. Whether the advanced tendon has been spread a little more or less, or Avhetber the upper edge has been advanced a little more than the loAver, seems not to exercise any serious influence on the future use of the eyes. Even in extreme cases of insufficiency from excessive tenotomy, and in those of rigid contraction from paralysis, it is astonishing hoAV much may be gained by this operation. I have advanced totally inactive muscles left by excessive strabismus operations, twenty years befoi’e, Avith very great improA^e- ment in appearance, and Avith reasonable restoration of motor activity. It seems that complete severance of a tendon from all connection Avith the globe, even for long years, does not lead to atrophy and uselessness of the muscle. When reunitecl, in a fa\mrable position, it soon discharges its functions Avell. My OAvn advancements, and many others Avhich I have seen, have given very gratifying results. Indications for this operation Avill certainly increase Avith further experience. The little more time and trouble required for executing a successful advancement, should not weigh against the best interests of the patient and of enlightened surgery. The operation is performed as folioaa's; The patient having been rendered thoroughly unconscious with ether, and the eye being held open by a spec- ulum, as in strabotomy, the ball is seized by strong flxation forceps near the margin of the cornea, directly opposite the muscle to be advanced. It is then firmly rotated in that direction, so as to expose the region to be dissected. Held thus by an aid, the surgeon seizes a fold of conjunctiva, about tAVO mm. from the corneal margin, and divides it vertically for five or six mm., and Avith repeated touches separates it from the sclera over the muscular inser- tion, and farther back. When the tendinous attachment is found, the blunt hook is passed under the tendon, so as to raise it and make it tense. Holding it thus firmly, one blade of a toothed forceps is passed behind and one in front of it, so as to seize and hold it tight!}'. Then Avith the scissors, it is detached close to the sclera and held and lifted fonvards, so that it may be pierced with tlie needle from behind fonvards. A Avell-Avaxed thread eighteen inches or tAvo feet long is sufficient. Tins is armed Avith a needle placed in the middle, and with another needle near each end. The main needle, fixed Avith Sands’s holder (Fig. 876), is then passed through the middle of the raised and stretched tendon, from behind, and about four mm. from the forceps. The needle may be passed fonvards under the conjunctiva, finally piercing it near the cut e<lge. The holder removed, the needle is seized and draAvn through five or six inches. Then one of the other needles is fixed and care-