225 DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. in the most hopeless cases, have been published from time to time, and ad- verse criticism has always come from those who have never tried the remedy. In 1855, Warlomont published a paper in high praise of this heroic treat- ment, in extreme cases, especially where the cornere of both eyes were covered by pannus. In 1857 I myself published a paper on the subject, with the history of a very successful case. As the patient could see a little with one eye, I inoculated only the bad one, sealing up the other and keeping it free. After the subsidence of the violent reaction, I left the other eye open purposely, although only the upper half of the cornea was vascularized. On the third day this eye was attacked, but less severely, and the disease passed its climax spontaneously on the fourth day. From this time the lids of both eyes were everted, and brushed with a twenty-grain solution of nitrate of silver, once a day for eight days, when all suppuration had ceased. The granulations, which were enormous, completely disappeared ; the sight of both eyes was so far restored as to enable the patient to read; and the last news I had from him, twelve months afterwards, he was following a threshing machine. He left the hospital seven weeks after the inoculation of the first eye, and three weeks after that of the second. I treated a number of cases by this means, and most of them with prompt success. They were all what might be called almost hopeless. Afterwards, I tried it as a last resource in the case of a little boy. Both of the eyes were lost by ulceration of the cornea. In this case I hardly had any hope of success, but the granulations were cured, and the patient was soon comfortable. In a second paper (October, 1857), I said; “ The more advanced the pannus, by which I mean the more completely the cornea is covered with vessels and exudation, the less danger is there in the treatment. If the vasculo-membranous layer covers the entire cornea, and is so thick that the pupil can scarcely be seen, if at all, then there is very little risk in the procedure, and you are almost sure to lestore the patient’s sight, provided that the true substance of the cornea is not the seat of an incurable leucoma.” If the pannus is only partial, some parts of the cornea remaining clear, or if though general it is so thin that clear spaces are left between the vessels, through which the pupil is distinctly visible, tlien there is more danger to be apprehended from the application of the pus. The thick, patho- logical coating formed by the pannus protects the tissue of the cornea from the violence of the infiammation produced by the matter, and wherever such a protection does not exist, softening and sloughing, or ulceration, are liable to occur. But my impression is, from what I have observed, that undue importance has been attached to the contra-indication afforded by the partial transparency of the cornea, for in one of the eyes which I treated thus, there were several portions of the organ that were merely slightly hazy, and traversed only here and there by minute vessels. At several points the pupil could be distinctly seen, and yet I allowed the infiammation to go on unintluenced by treatment, and the cornea did not sutler the slightest injury. The great danger from gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis, Avhen it attacks a previously liealtliy eye, is sloughing of the cornea from the violence of the inflammatory reaction, and more especially, perhaps, from the strangulation caused by the pressure of the chemosis. Now, where there is a panniform condition of the organ, aside from the mere protection afforded by the new formation, it is much less likely to^slough, because it is nourished by the new vessels, and the circu- lation in it is not so easily cut ofi' by the swelling. For the same reason, we seldom see sloufirhins: of the cornea to a lari>;e extent after it has become vascularized in acute keratitis. In a case of granular lids, then, Avitli even a moderate number of vessels scattered over the cornea, though the pupil is visible through nearly every part of it, I think that there is no very great VOE. V.—15