894 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. A restricted diet, gentle laxatives if the bowels are constipated, and opium if there be restlessness or pain, should be given. In the majority of cases, incised wounds of the abdomen heal by primary adhesion if the above points of treatment have been attended to, and if the health, habits, and temperament of the individual are such as to favor cpiick and good repair. In other cases, healing takes place by the process of granu- lation in one of its various forms.* Punctured wounds are produced by spikes, nails, needles, daggers, bayonets, lancets, foils, swords, the horns of animals, splinters of wood, and other such like things. The wounds for the most part correspond in size and shape to the instruments by which they are inflicted ; those that are caused by sharp weapons approach in character to incised wounds, whilst those that are caused by blunt instruments resemble contused wounds ; in other words, sharp bodies perforate tissues by cutting, blunt ones by crushing or tearing. Punctured wounds are sometimes called “ perforated,” but in the ease of the abdomen it must be remembered that they are not necessarily “ penetrating” in the sense of perforating the peritoneum. In punctured wounds, the tissues may be transfixed obliquely or at right angles; they are usually somewhat smaller than the inflicting body, but of the same general shape. They are but rarely followed by much, if any, bleeding ; as a rule the vessels escape or are pushed aside, and, even if they are wounded, the blood is poured out into the subcutaneous or inter-muscular tissues, and ecchymosis appears at a longer or shorter time after the injury. If an artery be wounded, a false aneurism may form; if both an artery and vein, an arterio-venous or varicose aneurism may follow. If a nerve or one of its filaments be injured, there will he immediate pain; and unless it be com- pletely divided, it may give rise to prolonged suflering over the whole area in which the nerve-trunk is distributed. At a later period, pain will be excited b}^ the pi’essure of eflused blood or of inflammatory fluids. If the wound be deep, sevei’e consequences are likely to follow, such as traumatic peritonitis ; inflammation or suppuration in the different layers of the abdominal walls, which frequently simulate, even when they do not cause, peritonitis ; cuta- neous or cellulo-cutaneous eiysipelas; septicjemia, pysemia, and death. Inflam- mation is a frequent consequenceof punctured wounds,and will almost certainly follow when they have been inflicted by a rusty, dirty, or blunt instrument. It spends itself chiefly on the deeper structures, and is prone to run on into suppuration, the symptoms attending which are sometimes of a tyjihoid character, and then not rarely prove fatal. Wlien inflammation occurs, the wound swells, becomes red, painful, throbbing, Iiard, and tender, and ceases to discharge if it has previously done so ; the pulse and temperature rise; tlie abdonien swells, grows hard and tense ; coughing and perhaps even quiet respiration is painful ; rigors usher in suppuration ; cold, hot, and sweating stages, like ague, may repeat themselves; vomiting follows, and hiccough, cold sweats, "great restlessness and sickening exhaustion precede death. Except in the superficial tissues, where fluctuation can easily he made out, the presence of pus can only he surmised by the constitutional symptoms, and by local fulness, hardness, and tenderness. The pus may burrow amongst the muscles widely, and when suppuration occurs behind tlie rectus, it may spread from xiphoid to pubis, without pointing or giving a distinct sense of fluctuation. ' Sometimes the matter points a long distance from the wound, as in the case of a soldier who, as related by Petit,^ was wounded by a sword 1 See Article on Wounds, Vol. II. pp. 18, 19, supra. “ Quoted by Uuthrie.