226 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. liability to ulceration, especially if the case be carefully watched and the inflammation promptly cut short on the first unfavorable symptom, as it almost certainly may he by the energetic application of nitrate of silver. It is a rare thing for a well-informed ophthalmologist to lose an eye affected with gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, if he sees it and treats it from the veiy com- mencement. Why, then, should he not he able to control the disease when artificially produced in an eye protected by a previous development of vessels ? But experience alone can settle this opiestion. As to the indications for a resort to this treatment, they are few and sim- ple. The first reason for inoculating a patient is that 3’ou have tried every- thing else, and have failed to cure him. After a fair experiment with the other agents recommended, if you fail to effect a cure, then you are certainly justi- fiable in essaying a measure that has rendered such signal services under similar circumstances. I say, after a fair tried, because I do not believe in waiting till the eyes are destroyed, or the coniea? so far disorganized that a cure is next to impossible. The sooner the remed}' is applied, all things be- ing favorable, the more likel}' vee are to have a satisfactory issue. Patients may be cured in six weeks by inoculation, who would sutier for years, and perhaps never recover, under the ordinary treatment. The same treatment, for tlie same reasons, has been more recently advocated by ;M. Ch. Abadie. Ills ability to control the violence of the reaction by brushing the everted lids twice a day with a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver, prompts him to advise a more frecpient resort to this therapeutic agent. As an illustration of the thoroughness and promptness of this mode of treatment, as well as of its only danger, ulceration of the cornea, I give the following brief history:— A very strumous lad, 17 years of age, came for treatment April 15, 1882. He was the victim of an acute attack of trachoma, of four weeks’ duration. There was enormous thickening of the eyelids, lips, and nose. The granulations showed an exuberance such as I had seldom if ever seen. The right cornea was clear and intact, but the left showed some symptoms of superficial keratitis. He was treated for seven weeks, in the usual careful way, with some improvement. Early in June, he was taken with a violent purulent relapse which we could not certainly trace to inoculation. Taken at once to the Cincinnati Hospital, he was subjected to the most rigid treatment by Dr. S. C. Ayres. For two weeks, iced compresses were applied day and night. The lids were everted and brushed freely with a five-grain solution of nitrate of silver, twice a day, and were well washed off with water after each application. Both corneaj ulcerated in the centre, the ulceration on tlie left side ending in limited perforation with synechia anterior. On June 26, he went home much improved. In the begin- ning of September, he returned perfectly well. There were no traces of granulations, and but very small central opacities of the cornese. On the 11th of December, he wrote that his eyes had slowly ini|)roved in sight, that lie had had no back-set, and that he could read half an hour without fatigue; and he asked if he could safely go to school. This patient’s general health was, and had ever been, wretched. Quite recently, DeWeeker lias i-ecommeuded the application of a watery solution of the seeds of the jequirity, as a safer substitute for inoculation. It is said to produce a milder form of suppuration from the conjunctiva, and to be ecptally etficient in its curative action. This remedy has long been in common use iu Brazil in the treatment of “sore cj’-es.” In rare cases, after the lids have finally healed and have become as smooth as they ever can be, and when all distortions—trichiasis, phimosis, etc.— have been relieved by appropriate surgical measures, a chronic, vascular, relapsing keratitis may persist and require treatment. In these cases I have often succeeded well with finely powdered sulphate of copper. The upper lid is everted, once or twice a week, and a little of the powder applied