DISEASES OP THE NASAL PASSAGES. 383 hypei’trophies located in the pharyngeal vault, the small acicular crystals being easily taken up upon a suitably curved, cotton-covered probe, and car- ried "behind the velum to the desired point. Glacial acetic acid is highly recommended by Bosworth and others as an application to the hypertrophied tissues located in the nasal passages, on account of its well-known affinity for epithelial cells, and its action on the localized hypertrophies of the superficial layers of the integument. It is certainly efficient in destroying tissue, and easy of application by means of the probe; it causes no secondary inflammation, nor too much destruction, and it gives rise to no excessive pain. I have used it also in many instances with complete satisfaction, and I regard it as specially adapted for the more recent and more moderate cases of hypertrophy. Nitrate of silver^ formeidy, and even to-day, extensively employed in this class of cases as a destructive agent, does not sustain its reputation. It causes but a superficial slough, and the application is of necessity frecpiently repeated in treating hypertrophied tissue of any extent. Moreover, owing to its powerfully stimulating qualities, it excites cell-proliferation and causes structural changes that are not desirable. After the use of any form of caustic in the nasal passages, immediately upon the withdrawal of the probe, the parts should be flooded with an alka- line solution ; the subsequent treatment of the case, at least until the slough has separated and the resultant ulcer healed, is based upon ordinary })rinci- ples of cleanliness. The actual cautery is seldom used, and possesses no special value to com- mend it. The galvano-cautery offers a most radical and efficient means of destroying the hypertrophic and vascular obstructions of both nares and upper pharyn- geal space, and is to-day widely employed for this purpose. Its action is rapid, but complete, and its use is not excessively painful. I believe, how- ever, that we may accomplish, in very many cases, the same results by the use of less heroic measures. When the hy})ertrophies are extensive, Seiler justly observes, that the knife should be at a cherry red when the incision is made, when there will be neither hemorrhage nor much pain. If the heat be too great, bleeding will follow the incision, and if not liot enough, the pain will Ije severe. The immediate result of the incision or cauteriza- tion is the formation of an eschar, and acute inflammation surrounding the burned portion of tissue; the ultimate result, the formation of bands of cicatricial tissue which by their contraction bind down the tissues, and thus relieve the stenosed condition of tlie nasal passage for which the opera- tion has been undertaken. The form of instrument to be enq>loyed to effect a given purpose, depends upon the choice of the operator and the special indications. Many varieties of electrode and aj)]^)ai’atus exist. Voltolini uses an electrode with a single wire-loop point; Michel, a wire-loop ecraseur; Thudichum, a wire loop; Bi’owne, a Indlet-shaped electrode ; Slmrley and Bosworth, a slender knife-electrode. Probably as convenient forms of elec- trode and handle as can be obtained for general use ai'c shown in tlie accom- panying figures (Pigs. 931, 932). As will be seen, they are adapted for the treatment of both the nasal passages and the vault of the pharynx. To protect the nasal passage during the introduction of an electrode into the anterior nares, the ingenious speculum of Slmrley, with its movable ivory slide to cover the septum, will be found convenient. During galvano-cautery operations upon the tissues at the vault of the [iharynx, it may be necessary, especially in patients with irritable throats, to tie the soft palate forwards, in tlie manner described upon page 3G4. In rnauy instances, the hypertro})hy of the tissues over the inferior turbi-