1058 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Op. cit., p. 40. Brit. Med. Joiirn., Dec. 5, 1874, p. 700. case recorded by Mr. Bryant, the post-mortem examination of which I made with my friend Mr. De’Ath, of Buckingdiam, the bladder was pushed quite high up out of the pelvis, and in the direction of the left hypochondrium. There had been long-standing urinary troubles, and retention at last became complete. I)r. Bright' gives two cases of hydatid in this situation, in one of wdiich there was incontinence of urine, and a tumor, giving the appear- ance of vesical distension, presented itself above the pubes, and flattened the otherwise unaltered bladder. AVhen discovered during life, as they most likely will be owing to the symptoms they excite, these cysts should be evacuated by puncture or inci- sion, if they cause inconvenience or distress. In a young woman under my charge, there was a large elastic swelling between the rectum and the uterus and vagina, causing much local and constitutional disturbance. A quantity of fluid was withdrawn by a puncture with a trocar and canula, passed into the cyst through the vaginal wall. Benefit was immediate, and the cure appa- rently permanent, for on readmission for another cause a year afterwards, there had been no reaccumulatiou. Cysts of the Abdominal Viscera. Simple, Watery, or Serous Cysts of the Liver.—These cysts occur either in the substance of the liver or just beneath its peritoneal covering. They may be either single or multiple, simple or multilocular, and may originate either by the dilatation of a biliary duct, or possibly by the expan- sion of a hepatic cell; or again by a new development altogether. Though not uncommonly existing of a small size, they sometimes attain very large dimensions, and encroach upon the diaphragm and surrounding abdominal organs. G-enerally they displace the intestines backwards, and therefore when they have grown so as to nearly fill the abdomen, and when their course and clinical history are not well known, they are liable to be mistaken for ovarian cysts. This mistake and the reasons for it are well illustrated in a ease recorded by Dr. Ward Cousins.'' The inner surface of these cysts exhibits the general characters of serous membrane, and the outer surface, when not imbedded in the substance of the liver, is covered with a layer of condensed cellular tissue of greater or less thickness. They contain a limpid, saline fluid, differing from hydatid fluid by being coagulable by heat, alcohol, and acids. They grow slowly and pain- lessly, until by their great size they press upon important structures or organs. Many pints of fluid, even two or three gallons, have been removed from some of these cysts, and when they have attained to this size they cannot be diagnosed from unilocular ovarian cysts except by close attention to their clinical history. When of much smaller size they move freely Avithin the abdomen, are noticeable as being connected Avith the upper part of the abdominal cavity and as therefore groAving doAviiAvards, and are sometimes spoken of as “ floating tumors.” Yet from renal tumors they may be dis- tinguished by the fact that right i-enal swellings have the ascending colon in front and to the inner side of them, and that left renal SAvelliiigs have the descending colon crossing their front surface, Avliei’eas these hepatic sAvellings are as a rule in front of the bowels. Brom hydatid cysts it is impossible to distinguish them except by the characters of the fluid Avhich they contain. From a perusal of a number of cases collected and recorded by Mr. Csesar