1022 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. into an artery, vein, or joint, is an accidental complication. It is, therefore, manifestly as absurd to regartl fecal abscesses as a form of disease sui generis^ as it Avould be to classify the others as “arterial abscesses,” “ venous abscesses,” “ articular abscesses,” etc. As all fecal abscesses come under one or other denomination—intra-perito- neal or extra-peritoneal—I must refer the reader to the accounts which liave been given of the symptoms of the several kinds of abdominal abscess. Three features may be mentioned, however, as specially characteristic of fecal abscesses, and though they are not always present, they very generally appear at some stage in the course of the disease. (1) Where fecal fluids and solids can reach, fecal gases can go also, and hence, with fluctuation, a degree of resonance or of emphysematous crepitation should be looked for. The pressure of gas in these abscesses is often evinced by the escape of bubbles, of fetid odor, as soon as an opening is made. When the abscess is sufliciently near the surface to be percussed, or to form a prominence or tumor, it will be found dull as long as no air has entered it; but if it become fecal by forming a communication with the bowel, air will veiy probably enter it and take the place of some of the pus which escapes into the bowel. (2) When after the ordinary symptoms of any abdominal phlegmon, pus is found in the stools; or a cpiantity of licpiid, or puttydike, semi-licpiid stools of a light color come away—which the patient may describe, as one of mine did,^ as “ coming away all cold ;” or if diarrhoea with blood in the stools sets in, or a number of coagula are passed with the feces; under any of these circum- stances the diagnosis is conclusive of an abscess in connection ■with the bowel. If after, or at the same time that any of these changes are seen in the stools, a pre-existing swelling, which was before dull, becomes tympanitic, the conclusion that an abscess has become fecal, is almost certainly correct. (3) When a fecal abscess reaches the subcutaneous cellular tissue in its course outwards, there are marked signs of diffused cellulitis of a more phlegmo- nous character, wider extent, and accompanied with more severe (constitu- tional disturbance and depression than is seen in ordinary or non-fecal abscesses. The brawny hardness of the tissues is associated with marked tenderness and great pain, and an angry or livid red discoloration of the skin. As the abscess reaches the surface, diffused crepitation may be detected, and a soft boggy feeling is conveyed to the Anger. Sometimes a large bleb is formed on the surface, or distinct patches of skin become gangrenous, and slough away, leaving a flstulous opening which discharges pus and fecal matter. The symptoms of a fecal abscess may be the first indication, instead of one of the later ones, of some fatal disease. This fact is illustrated by a case recorded by Dr. Tluirnian,^ of extensive medullary cancer of the transverse colon, the first sign of wliich was an illness beginning with pain, fulness, and tenderness, in the right side of the abdomen. Tliis attack subsided in a fortnight, and was followed in three weeks more by a circumscribed tumor, the size of an orange, just below the umbilicus. The tumor increased rapidly in size, and at the end of a week fluctuated, the fluctuation being combined with emphysematous crepitation. The swelling was opened, and gas and fetid feculent matter escaped, pns and coagula being mixed with the feces. Afterwards the abscess-walls sloughed, but sub- secpiently all healed and closed entirely, though the scar re-opened. The patient died some months afterwards w'ith extensive fungating cancer of the colon, sprouting into and tilling the lumen of the gut; through the cancerous tissue there was a fistulous commu- nication with the abscess. The ahscess-cavity had been formed by the omentum, ciecum, ' Lancet, July 14, 1883, p. 53. Case of “Rupture of the Urinary Bladder.” 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loiid.,.vol. i. p. 255.