ABDOMINAL ABSCESSES. 1019 Ibid., vol. i. p. 269. * Ibid., vol. xxvi. p. 109. to be suffering from disease of the right testicle, and when admitted under Mr. Shaw’s care, in July, 1845, tliere was an irregular swelling of the scrotum with enlargement of the cord, but owing to the thickened condition of the skin and cellular tissue, the testis could not be felt. In a short time phlegmonous inflammation took place in different parts of the swelling, and the abscesses followed. Another case, recorded in the same volume of the Pathological Transactions by Dr. Thurnam,* was that of a gentleman who had long worn a truss for “ an incipient right inguinal hernia.” Suddenly the swelling increased, and became very tender and pain- ful, and an abscess formed in the upper part of the scrotum, which was opened, giving exit to a little olive-colored, very fetid purulent matter, and gas. A second abscess formed below the first, and was opened five weeks subsequently. At the end of two months, the sinus left from the last abscess was laid open, and a triangular jnece of hard bone, with sharp angles, was discharged the same day. From this time the sinuses closed. Death occurred from other causes some time afterwards, and it was then found that the hernia consisted of an enlarged and thickened appendix cfcci, the apex of which was opaque and contracted, and adherent to the hernial sac by a firm band of adventi- tious tissue. A case of fecal abscess from the ulceration of a diverticulum of the ileum, which had become invaginated in the sac of a right inguinal hernia, in an old woman aged seventy- seven, is recorded by Dr. Dowse.^ This specimen, which I had the opportunity of examining, was a diverticulum from the lower part of the ileum, and was adherent along its upper and forepart to the sac of a direct inguinal hernia. Tliere was no evidence of its ever having been strangulated or constricted, and the perforation had no doubt arisen by ulceration, beginning on the mucous surface. The patient recovered from tlie abscess with a fistulous opening, but died three montlis afterwards from a severe attack of diarrhcca. Ilernise of the vermiform appendix are, jierliaps, less rare than is commonly supposed, and such cases as the above should make the surgeon he at once on the alert in doubtful or obscure inflammatory swellings of the scrotum or groin. I have on three occasions seen the ciecal appendix, either alone or with omentum, or the ciecum, in a hernial sac ; and in one case—that of a woman, aged sixty-seven—it was so clianged in appeai’ance tliat it was mistaken for a hand of adhesion, and cut tlirough with the omental sac which surrounded it. The proximal end of the appendix ciBci, with the stump of the omentum to which it was attached, was tied witli catgut ligature and left outside the ring; and it was only after the operation and on micro- scopical examination, tliat the I'eal nature of the structure was made out. 8traiigulation had existed for five days before the operation, and the knuckle of bowel, the size of a small apple, which was contained within tlie omental sac, was everywhere quite black, and in two places (juite s[)hacelated. The patient died within forty-eight hours of })eritonitis, whicli had become general before the operation. In cases of perforating ulceration on the front or side of the caseum, a cir- cumscribed, intra-peritoneal abscess will form, provided that adhesions exist before the perforation occurs; otherwise death from fecal etfusion into the general peritoneal cavity will result. Such an tihscess will, however, in all ])robability soon open npon tlie abdominal wall, in the iliac region ; unless, as sometimes htippens, it has a downward direction towards the pelvis. Allied somewhat to the cases of fecal abscess resulting from sloughing: or ulceration of an unreduced hernia, are tlie intra-peritoneal abscesses which follow complete redhction, and the extra-peritoneal abscesses which result from reduction en thussc. It complete reduction has been effected, and ail- liesions have had time to form prior to the giving way of the coats of the bowel, an abscess, circumscribed within the pei’itoneuin, will form; lint in a