436 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NOSE AND ITS ACCESSORY SINUSES. thesia of the trigeminus, with diminished or suppressed nasal and lachrymal secretion, and hence an abnormally dry nasal mucous membrane, incompatible with the exercise of the full function of smell; occlusion of the nostrils from congenital or accidental causes; paralysis of the dilator muscles of the nostrils (paralysis of the portio dura of the seventh pair); and occlusion of the pharyngeal or post-nasal cavities as the result of S3’philitic cicatricial contraction, or other mechanically occluding causes elsewhere mentioned. Ogle dwells upon the importance of the pigment of the olfactoiy region for the integrity of the sense of smell, and quotes an interesting case in sup- port of his views.^ Various pathological lesions, which involve—perhaps destro}'-—the terminal distributions of the olfactory nerve, secondarily^ give rise to anosmia. Such lesions are not infrequently seen in the various idiopathic, traumatic, and con- stitutional atfections of the nose already alluded to. Watson believes that cer- tain cases of anosmia, after severe catarrhal attacks with violent sneezing, may he due to local mischief implicating the fibres of the nerve in the olfac- tory'I’egion,^ or to hemorrhage which has taken place into the olfactory bulbs. In ViVchow’s Archives,^ a case is recorded in which the continued, accidental inspiration of the fumes of ether caused a gradual failure of the sense of smell, and at last its total abolition, the effect being attributed to the con- tinuous contact of the drug with the minute branches of the olfactory nerve. Finally, cerebral disease, either directly or indirectly involving the olfac- toiy bulbs, and impairing their nutrition and *functional activity, gives rise to loss of smell. These eases, too, are not infrequently associated with subjec- tive derangements of olfaction, the subjective odor being usually' complained of as offensive. Ilughlings Jackson calls attention to effusion into the lateral ventricles as a possible cause,^ through pressure on the olfactory bulbs. Blows iqion the head, whether on the forehead, parietal region, vertex, or occiput, have long been recognized as causes of anosmia. Hilton attributes this result to rup- ture of the olfactoiy bulbs, or their separation from their beds, owing to the fact that they lie directly on the floor of the cranium, unprotected by a cushion of cerebro-spinal fluid, as are the parts of the base of the brain behind the bulbs. Ogle believes that it is due to rupture of tlxe olfactoiy nerves as they’ pass from the bulb tiirough the perforations in the ethmoid bone. The fur- ther deductions and conclusions reached by him, in his admirable article, may be thus summarized: Anosmia of the afiected side is present in every well- marked case of facial palsy. He believes that the external root of the olfac- tory nerve is the only one directly concerned in olfaction, and that it depends upon the degree in which this root or its central termination has been disor- ganized, wliether the loss of smell is complete or partial. In support of this view, he cites an observation of M. Serres®—founded on the results of nine- teen post-mortem examinations of tlie bodies of paralydic patients—that lesion of the external is much more efiicacious in determining anosmia than is lesion of the internal root. Wickham Legg® and ItyboixT have shown that anosmia may not develop until several months after an injury to the skull, and then as the result of an extension of inflammatoiy or other pro- cesses. Prevost has demonstrated degeneration and atrophy of the olfactory nerve as the cause of senile anosmia. Hotta® has reported instances of con- genital loss of smell, in which the absence of an olfactory tract was shown ' Am. Jour. Med. Sci., 1852. ^ Op. cit., p. 337. 3 Arcliiv fUr path. Anat., Bd. iv. S. 41. 1867- ■* Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 17, 1874. 5 Anatomie Comp, du Cerveau, t. i. p. 295. 6 Lancet, Nov. 8, 1873. • Arch. G6n. de Med., Mars, 1874. 8 Recherches sur la Perte de I’Odorat. Arcli. Gen. de Med., Avril, 1870.