TRUSSES. 1173 abdominal viscera, and prove speedily fatal. The liver powerfully protects the diaphragmatic openings against any hernial results of undue pi-essure t>f the intestines. The occurrence of strangulation from such a rupture gives rise to the symptoms which cliaracterize internal strangulation, but the deter- mination of the position of such internal constriction will be helped by the local pain, by impaired action of the heart or lung respectively, and bj’ tym- panic resonance over the pericardium or }»leura, as the case may be; while, perhaps, in cases wluch are not strangulated, gurgling may be heard thi’ough the stethoscope in the same situations. In one case recorded by Copeman, of Norwich, the hernia was pleural, and gave rise to pain in the shoulder. Guthrie proposed, in such cases, to make an opening into the abdominal cavity, and to introduce the hand in order to withdraw the bowel from tlie hernial opening; and, no doubt, this ought to be done when the history and symptoms of the case are sulhciently clear. Trusses. On the proper construction and exact ada[ttation of trusses, depends a vast amount of comfort or of suffering in the numerous patients who are affected with hernia. And tlie proper choice and ap})lication of trusses should be made a subject of study and experience by every one })ractisiug surgery, nor should the patient be left (as is too often the case) to the niechanical mercies, and rough and ready adaptations, of the instrument-niakei's and chemists who sell these appliances. Space will not permit more, in this place, than a descrip- tion of the kinds of trusses and belts which I have found most successful in practice, and will allow of no refei’ence to the great variety of articles which their inventors and makers offer, by advertisement, to that portion of the public which needs this kind of surgical relief. Trusses may be classified most usefully under two heads, viz., those which are intended to afford the greatest possibility of the chance of an ultimate radical cure (a possibility which is usually small and uncertain), and those which are intended to make the patient comfortable by giving sip^port, and to avoid the dangers of strangulation. For the former purpose, the patient must be content to endure some inconvenience from the more firm and effec- tive pressure required for the sake of the full cbances of a cure by this means. For the latter object, the efforts of the maker should be to make the patient comfortable, as far as may be compatible with keeping the rupture in the abdomen, or preventing its increase and further descent. In all cases, however, the practice which is too commonly followed, of rendering easier tlie adajitation of tlie truss and aiding the [lad to keep its place by making it so conical as to press into the hernial opening like a cork into the neck of a bottle, should be carefully avoided. The introduction of such a plug from without, acting upon yielding aii<l distensible structures, is unscientific, and instead of counteracting the dilating influence of the viscera from within, is caleulafed to increase ultimately, instead of diminishing, the size of the rupture. The constant boring movement yiri^duced liy the motion of tlie side-spring in walking or any other form of exercise, has invariably this effect when kept up long, as is demonstrated by the deep, pit-like depres- sion left in the integument when the truss is removed. The investing struc- tures are pushed into the hernial a.[iertures, and produce the same dilating effect from without as the protruding viscera do from within. A liubonocele is thus met halfway in the canal, and is assisted, by the dilatation of tlie superficial aperture, to become a complete hernia. The more complete the