FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. 157 spread to the dura mater from neigdiboriug- parts, as for example, from the orbit. The primary tumors are nearly always single, the secondary tumors are not infrequently multiple. Moreover, tlae groAvth of the secondary masses is usually more rapid than is that of the primary forms of the disease. Structure.—As regards structure, these growths from the dura mater are sca'comatous. Witli reference to the primary tumors, I think that this state- ment may be accepted absolutely, hut there is some slight and doubtful evi- dence in support of the assertion made by some that certain of the secondary forms of the malady may be carcinomatous. Less recent observers almost in- variably speak of these tumors as cancerous, but there can be little doubt, from the descriptions which they give, that they dealt with sarcomatous new growths. These tumors indeed have in a marked degree the clinical and physical features that distinguish the sarcomata from the carciuomata. They are, as a rule,Avell encapsuled; they displace rather than invade the parts around (frequent reference is made to the ease with Avhich they shell out on post- mortem examination); they usually attain a large size before they break down; their rate of growtli is usually less rapid than that observed in most carcino- mata ; they seldom induce glandular enlargements; and, lastly, they are often attended by metastasis. All these features are appropriate to sarcoma and not to carcinoma. Lancereaux^ and other observers assert that metastatic carci- noma never occurs in the dura mater, and in, I think, all of the more recent accounts given of the microscopic aspect of these fungous growths, it has been shoAvn that they were sarcomatous. The following may be taken as examples of the eases that ap}iear to support the view of the possibility of metastatic carcinoma of the dura mater. Dr. Williams^ records the case of a female, aged fifty-six, wlio had presented a scirrhus of the breast for ten years. For five years she had had “ cancer of the abdomen.” Scirrhous tubercles afterwards appeared on the skin of the chest and aljdomen. After certain head symptoms she died. The dura mater presented many round and firm nodules of “ cancer.” In this case the report is hardly full enough, and the long duration of the breast tumor is somewhat opposed to the diagnosis of scirrhus. Dr. llabershoiF reports the case of a female, aged twenty-nine, who had had a scirrhus of the breast that had recurred after removal. She developed fungus of the dura mater. At the aiitopsy, many nodules were found on the dura mater, and there was besides “ cancer” of the clavicle, ribs, humerus, lu’onchial glands, liver, and pleura. A drawing is given of the microscopic structure of the fungus, showing irregular cells in alveoli. Here the age of the patient is strongly against the notion of scirrhus, and much in fiivor of the diagnosis of sarcoma of the breast. The extensive metastases also are extremely sug- gestive of sarcoma, and it is striking that there is no mention of any glandular implication in the axilla. Many cases,^ akin to these, have been put on record, and it must be confessed that they do not satisfactorily demonstrate the existence of metastatic carcinoma of the dura mater. It would a})pear tliat in a majority of instances this sarcomatous fungus is of the spiiKlle-celled variety. In several cases it has been a round-celled sarcoma (and these are probably the growths mistaken for soft carcinoma); in other examples it has been described as a myxo-sarcoma, a glio-sarcoma, etc. It must not be siqjposed that even the majority of the sarcomata of the dui'a mater perforate the skull. The majority do not perforate, but rather ^ Op. cit., tome ii. p. 393. ® Path. Soo. Trans., vol. ii. p. 163. ® Path. Soo. Trans., vol. vi. p. 321. * For an account of many such cases, see an Article hy Dr. .1. W. Ogle, On Morhid Growths of Brain and Cord, etc., in British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., vol. xxxv. p. 486 el seq, 1865.