INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 800 and pericardium. Here the explanation of the paper bag, however suitable it may be to the lung—and we do not seek to undervalue its importance— fails, for the gravest laceration of these organs may occur without the chest- Avall being broken; even the heart may thus be torn away from all its con- nections. The heart and pericardium contain no air, free to escape, or confined, which can be called in to explain, or help in explaining, the rupture of their tissues. The extreme degree of the rupture, observed in some accurately recorded cases of these lung-injuries, appears also to militate against the theory of rupture by air-compression. Again, adopting the theory of Gosselin, if the compression of the air in the lungs were the cause of the rupture, we should expect, if the closed glottis were the cause, that the opposite lung, or both, would be at some time or other found ruptured, but such an occurrence has not yet been recorded—always the rupture is placed somewhere in the lung of the side Avhich has evidently been directH crushed. Smith, too, records the observation of an injury in the body of a dog, run over by a car, in which he says that the pericai’dium ivas extensively torn, as ivell as the lung ruptured; certainly the air could not have ruptured the pericardium. For these reasons, I confess that, much as I value the researches of Gosselin, I cannot accept his theory as complete an}" moi’e than I do the concussion- theory of Smith. Difiicult as it is to accept, I incline to the view that direct pressure, or traction, is the cause of these ru})tures. Only such an explanation will apply to the corresponding lesions of the pericardium and heart, and we are forced to admit that the chest, even of the adult, can yield, though ivith- out fracture, under sudden strain and impulse, to allow of the infliction of such lacerations as have been recorded. The s}miptoms of these injuries are more evident than those of the lesser degrees of contusion ; briefly stated, they consist in the sudden development of pneumo-thorax, ivith the evidence of hemorrhage to a greater or less amount into the pleural cavity, and in some cases hfemoptysis, though this is noted by many as either absent or late in development. Although com- monly fatal, Ave find records of some recoveries; death, in most cases, has taken place rapidly as the result of the bleeding into the pleura, and the com- pression of the lung by air and blood combined ; Avith these, emphysema lias often added to the embarrassment of breathing, and has hastened the fatal termination. AVhile the physical signs and symptoms are mostly Avell marked, and developed immediate!}" after tlie injury, there is at least one well-recorded example of their deA^elopment being delayed for a long period, up to the fifth day :— A young man, aged 24, admitted to hospital on February 15, 1864, had been knocked down by a heavy-laden cart, tlie wheel of Avhich passed across his chest. Tavo hours after, on admission to hospital, his state was not such as to AA'arrant the supposi- tion that there Avas extensive rupture of any internal organ. The pulse, although rapid, Avas easily counted, the surface Avarm, countenance anxious, respiration short; he chiefly complained of his “ belly” as the seat of injury, and the region of the liver appeared to be the most tender part. There AAms no evidence of fractured rib, and no haemoptysis ; he passed Avater freely, and it Avas of natural color ; his spine Avas uninjured ; on our proceeding to examine his chest, he smiled at the idea, as though he felt there Avas nothing wrong there, and putting his hand on the epigastrium, said, “ oh, my belly ! it is my belly !” Respiration Avas audible in both lungs at this time. On the folloAving day his pulse was ninety, and full; he had quite rallied from the condition of collapse ; he still complained of much pain over the liAmr and epigastrium. On the 18th (3d day) he became slightly, but decidedly, jaundiced; general condition as before; pulse ninety; urine deeply colored Avitli bile, but containing neither sugar nor albumen. On the 20th he became suddenly Avorse ; his breathing rapid and labored ; pulse, 120-13(1, intermit-