164 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. of fluid ill the ventricular cavities. It is possible for this thin layer to give way, and for the contained fluid to find its Avay into the arachnoid sac.^ The quantity of dropsical fluid varies from a few ounces to quarts. In appear- ance it is clear, limpid, or slightly yellow, is of somewhat higher specific gravity than cerebro-spinal fluid, and contains but very little solid mattei’, in the form mainly of albumen and salts of sodium. The cause usually ascribed for this disease is chronic inflammation of the lining membrane of the ventricles, wdiile among less frequent causes .are classed excess or deficiency of blood supply to the brain, with the various organic etfects that follow such conditions, and certain malformations of the brain and its membranes. Effects on the Shall.—The head enlarges mainly at the expense of its u})})er and lateral portions. The fontanelles become more ojien, and the sutures wider, while the bones of the vertex gradually recede from one an- other. The frontal bone is pressed forwards, the parietals liackwards and out- Avards, and the occipital so much downwards that its vertical part may be- come almost horizontal. Tlie enlargement is seldom quite symmetrical, and the head as a rule becomes conspicuously flattened at the top. The orbital plates of the frontal bone become depressed and olilique in direction, so that tlie orbits may be reduced to mere chinks. This change in the base of the skull is diagnostic of ventricular dropsy, as it never occurs in cases of external hydro- cephalus. At the same time, it must be remembered that the orbital plate would not be affected in tliose rare eases in which ventricular dropsy had oecu i-rcd after consolidation of the bones at the base of the skull.^ At the sides of the cranium, the great wing of the sphenoid and the squamous bones are driven out, the temporal and zygomatic fossie are filled up, and, if the deformity be seA^ere, an appearance is giv^en to the face as if the cheeks Aveio greatly bloAvn out. The scalp looks thin and tense, is covered Avith scanty hair, and presents on its surface many prominent \ufins. Fluctuation may generally be felt in the course of the open sutures, and these parts ma}' sometimes be seen to sink and rise Avith respiration. With the greatly enlarged head the small and often ema- ciated face is in striking contrast. OAving to the frontal enlargement, the face has a someAvhat triangular outline Avith the apex at the chin. If the orbital plate be much depressed the e^ms are unduly prominent, and have an incli- nation doAviiAvards, so that often a good deal of the pupil may be concealed by the loAver lid. Symptoms.—Enlargement of the head is by no means of necessity the first symptom. Very often—especially in congenital cases—this enlai-gement is preceded by cerebral symptoms, such as convulsions, rolling of the eyes, squint- ing, parox3’sms of screaming, restlessness, etc. The child wastes and be- comes puny and ill-nourished. It cannot Avell support its head, and prefers to lie doAvn rather than to sit. If it lives until it is old enough to Avalk, its gait is usuall}' sIoav and cautious, like that of a decrepit old man; it is fre- ([uently idiotic, and is apt to be fretful and to exhibit paroxj^sms of passion. Children thus affected are liable to the brain disturbances ah’ead}^ mentioned, and, in addition to these, may become the subjects of spasmodic croup, of muscular spasms in various parts of the bod^q and of muscular rigiditj’ in one or more limbs. Prognosis.—Death is the usual termination of these cases, and, unless it occurs at or soon after birth, commonly supervenes during the first or second }"ears of life. The immediate cause of the fatal result may be exhaustion simply, * Bright’s Reports, vol. i. part i. page 433. * Hewett, The Deviations of the Base of the Skull in Chronic Hydrocephalus; St. George’s Hosp. Reports, vol. i. page 27. 1866.