251 CATARACT. lens, but a thin formation filling the rent in the capsule. In some cases this condition calls for relief, hut if fair reading capacity is still left, I prefer to let the eye alone; otherwise, another operation is required. These secondary operations to clear the pupil are by no means free from the risk of dangerous reaction. The tlucker this capsular ol)struction, and the longer it has existed, the tougher it will he, and the greater the difficulties and dangers of the operation. A \'ery sharp sickle-needle may he passed through the cornea, and made to penetrate the capsule and incise it centrally. Or a Graefe’s knife may he used for the same purpose. A safer and better method still, is that of Bowman’s two stop-needles. One is passed through from the outer side, the other from the inner, both being made to pierce the obstruction at the same central point; then by a leverage motion of the handles, the needles are made to separate, each supporting the capsule for the other, and a central rent is made, with immediate clearing of sight. To do this with the greatest precision recpiires artificial oblique illumination. When the obstruction is thick, tough, and on a level with the iris, to which it may be adherent, a free incision with Wecker’s scissors is the safest and surest remedy. A narrow Fig. 873. spear-knife is made to puncture the cornea, and the closed scissors passed through the incision. As they are opened in the chamber, the pointed blade Ijackwards, the obstruction is pierced and the blades puslied forwards, and then closed, so as to incise it freely in its centre. If it is cnt at right angles to the direction of the greatest traction, the incision will open enough by its own elasticity. In some cases, with closed pu[)il and dense false membrane ad- herent to the iris, an iridectomy may be practised. In that event, however, a firm, pigmented, fiilse membrane is seen behind the new p'^ipil, ^md another operation will be required. I prefer to cut the whole structures at once by a tree sweep of Wecker’s yince-ciseaux. In all these secondary operations, the danger of violent reaction comes from traction on the ciliary processes, in efforts to tear or incise the tough obstacle. For that reason, a skilful, two-needle operation, or an incision, is the least risky. After any of these operations tlie eye must be closed with a soft pad and bandage, and the patient kept ([niet in a darkened room for a few days. Cold water applications, and anodynes internally, are the best rerne<lies. Atropine, except in very filmy obstructions, without synechia posterior, is not beneficial. If persistent iridocyclitis, with pain, tenderness to tlie touch, and threatening sympathetic indications in tlie other eye, result from a cat- aract extraction, the offending organ must be enucleated. All these observa- tions, based on the facts of experience, show that cataract operations of all kinds are not free from grave risks. The lens in all cataract operations is destroyed; the eye is deprived of its accommodation, and is rendered extremely hyperopic. Suitable cataract lenses must then be worn for all purposes. If the proper glass does not help the sight very greatly, the pupil is not free from obstruction, or the visual capa- city is impaired. I’ractically, two lenses suffice—one weaker (3| to 4 inches focus), for distance, and one stronger (2 to 24), for reading and other close work. If the curvature of the cornea has been changed by the operation, a