286 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. or double, it is occasionally recurrent, coming or going with fluctuations in the disturbances that give rise to it. In children with tubercular meningitis, neuro-retinitis is rarely detected. In such subjects, tubercular deposits in the choroid are more frequent. Optic neuritis in a milder form, but combined with very striking, and often cliaracteristic, cliaiiges in the retina, is a frequent indication of albuminuria. Sometimes the retinal changes alone are detected, and these have often led me to the diagnosis of serious disease of the kidney before it has been suspected by the attending physician. A chalky-white group of deposits, often radiating in lines from a centre, and usually in the region of the macula lutea, at once suggests a renal origin. It is rarely ' seen in other diseases, and in albuminuria is not always so characteristic. (Plate XXVIII., Fig. 4.) Retinitis in any form should lead us always to inquire into the constitutional condition of the patient. Retinal diseases are more common than cataract, in diseases of the kidneys, but both may exist together, and hemorrhages into the eye are not at all uncommon. In locomotor ataxia, certain eye symptoms are among the first to attract at- tention. Diplopia from disturbances in the rotatory muscles of the ej’es, is very common. I recall the case of a man whom I treated for paralysis of the external rectus of one eye. He recovered from this, after a long course of treatment which lasted about a year. Some years after, he consulted me for a failure of vision in one eye. My attention was then attracted by his very small pupils. "With the opthalmoscope, I recognized some pallor of the optic papilla, the first evidence of optic atrophy. This continued slowly to increase, with failure of vision, till he is now totally blind, not even perceiving light. His pupils have remained very small from the beginning. As long as useful sight continued, the size of the pupils was uninfluenced by varying degrees of light. But the moment a small object, held near him, was focused, the pupils contracted, to dilate to their usual small size when accommodation ceased. This failure to respond to light, and movement with efforts of accommodation, are characteristic of tabes dorsalis. This peculiarity of the pupils and optic nerve-atrophy, with failing sight, often precede, for months and even years, the disturbances of muscular equilibrium. The patient just referred to, still walks well, and has perfect use of his mental fiiculties, though long since completely blind. I call attention to this state of the pnpil, in connection with the ophthalmoscopic evidences of optic atroph^q on account of its diagnostic importance. (Opacity of the optic nerve-fibres is shown in Plate XXVIII., Fig. 5.) Intra-ocular Tumors.—I have only spoken of these neoplasms incidentally, in treating of the diagnosis of eye troubles without the use of the ophthal- moscope. ^Whatever be the nature of these growths, and whether commencing in the retina or choroidal tract, destruction of sight is the inevitable conse- quence. If not removed very early, the system will be contaminated, and fearful suffering with a fatal result is sure. Indeed, even when detected in their first develojiment, and the eye at once enucleated, relapse and a lethal termination are very apt to occur. The fact that an experienced surgeon will not promise a certain cure, often leads patients to wait and take the risks, rather than submit to enucleation. jSIutilation, with a certainty of saving life, is hard to submit to; but when no great assurance is promised against relapse, most persons prefer trusting to Providence. Still, an early enucleation may and often does afford permanent protection. Even if it fails, a respite is secured, and the extreme agony of a cancerous eye is avoided. An intra- ocular growth is often far advanced before it is detected. This is especially apt to be the case in small children. Till the eye is distended by the neo- plasm, there is little or no pain. But glaucomatous hardness and paroxysms