817 TREATMENT OF PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. period of treatment standing or sitting up. As a man lies, the borders of the fourth, tifth, and sixth ribs, in the line of the posterior axillary fold, or in front of it, are the most dependent points. The opening, if a seat of election is at the command of the surgeon, should be placed, for either free or modified incision, so that, while dependent, it is still convenient to the patient and surgeon. To fulfil these conditions, a position midway between the lines of the anterior and posterior axillary folds seems most suitable, and has proved so in pi’actice. In making the opening, it is necessary to define, if possible, the trunk and main branches of the long thoracic vein,, which rather than the artery is apt to give trouble if wounded. This com- plication is, indeed, moi'e likely to occur in chronic empyema, where the vessel itself and its branches are prone to be enlarged, rather than in the conditions of acute disease attending on a wounded thorax. The accident, too, Avould be trivial in its consequences, but it would embarrass the opera- tion, and might, with a patient much enfeebled by disease, cause temporary anxiety. Assuming that the position of the opening is to be fixed, eitlier at the seat of election above indicated, or where the physical signs may dictate, and assuming furtlier that the o[)ening is to be made without reference to the site of the wound — under these conditions (I have already described the method of operation, viz., a counter-opening made by cutting down on a guide introduced by the ivound) there is no difference between the operation as done for idiopathic or for traumatic empyema. The experience of the present day affords ample proof that the proper course to adopt, is to verify the site of effusion by a preliminary puncture, and at the same time to determine with the aspirator the quality of the fluid to be evacuated. Tbe physical signs most to be relied on as indicating the presence of fluid, are the absolute dulness of the part on percussion, the absence of respiratory murmur and sounds, and the destruction of vocal fremitus; without this combination, the surgeon should hesitate to puncture even ivith an exploring needle; with it, if well defined, lie should, before undertaking a more extended operation, add an exploratory puncture to verify the diagnosis, and to gain information as to the kind of fluid. Su[)posing the fluid to be found a clear serum, as was noted above in a ease of contusion of the chest, the evacuation of the fluid, as far as the aspirator will effect it without distress to the patient, or signs of local trouble or olistruction to the tube, may and often does suffice to arrest the disease. In conducting this proceeding with the fine needle, even a valvular puncture effected by slipping the skin fo one side while the needle enters, seems unnecessary, for the fine needle makes a wound too small to require the precaution; if its subsequent enlargement is demanded by the character of the fluid, even the slight variation of place caused hy the valvular opening is a disadvantage. I assume that, with our present knowledge of the damage causablc Iiy the use of unclean instruments, even those least wedded to antiseptic surgery will admit that a scrupulous attention to the cleanliness of the exploring needle is essential, in view of the possibility of the chest-fluid being still only serum, or, if purulent, not as j'et infected by decomposing material. To effect the removal of the fluid, should it be found to be serum, repeated applications of the exhausting syringe ivill be necessary, unless the instrument be one of large size; using the ordinary instrument, which is quite sufficient, it becomes necessary, in order to avoid the accident of entrance of air, that the fittings of Potain’s canula, or some such device, shall be adopted, for in the shiftings necessary to empty tlie re- ceiver, if the tube be not guarded by a proper stop-cock, air will enter, particularly if the patient cough. Thus far we have considered the conditions which are presented by a ease VOL. V.—.')2