283 OPHTHALMOSCOPIC DISEASES. by first intention, and in a few days she was well. By “ well,” I mean relieved of the unsightliness and disgusting suppuration. With this she was entirely satisfied. The same result is here obtained as in the old method of destroying the tear sac by the actual cautery. In caries or hopeless closure of the bony duct, destruction of the sac is the best that we can do. Extreme relaxation of the sac is best relieved by enucleation, as above. It is sur- prising how little such patients are troubled with weeping after the source of the irritation is dried up by obliteration. Such eyes weep when exposed to the wind, or under the influence of the emotions, but not much at other times. Surgical measures, in the treatment of chronic suppuration of the lachry- mal sac, are thus reasonably successful, but the complete cure of the weeping is an exception. Injuries of the canaliculi, especially of the lower, are often seemingly trifling, and yet are followed by incurable lachrymation. If cut across, torn away, or destroyed in their whole length by burns or bruises, it is seldom possible to re-establish their permeability. Great care is required in removing small tumors or other growths from the lids near the inner commis- sure, not to cut away these delicate but important structures. Rarely, the canaliculus may become obliterated without injury or known cause. At other times, a stricture is found in its course, that can be overcome with a small probe, and the epiphora relieved. The thorough removal of epithelioma of the lids may require the sacrifice of these little ducts, and of course the weep- ing then is permanent. Occasionally a little calculus may form in the canalicu- lus, causing suppuration and weeping. It is easily detected and removed, as are the little mushroom growths that cause similar troubles. Persistent weeping is often kept up by ulceration in the nose, and may be mistaken for stricture of the tear passages. I have a patient now under treatment, who came for an operation on the tear sac. She is already relieved by applications to the nasal mucous membrane. Troublesome w^eeping may also be caused and kept up by a polypus or other growth in the inferior nasal meatus. Such possibilities should never be forgotten, particularly when long standing weep- ing is not attended by suppuration in the sac itself. Of course, caries of the turbinated bones, or foreign bodies in the nose, may give rise to the same trouble. In the few cases of suppurative inflammation of the tear sac in infants, that I have met with, they have been relieved l»y a single free dila- tation through the opened canaliculus. Calculi and other formations in the tear sac are rare, but must be recognized and removed. Ophthalmoscopic Diseases. Alterations behind the lens can only be made out by the aid of the ophthal- moscope. Even in luxations of the lens, the mirror is of great use in diagnosis. For optical reasons, the edge of the lens, when transparent, is seen as a dark border, and readily identified. In the differential diagnosis of cataract, in its incipiency, fundamental illumination of the eye must not be neglected. Oblique illumination alone, in old people, except when distinct stride are detected in the lens, is likely to lead to a false belief in the existence of cataract. Ophthalmoscoj)ic results may be positive or negative, each kind having its value. In growths of the retina and choroid, at an early period, when clear diagnosis is very important, the eye mirror is indispensable. * The functional test must not be omitted. A sharply defined Iflank in the field of vision (scotoma), in a suspected tumor of the fundus, helps to confirm the diagnosis. Any inflammatory or other organic lesion in the retina, choroid, or vitreous, may give rise to a more or less well-defined scotoma, which is