1117 GENERAL SIGNS OF HERNIA. tiou when the abdominal apertures are weak or patulous. When a rupture is established, the downward traction tends of course to produce or increase such an elongation, and results in the development of the various tail-like forma- tions which are so often found in the omentum lodged in an inguinal or femoral rupture. All tliese causes are more or less the result of liereditary formation of the belly and of its contents. Bulgy groins, late-descending or retained testicles, and inguinal, crural, and umbilical hernial protrusions, can be traced so fre- quently in the several generations of the same family, as to set this beyond a doubt. Another powerful factor in the production of hernia, operating earlier and more easily in individuals predisposed as just described, and later and with more difficulty in those who are perfectlj- formed, lies in the nafure of their pursuits and occupations. Forgenien, strikers, eaiq)enters, and colliers are all especially liable to ruptures, as are those who inordinately }iractise such athletic exercises as rowdng, lifting heavqy weights, etc. In some cases the debilitating etfects of a high temperature in the working atmosphere, helps the predisposition by causing relaxation of the skin and other tissues. In otliers, the position of the body, as in beiuling, crouclung, or sitting, while making great muscular exertion, prevents the lower abdominal muscles, the oblique and transversal is, from giving the proper support over the openings during the supreme etfort. Very commonly, the constant and great expulsive efforts in a chronic cough, violent sneezing, straining at stool, or during mic- turition, result in a rupture. Again, the excessive distension produced by corpulency, and still more that caused by pregnancy, followed by the violent expulsive efforts of parturition, frequently causes a hernia, usually of the umbilical or ventral variety. General Signs of Hernia. One of the most characteristic signs is the sudden appearance of a tumor near one of the openings just enumerated—R tumor Avhich shows itself on assuming the erect posture, increases on making any muscular effort, disap- pears on lying down, and is usually absent after rest in be<l. The tumor gets larger, tenser, and more elastic on coughing; and this cougli-impnlse, felt by the fingers firmly grasping the tumor, is one of the pathognomonic signs most relied upon. A hernia containing omentum only, feels inelastic, flabliy, and uneven to the touch. It is returned into the abdomen Avith more difficulty than one con- taining bowel, and may easily be mistaken for a varicocele, but is less elastic. When reduced, if the linger is kept pressed upon the hernial opening, and the patient stands up, no return of the swelling occurs; but in a varicocele the })ressure promotes the quick return of the SAvelling by obstructing the A^enous circulation. A hernial tumor can usually be squeezed back into the abdominal cavity by the proper ai)plication of the fingers {taxis); except in cases to be mentioned hereafter, it is compressible and reducible. None of the signs mentioned can, however, be relied on singly in any doubtful case. Any fluid accumulation lying within the influence of the abdondnal muscles, Avill become more pro- minent on standing, Avill have a distinct cough-impulse, and may be pressed back. This sign ceases, for exanqile, to be a distinguishing mark in the diagnosis of femoral hernia from }isoas abscess, or in that of inguinal hernia from abdominal abscess or from hydrocele of the cord. But if added to the above signs Ave have a ventral resonance on light percussion over the tumor.