DESCRIPTION OF INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 369 means of some form of atomizer, or upon tlie use of medicated 2mcde7's, applied with the anterior or posterior nasal powder-insufflator, in its various forms. Both methods have their warm advocates, and both are now extensively employed, and properly so, to the exclusion of the older and much less efficient methods of medication in the treatment of nasal disease. My own experience prejudices me strongly in favor of the spray. I believe that with a proper spray-tube, and with a pressure of compressed air of 40 pounds or. more to the square inch, no more perfect application can be made to the parts. This should always be, if possible, through the posterior nares, the spray being driven forwards through the nose; and to insure completeness, the velum of the patient must be held forwards, by means of a suitably curved hook in the operator’s left liand, in order that space may he afforded through which to throw the spray. This procedure I regard as absolutely essential, in order to secure a complete application. Atomizer'S or spray pi'odHcers are constructed upon two principles, both familiar to the profession, and too well known to require an extended de- scription. A type of the first class is found in the atomizer of Richardson ; and of the second, in that constructed upon the principle of Bergson ; of both, modifications, mainly in form, exist, the principle remaining the same. The most convenient and most efficient a]»paratus is that here figured ; but Fig. 923. its cost, though this lias recently been materially lessened, may prove an obstacle to its introduction into the armamentarium of the general }>ractitioner. It consists of a metal air-receiver, an air-pump, and glass atomizing tubes, curved so as to throw the spray iq»wards (jiosterior nares), downwards (larynx), and liackwards (pharynx), together with the necessary connecting rubber tubes. The cylinder having been filled with compressed air up to a ])ressure of from 40 to 60 pounds to the square inch, as shown liy the indicator, the spray-tube, with its proper end immersed in the medicated fluid contained in the small vial or test-tube, is held in the right liand, aiul the pressure ot the air, which is now allowed to ])ass by turning the small cock upon the tube with the other hand, is controlled liy the right thumb of the operator, pressed upon the end of the glass tube so as to compress the rubber pi}ie at this ])oint. It is thus under conqilete control, and the spray can now be VOL. V.—24