14 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. supporting treatment, witli opiates to secure rest, should be resorted to. Mineral acids with bitter tonics are useful to check tlie diarrhcca sometimes present in blood-poisoning. Although pyremic cases are usually fatal, occa- sionally one ends favorably, so that no efforts should be spared to prolong life.^ Hewett thinks that kidney disease may be at the bottom of the pyremia, as well as of the erysipelas, of head injuries. With renal complications, he thinks that the serous sacs are more apt to be attacked. 2. Symptoms of the Chronic Form of Osteomyelitis.—Beyond the bony en- largement, nothing but local tenderness with slight hyperplasia of the scalp can be detected, although from thickening of the inner table of the skull, epilepsy, mania, etc., may result. Treatment.—The administration of iodide of potassium, either alone or combined Avith mercury, incisions, leeching, the local application of iodine, and repeated blisterings, may be tried. When a localized exostosis forms, after the delay of a few months to see whether its growth will not cease—as so frequently happens—it may be removed with the saw or bone-forceps. If necrosis result, the case should be here, as elscAvliere, left to nature until the bone separates, Avhen the secpiestrum may be removed by appropriate incisions. The question of trephining for epilepsy will receive future consideration. Fractures of the Skull.—Fractures of the skull are naturally divided by anatomical peculiarities and })athological results into two classes, viz., those of the vault, and those of the base. A fracture of the vault, however, very often coexists with one of the base, and in fact some writers take the extreme view that this is always the case. That this is an error, I hope to demon- strate. Fractures of eitlier class may be tissured, incised, punckired, commi- nuted, or depressed.^ Those of the vault may invoh^e the external table alone, Avith crushing of the diploe; or the internal table may be comminuted and depressed, Avithout any apparent injury of the external table; or the frag- ments may be elevated above the level of the sound bone. Finally, fractures of either class may be simple, that is, Avithout any Avound of the soft parts communicating Avitli the fracture, or they may be compound, that is, Avith a lesion of the soft parts leading doAvn to the injured bone. One important difference between conqAound and sinq)le fractures must be here adverted to. In the former, the force being almost of necessity applied to a small portion of the skull, the fracture is more frequently strictly limited to the point struck than in simple fractures, Avhere the force is so diffused as not to be sufficient at any one point to divide the integuments. Thus in eight cases of compound fracture out of tAventy examined, the fracture corresponded to the point struck, Avhile this Avas found to be the case in only one instance out of fifty-six examples of simj)le fracture. The anatomy of the scalp has already been sufficiently dilated upon to explain certain appearances presented by head injuries. A little refiection Avill indicate Avhat an important part it plays in protecting the skull from fracture, its mobility converting many a direct into a glancing blow, tlms avoiding fracture, or modifying its extent. The frangibility of skulls varies exceedingly. Other things being equal, the thinner the skull the more brittle, usually from the almost complete absence of diploe. Some skulls are trans- lucent throughout nearly their entire extent, and are mere shells of compact tissue. Other skulls may a\'erage half an inch in thickness. Comparatively thick crania, liOAveA^er, may be quite brittle, but a thin one is always so for the reason just given, that is, the deficiency of diploe. j I have found digitalis invaluable in cases of exhausting surgical disease, with frequent feeble pulse and high temperature. It is specially useful when the secretion of the kidneys is deficient, •or likely to become so. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, voL i. p. .582.