APN(EA. 791 Except ill slow apnoea, the sjm]itoms are usually sufficiently pronounced to be comprehended by anybody. They consist in general agitation, dyspnoea, forcible efforts at respiration, failure in the process, and coma. Thus in sud- den apnoea, with some moolilications in severity and sequence, intolerable discomfort—primarily from sensations of a load within the thorax and of compression without—which cannot be gotten rid of or overcome, induces an uncontrollable desire to breathe, and causes the patient to start up or change his position for one in which he either can get air more easily, or can fight for breath more efficiently with the aid of the voluntary muscles of respiration. His countenance expresses both dread and anxiety; he looks from one by- stander to another in mute imploration for help ; and, often unable to stop to speak, he points to his throat, clutches at his neck, or waves his hands in an outward direction. He declares, perhaps, that his head feels full enough to burst; he complains of vertigo, of tinnitus, and of coruscations. His pulse is rapid; his face is congested ; the superficial veins of the head and neck are visibly distended ; the eyeballs are prominent; the pupils are dilated and irresponsive to stimuli. The eftbrts to secure breath are at first frequent, shallow, and weak, but, being insufficient for the purpose, these are soon succeeded by deeper, more prolonged, and more powerful respirations, the action of all the involuntary muscles being called into play; and as the impotency of these desperate efforts exhausts the strength of the patient, he sinks into a position of indif- ference and inattention, insensible to things about him, and not responsive to refiex stimulation. Meanwhile the pulse has become slow and feeble, the face livid, the lips blue, the mouth occupied with unexpectorated products of secretion, Avith accumulations of frothy saliva, mucus, and perhaps blood, at the orifice and at the nostrils ; sounds in the larynx indicate accumulations there, perhaps from insensibility of the epiglottis ; while eclampsia may take place with forcible constriction of the expiratory muscles, and Avith such relaxation of the sphincter-groups that there may be involuntary discharges of feces, of urine, and of seminal fluid. The res}iiration gradually becomes Aveaker, shalloAver, and less frequent; and this is succeeded by spasmodic, snapping gasps for breath, Avhich recur sloAvly at increasing intervals; the pulse lAecomes intermittent, and tlien im- }ierceptible ; the face becomes covered Avith SAveat; occasional eclampsia is manifested; coma ensues, and respiration is at an end, although faint con- tractions of the heart may be detected, in some instances, for from tAvo to four minutes longer, Avhen they cease in turn, and true asphyxia—pulseless- ness—terminates the life of the individual. The apnma ma}’ be so sudden as to anticipate the usual train of symptoms; and the time occupied in the uninterrupted process rarely exceeds ten minutes under any conditions. Prognosis.—The prognosis is grave. Recovery is possible only in cases of mechanical ol>struction in the air-tract, susceptible of relief before the com- pletion of the process; and even then, often, only after prolonged efibrts at resuscitation. Resuscitation may be considered possible as long as the heart continues to beat. Failures in resuscitation are not ahvays attributable to failure in securing access of air to the blood, but are often due to the inability of highly carbonized venous blood to absorb oxygen, its capacity for Avhich, according to the researches of Bernard, Avill have fallen from 139 :1000 to 85 :1000. The blue and blue-black color of the blood is attributed by some observers to excess of carlAonic acid, and by others to lack of oxygen. It has been found, too, that the blood-globules lose portions of their ha?mato- crystalline, which by microscopic inspection (Preyer) can sometimes be found crystallized in the serum. This disorganization of the blood precludes recovery.