49 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ANH MENINGES. tiles; they are particularly instructive as giving the results of treatment of ruptured intracranial vessels, as nearly uncomplicated with cereliral injury as it is possible to conceive. Where an operation appears contraindicatecl, perfect quietude, cold to the liead, purgatives, perhaps blood-letting, certainly an antiphlogistic diet, and the constitutional effect of mercury, should be tried. At a later stage of the case, iodide of potassium is indicated. I fear, however, that only a mistaken diagnosis will ever give time for such treat- ment, and that when cases of supposed marked extravasation between the dura mater and skull end in recovery, some other condition will have really existed. (2) Hemorrhage into the Cavity of the Arachnoid.—This is the most common site for traumatic extravasations of blood, which is found in the arachnoid cavity not only in the majority of severe head injuries, but “ also in cases where the injury has been a trilling one, and that without any apparent lesion either about the brain or its memljraues.”^ The sources of the hemor- rhage are the vessels of the pia mater, with tearing of the visceral arachnoid ; the superficial cerebral veins; and the great sinuses ; and this fonn of extra- vasation may even coexist with effusion of blood from vessels Ijetween the dura mater and skull, the Idood finding its way into the arachnoid cavity by a rent of the former membrane. In most instances the situation of the blood corresponds to the cerebrum, sometimes to the cerebellum, and very rarely to the medulla oblongata. Blood thus effused undergoes certain important changes, to which I wonhl here call attention.^ At first after coagulation, the blood forms a rnembrane-like expansion whicli is accurately moulded by the parts between which it lies. When in large quantity it may cap both cerebral hemispheres. In time the coloring matter of the blood more or less disappears, Avhen the decolorized clots present the a]ipearance of membranes of varying hues, such as are found in the arachnoid cavity after head injuries, and were formerly erroneously considered to be of inflam- matory origin. “ In slight extravasations” only a mere film is found after the lapse of a few days, “ so delicate and so slightly tinged as easily to escape notice.” In most cases these false membranes are firndy attached to the parietal arachnoid, present a smooth, polished, serous-like surface, and are throughout supplied Avith numerous vessels, Avhich are often detectable by the naked eye. Even as early as the tAventy-third day, these characteristic appearances may be well marked. At first “ soft and pul])y,” these membranes may subsequently l iecome “ leathery, fibrous, or even cartilaginous.”® Owing to the serous-like covering that these effusions early become coated Avith, there is a most decepti\'e appearance of the hemorrhage haAnng been betAveen the parietal arachnoid and the dura mater, thus stripping off the former. It has been only of late years that the French pathologists have pointed out the true nature of these ap})earances. Doubtless the organization of these clots is effected after the manner of those found after the ligation of arteries, so ably investigated by liindfieisch and by E. 0. Shakespeare. When the eftusion is huge, instead of false membranes we may have true cysts fonned, either single or multilocular, containing anything from the A^ariously decolorized remains of the original clot, up to what appears to be pure serum. Recent clots may also be found, ' Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 576. * To Sir Prescott Hewett’s article On the Extravasation of Blood into the Cavity of the Arach- noid (Med.-Chirurgical Trans., vol. xxviii.), and to the same anthor’s article on Injuries of the Head, in Mr. Holmes’s System of Surgery, I am largely indebted, and would here once for all acknowledge the fact. ® This refers merely to i\m\x phijsical, not to their histological api)earances. VOL. V.—4