5 INJURIES OF THE SCALP. cannot get vent, but become widel}" diffused, setting np the most violent inflammation in those of intemperate habits, or with constitutions broken down from any cause. Even those in apparently robust health do not always escape. Contused and, lacerated ivounds are usually the result of heavy blows, such as falls, blows from bludgeons, etc. Because a Avound appears clean-cut, as if incised, it cannot always lie inferred that the vulnerating body Avas sharp, as, OAving to the flrmness of the subjacent hone, a fall on a plane surface Avill oftentimes give rise to Avounds Avhich closely resemble those made by cutting instruments. I merely mention this fact on account of its medico-legal bearings. These Avounds Avhen extending through the aponeurosis, gape markedly, and most extensive flaps may he formed, the scalp falling doAvn over the face, upon the hack of the neck, etc. Even the ears are sometimes torn otf Avith lateral flaps. Usually a large portion of these Avounds unites by flrst intention, and Avhere this fails, healing by grannlation completes the cure. As these flaps carry their entire vascular supply Avitli them, sloughing is very limited, and tlie most mangled, hruised-looking scalp-tissue may recover its vitality. It is a golden rule to let nature, not the surgeon’s knife or scissors, determine Avhat j)ortion of an injured seal}) shall he removed. Portions of the pericranium may also he torn off with the flap, or destroyed, by the body producing the injury. But even extensive denudation of the bone does not necessarily involve exfoliation of the external table of the sknll, for in most instances the se})arated flap adheres. If })rimary union fails, either granulations cover in the lione from the surrounding tissues, or the outer table becomes vascularized from the di})loe, so that sometimes merely small scales are throAvn off, while at other times no osseous tissue can he detected in the discharges.' Prognosis.—Seal}) Avounds are chiefl_y dangerous from their conpilications, Avhich Avill be })resently considered. Even coni})lete scal})ing, Avith removal of the }jericranium, may he recovered fromS Treatment.—If the Avound he of any size, the seal}) must he shaved in its vicinity. Careful search having been made for any foreign hoilies, or for a })Ossihle fracture, the Avound should lie thoroughly cleansed Avith some anti- se})tic solution, the best being mej’curic liicldoride, one })art to tAvo thousand. I have not mentioned the arrest of hemorrhage, Avhich is usually free, because if it have not ceased from ex})Osure to tlic air and Avashing Avith the bichlo- ride solution, the subsequent dressing Avith corn})resses and bandage Avill usually he all that is necessary. If this do not suflice, both ends of the divided A^essels can usually he readily either tAvisted or tied. kSometimes the ends retract into the dense filiro-cellular tissue, Avhere they can he best secured by })assing a needle armed Avith a ligature arouml the vessel, including some of the surrounding tissues. Ligatures are rarely necessary exee})t when the })atients are drunk and imrnly, Avhen I have known them to })ull off the dress- ings and start the hemorrhage afresh. A Avonnd involving the lower part of the tem}:)oral fossa may, hoAvever, give rise to hemorrhage Avliich may })rove ditflcult to arrest. “ [Should the Ifleeding recur and liccome dangerous, not- Avithstanding all our local means, the question of a}i})lying a ligature to the external or to the common carotid artery may arise.”® A^arious measures have been reconimended for coa})tating seal}) Avounds. If of moderate size, and not ga})ing much, small locks of hair on 0})})0site sides of the Avound may he })assc(l through perforated sliot, Avhich can then he clanqied, as AgneAV suggests. I have achieved the same result by tying together locks ' See page 8 for treatment of denuded external talkie by drilling into diploii. 2 Agnew, Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 257. ^ Hewett, Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 570.