602 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. surgeon in determining his conduct, together with the clear conviction that less severe measures have been exhausted, and that the case is such as to demand such a step being carried out. No doubt the use of antiseptics has greatly diminished the risk of such operations, and the mark left may, by a careful planning of the line to be followed, together with the rapid union which anti- septic surgery insures, be very insignificant. The propriety of getting rid of scrofulous collections is now well understood, and contrasts with the old fear of such interference causing outbreaks elsewhere. The treatment of carcinoma in the neck is, as might he expected, most unsatisfactory. Grenerally it is quite beyond the surgeon’s aid. It cannot, as a rule, he completely excised from the connections which it has formed by the time its true nature is recognized, and as the tumors are usually secondary to other, like growths elsewhere—which are often still more inaccessible—• it would be of little use to remove them. Interstitial injections are highly dangerous in such growths, and chloride-of-zinc arrows are of very limited application in this region of the body. Lymphoma.—The treatment of this disease in any form is confessedly very diflicult and unsatisfactory. All irritating applications tend to make these tumors increase with enhanced speed, and electricity has proved quite useless. When the growths are part of a general aftection (lymphosarcoma), no remedy is of any value, and interference is to be declined, though arsenic and phos- phorus, when injected into the tumor or given internally, so as to develop their poisonous eflects, have been said, on reliable authority, occasionally to arrest the progress of the disease. These favorable results, however, have too rarely been secured to make the risk of their employment quite justifi- able. Arsenic in particular, when used by interstitial injection, occasions most violent eftects, ditficult, or impossible, to regulate or command; and there seems good reason to suppose that any influence which the drugs named have in retarding the growth of the tumor, is only due to the general de- pression which they bring about in the nutrient functions—an effect equally seen after attacks of acute rheumatism and erysipelas. From the loose con- nection of lymphoma, it is easy to shell it out before it has attained a great size; but if the constitution be involved, a rapid recurrence will take place. If tbe larynx or trachea be seriously compressed, it may be necessary to open the windpipe. An observation of Duplay is worthy of record, though its clinical use has not been found great. It is this, that if a tumor of the nature now under consideration increases in the direction of the lynqihatic vessels, that is, downwards towards the chest, the woj-st opinion may be formed of its nature; but if, on the contrary, it grows in the contrary direction, that is, against the flow of the lymph, a more favorable prognosis may be formed. When similar growths occur in other regions of the body, all interference is of course plainly unjustifiable. Fatty, fibrous, and cartilaginous tumors can only be excised, if they are inter- fered with at all. If they are increasing, the sooner such a step is taken the better. A deep dissection will, in all likelihood, be required to effect the removal of fibroma and enchondroma, and no small ditticulty may attend the se])aration of their deep connections. So great has been the intricacy of their relations in not a few recorded cases, that it has been found necessary to remove them piece by piece. The risk of wounding the veins is especially great. The treatment of venous or mixed nmvi of the neck differs in no way from their management elsewhere, except that coagulant injections are here very dangerous, from the risk of clots being carried into the blood stream. Arte- rial nasvi are best excised or strangulated by passing needles under them and