44 INJURIES OF TUB HEAD. sagittal suture, the depression of the right hone being fully two lines below the cranial surface; yet the brain itself was totally uninjured.^ Separation of the sagittal suture has, in several recorded instances, resulted in extensive intracranial extravasation of blood, requiring the use of the trephine upon one or both sides of the median line. In one instance this condition was indicated by tlie pi-esence of coma, witli “ a longitudinal elevation extending the whole length of the sagittal suture;”^ when incised, this gave vent to liquid blood and revealed a sutural separation. Subsequently the trephine was applied upon either side of the median line, evacuating much blood, and resulting in the cure of the patient. Treatment.—This is essentially that of fracture of the skull, except when the injury causes intracranial hemorrhage, when the treatment is that which has just been indicated in relating M. ISIouton’s case. All compound fractures of the skull, whether operated upon or not, should be thoroughly irrigated with the corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, or some other antiseptic solution, and then carefully dressed with sublimate gauze, a full Listerian dressing, or, in default of these, with any other antiseptic dressing that the circumstances may admit of. Injuries of the IVIeninges and Brain. Intracranial Extravasations ■ of Blood. — Blood may be effused (1) between the dura mater and the skull; (2) in the cavity of the arachnoid ; (3) on the surface of the brain—that is, in the meshes of the pia mater; (4) in the cerebral substance ; and (5) in the ventricles of the brain. Although these collections may occur without fracture, they are much more commonly con- comitants of such an injury. (1) Extravasation between the Dura Mater ami the Skull.—The sources of the hemorrhage are threefold, viz : (1) the small vessels i)assing from the mem- brane to the bone; (2) the middle meningeal artery; and (3) the venous sinuses of the brain. Extravasations from the first source are usually very limited, and have been mentioned in connection with bone contusion; the effusions which come from ruptures of the meningeal artery or its branches are by far the most common, for “ out of thirty-one cases of fracture of the skull, accompanied by extravasation,” .... the hemorrhage proceeded “ from the middle meningeal artery in twenty-seven cases.Jfxtravasation due to rupture of one of the sinuses is the least common variety, but when it does occur may be veiy extensive, as in a case reported by Ilewett, in which the lateral sinus was torn, “just as it turns under the petrous portion of the temporal bone.”^ The anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery is usually said to have been ruptured at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. A moment’s consideration of the course pursued by the artery, after its entrance through the foramen spinosum, will show that in the most common variety of basal fracture of the skull, viz., that which involves the middle fossa, the vessel may be torn at any point from its entrance into the skull up to the anterior inferior parietal angle. The artery, in addition, frequently divides into two branches of nearly equal size, soon after its entrance into the skull. 1 Hewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 592. 2 Moiiton (Quesnay, Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, translated by Ottley, p. 8). 3 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 575. < It has been demonstrated by experiment, that a clot between the dura mater and bone, equalling one-twelfth the capacity of the cranium, will produce coma and death within a few hours.