39 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. maintained the untenable view, that, both from the ear and nose, these watery discharges resulted from a filtration of the serum of the blood through the frayed walls of some of the venous sinuses in relation with the fractured hone. The membrane of the internal ear, by an increased secretion of the liquor Cotunnii,* has been also considered as the source of the discharge, as well as the arachnoid cavity and the subarachnoid spaces. Examining these views in detail, I would say, in the first place, that the analysis by Chatiid proves that the fluid contains only a trace of allmmen, and a large quantity of sodium chloride, a fact which I have myself observed. This explodes the blood-serum theory. When the lines of fracture of the petrous bone do not involve the internal auditory meatus, but the fissure traverses the middle and internal ear, rupturing the rnembrana tympani and the membranous labyrinth, we certainly cannot affirm that some of the fluid is not liquor Cotunnii, though its large quan- tity Avould tend to negative that view.^ Besides, more than one specimen has been dissected by competent anatomists, Avhere neither fracture existed nor any abnormal communication betAveen the two cavities, and Avhere yet a free aqueous fioAV took place from the ear. Thus, as one instance:— A man fell about twenty feet, and striking his head produced a scalp wound, not denuding the bone, at the upper back part of the head. Upon admission to St. George’s Hospital there Avas a discharge of bloody fluid from the ear, which the next morning was roseate, gradually became clear, and was so profuse that two ounces were collected in an hour’s time. On tlie third day it decreased and became [)urulent. It had been \'ery |)rofuse, soaking the pillow-case so as to require towels to be placed beneath the head. The patient dying upon the seventh day. Sir P. Ilewetd and Mr. H. Gray repeatedly examined the specimen, but detected neither fracture nor abnormal communication between the middle and internal ear; but the membrane lining the tympanum and mastoid cells was “ intensely vascular and covered with muco-purulent secretion, while the rnembrana tympani was i'reely ruptured at its anterior inferior part.” “ The membrane lining the cavities of the internal ear was natural in every respect.” Tliat certain of these free Avatery discharges really proceed from the sub- arachnoid spaces—that is, consist of cerebro-spiual fluid—is incontestably proved, by both analysis, dissection, and experiments upon the living patient® and upon the cadaver. M. liobert Avas the first, as far as I ani aware, to thoroughly investigate the subject and place it on a firm basis. To alloAV the escape of cerebro-spiual fluid through the ear, the fracture must traverse the internal auditory meatus, open into the tympanum, and at the same time tear through the meningeal sheath® Avhich incloses the seventh nerve in the auditory meatus, an<l also ru})ture the rnembrana tympani. There is at least one specimen, dissected by IleAvett, Avhich proves that the tubular sheath of the arachnoid surrounding the nerves may I)e torn, coiu- • Marjolin, Diet. <le Med., 2e edit., tome xxix. p. 570. ^ Ibid. Claude Bernard Las also sliown that both the cerel)ro-spinal fluid and that poured out in basal fractures often contain a trace of sugar. So little albumen is present tbat it may not fairly coagulate witb beat or nitric acid, but only some cloudiness or oi>acity be tbus pro- duced. 3 Robert (Arebives Geii6rales de M^decine, 4eser., tome ix.) relates a case Avbere 1000 grammes of fluid were lost by tbe ear iu sixty-six Lours. ■* Op. cit., vol. i. p. 593. 5 Congestion of tbe intracranial circulation, effected by pressing ujron tbe jugular veins and closing the rnoutb and nose witb tbe band so as to prevent respiration, in tbe case of a boy witb fractured base, produced a marked increase in tbe flow of watery fluid from tbe ear (Hilton). ® Robert (loc. cit.) says tbat even a tear of the dura mater lining tbe internal auditory meatus, at the point where tbe arachnoid is reflected upou tbe nerves, will allow tbe exudation of cerebro- spinal ttuiil.