1066 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. less simple nature. Rokitansky says of the serous cysts of the peritoneum —regarding them as inflammatory products—“ a pseudo-membrane includes, during its organization, a portion of the fluid exudation, and receives an internal serous investment. Such bladders are either connected ivith the peri- toneum by means of a neck or stalk, or adhere to it by a broad base.”' Ivnowsley Thornton has removed a cysto-sarcoma Aveighing tAventy-tive pounds from the mesentei’y ; and in another case a multilocular cystic tumor Avhich Avas situated in the omentum. Thornton believes that these cysts originate in the sub-endothelial layer of the })eritoneum, and he refers to a case in Avhich “ the Avhole cellular tissue of broad ligament, pelvis, peri- toneum, etc., seemed to have undergone cj^stic degeneration, the cysts all containing solid papillomatous groAvtlis.”'^ llahershon describes a case of “ fibrous cyst Avhich could in great measure be separated from the peritoneum, and contained 'many pints of slightly milky serum it reached from the right iliac region as high as the liver, and closely resembled ovarian dropsy ; it is described as a “ spurious cyst in the peritoneum,” and AA’as considered to have been of inflammatory origin—a vieAv supported by the fact that another cyst Avas found betAveen the colon and the stomach, and that the intestines Avere matted together.^ Dr. Buckner^ relates a case of simple cyst of the mesentery AA'hich he mistook for an ovarian tumor. He completely removed it from between the layers of the peritoneum forming the mesentery, and divided and ligatured the superior and middle mesenteric arteries in doing so. The patient recovered. Mr. Lawson Taifl met Avith a very similar cyst, wdiich he mistook for a parovarian cyst and exposed by laparotomy. After tapping the cyst he stitched its edges to the edges of the external Avound, and introduced a drainage tube. The patient recovered. A case of cystic tumor of the mesentery, which caused death by intestinal obstruc- tion and peritonitis, occurred at St. George’s Hospital.® The tumor Avas filled Avith a semi-solid, milky-AA’hite matter like putty, and a milky fluid ; it hung doAvn into the right side of the pelvis, and no less than four coils of intestine Avere found Avound around it; the lower end of the small boAvel Avas tAvisted cork-screAV fashion around a stem formed by the mesentery. The pultaceous cyst-contents consisted of fat Avith much granular matter. The cyst itself Avas of a fibrous structure. The mesenteric glands—some of Avhich were in contact with the cyst—Avere quite healthy. The ovaries AA’ere healthy. It occurred in a married Avoman aged twenty-three, Avho had been con- fined four months before, and Avho Avas suckling Avhen attacked by the symptoms of peritonitis and obstructed boAvel, Avhich ended fatally in ten days. Dr. Werth, of Kiel,’ has reported a successful extirpation of a cyst of the mesentery, Avhich was- supposed to have originated in the mesenteric lymphatic glands. The woman had noticed the tumor three months before she sought advice ; it Avas discovered during a sharp attack of colic, from Avhich she often sufi'ered, especially at meal times and after unusual exertion. She Avas reduced in strength and emaciated. The tumor lay above the j>elvic iidet and was very movable ; it Avas unconnected Avith the uterus and ovaries. Soon after an examination under chloroform, severe pain came on about the umbilicus, and the tumor, wdiich had before lain close to the abdominal Avail, sank into the pelvis and Avas covered by intestine. A tense cord could be felt on the left, near the middle line, running from the umbilical region to the pelvic inlet. Laparotomy was undertaken on account of excessive vomiting and failing strength. The intestines being pushed aside, this cord Avas found to run from the root of the mesen- ' Manual of Path. Anatomy, Syd. Soc. Translation, vol. ii. p. 18. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. bond., vol. xxix. p. 150. 3 Patliological and Practical Observations on Diseases of the Abdomen, etc., p. 573. ■* Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, Oct. 1852. ® Diseases of Ovaries, 4th ed., p. 223. ® British Med. Journ., May 16, 1857, p. 405. ’ Archiv. fur Gynakologie ; Med. Times and Gazette, July 8, 1882, ji. 52.