INJURIES OF THE SCALP. 3 Complications and Sequelae.—Contusion of bone, cerebral concussion, rup- ture of a scalp-artery, intra-cranial bemorrbage, and erysipelas niay com- plicate contusions of the scalp. Abscess, neuralgia, cepballHematoina, traumatic aneurism, and pyiemia—the latter usually the result of bone- contusion—are occasional sequelre. Numerous other after-effects of scalp contusions have been described, but they are reallj' tlie results of injuries of the scalp-nerves, of an undetected cranial fracture, or of secondary brain lesions.* Treatment.— Quiet, for cerebral complications may arise ; cold, evaporating lotions, such as spirit and water, or muriate of ammonium in solution—or even a bladder of ponnded ice, if the effusion tend to spread, or pulsate—and attention to the state of the bowels, amply suffice for the majority of cases. If suppuration occur, the treatment should be that of an abscess elsewhere. If a traumatic aneurism form, compression or acu})ressure of the vessel should be resorted to. Erysipelas, cerebral concussion, contusion of bone, and pytemia, will be considered in connection with ivounds of the scalj).^ iSTeu- ralgias must be treated upon general principles, or by excision of the scar, if they prove obstinate. Effusions of Blood.—These may occur, 1, in the dense subcutaneous tissue, where the Iffood forms a bard, unyielding lump ; 2, in the subaponeurotic cellular tissue, either (a) circumscribed, or [b) diffused, when it sometimes forms a swelling of considerable extent, giving a crackling sensation when pressed by the finger; and 3, beneath the pericranium. In the last two situations, these collections have been called cepludhceinatoinata. The nature of the contents varies with the time after the accident at wliicb they are examined. The blood may “ be arterial or venous, in a more or less fluid state ; or a thick, viscid fluid of a dark, bistre color; or bloody serum with clots; or serum alone.’’^ The wall of the cavity, originally formed by con- densation of the environing tissues, eventually becomes lined with a serous- like, secreting membrane. Sometimes the sac is lined with layers of “fibrine’' (lym}ih?) })reseuting the appearances found in a consolidating aneurism, or in a solidified bursal tumor.^ Cephnllucinidoiiiata.—Certain examples of the so-called caput succedarieum. of the newly-born, the result of tedious or instrumental lalior, are entirely or chiefly filled with blood, althougli from their rapid disappearance the major- ity certainly seem to be due merely to serous effusion. A caput succedaneum is usually (lescribed as being subaponeurotic, but Agnew considers this to be an error, and believes that the majority are sim[)ly subcutaneous. When these swellings, due to effused blood, are diffused at the outset, they must certainly be of the subaponeurotic form; but when circumscribed from the first, they may be either subcutaneous or subpericranial. Subaponeurotic cephalhccmatomuia, occur in the form of soft, fluctuating tu- mors, usually situated over one parietal eminence.® The margins of the swell- ing are somewhat indurated. Although considered almost })eculiar to the newly-born, they are, according to Gant, of frequent oecui-rcnce in older children as the result of falls or blows.® I have myself seen a very large one upon the head of a boy about thirteen years of age. Subpericranial cephalhceinatomcda are of very rare occurrence, according to * flross, System of Surgery, Gth od., vol. ii. p. 21. 2 gge jiage 4. ® Ilewett, Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. 1. p. 574. ■’ See Hewett, ihiil. ; and Vol. 11., page 6!)6, of this Encyclopaedia. ^ Bryant records a large one over the occipital bone. Manual for the Practice of Surgery, 2d Am. ed., p. 154. ® Science and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 147.