MORBID GROWTHS OF THE TRACHEA, 748 Operator. Cause of deatli. Billroth. Death in 7 months from recurrence. Holmer. ii (( Novaro. i i 8 “ sutFocation hy pen (quill?) which had slipped into trachea. No recurrence. Bruns. i i 9 “ recurrence. Kosinski. ( ( 9 “ “ Reyher. ( i 9 “ “ Novaro. i i “ ? (‘‘Sudden.”) Czerny. U 15 “ “ recurrence. Czerny. 11 18 “ Kocher. ii 2 years “ cancerous disease of abdomen. No local recurrence. Thiersch. ii 2| “ “ recurrence. Durante. u 2 or 3 days. Holmes. i i 40 hours from collapse. III marked contrast to the table of deaths, it is pleasant to turn to the follow- ing record, Avhich shows remarkably happy results in patients who, as did live in the above list, survived the operation longer than one year, and all of whom are possibly still living;— Name of operator. Thierscli. Patient living Winiwarter. “ “ Novaro. “ “ Hahn. Gussenhauer. “ “ Gussenbauer. “ “ Maydl. Kocher. “ “ Latest report of patient. 3 years and 7 months after operation. 3 u 4 ii u 2 “ 3 “ “ “ 2 u u u 2 “ over “ “ 1 year and 9 months “ “ 1 U 4 U 1 4 << <4 44 Professor Schede has been kind enough to write me concerning two addi- tional laryngectomies recently performed by him, under conditions such as to justify expectation of highly satisfactory results. In addition, it may he stated that there are twelve cases, published and unpublished, the subjects of which are noted as living at periods varying between five weeks and nine months after the operation. From the record presented, it is evident that life may lie prolonged in some individual cases of carcinoma for periods sufiicient to justify laryngectomy. It is incumbent upon surgery, therefore, to eliminate the elements of failure, so that the procedure may be confined to cases of promise. A vigorous individual, with an intrinsic carcinoma as yet untrenching upon contiguous structures, and exhibiting no evidence of lymphatic involvement, may be a proper sub- ject for the operation. Put despite the exceptional cases cited, the general prospect, on the score of the greatest good to the greatest number, bardly looks more encouraging than it did when I recently made it the occasion of a siiecial investigation.’ Morbid Growths of the Trachea. Benign Growths.—The trachea may become the seat of every variety of benign neoplasm. As shown by the sulijoined table of reported instances of veritable neoplasms, such growths are more freipiently situated on the mem- branous portion than on the cartilaginous, and are more frequent in the upper }iortion than in the loiver. (^uite a number occur at the bifurcation. Some are associated with similar growths in the larynx, some with growths in the bronchi, and occasionally one with growths in the oesophagus; some, esjie- cially ccchondrornata ami osteomata, are associateiI Avith tulierculosis. Adults are affected more than children, and males more than females. The causes are obscure. The meagre records of the patients’ occupations furnish no clew in that direction. ' Does Excision of the Larynx tend to the Prolongation of Life ? (Transactions of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, 1883.)