468 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. Ill cases of liarelip complicated with intermaxillary projection, the promi- nent portion of the jaw may, in very early infancy, be pressed back to its proper level. This may be accomplished with the thnmlj and fingers, or Avith strong forceps guarded Avith buckskin. But Avhen the bone hasibecome too firm to be reduced in tins Avay, it may be partly divided Avith Butcher’s forceps, and then pressed back into its jiosition. In children of larger groAvth, or in persons of mature age, the projecting portion of the jaAV must be removed, Avith the aid of a saAv, chisel, or cutting-forceps. In cases of double, complicated harelip, AAdiere the columna nasi is deficient, and Avhere the intermediate portion of the lip appears to be an appurtenance of the nose, this portion of the lip sliould be used in the reconstruction of the columna nasi. For this purpose it should be dissected off from the project- ing portion of the bone, and should be reflected backAvard so that its posterior surface may be applied to tbe inferior part of the septum nasi, the tAvo corres- ponding surfaces being freshened for the purpose, and being held in contact by one or more sutures. It is best, in such cases, to leave the neAv columna of its full breadth, until it has firmlj’ united Avith the adjacent parts, and then to trim it to its proper size and shape. There is a diftei’ence of opinion among surgeons as to the best time of operating for harelip, Avhen the surgeon is consulted at the time of birth. There is a general agreement that the operation should be performed before the commencement of dentition. In cases of simple harelip, AAdiether the fissure be single or double, I Avould recommend the performance of the opera- tion about three or four months after tlie birth of tlie child, as at that time tbe parts have acquired a good degree of development, and the irritation of dentition has not yet commenced. But in cases of complicated harelip, Avhether there be maxillary projection, or fissure of tlie alveolar portion of the jaw and of the bony palate, it is better to operate at a much earlier period, as the pressure of the reconstructed lip exerts an important influence in dim- inishing the deformity of the bones AAdiile thej^ are in a soft and yielding condition. Some surgeons recommend tbe performance of the operation on the day of the child’s birth. This practice seems to me objectionable, as the child has not yet recovered from the shock attending the transition from intra-uterine to extra-uterine life. JSTeAv-born infants generally lose weight during the first Aveek of extra-uterine life, and do not regain Avhat they have lost until after the lapse of another Aveek. I think that the most fiiAmrable time for tbe performance of the operation, in these complicated cases, is Avhen the child is three or four Aveeks old, as at that time the functions of extra- uterine life, circulation, respiration, and digestion, liaA^e become fully estab- lished, and the bones of the face have not yet undergone any remarkable increase of solidification. If the surgeon is not consulted until the child is five or six months old, it is generally best to defer the operation until the first dentition is completed, as during the progress of dentition children are more subject than at other periods to convulsions and other serious derangements of the nervous system. A congenital fissure in the median line of the lower lip has been observed in a very small number of cases. The treatment is like that of simple harelip. Wounds of the Lips. These Avounds bleed very freely, but the hemorrhage may be readily arrested by torsion or by ligature; or the sutures, by Avbich the Avound is closed, may be so adjusted as to compress the bleeding vessels. When the