DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 219 and occasional bathing of the closed eyes with fresh, cool water, even without any topical treatment with astringents, will lead to a cure. If there is much secretion, and gluing of the eyelids during sleep, a little pure vaseline, fresh butter, or lard, rubbed on the lids at bedtime, will add much to the patient’s comfort. In addition, a solution of live grains to the ounce, of boracic acid or biborate of sodium, dropped freely into the eyes, night and morning, will expedite the cure. A very weak solution of other astrin- gents, such as sulphate of zinc or copper, or nitrate of silver, one-half grain to the ounce, used in the same way, will hasten recovery. If, in spite of this mild and proper treatment, the disease persists beyond a few days, with sponginess of the conjunctiva, and more free secretion of mucus, the carefully everted conjunctiva may be quickly and lightly brushed with a solution of five grains to the ounce, of nitrate of silver, immediately washed otf thor- oughly with cool water. The crystal or solution of sulphate of copper may be used in the same way. This brushing should not be applied more than once a day, and with great discrimination, keeping up the milder applications in the intervals. As the symptoms subside, the remedies should Ije applied more lightly and less frequently, till the patient is quite well. Of course, reading or close use of the eyes, or exposure to wind, dust, smoke, and such irritants, must be forbidden. There is a form of hyperfemia of the conjunc- tiva, but generally with little or no secretion, which persists in a chronic way, and which is not improved, but aggravated, by astringents, strong or weak, and which is often treated by inexperienced persons as granular lids. It is the congestion due to necessary strain of the accommodation in hyperopic and astigmatic patients. Correct this strain by the use of aj)propriate glasses, and the conjunctival redness disappears spontaneously. This probable com- plication, in the treatment of all chronic, persistent cases of conjunctivitis or of blepharitis, should never be forgotten. The local treatment of 2^^<-^'Hctcmdar or strumous covjunctivitis, is the same as that already described, with the addition of certain mercurial ap[)lications known to have a liappy effect in dissipating the phlyctenulre. A little pure and finely powdered calomel may be dusted upon the eye once a day, bring- ing it in contact with each phlyctenula if possible. A dry earners hair brush may be dipped into the powder, and a little quickly sent into the eye by tapping the brush with the finger. The surgeon will soon learn the knack of doing this before the patient can wink. The same thing may be accomplished by using a salve once a day. One grain of calomel with a drachm of vaseline or lard, well rubbed together, causes very little irritation, when a small piece from the end of a probe is put in the eye by everting the lower lid. The dust or the salve should be used once a day, and continued for some days after the phlyctenulai have vanished, to prevent the formation of others. Relapse is the tendency in this disease, and can only be perma- nently overcome liy the use of constitutional, antistrumous remedies. Quinine in tonic doses, iodide of iron, the liypojihosphites, cod-liver oil, good nutri- tious food at regular meals, great attention to the skin, and daily out-door exercise in the pure air, kept up faithfully for months, and even years, will not only help to cure the disease, but will fortify the little patient against many others of the same fatal class. Treatment of Purulent Conjunctivitis in Infants.—ISTo disease yields more readily to prompt and judicious treatment than ophthalmia neonatorum, and none is more dangerous to sight when neglected or badly treated. Constant cleanliness, day and night, must be observed throughout. The irritating pus must not be allowed to stand in the eyes, but must be frequently removed with great gentleness, so as not to scratch or abrade the corneal ejuthelium. Ao syringing is safe for the eye or the operator, and the eyes should not