DISEASES AND INJURIES OP THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. 301 These may either be introduced directly into the substance of the mass, for tlie purpose of breaking it into fragments, or they maj" be passed liat^vise betAveen it and the Avails of the meatus, Avith the vieAV of dissecting it out as a Avhole, or in larger pieces. For this latter purpose, the curette Avill be found a most excellent instrument. Angular forceps, of delicate construction, can also scarcely be dispensed Avith in removing the loosened mass or its component parts. As Ave approach the memljrana tympani, in our mining operations, the slender silver probe Avill be found to be of great service, as it may, Avith care, be employed in loosening the inner end of the ceruminous mass from its attachments to the drum-membrane, or to the anterior inferior cul-de-sac of the meatus. In conclusion, let me remind the reader that manipulations of this kind should not be indulged in, unless tlie operator possess delicacy of touch, a thorough knoAvledge of the topogniphical anatomy of the auditory canal, and properly constructed instruments. It sometimes happens, in these cases of impacteil cerumen, that a furuncle develops in the obstructed meatus, or that an acute inflammation is set up in the adjacent middle ear. In the presence of such a complication, the <;{uestion arises, shall Ave allow the intercurrent inflammation to run its course, before Ave make the attempt to remove the impacted cerumen, or shall Ave undertake the latter operation without furtlier delay ? The pain attending either of the tAVO combinations mentioned, is apt to be very severe, and the inflammation is generally more extensiA^e and of a more serious character than Avhen the auditory caiial is free from obstructions. If, therefore, Ave can, by any means at our command, remove these obstructions at once, it is clear tliat this is the proper course to pursue. If the orifice of the canal is closed, through (Edematous sAA^elling of the soft parts, it Avill be found comparatively easy to dilate it gradually by means of AFilde’s s})ecula, or by the aid of conical mops of cotton, Avound firmly around the end of a probe or cotton-holder, and smeared Avith vaseline. As soon as the ceruminous mass has been exposed to vieAV, Ave should proceed in precisely the same manner as if the case Avere one of a simple nature. Furuncles, or Boils.—-The external auditory canal seems to possess a special predisposition to furuncular inflammation. Our knoAvledge of the causes which give rise to the disease is A^ery scanty. An irritating discharge from the middle ear, or from the deeper parts of the meatus (as, for example, in eczema), very often leads to the fonnation of furuncles in the outer or cai’- tilaginous portion of the canal. It has also been observed that the disease is often encountered in persons Avhose general healtli is not rpiite up to the proper standard. Furuncles usually develop gradually. The patient first notices a little pain in the region of the ear, and, on pressing Avith las finger upon the parts, finds that they are slightly tender. (Gradually the pain increases in severity, and the ear feels full and heavy. Deafness is not observed nntil the tumor reaches such a size as to close the meatus at the point involved. The motions of the jaAV are apt to cause pain, and in some cases there is Avell-marked (Edema in the neighborhood of the affected ear. Rupture of the abscess may take place spontaneously as early as on the second day, but as a rule Ave must not look for this event before the third or fourth day. The 'prognosis is decidedly favorable. The disease shov's no tendenc}" to extend imvard, in the direction of the middle eaf, and it is only in cpdte rare cases that the abscess, instead of breaking into the external auditory canal, burrows doAvinvard and fonvard in the direction of the parotid gland, or backAvard and doAvnAvard in the direction of the soft parts lying beloAV the mastoid process.