646 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. torn, but may be employed to divide tbe inferior dental nerve, so as to save it from being pulled out of the bony canal. When from the nature of the tumor the leverage of the jaw is lost, and consequently disarticulation of the condyle becomes difficult, recourse may be had with great advantage to the broad spatula recommended by Professor Gross for disarticulating the condyle from the glenoid cavity. In this way the bone may be forced from its socket, and the risk of hemorrhage from the internal maxillary artery be completely avoided. Any bleeding vessels should be secured with ligatures, Avhen the lip should be united with harelip pins and the wound with sutures, care being taken to leave a dependent opening for the discharges. Closure of the Jaws. Inability to separate the jaws may be temporary or permanent. In the former case, setting aside cases of trismus from nervous affections, the cause is contraction of the muscles of mastication, especially the masseter, due to the irritation from an uncut wisdom-tooth. Owing to want of room between the second molar and the ramus of the jaw, or owing to some malposition of the tooth itself, the wisdom-tooth is unable to assume its normal position, and by the pressure which it exerts on the neighboring structures sets up irritation, which induces a state of tonic spasm of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. The majority of these cases occur, as might be anticipated, about the age of twenty, and the diagnosis is easy, unless very great swelling, and possibly abscess, should have supervened and obscured the nature of the case. The treatment consists in administering chloroform thoroughly, so as to relieve the spasm somewhat, and allow of the introduction of a screw-gag between the teeth, in order to separate the jaws. This must be done slowly and steadily, so as not to inflict injury upon the front teeth, and the back of the jaw may then be reached. If the wisdom-tooth is presenting in its normal position, a free division of the gum over it, and removal of the flaps thus made with scissors, wdll be sufficient treatment-, if the patient will patiently bear a little inconvenience for a time. But wffien there is obviously not space for the •wisdom-tooth to be erupted, room must be made by extracting the second molar, unless the wisdom-tooth itself can be reached and extracted, which is seldom the ease. Occasionally the extraction of the upper wisdom-tooth, against which the lower wisdom-tooth is pressing injuriously, may completel}^ relieve the trouble. In Avhatever way room is given, relief is sure to follow, and in the course of a few hours the spasm of the muscle passes off. Permanent closure of the jaws may depend upon destruction of the temporo- maxillary articulation, or more frequentty upon the contraction of cicatrices in the cheek, following ulceration or sloughing. This latter condition is frequently the result of gangrenous stomatitis occurring in childhood, in which case destruction of the whole thickness of the cheek not unfrequently takes place ; but the same result may follow an attack of fever, etc., at an}- age. When the mischief is confined to the lining membrane of the cheek, the soft parts become firmly adherent to the alveoli of both jaws, and a rigid cicatrix of fibrous tissue, in which bone not unfrequently develops, binds the jaws firmly together. Under these circumstances the patient is often nearly starved, for "he can only rub soft food between the teeth, or push it Avitli the finger behind the teeth, on the unaffected side. In the cases where destruction of the cheek has taken place, although tlie deformity is more