861 BURNS AND SCALDS OF THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES. After opening the abscess, nutritious diet, and stimulants and tonics, are needed to keep up or improve the patient’s strength. As the organs nearest the affected parietes are apt to become involved, such complications as jaundice, pneumonia, flatulent distension of the bowels, or constipation with pain, from delay in the passage of the intestinal contents, must be treated as they'arise. Sy|iipathetic vomiting is often a very troublesome symptom in the onset of the local inflammation, no matter in what part of the alidominal parietes it occurs; a subcutaneous injection of morphia sometimes acts like a-charm in checking this, besides having the additional effect of alleviating pain. Burns and Scalds op the Abdominal Parietes. Burns and scalds of the abdominal parietes are of a higlily dangerous character, but in civil life are seldom limited to this part of the body, being, as a rule, associated with burns or scalds of the thorax, back, oi’ nates and thighs. In military life they are the result of explosions, or the bursting of fire- arms, cartridge-boxes, shells, etc., and are, therefore, freriuently accompanied by lacerated and contused wounds of more consequence than tlie burns. On board ship, very terrible cases, from time to time, occur from the bursting of engine, boilers, etc. The usual classification of burns and scalds applies to those which affect the abdominal walls, and need not be further referred to here. Velpeau has compared burns with contusions from balls and shot; and considers it impossible to distinguish them from one another, or to saj’ how the eschar has been caused ; there is in each case sphacelus of the injurecl parts and reddening of the skin around, whilst the processes of separation of the slough and repair of the wound are the siime in both. The constitutional symptoms, prognosis, post-mortem appearances, and treatment, do not differ from those of burns and scalds of other })arts of the l)ody. There is no greater tendency to effusion into the serous cavities of the brain, chest, or abdomen; nor to muco-enteritis, or ulceration of the duodenum or otlier parts of the intestines, than in burns of corresponding degrees in other regions; though if the destruction of tissues is deep and extensive, there is danger of peritonitis from extension during the inflammatory stage. I have, during this stage of burns involving the abdominal wall, several times found great and widespread pain of the abdomen complained of; and when this has been accompanied with vomiting or diarrhma, as is sometimes the case, the prog- nosis has for a few days seemcul doubtful, because of the uncertainty as to how far the mucous coat of the stomach or bowel lias liecome involved. The cause of death, when ulceration occurs, is, generally, eitlier hemorrhage from the bowel, or peritonitis from perforation. Holmes^ gives an illustra- tion of a case in which the [lancreatico-duodenal artery was laid open by an ulcer of this kind. Ulceration of the intestine after burns is not, however, necessarily fatal. That extensive burns in every }»art of the liod}" may lie followed by ulcer of the duodenum, there is no doubt. Holmes states that in 16 cases out of 125, of intense burn, ulceration of the duodenum occurred, and ulcers in other parts of the intestines in two cases. Stokes found ulcers of the duodenum and stomach in one case of severe burn. Mayer says that ulceration occurs from 7 to 14 days after the injury, and is twice as frequent in females as in males. Holmes puts the earliest date at four days,and says tliat usually it is after a foi’t- night. Choostels states that, in eight cases, the shortest time within which ulceration of the bowel was noticed was 2 days, and the longest 17 days Princiiiles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed., xi. 107.