682 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. disease,^ to foreign body or neoplasm Avitliin the canal, or to disease in its walls, to paralysis of the dilating muscles of the larynx, to spasm of its con- stricting muscles, or even to spasm of the trachea.^ Intrinsic stricture may be due to temporary causes, such as inflammatory tumefaction, hemorrhagic etfusion, oedema, pseudomembrane, benignant neoplasm, foreign body, spasm, and paralysis; or it may be due to permanent causes, such as intussusception of the trachea,^ longitudinal involution,^ hypertrophic or hyperplastic tume- faction, neoplasms clinically or histologically malignant, granulation neo- plasms,® organized membrane, inflammatory adhesions between adjacent struc- tures®—such as vocal bands, ventricular bands, arytenoid cartilages, epiglottis, and pharynx—or cicatricial contraction following ulcerative processes, whether originally syphilitic or tuberculous, traumatic, the results of scalds and cau- terizations,^ or occurring in smallpox, measles,® scarlatina, dij^htheria,® or enteric fever.^® In cases of suicidal wound, the larynx may become occluded by a cutaneo-pharyngeal membranous partition." The extent to which the calibre of the trachea is diminished in extrinsic stricture, varies between extreme limits. When the pressure is great, it may become reduced to a mere slit-like passage, the direction of which, deter- mined by the direction of the compression, although most frequently trans- verse, may even be autero-posterior.^® As a rule, the only pathological condition noted has been the involution of the tract, without structural change. Hypertrophy of the mucous glamis and submucous connective tissue has frequently been found, however, in cases of compression by goitre,’® and perhaps under other similar conditions. Ossification of the laryngeal cartilages and extensive amyloid and calcareous degeneration of the tracheal walls have been noted occasionally," while attenuation and atrophy of the car- tilaginous rings are not uncommon, and Uven complete absorption may take place, so that the tube becomes perforated. In intrinsic stricture, the amount of constriction varies between the ex- tremest limits imaginable. Complete obliteration of the canal takes place in some instances, life being saved by tracheotomy below the seat of stricture. The tightest intra-laryngeal strictures are observed chiefly in cases of syphilis, and in cases of wounds, suicidal and gunshot. The most frequent cause in America is local syphilitic disease, and the next, suicidal wound; but enteric • Elsberg, Trans. International Medical Congress, vol. iii. London, 1881 ; DeHlois, Cases of congenital inenibranons web. New York Medical Journal, 1884*, Steavenson, Case of cyst in crico-thyroid membrane, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xviii. p. 330. 2 Allison, On Morbid Throat in Relation to Consumption, p. 12. London, 1869 ; Schnitzler, Wiener Klinik., Jan. 1877. 3 Lee, Med. Times and Gaz., May, 1874, p. 548. (In this case the posterior portion of the upprer tracheal ring approximated the cricoid cartilage to within one-quarter of an inch.) Long, Memor- abilien, 11 Jan. 1876. (In this case it was found, after death, that the third tracheal ring was forced inside the second when the head was flexed.) * Carrie, These. (In this case, in which sudden death, on removal of the canula, had been attributed to granulation neoplasm, there was found longitudinal involution, the result of approxi- mation of the pjosterior extremities of the severed cartilages.) 5 Bouchut, Gaz. des Hop., No. 35. 1874. (A fatal case after tracheotomy.) 6 This occurs sometimes after tracheotmny. Mackenzie, Am. Jour. Med. Sci., April, 1870, p. 487. ’ Stenosis of Larynx from Sulphuric Acid. Fieber, Allg. Wien. med. Ztg., No. 8, 1874. ® G. Hunter Mackenzie, Edinb. Med. Jour., Oct. 1883; Med. and Snrg. Rep., Oct. 27, 1883, p. 471. (Stenosis of Larynx.) s Complete laryngeal stenosis has been observed by Stoerk. Kiessebach has reported a case with stenosis of both larynx and trachea. Deutsch Ztg. f. Chir., Bd. xiii. S. 554. i> Reynaud, Journ. Univ. et Hebd., tome iii. p. 201. 1831 ; Bourgot, Thfese de Montpellier, 1844. ‘2 Balser, Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xci. H. 1. 12 Demme, Wurzburg med. Ztschrift, Bde. ii. uud iii. 1861 ; cited by Riegel. “ Balser, loc. cit.