CATARACT, 243 varies, but it is always less than in youth. Large dilatation with niydriatics, in old people, is favoi’able. Traumatic Cataract.—This class embraces all cataracts that directly fol- low injuries of the eye. There is nearly always a wound or rent in the capsule, by which the lens substance is exposed to the action of the aqueous. The' dangers of traumatic cataract are much less in young people than in old. In the former, the absorbents are more active, and the lens is soft and ready to dissolve. The hard, diy lens of the aged, is not capable of absorption. In all eases, the course of the cataract will be influenced by the complications. If the cornea and iris have both been wounded, or if the injury be tlirough the ciliary region especially, there ivill be great danger of loss of the eye. The additional lodgment of a foreign body in the eye, enhances the risks very greatly, unless the foreign body be lodged in the lens and can be extracted with it, when the prospect is far better than under other circumstances. If the lens has been luxated, as it is more apt to be in old subjects, the prognosis is most unfavorable. A very protracted course is certain, except Avheii im- mediate extraction is effected. There is great danger of loss of vitreous, in such cases, if an operation is attempted, but without an operation, glauco- matous disorganization is very sure to folloAV. Even a free iridectomy often does not prevent loss of the eye, with endless suflering, and enucleation may at last become necessary. Prolapsus of the iris in traumatic cataract is a common and troublesome complication. If no other serious injury be present, and the patient be young, tlie cataract may entirely disappear, in a few iveeks or months, by absorption, with recovery of useful vision. Even then the rent in the capsule may close, and a tough secondary cataract remain to seriously obstruct sight. Altogether, the prognosis of traumatic cataract is very unfavorable. • Treatment of Cataract.—The question of diagnosis and ilpeness of cataract being settled, we interrogate the retina with a view to treatment. Hothing but surgical interference can do any good. If the retina be sound, even in tlie most dense cataracts, there Avill be prompt perception of light and accurate projection. We test these points in a dark room, with the use of a candle, as follows; The room should be from fifteen to twenty feet long, and well dark- ened. A single, lighted candle is held at one end of the room, and the patient faces it from the other, the eye not tested being well closed. If he can tell quickly, when the candle is darkened by the hand, and suddenly uncovered, his central perception is good. Put that is not enough. Enforcing stillness of the eye in one direction, the covered candle is carried to the left, right, above and below, in tlie field of vision. In each new position, the light is suddenly uncovered. If he sees and can ])oint to it, without turning the eye, the field is intact and the projection good. Defects in the field, more or less complete and large, indicating detachment of the retina, choroidal patches, or other serious lesions, excite great doubts as to the probable success of an operation, or perhaps forbid it entirely. Slow and uncertain ])erce})tion in the line of vision, is a very bad indication. The distance at which a candle can be dis- cerned, is a good test of central acuity. If the light must be brought very close before it can be recognized, the prognosis is bad, and if not perceived at all, hopeless. The ophthalmoscope may lie used for the same trial. By turning the lamp low, and then throwing the light on the pupil, from differ- ent directions, the ready perception and integrity of the field may also be established. Xot only must an intelligent diagnosis of the state of perception, and the integrity of the visual field, be made out; but other questions must be settled,