654 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. be encouraged by warm-water gargling, or by inhalations of steam. If the lirst scarilication be effective, a second is rarely required in acute oedema. In chronic oedema, repetitions may be called for from time to time. When the effused products are semi-solid, they cannot be evacuated by scarilication. Should the hemorrhage from the operation fail to give relief under such conditions, tracheotomy is indicated. Its postponement sur- renders the patient to the risk of suffocation.* Too long a delay in trache- otomy may favor death by congestion of the lungs or brain, even though free respiration be re-established^ for a feiv hours oi’ a few days. Tracheotomy is preferable to laryngotomy, inasmuch as this sort of laryngeal oedema may extend down to the point of election for laryngotomy, and that operation may, therefore, fail to afford relief. Respiration having been secured by the tracheotomy, ample time will be afforded for deliberate scarification of the cedematous tissues—a proceeding which will be required should deglutition be impeded by tlie swelling. It is sometimes practicable, as suggested by Sti’o- meyer, to rupture the swollen mucous membrane by strong pressure with the finger at the moment of digital exploration. In one instance of oedema of the epiglottis, I was enabled to perfonn this little operation with success. Pressure and scarification failing to afford relief, tracheotomy is indicated at once, lest suffocation ensue before absorption can be induced by constitu- tional measures. Cases I’ecover sometimes under antiphlogistic treatment,^ and spontaneous subsidence occurs occasionally, too, within a few hours Avithout treatment; but it is better by far, as regards the safety of the entire number of patients, to perform tracheotomy than to run any risk. Indeed, tracheotomy once indicated in a case not under continuous professional super- Ausion, had better be performed as a precautionaiy measure even though the urgent symptoms have subsided. OtherAvise death may ensue in a fresh suffocative attack.^ Frequent compression of the parts to promote absorption (Thuillier), seems hardly AAmrthy of commendation. Catlieterization of the larynx usually fails to afford any relief, though Chiari claims good results from this procedure in the acute oedema attending nephritis and inflammation in the vicinity of the larynx.® In cases of moderate severity, unattended Avitli laiyngeal spasm, iced appli- cations externally, and ice in the mouth, Avill sometimes favor absorption of the effused serum, and obviate any necessity for resort to the knife. In hemorrhagic oedema^ puncture or incision of the mucous membrane is indicated to give A*ent to theertused blood. Pellets of ice in the mouth, and the administration internally of turpentine or ergot, or the hypodermic admin- istration of the latter, are likeAvise indicated. Should suffocative apnoca be threateiied, tracheotomy becomes indicated for the reasons already alluded to. In sub-glottic oedema^ scarification is the theoretic remedy; but the loca- tion of tlie lesion renders it impracticable to folloAV the indication. In mild cases, the constitutional influence of mercurials may be tried in the first instance. Tracheotomy once indicated, should not be long deferred, lest, as in an unfortunate instance in my early practice, it may fail to save the patient from tlie lethal effects of prolonged siqiercarbonization of the blood. In some cases of this kind it becomes impossible to dispense Avith the 1 For a recent case in point, see Jour, de Med. de Bordeaux, 24 Juin, IS83. 2 Pitman and Page, Lancet, April 21, I8(J0, p. 392. 3 AVilson, Med. Chir. Trans., vol. v. p. IfjG ; Arnold, ibid., vol. ix. p. 31 ; Anderson, Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. x. p. 284; Roberts, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 135. Roberts’s pa- tient died in a subsequent attack fourteen years afterward. * Jour, de Med. de Bordeaux, 24 Juin, 1883; Med. and Surg. Reporter, Sept. 8, 1883. p. 276. ® Mouatsschrift fiir Ohrenheilkuude, Juni, 1881 ; Rev. mens, de Lar., etc., Jauv. 1882, p. 25.