204 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. stance in the fundus. The same observations which were made above about ophtlialmoscopic evidences of penetration, and their significance, apply here. If the wound in the conjunctiva and sclerotic is large, and made either by a large body entering directly, or glancing, there will probably be loss of vitreous, recognized by its characteristic ropiness, and flabbiness, or collapse, of the globe. In this event, the foreign body may he lodged in the globe or not. In such destructive injuries there is almost certainl}' free hemorrhage within the eye, preventing any immediate inspection of the fundus. Eut^a wound of the sclerotic conjunctiva does not necessarily indicate penetration. The injuring bod}^ may have glanced backwards, between the conjunctiva and sclerotic, piercing the latter perhaps in the region of the equator, or sparing the globe and plunging deep into the socket. Sometimes a shot, or scale of metal, when driven with great force, passes entirely through the globe and lodges in the apex of the orbit. In rare cases a rough scale may be found grasped by the sclerotic, after having traversed the vitreous. Some years ago a machinist called on me with an injured eye. There was a large ragged wound in the sclerotic, the hall being flabby and filled with blood. I was sure that a rough scale of metal had entered deeply and had remained in the ball. Immediate enucleation was urged, but the patient would not consent. The eye was hopelessly lost, and great suffering was certain to ensue, with much danger to the other eye, and even to life. But I could not move him from his conviction that there was no foreign body in the eye, and that the sight could be restored. Of course I refused to prescribe, or to take any responsibility in the case, and the patient left me. Two weeks afterwards he returned, with fearful swelling of the eye and face, excruciating pain, and commencing rigidity of the muscles of the jaw. In this extreme condition, hopeless as it was, he begged for enucleation. The operation was very difficult, and when at last the optic nerve was embraced by the scissors, they would not close. After much trouble, how- ever, I succeeded in removing the eye. A large metallic scale was found embraced by the wounded sclerotic, one end projecting backwards by the side of the optic nerve. Idle tetanus continued, as I expected, and after the most fearful sufferings I ever wit- nessed, the poor victim died, two Aveeks after the operation. Another somewhat similar case was operated on by my associate. Dr. S. C. Ayres, on the 10th of April, 1876. Immediately after enucleation, the ball was opened and examined. To our surprise, no foreign body was found, but a cicatrix, three lines in length, was detected in the sclerotic just below the optic nerve, through which it had passed out of the eye into the orbit. The socket was at once examined by the ope- rator’s finger, and the end of the foreign body distinctly felt, wedged back into the apex. 'With a good deal of trouble, it was seized and removed by the forceps. It was five- eighths of an inch in length, and three-eighths in breadth, and somewhat like a piece of knife-blade. I have, several times, enucleated eyes wiiere the sight had been destroyed by hirdshot, and where none were found in the globe, but distinct cicatrices of entrance and exit. Such shot or bullets may sojourn in the socket per- fectly harmless. In one instance, however, I saw an aneurism of the 0})h- thahnic artery developed some months after such an injury. Occasionally a penetrating body, or a shot, spares the eyeball, but plunges behind it and wounds the optic nerve, causing instant loss of sight. Sudden loss of sight following a penetrating Avound of the orbit—the eye- ball itself having escaped injury—may thus be accounted for. I once saw a young man wbo had fallen from a load of hay on the sharp, slender tine of a steel fork. He jerked it out, with some difficulty, but never saw light after- wards. When I examined him many years afterwards, I found the cicatrix in the upper lid, but no trace of injury in the globe. On ophthalmoscopic examination, I found nothing but extreme white atrophy of the optic nerve. It is almost certain that the nerve had been wounded, perhaps severed, by the fork.