SUB-PARIETAL CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF VISCERA. 881 beneath the ribs, which was aggravated on the slightest pressure ; the next morning vomiting and pain continued, but he was able to walk to the closet where he passed both urine and feces. On the day following the injury the catheter had to be passed, and a pint and a half of bloody urine was witlidrawn. Some improvement followed on the fourth and fifth days, but on the eighth there was an increased quantity of blood in the urine. From the fourteenth day till his death, clots of blood accumulated in the bladder, and, besides obstructing the how of urine, gave rise to agonizing pain in the hyi)Ogas- trium and at the end of the penis. The pain in the penis was much relieved at times by merely passing a catheter a few indies down the uretlira. A dull swelling formed in the left side of the abdomen ; tympanites and delirium supervened ; and the patient died on the twenty-sixth day. The left kidney was found ruptured across the middle, and the lower segment cracked transversely by very numerous, minute hssures. The left ureter and a branch of the left renal artery, on which was a small, recent aneurism, opened into a large cavity surrounding the broken kidney, and filled with grumous and vilely offensive blood, clot, and urine. Tlie renal vein was not injured. In the peritoneum forming the anterior wall of this cavity, there was a ragged rent in a thin slough, through which offensive, bloody serum was found to exude into the peritoneal sac. No positive evidence of peritonitis existed. Mr. Cock has recorded* a case of rupture of a single kidney in a lad eighteen years old, who fell from a height on to some rafters. Collapse and left-side abdorniiud tenderness ensued; and the next day the pain had increased—being very severe indeed on the left side—and all the ordinary signs of peritonitis had set in. On the introduction of a catheter only a small quantity of blood passed. Within a few days all symptoms of the original injury and of the subsequent peritonitis had subsided, except tliat the catheter, which was regularly required, withdrew nothing but blood. On the subsidence of tympanites a tumor was observed on the left side, and tlie patient died comatose on the eleventh day. The left kidney was completely divided through its pelvis, and the two halves were widely separated by a collection of blood and urine, which had been extra- vasated into the cellular tissue on both sides of the sjiine behind the peritoneum, upwards as high as the diaphragm, and downwards, in connection with the left })soas muscle, to the thigh. One of the smaller branches of the renal artery was open in the cavity. The kidney and ureter were nearly twice the normal size, owing to the rudimental state of the right kidney, and the congenital absence of the upper part of the right ureter, vein, and artery. In tins case there was a large rent in the diaphragm, and the liver and stomach w'ere displaced into the left [deural cavity. Bupture of the Ureter.—There is no occasion to consider tltis ajiart from rupture of tlte kidney, as in the few cases on record the rupture was quite close to the pelvis of that ortgan ; this is only what might he expected, since, excepting near the kidney, the ureter is so placed as to he well nigh secure from all external violence. Moreover, it is neither practieahle nor "necessary to make a distinction between the two sets of cases, either as regards symp- toms or treatment. Polamk has put together six cases of so-called injury of the ureter. Two of them were examples of hullet-wound and not of *suh- ])arietal rupture; and in only one of these, namely, the case of the Arch- Ihshop of Paris,^ in which the rupture was close to the jjelvis of the kidney, was it certain that the ureter alone was injured ; the other case is described by Ilennen as a “complicated wound of the kidnejq” and, as the patient re- covered, it is a gratuitous assumption on Poland’s part to [dace it under wounds of the ureter. In two cas’es which I had the good fortune to follow from beginning to end, namely, Hilton’s, and Poland’s own, the kidney itself was ruptured; Hilton’s ought not to be included at all in Poland’s list, as it was not a case of rvqiture of the ureter, the kidney having been completely divided transversely across the })elvis, like some other cases on recordin Poland’s own case, in addition to the complete rupture of the ureter “just below the pelvis ' Trans. Patli. Soc. Loml., vol. i. p. 293. ® (iaz. des llopitaux, 1848. VOL. V. — .Gf) " Guy’s Hosj). Reports, 3d series, vol. xiv. ■* See Taylor’s Medical J.urisjirudeiice.