254 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. ment in the prognosis, and the urgent necessity of surgical treatment in most cases. Jlist how an iridectomy or sclerotomj’ permanently relieves this fatal pressure, is as little understood now as in the time of Yon Graefe. For accu- racy of description, glaucoma is divided into simple, acute, chronic inflam- matory, secondary, and hemorrhagic. Simple glaucoma is chronic and insidious in its course, with very slow failure of sight, and is not attended by pain or inflammatory indications. For these reasons it generally escapes detection till the sight of one or both eyes is much impaired. The patient has always had an unaccountable difliculty in getting satisfactory glasses, has had to change them often for stronger ones, and at last cannot see much with any. If before, or at this time, he has sought medical advice, he has probably been told that his disease was cataract, and that he could not be operated upon till he was blind ! As glaucoma and cataract often exist together, and are both especially dis- eases of advanced years, this fatal error of diagnosis is all the more easy and common. The senile change of color in the lens to a grayish or amber hue, whether the eye is glaucomatous or not, readily imposes on the careless or incompetent surgeon. In addition to rapid failure of accommodation and trouble with glasses, smokiness of vision, fluctuating but slowly increasing, conies on, and the patient remarks a colored halo around the lamp or candle at night. These vague troubles often persist for years before he seeks competent advice, and is told that he is going hopelessly blind. If vision is already greatly reduced, the pupil will be unduly large, and sluggish in response to light. The ante- rior chamber is shallow, the tension exaggerated, visual acuity diminished, and the fleld of vision contracted, sometimes concentrically, but usually more on the nasal side. Rarely there may be a central scotoma. In this form of glaucoma, the humors are perfectly clear, and a most important ophthalmoscopic symptom is detected. I mean cupping of the optic disk. Idle eye end of the optic nerve yields to the increased internal pressure, and gives rise to this characteristic symptom. The cup or excava- tion involves the entire disk, or nearly so, and looks very different from the small central pit present in all healthy eyes. The edges are abrupt, and the main trunks of the I’etinal vessels seem suddenly cut off, as though cut out with a punch. Those who explain this symptom by a retraction of the optic nerve from previous inflammation in its sheath and texture, of coiu’se attach less importance to the jiressure. As the few large trunks of the retinal ves- sels radiate from the optic-nerve centre, when this surface is pressed back and converted into a pit, tliese vessels Avill he suddenly bent as the}^ dip down into it. The bottom of this pit being out of focus Avhen the edges are in focus, they seem to be cut off. But ivlien the bottom is focused, they are distinctly seen going to its centre, and, by looking obliquely, they may be traced down the abrupt sides. The difference in the glasses required to bring into sharp view the retinal margin of the excavation and the bottom of the cup, is an accu- rate measure of its depth. Another symptom, often present, is visible pulsa- tion of the arterial trunks on the disk. If this is not seen spontaneously, it may he developed by very slight pressure on the ball with the finger. Sivell- ing and falling of the veins, synchronous with the heart’s movements, may often he seen in healthy eyes, but pulsation of the arteries is never seen except in disease. Undoubted hardness of the eye to the finger, cupping of the disk, and pulsation of the retinal arteries, are infallible evidences of glaucoma. Of course, the •history and other symptoms mentioned, must not he forgotten. The lamina cribrosa of the sclera resists more in some than in others, and hence the cup varies in depth even ivith the same pressure.