PENETRATING WOUNDS OE THE ABDOMEN. 923 not us much the original escape of bile which brings about the fatal result, as its continual tiltration into the peritoneal sac; hence the question arises, as Cainpaiguac })ointed out, how far surgery can atford any aid in preventing the further escape of bile in this kind of injury. To this end he advised liga- tion of the ducts, and Ilerlin, removal of the gall-bladder.^ If it happened that the cyst or one of the ducts alone were injured, laparotomy, followed l)y the stitching up of the Avound in the cyst or the ligation of the duct, might he followed by a good result, and Avould be certainly worthy of trial, espe- cially as these injuries are so commonly fatal. But it the liver also Avere Avounded, and some large branch of the bile-ducts Avithin it laid open—or if, as in the case above referred to, several other important Auscera Avere Avounded also—no good could possibly folloAv from such an operation. Penetrating WoanJs of the Ppleen.—The spleen is less liable to penetrating Avounds than the liver, OAving to its smaller size; and Avounds of the liver and stomach, but more especially of the thorax and diaphragm, and left kidney, are comiiionly met Avith as complications. The situation of the spleen exposes it more readily to penetrating Avounds from the side and back; but Avlien injured from the front, some of the viscera in front of it are nearly sure to be implicated. Larrey remarked that left-handed }iersons, in armed encounters, Avere most exposed to Avounds of the spleen, because they presented tlie left side uncovered, and toAvards this the aim of the adversary Avas natu- rally directed. The sgmpto/ns are those indicative of severe internal hemorrhage, Avith great tension and distension of the abdomen. The Idood graAutates toAvards the pelvis, and may be poured out in such quantity as to give a sense ot tiuctuation in the abdomen. If hemorrhage is not A'ery extensive, perito- nitis sets in sooner or later, and [)robably carries otf the patient; or local- ized splenitis and abscess supervene, more especially if foreign matters, such as pieces of dress, have been carried in and remain. In Sir A. Cooper's case of a man stabbed by a diilc, the abdominal cavity Avas tilled Avith tluid blood, and in the case of fatal bayonet Avound recorded by Otis,' the abdominal cavity Avas fidl of clotted blood. Jjiagnosis.—AV'ounds of the spleen present no distinctiA'c sy]iq)toms, and are to be recognized only by the site of the Avound, and by the supervention of faintness, coldness, and {lallor, denoting internal hemorrhage, Avith the absence of those signs Avhich indicate avouikIs of the contiguous viscera. Hunter^ remarked ; “■ A AVOund of the s[>leen Avill produce no symptoms that I knoAv of, excepting probably sickness, from its c(.)iinection Avith the nerves of the stomach.” Aor Avas Itiqiuytren* able to atford any additional light on the subject. Prognosis.—The older surgeons considered Avounds of the spleen and liver, like those of the vena cava, as deadly as Avounds of the heart, “so full of blood Avere they,”® though John Bell Avas perfectly aAvare that patients had recov- ered “Avdiere the liA'cr must have been Avounded more or less.”® But modern instances of successful removal of parts of the spleen in man, and cases such as those recorded by Klebs and Albanese, prepare us for the conclusion that Avounds of the S])leen arc less fatal than avtis formerly supposed. Ilennen says: “ (Jt Avounds of the spleen I have seen a fcAV; some tT the slighter ' M. L’Aiiglas I'npeati'it M. lleiTiu’ti experiments on two ilogs, and extirpated the gall-liladder after tying its neck. Tliese two dogs recovered. 2 Med. and Surg. History, etc., Part Second, Surgical Volume, p. l.AO. Treatise on tlie Blood, Inflammation, and (Tiinsliat W’ounds, p. 54.5. ■' l.econs Orales, t. vi. p. doO. 5 3^ 6 llii.l., p. 3.54.