71 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. ditions, a rapid extension may set in and terminate fatally. The clinical history of these cases of consecutive softening is not clear, and closely resem- bles that of brain-abscesses. Wounds producing loss of substance heal by granulations, which fill up the cavity, adhesion taking place between the resulting granulation-tissue and the cicatrix Avhich closes in the opening through the bone and meninges. Rokitansky shows that, under these circumstances, the lateral A-e.ntricle on the side of injury enlarges, to partially supply the place left by the loss of cerebral tissue. At a later period, the brain tends to sink imvard, and by this process of stretching of the cicatrix, a loose connective tissue, with its interstices filled with a serous fluid, comes to lie between the brain and the superficial scar, where the two structures were formerly firmly bound together. Prognosis.—This is dependent upon the portion of the encephalon Avounded, and upon the concomitant injuries. With a limited lesion, and one not com- promising the integrity of the involved brain-tissue, recoveiw is possible, and indeed under judicious treatment has often taken place readily. Recovery is also compatible Avith destruction by bruising and tearing of large portions of the brain-substance, although the danger is usually proportionate to the extent of tissue involved. Lai’ge portions of brain may be lost, and yet, pro- vided that neither the motor area nor that of speech be involved, no appa- rent loss of intellectual pOAver nor disorder of motility may be detected. The preceding remarks are chietly applicable to injuries of the superior and lateral surfaces of the hemispheres, for if Avounds involve the l)ase of the brain, or the medulla oblongata, the respiratory centre may beiiiAmlved, Avhen instant death from cessation of breathing Avill occur. Even Avhen those cen- tres which are immediately necessary to life are not at first involved, they generally become atfected sooner or later, either by contiguity of structure or from pressure of inflammatory products, Avhen death folloAVs. Should recovery take place after basal injuries, it usually does so Avith marked impairment of the mind, and varied }»alsies of motility and sensa- tion. The special senses also are apt to be lost or iin[»aired. jSAthing like certainty in prognosis is possible, as the most frightful injuries may be recovered from, Avhile the most trivial may result in death. In the Avords of Percival Pott, however, “no injury is too great to be despaired of.” The chief dangers to be a})}irehended are encephalitis and hernia cerebri. Sgmptoins.—These are so dejicndent upon the portions of brain iiiA-’oR^ed, that it Avould be useless to attempt to detail them. Wounds of the meninges are ahvays grave, indeed often as fatal as wounds of the brain itself. Suppuration and sloughing of the dura mater generally folloAV contused Avounds, Avith a conserpient, diftused, intracranial inflamma- tion, and in very many cases hernia cerebri results. These evil consequences are peculiarly a})t to folloAV from the irritation caused Ity depressed splinters of the inner table, Avhence arises the practical precept to remove these by ope- ration, Avhen such untOAvard results may oftentimes be avoided.' A portion of dura mater Avhich might have ]-ecovered its vitality if tlie pressure and irrita- tion of bony fragments had been removed, is too often “ left to nature” as it is said, and Avith fatal consequences. Extensive incised Avounds of the meninges, removing considerable portions, as in sabre Avounds Avhere large segments of the cranium haA'e been sliced off, not infrequently end in recovery, as iii cases reported by Hennen,^ Larrey,'' and others. ' See section on Hernia Cerebri for the influence exerted by bony spicules in causing tliis affection. 2 Hennen, op. cit., p. 2J1. 3 Larrey, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 281.