462 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS application of a stimulating ointment made by the mixture of 3j or 3ij of oil of turpentine, or of reruvian balsam, with 5} of vaseline. The healing pro- cess may be attended by cicatricial contraction, requiring the same treatment as that which is demanded when contraction attends the healing of a burn or other severe injury. Facial Erysipelas. The integument of the face is peculiarly liable to erj^sipelatous inflamma- tion. This may occur as a consequence of local injury, or it may be the result of constitutional causes. It may occur sporadically, or it may be endemic, as in the wards of a hospital. It is especially apt to occur where cleanliness and ventilation are neglected. It is apt to be communicated by foul sponges and other similar appliances. It may be simple or phlegmonous in its character. Its general course is the same as that of erysipelas in other parts of the body, but the prognosis is more unfavorable, as the inflammation is very apt to involve the brain and its membranes. The treatment should be prompt and active, to arrest the disease as early as possible. Laxatives and diaphoretics may be administered at the very beginning of the disease, fol- lowed by tonics, such as the sulphate of quinia, or the tincture of the sesqui- chloride of iron. As local applications, blisters may be applied to the sur- face, or the inflamed parts may be painted with tincture of iodine, or covered with cloths moistened with a solution of sulphate of iron, 5ij to Oj ; or hypo- dermic injections may be made of a 2^ per-cent, solution of carbolic acid. Malformations and Deformities of tub Cheeks and Lips. Macrostoma.—This term is used to indicate a condition in which the opening between the lips is abnormally large, so as to constitute a marked deformity. The commissures of the lips may be extended outward and backward into the cheeks, on one or both sides, in a horizontal line, or obliquely upward or downward. The deformity may be congenital, or it may be the result of a wound imperfectly healed. It may be successfully treated by paring the edges of the fissure, and uniting them by sutures. In this way, the mouth may usually be restored to its normal size and shape. ]\IiCROSTOMA.—This name indicates a deformed condition in which the labial oriflce is abnormally small. It may be congenital, or it may be the result of cicatricial contraction, following a burn, sloughing, or phagedenic ulceration. In some eases, the opening of the lips is so much contracted as to interfere with the introduction of food into the mouth. The opening maybe enlarged by making a horizontal incision on each side into the cheek, and by attach- ing the mucous membrane to the skin by a number of fine sutures. When the tissues are very much consolidated by cicatricial contraction, there will be difficulty in maintaining the opening, and it will be necessary to stretch the [larts mechanically, and to maintain the dilatation for a long period. This dilatation may be effected by metallic arcs introduced into the angles of the mouth, after free incisions have been made, and drawn asunder by elastic bands passing around the back of the neck. Atresia Oris.—This is described by authors as a congenital defect, in which the anterior buccal oriflce is entirely wanting. If such a malforma- tion should be met with, it would be necessary to make a horizontal incision