309 EPISTAXIS. ' Archiv fiir Ohrenlieilk., Bd. ii. S. 181. ® Med. Minor, Feb. 1, 1870. orio-in. If the hemorrhage be profuse, or if it occur during sleep, while the })atient is in the recumbent position, the blood may pass either_ into the (esophagus, and be swallowed, or into the larynx and trachea. In either case, its subse(|uent removal can only be acco'midished cither by vomiting or by coughing, and an attack of htematemesis or of hfemoptysis may thus be closely sinmlated. Kb] )pe' relates the histoiy of a case in which Ideeding originated in the transverse sinus, and, there being disease of the cavity of the tympanum, the blood was discharged simultaneously tlirough the nose and the external auditory canal. In those rare cases where it oilginates in either the frontal sinus, the antrum, or the ethmoidal or sphenoidal cells, the diagnosis as to exact local- ity is extremely difficult. Care is also required when the Iiemorrliage is pro- fuse, and rapidly tills not only theatfected nostril but the pharyngeal space as well. In this case blood appears at the opposite nostril, giving rise to the suspicion tiiat its source is double, and at the mouth also. Finally, hemor- rhage trom the posterior parts of the nosp is not only more difficult to locate, Init its symptoms are more liable to l>e confounded with those of otlier condi- tions than when it arises from tlie anterior portion. In any of these very exceptional instances, careful observation and the history ot the case will generally serve to render the diagnosis clear. Prognosis.—This depends entirely upon the amount of blood lost before the patient is seen, the efficacy and promptness of treatment, and the natui-e, in certain instances, of the cause which gives rise to the epistaxis. In the great majority of cases, as lias been stated, the accident is of a trivial nature, and tlie means available for its arrest being effiectual, no danger is to be apprehended if they are ])romptly employed. Where, however, the epistaxis is symptoma- tic of some disease of grave significance, the prognosis will be dependent upon the nature of the latter, rather than upon that of its complication alone. Treatment.—The direet treatment of ejiistaxis simply resolves itself into the selection and proper application, to the bleeding surfaces, of some one of a long list of eitlier mechanical or medicinal means for the purpose of causing coagulation of the blood, which then, in the majority of instances, serves as a tampon in the nasal cavity, and leads to occlusion of the bleeding vessels. Unless the hemorrhage be excessive, the simpler means may 1)C first em- ployed, not forgetting here, as in all instances, to i-eassure the patient, tran- quillize his surroundings, and cause him to Itreathe quietly through the mouth, and to abstain from all efforts at blowing the nose. Ilis position .should be erect, with the head inclined forwards. The ala of the affected nostril may now be pressed strongly against the septum, and pressure kept up for a few moments, or the finger may be introduced into tlie nostril as far as possilile, to act as a tamjH)n. (Amlsalva, Morgagni.) During citlicr of these procedures, the arm corresponding to the bleeding side may lie raised above the liead (iN^egrier), and etforts made to excite sjiasm of the nasal bloodvessels through reflex action, by applying cold, in the form of ice, to the liack of the neck, or even to the scrotum, in men, and to the breasts in rvomen. The use of ice or other cold apjilieations to the exterior of the nose, or to the fore- head, and injections, or the pouring of cold water into the nose, are some- times useful in the lighter cases, by exciting reflex spasm of the liloodvessels; but all injections have the common disadvantage, that they wash away the clots as fast as they are formed. I have in several instances used injections of hot water with good effect. Chapmaid recommends the water-liag lietweeu the shoulders, the water being at a temperature of 115° F., on the principle of a derivative. Finally, iVlariid states that, as the blood in epistaxis gene- ® Ij’Uiiioii M6dicale, 25 Mai, 1872.