210 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. globe, dating back many years, ossification of tbe choroid, or calcareous degeneration of the lens, may at length give rise to pain, tenderness, and sympathetic danger. The shrunken stump then becomes hard and painful to the touch, especially posteriorly. I recently removed such an eye from a gentleman, fifty years old. It had been put out by a pen-knife in boyhood, and never gave the least discomfort till within the past two years. It then grew painful and tender to the touch, and gave rise not only to sympathetic irritation in the sound eye, but at times to excruciating attacks of facial neuralgia, and to falling fits of unconsciousness. All these symptoms disappeared when the eye was enucleated. An e}^e, whether plump or shrunken, that contains a foreign body, is always liable to become troublesome and dangerous to its fellow. How long after the injury does it recpiire for sympathetic ophthalmia to be set up ? I have known it to be developed in three weeks. Mauthner never saw it occur sooner thah four weeks. The interval may vary fi»oni three weeks, which seems to be the shortest time, to months, and even to forty or fifty years, as in the case above cited. The reported cases of neuro-retinitis and other forms of symjiathetic ophthalmia, coming on in a few days after enu- cleation, were not caused, as alleged, by the enucleation. The diseased pro- cess was on its way around, before the operation, and would probably have broken out at the same time, had nothing been done. It is hard for me to believe that the contusion of the optic and ciliary nerves by the scissors, in enucleation, could produce sympathetic disease. At least, I have had the good fortune to be spared seeing such cases. That traction on, or constriction of, the optic nerve, after enucleation, may excite to sympathetic irritation, was, however, demonstrated by a case of my own:— I bad enucleated the painful eye some months before. The patient returned, complaining of harassing photopsia, glimmering, and tenderness to light, so that he could not apply the sight of the eye. All these symptoms were at once relieved by a little leather pad, pressed firmly back into the hollow socket by a bandage, which he had worn for weeks. By an operation, in which a piece of the nerve stump was de- tached and removed, all trouble ceased. Such cases have been reported by others. That similar disturbances might result from cicatricial compression of the ciliary trunks, I can believe. Under all the circumstances, where sympa- thetic inflammation of the good eye has been observed, and with the premo- nitions of sympathetic irritation, eternal vigilance is the price of sight. By far the most frecpient form of sympathetic inflammation, is irido-cyclitis, extending in the worst cases to the choroid. Beginning usually with the symptoms of an ordinary acute or subacute iritis, but resisting all treatment, and leading to firm agglutination of the entire iris to the capsule of the lens, it resnlts at last in hopeless disorganization. Cyclitis, Avith tenderness to pi’essure, softening of tbe globe, and sIoav but fatal extinction of vision, follow in the train. Sometimes encouraging remissions Avill be seen, but soon the turn comes and all is lost. In the simj)le form of serous iritis, sometimes seen, enucleation is not necessaiy, as the disease may be controlled Avithout. In* the plastic and malignant variety, most often Avitnessed, enucleation does no good, and may often do harm. But in other forms of sympathetic manifestation, especially those showing neuro-retinitis, it Avould seem as though enucleation exercised a favorable influence. Watchful anticipation and prompt surgical interference, before or as soon as the ominous sympathetic irritation has set in, is the oidy sure and safe treatment. Whenever a hopelessly blind e}'e is, and perhaps bas long been, comfortable, Avith no local tenderness to pressure, and Avhen the