979 FALSE ANUS. •maiority of persons its edges are thick, depressed, adherent to the subjacent parts, inclined towards the abdominal cavity, and immediately continuous with the mucous membrane of the bowel. A reddish circle denotes the place of their junction. Tlie neio-hboring integuments have radiating furrows in them, en cul-de-poule, analogous to wliat is observed near cicatrices in general; and notwithstanding the most minute attention to cleanliness, the matter evacuated irritates the skin, bringing on an erysi- pelatous redness, or excoriations of variable depth. The distance between the outer opening and the lower edge of the intes- tinal aperture, varies with the cause of the affection and the thickness of the abdominal walls. It is usually from one-third to one inch, but it may be two, or even three inches. The two ends of the bowel are sealed by plastic lymph to the parietal peritoneum around the outer orifice, and thus the peritoneal cavity is safely shut off. The extent of these adhesions varies, hut they are not often more than from one-twelfth to one-rpiarter of an inch wide. If they be feeble, the intestine may be puslied, torn, or dragged away, and completely separated from the parietes, and the patient will then die of fecal extravasation into tlie peritoneal cavity; hut in old cases the adhesioiis are apt to yield gradually to the constant dragging action of the mesentery, with- out any ill effect resulting, and the gut becomes, perhaps, as Dupuytren proved it might, completely restored to its free and floating condition. AVhen the false amis results from disease, the formation of this barrier of adhesions precedes the sloughing of the bowel; when due to injury, the harrier lias to be thrown up around the wounded part, and until this has lieen conpiletcd, there is danger of effusion into the peritoneum. The adhesions never extend far along the extremities of the bowel, wliich, being merely contiguous, leave between them a cul-de-sac^ into which, in some instances, the viscera jiress so as to give rise to a hernial protrusion, which pushes forwards and otherwise complicates the false anus. The two ends of the spoiled bowel, which are thus attached to the deep margin of the external opening, vary in their relation to one another. Some- times, if the lesion of the wall of the bowel is not extensive, they are very ohlipuely placed, and then there is a good prospect of the intestinal contents passing from the upper to the lower portion, and so reaching the anus, and favoring the spontaneous closure of tlie abnormal opening; sometimes they are cpiite parallel, or, in the stereoty[)ed phrase, side by side like the tubes of a double-barrelled gun. As Dupuytren observes, the two terminating [lortions of the bowel pass into the abdomen, sometimes crossing, sometimes coiling over one another ; in other instances running parallel, but most frequently diverg- ing at a more or less acute angle. Lastly, they terminate in bending more and more to become lost in the convolutions of the intestinal canal. Each end of the gut o[)ens by a distinct orifice, separated liy a s]iur or septum more or less pronounced, to which Dupuytren gave the name of “ f/xroyg” and Scarpa that of “ the promontory.” This spur consists of the mesenteric side of the bowel, if it has been spared ; and if not, of the contiguous and now united mesenteric sides of the two ends of the bowel. In the latter case, the eperon forms a complete barrier between the ipiper and lower orifices, and intestinal matter cannot pass from one to the other except by describing a kind of semicircular course outside them, and in the infundibulum of Scarpa, to be presently mentioned. The eperon^ after a time, does not divide the orifices equally, but is }»ropelled towards the lower }>art of the bowel by the pressure of the matter passing constantly through the upper orifice; thus the upper opening increases in size as time goes on, and the lower one con- tracts until by degrees it becomes so shut <^ff that it is only detected with ditliculty. The two ends of the bowel undei'go other important changes in