94 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. in any given case a more difficult matter. The following propositions, which, of course, are only approximately true, may aid in the solution of this difficulty. 1. When death occurs from intracranial inflammation, the disease must, if due to the operation, have first started in the hone and dura mater, whence it has spread to the arachnoid, pia mater, and cortical substance of the brain, but veiy rarely to the white matter. 2. If the intracranial inflammation has its starting point in the brain, both the cortical and medullary portions will probably be involved, and thence the diseased process will extend outwards to the pia mater, arachnoid, etc. In addition, when of traumatic origin, the cerebral substance will probably pre- sent either signs of recent contusion or laceration, or traces of such injuries if the ease be of some standing. 3. If then, in a given case, laceration or contusion of the brain, and inflam- matory involvement of both tlie medullary and cortical portions of the cere- brum—the inflammation not involving more than the arachnoid membrane— coexist with a healthy condition of the dura mater around the trephine-hole, death certaiidy has not been liastened by tlie operation. 4. When intracranial inflammation lias existed prior to operation, the opera- tion cannot be justly charged with the fatal result. 5. When the time of onset of intracranial inflammation has been doubtful— that is, when it is uncertain whether it preceded or followed the operation— aii}^ opinion as to the eflect of the latter upon the result of the case must be purely conjectural. General surgical principles, however, would suggest that inflammation would be more apt to result from contusion of the diploe, with a ragged, shattered state of the bone—which condition necessarily in- volves defective drainage—than from a clean trepliine-cut, with its facilities for ready escape of the wound-fluids. 6. Great caution should be exercised in drawing conclusions in these cases, since the most severe injuries are sometimes recovered from without compli- cations, while the slightest in ap})earance have at times proved fatal. From want of knowledge of the actual death-rate of uncomplicated tre- phining, together with failure to recognize the facts embodied in some of the propositions just stated, and from the unreliable character of the statistics which have been published, as shown by Mr. Walsham, prominent surgeons difler as to the advisability of trephining. Those who are impressed with statistics gathered from any and every source, and unaccompanied by details to show whether operation or concomitant injury has been the cause of death, reprobate the operation; while those who have carefully investigated the matter are gradually reviving the procedure, so that there is reason to hoj^e that it will soon be established on a surer foundation than ever before. I would premise, before giving the results of Mr. Walsham’s and my own carefully compiled statistics, that many of the operations included were performed at a time when all operations exhibited a higher rate of mortality than at present. Thus, out of 748 cases there died 276, a percentage of 36.9 per cent.^ My own experience has taught me that trephining se is not a dangerous operation, and that more patients commoidy die from complications which might have been prevented by a timely operation, than from the removal of a disk of healthy bone. "When should the trephine be used ? As early as possible, in order to an- ticipate the secondary inflammatory affections which result from the initation caused by fragments of bone, and from the impossibility of iiTitating fluids ' Amidon’s statistics and estimate of the dangers of trephining (Med. Record, June 14, 1884), are, I am convinced, too low, the result of omitting unfavorable cases which legitimately should have been included.