228 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. Illation. Irregular bulging of tlie cornea in chronic keratitis, and softening and yielding of limited, infiltrated or ulcerated portions in the acute forms of the disease, are by no means unconimon. Keratitis may be primary or secondary. The first class embraces all forms beginning in and spending their main force upon the cornea. The second includes all cases in •which the cor- nea becomes involved, as a complication, in the course of some other disease of the eye. Primary keratitis may result from purely local causes, or may be due to a dyscrasia, such as scrofula or sj^philis. The etiology of this afteetion is often difficult of discovery, and sometimes only conjectural. Even when traceable to a constitutional affection, it is not easy to explain why it occurs in some cases and not in others, or in one eye and not in both. There are local determining causes that are, as yet, inscru- table. Even in traumatic keratitis, iiieluding that from chemical action, the seriousness of the reaction varies very greatly in different cases, without our being able in all instances to ascertain the reason. Excepting traumatic cases, and those in strumous and syphilitic subjects, primary keratitis is of rare occurrence. The most frequent exciting causes of keratitis are atmos- pheric changes and impurities. Secondary keratitis is of very frequent occurrence, in the course of acute conjunctivitis. In jmrulent conjunctivitis, keratitis, Avith its consequences, is the great and only danger. In the simple form of inflammation of the conjunctiva, the iiiAmsion of the cornea begins at the margin. At first there is perhaps simple abrasion of the epithelium, and superficial ulceration close to and parallel AAdth the margin, assuming a crescentic shape. This may go deeper and lead to marginal perforation, but generall}^ the paid undergoes A^ascularization, and then gets Avell. In puru- lent conjunctivitis the cornea is ajit to be in\"aded in its centre, Avhere its nutri- tion is most precarious. The attack may begin in the form of a limited abscess, followed by open ulceration, or by direct ulcerative invasion. In either case it is likely to lead to perforation, and to A^ery serious damage to vision. There is a form of inflammation of the cornea, peculiarly destructive in its tendenc}’, frequently of traumatic but often of spontaneous origin, that is usually called hypopimn keratitis. It might perhaps be better designated as infectious. It is nearly always seen in adults; often in stone masons, from contusions by fine pieces of stone; or in harvesters, from injuries by wheat beards. In these cases the injury seems slight and insignificant at first, and the severe reaction does not set in for two or three days. Those laboring under suppurative inflammation of the tear sac, are peculiarly liable to this trouble from slight Avounds or abrasions of the cornea, or Avithout any injury. The same source of local infection makes the extraction of cataract, in such persons, almost certainly destructive to the eye. This disease is charac- terized by rapid and limited infiltration, abscess, and ulceration, AAdiich is apt to spread both laterally and in depth, and Avhich may lead to speedy perfo- ration. A large portion or even the entire cornea may be thus destroyed in a feAV days. Very soon after the appearance of abscess and ulceration, an accumulation of pus is seen in the bottom of the anterior chamber, Avhich increases, and may fill the entire chamber in a feAv days. The suffering is usually intense until perforation occurs, Avhen it is apt to abate. In rare cases there is little pain or none at all. This disease alAAvays leads to perma- nent cicatricial opacity of the cornea and serious injury to sight, and in many cases to hopeless loss of vision. Its etiology, diagnostic symptoms, and treat- ment, are all someAvdiat peculiar. Another variety, traceable often to hereditary syphilis, is called parenchy- matous keratitis. It is seen nearly ahvays in young persons of dwarfed appearance, and Avith the peculiar defect in the front teeth described by