863 CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS, CARBUNCLE, FURUNCLE, ETC. one or the otlier rmist be adopted, since the inflammation is prone to spread, and the bleeding to recur, and since either condition may end in death in the coarse of a few days. I have also known ulceration to arise from a simple pim'ple. This occurred in the person of a stoutly built and apparently healthy woman aged 48, who for some time had had a small, hard pinpde situated about two inches above Foupart’s ligament; it at length became red and irritable, and in tlie course of six days enlarged to the size of a walnut; within another four or five days it was a lai'ge, ovoid ulcer, 12 inches by 7, with thickened edges, and a profuse, otlensive, purulent discharge from its base. During cicatrization a great deal of superficial pain was felt, extending from the back to the groin, which was relieved by the application of belladonna ointment to the edges of the ulcer. Tlie healing was very slow, and took nearly four months for its completion, the patient nearly the whole time, after being first seen, keeping her couch. The origin of the ulcer appeared to be rpiite local, and due to the chafing and neglect of a simple pustule; there was no sj-philitic taint, and there were no enlarged glands, nor sores in other parts of the body. Iodide of potas- sium and mercury had no effect upon the ulcer, which however healed under the application of vaseline, and then carl)olic-oil dressing (1 in 40), and the internal administration of rpiinine and iron. It is possible that an ulcer such as the above may liave a venereal origin without being of a syphilitic nature. If an inflamed follicle or an abraded pimple, in the hypogastric or iliac region, or elsewhere, is inoculated by the discharge derived from an impure connection, it is very likely to assume a spreading, chancroidal character. I have witnessed an ulcer of this kind, above the pubes of a man, gradually eat its way into a circular sore the size (»f the palm of tlie hand, with raised edges and an irregular, ashy-gray base. It was cured in the course of a few weeks by the local application of black- wash, the use of opium in small and frerpiently repeated doses, and complete rest in bed. A soft chancre or an open Imho may take on a phagedenic action, and spread widely over the lower part of the abdomen, as ^vell as over the but- tocks, along the thighs and up the vagina,, being accomiianied by fierce and terrible pain. Owing to the looseness of the tissues about the groin and lower parts of the alidomen, they easily become infiltrated with the acrid fluids from tlie sore, and sloughing goes on in them very rajiidly unless checked by active treatment. Idiese ulcers, though of venereal origin, never occur as the result of syphilis. As a rule, tliey affect young, weakly, de- bauched and half-starved men and women—more especially women. Happily they are now rarely met with, at any rate in London hospitals ; hut I have seen one or two horrible examples of this kind of ulcer, where the muscles of the abdominal walls, and of the gluteal region and inner side of the thigh, had been cleanly dissected out b}^ the phagedenic process, and, together with the hectic and emaciated face aiul wasted limbs of the terror-stricken and suffering patient, formed a sickening sight never to 1)C forgotten. The treat)iient of this kind of ulcer consists, in the early stage, in the ap- idication of strong nitric acid or the acid nitrate of mercuiy, once or twice repeated if necessary ; this has in some cases converted the phagedenic sore into a healthy one, and at the same time has given (piick relief from pain. If the case is not seen early, oj)inm and tonics internally,'with a good, nutri- tious diet, a moderate allowance of stimulants, the local application of opium, with horacic or carbolic acid lotion, and scrupulous cleanliness, must be trusted to. The prognosis Is however gloomy.