9G0 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. tlie formation of the fistula, by giving exit to calculi, may give permanent immunity from similar periodic attacks of hepatic colic and jaundice, which have occurred during a course of many j'Cars.* ’When the cause of a fistula is a wound, there will be the attending symptoms excited hj’ the injury; when the cause is disease, there will be those attributable to it. Prognosis.—The duration of biliary fistulse varies. In many of the cases of recovery after stabs or gunshot wounds, there has been a temporary fistula for from several days to several weeks, and then perfect closure has occurred.^ In other cases the patients have lived for several years in more or less impaired health, with purulent and bilious matter constantly discharging from the fistula. AVheu the cause of the fistula is gall-stone, it usually soon closes after all the calculi have come away, but it has been known to keep discharging for many months. 'When the calculi are numei’ous, and the fistula long and tortuous, the opening has continued for yeai’s—in some instances showing every now and then a tendency to close, but again and again opening to allow the escape of other calculi. The fistulous openings are chiefly serious on account of the inconvenience they occasion. In a large proportion, when due to disease, the patients live for years in fair health; and in many instances the fistula closes altogether. Complete healing may be looked for in cases of gall-stone, if the calculus is single, if the opening is directly over the gall-bladder, if the discharge is free from idle, and if there is no jaundice. The most unfavorable cases are those in which the fistula is due to cancer, or to abscess in the parenchyma of the liver. Those cases in which the cystic duct is patent and the common duct obstructed, must result in a permanent discharge of bile, and marasmus sooner or later must ensue. Treatment.—Xo general rule can be laid down for the management of these cases, except that which is common to all external fistulre, namely, to keep the opening and the structures around it scrupulously clean and free from irrita- tion. I3ut little can be expected from operative attempts to close the fistula, though if the common bile-duct be patent, and the patient much debilitated by the continual loss of bile, the question of making the effort may properlj' he considered ; but if, owing to obstruction of the common bile-duct, the bile cannot enter the bowel, there is no chance of success, and every reason for not undertaking the operation. If a calculus plug the fistula and lead to abscess, or to the accumulation of discharge; or if a calculus can be felt lodged near the orifice, it will be necessary to open up the fistula and extract, or at least facilitate the escape of, the calculus. This operation has often been successful, but it should be done with care, because there are several cases which prove that even the introduction of a probe or dressing forceijs may induce fatal peritonitis. In some cases it will be right to lay open the gall-bladder and remove its contents; and there are grounds for thinking tliat a permanent fistula may in some eases be prevented, and in others cured, by the operation of cholecystotomy. W^hen there remain behind one or more biliary calculi, the fistula should be kept open with the hope that they will escape through it at some future day. Internal Biliary Fistulte.—Besides the external fistulre, a variety of fistulous communications occur between-the biliary passages and adjacent organs—such as the stomach, duodenum/ and colon, by a process of ulcera- 1 Lancet, March 11, 1882, p. 391. * Guthrie’s Commentaries, etc., Gth ed., pp. 582-584. 1855. 8 Murchison has collected twenty-eight such cases, and in the majority of them death was caused by obstruction of the small intestine by a large biliary calculus, though in several a large calculus was passed per anum after the symptoms of obstruction had existed.