INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1076 Dating calculi, of uric acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates, in distinct layers, are not uncommon. It is said that in Eg}’pt the eggs of the Distoma hmmatobmm afford a nucleus for the formation of renal stones. Blood-calculi have been described, and a drop of dried blood is occasionally found as the nucleus of a mixed calculus. l)r. Scott Allison recorded a case of phthisis in which, after death, several black concretions varying in size from a cori- ander-seed to a horse-bean, and composed of blood of firm consistence, Avere found in the kidney. I have seen such concretions in the pelvis of a kidney in Avhich a uric-acid and phosphatic calculus also existed. Kenal calculi are formed at all periods of life, from the latter Aveeks of intra-uterine existence up to quite old age. One or both kidneys may be atfected at the same time, or one may become so subsequently to the other. One or many calculi may be formed in the same kidney, so that even scores have been found scattered through the organ. When the calculus is com- posed of oxalate of lime, it is generally single; Avhen of uric acid it is often single, but it is far less likely to be so than Avhen of oxalate of lime. In size ami shape there is the greatest possible variety, from a small, round, smooth body, to a large, I’ough, and branched mass filling all the pelvis and calyces. Much depends upon the size of the stone, and also on its position in the kidney, as to the amount of damage Avrought by its presence upon the renal structure. A stone as large as a marble, rough and sharply mam- millated upon its surface, may remain confined to one of the calyces for years AAuthout giving rise to more change than induration of the Avhole organ, due to slight chronic interstitial infiammation. On the other hand, quite a minute stone, not much if any larger than a mustard-seed or grape-seed, Avhilst in the tubular structure of the kidney Avill excite congestion, and even acute infiammation and abscess. Wlien a stone is of such large size that it fills the renal pelvis, or Avhen, being much smaller, it falls like a ball-valve into the upper end of the ureter, it leads to chronic inflammation, to dilatation, and to those atrophic changes Avhich accompany hydronephrosis and pyo- nephrosis ; or nephritis, pyelo-nephritis, abscess in the perinephric tissues, or profuse suppuration Avithin the kidney, may be the result. Symptoms.—A small stone may develop, travel, and escape, Avithout giving rise to any symptom. A stone of modei’ate or even of large size may exist for years Avithout causing any noticeable symptoms; and, liaving been uncom- plained of during life, may be met Avith as a surprise Avhen the body is examined after death. As a rule, no doubt there is, at some time, blood or albumen mixed Avith the urine; some lundjar pain or aching, aggraA’ated by exercise or by any jarring or jolting movement; some vesical irritability ; perhaps some pain in the testicle of the same side. If the stone has existed a long Avhile, pus, mucus, or albumen will lie found daily in a minute, or moderate, or marked quantity in the urine; and if blood is not invariably present (and in many cases it is not), it sometimes occurs in large amount, making the Avater bright red, or portei’-like in color, for seA'eral days together. If Avith these symptoms the patient from time to time passes graA'el, or minute calculi, or fragments of calculous matter, the diagnosis becomes conclusive. Movements, sucii as those caused by carriage-exercise, running, or Avalking, are not in all cases needed to cause exacerbation of the lumbar pain; on merely turning in lied, or even Avhen lying asleep, the patient may be aroused b}^ a sudden agonizing seizure. It Avould thus seem that the varying pressure of the abdominal viscera, the passage of feces along the colon, the variations in the deo-ree of intra-renal blood pressure, are all capable of exciting pain by making the, often, acicular surface of the calculus press against the renal tissue. As soon as a stone enters the ureter, or is being propelled along it, stretch- ing it as it goes—partly by the Aveight of the accumulating urine behind, partly