HERNIA. 1118 from the presence of air in the contained intestine, we have an important verifying’ evidence. Itnt this corroboration will not be found in hernia’' containing omentum only, or any other of tlie solid viscera, and so cannot help to distinguish tliein from an enlarged gland or a tumor. So that in many cases the concurrence of signs, aided by the method known as diagnosis by exclusion, will he the only safe guides to an operative procedure, and some cases can only be made certain by careful explorative dissection. In hernia containing intes- tine, the occasional occurrence of the croaking, gurgling, or scpieaky sounds of air mixed with fluid (technicallj’ known as horboryijmiis)^ especially heard and even felt when pressing hack the contents, will make clear the diagnosis. Again, interference with the known functions of any viscus which is impli- cated, such as flatulence, nausea, or constipation of the bowels, and signs of irritation of the bladder or ovaries, or absence of the testicle from the scrotum, may throw light upon the ease. In the formation of a rupture, pain is usnall}’, but not always, felt—a sud- den and violent pain when fibres give way or strangulation is threatened, a dull, aching, intermittent, and recurring pain, or soreness, when the distension of a natural canal is occurring. When the bowel is fairly engaged in the hernial opening, to these are added a dragging pain felt in the lumbar region, or about tlie umbilicus, flatulent eructations, uneasiness after eating, constipa- tion, and even nausea and vomiting, from traction on the stomach. These syrni)toms, in ordinary cases, gradually disappear on the patient lying down, but increase in intensity if the case goes on to complete strangulation. In some slow cases, no pain whatever is felt in the part during the formation of the hernia, and the attention of the patient is first attracted to it by tlie appearance of a tumor. In most cases, the commencement of the rupture is due to a portion of omentum being first forced through the deep ring, ami gradually preparing the way for the entrance of the bowel; and in some cases, a small tubular formation of tlie peritoneum (the persistent remains of the canal of Unck) favors the entrance of the omentum. Such cases are usually unattended with pain, or have but little, in their formation. In other instances, tlie small intes- tine may be the first to force open the deep ring, producing a good deal of aching and acute dragging pain in the groin, and symptoms referable to irri- tation and irregular contraction of the intestines, such as flatulence and alter- nating diarrhoea and constipation. The increase of an epiplocAe is slower and more gradual than that of an entcroQele. This variety is less commonly observed in femoral than in ingui- nal, umbilical, or ventral hernia. It is less easy to detect and to ditferentiate from other tumors, is doughy and inelastic to tlie touch, and dull on percus- sion, while enterocele is elastic and resonant; the cough-impulse is less marked and evident, and its reduction is effected more slowly, and without gurgling or borboiygmus, such as we usually have in enterocele. ISIost cases have, however, mixed contents of both omentum and bowel, and sometimes in the lower part of the sac the hernia has the characteristics of an epiplocele, and in the upper part those of an enterocele. The protrusion of a hernia is brought about by violent eflbrts of expiration by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, pressing outwards the contents of the abdominal cavity. The investing structures give Avay at their weakest part, wherever that may be at the moment. The protrusion is often favored by tlie position of the liody at the time of the supreme effort. If the thighs are bent on the trunk, the tendinous structiu’es in the groin are relaxed, and the muscular fibres wliich are attached to them operate at a disadvantage, and leave unsupported the openings which they should cover and protect. The