NEUROSES OF THE NASAL PASSAGES. 437 to be the cause by Rosenmuller and Pressat. Cases of anosmia which accom- pany aphasia and dextral hemiplegia, and are always limited to the left nasal cavity, are to- be credited to Jackson, Fletcher, Ransome, Ogle, and Erb. The latter holds that the loss of smell occurring so frequently with hysteiua is of central origin, and associated, as a rule, with loss of taste and with cuta- neous and muscular amesthesia. The anosmia of the insane may likewise be attributed to central lesion. Treatment., as a rule, is not encouraging in its results. If the cause of the anosmia be central, its cure is probably hopeless; while if it be dependent upon mere mechanical obstruction to the entrance of the odoriferous particles to the olfactory region, it can be relieved, in the majority of instances, hy removal of the impediment, by the means alluded to when treating of the various conditions of the nasal passages which give rise to occlusion or obstruction. Treatment must, then, in many instances at least, be limited to that of the }>rimary disease, and to the removal of ascertained and present causes. Direct treatment of the affected parts, viz., the u[)per portions of the Schneiderian membrane, should always, however, be undertaken in the hope of success, imd electric excitation by means of the interrupted gal- vanic current is indicated if treatment of the jirimary cause is not followed by restoration of the sense. Coheid has found that, under certain circum- stances, the only way in which he could arouse the sensation of smell was by using the covere<l negative electrode in the nasal passage, and the positi\-e electrode over the course of the sympathetic nerve behind the angle of the jaw. Moller^ applies strychnia with a brush to the nasal mucous membrane with good results. ^lotta gained only negative results with irritating snuffs, but calls attention to an important fact that should be remembered, viz., that many chronic cases recover even without any treatment. IIyper.estiiesia.—Abnormal acuteness of smell may exist to sucli a degree as to cause intense annoyance and even distress to its unfortunate possessor. Xurnerous well-authenticated and curious examples are upon record, as, for instance, that of Anne of Austria, who fainted upon inhaling the odor of roses. Put, on the other hand, many absurd claims are based upon the allegetl acuteness of the sense; thus, it lias been claimed that smell alone is adequate to the recognition of syphilis; that the difference between pneu- monia and bronchitis may be detected by the nose alone; and even that recent participants in coitus may be distinguished by their peculiar odctr.^ Other facts in relation to increased develo})ment of this special sense are of more diagnostic and practical value. Hysterical patients not infre<[uently can distinguish the most minute traces of odorous substances; subjective sensations of smell occur both in epileptics,'* when they usher in the seizure, and in insane patients ;® nervous disorders of various kimls, as well as the most various forms of cerebral disease,® are occasionally complicated by de- rangements of olfaction; and tumors, softening, and degenei’ation of tbe olfactory nerve, are associated with like phenomena, which disa[)pear with the complete destruction of the nerve and the establishment of anosmia. Sternutatio, or excessive sneezing, may be the direct result of simple irritation of the Schneiderian membrane, especially if this be hyperiesthetic, ' Op. cit., p. 403. 2 Rev. des Sci. Med., Oct. 1876. ^ See also Isliam, On Smell in the Diagnosis of Disease (Cincinnati Lancet and Clinic, Oct. 9, 1875) ; and Clinton Wagner, On Smell, hygienically an,i medico-legally considered (The iEs- culapian, Feb. 1884). * Hughlings .Tackson, Med. Times and Gaz., Ang. 13, 1864. ® Forbes Winslow, On Ohscnre Diseases of the Brain, etc. * Maniganlt, Dubois, Westphal, Sander, Schlager.