636 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Fig. 1025. Laryngoscopic picture in contusion of the larynx. (Packard.) Contused ^younds give rise to one or more of the following group of symp- toms : Bruise or other external evidence of injury ; severe pain or tenderness on motion of the parts and on deglutition ; dysphonia or aphonia; cough, with l)loody expectoration; spasm of the glottis; spasmodic, opisthotonic retraction of the cervical muscles d tumefaction of the integument. D}’s- pncea is but slight, unless there has been tumefaction, effusion, or laceration and hemorrhage internally—cir- cumstances under which apnoea may ensue. Insensibility from shock is noticed as a prominent symptom in some cases. Laryngoscopically, the evidence of congestion and of hemorrhagic effusion may be quite marked, as in a case reported by Dr. Packardof Philadelphia. (Fig. 1025.) Panctared wounds give rise to threatening apnoea from accumulation of blood in the air-passages. Punctured wounds of the trachea may give rise to hemorrhage internally, as shown by haemoptysis, even though there be no hemorrhage externally. Emphysema of the neck is quite a pro- minent symptom, and may occasion serious dyspnoea. Sometimes it extends to a great distance from the seat of the external wound. In the efforts at expectorating, blood-clots may become lodged in the air-passage so as to oc- clude it. Such a clot has been known to become impacted in a ventricle, and to form there a valve preventing ingress of inspiratory currents of air. In either event, symptoms of suffocation will ensue. Pain or tenderness, cough, dyspnoea, and dysphonia or aphonia, exist in some instances as in wounds of the air-passages in general. Incised wounds occasion various combinations of symptoms according to the extent of the wound, its location, the injury to the surrounding tissues, and the age and physical and mental condition of the individual. The main objec- tive symptoms are : first, the gaping external wound, exposing the muscular and vascular tissues of the neck, the air-passage, and the phar^mx or oesophagus, as maj^ be; and, secondly, hemorrhage, and the escape of mucus, blood, and saliva, through the wound as well as from the mouth. Fluids swallowed will escape likewise in some instances, unless the parts are supported exter- nally during deglutition. In a case of suicidal wound seen by myself, this was the first symptom to attract attention, hemorrhage having ceased, and the divided parts being concealed by a beard. Emphysema is usually a later manifestation than those detailed. The edges of the wound gape little or much, according to its location and the depth of the section. They are but slightly separated when the incision into the larynx or trachea has been shallow or incomplete, while they may be separated to a distance of several inches, even the breadth of a hand, when the section has been a deep or com- plete one. In wounds through the thyro-hyoid membrane, or the superior portion of the thyroid cartilage, the upper segment may recede to the very jaw. In wounds through the trachea, the lower segment may recede behind the sternum. The hemorrhage is usually copious, even though the great cervical blood- vessels be uniniured. Dyspncea or apnoea sometimes results at once, from entrance of blood into the air-passages; both much more frequently with small wounds than with large ones. The hemorrhage often ceases by syncope. Secondary hemorrhage, however, is to be expected on reaction, and this, again, may suffocate the patient, especially if the edges of the external wound have been stitched meanwhile in close apposition. > Stromeyer, HandRuch der Chirurgie, Bd. ii. S. 309. Freiburg, 1865. 2 Arebives of Laryngology, vol. i. p. 57. 1881.