INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FRONTAL SINUS. 445 distension of the parts, deformity of the eyeball, and swelling of the upper ej'elid. In such a case, if it be not evacuated by artificial means, pus will usually pass into the other sinus by breaking down the septum, or may pos- sibly perforate through the anteilor wall, if it cannot find its way out by the nose, which is the most favorable direction. The possibility also must always be borne in mind, that an acute abscess may make its way into the cranial cavity through the posterior wall of the sinus, or, if the orbit be involved, through the optic foramen, and that the brain may thus become implicated, especially in tertiary syphilis.* j3izet^ reports such a case of perforation from syphilitic abscess, in which there was a hernia of the Schneiderian membrane, through the aperture. The symptoms of acute inflammation and of abscess are usually marked: pain, weight and fulness over the forehead, headache, and all the local symptoms of an acute coryza, are early complained of. The formation of an abscess is indicated by an accession of the local swelling and an increase in the local sufiering, higli febrile disturbance, excessive headaclie, rigors, and delirium ; even semi-coma may result, and perhaps paralysis of the limbs of the opposite side, showing the course taken by the pus. (Watson.) An erysipelatous blush ap}iearing upon the surface is regarded by many authors as an almost unerring sign of the natui’e of the disease. Treatment by leeching over the affected sinus early in the acute form of the disease, may abort it; if it fail, pus form, and the case become urgent, as shown by the cerebral disturbance and excessive local inflammation,an attein]>t may be first made to establish a communication with the cavity of the sinus through the nose, and thus draw otf the accumulated matter, Ijy passing a stout probe up through the natural channel with some force ; if tins fail, an incision is made, directly through the swollen tissues down to the bone, and a small trephine is then used, to make an opening into the most dependent part of the sinus. If there be no evidence of swelling or pointing at any one place, the instrument should be applied at the u}i}»er and inner angle of the orbit. Tbe opening made, the cavity may be washed out with warm, disinfectant, astrin- gent, anodyne, or detergent solutions, and a drainage tube inserted. If necrosed bone be present, as in syphilis, it must be carefully removed ; much relief may be given, also, by the use of various sedative ointments applied to the nasal mucous membrane, by means of a probe wrapped witli cotton. Cohen recom- mends one of stramonium, or simj)le cerate in whicli a few grains of morphine to the ounce have been well incorporated. Chronic abscess, or mucocele, in its Qarly stage, resembles very closely a bony tumor; if it has lasted any length of time, it usually causes either an absor[)tion of tbe expanded poi'tion ot bone over it, or renders this so thin that it is readily com})ressible; an exploratory puncture is thus easily made into the tumor, and its true nature established; a direct incision will now serve to free it of its contents, and attempts must then be made to establish, either by the natural way or liy an artificial puncture, communication with the nasal passage; and this must be kept open by means of a drainage tube, until its permanency has been established. IIropsy of THE FRONTAL SINUS, cases of wliicli have been reported, is proba- bly of the same nature as mucocele, and requires the same treatment. Tumors of the Frontal Sinus.—Cystic gron'tlis,\v\\\<i\\ are more frequently tound tlian tumors of any other variety, may be serous, liydatid, or steato- matous in their nature; they may occur at any age, or even be congenital; ' Ricliter, Observat. cliir. Fasc. ii. “ Uaz. M6(l. (le Paris, p. 663. 1863.