598 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. Fig. 1018. them a case of lymphoma which was under my care, and in which the tumor occupied the clavicu- lar region. Papillary growths are met with in the neck in both the simple and eiiithelial forms of warts, but they do not demand detailed notice. NiEVi are not unusual in the neck, and may be either arterial, venous, or mixed, cutaneous or subcutaneous, etc., as in other parts, but there is nothing in their nature, progress, or man- Lymphoma of the neck. agement, special or peculiar, derived from the region in which they occur. I have twdce had occasion to excise deep arterial neevi lying on and implicating the sterno-mastoid muscle. In the first case, the growth, before being cut upon, had all the physical characters of a glandular tumor, and, as it was enlarging and causing deformity, the patient (a female) wished it removed. There was no pulsation observed till the soft parts were divided, and it was prominent and firm. It bled very freely indeed when touched with the knife, and it had to have needles })laced under it, and a twisted suture applied, before the bleeding could be arrested. 'When the true nature of the tumor was recognized, it was removed along with an inch and a quarter of the muscle which was involved. This patient died of septicajmia in ten days. In the second case the tumor had been cut into in the country, and the patient was sent to me in Glasgow, with many pins and ligatures in position, which had been applied to command the serious bleeding that had taken place. In this case the tumor was successfully excised along with all the affected muscle. In both cases the ntevoid nature of the tumor was recognized after removal. It is always to be remembered that venous and mixed nfevi usually disap- pear spontaneously after teething is over, and that injections should never be used in dealing with these affections on the head or neck, from the danger, which is very real and imminent, of causing thrombosis. Excision is by far the best mode of dealing Avith nfevi here and elsewhere, Avhen it can be em- ployed, but the ligature, cauterization, electrolysis, etc., may in some cases be preferred. Lipoma is sometimes met Avith in the neck, and may attain a very great size, groAving sloAvly and painlessly, and only occasioning harm by its me- clianical effects. Such a groAvth may affect even a young child, and may appear for the first time soon after birth. Ho part of the neck is exem})t from these tumors, but it is on the posterior aspect that they have been most usuall}’ seen. Liston refers to sevei'al exanq)les of large fatty groAvth in the neck, and medical literature is rich in such cases; in many instances very large tumors of this kind have been successfully removed.* Their physical characters are all well knoAvn. They may be sessile or pedunculated, doughy to the hand, and occasionally so soft as to appear fluctuating. They may be in rare cases symmetrical, and they may, it is said, occasionally cause the skin to ulcerate J See Trails. Pathol. Soo. of London (especially for 18G0) ; also Indian Med. Gaz. 1874.