963 URINARY FISTULiE. tebralis. After prolonged and difficult cliild-birtli labor, urinary fistula lias arisen from sloughing of, or injury to, the ureter, and the fistula in some eases has opened into the uterus, and in others into the top of the vagina. In tlie removal of ovarian and uterine tumors, the ureter has on several occasions been divided, and it would have been well in these accidents if the renal part had been brought out through a wound made for the purpose in the loin of the same side, and its orifice there attached by sutures so as to be outside the peritoneal cavity. Agnew^ mentions a case in which the ureter was accidentally divided in removing an adherent ovarian cyst. The renal end was secured in the external wound, and a urinary fistula formed. The patient lived several months, and finally died of some obstruction in the course of tlie duct. The great olpection to bringing such a long, cord-like structure out at the anterior abdominal wound, is lest it sliould be a cause of subsequent intestinal obstruction. It is quite possible to mistake, for the moment, the spermatic vein for the ureter. Once in removing an ovarian tumor, in a case which was complicated by numerous and difficult adhesions, a long, narrow tube tore away from the back of the cyst-wall; it looked like the ureter, and I traced it up to the right loin ; further examination, however, proved it to be the ovarian vein. It has also happened to me on one occasion, when remov- ing the entire uterus for cancer of the os and cervix, to cut out about half an inch of the pelvic end of the ureter, which was thoroughly incorporated in the diseased tissue about the neck of the womb. I turned the lower end of the part still connected with the kidney, into the vagina, and fixed it there, and then closed the opening in the [)eritoneum by sutures. The patient did not, however, recover from the shock of the operation upon the uterus, so that the result of the injury to the ureter could not be determined. In six" out of ninety-four published cases of extii’patiou of the uterus, one ureter has been divided; and in two other cases, both ureters. When tlie disease is seated in the cervix of the uterus, and the tissues around are infiltrated, this accident is often unavoidable, unless some of the tissue infiltrated with cancer is left behind. When the disease is quite in an early stage, and sit- uated in the os or fundus, tliere is little or no risk to the ureter if care be taken. I have removed the uterus for early cancer of the os uteri, by the abdoniino-vaginal method, without seeing or injuring either ureter. It was for a urinary fistula of the ureter that the kidney was first success- fully removed, the operation, as is now well known, being lumbar nephrec- tomy ; and it was performed by Simon, of Heidelberg. Out of eight nephrec- tomies for ui-inary fistula, seven have been lumbar and one abdominal; the abdominal incision was made more externally or laterally than the linea semilunaris, and the operation was performed by Mr. K. Thornton. The cases in which large urinary cysts have formed and been tapped in the lumbar region, and which have been supposed to be due to wounds of the ureter,^ have been discussed in a previous section of this article. (See "Wounds of Kidney and Ureter.) Fistula? which communicate with the Urinary Bladder.—(I) Vesico-ab- (lominal Fistnlrc.—Wounds, gunshot and otherwise; sub-parietal rupture of the bladder; ulceration of the coats of the bladder from disease of its Avails or from the pressure of a foreign body within the organ; and inflammation begininng in the peritoneum, pelvic cellular tissue, or ovary or other pelvic ' I'riiiciples and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. .370. * Spencer Wells, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. Ixv. p. 34. ® Stanley, ibid., vol. xxvii.