INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1110 material for tlie sutures. Billrotli and Czerny used carbolized silk; Ryd}-- gier, catgut. The number of sutures re([uired is generally very large, from forty to sixty baving often been employed ; wbeii tbe opening in the stomach is very small, fewer sutures will of course suffice. In two cases (one of wbicb was successful) Billroth stitched the duodenum to the lesser curvature, and closed the gastric orifice by transverse sutures. He thinks, however, that there is less traction on the stomach, and a more direct passage from the stomach to the duodenum, if the gut is fixed to the greater curvature. This plan he adopted in his third case. Tbe wound in the parietes should be closed by interrupted sutures passed through all the layers of tbe walls, including the peidtoneum. Boracic ebarpie, salicylic wool, or absorbent cot- ton-wool, should be bandaged over tbe fi-ont of tlie abdomen, and tbe patient placed in bed upon the back, with the knees raised. After-treatiiient.—For the first twenty dour or thirty-six hours, or longer if possible, the strength of the patient should be sustained by nutritive ene- mata given every four or six hours. Each enema should consist of two ounces of strong beef-tea, half an egg, and a drachm of brandy, whth a little o[)ium if required. The mouth may be moistened from time to time with a teasponful of iced water or fresh milk. After the first twenty-four hours, the patient may commence to take fluid nourishment in small and frequently re])eated doses, and by degrees a light solid diet may be permitted if all goes Avell. Vanlvleefs ])atient ate Ijeef-steak on the tenth day. Czerny’s patient took meat on the flftli day, and was up on the twentieth. iJaration of Operation and Extent of Parts removed..—Ao one must under- take excision of tlie pylorus Avithout being prepared for a long and tedious operation. The shortest time occupied has, I believe, been one and a half hours. Most cases have taken from tAvo to three hours or more, and some have occupied at least tiA^e hours. The extent of stomach removed varies of course Avith the extent of the disease; but it has amounted to five inches and more along the greater cur- vature, and three or four inches along the lesser. In one ease, nearly the Avhole of the lesser curA^ature Avas implicated and removed ; but the patient died in three hoiu’s. The Aveiglit of the mass removed in Lauenstein’s case is stated as about nine and a half ounces. In Wiilfler’s^ case, the tumor, Avhen removed, Avas the size of an ap})le. Tlie patient did Avell. Dangers of the Operation.—The complicated anatomical relations of the pylorus, the size of the A'iscera divided, the unavoidable tediousness of the manipulations, and the consequent prolongation of the aiifesthetic state, must ahvays cause pjdorectomy to be one of tbe most formidable and exhausting, as Avell as difficult operations. Shock and collapse have been the most fre- (pient cause of death ; and hemonhage, more especially Avhen secondary, is a source of great danger. Peritonitis has not been a freipient complication. In one case (Laiiensteiu’s), a large })Ortion of the transA^erse colon mortified; adhesions had existed betAveen the posterior surface of the stomach and the transverse meso-colon, and had had to be ligatured and divided; and in this Avay, probably, by the cutting off of the arterial sup^tly, gangrene of the bowel ensued and killed the patient about the eighth day. I’robably the greatest dif- ficulty ill the operation is the sepai'ation of adhesions. In the small number of recorded operations, the character of the adhesions found has been Avidely different. Besides the pancreas and colon, the vena cava and vena porta' have been found adherent_to the groAvth. In Billroth’s third case, the pyloric cancer Avas attached to the i)ancreas, and about one bour Avas occupied in isolating it; the entire operation took tAvo and a balf hours. The patient ‘ tAlinburgli Med. Jour., November, 1882.