63 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. Oji. cit., vol. i. p. 609. opinion is ventured upon, the surgeon should be discouraged from making the attempt, he must abandon all hope of any further advance in the diagno- sis of head injuries. There is one variety of brain-bruising which I am confident that I have met with on a number of occasions, and which I shall now proceed to describe. To this condition Mr. Erichsen has applied the term “cerebral irritation.” I have over and over again recognized the accuracy of his description. The pro- baljilities are that in these cases the cortical matter of the brain is diffusely contused, and intensely congested—possilily the latter alone. Tlie patient assumes a peculiar and most characteristic attitude, lying upon his side “ curled up in a general state of flexion.’’ The head is bent upon the chest, the trunk is bent forwards, the knees are drawn up on the abdomen, the legs are bent, and the arms flexed with the hands drawn in. The patient “ does not lie motionless, hut is restless, and- often when irritated tosses himself about.” “ However restless he may be, he never stretches himself out or assumes the supine position, but invariably reverts to the attitude of flexion.” Tie violently resists every effort to open the firndy closed eyelids, l)ut, if this be done, the pupils will be found contracted. The skin is pale, cool, or cold ; there is no heat of head; the pulse is slow—seldom above 70—small and feeble. The s[)hincters are usually unaffected, the patient em})tying the bladder when it requires it, although retention of urine sometimes occurs. “ Irritability of the mind is the prevailing characteristic.” XJnconscions, and paying no attention to what passes, when loudly called to, tlie patient “ shows irritability of temper, frowns, turns away Iiastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth.” There is no stertor during slecg). After the lapse of from one to three weeks, the pulse im[>roves in quality, the surtace temperature increases, and the tendency to flexion subsides, the jiatient lying stretched out. Irritability of temper “ gives ivay to fatuity,” and the mind is evidently weak. Recovery is apt to lie slow, but may eventually be perfect. Secondary com- [ilications may of course ensue at a later period. Erichsen says that “ cerebral irritation” usually follows blows upon the forehead or tenq)les, but the most marked instances which I have seen have been from injuries to other regions of the head. Prognosis.—Contusion of the brain is a most dangerous injury, yet some cases end favorably. When recovery takes place, the contusion is repaired in the same manner as are ajioplectie hemorrhages into the brain. In the slighter cases all traces may have (lisai)peared, or a more or less dense cicatrix, with possibly some central coloring matter, may be detected, when death occurs independently of, and some time after, the injury. As an instance of the methods of repair in the moi'e severe cases. Sir I’. Ilewett^ thus describes tlie appearances seen in a case of extensive brain-contusion and laceration, twenty years after the accident;— The convolutions of the anterior parts of both hemispheres of the brain were exten- sively excavated, and liere the arachnoid and ]>ia mater were carried evenly over both depressions, so that a s|)ace was inclosed beneath them, which was filled by loose areolar tissue and serum. In tlie right hemisfihere, the mouth of the excavation was nearly circular, about an inch and a half in diameter, and so placed that the inferior margin lay close to the base of the brain, whilst the inner one was close to the median fissure. T'iie de[)th of the excavation was about an inch, ami the convolutions about its edge were natural. The cavity commenced, for the most part, abruptly, but one or two convolutions could be traced in a stunted condition down the walls, which had an even surface, and were loosely coated with areolar tissue. In the corresponding part of the left hemisphere, there was also an excavation similar in all respects save that it was only about half the size of that in the right hemisphere. I