<>82 INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. of the passage of tlie intestinal contents. In the case in Sir A. Cooper’s practice related by ]\Ir. He}', precisely the same sort of false anus as in my case, namely, following sloughing of a femoral hernia, Avas spontaneously cured, and tlie Avoman AA^ent through the efforts of parturition afterwards AAuthout ill effects. Finally, other evils besides that Avhich 1113- case illustrates ma3' happen after tlie complete cure of a false anus. Sabatier relates instances of death from rupture of the intestine, due to sAvalloAving indigestible substances Avhich could not pass through the part at Avhicli the false anus had been situated. Scarpa records a case Avhich ended in death, as folloAvs :—A 3mung man Avho Avas almost cured of his false anus ate gluttonouslj' of crab, demol- ishing not 011I3’ its claAvs but their crustaceous covering ; death ensued, and at the post-mortem examination the upper part of the bowel Avas found enor- mously dilated, and the lower part contracted; fecal matter had escaped into the peritoneal cavity, and there Avas a perforation at the upper part of the ileum through Avhich portions of the crab Avere being discharged. Complications.—(1) Prolapse of the superior orifice is the most frequent. It sometimes attains a great magnitude, being a foot or even more in length. It varies at different times, as in a case recorded by Sir W. IjaAvrence, of a man aged 60, Avho had voided his feces entirel}' through the groin for seventeen 3’ears. The projecting part Avas sometimes 4 inches, sometimes 8 or 10 inches long; it Avas equal in size to the forearm, and bled copiousl}". As a rule, the diameter does not exceed two and a half inches or thereabouts; its shape is conical or nearly C3'l,indrical, being contracted at its base; and the mucous coat is SAvollen and congested. (2) Prolapse of the inferior orifice is less common and less extensive than prolapse of the upper. It seems to be caused by peristaltic movements jAro- pelling the mucous excretion of the loAver part of the intestine toAvards the false anus. SabatieF has related tAvo cases of prolapse of the loAver orifice. One Avas that of a soldier, Avith an abnormal opening alloAving of onl}' partial escape of feces through it. After a colickj' seizure, he found a nipple-like protrusion Avhich soon reached the size of a fist, and ultimatel}", though it varied from time to time, Avas generall}' six inches long and one and a half inches in diameter. The man enjo3’ed good health, and Avas hearty and strong. (3) Prolapse of both orifices has been represented bj’ Sir A. Cooper in the second plate of the first part of his Avork on Hernia (second edition). Bour- gei’3"^ has also illustrated this condition, and tAvo cases are quoted by Sir Win. LaAvrence^ from Albinus and Sabatier. (4) False anus may be complicated Avith hernia in the manner Avhich has already been alluded to. Treatment.—The tAvo chief indications are to remove the obstruction caused by the eperon., and to close the external opening. The treatment ma}" be considered under the heads of Palliative and Curative Means. I. Palliative Treatment.—(ft) Pressure bj- a truss so ap})lied as to alloAv of the periodical evacuation of the boAvel. \b) The adaptation of a receptacle of Avhich numerous patterns in numerous materials have been tried, (c) Co- lomb’s plan of making the upper end communicate Avith the lower b}’ means of a curved gum-elastic tube, tAvo or three inches long. II. Curative Cleans.-—(1) To remedy any existing complication by (a) careful attention to diet, as mentioned in the treatment of fecal fistula; {b) an occasional evacuation jier anum, b}' the use of cnemata; (c) prevention or relief of prolapse b}" position and pressure; and {d) prevention of premature- * Mem. de I’Acad. deChir., tome v. p. 398. “ See Teale’s article in Costello’s Cyclopedia of Practical Surgery, vol. ii. p. 202. ® Treatise on Kuptures, p. 419.