HERNIA. 1140 Success and iJurahilitij of the Results of the Subcutaneous Operation.—It has been justly urged that the immediate success of such au operation as that under consideration is not as fair a test of its worth as the permanence of its results. Fully im})ressed with this opinion, I have, at the expense of much pains and trouble, kept notes of three hundred cases, and have obtained the results given in the accompanying Table and Statistics. It has of course been extremel}'' difficult to follow the cases operated on, derived as they have been chiefly from the veiy migratory working classes during a considerable number of years. The first case given in the Table was one of veiy large scrotal rupture operated on at King’s College Hos[)ital, in the presence of the late Sir AVilliam Fergusson, Professor Partridge, Sir Spencer Wells, Mr. Henry Smith, and many other distinguished sur- geons. Since the operation, the patient has been employed in very bard, laborer’s work, and has, moreover, been severely tried by a winter-cougli and bronchitis. He has worn no truss whatever, except for a few months immediately after the operation. He has been shown at various metropolitan societies and surgical assemblages, from time to time, at intervals of sdme years, and is well known to London surgeons inter- ested in this operation. He has been shown at the London meeting of the British Medi- cal Association, in 1873 ; at the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society ; at the Royal College of Surgeons, on several occasions ; and on numerous occasions, at intervals, in the ope- rating Theatre at King’s College Hospital. The seat of operation is sound and resisting, and is, in fact, better than the opposite side, which shows a slight bubonocele, from lifting and coughing. Tliis circumstance serves to indicate the amount of strain that has been put u[)on the cured side during the twenty-four years that it has so successfully resiste<l, and the unyielding nature of the union when properly established. The total number of cases wbicb I have been able to keep in view, noting their condition from titne to time Avitli much care and trouble, amounts to flfty-six. They are given for the sake of convenience in the accompanying tabulated form, with the date of the operation, and the date when last seen by the operator, or, in a few cases, beard of from some other surgeon. It has been thought most convenient to place them in the order of the dura- tion of time for which the rupture has been kept under notice and known to be cured. Many have been seen up to a late date, and many at various yearly intervals of which the last date is given. Two have been known to be cured up to the time of death from consumption ; others have dropped out of observation. The earliest cases were taken without much selection as to size and difficulty, and from a class of persons mostly proverbially careless as to the due application of trusses. Many wore no truss whatever after the operation. In the later cases, after the operation had been tested and perfected, a more careful selection was made.