1137 INGUINAL HERNIA. ;ind may require close observation and comparison of s^miptoms, and of the history of tlie case. Fatty tumors growing from the suh-peritoncal or connective tissue of the cord maj' closelj' resend)le irreducible omental hei'uia'. If they do not increase, they should not he meddled with further than h}' the use of a truss in doubt- ful cases, as pressure Avill he of service in either condition. If they grow and give trouble, they should be removed, whether omental or suh-peritoneal, with antisejitic }irecautions. Chronic pelvic or iliac abscesses may point through the inguinal canal, guided by the vas defei'eus or round ligament, and may simulate, liy the cough- impulse Avhich they possess, the formation of a hernia. They are distinguished by the dulness of percussion in the iliac and inguinal regions, and by the tiuctuation which is apparent when they iirotrude near the surface. The history of the ease, and evidences of disease in the lumbar or pelvic region, will throw light upon their nature. Ifinlatid tujtiors in the inguinal region or in the spermatic cord, may also simulate inguinal hernia. They are not reducible, are often lohulated, grow slowly hut uniformly larger, and never diminish oi’ altei-nate in size. An as})iration-puncture will most clearly show' their nature. Enlarged and inflamed inguinal glands may he attended wdth syni])toms of disturbance of the alimentary canal, so as to simnlate somewdiat hernial con- ditions. AYhen such glands are movable on their deep and supei'ticial struc- tures, they can usuall}' he felt to he of the characteristic glandular sliape, sometimes multiple, and distinct from the ah<lominal rings or inguinal canal. When inltamed, or suppurating, the irregularit}' of the lunqi, and the redness, (edema, and other a}>pearanees of induration, adhesion, tiuctuation, etc., will he sutticiently clear, and further light may he gained from the pre- sence of such atiections of the scrotum and penis as give rise to sympathetic bubo. Radical Cure of Inguinal Hernia.—The question of the propriety of em- ploying methods for radicallj' curing this troublesome and incapacitating condition of hernia, depends, tirst, upon the immediate risk to life of the steps proposed ; and, secondl}', u|)on the permanence of tlie cure thus produced. Of these considerations the tirst is by far the most impoi-tant. It will he seen that the prudence of incurring immediate risk depends much upon the severity of the inconvenience, pain, and danger endured. !Some of the principles of insurance here come into i»la_y. If the ])ain, inconvenience and loss, and ultimate risk he great, it will he right and prudent to risk more to remove them. The same may also he said of the [(rospccts of certainty of success or failure in the remedy. Many remedies have been at various times })i’oposed and tried. With hut few excej)tions these have lieen relinquished, lieeause their results have been too fatal, or not efficacious in producing a permanent cure. Space will not allow'me here to consider the numerous and various ways in wdiicli a permanent cure has liceii sought foi-, from the earliest days of sui-geiy to the })rescnt time. It will he sufficient to give those methods wdiicli my own exjierienco has found to he most favorable for tlie desii’ed end, and from the results of wdiidi we can most securely calculate the patient’s chances. We can then judge of the advisability of recommending a patient to seek the advantage of a radical cure, or to he content to suffer tlie evil that he has. In estimating the advisability of undertaking an operation for the radii’al cure of any hernia in w’hich an ojieration is at all feasible, w'C must tirst consider the risks incident to the liernial (condition. First, the risk to life. This amounts to the estimate usually made by the medical referee to a life- \ or.. V.—72