505 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE, ally see patches on the tongue and cheeks in association with non-syphilitic skin-diseases, viz. psoriasis and pityriasis. Alterations in the cuticle of the tongue are likely to attract attention in an early stage, and their prompt recognition and treatment are important. Before examining the surface of a tongue, care should be taken to dry it thoroughly, since the presence of saliva masks many of the characteristic appearances. The ordinary furred, red, or glazed tongues, which are only evidences of gastric irritation or general fever, can hardly he considered surgical, but when one side of the tongue only is covered with “ fur,” there must be some local cause for irritation, which will probably be found in a decayed molar tooth of tlie upper jaw. Uilton^ has shown that occasionally a one-sided, furred condition of the tongue, may be symptomatic of injury to the lifth nerve in fracture of the base of the skull. 3Iucous tubercles of the ordinary flat form are occasionally met Avith on the tongues of prostitutes, and others suftering from secondary syphilis, and in these cases confirmatory evidence Avill be found about the lips and inside the cheek. A warty condition of some of the papillie of the dorsum of the tongue, occasionally occurs in perfectly healthy children and adults, and is best treated by paring down the growth and applying nitrate of silver. True papilloma occurs occasionally upon the dorsum of the tongue, consist- ■ing in a patch of thickened mucous membrane covered with hypertrophied and prominent papillie. In its early stage it is quite superficial, and may be readily removed with the knife, but at a later period it is apt to invade the deeper layers of the corium, and to present an appearance closely resembling epithelioma, but Avithout any lymphatic enlargement. Possibly, in some of the successful cases of removal of portions of the tongue for epithelioma, the disease really may have been papilloma. A loss of epithelium in patches on the dorsum of the tongue, by Avhich a smooth, bluish surface is left, undergoing no alteration for many Aveeks together, is generally due to syphilis, and may be combined Avitli a fissured and scarred condition of the sides and tip of the organ. There is a foi-m of smooth tongue Avhich is apt to end in cancer, but here the loss of epithelium is more uniform and extensive, and there is submucous induration. This latter form has been specially investigated by Mr. Butlin,^ Avho regards the dis- ease as a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, and not the result of cicatrization, but probably allied to psoriasis and ichthyosis; this view, however, is contested by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson. A more formidable condition is that known as ichthyosis linguce, in Avhich not only is the epithelium hypertrophied, but the papilla3 are greatly enlarged, the surface of tlie tongue being rough, hard, ami fissured. This is a chronic affection, lasting for many years, but tending eventually to develop into epi- thelioma. Mr. llulke,® avIio originally described the disease, says: “Ichthyosis is characterized by tough, Avhite, raised patches on the surface of the tongue. Their color is not unlike that of a thin film of boiled Avhite of egg, or Avet kid leather. They are clinically distinguishable from syphilitic condylomata hy their thick epithelium and their Avide su})erficial extent; and from syphi- litic nodes and cancerous tumors by their restriction to tlie mucosa, by their exact circumscription, by the natural softness of the underlying muscular tissue (shoAving the absence of infiltration), and by the absence of ulceration and of infection of the lymphatics.” ' Lectures on Rest and Rain. * Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions,vol. Ixi. ® Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. ii.