( 493 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, FAUCES, TONGUE, PALATE, AND JAWS. BY CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S., HOLME PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON, AND SURGEON TO UNIVERSITY COLLEGE HOSPITAL. Injuries of the Mouth, Fauces, and Tongue. AVounds of the tongue caused by the teeth of epileptics are seldom severe enough to require any special treatment, but bites of the tongue caused by a fall upon the chin or a violent blow beneath the jaw, when the tongue is pro- truded, are often serious. The hemorrhage may be best arrested by the use of ice, or, in its absence, by exposing the part to cold air, but any serious arterial bleeding should be controlled with a ligature, which, though apt to be soon sucked otf, usually sufficiently accomplishes its purpose if tied tightly. When only the margin of the tongue is bitten through, no stitches will be required, but when a large portion of the tip is hanging loose, it will be necessary to put silk sutures deeply into the substance of the tongue, in order to bring the parts into apposition. I have, on more than one occasion, had to pare the edges of a bitten tongue in which this had been neglected, and then bring the jiarts together again with stitches. AVounds of the tongue by the stem of a pipe or a crochet-needle, held in the moutli, occa- sionally occur, and a piece of broken tobacco-pipe has been found imbedded in the tongue many months after the accident. In the case of a crochet- needle or fish-hook which may have been accidentally driven into the tongue, it will be necessary to force the barbed point conq»letely througb the organ, in order that its removal with cutting-pliers may permit the withdrawal of the shaft of the instrument. AA" OUNDS OP THE FAUCES may be due to accident or to surgical interference. Accidental wounds are mostly caused l;>y the forcible thrusting liackwards of a tobacco pipe, and are unimportant, unless, as has happened, the stem should have been driven obliquely outwards into the internal carotid arteiy.^ In such a case the withdrawal of the stem must lead to fatal hemorrhage, and it may be doubted wliether, if the injury could be diagnosed, the fatal event could lie averted. A case of deep arterial wound liy the point of a parasol, in which the common carotid was successfully tied, is recorded by Air. Dur- ham,^ but it was probaldy some branch of the external carotid which was wounded. The hemorrhage following a puncture of an inflamed tonsil is often ' See cases by Mr. Vincent (Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix.), and Mr. Charles Moore (Lancet, Sept. 10, 18(i4). * Holmes’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 745.