INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE AIR-PASSAGES. 736 judicious. The surfaces from which the growths have been removed should then be thoroughly cauterized with the thermic cautery, silver-nitrate, or zinc-chloride, to destroy remnants and prevent repullulation. These manipu- lations are by no means easy. The spasmodic heaving of the pai’ts when touched Avith an instrument, the cough, and the hemorrhage, often interfere with a continuous operation and render its steps uneven, uncertain, and tedious. Should preliminary tracheotomy have been performed, the canula should be retained in use until it has become evident that intra-laryngeal cicatrization has been safely accomplished. It is hardly necessary to enter into any argument as to the preference to be given to intra-laryngeal procedures over the operations just described. If a tumor can be removed by way of the mouth, Avith safety to the patient, he should not be unnecessarily subjected to an extei’nal operation. If the mat- ter be doubtful, a preliminary tracheotomy should insure him from suffoca- tion under the manipulation. If, however, the groAvth he beloAv the Amcal bands, and inaccessible through the mouth, or if it he so extensiA'e as to pre- clude thorough eradication by way of the mouth, the external operation should be resorted to Avithout AA^asting A’aluable time in tearing little bits away to no purpose. Malign Tumors.—These growths, malignant histologically and clinically, comprise the groups Sarcoma and Carcinoma. I. Sarcoma.—The varieties of sarcoma reported as having been seen in the larynx,comprise the spindle-celled, round-celled, giant-celled,and mixed-celled, and the composite neoplasms, ffbro-sarcoma, lympho-sarcoma and myxo-sar- coma. Sarcoma of the larynx is usually single, and rarely exceeds the size of a small Avalnut or of a pigeon’s egg. Some examples have been reported the size of small beans. The disease is rare, only tAventy-three instances having been collected as the basis of an admirable study by Mr. Butliu,^ to which, and Fig. 1088. Fig. 1089. Small-celled sarcoma on left ventricular band. (Jurist.) Fig. 1088, Before section of larynx. Fig. 1089, Larynx opened posteriorly. for Avhich, I beg here to acknoAvledge my OAvn indebtedness. Most cases are primary. A few have been reported as secondary.^ Most sarcomas originate ‘ On Malignant Disease (Sarcoma and Carcinoma) of the Larynx. London, 1883. 2 Eppinger (Klebs, llandbuch der piathologiscben Auatomie, Bd. ii. Abtb. 1, S. 209. Berlin,1880).