669 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. body takes place in the right primaiy bronchus much the more frecpiently, because, as indicated by Gross,* the septum at the bifurcation is to the left side, and because the right bronchus is the more capacious (Fig. 1035). In some instances a foreign body has become arrested in each primary bronchus. In some it becomes arrested in one of the smaller bi’onchi.^ If arrested in the larynx, it may become lodged in one or both ventricles^ (Fig. 1036), or may become impacted between the vocal hands. Fig. 1036. Bone imprisoned in the ventricle of the larynx. (Mackenzie.) A remarkable case of impaction in the posterior wall of the trachea, de- tected ten months after tracheotomy and the necessary retention of the canula, has been recorded by Voltolini,^ an anterior concavity in the foreign body having permitted the passage of the canula, although it impeded respiration whenever the canula was withdrawn. A cleansing rod, allowed to slip through a tracheotomy wound, was detected by aid of a tracheal mirror,® and ex- tracted with forceps during cough. Occasionally a sharp foreign body in the larynx is forced thi-ough tlie tissues, soft and hard, to the exterior, whence it may he removed by integu- mentary incision f even the head of a pin has been known to penetrate tlie crico-thyroid membrane in this Avay.^ Occasion has already occurred (p. 635) to notice a case in which the point of a dart penetrated the carotid artery, and produced fatal hemorrhage. Sharp-pointed substances, such as needles and pins, sometimes become impacted in the tissues of the larynx Avithout directly interesting the lumen of the air-passage. Thus a case has been recorded by Wheeler,® in Avhich a threaded needle pierced an arytenoid cartilage; laryngoscopic inspection shoAving it to he fixed oblirjuely by the eye into the left palato-pharyngeal fold, and by the point into the arytenoid cartilage. Other efforts at extrac- tion failing, pharyngotomy was performed and the needle extracted. A somewhat similar but still more remarkable case has been reported by Semon,® ’ Op. cit., p. 46. 2 Forbes, Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxiii. p. 1 ; cited by Gro.ss. 3 Mackenzie, Trans. Patli. Soc. Lond., vol. xviii., p. 27, and Diseases of the Tliroat and Nose, etc., vol. i. ]). 417. ■' Berlin, klin. Wocli., 8 Februar, 1875. ^ Scliinidt, Arcli. f. klin. Cliir., Bd. xviii. S. 1. 6 Wharton, Med. News, November 17, 1883, p. 541. ^ Cooines, Med. and Snrg. Ilej>., Maroli 22, iS84, p. 363. * Med. Press and Circular, April 22, 1875 ; cited by Poulet (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 80). “ Trans. Clin. Soc. Loud., vol. xvi. ; Reprint, London, 1883.