958 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. few months, and then close ; or it may last as long as the patient lives—cases of four, eight, ten, and even fifty years’ duration are recorded. The fistula caused by a simple ulcer may close up spontaneously and permanently ; or, having closed, may re-open after a time; or may remain permanently open, and the patient live for seven, nine, twelve, or thirty years. Treatment.—Although in several of the recorded cases the fistula has closed spontaneously, in only two out of twenty-five instances collected by Murchi- son does closure seem to have been the effect of treatment. In one of these, a fistula of ten years’ duration was closed by making the patient keep quiet in her bed for some weeks. In the other, a cure was effected by keeping the edges approximated by means of the gradually increased compression of a circular bandage, feeding by the rectum, and preventing contact of the escaping contents of the stomach with the surrounding skin. Tlie indications for treatment are : (1) To prevent if possible the escape of the injecta. This is to be done by the use of a suitable, flat compress ; not a plug, which does not effectually answer its purpose, whilst it tends to enlarge the opening. (2) To keep the surrounding integuments clean and as free from irritation as possible. To this end careful washing and drying, followed by the application of zinc ointment, of oxide of zinc in powder, or of oiled lint around the opening, are essential. (3) To encourage granulation and cicatriza- tion of the edges of the wound by the occasional use of a stimulating applica- tion, and to make them approach one another as near as possible by the use of some well-adjusted, compressing bandage. In the case of Alexis St. Martin, the necessity of any compress to prevent oozing was after a time obviated by a slight protrusion of the coats of the stomach, and in other cases a similar natural plug has been formed. In no known case, except Middeldorpf’s (1859), has any operative procedure succeeded. I can, however, see no objection to the ju’oposal to attempt in suitable cases to close a gastric fistula by a fiap of skin dissected off the neighboring part of the abdomen, turned with its cuticular surface inwards, and nicely fitted to the orifice, whose edges should have been previously freshened. Ho such attempt should, however, be made until nature’s efforts have failed; and to facilitate union if such an operation is performed, the patient must for many days be fed by the rectum. It is to be feared, however, that the contact of the gastric juice maj' interfere with primary union, Avhilst there is the risk of perchance exciting inter- stitial inflammation in the coats of the stomach. Biliary Fistulje. External or cutaneo-biliary FiSTULiE are the result (1) of gunshot wounds. In some cases the shot has passed right through tlie liver and penetrated the parietes in two places, bile aftenvards issuing from one of them; in other eases the shot has been buried dee})ly in the liA’er-substance. (2) Blows over tlie liver lead to adhesions between that organ and the parietes, and tlien to abscess either in the parietes or in the liver itself. After the incision or spontaneous bursting of the abscess, a fistula results. (3) Hepatic abscess of non-traumatic origin ma}^ point and open at any part of the parietes Avith Avhich the liver is in contact. These openings often heal, but in some cases a gangrenous ulceration of the parietes of the abdomen folloAvs and keeps the fistula open. (4) Gall-stones sometimes, after leading to adhesions of the gall-passages, are discharged externally. The gall-bladder is usually the part of the biliary system thus affected. A^et after the discharge of several facetted gall-stones through the umbilicus, I have knoAvn the fistula to be only teinporary; the patient was a young Avoinan in the practice of Mr.