INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 948 also; blit clay by day, week by week, the life and strength are slowly worn away. A few cases of ruptured abdominal aneurism leading to reti’o-peri- toneal liemorrbage are recorded in the London Pathological Society’s Trans- actions.^ In one of tliem^—a case which I bad seen during life and examined after death—the enormous tumor had everywhere pulsated, nothing but skin and condensed cellular tissue formed its posterior limit, and in front it had rup- tured into the peritoneum just above the ccecum. Dr. Habershon has men- tioned to me a very interesting ease in a gentleman under his care, whose death was very slowly brought about by the ruptui’e of an abdominal aortic aneurism, and the gradual elfusion of blood behind the peritoneum. A very similar clinical course and pathological condition occur in ruptured aneurisms of the tlioracic aorta, as is shown by a case of my colleague Dr. Coupland,^ and others. Another cause of retro-peritoneal hemorrhage is ulceration by pressure of an abscess or a tumor. A case will be hereafter mentioned in which stric- ture of the oesophagus set up suppuration behind the dia})hragm, and death resulted from hemorrhage from the aorta, the coats of which were ulcerated through just above the coeliac axis. Urine may be extravasated into the retro-peritoneal tissue of the loin from rupture of the kidney or its jielvis, or from ulceration or direct wound of those parts, the result of operation or accident. Ulceration of the ureter from tlie pressure of a morbid growtli has lieen known to give rise to urinai’y ex- travasation in the iliac region, as in the case of a man aged 67, who was admitted under Mr. Clark’s care into the Middlesex Hospital, for a large sar- comatous tumor the size of a cocoanut, between the rectum and bladder, beneatb the peritoneum. The tumor invaded the bladder, and caused complete ulceration of the right ureter about two and a half inches above its lower end. The ends of the ureter were ragged and sloughy, and there was a quantity of brownish fluid and sloughing cellular tissue beneath the peritoneum in the right iliac region. Into the sub-i)eritoneal tissue of the pelvis, urine escapes from tlie bladder after rupture; or through an ulcerous or fistulous opening caused by syphilis or other necrotic process, arising either from within or outside the bladder Avails. When urine escapes from the kidney into the loin, it diffuses itself Avidely, and may displace the over-lying viscera—liver, spleen, etc.-—pushing them considerably fonvards. The inflammation excited may run on to suppuration, Avith pointing in the loin or groin, or the cellulitis may stop short of suppuration, and become chi’onic in character, spreading sloAvly toAvards the iliac fossa and brim of the pelvis, and causing contraction of the ilio-psoas muscle. Under these circumstances, a firm, hard SAvelling Avill remain in the iliac or lumbar region for many months, but may ultimately clear uj), and the muscular contraction Avill yield to shampooing or one of the many modes of making extension. In some instances the effused urine becomes encapsuled Avithin a thick-Avalled cyst of inflammatory formation, and with the cavity of this cyst, Avhich may con- tain pus as Avell as urine, the kidney communicates at its point of rupture or ulceration. The urine contained in this false cavity is sometimes very dilute, and it has been supposed that this is the reason Avhy the destructive changes Avhich so generally folloAV urinary extravasations are sometimes escaped. It is not a fa"ct, however, that the urine Avhich escapes from a ruptured kidney is as a rule deficient in urea, and therefore less irritating than normal urine. ' See especially vols. xix., xxi., xxii., ami xxxiv., in the last of which a striking case is re- corded by Dr. Silcock. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. bond., vol. xxii. p. 104. ® Ibid., vol. xxiv. j). 54.