69 INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. * Op. cit., vol. i. p. 277. Pathology.—The removal of pressure, in conjunction with softening of the cereliral tissue, renders a very slight increase of intracranial tension effi- cient as a cause of protrusion of a portion of the hrain-substance. This is shown by cases where it has followed cranial necrosis. In all other parts, a hyperplastic induration of the connective tissue commonly takes place, Avhereby pus, if it forms, is limited. In tlie brain-tissue, the delicate neuroglia readily allows of infiltration with inflammatory products, and its acute hyper- plasia, instead of strengthening, seems to weaken the tissue, so that the brain readily yields to the least pressure. N’ow intracranial inflammation with cerebral softening is usually present at tlie time when hernia cerebri makes its appearance, and at a stage, too, when free efi'usion into the ventricles, arachnoid sac, and substance of the brain, is- prone to occur. In those rarer cases which occur witliin the first forty-eight hours, I would suggest that the condition is probably due to the paretic dilatation of the vessels observed in concussion, which is, as pointed out by Prof. Agnew,' commonly followed by free exudation of bloody serum. Symptoms.—They are those of inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes, and therefore need not be dilated upon. It is interesting to note that there may be almost a complete absence of all symptoms beyond slight rambling of speech, occasional twitching of the facial muscles, broken sleep, and a full pulse. A^ot unfrequently the patient dies of pyfemia. Diagnosis.—This can hardly be confounded with any other affection except the “ tumeur hematicpie” of Velpeau, which arises from a mere effusion of blood upon the outer surface of the dura mater. I do not know of any spe- cial diagnostic points, but as such tumors are among the great rarities of surgical practice, they can but rarely give rise to mistakes. Prognosis.—Although a very fatal complication, recovery does occasionally ensue. Thus, of 80 cases which I have collected, 25 ended favorably, and 55 in death. Of tlie patients who recover, the majority suffer from vertigo, headache, etc. I do not presume to say that such a small number of cases settles the percentage of mortalit}", lint merely give the figures for what they are worth, as a lethal issue is commonly quite as mucli the result of concom- itant injuries, inflammation, etc., as of the hernial protrusion. Treatment.—In general, the less done the better. As the cause is primarily loss of support, gentle jiressure at the outset, with the use of some antisei)tic absorbent dressing, may be advantageously tried. The })arts should be fre- quently cleansed with some antiseptic astringent ivash. Removal by the knife, tearing, or ligature, must in general be avoided, especially where granulations are springing upon or around the protrusion, as wo should thus still further remove pressure and encourage the growth. The removal of protruding brain-masses is rarely, if ever, efiectual, and experience shows that they at times disappear spontaneously. As the intracranial inflammation, in most instances, stands in a causative relation to henna cerebri, appropriate treat- ment for that ef)iidition is indicated. Great care should be exercised to remove, when possilfie, all fragments of bone which may irritate and injure the dura mater and brain. Mallet, Ilewett, and other surgeons report a nundjer of ap[)osite cases where bony fragments, by causing sloughing of the dura mater and irritation of the brain, have apiJarently favored the formation of hernia cerebri. Special attention should be paid to the state of the cir- culation, winch, if over-excited, must bo controlled I)y appropriate remedies. This is, however, as pointed out by Laurie, rarely the case. Wounds of the Brain and Meninges.—According to the nature of the vulneratiug body, these may be incised, punctured, lacerated, contused, or