689 STRICTURE OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. ber tubes, shaped like the bougies at the laryngeal end (Fig. 1050 a), and introduced through the mouth—a curved oftset being inserted in the protrud- ing portion, to carry downward the mucus which is coughed out. These tubes are retained in position for from lilleeu to thirty minutes. Patients are taught to use them for themselves. The treatment consumes from six to eighteen months in most cases, but occasionally it is much more rapid. McSherry, of Baltimore, has reported good results in his own hands by Schroetter’s method of dilatation,^ in a case in which the lumen of the larynx had been reduced in size to that of a goose-cpiill. Weinleichner^ recommends passing a silk thread from the mouth through the tracheal tube, and knotting it in front, so as to retain it as a permanent guide in placing the sounds or bougies in position. It is said not to interfere witli speech or Avith degluti- tion, and to need removal only when it becomes soiled. The sound can be borne for from half an hour to three or live hours. A patient upon whom laryngotomy had been performed after typhoid fe\mr, in 1871, was cured of stenosis in this Avay, and died in 1877, of pulmonary phthisis. Artificial vocal apparatus has been successfully introduced after dilatation of laryngeal stenosis.^ Mechanical dilators, for more rapid work, have been employed by Schroetter, Mackenzie (Fig. 1052), Aavratil, and others. These are introduced by the Fig. 1052. Mackenzie’s laryngeal dilator.—«, the in.strument closed ; 6, the instrument opened ; s, screw, by which to separate the blades ; 'i, dial-plate, indicating the amount of separation : h, ring for linger. raoutli. Stoerk^ dilates from below with a tAvo-bladed dilator, and McSherry, of Baltimore, with a three-bladed one (Fig. 1053). Rapid dilatation, Iioav- ever, has rarely been successful, and lias been found liable to excite infiain- mation and oedema. 1 Medical News, May 5, 1883, p. 50(J ; Trans. Med. and Cliir. Faculty of Maryland, 1883. “ London Medical Record, April 15, 1878, p. 180. * Wegner, Verliandliingen der Deutschen Gesellscliaft fiir CLirurgie, S. 101. 1878 ; Loudon Med. Record, .Inne 15, 1878, p. 209. ■* Wien. nied. Woch., No. 40, 1879. VOL. V.—44