INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 992 they generally pass per anum, being seldom retained in the gut. Ilemien records a typical case.* The subsequent careers of foreign bodies which have entered the intestine are various. (1) They may remain without giving rise to any, or but slight if any, inconvenience. Mr. MarshalP has recorded a very remarkable case in which a pound of pins was found in the duodenum, and nine ounces in the stomach, of a woman who during life had experienced attacks of gastric irri- tation. The pins had been accumulating at least five years, and at length the duodenum had become impassable. (2) They may penetrate and be discharged through the abdominal walls, either after causing an abscess in the parietes, or after simply leading to adhesions between the bowel and parietal peritoneum. Poland mentions the case of a boy, aged 14, who had had scarlet fever and dropsy, followed by an abscess which burst at the umbilicus. A plum-stone escaped through the fistulous opening. (3) They may pass per anurn. Hager gives an instance of a young woman, aged 25, who vomited several pins, and passed several others with her stools. Mr. Callender^ recorded a case of intestinal obstruction due to the impaction of a gall-stone. On the twelfth day of the symptoms the bowels acted spontaneously, and a calculus w^eighing 1 oz. 13 grs., and measuring’ 2 inches in length by IJ inches in width, passed through the anus w’ith some difficulty. (4) They may penetrate or ulcerate through the walls of the bowel, and escape into the general cavity of the peritoneum, or into some other impor- tant viscus or structure, such as the vena cava or aorta. (5) They may become impacted in the bowel and destroy life by intestinal obstruction; or, after months or years of jiain and d}'spepsia, by chronic ulcer- ation of the gut set up by the foreign body as it gradually passes along the canal. A good instance of intestinal obstruction from gall-stone occurred in the Middlesex Hospital, and the specimen is in our museum. It consists of a portion of the middle of the ileum, with a large and almost spherical gall- stone nearly four inches in circumference; it has been sawn in half, and the upper fragment removed, and in this situation the mucous membrane of the intestine has ulcerated away, and above tliis the bowel is dilated and its peritoneal coat is partly covered by lymph. The gall-stone entered the duo- denum through an ulcerated opening. The patient, a woman aged 40, died after ten days of vomiting and constipation.* Five cases of intestinal obstruc- tion from gall-stone were collected by INlarrotte, and communicated by him to the Aledical Society of the Paris Hospitals, in 1856. Drs. Abercrombie and Oke® have reported three others, and ]\Ir. Swaine and ]\lr. Appleton® have each recorded one case. In Mr. Swaine’s, the calculus was impacted just above the ileo-ctecal valve. In Mr. Appleton’s, there was an intussusception of the ileum just below the impacted calculus. Mr. Arthur E. Parker has recorded a very interesting case of death fi’om intestinal obstruction, due to the impaction of a large biliary calculus in the ujiper part of the ileum, in front of the left iliac region. The stone was 4 inches b}' 44 inches, and weighed over 5 drachms; and 14 or 15 other large biliary calculi were found in the intestines above the point of obstruction, and in the circumscribed, sloughing abscess-cavity which had been formed about, and which in large part had'destroyed, the gall-bladdei\^ The gall-stones had entered the intes- ' Op, cit., p. 408, Case LXV. ^ Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 65. * Trans. Clinical Soc., vol. vi. p. 193. ■< For full report of case, by Dr. Vander Byl, see Trans. Path. Soc. Bond., vol. vii. p. 23. 5 Brit. Med. Jonrn., May 20, 1853. ® Ibid., vol. i. 1857. ? Trans. Path. Soc. Bond.,vol. xxix. p. 142.