700 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. ounce of rose water; alum, five grains to the ounce; ferric chloride, one grain to the ounce ; or silver-nitrate, half a grain to the ounce. Inspira- tions of these sprays should not he sufficient] j powerful to draw the medicament into the bronchi. The tube of the instrument should be held several inches from the mouth, so that the misty spray that falls may be deflected into the throat and larynx by the ordinary breath of inspiration. "VYhen the tube is placed within the mouth, the greater portion of the spray is condensed upon the pharynx, and does not reach the larynx at all. The face and teeth should be protected from stains of iron and silver by directing the spray through a large glass speculum held between the teeth. Exposure to the outside air should be avoided for half an hour, in case a steam apparatus is used. The ordinary hand-ball instrument is all that is recpiircd, for little benefit and some harm may result from the relaxing influence of warm sprays in chronic affections. In cases of several months’ duration, these remedies need to be supplemented by topical astringent and alterant treatment at the hands of the surgeon. The agents most frecpiently employed liy myself are tannin, silver-nitrate, or zinc- sulphate, in uncomplicated cases ; iodine, or iodine and carbolic acid, in cases with submucous tumefactions ; iodoform in tuberculous cases ; and iodoform and acid solution of mercuric nitrate, one part to ten or twelve of Avater, in syphilitic cases. Syphilitic ulcerations often heal under constitutional treat- ment Avithout any topical medication AvliatcAmr. Zinc-chloride and ferric sul- phate have not been as useful, in my hands, as tannin, zinc-sulphate, and silver- nitrate. Boric acid has been lauded as a substitute for iodoform in tuberculous cases. Carcinomatous cases are not suitable for active topical treatment. Be- fore making any application, the parts should be thoroughly cleansed with an alkaline spray, such as those already indicated, to Avhich tar Avater or an emulsion of coal-tar may be added to soothe and disinfect, or Avith a spray of the solution of hjulrogen-peroxide, the best cleanser I haA^e knoAvledge of, one part of a ten-A"olume solution to three or four of distilled Avater. The latter is especially serviceable in cleansing ulcerated surfaces. The entire series of mani- pulations should be performed Avitli the aid of laryngoscopy. The silver-nitrate, forty grains or more to the ounce, is applied Avith a brush for a gentle applica- tion, or Avith a firmly secured fragment of the best surgical sponge, used but once, for a thorough one. With a properly curved forceps, toothed to preA^ent danger of dropping the sponge into the larynx, and firmly locked by a slide- catch, the fragment of sponge may be as small as desired. When a sponge the size of a pea or larger is passed into the larynx, muscular contraction is excited, and a great extent of mucous membrane comes in contact Avith the remedy. This contraction often amounts to spasm, especially at the initial operation. Hence the solution should be extremely Aveak at first, say ten grains or less to the ounce, and the strength should be increased only as tolerance is acquired. Sudden death by suffocation has been knoAvn to folloAV the incautious use of this agent.^ Tannin, best perhaps as a saturated glycer- ite, may be employed in the same Avay. Zinc-sul[)hate, thirty grains to the ounce, jtropelled on the parts by douche or spray, seems to afford better results than applications by brush or sponge. Silver-nitrate in my OAvn hands is reserved for cases in Avhicli the zinc-sulphate has failed. Iodoform or boric aeid, in impalpable poAvder, may be blown upon the parts from a curved tube, as much being used (a grain or more) as is requisite to cover the ulcers. The surgeon’s mouth is the most accurate propeller, but his mouth-piece should be provided Avith a valve to protect him from a return current from the throat of the patient. In many instances several attempts Avill be neces- Arcliiv. f. klin. Cliirurgie, I3d. xxxvii. S. 570. 1882.