MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF THE HEAD. 158 grow towards the brain and spread out between the dura mater and the bone. Some may grow deeply into the brain. It is obvious, moreover, that such of these tumors as grow from the base of the skull cannot well perforate unless located in certain situations. The course of the perforating tumor is as fol- lows; It commences as a small, round nodule on, as a rule, the outer surface of the dura mater. As it increases, the bone adjacent to it undergoes slow absorption, and in time a bole is made which allows the morbid growth to escape. The holes thus formed are generally roundish, they present sharp and irregular edges, and show usually a greater destruction of the inner than of the outer table. Many older writers speak, therefore, of the bone being carious. In all cases the bone appears to be absorbed, and not to be infil- trated and thereby destroyed by the morbid growth. The tumor itself is well encapsuled, and, as a rule, easily separated, not only from the adjacent jjarts, but also from the dura mater itself. When the growth has reached the surface, it spreads rapidly over the skull, stretches the scalp, and ulti- mately—if the patient survives—breaks through the skin as a necrosing, sup- purating mass. As a rule, the sarcoma spread^s at the same time some way between the dura mater and the bone, and it may in any instance grow exten- sively in the direction of the brain. As regards seat, the true fungus is met with on the vault, and the bones most frequently involved arc the parietal, tlien the frontal, then the occipital or temporal together, perhaps with the great wing of the sphenoid. It may project into the orbit, nose, or pharynx, oi’ may escape through the pterygo- maxillary fossa.* Xo cause can in most instances l)e ascribed for these growths, although very often they have appeared to follow upon an injury.^ In some cases the tumor would seem to have been congenital. Fungus of the dura mater is equally common in the two sexes, and the most frequent period of life for it is between twenty and forty. It has been met with in young children; Louis, for example, records a case in a child, aged two years. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—In most cases no symptoms precede the appeai'- ance of the tumor, the external tumor itself being the first thing noticed. In other instances, certain cerebral symptoms are observed as preliminary to the appearance of the growth, and these symjitoms may be somewhat severe. They take the form of severe headache, or of violent neuralgic pains about the skull, of nausea or vomiting, of vertigo, of some confusion of ideas. In the severer instances thei'e may be convulsions, partial or complete loss of sight or hearing, and slight muscular paralysis. Before the fungus actually appears above the surface, a soft spot of thinned bone may perhaps be felt, that crackles on pressure. Louis® records a case in which the discovery of flie tumor was made by a barber while shaving the patient’s head. lie noticed a faint sensation like the crackling of parchment when his razor passed over a certain spot. In a few days a tumor appeared at that spot. The external growth is at first small, flat, and firm. It exhibits pulsations transmitted to it from the brain, and can usually be reduced on pressure. This reduction makes evident a sharp-edged aperture in the skull, and the act itself may cause sudden pain to the patient, and induce vertigo, stupor, or even complete insensibility. As the mass increases it becomes rounded or bossy, and jh’©- sents a distinctly constricted base. It becomes also softer and more elastic, and may appear to fluctuate at places. It is no longer reducible, and exhibits no pulsation, although in some instances it may present a feeble pulse due to ' Sir Wm. Lawrence, Lancet, August, 1853. 2 For instances, see Louis’s well-known monograph rn “Fungous Tumors of the Dura Mater.” Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery. Sydenham Society’s Translation, p. 83. 1848. ® Loc. cit., p. 85