203 INJURIES OF THE EYEBALL. it may pass deeply into the eye without any escape of humor, either acpieous or vitreous, and hence may leave the tension normal. When the patient is not seen for some minutes, hours, or even days after the injury, the wound may be firmly closed, and the lost humors reproduced, so that undue softness is no longer present. The reproduction of lost humors is very rapid, as is known to all operators on the eye. In fact, if the patient is not seen for several days, the eye may be too hard, from internal inflam- mation and secretion; this increased tension then becoming the indirect evi- dence of penetration. The ophthalmoscopic evidence of penetration, when positive, that is, when the body itself is seen, or suftused Ifiood, or a cloudy sleeve of opacity along its track in the vitreous, is quite sufficient. Still, the result of such an examination may be altogether negative, and yet the ofiender be in the eye. Should it rest far forward in the vitreous—behind the iris or ciliary circle—it is detected with great difficulty, if at all. In that case, there being none of the symptoms already emphasized, we should make a reserved diagnosis and wait for further developments; should the extraneous body be in the eye, it is almost certain to give rise to trouble sooner or later. Moreover, tlie supposed visible intruder may prove to be a globule of blood, or air, or both; but that does not invalidate its importance as an evidence of penetration. On the question of the actual presence of the foreign body in the eye, it may leave doubt which can only be cleared up by time. So the cloud seen by the patient, after an injury, may or may not be caused by the presence of a foreign body in the globe, but is strong presumptive proof of penetration. But the eye may be struck behind the cornea, in the sclerotic region. And as this part of the globe is covered by conjunctiva and capsule of Tenon— both being thin, elastic, and movable over its surface—the wound may easily escape notice when small. Its torn edges, and especially the ecchymosis, always, perhaps, present for a short time after the injury, will attract attention to the injured spot. The thing, then, has struck there, but has it entered? If the spot is over the sclero-corneal junction, or very little back of it, we may still look in the anterior chamber for signs of the passage of the wounding body. The iris may be wounded near its ciliary margin, or a small knuckle of its periphery may [)rotrude through the wound. Blood in the aqueous chamber has here also the same positive significance as in wounds through the cornea. Should neither prolapsus iridis, hemorrhage, nor any appreciable rent in the iris be discovered, it is still wise to make a scrutinizing search with the ophthalmoscope, in this, as in all cases of suspicious injuries of the eyeball. Physicians in general pass too lightly over such accidents, assuring the patient at once, perhaps, that nothing is in the eye. I would insist upon the importance of small wounds of the iris, sometimes forming a sharp hole in this curtain, admitting light, and giving a red reflex from the bottom of the eye Avith tlie ophthalmoscope. They ])i'ove not only penetration, but the almost certain presence of the foreign body in the back of the eye. A very small hole or cut in the iris, can only be made by the passage of a veiy small body, and one which must clear tlie cornea before striking the iris. EcbouiKling in that case is impossible. Such an injury could only be caused by a small body, or by a pin or needle, a splinter, or some long, slender projectile. In the latter case, the missile might rebound. It, however, it has also cleared the iris, and is hence invisible, it may be found in the suspensory ligament or margin of the lens, or in the vitreous behind it. The body being small and the edge of the lens Iiarely grazed, there is not likely to lie traumatic cataract—an infallible evidence of penetration Avhen it is detected. The ophthalmoscope may or may not detect the foreign sub-