INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1030 Causes.—Iiiflamimitioii of the Fallopiau tube is u not infrequent result of the puerperal state ; it may be caused also by extension liy continuity from the vagina or uterus, when these are theseatof catarrhal inflammation or ulceration. It is more than probable that the mischief in some instances arises in the ovary, ovaritis or periovaritis preceding the inflammation of the tube and its adhesion to that organ. Certain it is that abscess in the ovary coexists with pyo-salpinx, as the cases registered by Lawson Tait^ and Jjernutz prove. In 1880, a woman, aged twenty-nine, who was admitted into the JMiddlesex Hospital under the care of Dr. Edis, sliortly died of acute general j)eritonitis. At the autopsy, the intestines were found agglutinated and smeared with soft greenish lymph. A very large quantity of pus tilled the posterior cul-de-sac of the pelvis, and pus was seen to ooze from an abscess as large as a heir’s egg, connected with the left ovary. The ovary itself was much swollen, and the Fallopian tube rvas of large size. The right ovary was twice as large as normal, and its Fallopian tube was dilated. The uterus, except that it was retroverted, was normal in its condition and position, and there were no adhesions about it. l^elvic peritonitis, from whatever cause arising, may excite tubular inflam- mation ; but probably the sequence of events is more often reversed, the peri- tonitis I'cing the consequence and not the cause of the inflammation of the tubes. Any sudden check to tlie menstrual flux is said to give rise to tubtil dihitation, as a consequence of tubal inflammation. Morgagni observed that the disease was commonly found in prostitutes, and thought that it explained the frequency of sterilitj^ in them. It is possible that the extension of gonor- rhoeal and leucorrhmal inflammation to the tubes and ovaries is the cause of the condition referred to by Morgagni as occuri-ing in women of the town. Other causes than those above enumerated also exist. I have seen pyo-sal- ])inx in a woman with a ])rocident and ulcerated womli, and a very large hydro-salpinx in one who died of extensive cancerous disease of the uterus. Drs. Wilks and Moxon have met with it in association with chancre in the vagina. Septic metritis and endometritis are also known causes. >Si/m2Jto7ns a.ncl Diagnosis.—There is generally a histoiy of long-standing pelvic or peri-uterine trouble, which probably has been referred to in- flammation of the pieritoneum or pelvic cellular tissue. Menstruation has probably been irregular for a long time; most pirobably pirofuse, at too fre- quent periods, and preceded and attended by considerable pain, rain, which is more or less constant, as in ovaritis, is greatly increased also by exertion; and is so severe during coitus that all attemp)ts at sexual intercourse cease. Thus in a double manner is sterility induced—by obstruction of the germ-duct and l)y cessation of sperm-injection. The synq)toms do not yield to treatment, either medicinal or mechanical; incisions, dilatations, cauterizations, and the rest of the gyiuecological manipulations of the os and cervix uteri being as unavailing as piessaries, leeches, and drugs. Digital examination, vaginal or rectal, Avill often discover a tender, more or less firmly fixed swelling at the situation of the ovary, or if the tubal artection be double, as it often is, a swelling may be felt on eacb side. Sometimes distinct fluc- tuation can be felt in the swelling. Mr. Lawson Tait tells us that the piecu- liar, sausage-like shape of the distended tube has frequently enaliled him to diagnose correctly the p)resence of hydro-saljunx or pyo-salpinx.^ On the other hand, the piost-mortem room often corroborates the teaching of Bernutz, that the p)eri-uterine tumors discovered liy vaginal examination, are trequently formed by the encysted inflammatory piroducts of the piclvic pieritoneum, even in cases in which the tubes are much distended. It may thus happen Diseases of Women, 4tli ed., pp. 61, 62, 63. * Ibid., p. 65.