91.5 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. for guarding against extravasation. If extravasation have not already- oc- curred, the external wound should he closed by sutures ; and in certain cases, before doing so, it will he possible to see the wounded viscus, and to draw it out through a large wound, stitch u]) the opening in it, and return it. Percy and M. Rubstral did this successfully. In exceptional cases it wouhl be justiliahle to enlarge the wound in the parietes for this purpose. AVheu inflammation sets in, the treatment should be that recominendcd for traumatic peritonitis. Penetrating Wounds of the Intestine.—The symptoms of wounded intestine are commonly more severe, and extravasation more frequent, in lesions of the small than in those of the large bowel. This is owing to the more delicate organization of the small bowel, to its more fluid contenfs, to its nearer situa- tion to the stomach and the point of entrance of such important secretions as the bile and pancreatic fluid, and to the fact that when the effusion takes place from an opening high up in the small bowel, even though the escape is entirely external, death must ensue from marasmus. The close connection of the duo- denum and upper end of the jejunum with the sympathetic ganglia and nerves, probably exi)lains why wounds of these parts of the gut are so com- monly attended with extreme anxiety and shock. hhymptoms.—The severity of the general synpitoms is not by any means always a measure of the extent of the injury, or of the gravity of the case. It is the same in injuries of the abdomen as in tliose of other regions : some per- sons suffer much more severely, and reaction in tlicm is much longer delaye<l than in others. As a general statement, however, the danger of the case will depend, first, iqion the occurrence or non-occurrence of extravasation of the intestinal contents into the abdominal cavity, and this again will depend greatly upon the size and character of the wound, a point to which reference lias already been fully made; secondly, upon the persistence of vomiting, which is an unfavorable condition, and one which, unless it can be controlled, is sure to lead to a fatal end ; thirdly, upon hemorrhage; and fourthly, upon the character of the supervening peritonitis. AV^hen there is no escape of chyle, feces, or fecal gas, through the external wound, both the local and general symptoms are equivocal. Terhaps the most characteristic signs are the peculiar griping pains in the alidonien, the urgent thirst, the desire for cool air, the nausea and vomiting, the bloody stools, an<l the tympanites. I>r. Gross lays great stress on this latter symptom, which he thinks has not been suttici- ently insisted upon by systematic writers, and which, from lieing often present when the other synqitoms are absent, may he regarded in some degree as pathognomonic. Jobert, too, thinks it the most valuable and ])Ositive sign of a wound of the intestine that we can have, except of course tlie egress of intestinal contents. Ilotli Dr. Gross and .lohert relate several instances in which the diagnosis was nunle by this synpitom alone. The tympanites occurs from a few minutes to several hours after the accident, and is always accompanied with tenderness on pressure and ditlicnlt respiration. I can nmself testify to the inq)ortance of this symptom as indicating the giving wa}^ of the bowel, especially of the ciecum or large intestine, in cases of intestinal obstruction; but at the same time it is often a most prominent symptom in acute peritonitis where the intestine is unruptured, and it niay also arise as a consequence of sinqde contusion, from intestinal palsy following on concussion of the ganglionic nerve-centres. Neither is tynqianites an acconi[)animent of all traumatic injuries of the intestine, for, as Dr. Gross remarks, it does not take place if the opeidng is very small, and if effusion is prevented by the jirotrusion of the mucous membrane, or otherwise. The <lis- charge of blood by the anus or by the mouth will vary according to the }iart