CATARACT. 247 (lays, a good spring mattress should be provided. The patient is put com- fortably in bed, in front of an unobstructed window, with a good light. There must be no bead-board, or the head of the patient must be put to the foot of the bed, so that the operator or assistant may stand behind and meet with no impediment. The bed must be so placed that a direct and clear view of the cornea, without any disturbing reflex, may be secured, and no hand or head must be allowed to come before it. I prefer to operate without dilatation of the pupil. A suitable stop-speculum, flxation forceps, a Graefe’s knife (Fig. Fig. 869. Fig. 871. Graefe’a cataract knives. Fig. 870. Graefe’a tortoise-shell spoon. Different forms of iris forceps. Fig. 872. Iris-scissors. 860), a cystotome with a hard-rubber or tortoise-shell spoon on one end (Fig. 870), a small curved pair of iris-forceps (Fig. 871), and a small pair of scissors (Fig. 872), curved on the flat, are the necessary instruments. Borated cotton, soft rags, and a bandage must be at hand. It is wise to have a strong- solution of boracic acid, into which all the instruments should be dipped, ami with which the eye should be well washed out. I liave never operated under the spray, and consider it a vapory reflnernent. All things being ready, I talk kindly and frankly with the patient, telling him what to do and what not to do. lie must promise to keep his mouth shut, not to hold his breath, and to listen to what the opei-ator says, doing quietly as he directs. If he will keep his wits about him, and not resist, all will go more safely and easily. I never risk changing the fixation forceps to other hands, but hold them exclusively myself. In extracting from the right eye, I stand or sit behind the recumbent patient’s head, making the section with rny right hand. Exchanging the knife for the iris-forceps, I draw tlie iris out, to be snipped otf by the assistant. That done, I use the cystotome, and then turning the spoon end, make gentle pressure at the lower sclero-corneal junction, to bring out the lens. To ope- rate on the left eye and still use my right hand, I sit on the side of the patient, directing him to put his left arm around me, so that I can get close in to his body. The assistant then stands behind his head, with the iris-forceps and scissors, draws out the iris with his left hand, and snips it with the right.