SUTURE OF THE INTESTINES. 941 Richerand, and others. The lips of the wound are held together, and pierced obliquely about two lines from the free edge ; the thread is drawn through, and the needle is then repassed in the same way, on the same side which it has just quitted, about two lines further on, and this is continued on from one side to the other till completion, just as a tailor bastes two pieces of cloth. Tlie intestine is then i-educed, and the two ends ot the thread fixed outside. These may be withdrawn some days after by cutting one end and pulling the other. Lombard successfully used Bertrandi’s suture in 1778. ]\lodijicatio7i of Bedard He arms the needle with two threads, one white and the other colored, so that when they require to be withdrawn the white thread has to be pulled at one end and the colored one at the other. d. M. Hippolite Nuncianti, of Naples, has suggested a suture, called the spiroidal^ whicli is nothing more than a variety of the continued. The serous surfaces of the lips of the wound are inverted and brought into contact. The suture is a single thread, whicli is carried along the wound alternately from left to right and from right to left in a spiral manner, and then by pulling the extremities of the thread, one at each angle of the wound, the lips of the wound are inverted and brought into contact. M. Nuncianti relates three successful cases. It will be seen that the object of the continued suture is to jiroduce absolute contact of the edges of the divided bowel in their entire extent, so as to prevent the danger of effusion. In doing this, however, we multiply and add to the danger of the wound and the risk of further ulceration. At least such is the argument raised by those who oppose the use of this suture. Many experiments and cases have been detailed to prove that it is not essential that absolute contact of every part of a wounded bowel should be secured in order to prevent elfusion. Mr. S. Cooper gives the following strong recom- mendation : “ Notwithstanding I have carefidly read all the arguments adduced by IMr. T ravers, in tiivor of stitching a divided bowel at as many points as possible, I still remain unconvinced of the advantage of such practice. If a case were to present itself to me .in which a bowel partly cut through protruded, I should api>ly only a single suture made with a small sewing needle and a piece of tine silk. If the bowel were com- pletely cut across, I should have no objection to attach its ends together by means of two or three stitches of the same kind. I coincide res))ecting the advantage of cutting off the ends of the ligature, instead of leaving them in the wound, as they act as extra- neous substances.” Before entering on our next consideration respqcting sutures, we must just tidvert to two proceedings, which have been generally proscribed. (1) Process of M. Littrc.— After gangrene, he i)ro[ioses to tie the inferior end of the intestine in order to effect its obliteration, and then to attach the upper end into the ring so as to establish an artificial anus which the patient is to retain the rest of liis life. Louis finds this process attended with ditficulty, viz., to know how to distinguish the upper from the lower portion of the alimentary canal. The operation is generally deprecated as establishing a disgusting inlirmity. (2) Process of Jjapeijronle.—He passes behind the division a double thre.ad through a fold ill the mesentery, and, after having pushed back the two ends of the intestine into the ring, makes use of the thread to prevent their entering the belly completely, by attaching it to the outside upon the dressing in any mode whatever. The result is an artificial anus, which may close up s(iontaneously, or by the aid of art. Scarpa objects to this proceeding, because the ligature, 1, presents an impediment to the gradual retraction of the parts ; 2, must soon cut through the mesentery, and may at the same time divide the vessels, causing fatal hemorrhage ; 3, may cause ulceration and perforation. His objections have not been confirmed by others, and the process itself has succeeded. Reybard relates a case where the colon protruded, and was wounded in two-thirds of its circumference. The intestine was replaced, unsewed, and was retained near the jiarietal wound by a suture through the mesentery ; the patient recovered with an artificial anus. When the intestinal tube is completely or nearly completely divided across, there are three chief methods devised for dealing with it. I. Union over a Foueion Body—It has been proposed and tried to unite the divided ends upon ti foreign body, and several varieties of this method exist.