BRONCIIOTOMY : LARYNGOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, ETC. 723 the descent of blood in operations about the nose, mouth, pharynx, and larynx, Trendelenburg* has devised an elastic tainpon-canula; the tracheal portion of the tube is encircled by an India-rubber jacket, into which air is forced from the exterior through a small tube along the side of the instrument. This has been improved by Semon,^ who has adapted the device to the Durham canula, concealing the supply-tube in the interior of the instrument (Fig. 1070), and thus facilitating its introduction. Care is requisite in inflating the tampon, as sudden, excessive pressure may ex- cite an asthmatic paroxysm.^ Fresh rubber may have to be stretched over the canula each time that it is used. After-treatment of Tracheotomy, ETC.—More or less paroxysmal cough usually follows the introduction of the canula, hut this generally subsides after a few minutes. Sometimes it is very slight indeed. The edges of the cuta- neous wound above and below the canula may be united by sutures, or may he approximated by adhesive strips. A plan pursued by Dr. Packard, of Phila- delphia, consists in fastening a longi- tudinal strip of perforated plaster on each side of the incision, and passing threads through a few of the project- ing perforations, then lacing the threads together so that the edges of the wound are not disturbed at all. According to my own experience, the wounds do best witliout any dressing beneath the neck-piece of the canula. The air of the room should be kept moist, and a thin section of moistened sponge may he placed over the oriflee of the tube, and he changed from time to time. The secretions become so dry, uidess some such precaution is taken, that the tube is liable to become clogged with thick, desiccated crusts. It is to ettect their ready riddance that a double canula is used, the inner one being removed and cleansed whenever respiration appears obstructed. IVlieu tlie disposition to the accumulation of these masses has ceased, a layer oj- two of moistened muslin-gauze may be substituted for tlie sponge. This is kept warm by the expiratory current of respiration, and thus the tempera- ture of tlie inspiratory current is somewhat modified in cool Aveather. The patient should be continuously watched for twenty-four hours or more, so as to insure proni[)t attention to the tube. Bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia sometimes follow any 0})eration upon the air-tube, and attention is requisite for several days to detect their initial synqfloms. Should the patient desire to s|)cak, it will l)e necessary for him or his attendant to occlude the external oriflee of the tube with the finger, so that the ex]flratory cun-ent of air shall pass by the side of the tube, and thus set tlie vocal bands in A'ibration. As long as the air escapes by the tube there will be no Amice, except in occasional instances of very capacious trachea. * Patients Avho are com- pelleil to wear the tube permanently are sometimes supplied Avith a special umer s})eaking-tube, provided Avith a valve at the external orifice Avliich ' Berliner klin. Wocli., No. 19, 1871. 2 Monatssclirif't fur Olirenlieilkumle u. s. w., No. G, 1879. 2 Mackenzie, op. oit. (Am. eil.), vol. i. ji. 37k Colien, Medical and Surgical Reporter, Marcli 9, 1878. Fig. 1070. Semen’s tarapon-canula. (Mackenzie.)