780 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. the base of tlie skull, ami direct pressure on the trachea or nerves by abscess, enlarged thymus, or bronchial glands, have been found after death to have been the cause of spasm of the glottis. Aural disease and nasal disease are occasional causes of spasm of the glottis both in the child and in the adult. In some subjects of locomotor ataxia, and in some subjects Avith epilepsy, spasms of the larynx, by some termed laryngeal crises and laryngeal vertigo^ occur as part of the natural history of the disease. Symptoms.—These comprise short series of ]iaroxysms of inspiratory stri- dor, lasting a few seconds at a time, and recurring at intervals of very varia- ble duration—sometimes associated with cough, sometimes producing uncon- sciousness, and sometimes followed by eclampsia. Diagnosis.—The absence of fever, of cough, and of impairment of voice, distinguishes spasm from croup, for which it is most likely to be mistaken. Soreness of the gums, a history of improper feeding, or the detection of other sources of irritation, local or constitutional, may be considered as confirmatory of the diagnosis. Occasionally, a laryngoscopic examination in a sensitive subject produces a spasm of the larynx; and under these conditions, its physical features can be recognized in spasmodic approximation of the vocal bands, or of the ventricular bands, or in spasmodic depression of the epiglot- tis. In the adult, such a spasm may be produced voluntaril}^ for purposes of laiyngoscojiic inspection of its mechanism. In a first paroxysm, laryngo- scopy is impracticable, but preparation being made beforehand, views of subsequent spasms may be caught in time. Laryngoscopic inspection, after relaxation of the spasm, will reveal the absence of local disease for which the atfection might be mistaken. Prognosis.—Liability to suffocative apnma during any individual spasm renders the prognosis doubtful to that extent; but relaxation almost always takes place, probably from the aiifesthetic effect of retained carbonic acid, often just as suffocation seems inevitable. The ultimate prognosis depends on the nature of the exciting cause and on its susceptibility to treatment. In slight cases, the tendency to spasm is usually overcome Avithin a tcAv days, and recurrences ma}^ be prevented or mitigated by the institution of appro- priate measures, topical and constitutional. The prognosis, as given ly some observers, is much more gloomy than is here indicated. Thus,^ Barthez and Rilliet had 8 deaths among 9 patients, Ilerard 6 out of 7, Keid 115 out of 289, Lorent 77 out of 200, and Salathe 2 out of 24. Eiihle considers the prognosis unfavorable on the whole. Wunderlich says that about one-third of all attacked, and the majority of those visited Avith severe attacks, die. Bouchut says that more than one-half, and Steiner is of the opinion that the great majority, die. Treatment.-—-Cold affusions, flagellations, the application of ammonia to the nose, holding the nose to force involuntary inspiration (Schietfer), and searching for an impacted epiglottis, are about all that can be done in the presence of an initial or unawaited spasm. For facilitating relaxation of the spasm in subse- quent })aroxysms, the Avarm bath may be kept prepared for immediate use, chloroform or amyl nitrite may be kept ready for use in inhalation ; and mor- phine for use hypodermically. Efforts should be instituted to remove the sources of reflex irritation, Avhich may reside in the mouth, larynx, stomach, intestines, anus, vagina, pre])uce, spinal column, or brain. Medicinally, assa- foetida, chloral, and the bromides may be indicated—or cod-liver oil, iodides, and calcium-cbloride—Avith such general hygienic and dietetic supervision as may best improve the general health. In cases of repeated threatening spasm in children or in adults, the only Steffen, Ziemssen’s Cyclop?edia, vol. vii., p. 1018. New York, 1876.