PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 913 the source of bleeding be eitlier the vena cava, aorta, oi- some large vascular surface such as a ruptured liver, it can hardly be expected that any good cau follow from an exploratory operation. I’robing and dilatation of the wound, except as part of some debnite operation, cannot be too strongly condemned. The general ti’eatment is simple; There should be complete abstinence fi’orn solid food, and for at least ten days or a fortnight after the injury only small quantities of nutritive fluids, given at definite intervals, should be allowed. Thirst may be slaked with small tVagments of ice. The bowels should be kept perfectly quiet, and if their- r-elief be demanded, this should Ire secured by enemata. Tiro recumbent position, with the knees propped np by a pillow, should be rigorously observed. Opium or rnor})bia should be given treely and often, so as to keep the mind and body gently under its influence; sub- cutaneous injections of morphia, or morphia suppositories, arc good forms for the administratioir of the drug, and serve, besides, to r-elieve sickness, which is so commonly a troublesome symptom. The state of the stomach is a rnor-e impoi'tant guide than the pulse. Travers says : “ The intimate connection and lively sympathy sulrsisting between the digestive and vascular systems r-ender the pulse an equivocal if not fallacious criterion of the morbid changes which are to ensire. But if the stomach is quiet we have little to fear. . . . How, then, shall the ii-ritation of this oi’gan be ap}ieased, which, if it continues, is a never-failing omen of destruction ‘1 I would answer by the reduction of the system; early, free, and repeated blood-letting, general and topical, is the main remedy upon Avhich I place reliance.’’^ In most of the instances of recovery after severe inflammation, blood-letting has been early and freely resorted to, and many high autliorities might lx- quoted in favor of this practice. Whilst sickness and intense pain continue, the state of the pulse need not, as Travers repeats, deter the surgeon from bleeding, as the ap[>rehension of reducing the ]>ower of the sj^stem below the means of reparation is futile. The general treatment of these injuries is con- cisely stated ]>y Dionis:^ “ Les saignees faites les unes pres des autres, la diete exacte, les fomentations emollientes sur le ventre, sont presque les seulcs ressources de I’art, soit pour prevenir ces symptomes, soit pour y remedier.’"^ Veuetrathig wounds of the stoniaeh vary in gravity according as there is or is not effusion of its contetits ; or, if effusion occurs, according as it takes jdace into the cavity of the abdomen or through tlie external wound. Cases have l)een recorded of death from wounds of the stomach unattended l)y effusion ; but, as a rule, such wounds ai-e the most likely to recover without peritonitis, and, except in the case of gunshot wounds, without fistula. In gunshot wounds, unattended at the time by effusion, a fistula may subsequently be formed by the separation of slouglis, after tlie adhesion of the stomach to the })arietes. Effusion is sometimes })reventcd, tliough the opening bo large, if tlie wound passes oblapiely through the different coats of the stomach; and immediate and incessant vomiting, by clearing tbe stomach of all its contents, sometimes obviates their escape througli the wound. It has occasionally laqipened that a small amount of material has escaped through the opening- in the stomach, and, having been circumscribed liy inflammatory adhesions, lias afterwards been discharged externally by means of siq)puration. When the contents of the stomach escape fbi-ough the external wound, there is the clearest possible evidence of the nature of the injury. Such a ' Op. cit., pp. 75, 75. 2 Cours d’Oper.itions de Oliirurgie, revue par ft. de La Faye, p. 84. 1751. ® [Bleedings practised one after another, ahsi>lnte diet, aiul emollient fomentations on the holly, are almost the only resources of onr art, whether to prevent these symptoms or to remedy them.] VOL. V.—