255 GLAUCOMA. At times enormous cups may be detected, with slight increase of tension, and at others extreme hardness and great damage to sight, with little or no pit. If the pressure has come on very slowly, the vision fails less rapidly. The damage to sight is due to the paralyzing effect of undue pressure on the conducting fibres of the optic nerve, their sudden flexure in the pit, and the impaired retinal blood su])ply. Mauthner denies this usual ex[)lanation, and insists tliat the functional failure is due to disease of the choroid affecting the rods and cones of the retina. Sometimes the natural brilliancy of the iris, the activity and average size of the pupil, and the out- ward appearance of the eye are so little clianged, that the increased liardness, cupping of the disk, and failure of vision, are the only positive symptoms. But these ai-e suflicient to settle the diagnosis. While glaucoma simplex may last for years and lead to total blindness without any inflammation at all, this painful complication is apt to occur, es})ecially in the advanced stages of the disease, when it adds to tlxe torment of the hopeless loss of sight. Acute glaucoma is always inflammatory, and often excessively painful, extinguisliing sight in a few hours or days. The epithelium of the cornea is altered, the aqueous turbid, and the vitreous cloudy and showing floating cor- puscles, so that the fundus cannot Ixe seen witli the ophthalmoscope. Intense episcleral injection, chernosis, puftiness of the lids, and excruciating pains in the eye, circurnorhital region, and head, with ])erhaps nausea and vomiting, make up the frightful picture. Of course the hall is intensely hard, witli in- sensibility of the cornea to light touches with a brush or prolie. Indeed, aneestliesia of the cornea is present in greater or less degree in all forms of glaucoma. It is (lue to paralysis of the sensory corneal nerves from jiressure. Acute glaucoma is sometimes })receded, for weeks or months, by prodromic symptoms, such as temporary blurring of vision with increase of tension, some vague feeling of discomfort or actual pain, and more or less injection. These significant symptoms intermit, leaving the sight better in the intervals. But they come oftener, last longer, leave the sight each time worse than Iiefore, and end at last in a destructive attack of acute inflammatiou. More rarely, the disease hursts out in all its violence without previous warning, in glaucoma fultiiinans. Chronic inflammatory glauooaia develops slowly like the sinqile variety, hut always with symptoms of vascular reaction. With the peculiar hardness of the eye, there are cupping of tlie disk and pulsation of the arteries, if the humors are clear enough to admitof ophthalmoscopic examination. Beginning in one eye, it finally attacks both, hut sometimes after a very long interval. Von Glraefe believed that the occurrence of the disease in the second eye was hastened by iridectomy in the first. I believe this to he a mere coincidence, hut the non-aftected eye should he constantly watched, so that an iridectomy may he resorted to at once, if the necessity should arise. The varicose, inosculating loops of bloodvessels around the cornea, are very striking in the inflammatory forms of glaucoma. The advanced stages of all the varieties, when sight is extinguished, the hall stony hard, the pupil widely dilated, the iris atrophied and reduced to a narrow rim, the sclera of a grayish, leaden color, with large loops of tortuous veins, loss of tactile feeling in the cornea, and often cataract, are called (jlaucouia ahsolatam. In this pitiable condition, re})eated and painful intra-ocular hemorrliages tilke }>lace, the insensible cornea may slough, and the eyes may he reduced by atrophy of the globe. In the absolute glaucoma which follows the simple variety, the deep excavation of the optic nerve and excessive tension may he the only means of distinguishing it from hopeless atrophy of the optic nerve.