SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OP THE PAROTID GLAND. 619 skin and making it coarse ami dark-colored before it gives way, and estab- lishing in time the broad-spreading, deep, characteristic, bleeding ulcer, with "hardened chain of glands and dilated veins, with facial paralysis and early embarrassment of deglutition and mastication, very plainly point to the hard and condensed form of carcinoma. Between these two extremes there will be found many diversities and combinations. Carcinomata of the soft form, myxomata, cysts, and cartilaginous tumors, occur mostly in young- persons; fibrous and sarcomatous growths before middle life; and hard cancers and epitheliomata in old age. Soft cancers, lymphomata, and sarcomata grow most quickly, and fatty, fibrous, and cartilaginous tumors most slowly. The shape, outline, and consistence of the tumor, the })resence or absence of lobulation, its rapidity and regularity of increase, its size, the state of the overlying skin, the interference of the tumor with function, together with the age and health of the patient, and possibly the famil}- history, will chiefly aid the surgeon in distinguishing the species of gi’owth with which he has to deal. tiimple hypertroploj of the parotid is very rare. The case related by Berard,^ and verified after the death of the young patient, and one or two others whose exact nature was not determined, make up the sum of such cases.^ The '•'•glandular parotid tumor’ is perhaps that with which the surgeon is best acquainted. Its pathology has been much debated. At one time it was thought to spi-ing from a lymphatic gland lying in contact with the parotid, at another to be always due to a growth of the parotid gland itself, or of its fibrous envelope.^ The common parotid tumor is fibrous or glan- dular for the most part, but has mixed with it cartilaginous masses and often cysts. It compresses the parotid more or less, and may occasion its atrophy and almost total absorption, so that when it is removed a deceptive appear- ance is produced of the parotid having been excised. These tumors often attain a great size, and are yet movable and but loosely connected. Tlieir surface is irregular, tuberous, lobed, or round, firm and hard at most points, but elastic at others. The skin, though marked by enlarged veins, is not involved or adherent. They lie below, in front of, and behind the ear, and grow slowly and perhaps capriciously, or remain stationary for years. They have no effect on the general health, and cause little pressure as a rule, though facial paralysis, impediment to the venous return from the head, and embar- rassment of sw-allowdng and chewing, have in rare cases been observed. Parotid tumors rarely consist of }>ure cartilage^ but the great bulk of tliem may be formed of that structure, and when soft and quick-growing, as they are in exceptional cases, they may recur after excision. They may be wholly buried in the gland, or be merely pressed into it and covered by the fascia, and the facial nerve may pass through them, be spread over them, or be firmly adherent to their under surface. They usually appear about middle life, and are generally innocent. The only effectual remedy for these growths is removal, and if they are growing, the sooner this is etfected the better, as wfith increased size comes augmented difficulty. The method of excising tbeni wdll be hereafter described. Lipomata are occasionally met w-ith, over, within, and lielow the parotid, and are recognized Ity their well-knowui characters. Nmvi also occur over the gland, and cysts (serous, sanguineous, sebaceous, and compound) form here as elsewhere, but do not demand special description.* * Tliese de Coiicours, 1841. 2 Vidal, Traite de I’atliologie Externe, tome iii. p. 669-70. * Berard, Tliese ; Baucliet, Mem. de la Soc. de Cliir., Juiii, 1856 ; Dolbeau, Memoire sur les enclioiidromes de la parotide, Uaz. lleLdom., 1858. * See I'aget, Lectures 011 Surgical Patliology, 3d edit. 1870.