709 GROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. Tlie removal of the pseudo-membrane probably produces some excoriation of epithelium, and it is in part due to the reparative process in that tissue that those discharges take place, which in desiccation form the coriaceous crusts winch so often accumulate shortly after the operation. Tbe inspira- tion of warm and moist air tends to retard this desiccation, and favors tbe removal of these products by cough. Cough is therefore a good prognostic. AVben the secretions accumulate in tlireatening quantity, it is better practice to attempt their mechanical removal by aspiration, than to trust to tbe un- certain influence of medicinal expectorants. Traumatic fever is usually manifested within a few hours after tbe operation, sometimes within an hour. Tbe greater tbe dys^nima and hemorrhage have been, the later, as a rule, the felirile reaction. In favoraljle cases this fever subsides within a day or two. Its persistence indicates some untavorable complication. Sometimes it is sufflciently violent to prove fatal within twenty-four hours. Should the respirations exceed forty in tbe minute during sleep, after subsidence of this fever, })neumonia is to be dreaded. A pulse exceeding 160 in the minute, a temperature exceeding 102° F., and a sudden rise in temperature, ai'e likewise indicative of im}iending complication. Diarrhoea and vomiting, a few hours after tbe operation, are to lie exj)ected in children to whom ineriective emetics have been given, as the re-establish- ment of respiration promotes the absorption of drugs already in the ali- mentary tract; hence tbe inference that such remedies should not be pushed, when once they have proved ineffective. The appetite is usually good for two or three days, but then it often becomes poor, usually in advance of some impending complication. Abundant nutri- tion is necessary. Every efliu’t should be made to give food by the mouth. If the effort to do so fail, food should be given by tlie stomach-tube and liy the rectum. Paralysis of the muscles of the palate, })barynx, and larynx, sometimes supervenes in diphtheria, so that milk and other fluids trickle out by the side of the tube, or enter the trachea and excite cough. Here, again, is an indication for using the stomach-tube and the enema-syringe. The care of the caimla is a point of gravest importance. As already mentioned, the tube is liable to become obstructed by expectorated products. If these are not removed, snttbeation will ensue. Hence a conq)eAnt attendant—by preference a judicious medical attendant, familiar with the character of tbe accidents which may follow traclieotomy—should be at tbe side of tbe })atient, or within immediate call, until all danger from this source is over. Should tlie tube become occluded, relief must be immediate. Such occlusion is indicated by restlessness of the patient, and by peculiar moist sounds in res- piration ; tlie inner tube should then be lemoved for cleansing, and the outer tube should be swabbed out with a feather or a soft mo}). These manipidations, as well as the replacement of the inner tube, usually excite cough and expec- toration of occluding products. Idrtiaf or conqilete occlusion of the outer orifice with tbe finger, during the explosive movements of the cough, renders that act more effective. Soft, antisejitic sponges or mojis should be at hand to catch any discharges which may present themselves externally, and to pre- vent their being sucked back into tbe canula. A shred of pseudo-membrane detained at the inner extremity of the tube, produces a characteristic flapping, at times attended with harsh and stridulous respiration ; cough is excite;!, and the membrane is usually ejected after some effort. Should this expulsion be retarded, the inner tube should be removed ; and if tbe membrane lie not then driven through the outer one, attem]its should be made to catch it with curved forceps. Should these fail, cough should be excited by passing a feather or delicate mo}) tbrongb tbe tube into tbe trachea. Should this too fail, a few minims of water should be passed, drop by drop, and the instilla-