INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 47 Diagnosis.—It is important to note, first, that Duret has shown that, owing to the dura mater being freely supplied with sensory nerves mainly spring- ing from the fifth pair, certain symptoms are occasionally present when this membrane is irritated, which are also those of lesions of the brain-substance. As a guide in the differential diagnosis, I would, after Stimson and Duret, give the following points :— A slight injury of the brain-cortex will probably evidence itself, primarily, by exaggerated functional activity of the part, viz., muscular twitching, wdiile from a destructive lesion, paralysis will result, and in both cases the abnormal symptoms will be on the side opposite to that of injury. Lesions of the dura mater are more apt to produce spasms and contractures of the voluntary muscles on the side of injury; “they tend to become more or less general- ized, and involve the neighboring muscular groups; and never have the localization and voluntary appearance of contractions induced Ijy lesions of the cortex;” finally, paralysis never occurs. From the frequent coexistence of contusion and laceration of the l)rain,^ which, as we shall see, present symptoms closely simulating those of large sulicranial effusions, a positive diagnosis is often impossible, especially in the exceptional cases just described. When, however, a patient receives a blow upon the head which stuns him, recovers consciousness for a varialde but distinct interval, then becomes gradually comatose, and has opposite henii- })legia, with dilated pupil and diminished temperature of the paralyzed side, the diagnosis is easy. J3ir Prescott llewett relates the following typical case:— A man came to St. George’s Hospital a few minutes after liaving been struck with a spade just over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. A compound fracture with depression of a small piece of the skull was detected, witli an entire absence of cerebral symptoms. In a short time, liowever, “the patient became heavy and stupid, and coma was gradually supervening, when Mr. Keate arrived and at once proceeded to remove the depressed bone; wliereupon a jet of blood spirted from a large branch of the middle meningeal artery, all the symptoms of compression were immediately relieved, and the patient recovered.”^ In every case of this kind, however obscure, if a distinct history of an interval of immunity from cerebral symptoms is obtained after a head injury, the presumption is tliat at least subcrauial hemorrhage is present. If with this, one pupil is dilated, and we have a bruise, or even the history of a l)low upon that side of the skull, the presumption almost amounts to a certainty. If now there are symptoms indicating involvement of the whole or a part of the motor area of the side of injury, with dilated pupil,^ we are warranted in affirming that there is an intracranial effusion of blood whose site we can deline with reasonable accuracy, provided that there is an entire absence of the symp- toms of brain contusion, such as tonic spasm of the muscles, extreme restless- ness, etc.'* The symptoms of concussion are immediate and transient, and therefore cannot be confounded with those of effusion of blood. Compression symptoms after a depressed fracture will be immediate, if due to the dis- jilaced bone ; if of later development, they are probably due to effused blood. When the compression symptoms come on very soon after the injury, there is either extensive detachment of the dura mater, or some of the large men- ingeal branches have given way, or both conditions coexist. When a menin- * Eriebsen (op. cit., vol. i. p. .OSS) reports two cases Where ruptures of the uieniiigeal artery resulted from most trivial injuries. ^ llewett, op. cit., vol. i. p. 576. 3 See section on cerebral localization. I am aware that many cases of brain contusion fail to give any such immediate or remote symptoms, hut certainly when these symptoms are jiresent, post-mortem examination will reveal contusion of the brain. When sucli symptoms are present, the accuracy of any diag- nosis of inti acranial extravasation cit blood is more than f|uestionable.