TUMORS OP THE SKULL. 153 the mass Avas found to have penetrated the bone, and to have spread out over the inner surface of the skull. There is little doubt, from the account given of the microscopic appearances, that this was also a spindle-celled sarcoma. In cases where the growth has invaded the interior of the cranium, A^arious brain symptoms may he produced, such as vertigo, vomiting, severe head- aclie, convulsions, paralysis, etc. The 'prognosis is bad in all cases. Death may occur from exhaustion, or ma}’ be consecpient upon the suppuration and breaking down of the groAvth; or from this condition pyemia may ensue, associated probably with thrombosis of the sinuses. In most cases, hoAvever, death is due either to brain complica- tions or to the development of metastatic masses in distant parts. The patient may survive for many years. Dr. Ogle^ records a case of Avhat Avas no doubt sarcoma of the skull that had perforated both tables, Avhere the patient lived for sixteen years after the first appearance of the tumor. He died of gan- grene of the lung, but during a greater part of the sixteen years had been troubled Avith epileptic attacks and other evidences of brain disturbance. In the matter of treatment^ little or nothing can be done. It is needless to observe that the practice adopted some years ago of recklessly trephining out portions of the morbid tissue, is Avorse than useless. Ileineke^ advises that in (juite recent cases, Avhen the tumor is small, and especially Avlien it is of periosteal origin, an atteinpt should be made to remoA’e the mass by cutting aAvay successive portions of the skull with a chisel. In this Avay he suggests that the morbid tissue may be quite removed, together Avith some of the adjacent healtliy bone. But, in actual fact, the nature of these tumors is seldom recognized until they have reached a fair size, and have involved an extent of the skullcap not anticipated by Heineke’s operation. jMoreover, tliey are very often multiple. It thus happens that in the majority of cases no operation is to be advised. Carcinoma oe the Skull.—Carcinoma of the cranial bonefe is altAmys second- aiy. (Heineke.) It is very certain that the majority of tlie cases of skull cancer recorded by the older authors, Avere cases of rajddly groAving sarcomata. The form of carcinoma that Avould involve these bones is the encephaloid, and it Avould appear that the growth seldom attains such dimensions as to form a manifest tumor. Should it form a distinct tumor, the course and symptoms Avould resemble those already detailed as pertaining to the sarcomata. Tlie progress of the disease, hoAvever, Avould be more rapid, and it would prove fatal at an earlier period. Angeioma of the Skull.—Angeiomata of the scalp may, by a process of extension, involve the subjacent cranial bones. A])art from this mode of origin, hoAvever, angeiomata may arise independently from these bones, and constitute distinct afiections. They may have tlieir origin from the surface of the bone, but more often Avould appear to be developed in the substance of the diploe. The affected liojie becomes* invaded with the vascular groAvth, and Avhen that growth has origin in the dijfioe, the cranial plates may become more or less expanded, and replaced by the morliid tissue. The bones most often affected are the frontal and parietal. At the seat of disease, tlie osseous tissue is seen to be occupied by irregular, cavernous spaces, supplied by a vast number of dilated vessels.^ The mischief is seldom of great extent, although Virchow records the case of an old Avoman, one of whose parietal bones Avas almost entirely transformed into a cavernous erectile tumor. If the mass is 1 British and Foreign Med.-Cliir. Rev., vol. xxxv. p. 498. 1865. * Lqq_ g_ g3_ 5 See Fig. 531, Vol. III., page 369, taken from Erichsen, to show an aneurism hy anastomosis of one of the j>arietal bones.