INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. 296 I used to prescribe a few years since, not infrequently increase the existing irritation ; for this reason I now use habitually, and with equally good results, the weaker preparation mentioned above. It is important to keep this oint- ment constantly applied to the affected parts, by means of such dressings as will secure this result. All crusts and sheets of exfoliated epidermis must invariably he removed before the ointment is applied, and if there are any points at which actual ulceration has taken place, these must be touched with nitrate of silver, either in its crystalline state or in the form of a strong solution. In very many cases, a single, superficial application of the caustic suffices to remove, in from twenty-four to forty-eiglit hours, every trace of ulceration. Deep cauterization aggravates the evil. As substitutes for the oil-of-cade mixture, either simple vaseline, or the henzoated oxide-of-zinc ointment, or Ilehra’s diachylon ointment, may be used.^ Finally, whatever preparation we may decide to use, the necessity of carefully cleansing the affected skin, at least once a day, with warm water and Castile soap, or tar soap, must not he forgotten ; and in drying the parts, care must he taken not to apply any more friction than is unavoidably neces- sary. Furthermore, it is a good plan to continue the local treatment for a few days after the parts present every appearance of having been restored to a normal condition. Simple Diffuse Inflammation.—When hot poultices have been kept for too long a time in contact with the auricle, a diffuse and painful inflamma- tion of the skin covering this part is excited. Precisely the same sort of inflammation is Occasionally observed in the course of an acute attack of purulent inflammation of the middle ear, after the discharge has begun to escape by way of the external auditory canal. A differential diagnosis between such a simple difliise inflammation and one of either eczematous or erysipelatous nature, is at times impossible. If it does not extend beyond the limits of the auricle, I think we may exclude erysipelas. If there are no evidences of eczema, either in the past history of the ear or in the pres- ence of a desquamative eruption in the vicinity of the inflamed part, we may exclude that disease, and so, by exclusion, reach the diagnosis of sinqile, dif- fuse inflammation. A moderate rise in temperature is possible in all these conditions : hence the thermometer does not afford us material assistance in reaching a correct diagnosis. Cooling applications constitute the chief and often the only remedy required. Perichondritis Chondromalacosis; Chondroynalada; Ilcema- toma Auris).—A perichondritis of the auricle may develop spontaneously through degenerative disease of the cartilaginous framework, or it may owe its origin purely to outside influences, such as a blow, a burn, or a frost-bite. In the latter case, we are unquestionably dealing with a genuine inflammation of the fibrous nourishing membrane which closely envelops the cartilage of the auricle, and which sends vascular shoots through it at numerous points. In the former case, the pathological processes may be more appropriately designated by the term chondromalacosis than by that of perichondritis, inas- much as softening and death of the cartilage precede and apparently give rise to the inflammatory changes in the overlying perichondrium. As a rule, it is only after the disease has been in progress for some time, that the surgeon has an opportunity of studying its manifestations. The picture presented to his eye is very commonly that of a red and tense swell- 1 For Hebra’s formula, see Vol. II. page 614, note.