INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE NECK. 622 case in hand. A shaped or J-shaped wound is often preferred. It should freely expose the mass, and should make ample provision for drainage. The tumor is best detached from below and behind, upwards and forwards, though IMalgaigne and others dissected it from above. It is in dealing with the back of the growth that difficulties chiefly arise. The surgeon must keep close to the tumor, and examine well every fibre befoi’e dividing it, scratching and tearing, rather than cutting. The digastric muscle may have to be severed, and each vessel opened must be at once secured. It has been found com- paratively easy to compress and tie the external carotid as it enters the tumor. It should be tied with a double ligature. Malgaigne shows how opening the mouth ti-eely, enlarges the space behind the angle of the jaw, and so facilitates the separation of the deeper portions of the growth. If too much traction be made, the internal carotid and jugular may be so displaced as to come within the field of operation. This should be carefully avoided. The large termi- nal branches of the extenial carotid will be cut as the upper end of the tumor is detached. The facial nerve cannot escape, unless the growth be so friable that it can be teased out. Ligature of the carotid, in order to induce atrophy of the parotid gland, has not been found to succeed, from the great freedom of anastomosis; and removal of the gland, by ligature and caustic has signally failed. Affections of the Submaxillary Gland. The submaxillary gland resembles the parotid in respect to the growths to which it is liable. It is inclosed in a very perfect fibrous capsule, derived from the cervical fascia. Its duct (“Wharton’s”) may be obstructed by cal- culi of the same chemical composition as those found in Steno’s duct; and in consecpience of inflammatory adhesions, the escape of saliva may be so im- peded, that a soft, fluctuating swelling forms in the floor of the mouth, due to its accumulation. This is not raiiula, but was long confused with it. If from any cause the secretion from the submaxillary duct does not get free vent, engorgement, and (if pi’olonged) permanent enlargement, of the gland may be caused. The presence of a concretion is best made out by placing one finger in the floor of tlie mouth and one below the jaw, so as to compress the duct between the fingers, and then rolling one finger on the other. Much swelling and uneasiness may arise from the presence of such a foreign body. In mumps, the submaxillary gland may participate, and may become swelled and painful. Inflammation of the submaxillary gland may follow the irritation induced by a piece of dead bone in its neighborhood, or by a carious tooth or violent stomatitis. It is, however, the lymphatic glands which abound in the neighborhood of the submaxillaiy, Avhich are most usually atiected by such causes, and which simulate an aflection of the submaxillary itself; and there is every reason to think that in not a few cases in ivhich grmvths have been supposed to be seated in the submaxillary gland, calling for its excision, it has been the lymphatic glands ivlucli have been really involved, and ivliich have been removed. Cysts, adenoma, enchondroma, fibroma, sarcoma, lymphoma, and sarco- ly mphoma have been occasionally met with in the submaxillary gland. Paget declares that enchondroma is not as common in the submaxillary as in the parotid, and in this he certainly expresses the opinion of most, if not of all, surgeons. Submaxillary growths may attain a considerable size, pressing upwards into the floor of the mouth, and so causing embarrassment of func- tion by their bulk; and even, in rare cases, compressing the pneumogastric