945 SUTUKE OF THE INTESTINES. M. Roux, ill endeavoring to remedy an intestiiio-vaginal tistula, opened the abdomen, divided the intestine in two places immediately above and below its [loiiit of adhesion to the vagina, as he tliought, and united the extremities by three points of suture according to Lembert’s method. The operation lasted one and one-quarter hours, and the patient died in thirty-eight hours. On dissection, it was found that the ileum had been divided two and a half inches above the artificial anus, but that, instead of dividing the small intestine below that point, tlie operator had severed the sigmoid flexure of the colon and sewed the small intestine to the end of it.^ d. Method of Gely (1844) This is a modification of Lembert’s method, to which M. Gely raises tlie following objections, viz., (o) that it does not securely close the wound unless the points of suture are tolerably near together; and {h) that the danger of inflammation is necessarily increased with the number of stitches. Gely remarks that a suture ought to possess the following points of recommendation : (1) to so thoroughly close the wound as to obviate all danger of either immediate or secondary effusion ; (2) to present such an arrangement that neither the knot nor any portion of it is visible on the peritoneal surface ; (3) to certainly pass into the intestine ; (4) to be easily executed and applicable in every case. The suture recommended may be practised with one or two needles, two prefer- ably ; they should be fine, but a little larger than the thread. One of them is inserted parallel with the wound, outside and a line or so behind one of the extremities of the wound, is carried for two or three lines into the cavity of the intestine, and is then brought out on the peritoneal surface again ; precisely the same is done with the op[>osite needle ; the threads are then crossed, the left needle is now introduced into the i)unc- ture, through which tlie right needle has just passed, and a stitch similar to the first made is taken with it; and a like stitch is made in a like manner with the right needle. As many stitches are thus made, parallel to each side of the wound, as its extent may require; and it then only remains to tie the threads and tighten the stitches sufliciently; this is accomplished by pulling the threads with dissecting forceps at each point where they cross the wound, at the same time inverting the lips of the wound, which soon become so perfectly coaptated tliat the thread is completely concealed between them ; linally, the extremities of the thread are knotted and cut close, and the knot is as eflec- tually concealed as the rest of the suture. When the needles are crossed, it is not indispensable to pass them exactly into the orilice which the ojiposite one has traversed; and it both facilitates and hastens the 0[>eration to tighten and knot the threads each time that they are crossed. An essential point is to make the corresponding stitches at the opjiosite sides of the wound of equal length, as otherwise the wound would be puckered. M. Gely’s experiments on animals are scarcely sufliciently numerous, but as far as they go they are favorable to this method. He has twice successfully a[>plied it in the human subject. A sailor received a wound in the left lumbar region, through which twenty-seven and a half inches of bowel with a portion of omentum protruded. After exposure and constriction by the abdominal parietes for two hours, two small wounds in the protruded gut were secured by tlie above suture, and the intestine returned. The patient recovered without any serious symptom in twenty days.'* In the second case, a small wound was inflicted on the in- testine during the operation for strangulated hernia. Gely secured the wound with a stitch of his suture, and returned the intestine. The patient recovered.^ e. Method of Arnussat (1834)—This surgeon has experimented on animals by placing in tlie intestine a narrow [liece of cork, expanded at its ends and narrowed at its centre, so as to present a central groove or furrow. The two ends of the intestine are then in- vaginated, so that both cover the cork, and are tied on it tightly with a strong thread ; and all that portion of intestine passing beyond the ligature is cut ofl’with scissors. Mai gaigne remarks that there is something astonishing in this proceeding, and that before trying it on the human subject it requires further meditation and experiment. • Reoiaeil de Mem. de Med., etc., tome xii. 2 Amiales de Cliir. Nos. 48, 49. ^ Prof. Emmort, of Berne (1802), lias proposed a plan wliicli combines the stitch of Lemhert with the looj) of Ledraii and the darning point of Bertrandi. lie considers that it obviates the chief objection to Lembert’s and Gely’s methods’ l)r. V6zien, of Paris (1871), employs the inter- rupted suture, knotted within, instead of on the outside of the hovvel. VOL. V.—GO