25 INJURIES OF THE SKULL, against the bony fragments, nature throws out osteophytic growths w’hich eventually—perhaps after years—set up serious ti’ouhle.^ For manifest reasons, punctured fractures of eveiy variety should at once he operated upon, eveiy fragment being carefully elevated or removed. In certain cases of extensive hatchet-wound, where the use of the trephine would result in the removal of too much of the calvaria, and Avhere conse- quently the case ivould otherwise have to he left chiefly to nature, Iley’s saw may be used to remove a strip of bone upon either side of the Avound.^ Fractures of the inner table, being unrecognizable by any definite symptom, are not usually detected except after death. The possibility of such an injury being caused by concentrated, violent force, sucli as a hloAV from a glancing bullet, from a pebble, etc., Avill in otherwise obscure cases, Avhen secondaiy symptoms of compression arise, Avariant the application of the trepliine at the point of impact^—a moAle of practice Avliich has occasionally proved suc- cessful.^ And noAv Avhat shall be done for depressed, simple fractures? This is the most difiicult to decide of all the questions relating to head surgery. In giving the advice I do, I fully feel the serious responsiliility that I am assuming. Still, I think that it is both theoretically correct, and, still better, Avarranted by experience. In simple depressed fracture, the chief removable primary danger is encepha- litis from the irritation of depressed fragments. In such cases if our medical measures fail, the patient can only die, but if he lives Avithout elevation of the depressed portion of hone, a miserable life is too often before him, Avith chronic cerebral irritation, epilepsy, fatuity, insanity, or even murderous impulses. What shall be done in these doubtful cases ? If the untoAvard results just described Avere very unusual, or if the fear expressed of converting a simple into a compound fracture, Avhiclqafter all is the only valid ground of objection against elevation of the bone, Avere Avell founded, there could 1)6 no question as to the advisability of non-inter- ference. But I contend that the dangers of a simple, depressed, comminuted fracture are greater tlian those which folloAV its conversion into a compound fracture. With the knowledge Avhich Ave noAv possess of the great proba- bility that sooner or later nearly every case of depressed skull-fracture Avill result in epilepsy, or in some form of secondary brain-disease, and since reliable statistics show that trephining itself is not a more dangerous opera- tion than those commonly resorted to in other affections, in order to avert possible dangers less grave than those entailed by deju’essed fragments of bone, I cannot but tliiidc that, Avith the restrictions Avhich I shall presently point out, it is our duty to advise elevation of a simple, depressed, commi- nuted fracture of the skull. I think that the opinion Avhich I have ex})ressed is steadily gaining favor among surgeons, and I feel emboldened to express my views by the published opinions of such distinguished and experienced operators as tlie late Prof. S. I). Gross, and Prof. Moses Gunn, of Chicago. This return to the practice of our ancestors is more an apparent than real departure from that of the present day. Most surgeons Avould, I presume, agree with Ilewett, Avhen he says that, Avhere the symptoms “ are urgent—if they indicate a decided pressure upon the brain—then operative interference becomes necessary.” I would simj)ly go one step further and say that to * Dudley reports a case of epilepsy supervening nine years after the fracture. Operation in this case jjroved curative. Sir A. Cooj)er (op. cit., p. 137) also relates an instructive case. 2 Hey, Practical Observations in Surgery, page li». Philadelphia, 180.5. ® Teevan sliows that fracture of the inner table always occurs opposite to the point struck. (Loc. cit.) “* !8ee page 12, supra, for a recovery occurring after trephining, in the practice of Prof. Hughes.