238 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. treatment slionld be kept up for months, to prevent relapses, and the atro- june ong'ht to be continued, once or twice a day, for several weeks after all local symptoms of inflammation have ceased. If extensive synechia results, and relapses follow, an irideetom}- will, probably, rescue the eye. Should the pupil be closed by a dense false mem- brane, and all communication between the chambers cut off, this is to be done at once. Still greater urgency is demanded if the periphery of the iris has begun to bulge forwards, the pupillary area being drawn back. In syphi- litic iritis, the constitutional symptoms, and the local inflammation, should be well controlled before doing an iridectomy, as otherwise plastic forma- tions Avill again close the pupil. In chronic forms of iritis, with acute relapses, an iridectomy is often a valuable antiphlogistic, and the only means of arresting the disease. But there is room for great discretion in deciding that such an emergency exists as requires iridectomy, and great skill is needed for the execution of so important an operation. People are always ready to attribute the most absurd and remote consequences to the direct action of a surgical operation, if any has ever been performed. Little need be added on the method of this operation,to what will be found under cataract and glaucoma. I much prefer tlie Giraefe to the spear knife, especially with a shallow anterior chamber. When the iris is free from all adhesions, and its tissuehiot rotten and friable from disease, the operation, after the incision, is very easy. When adhesions are conflned to the pupil, the rest of the iris being free, no ditflculty is usually experienced in seizing and drawing it out. But the entire aggluti- nation of the posterior surface of the iris to the lens capsule, makes a satisfac- tory iridectomy almost impossible. In such extreme cases the lens will need to be extracted, and afterwards the tough membrane, composed of iris, inflam- matory deposits, and lens capsule, should be freely incised wuth Wecker's jnnce-ciseaux} Ilopeless as seem some of these cases, they should not be given up till such thorough operations have been faithfully tried. Success some- times crowns a desperate efibrt. Tumors of the Iris.—Tumors, benignant as well as malignant, sometimes develop in the iris. The former, Avhen not too large, may be removed Avith the portion of iris in Avhich they groAV. The latter, of course, demand an enu- cleation of the ej^e, as the only hope for life. Among the former are rare der- moid groAvths, that take their origin from rudiments of skin, driA^en in and lodged on the iris by injuries. A more frequent development in the iris, alAARiys folioAving an injury, is a cyst. Plate XXVII., Fig. 2, represents such a groAvth. The eye had been injured by a small shot, Avhich lodged in the iris. After long years, the cj^st deAmloped and greAA^ to a degree that destroyed the sight, and caused great suffering. I enucleated the eye, and in making sections for microscopic examinations, the shot Avas cut through. The entire extent of tlie cyst Avail is seen in the illustration. In another case, in a boy of nine years, the cornea had been injured by the sharp corner of a piece of slate. A cyst afterAAurrds grcAV from the iris, and attained a large size. I removed it Avith the iris from Avhich it groAv, but in a feAA^ months another cyst shoAved itself. Tliis Avas also extracted in the same A\^ay, Avith permanent relief, and preservation of some sight. In a third case, I extracted a cyst that I had mistaken for a lens in its capsule, luxated into the anterior cham- ber. I made quite a free incision in the cornea, and, flnding my mistake, re- moved the cyst and iris as usually advised. The patient recovered promptly. Since then the cyst has been partially reproduced, but seems to liaA^e been obliterated by an attack of inflammation, and iioav appears cured, Avith some ■ See Fig. 873.