353 AFFECTIONS OF THE AUDITORY NERVE. ear, as when a gun or a cannon is fired, is a comparatively rare occurrence. No special treatment is required. The rupture usually heals promptly. If an acute inflammation follow the accident, it must be treated in precisely the same manner as if it had developed through the effects of a cold. Otalgia, that is, a pain in the ear not attributable to any discoverable lesion in either the middle or the external ear, is not an affection of common occurrence. I have seen only a few such cases, and in the majority of them I have found that the real cause of the pain Avas a decayed or ulcerated tooth. In these cases, the pain in the ear must be looked upon as a reflex nervous phenomenon. In a few instances I have knoAvn the pain to yield to quinine taken internally, and from this circumstance I have been disposed to consider the affection, in these cases, as a malarial neuralgia. It is probalile also that rheumatism is sometimes to blame for these attacks of pain in the ear. There are many other comparatively rare conditions and diseases of the ear, but as they are of minor iipportance, I must utilize the small space allotted to the subject of this article, in describing the nature and treatment of the more important affections of the organ. Affections of the Auditory Nerve. The knowledge Avhich Ave possess Avith regard to affections of the auditory nerve, is very scanty. This is due to various circumstances. In the first place, the auditory nerve, at all points throughout its course, is concealed from vieAV. While the retina, or terminal apparatus of the 0[)tic nerve, lies comparatively near the surface of the body, and may he examined thoroughly by direct inspection upon the living subject, the lamina basilaris, Avith its delicate superincumbent structures, is solidly encased in bone, far beyond the reach of sight, and difficult to expose to vieAV even in the cadaver. In the next place, Ave v^ery rarely have the good fortune to examine, after death, the condition of an auditory nerve that has been believed to be diseased a short time previously. A feAV facts, hoAvever, have been ascertained in this manner, and others still have been learned by post-mortem examinations of the ear in individuals with regard to Avhose aural history during life nothing Avliat- ever has been knOAvn. Thus, for example, evidences of disease, in the shape of minute extravasations of blood, have been found in the brain, in the neighborhood of the rhomboid fossa, from Avhich region the auditory nerve originates. New groAvths (syphilitic gummata, sarcomata, and carcinomata) involving the trunk of the auditory nerve, have been found at the base of the brain. Evidences of atrophy of the nerve-trunk have been obseiwed. Extravasations of blood have been found in different parts of the lal)yrinth —in the vestibule, in the semicircular canals, and in the cochlea. The ring- shaped elastic membrane, which surrounds the foot-plate of the stirrup, has been found converted into an immovable, calcareous or osseous plate. Essen- tially the same changes have been observed in the secondary tympanic membrane which spans the inner end of the niche called the round AvindoAV. These and other conditions have been oliserved after death, ljut unfortunately we can connect oidy a fcAV of them witli particular trains of symptoms observed during life. We are therefore obliged to infer what the condition of the auditory nerve is, in any given case, from the state in Avhieh Ave find the middle ear to be, from the manner in AAdiich the nerve performs its functions and in which the other organs lying near the ainlitory nerve perform theirs, from the presence or absence of certain constitutional symptoms, and finally from our knowledge of the lesions which may be found in the ainlitory VOL. V.—23