LNJDRIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE, CHEEKS, AND LIPS. BY ALFRED C. POST, M.D., LL.D., EMERITUS PROFESSOR OP CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF NEW Y'ORK, CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE NEW YORK HOSPITAL, ST. LUKE’S HOSPITAL, THE PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL, AND THE woman’s STATE HOSPITAL. Wounds of the Cheeks. « These are often attended with considerable hemorrhage, from division of branches of the facial and transverse facial arteries. There is, for the most part, no dilhcultj in securing these vessels by torsion or by ligature. When the wounds are deep and extensive, they should be accurately closed by tine sutures, as in this situation agglutinative plasters are entirely unreliable. When the wound involves the duct of Steno, tliere is danger that it will he followed by salivary fistula. This is to he guarded against by extending the wound freely into the buccal cavity, and by special care in the accurate adjust- ment of the edges of the divided skin. AVhen the facial nerve or its branches are divided, the muscles to which they are distributed will be paralyzed. It is important, in such cases, that the divided ends of the nerve should be brought in contact, and secured by fine sutures. If a twig of the tritacial nerve should lie included between the edges of the wound, it ma}^ become tlie seat of neuralgic pains, and in such cases the afiected portion of the cicatrix should be excised. Badly lacerated or contused wounds, and gunshot wounds, of the face, may lead to sloughing with considerable loss of substance, followed by cica- tricial contractions which distort the features and cause morbid adhesions of the lips and cheeks to the jaw-ljones. Great care should be taken, during the treatment of such wounds, to guard against these distortions and adliesions. In many cases, these unpleasant etfects cannot be altogether prevented, but in most instances they may lie suljsequently remedied, in part at least, by plastic operations. The face is often much disfigured by a deeply de- pressed cicatrix, occasioneil by adhesion of the skin to the periosteum or bone. I have succeeded in relieving this disfigurement by the very ingenious opera- tion introduced by Mr. AVm. Adams, of London.' Tliis operation consists in the free sulicutaneous division of the constricting band, folloAved by the elevation ot the cicatrix above the level of the surrounding integument, this ]iosition being maintained for three days by means of two harelip pins crossing each other at right angles. Poisoned avounds ot the face are not uncommon,.such as are inllicted by the stings of bees, Avasps, and hornets, and liy tlie bites of spiders. The ' British Med. .Toiirnal, Ajiril 29, 1876. (4W)