STRICTUEE OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 686 2 Op. cit., p. 34. The importance of larjngoscopic inspection is not to be underrated; with- out it, the risk is run of making a useless incision above the point of con- striction, as has been done more than once.^ Even when the larynx is seen to be the seat of constriction, exten- sive stricture of the trachea may remain unrevealed, as in a case of unavailing tracheotomy graphically described by Mr. Thornton.^ (J'ig- 1049.) When the air-tube has become perforated externally from destruction of cartilage, or from any other cause, digital or instrumental palpation can be employed to detect the seat and character of the stenosis. Tlie same manipulation is applicable after sur- gical incisions into the passage. Com- pression-stenosis from intra-thoracic tumor is diagnosticated chieliy Ijy aus- cultation and percussion of the thorax. Cough, dyspnoea, and aphonia, are ad- ditional symptoms, observed usually as the result of pressure upon the in- ferior laryngeal nerve. In some in- stances the dyspnoea is manifested wliolly, or in greater measure, in the expiratory phase of respiration, under which circumstance the phenomena may be incorrectly regarded as en- tirely asthmatic. Prognosis.—In extrinsic stricture, the prognosis depends entirely upon the prospect of relieving or curing the condition which causes the involution of the wall of the air-tuhe. It is un- favorable, therefore, in cases of aneu- rism of the aorta, tumors of the medi- astinum, irremediable hypertrophic disease of the thyroid gland, and cer- vical tumors insusceptible of extirpa- „ -y- j.* ■*' 1 * Sypnilitic cicatricial narrowing of tracliea. Ulcera- tlOll. J_j011^-C0IltlllIl6CL COmpi GSfolOll extended from vocal cords to lower end of stricture. may produce ausemia, and collapse of (After Thonuou.) the lung with hydrothorax.^ Even though the stricture be beyond relief, the higher up the point of compression, the better is the prognosis as to life whenever tracheotomy is practicable below the obstruction. Intrinsic stricture due to benign neoplasm is remediable by extirpation of the growth ; and the higher up it is located, the greater the opportunity for removal under laryngoscopy, and the better, therefore, the prognosis. The same remark is applicable to stenosis from a foreign l)ody. When beyond the reach of manipulation through the mouth, the question of a necessary laryn- 1 Diet, de Med. et de Cliir. Prat., t. xx. p. 293. Art. Larynx. Paris, 1875. ^ Moore, Dub. Jour. Med. Sci., November, 1876, p. 433. Fig. 1049.