114 MALFORMATIONS AND DISEASES OP THE HEAD. the scalp itself is excessively rare in these cases, no matter how extensive may be its separation from the deeper parts. Facial mdema may exist, but will subside when the pus has had vent. The 2^>^ognosis is often grave, and open to much conjecture. Death fre- quently occurs, and in the earlier stages is usually due either to purulent infection or to an extension of suppurative inflammation to the meninges of the brain. Death has also occurred from hemorrhage due to the opening of an artery by ulceration.^ If the disease is, on the other hand, protracted, the prolonged suppuration may cause a fatal issue. The duration and graveness of the case will depend much upon the original cause, the health of the patient, the extent of the suppuration, and the amount of sloughing; but, perhaps, the two most serious local conditions are imperfect discharge for the i)us and extensive stripping of the pericranium. The latter condition is noted in a great majority of the fatal cases. The diagnosis can be inferred from the above account. From simple ery- sipelas, cellulitis is distinguished by the absence of redness, the absence usually of gland enlargement, the greater degree of the local swelling, and tlie more severe symptoms. Its diagnosis from acute pericranitis, wdiich it may closely resemble, is detailed below. Treatment.—In addition to the general treatment of diftuse cellular inflam- matioifl the head should be shaved, and free incisions made the moment sup- puration is suspected, or before that occurrence if the swelling be consider- able or very tense. These incisions should be made at the most dependent spots possible, and as near to the attachment of the aponeurosis as the swell- ing extends. They should be so arranged as to avoid the seal}) arteries, and to meet this end some advise radial incisions. Drainage with drainage-tubes should then be carefully and fully carried out, and a })Oultice a})})lied to the entire scalp. All sloughs should be removed as soon as loose, and when they have all se}iarated the poultice may be discarded for lead and s}iirit lotion. Throughout the entire case the various sinuses should be well irri- gated with a weak carbolic solutio]i at least twice a day, and any new col- lection of })us at once evacuated. When there is any tendency to bagging, pressure with a IMartin’s elastic bandage often answers well, but its use re(}uires careful watching, as if a})}flied too tightly it may add to the slough- ing action. The drainage-tubes sliould be removed one by one as soon as the granulating cavity contracts around them, and then gentle }3ressure with a common bandage may be maintained for some time longer. Often these cases are very tedious, es}iecially when any bone mischief exists ; and some- times (though rarely) the sinuses refuse to heal in s})ite of the treatment just indicated, and in the absence of any s})ecial com})lication. In one such case that came under my notice, supijuration had continued eighteen months when the accidental discovery of a }>iece of indiedded drainage-tube, that was supposed to have been removed more than a year before, led to its almost immediate cessation, and to }jerfect cure. In another case, under my care at the London Hospital, healing was prevented by the formation beneath the aponeurosis of a vast amount of gelatinous, ill-formed connective tissue. On enlarging the sinuses and scraping out this jelly-like matter, a ra}:)id healing ensued. Many cases of }3rotracted sup}3uration are due to the natural and constant movement of the seal}) muscle, which prevents })erfect coa})tation of the surfaces, as })ointed out by Mr. Hilton.^ He readily cured several chronic cases of this character by simply keeping the muscle at rest by strap- ping the scalp. 1 Follin et Duplay, Traite Element, cle Path. Ext., tome iii. p. 549. 1869. 2 See Vol. II. p. 675. ’ For interesting accounts of these cases, see Mr. Hilton’s “Rest and Pain,” 3d ed., p. 139. 1880.