INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1078 remedies. The waters of Vichy and Ems are prescribed by those who prefer the alkaline diluents; of Carlsbad, Pullna, and Friederichshall, by those who advise the saline aperients. In either case, these waters are most advantage- ous when taken at their natural springs; the change of air, of mode of liv- ing, and of scene, all doubtless contribute to the improvement experienced. The solvent and preventive treatment of renal calculi will be more fully considered in the article on urinary calculus. During an attack of renal colic the treatment consists in the use of anodynes in large and repeated doses— sufficient to keep the pain in check. By allaying spasm they also facilitate the escape of the stone paiid for the same purpose the hot bath, hot opium or belladonna fomentations to the loin and abdomen, and chloroform and ether inhalations, are useful. Anodynes may be given as morphia injections, subcu- taneously ; or in the form of morphia, opium, or belladonna suppositories. Warm diluents and diuretic drinks are sometimes recommended with a view of urging or pressing on the calculus by the corresponding increased secre- tion of urine, and its accumulating weight behind the stone. The patient should he kept in a relaxed posture, with the shoulders and thighs raised, thereby to diminish as much as possible the pressure of the abdominal parietes and contents upon the kidney. (3) The surgical treatment of renal calculus will be hereafter considered under the lieads of ISTephrotomy, Nephrolithotomy, and Nephrectomy. Nephrotomy, for a renal calculus which has given rise to abscess or fistula in the loin, or to a swelling which can be clearly detected through the parietes, is as old as the teaching of Hippocrates; but nephrolithotomy, for cases in which the symptoms of stone are subjective, and evinced only by pain, renal colic, and changes in the urine, is quite a modern procedure; and though now proved to be successful, was, till 1880, all but universally condemned. Nephrectomy, though of some years older date than nephrolithotomy, is also quite a recent innovation in surgical practice. Tuberculous and Scrofulous Kidney.—Two forms of tubercle (so called) of the kidney are met with, (1) disseminated tuberculosis, and (2) strumous pyelitis, or scrofulous pyelo-nephritis. These diseases are more common in children and below the age of puberty than in adult life; but they may occur, and more especially the “scrofulous” form of the affection, at any age. Men are said to be more frequently affected than women. Both kidneys are rarely involved to an equal degree, and the “ scrofulous” form often affects one kidney only. (1) In tuberculous disease^ minute miliary nodules are scattered through the kidney, which is affected as part of a general constitutional malady in which otlier, it may be several other, organs are involved as well. These miliary nodules begin as gray granulations around the terminal branches of the arte- rioles which lie between the pyramids of Ferreiii. These granulations infil- trate the vascular and connective tissues, and flatten the uriniferous tubes between which they occur. They are seen on the surface as small white dots, and they extend along the pyramids of the medulla, having a great tendency to s]»read downwards along the submucous connective tissue to the ureter and bladder, and to involve also the vesicuhe seminales, prostate, and testes. (2) In scrofulous disease of the kidney—called also strumous 2)yelitis, scrofu- lous g^yclo-neyhritis^ and the infummatory form of tubercular disease of the kid- ney—masses of cheesy infiltration commence in the substance of the renal papillfe, and extend deeply into the kidney as well as downwards to the submucous tissue in the renal pelvis. Whether these cheesy masses are due to retrograde changes in confluent groups of miliary tubercles, or are the result of degeneration of the products of ordinary inflammation, pathologists