INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. 831 two forms of the affection; in one, the breast is large and firm, and the skin over it tense and smooth; in the other, the breast is pendulous, and is flat and flaccid. Dr. Guido Banti* has written a most instructive paper on this subject. After referring to the observations of Birkett, Velpeau, Virchow, Klebs, Birch, and others, he relates several cases, and specially describes and figures a remarkable instance of hypertrophy of both mammae in a girl. Both breasts were removed by Dr. Colzi, and the patient recovered. A careful account of the examination of the glands after their removal is also given. As a result of his investigations. Dr. Banti gives the following conclusions;— (1) The diseased state, called hypertrophy of the mamniie, exists in two distinct forms. (2) One form constitutes false hypertrophy, which is divisible into three varieties. 13) The other form is a hyperplasia of all the structures of the breast, of the glandular as well as of the connective tissue. For this reason it ought to be termed o ^ o true hypertrophy. (4) The true hypertrophy and the false are not stages of the same malady, but are entirely different diseases. Hypertrophy of the breast does not readily yield to treatment, and should attention to the uterine functions and the general liealth, together with support and careful compression of the organs, fail in giving relief, the removal of one or both of them may be resorted to, but only if the condition is causing serious distress. When both breasts have been affected, tlie removal of one of them has, in one or two instances, been followed by a diminution in the size of the other. Inflammatory Affections of the Breast. Inflammation may originate, as a result of injury or other causes, in the tissues over or near the breasts, without involving them, and this iniiainma- tion may or may not be followed by sup[)uration. In such cases, there is an absence of the cliaracteristic induration of the gland structure, and the in- flammation recpiires the ordinary treatment proper to its origin and nature. Mammitis and Mammary Abscess.—Inflammation of the mamnife them- selves occurs at all periods of life, and may be the result of injuries, such as bruises, wounds, or lodgment of foreign bodies; of sympathetic irritation ; of local irritation in connection with the nipple, soft parts over or near the breast, or axillary glands; or of a strumous or weak constitution ; but much the most frequent origin is in connection with lactation. In infants, this inflammation is met with soon after birth, and occasionally suj)puration takes place, but this is exceptional; it occasionally occurs in young girls; sometimes during pregnancy; but in the large majority of cases in women who have borne a child, and most frequently in those who have been con- fined with their first or second child. Birkett^ states that out of 118 cases of either inflammation or abscess, more than one-half had given Inrth to a first or second child, and nearly one-third were prirnipane; he also observed that out of 116 cases the inflammation commenced during the first month after parturition in half of them, and in a large proportion of these during the first week. Bryant^ relates that out of 102 cases, 70 occurred during lacta- tion, two during pregnancy, and 21 in patients who were neither suckling nor pregnant; he also mentions that the right breast is more frequently affected tlian the left, in the proportion of five to three. Defects or affections of the nipple, obstruction of one or more of the ducts, sudden stoppage of • Arcliivio della Scuola d’Aiiatomia Patologica di Firenze, tomo ii. * Op. cit. 3 Manual for the Practice of Surgery.