MALIGNANT TUMORS. 841 with discharge from the nipple. According to Gross, in one of every seven cases there is discharge from the nipple, and there is a tendency to fungate in the same proportion. Treatment.—If causing irritation or much mental distress, or if increasing rapidly in size, excision of the tumor alone is the best treatment. Pressure by means of pads, and the application of plasters, have been employed, but without much good resulting; and, as these tumors are movable, it is very difficult to apply direct and continuous pressure to them. If the growth is large and the breast structure atrophied, excision of the entire gland and tumor will be the most satisfactoiy proceeding. Although these tumors may be considered, as a rule, innocent in their nature, they do occasionally soften and enlarge, and simulate malignant growths in their progress. It has also been occasionally observed, that, after their removal, a secondary growth with malignant tendencies has been developed in the situation of the original tumor. Idle most probable explanation of the latter cases is that referred to by Paget, who considers that these secondary tumors are reallj’’ cancers developed independently, and in some instances as the result of the local irri- tation produced in connection with the original growth. The pure adenoma occasionally recurs after operation, but usually locally, as in the neigliboring glands. Secondary growths must be removed, should the condition of the patient warrant an operation. II. Malignant Tu.moks. Sarcomata.—Although there is a ditterenco of opinion as to tlie degree of malignancy of these tumors, the most recent investigations tend to iirove that many of them are as serious in their characteristics as the true cancers; and tliat although others are not so serious in their nature, they can scai’cely be termed benign. The whole subject of these tumors, as they occur in tlie breast, is in a somewhat unsettled state, but Dr. S. W. Gross has brought to- gether many interesting and important facts, which will assist in clearing up the matter, and in placing our knowledge on a more practical basis. The sai’comata Avhieh affect the breast may I)e solid or cystic, and tlieir structure may be roniul-celled, sjnntlle-cdled., or (jiant-cellal. In some instances —about one-third of all sarcomata, according to Gross, and more especially in the spindle-celled—ghindular or adenoi<l structure exists. The inter-cellular substance in the Auirious sarcomata diffei's, and leads to variations in the pathology and consistence of these growths. Fatty, cystoid, calcareous, and other changes likewise take place, and, like other tumors, they are also liable to l)ecome inflamed and to su])purate. The spindle-celled variety is by far tlie most common. Out of GO cases of sarcoma of the breast collected by Gross, 45 were spindle-celled; and out of 16 cases Avhich came under the notice of the same surgeon, II were of this character. According to the same author, six-tenths of all sarcomata in this region are cystic, and in one out of every seven of these tliere is dis- charge from the ni] )[)le. Harcomata are, in the large majority of cases, single in the first instance, and they .are usually of more rapid growth than flbroniata; but there appears to be considerable diversity in this respect, as some tumors have lieen known to remain of small size for several years, Avhile in other instances a tumor has grown to the weight of several pounds in a tew months. It has also been observed that these tumors are sometimes subject to a sudden and rapid increase; and Gross notices the fact that during the active growth of sar- comata, there may be elevation of the general temperature.