585 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. head should be fixed in such a position as may promote the approximation of the lips of the wound, and relieve tension, while not interfering with the escape of discharges. Tiiere are various methods of accomplishing this. Put- ting a night-cap on the head, and attaching it to a body band by tapes, while the head and shoulders are raised, serves the purpose in most cases. All speak- ing and movement, as in swallowing, should as much as possible be avoided, and watchful nursing is essential, especially in suicidal cases. Sutures may be used to unite wounds of the oesophagus, if positiori fail to approximate the divided parts. Drainage must of course, in all cases, l)e carefully secured. In the early stages of treatment, deglutition should be avoided as much as possible, and for this purpose we must resort to the use of carefully prepared enemata. A tube may be passed into the stomach either l>y the wound or by the mouth, but as soon as cicatrization has begun the former metliod must be avoided. In any case it is bad practice to leave the tube in place, and if its passage cause much inconvenience, enemata must alone be relied on. Legouest suggests a method of passing the cesophageal tube by first introducing a small urethral bougie by the wound into the lower end of the oesophagus, and attaching to its upper extremity, by means of a small sound passed from the buccal cavity downwards to the wound, a long thread which is brought out by the mouth, and then using the thread and bougie as a conductor for the oesophageal tube. During cicatrization, the calibre of the canal inust be retained by a careful and judicious use of bougies. Thirst is a serious annoyance in such cases. Small bits of ice put on the tongue relieve it, but have the disadvantage of causing frequent acts of swallowing. As soon as healing has well advanced, unirritating fluid food may be allowed. If there be much exhaustion, milk, broths, and other forms of concentrated nourishment must be administered. The air respired should be moderately warm and moist, without being exhausting. A temperature of between 70° and 80° Fahr. suits best. The entrance of foreign bodies must be prevented by covering the wound with moistened muslin. If dyspiuea occur, its exact cause must be souglit for and remedied. The base of the lungs should be frequently and minutely examined. By tem[>orarily closing the wound, the patient will be enal>led to eject fluid which he cannot otherwise get rid of. Inflammation in any part of the air-passages, lungs, or pleurfe, must be constantly watched for and promptly treated. It ma}'^ come on very insidiously and spread rapidly. (Edema of the glottis is a most serious coni}»lication. It may be dealt with by the usual remedies, or by introducing one of the tubes described by Dr. McEwen. The healing of the wound must be supervised, and exuberant granulations, if they occasion obstruction, repressed by ap})ropriate means. Restlessness and excitement may require to be combated by the subcutaneous use of morphia. Tracheotomy low down in the tube may be I’easonably considered when the wound is more than usuallj' diflicult to manage, especially if signs of obstruction follow its closure. The I’est thus gained will promote the healing of the wound, and the dilatation of a contraction following the cicatrization will be better managed from below than by passing instruments from the mouth. In some cases the laryngoscope may prove servicealde in dealing with such contractions. Abscesses, if they form, must be ettectually drained. Schrbtter proposes to render the larynx insensible by the application of a saturated solution of acetate of morj)bia, after having first increased the capability of absorption of the membrane l)y touching it repeatedly with pure chloroform. This is done the night before an o[)eration is to be per- formed. An hour should elapse between the a}iplications of the chloroform and the morphia.