596 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK. ill these glauds is distinguished from lympho-sarconia and other tumors. The photograph here copied (Fig. 1014) was taken from a cast made from a case of malignant disease after death. It shows the terrible destruction which such Fig. 1014. Fig. 1015. Malignant tumor of neck. Malignant tumor of neck. an atfection mai^ occasion before death relieves the sufferer. The other (Fig. 1015) was taken shortly before death from a patient under my care, in whom the nature of the atfection was recognized when the growth was a small, hard, deep-set tumor, only four months before it attained the size represented. Lymphoma lias attracted much attention of late 3’ears. It is not uncommon in the neck, and is difficult or impossible to distinguish, in its early stages, from mere hypertrophy of glands. In minute structure this tumor resembles lymphatic-gland tissue, but its constituents vary considerably in different examples, the cells and the containing basis-fibre bearing different propor- tions to one another, and so causing the consistenci’ of these tumors to differ. When the cell-elements greatly predominate, the growth is not only less coherent and softer, but it becomes very malignant, infecting neighboring structures, and many and distant parts, contaminating the whole system, causing a general and characteristic anfemia, and killing miserably. This general form, this “ lymphoid cancer” as it has been termed, is chiefly known in England as “ Hodgkin’s Disease,”' and abroad as lympho-sarcoma (Virchow) and lymphadenoma (Cornil and Ranvier). The simple or local form may involve one gland or many, and ma^’be con- fined to the neck. It may attain a great size, and occasion considerable pres- sure. It is firm, fleshy, movable, indolent, and loosely set in the part, and the skin over it is unchanged. This growth may begin on one side of the neck, most frequently at the^angle of the jaw, or by the edge of the sterno-mastoid. It may progress very slowly, and may even remain stationary for a time. ' See Medico-Cbir. Traus., vol. xvii. 1832.