329 DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. stream of tepid water into the mouth of the sinus. Every mass of granula- tion-tissue that springs from any part of the external auditory canal should lead us to search, in the immediate vicinity, for the presence of a sinus or of a spot of carious hone. Sometimes the sinus begins at the very edge of such a granulation growth. Perhaps ecpially often the opening will be found in the very centre of the mass. Our attention should next be directed to the drum-membrane. Every part of it should be laid hare, so that we may feel sure that we know, from actual inspection, what is its condition. A perforation is rarely lacking. If it he ({uite small, and especially if the memhrana tympani at this point be decidedly thicker than normal, we may fail to discover the existence of the perforation by simple inspection. We must then take advantage of Valsalva’s experiment, and watch the ettects of it upon the memhrana tympani. As the compressed air finds a way of escape through the perforation in the drum- membrane, it is very likely to force out into the meatus a certain amount of the fluid contents of the typanum. The locality occupied by the perforation is thus quickly revealed. In cases of this kind, we can only infer what the condition of the middle ear is from the appearance of the neighboring parts, and from a consideration of the data previously obtained. In cases in which the perforation is larger, we may obtain a direct view of the deeper parts, and if the perforation is quite large, we may be able to form a fairly accurate judgment with regard to the condition of the middle ear. Direct inspection, however, must always be supplemented by exploration with the prolie. In this way we can learn the thickness and consistency of the tympanic mucous membrane, and the presence or absence of masses of epithelium and cheesy pus (the so-called cholesteatomata), especially when they lie concealed from view in the upper and posterior portions of the drum-cavity or in the antrum. In this way, also, polypoid growths are discovered at ])oints which, to the unaided eye, seem to be covered only with a smooth though perhaps swollen mucous membrane. Bone ulcers, which are by no means rare lesions in the middle ear, can only be discovered by means of the probe. The examination is now complete. In tlie great majority of cases, we know exactly what is the condition of the external auditory canal and mem- brana tympani, and we possess sutficient adtlitional data to enable us to form a fairly aecurate opinion with regard to the condition of the middle ear. In a few cases, the auditory canal is found to be in such a swollen condition that we are unable to gain a view of either tlie drum-membrane or the inner half of tlie meatus. Under these circumstances, we must carefully weigh the other objective phenomena, and the degree of impairment of the hearing in con- nection with the history of the case. The beginner may find it a very diffi- cult task to clear up the pathology of these a[»])arently obscure cases, but to the expert it will be comparatively easy to arrive at the truth. In our first attenqit, we are obliged to go jiatiently through the process of anal}"zing each syrhptom, or lesion, in its relations to the others and to the history of the case. With each new case, however, this analytical process of reasoning will be found to consume less and less time, until, finally, we cease to be conscious of any such conqilicated process of reasoning, and arrive, as it were intuitively, at a correct judgment with I’egard to the nature of the malady. As I cannot hope, in a short article such as this, to clear iq> all the ditficulties that sur- round the task of making a correct diagnosis, I will take up, in turn, the more important symptoms and lesions, and will endeavor to show the signifi- cance of each. When pain occurs in the course of a chronic discharge from the ear, we may look for its source in a variety of places. It may be due, for example, to the development of a furuncle in the walls of the external auditory canal.