INJURIES OF THE SKULL. In fractures by irradiation, that is, those spreading from a fractured vault, there are always marked symptoms of cerebral concussion ; nsiially nasal, aural, pharyngeal, or orbital hemorrhages, according to the region injured ; and, if one of the middle fossie be broken, probably a watery discharge from the ear, either from the outset or following copious and prolonged hemorrhage. Pa- ralysis of one or more cranial nerves-—such as the first, if the anterior fossa be involved, or the seventh, if the middle fossa be broken—are also probable symptoms. All these conditions are usually complicated with decided cerebral contusion, which is followed by encephalitis, and tlie case not unusually terminates in hemijilegia and death l^y respiratory failure. (1) Fractures of the Anterior Fossce.-—Tliere is usually either a wound or a contusion of the facial or frontal i-egion, with fracture of the frontal bone; prolonged, copious epistaxis,ecchymosisof the eyelids—especially,and first, the lower—with effusion of blood beneath tlie ocular conjunctiva. Either the olfactory, optic, or third pair of nerves may be paralyzed. Wateiy nasal discharge may occur. In very exceptional cases cerebral substance may escape by the nares. (2) Fractures of the 31uhtle Fossae.—There is apt to be a contusion or wound of the middle zone of the cranium, usually in the temporo-parietal region; or a blow across the face or neck may be the cause of fracture. Aural hemorrhage, free and prolonged, usually takes jfiace, followed by watery dis- charge, and very rarely by an escape of cereliral substance. Paralysis of the facial or auditory, or loss of the function of botli of these nerves, probably occurs either primarily, or more commonly ivitbin a few days of the injury. (3) Fractures of the Posterior Fossee.—These fractures ordinarily result from falls upon the occiput, and are often complicated with fractures of the apex of tlie petrous bone. The symptoms are apt, therefore, to be combined with those of fracture of the middle fossie. In occipital fractures, severe ]>ha- ryngeal hemorrhage is ipore a})t to occur than in injuries of other portions of the base, from fearing of the greater vessels which are so closely related to the roof of the pharynx. Occasionally, as a sc([uence of fracture of the petrous bone laying open the tympanum, a painless, smooth, circumscribed, elastic, non-tluctuating, resonant tumor forms in the temporal or mastoid region; this is a pneuma- tocele. The air may sometimes be made to escape with a hissing sound. Pressure will cause the total or partial disappearance of the tumor, which at once reap})cars when the pressure is removed. Usually confined beneath the pericranium, this memlirane may give way, when the air becomes more or less ditfused throughout tlie envii-oning connective tissue. Firm pressure is the only appro})riate treatment, after a preliminary puncture with a fine trocar. Incision, excision of the sac, and the introduction of a seton, have been followed by serious, if not fatal, symptoias. Prognosis.—Do basal fractures ninte, and what are the chances of recovery? If the patient live long enough, union may undoubtedly occur. There is an admirable specimen of this in the Pennsylvania Hospital Museum,Hnd Mr. Henry Lee gives an account and drawing of another exa-mple in the Medical Times and Gazette for 1852. Even months or years after a fracture of •the base, no attempt at union may lie found, while in other cases the union may be merely by fibrous ti.ssue, or partly a tbin plate of bone, partly mem- brane. In some cases exuberant callus forms, consisting chiefly of porous * There is also a well-marked specimen ol a very extensive fracture of the vault and base, in the Wood Museum, Bellevue Hospital, New York. Decided union has taken place, the patient dying long after the injury, from some other aUeotion.