907 PENETRATING WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. should be securely tksteued and cut otf short. The gut is then to be returned, and the external wound to be treated as if the injury had been a “simple penetrating wound.” If the wound be incised, and especially if not quite a small one, it must be stitched up with one of the various kinds of suture to be presently described, preferably the glover’s,^ the spiral, Lembert’s,^ or Gely’s,* before the bowel is returned. If the bowel be divided completely across, so that the incision involves, it may be, even the mesentery, the ends should either be stitched together in part of their cireuniferenee, and to the edges of the parietal wound in the remaining part, after the bulk of the pro- truded bowel has been returned ; or the edges of the divided gut should be accurately united all around with their peritoneal surlaces in contact, and then returned to the abdomen, and the wound in the parietes closed in the usual way. By the former method a false anus will result; there are a variety of plans for executing the second. The former should bo ado[)ted if, owing to the age or feeble condition of the patient, or the contused state of tlie edges of the wound, there be reason to fear that adhesive inliammation will not take place; but if the wound be an incised one, if the })atient be in fairly good health, and further, if the wound involve the upper part of the intestine, so that there would be fear of death from inanition if a false anus were formed, the complete suture should be employed, the bowel returned, and the exter- nal wound closed. If the protruded wounded bowel be also gangrenous, or if the contused or lacerated character of the wound make it jirobable that a slough will follow, either a false anus should be allowed to form, or, what would be still better when the circumstances of the case ])ermitted it, ente- rectomy and the union of the divided ends by Lembert’s or Jobert’s suture^ should be ])ractised. Etfusion into the abdominal cavity rarely follows a wound of the protruded stomach., as the contents easily esca[)e outwards; the act of vomiting expels them through the wound as well as through the oesophagus. If the wound be small, the [irolapscd portion of the stomach may be left in the external wound, with the prospect that the gastric wound will close and lie comjiletely retracted within the abdomen, and that subsequently the external wound also will close. If the wound in tlie stomach be large, it should be closed liy suture, but in spite of sutures the healing may be hindered by a listulous opening. If the edges of the wmimd in the stomach are bruised or lacerated, it will be advisable to retain them by a suture to the edge of the parietal wound ; a listulous o}>ening will in such a case result, at any rate for a time, but there is generally a tendency for the stomach’s walls to be dragged back into the belly, when complete and permanent closure takes place. It does not follow, because a cure of a wounded gut or stomach has been obtained with the attendant disadvantage of an abnormal opening, that a }iermancnt fistula will remain. There are many cases on record in which, after several months, the opening has (piite closed. Again, it does not follow, if the Avounded bowel or stomach be. left in the external wound there to undergo repair witliout the aid of sutures, that an abnormal anus will ensue even tenqiorarily, as union by adhesive inllamniation occurs at once in some such cases. In no instance in which a wounded viscus has been treated by sutures, and returned into the abdominal cavity, should an attempt be made by means of a suture to retain it near the wound in the abdominal wall ; but the external wound should be closed, and the case treated precisely as one of “simple penetrating wound.” Terlaiiuttions.—Tims it will be seen that protruded, wounded intestine or stomach may heal after being returned to the abdominal cavity, and that the ' Vol. II., ]iage 21), Fig. 211, supra. See Vol. II., page 195, Fig. 284, supra. * See Vol. II., page 195, Figs. 285-2s7, siijira. See Vol. II., page 19(i, Figs. 289, 290, siijira.