991 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. Operator or reporter. Result. Reference. Mathis, Recovery, Otis, Med. and Surg. Hist., etc.. Second Surg. Vol. Iliibner, do. Ibid. [p. 59. Schwabe, do. Ibid. Cayroche, do. Ibid. Dr. L do. Ibid. Bell, do. Ibid. Gliick, Death, Ibid. Lab be, Recovery, Gazette Hebdomadaire, 5 Mai, 1870. rieury, do. Gamier, Diet. Prog, des Sc. Med., 1882. Bille, Death, Berlin, klin. Wochenschrift, 1880. Felizet, do. Deutseb. nied. Zeitschrift, and Cine. Lancet and Clinic, Schonborn, Recovery, Medical Record, May 19, 1H83. [Feb. 3,1883. Thornton, do. British Med. Journal, May 10, and July 5, 1884. {^Douhtful cases.) Frisac, Recovery, Otis, 0[). cit. Bouisson, do. Ibid. Garcia, do. Ibid. New, do. Ibid. Ewing, do. Ibid. Of tlie 13 eases of undoulited authentieitj above tabulated, 10 are known to liave been snccessfnl, and an eleventh (Felizct’s) would have been erj[nally so, but for imprudence in diet on the part of the patient.] Foreign Bodies in the Intestines.—Foreign bodies may enter the bowel in the following ways ;— 1. They may be swallowed and passed On through the pylonis. It is rare for bodies which have reached the gut in this way to become lodged within it, but it occasionally haj )pens. Reference has already been made to a case in which the handle of a knife, seven inches long, passed into the duodenum and caused sloughing of its front wall. There are not a few instances on record in which fruit-stones have become impacted in the ciecal appendix. Fish-bones and particles of chicken and other bones become impacted in the walls of the Ixnvel, and there set up abscess. I saw the late Mr. Be Morgan remove a slender piece of bone from a fstula in ano which he was laying open ; the evidence went to sliow that it had lieen swallowed, not introduced from below. Again, things like wool, hair, husks of oats, cocoanut-fbre, etc., swallowed little by little, may in time accumulate in tlie bowel and cause obstruction.^ 2. Alter ulceration, liiliary calculi, pancreatic calculi, renal calculi, and hydatids from the kidney and other solid organs, may enter the bowel and either give rise to obstruction or be discharged -per annul. 3. Foreign bodies are not infrequently introduced into the rectum by the patients themselves, and thei’e become impacted, or penetrate the walls of the rectum and enter the bladder, vagina, peritoneal cavity, or some coil of bowel which has descended into the pel vis. It is possible that they may sometimes work upwards' even as high as the crecurn.^ 4. Bullets enter the intestine after penetrating the abdominal walls, but ' Dr. Down, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1867 ; Bryant, op. cit., 3d ed., vol. i. p. 616. ^ Holmes, Principles and Practice of Surgery, 3d ed., p. 215. 1882.