501 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. of sulphate of zinc (gr. x to fsj), night and morning, will effect much good. In more confirmed cases, the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver (gr. xxx to llj), with a brush, or painting with the tincture of iodine or solution of the perchloride of iron, will he necessary, combined with atten- tion to the general health; but the improvement is always slow, and the remedies must be varied to suit individual cases. Tumors of the pharynx are of rare occurrence, and usually of congenital origin; they are mostly pendulous, with a narrow neck. The most remark- able case known is one in which a fatty tumor, now in the museum of the Westminster Hospital, occurred in an old man whose history is recorded by Mr. Holt.i Here the pedicle was attached to the epiglottis, so that when the tumor was projected into the mouth the patient was sufibcated. Other cases in which smaller pedunculated growths have been successfully removed, are recorded, and in any case of difficulty from impending asphyxia, the opera- tion of laryngotorny would relieve all embarrassment during the removal of the tumor. A pulsating tumor of the pharynx may be due to an aneurism of the internal carotid artery^ as in cases recorded by Porter and Syme; and Mr. Barnes,^ of Bolton, has recorded a ease of pulsating tumor of the back of the pharynx, in a woman aged seventy-three, in which the pulsation was entirely arrested by pressure upon the external carotid. Diseases of the Tongue. Tongue-tie is a common congenital affection, but more often imagined by the mother or nurse than actually present. Any slight difficulty in sucking, soon after birth, or in talking at a later period, is apt to be put down to “ tongue-tie,” and though in some cases the frrcnum is shorter, and extends nearer the tip of the tongue, than in others, it may be doubted whether, ex- cept in extreme examples, it ever really interferes-with the movement of the organ. I have, however, recently had to divide the frienum in a young man of twenty-eight, whose speech was certainly interfered witli. The operation of division is very simple if a blunt-pointed pair of scissors be used, and if the points be directed downwards so as not to injure the tongue itself, or the ranine artery, which may be protected with the lingers, or with the split handle of a director. A small snip is rpiite sufficient, and the point of the linger may tear the Irtenum a little liirther if necessary. Ranula is the term applied to cysts beneath the tongue, but these vary con- siderably in character. The simplest is a thin-walled cyst having a bluish look, and containing clear mucus. This is due to the obstruction and dilata- tion of one of the numerous mucous follicles of the floor of the mouth, and never to dilatation of the Whartonian duct of the sulnnaxillary gland, which does not undergo dilatation except when its orifice is obstructed, as some- times happens, by a salivary calculus. Occasionally a ranula is multilocular, a second cyst lying behind the superficial one. The treatment consists either in snipping out a piece of the cyst wall with scissors, or in passing a fine seton through the cyst. The seton may be intro- duced with an ordinary curved needle, and should l»e of fine silver wire, the ends of which can be twisted, and will lie under the tongue without absorb- ing putrid material, as would be the case with silk. As a ride, the wire does I Path. Soc. Trans., vol. v. ® Lauxjet, October 30, 1875.