305 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL. Ulcers, Polypoid Growths, and Bone-Caries.—In the great majority of cases, the pathological conditions enumerated in the above title are encoun- tered only as secondary phenomena, dependent upon a primary intlammation of the middle ear. In a few cases, however, they present all the appearances of being purely independent aftections. If the true history were known in each such instance, it would probably be found that the primary afiection had healed, leaving the secondary pathological process as the only evidence of active disease. Cases of this kind are by no means common. They are interesting as pathological curiosities; but, as they do not ditfer, in any important res}>ect, from the same lesions of a clearly secondary nature, I may be allowed to omit any further mention of them in this place. Syphilitic Ulcers and Condylomata.—Well-marked syphilitic lesions, such as ulcers, gummy spots or tumors, and papillary growths, are rarely seen in the external auditory canal. They are to he treated in precisely the same manner as these lesions in other parts of the body are usually treated, viz., by the internal administration of some mercurial preparation, or iotlide of l)otassium, and locally by cauterization or excision. Foreign Bodies in the Auditory Meatus.—Under this heading are included all objects, or living organisms, which tind an entrance into the external auditory canal from without, and not those which have developed in that cavity, or originally formed a part of its ■walls. They consist usually of such articles as a child is in the habit of playing with ; as, for example, glass beads, small pebbles, bits of slate pencil, peas, beans of ditferent varie- ties, cherry and prune pits, etc. Insects and bugs of various kinds also sometimes tind their ivay into the meatus. As a rule, the foreign body causes very little, if any, discomfort, and the patient is usually brought to the physician’s office, more on account of the fear, on the part of the parents, that damage may be done to the ear if the foreign body be allowed to remain, than on account of pain or any marked impairment of the hearing observable at the time. When pain is a noticeable feature of the case, it will usually be found, on iuf[uiry, that unskilled attempts have been made—in some instances by friends, in others, I regret to say, by medical men—to extract the foreign body. Cases have even been known in which })ersistent and violent attempts wei’e made to extract a foreign body whose presence in the ear was purely imaginary. It is, therefore, the physician’s first duty, when consulted about a case of foreign body in the ear, to ascertain by direct inspection whether the object in question really is, or is not, present in the external auditory canal. When he has seen the foreign body, he should proceed to ascertain, by careful exploration with the curette or the slender middle-ear probe, ivliether it lies loosely, or is firmly impacted in the canal. The anterior cul-de-sac, which is situated between the rnembrana tyrnpani and tlie anterior inferior wall of the meatus, is sometimes quite a deep recess, and may then readily harbor a small foreign body so perfectly that simple inspection will tail to discover the fact of its presence in the canal. If we have reason, thei’efore, to believe solid, ointment-like consistence <at the ordinary temperature of tlie human hody, wliereas vase- line at the same temperature speedily hecomes almost as Ihrid as wahu-. The composition of cuticura is unknown to me, but I have now used it for more than a year in cases of inflammation (eczematous or otherwise) of the external auditory canal, and can speak with confidence of its beneficial elfects. I do not believe that its curative powers reside in anything that is peculiar to the preparation as a drug or chemical compound ; they are due entirely, 1 believe, to the jsro- longed protection whicli it is capable of alfording against the injurious ell'ects of exposure to the air. VOL. V.—20