137 MALFORMATIONS OF THE SKULL. four days. It was then found to be a cerebral protrusion that had issued through a hole in front of the sella turcica. Progress and Prognosis.—The majority of infants who are born alive with these deformities do not long survive their birth, but die during the first few days or sometimes weeks of life. The prognosis is worse in hydren- cephalocele than in the other tumors. In hydrenceplialocele, indeed, the prog- nosis is absolutely bad; in many cases the condition of the lirain is incom- patiljle with any but the briefest existence, and in other instances the mass rapidly enlarges, and in time bursts, death occurring from collapse or con- vulsions, or acute meningitis. Very few indeed live even a few weeks. Sir Prescott Ilewett^ and Laurence^ give cases in which patients survived some months, but these instances must be regarded as quite exceptional. In meningocele the prognosis is a little better. As a rule, however, tire tumor increases rapidly, bursts and causes death, and this event usually occurs soon after birth. Some increase much more slowly, and months may elapse before a rupture takes place. Others, having attained a certain size, remain stationary for an indefinite period, while in still more fortunate instances the cavity of the tumor becomes cut ofi‘ from the cranial cavity, and the tumor becomes harmless.^ Many cases therefore of cure of meningocele have been recorded. It is in encephalocele that the prognosis is the most favorable. Although a great number die soon after birth, yet the early mortality is not as great as in the other forms of tumor. In some cases there may be fiuid in the sac, and this, by increasing, may cause rupture, and death from meningitis, etc. But commonly the tumors attain no great size, and very commonly remain stationary. Some patients thus attected may therefore reacli puberty, but they often are idiotic, orsufier from paralysis or some other gross nerve lesion. I’atients with encephalocele have, however, survived many years and enjoyed perfect health. Such cases have been met with in patients aged 15,^ 20,® and 33® years, and between these ages no small number of cases have been re- corded. As regards the situation of these congenital tumors (regarded gene- rally), the prognosis is most unfavorable for those aliout the occiput, not so grave for those in the frontal region, and least serious for those upon the vertex. Treatment.—Operation in these cases is only justifiable under one condition, and that is when rupture of the tumor is threatening. Otherwise the mass should be simply protected, and as firm pressure applied as the patient can bear without inconvenience. (1) Meningocele.—If rupture be threatening, the sac may be emptied by the trocar, and pressure applied. If it relill, it should be tappeil again, and the repeated tapping may result in cure.^ If, however, the sac refill in a shorter time after each tapping, and the fluid become dull, injections of iodine may be used. It must be owned, hovrever, that this latter treatment has met with no success, although in two cases® the tumor remained stationary after the injection. Mr. Holmes uses a solution of one part of tincture of iodine to two parts of water ; he injects two drachms of this solution, and allows it to ' Loc. cit., p. 132. 2 Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxix. p. 307. 185G. ^ See cases by Mr. Solly, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xl. p. 19, and Mr. IIutoLinson’s Illast. of Clin. Siirg., vol. ii. ji. 25. Dr. Carrington has recorded a case of so-called meningocele that became apparently cprite liarmless. Lancet, vol. ii. p. 894. 1880. ^ Prescott llewett, loc. cit., p. 138. ® Robert Adams, loc. cit. ® Uuyenot, M6moires de I’Academie de Chirurgie, tome i. p. 8G3. See other cases in J. Z. Laurence’s paper. ’’ Case recorded by Mr. James West; Lancet, vol. vii. p. 552. 1875. * Cases recorded by Sir James Paget, Path. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 12, and by Mr. Holmes, St. George’s IIosp. Reports, vol. i. p. 35. 18(iU.