974 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOJIEH. fistula followed sloug-hing of the ctecum. The fistula in each of these cases appears soon to have closed. In civil life, recovery with temporary fistula has followed enterorrhaphy in a gunshot wound of the small intestine d hut Otis tells us that it has not done so in military surgical practice. Larrey, however, treated a soldier who was wounded at the siege of Cairo (1799), by stitching the completely divided ileum to the edges of the external wound, with good result. After two months, the ends of the divided bowel were connected together by adhe- sions, and were almost in contact. The artificial anus contracted to a fistula, which was dressed and covered with Desault’s tampon, at intervals, for another two months, and the patient left the hospital perfectly cured.^ Wounds of the large intestine, whether incised, lacerated, or gunshot, are much more frequently followed by recovery with a temporary or permanent fecal fistula. Otis states that patients with shot-wounds of the transverse colon have rarely survived, hut that many survivals have been seen after per- forations of the caecum and ascending colon, and still more after wounds of the sigmoid flexure and descending colon. lie goes on to say “not a few of these fortunate cases were complicated by groovings or perforations of the Avings of the innominata. I7early all Avere attended Avith stercoral fistulae, Avhich commonly closed after a time Avithout operative interference, re-opening at intervals and then healing permanently.’’^ He gives one case of recovery after shot-Avound of the transverse colon; the ball entered on the left side at the junction of the tenth rib Avitli its costal cartilage, passed backAvards and slightly doAviiAvards through the abdomen, and came out behind and a little to the left of the second lumbar vertebra ; small pieces of paper and clothing which had been driven in before the ball, escaped by the stomach and by the anus for three Aveeks ; and for a long period on attempting to evacuate the hoAvels, feces and urine, and seeds of fruit eaten, passed by both Avounds; a small piece of bone, too, was removed from each. Out of 59 cases of shot-Avound of the large intestine during the ’\\mr of the Rebellion, the stercoral fistula persisted in 9, and closed in 50—Avithin a month in 17, Avithin a year in 28, and in 5 at periods extending from one year to four.^ Teale’s® tables shoAV the same favorable results. (2) Probably the most frequent cause of fecal fistula in civil life is sloughing after sb'angnlated hernia. If a small hole forms from ulceration or sloughing in the strangulated boAvel after its reduction, a fistula, or an abscess folloAved by a fistula, Avill result, provided that adhesions have sealed the general peritoneal cavity against the ilsk of fecal effusion. Artificial anus folloAvs Avhen slougliing of a large part of the strangulated boAvel occurs. (3) Abscess may arise from other causes than external injury, and result in fecal fistula. Teale® has collected four tA'pical cases, JoberP gives others, and still others are given under the heading of fecal abscess in this article. (4) Mr. Bryant® has reported a remarkalile case of fecal fistula Avhich formed spontaneously at the loAver end of an ovariotomy wound, on the fourteenth day after an operation for a semi-solid tumor of the left ovary complicated with ascites. The pedicle Avas secured in tAVO parts by a strong Avhipcord ligature, and dropped back into the abdomen. After the free discharge of feces for four days, the fistula closed for seven days, and then opened again ' Gissing’s case, Brit. Medical Journal, 1858. (A boy aged 17, injured by the bursting of an iron cannon.) ^ Mein, de Cliir. Mil. et Camp., t. ii. p. IGO. ® Op. oit., Part. 11. Surg. Vol., pp. 76, 77. ■* Otis, op. cit., p. 98. ® Teale, Art. “ Intestinal Fistula,” in Costello’s Cyclopedia of Practical Surgery, vol. ii. ® Ibid., jj. 361. ^ Maladies du Canal Intestinal, tome ii. 1829. ’ Guy’s llosp. Reports, 3d series, vol. xiv. p. 228.