SURGERY OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. 559 ins; the mass, and each particle of gold was hammered into solidity as it was introduced ; automatic mallets, electric mallets, and mallets run by machinery were introduced, but by whatever force the mallet was propelled, there is no doubt of the injury which it caused, unless used with exceeding caution. A mallet is really unnecessary to the perfection of any tilling. The Old}" advantage tliat tin has over gold, is that it is cheaper and can be introduced with less skill, but it is not as durable as gold, because in time it becomes completely oxidized. Amalgam is now used under various names to disguise the fact that mercury forms one of its principal ingredients. Its composition is of silver and tin, about equal parts, alloyed and maile into tilings. These tilings are softened and amalgamated with mercury, which gives the mass the ]»roperty of setting or crystallizing in a short time, and becoming a piece of dense, solid metal. A very small percentage of gold or platinum, or of both, is sometimes added, and the mixture is called “ gold and platinum alloy;” but the addition of these metals does not give the composition any appreciable quality, and by whatever name it may be called, it is simply an amalgam. Very exhaustive experiments have been made within a few years, and all the resources of science liave been brought to bear, to improve this tilling material, until, as now made, it has all the good qualities that are ever likely to be obtained. The best article will not tarnish in the mouth, and will not shrink, and, excepting its color, seems to be as near a perfect metallic tilling as is likely to be found. Although the color is a steel-gray, which it will retain, it is not a color that harmonizes as well with tooth-substance as that of gold, and is not as well adapted for tillings which are exposed to sight. The great advantage of amalgam is the readiness and certainty with which it can be used, and its indestructibility. No tooth has ever been made weaker by its introduction. At certain pei’iods much prejudice has existed against the use of amalgam for a tilling, because it con- tains mercury, but the observations of all unbiased practitioners, together with the most critical tests which can be made, show that this i)rejudice is groundless. Gutta-percha is one of the best substances for tilling teeth that has ever been discovered. Tlie pre]>aration employed is made by bleaching the gum, and adding a small })erceutage of mineral substance, thoroughly incorporated. For very large cavities iipon the adjoining surfaces of the teeth, Avhicli roach under the gum, it has no equal. It is tolerated by the gum in contact with it as no other material is. It is not difficult of introduction, will not weaken a tooth in its a])plication, and is insoluble. The objection to it is that it will not bear the abrasion to which a tilling upon the grinding surfaces is subjected. Nevertheless, it is jirobable that if everg tilling which has heretofore been ma<le of gold had been made of gutta-percha instead, more teeth would have been permanently saved. Two other prei)arations in common use are worthy of mention : tlie so-called “oxychloride of zinc” and “ oxy}ihosphate of zinc.” They are prepared by first roasting the oxide of zinc of commerce, grinding, and then mixing, for one with muriate of zinc, aial for the other with phosphoric acid. The zinc, being in a fine powder, when mixed forms a paste which sets almost instantly, and which makes a very hard substance, only soluble in the tluids f)f the mouth to a moderate extent. Tliese are valuable prc]»arations, particu- larly the “ oxyphosphate” which seems to exert a medicinal infiuence upon the pul]» of a tooth and upon supersensitive dentine. For tillings in children’s teeth, it seems to be well adaqited. It is also of es])ecial value in large cavi- ties near ex])osed pulp, where it may nearly fill the cavity and be finished out with gold. The preparation of a cavity for filling requires delicate manipulation, in