10-30 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN. Sir James Simpson, Benmtz, Lawson Tnit, and others have however recorded cases of abscess of the ovary resulting from acute ovaritis in child- bed, due to septic causes, but quite distinct from general septic peritonitis in which the ovary has become involved secondarily to the peritoneum. Apart altogether from pregnancy and parturition, it may he excited by any chronic source of ovarian irritation, and may he preceded by many years of ovarian, uterine, or other pelvic trouble. I have recorded a case’ in which fatal peritonitis was excited by a small abscess in the left ovary of an unmarried woman, aged thirty-two, who for six months had been subject to attacks of retention of urine and other bladder troubles, due to tlie presence of a myoma of tlie nterus. Mr. C. J. Cullingvvortld has published a case of abscess in both ovaries. The woman, aged forty-tive, had for several months been losing strength, and for six weeks had suffered from vomiting and pain in the abdomen. The right ovary rn[)tured, and its pnrnlent contents escaped between the layers of the abdominal parietes, giving rise to sucli a degree of abdominal swelling as to lead to the supposition that the case was one of suppurating ovarian cyst. The patient died of peritonitis, and at the post-mortem examination the nterus was found tliickened antero-posteriorly, “ owing to the presence’ in its anterior wall of three small fibroids, the largest of which was ecjual in size to a ])igeon’s egg.” ]\Ir. Lawson Tait records® the case of a woman aged thirty-eight upon whom lie per- formed oophorectomy, and in Avhose left ovary was an abscess containing about two drachms of pus, on tlie point of bursting into the peritoneal cavity. This patient had suffered for many years from great ovarian pains, and her catamenia occurred fortnightly, and, though scanty, were prolonged for a week or ten days. It is quite possible that in this case also some small uterine myoma may have been the cause of liersistent ovarian irritation. As tibseess is an occasional terrniuation of acute ovaritis, any of the causes wliich produce acute inliannnatiou may lead to suppuration. These are violence, gonorrhoea, immoderate sexual intercourse, intra-uterine injec- tions, the application of strong caustics to, and other operations upon, the nterus, the sudden suppre.ssion of the menses from cold, sudden shock, fatigue, etc. Andral mentions the case of a woman, aged thirty-six, who died from the eftccts of sudden menstrual suppression from cokl; the left ovary was enlarged and contained pus. Wilks and !Moxon “ have met occasionally with pyamiic abscesses of the ovai’y, and an abscess in phthisis, hut no tubercle.” Tubercle is however another cause of ovarian abscess, and although tubercle of the ovary is usually, if not ahvays, associated Avith tubercle of other organs, still this disease in the ovary may outstrip and overshadow that in any other of the atiected parts, and through its secondary effects may cause death. Mr. Cullingwortb lias piiblisbecl a second case"’ of abscess in both ovaries, in a young woman aged 26, of strumous history and chronic ill-health, whose catamenia had been absent for twenty-seven months. As in his first case, so in this, the abdomen was uni- formly enlarged ; but in this case tlie enlargement was owing (1 j to the greatly increased size of the suppurating ovaries ; (2) to the effusion into and general thickening of the peritoneum ; and (3) to the matting together of the intestines by old adhesions. Death occurred from peritonitis, and at the post-mortem examination several little masses of cheesy material, rather smaller than a pea, were found in the lungs near their posterior borders, and similar cheesy nodules exi.sted in the kidneys*and spleen. Tlie right ovary measured 4| by 3^ inches, and the left 7;^ by 5 inches. Both were filled with offensive pus, were displaced towards one another, and were adherent together by a band of Brit. Med. Journal, May 21, 1881. Diseases of the Ovaries, 4th ed., p. 125. 2 Lancet, Nov. 3, 1877. ‘ Lancet, Nov. 10, 1877.