177 ANATOMY OF THE EYE. which its fibres are interlaced. This is the dilator of the pupil, and it is endowed by filaments from the sympathetic nerve. The iris tissue is abun- dantly supplied with bloodvessels and pigment cells, the latter more exube- rant on the posterior surface. There is likewise a generous distribution of nerve-fibres, sensory and motor, all the elements being united by connec- tive tissue. The iris, in a narrow ring around the pupillary bordei’, rests against the anterior lens capsule, over which it slides in the almost constant movements of contraction and dilatation of the pupil. The pupil moves in response to reflex impressions, made by light on the retina. Lying immediately within the choroid, and extending from the optic nerve entrance to the ora serriita retime, is the nerve-membrane, the retina. It is a very soft, perishable structure, cpiite transparent, and hence invisible, except by the bloodvessels with which it is freely su[iplied. Ordinarily per- fectly colorless, it becomes of a purplish-red by a sojourn in the dark. This color is soon dissipated wlien the eye is exposed to common light. Fascinat- ing as may be the chemical theory of vision, it is by no means certain that actinic action has anything to do with this marvellous fimeticm. Tliree objects, all in or connected with the retina, are positively to he seen by ophthalmoscopic illumination: the optic disk, with its sharp margins and Fig- 851. Fig. 852. To in Equatorial section of eyeball, natural size, posterior segment. Po. Optic papilla; ML Macula lutea. (After Merkel.) characteristic vessels; the macula lutea., in the direct line of vision ; and the ramifications of tlie retinal vessels. The disk or papilla is of circular form, 1.4 mm. in diameter, light purplish- white in tint, and contrasthig sharply with the declared color of the rest of the fundus of the eye. In its centre are seen the main trunks of the central artery and correspondiiig veins of the retina, radiating and ramifying in all directions, but more notably towards the inner, u})per, and lower parts of that membrane. The arteries are easily distinguished by their lighter color and somewhat smaller size. About 4 mm. from the centre of the ])a]ulla, and out- wards, is seen the macula lutea with its fovea centralis. This lies in the axis of direct vision, and is the most ex(j[uisite part of the retina. (Fig. 851.) VOL. V.—12 IMagraminatic section of the human retina, .showing its ton layers. (After Schultze and Schwalbe.)