544 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MOUTH, TONGUE, JAWS, ETC. the hone into the mouth, thus dividing the whole of the hard palate w’ithout the splintering which usually follows division with hone-forceps. The soft palate escapes injury from the saw, and any attempt to dissect off and pre- serve the soft covering of the hard palate is tutile. The nasal process of the maxilla may be conveniently notched or completely divided with a small saw, and the saw is next to he applied to the malar hone, parallel to and imme- diately in front of the masseter muscle. This cut will then run into the spheno-maxillary fissure, and the prominence of the clieek will he preserved ; hut in cases of very extensive involvement ot the malar bone, it will be neces- sary to remove the whole of it by dividing the zygomatic process, and the frontal process at its junction with the frontal bone. Before dislocating the bone, it is well to divide the soft palate transversel}', close to its attachment to the hard palate, Avhicli can he readily done from the mouth. 'With a pair of angular hone-torceps, the three cuts made with the saw should then be thoroughly cleared, and it is convenient to take them in the reverse order, viz., malar hone, nasal process, palate. The hone-forceps, when dividing the palatine attachments, may he conveniently used to tilt the whole jaiv forward, and the lion-forceps should then he emploj’ed to grasp it, and forcibly depress the mass, while the scalpel is used to divide the infra- orbital nerve behind the bone so as to prevent its being stretched, and also any soft tissues Avhich may remain attached to the jaiv. The hemorrhage, which is often sharp for the moment, is best checked temporarily by thrusting a sponge into the opening, and this after a feiv minutes' pause may be with- draivn, in order to allow of the application of the actual cautery at a black heat, so as to sear any bleeding vessel. A careful examination should be made to see that all the diseased tissue is removed, when caustic paste may he advantageously applied to any doubtful ]^)arts; after Avhich the flap of skin is to be replaced and fixed Avitli fine Avire sutures, and Avith harelip pins for the lip, the red margins of Avliich are best approximated by a fine silk stitch. Unless the oozing of blood is so considerable as to necessitate plug- ging the Avound, it is, I am sure, better not to introduce any lint beneath the cheek, since it only collects discharge and becomes A’ery otfensive in a feAV hours, Avhen its AvithdraAval is both difficult and painful. Thorough sponging Avith a strong solution of chloride of zinc (forty grains to the ounce), and sulisequent dusting Avith iodoform, Avill keep the ])arts SAveet for some days, after Avhich free syringing Avith antiseptic lotions is useful, and for this pui'pose nothing ansAvers better than the continuous stream of the siphon nasal douche. Removal of both upper jaws has been performed a feAv times, and in A'ery severe operations of the kind recourse may l)e had to Trendelenburg’s method of performing tracheotomy and i>lugging the trachea by an India-rubber tampon around the tracheal tube. This instrument is somewhat unsatis- factory, hoAvever, for if bloAAui up sufiiciently to really plug the trachea, it is a})t to produce urgent dyspnma by pressure on the rings of that tube; and a more satisfactory method Avill be found to consist in performing tracheotomy, and then plugging the upper part of the pharynx Avitli a sponge, to Avhich a string is attached for safety’s sake. I)i'. "GoodAvillie, of HeAv York, and other surgeons, hav^e employed the “dental engine” in operating upon the U2)per jaAv, and jn-ofess to have found their operations greatly facilitated by the use of this machine. There can be no (piestion that great rapidity may be gained in the use of various drills and saAVS ingeniously adapted to the engine, l»ut ex]ierience is AA'anting, in England, at least, in its use, and the great rapidity of its action Avould appear to be not unaccompanied by danger.