272 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EYES AND THEIR APPENDAGES. of tears, is tlie first symptom of tliis great trouble, and persists as long as any deficiency of muscular activity continues. Whether facial paralysis be due to peripheric or central causes, or to disease of the drum of the ear, it may never disappear, in which event surgical pelief is the only hope. The lids, in every case, should, during sleep, he kept closed by a compress and bandao’e, to prevent the evils of exposure. Even by day, an hour’s rest with the eye thus closed by a wet compress, affords great comfort and protection. When iiifiammation and ulceration of the cornea set in, constant protection by clos- ing the lids must be enforced. Afore permanent comfort may be secured by a plastic operation on the lids. This is done by paring the free edges of the upper and lower lids, near the outer commissure, and uniting them'by stitches or twisted sutures. By leaving the outer angle itself free, the union can be after- wards severed, in case the paralysis disappears. The edges should be made raw for from a fourth to half an inch, according to the amount of insufiiciency. Ifotliing need be cut away but the skin covering the free margins, avoiding the Aleiboniiau follicles and the eyelashes. The union thus secured, relieves the patient’s distress, and greatly improves his personal appearance. In confirmed cases, resulting from disease of the ear, I pare the two lids half-way between the centre and the outer commissure, for a short distance, and secure perma- nent union with very great improvement. The lids are excessively relaxed, and the patients, befoi’e the operation, cannot work for constant weeping. I have done this and seen it done many times, and always with benefit. Fol- lowing the advice of Von Graefe, I have several times practised a similar canthoplasty in extreme cases of exophthalmic goitre. In some, relief and improvement have been gained; but in others the destructive inflammation of the cornea has seemed to be hastened. In facial paralysis the operation is always beneficial. Ptosis.—Ptosis is a drooping of the upper lid from paralj^sis of the levator palpebrie muscle, or from congenital absence of the muscle. As the other branches su})plied by the third nerve are usually implicated, we see at the same time divergence of the eye and inability to move it in any direction but outwards. The pupil is also dilated, and the accommodation paralyzed. AVhen the lid is raised, of course there is harassing diplopia. Hence the ptosis should not be corrected till the divergence and double vision have disappeared. If it then still persist, it may be safely remedied by an operation, Unsiglitly drooping, and a sleepy expression of one or both upper lids, generally accompany bad, chronic cases of granular conjunctivitis. Should this droop- ing persist as a serious deformity, after treatment has relieved the disease, it may be corrected by a well-timed operation. Of the methods I’ecommended, I usually prefer the removal of a horizontal fold of skin. The strip removed should extend the whole length of the lid, and sliould be of the same width throughout, at most not exceeding five millimetres. In all operations on the lids, where skin is sacrificed, it is far better to get too little than too much effect. The excision should not come nearer than four mm. to the free mar- gin. AVe seek to raise the whole lid equally, and naturally, and not to change the normal position of the cilia. For a beginner, it is safer to dot out with ink the piece to be removed, and to confine himself strictly to that. Careless use of the forceps and scissors, is very apt to lead to disastrous excess and insufficiency of the lid. Too much caution in this respect cannot be enjoined. The wound is closed with a good number of very fine sutures. The elevating'^ effect may be increased by passing the needle first through the lower edge of the skin, and then re-entering it, going deep_ enough to graze the tarsus, and coming out through the upper edge. The stitches can be removed in twenty- four hours. The swelling and increased weight of the lid make it droop