48 INJURIES OF THE HEAD, goal branch is the source of the etfusion, the clot is likely to be located at the side and base of the brain. Unless the shock and collapse are exception- ally prolonged, when the force of the circulation will not suffice to dislodge the clots in the torn vessels and overcome tlie resistance of the inverted vascular tunics, tiie delay of hours or days in the appearance of compression symptoms indicates a limited separation of the dura mater, and shows that the source of tlie hemorrhage is rather from the dural vessels than from the meningeal artery. Alcoholism may be ditferentiated by the thermometer, the temperature being markedly subnormal,^ and by the flushed, turgid face, instead of the pallor which attends severe injury. Drunken men with head injuries should be carefully Avatcbed until sufficient time has elapsed for recovery from intoxication, as there may be concomitant cerebral injury wbich otherwise might escape detection. Apoplexy, causing a fall, with a consequent seal}) wound or cranial fracture, is a condition which would be im})Ossible of i-ecognition without the testimony of some eye-witness as to the tall having been }jroduced by some precedent head troulfle. In o})iu)n poison- ing, the })U}.)ils are both contracted to the size of a })in-})oint instead of being widely dilated, or one being dilated and the other only moderately contracted. Treatment.—To be of any avail, this must ertect the removal of the blood already efl’used, and tbe })revention of furtber hemorrhage. The aid of the facts of cerebral localization must be invoked, together with a knowledge of the anatomical course of the two main divisions of the great meningeal artery. If the sym})toms ra}>idly su}jervene,an 0})ening at either the anterior inferior or the posterior inferior angle of the })arietal bone, will }:)robably reveal the source of hemorrhage, unless cerebral to})Ography indicates some other }K)int for the a})})lication of the tre})hine. When found, the injured vessel may be secui-ed l)y plugging its bony canal with the })oint of ashar})ened match, with a pellet of wax, or with a red-hot knitting needle. Early o})eration is indicated, since it attbrds the best pros|iect of success, as shown by results. Thus out of forty cases which I have collected in which o})erations have been performed under these circumstances, twenty-four have ended in recovery and sixteen in death.^ Twenty-two were jirimary 0})erations, of which number eight were fatal; two operations which were successful, were })robably early, but I cannot ascertain the details; while of sixteen secondary cases, only one-half recovered. Several of the successful cases occurred within the })ast twenty years, thus refuting Mr. Hutchinson’s statement that no modern instances of success are on record. The cause of death is usually sup})urative encephali- tis. If the dura mater does not rise u}) to the cranial level, the }irognosis is bad, the dural de})ression })robably indicating extensive injury of the sub- jacent brain substance. The trephine should be of large size, and should fluid blood issue from the first o}iening, and the source of hemorrhage not be detectable, one or more openings should be made along the course of the meningeal artery until the bleeding })oint can be reached. According to a statement in Dr. Keen’s edition of Mr. Holden’s “ Landmarks,” the vessel will be uncovered by a tre})hine a}i})lied with its centre-}jin about an inch and a half behind the external angular })rocess of the frontal bone, and the same distance above the zygoma. A numlier of the cases above referred to, were instances of de})ressed gunshot fracture from non-penetrating projec- ' Agnew (op. dt., vol. i. p. 285) quotes Dr. B. W. Richardson to this effect. 2 S.Av. Gross, fourteen cases (Am. Journal of the Med. Sciences, New Series, vol. Ixvi.p. 45) ; Mouton, Dru, and Pineau (Quesnay, Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, Trans, hy Ottley, pp. 8,12, 14) ; Physick (Gross, System of Surgery, 6th ed., vol. ii. p. 55) ; Conner (Cin- cinnati Lancet and Clinic, Jan. 5, 1884) ; Hennen (Military Surgery, Case XLIX.) ; Guthrie (Commentaries on the Surgery of War, 6th ed., p. 349); Keate (Holme.s’s System of Surgery, 3d ed., vol. i. p. 576) ; Tatem (ibid.) ; S. D. Gross (op. cit., vol. ii. p. 55) ; Erichsen (op. cit., vol. i. 556) ; Larrey (Mil. Surg., vol. i. p. 306) ; Guthrie (Commentaries, pp. 315, 316), etc.