DISEASES OF THE SKULL, ETC. 141 « evidence of suppuration, an early incision down to the bone will be called for. The prognosis in these cases is on the whole favoralile. Caries of the Skull.—Caries is frecpiently met with in the skull bones, although the structure of these bones predisposes them rather to necrosis. Etiology.—The commonest cause of caries in this locality is undoubtedly tertiary syphilis, the disease following u}ion a chronic syphilitic osteo-perios- titis. Many cases are due to scrofula, and in a few rare instances, the cause is injury. Caries from injury is extremely rare in the healthy, the usual degenerative change, if any, being necrosis. If caries should follow upon traumatism, it will then be usually quite limited and restricted to tlie exter- nal table. Some conspicuous excei>tions have, however, been recorded. Sir Prescott Hewett^ cites a case of caries of the frontal and both parietal bones, and of part of the occipital lioiie, that followed from a simple blow on the head. Abercrombie^ records a remarkable case where very extensive caries of the internal table occurred after a by no means severe fall upon the head, and a few other exceptional cases of a like nature have been reiiorted. Caries may also extend from the upper cervical vertebne to the adjacent bones of the base of the skull, and Sir P. llewett asserts that caries in this lat- ter situation may likewise be due to extension of inflammation from extensive syphilitic ulcers of the pharynx. Caries of certain parts of the temporal bone is usually subsequent to suppurative catarrh of the tympanum. Pathologi/.—Caries may attack any part of the skull, although it has a special predilection for certain localities. It is most often met with on the frontal bone, particularly at its anterior part, or about its union with the parietals. ilext in order of fre(piency may be placed the mastoid process, and then, perhaps, the occipital lione. Although the disease is usually limited, it may be, on the other hand, very extensive, and may involve, in- deed, almost the entire skull. The external table is more frequently impli- cated than is the internal table; or, if they are both involved, tlien still will the change be usually more extensive in the outer plate. Mr. Gray^ has recorded a curious case of caries, fatal through brain conqdications, where the disease was limited to a small carious spot on the sella turcica. Caries may commence in either the external or internal table, or in the diploe; or it may appear simultaneously in more than one of those parts. Into an account of the minute changes in caries of the skull, it is unnecessary here to enter. Such changes are identical with those observed in caries elsewhere, and have already been fully dealt with in a previous article. Some few special points, however, require notice. Caries of the skull in the dried specimen presents the familiar aspect of caries in other parts. The diseased surface is eroded and worm-eaten, and the limits of the att’ected district very irregular. The depth to which the destructive action may penetrate from the surface varies greatly. It may extend only through the outer table, or may involve more or less of the diploe, or may jterforate to the internal skull-})late. The carious action is usually more destructive in the diploic tissue than in either the ex- ternal or internal table; the result being that some undermining of those tables aljout a carious hole is very common. If the disease has spread from without inwards, and caused perforation of tlie inner plate, the perforations are a}it to be small and numerous, rather than solitary and extensive. Excep- tions, however, are by no means uncommon. ' Lectures on Injuries and Diseases of the Head. Med. Times and Gazette, vol. i. p. 230. 1855. ^ Pathological and Practical Researches on Diseases of the Brain and Spinal Cord, p. 188. Edinburgh, 1845. ^ Trans. Path. Soc. Loudon, vol. ii. p. 19.