309 METHODS OF EXAMINING THE MIDDLE EAR. timetres in diameter, a conical specnlum is fitted ; the opposite end is closed by a glass window placed at such an inclination to the axis of the cylinder, that the rays of light used for illuminating the drum-membrane may readily pass through it without any portion of them being retiected back to the eye of the observer. The free end of the speculum is sheathed with rubber tubing, and may therefore be made to tit air-tight into the auditory canal. When the instrument is in actual use, the observer, by holding the free end of the rubber tube in his mouth, has it in his poAver to condense or rai’efy the air in the auditory canal, and, Avhile doing so, to watch the effects of these procedures upon the drum-membrane and handle of the hammer. The remaining methods of studying the condition of the middle ear, derive their value chiefly from the facts which may be learned by auscultation combined with the forcible introduction of air into this part, by way of the Eustachian tube. There are three such methods, viz., Valsalva’s, Politzer’s, and that by means of the Eustachian catheter. In inflating the middle ear by Valsalva’s method^ the patient closes both nostrils by grasping the nose with the thumb and forefinger of one liand, shuts his mouth firmly, and then makes a strong expiratory effort. In this way he compresses the air in the pharyngeal and nasal cavities to such an extent that it seeks an outlet through the Eustachian tubes. If the effort is successful, the surgeon, Avho has previously established a communication between his own ear and that of the patient, by means of a flexible ausculta- tion-tube, will hear a slight puff or thud, as the air enters the middle ear and distends the drum-membrane. Of the three methods at our command, this is the most unsatisfactory for the purposes of auscultation, but decidedly the best Avhen Ave desire to Avatch the changes that may take place in the drum-membrane Avhile air is being forced into the middle ear. For thera- peutic purposes, on the other hand, it is decidedly inferior to either of the other two, chiefly because it is associated Avith an undesirable, if not danger- ous, degree of venous congestion about the head and neck. In Valsalva’s method the introduction of air into the middle ears is not facilitated by the act of SAvallowing, Avhich is an essential feature of Politzer’s plan. PoUtzer’s method, of inflating the middle ear is very little better, for auscul- tatory purposes, than that of Valsalva, unless the surgeon can avail himself of the services of an assistant. If he attempt to inflate and auscultate at the same time, he Avill find the task an extremely difficult one, at least in adult patients. In children, so little force is required to inflate the middle ear, that one can often perform both acts at the same time in a very satisfac- tory manner. The apparatus Avhich is usually employed in cai-rying out Politzer’s method consists of a rubber bag, provided at one end Avith a hard-rubber nozzle; of a short piece of soft-rubber tubing, of rather small calibre, but of comparatively thick and unyielding Avails; and lastly, of either a curved, cylindrical, or a bulbous, hard-rubber nose-piece. In adults, the curved, hard-rubber nose- piece, like that represented in the accornpanjdng cut (Fig. 891), will be found entirely satisfactoiy in the majority of cases. In children under four or five years of age, in Avhom the nasal orifice is quite small and tender, a nose-piece consisting of a spherical or cone-shaped hard-rubber, or, still better, glass bulb, will usually be found preferable to the cylindrical one. The mode of procedure, in Politzer’s method, is as folloAvs : The patient should take a little Avater—a feAv drops will sutfice—into the month, and then, Avhen the proper signal is given, he should swallow the water, Avhile keeping his lips closed. The physician, on his part, should hold the rubber bag in his right hand, and, when the patient has taken the Avater into his mouth, he should introduce the nose-piece a distance of about half an inch