425 TUMORS OF THE NOSE. Middleclorpf, and subsequently warmly advocated by Voltolini, is aqqdied either by means of the wire loop, or with various electrodes. In the former case, a platinum wire is passed about the growth, as above described, drawn home through a double tube introduced through the nose, and attached to a suitable handle, which is in connection with a powerful galvanic battery. As soon as constriction of the mass is etfected, the connection is closed, and the growth burnt through. The disadvantage of this operation, aside from the pain, is, that the wire can rarely be accurately adjusted to the pedicle of the tumor, and that, as no traction upon the roots is made, the growth is not thoroughly extirpated. Thudichum' is at present the warmest advocate of this instrument, but even in one of his own cases the operation had to be repeated some lifty-tive times. Enlargement of the Outlets of the Nasal Cavity.—Such an operation may, in rare instances, be requisite when the tumor is of such a size, or so placed, as not to be easily reached and extracted through the natural openings. The simplest method consists in the dilatation of the nostril by laminaria tents, as proposed by Thudichum, or by the blades of strong forceps. Sbould, however, more room be necessary, the choice lies between tbe method of Dielfenbach,^ by cutting the wing of the nostril to the edge of the nasal bone— or, if both alse are freed,the septum is also divided, and thenose turned upwards upon the face—or that of Mamie (modified by Maisonneuve by leaving the uvula intact, and called the “ huttonhole” opening), by incising the soft palate throughout its whole extent in the median line. Idie latter method is specially applicable to those cases in which the growth is located well back in the nasal passage ; tlie polypus is encircled by the wire loop passed through the open- ing thus made, and is removed by crushing. After any of the above operations, careful cleanliness of the affected nasal passage must be insisted upon; and Durham asserts that, in some cases, the insuttiation of tannin or other astringent powder is of great service, eitlier in retarding the re-development of the growth, or in aiding the destruction of such portions as may have had their vitality impaired by the operation. Fibrous Polypus.—Tliis may occur at any i>eriod of life. Gross has seen it in children umler fourteen years of age, as well as in adults and in old persons ; but, originating in tbe nasal cavity, sucb a growth is very rare. It may grow from any part of the walls of the nasal fossie, springing from the aponeurotic covering of tlie bones, or from the periosteum, with which, as well as with the subjacent bone, it is closely connected; but it is ordinarily attached by a broad base to the superior turbinated bone, or to the roof of the nose, and so far back that it is not readily seen in an anterior examina- tion of the nasal passage. Rogers^ removed such a polyjius from the vomer. Other cases are reported where the growths sprang from tlie floor of tlie nasal fossae, and even from the external lateral walls of the nose; furthermore, they may originate in the antrum, and exteml tlience into the nose. The exact point of origin is often very difficult to determine, owing to the tendency of tbe growth to acquire secondary attachments. Its substance is made up of bal’d, white fibres, or connective tissue, inter- s})ersed richly with bloodvessels; occasionally, round and fusiform cells are present, but rarely in large numbers; its color is a dark red or purple. The surface of the tumor, when denuded of its epithelium, bleeds readily on ’ On Polypus of tlie Nose and Ozsena. London, 1869. ‘ Surgical Observations on the Restoration of the Nose and the Removal of Polypi. Loudon, 1833. * N. Y. Jour. Med., vol. i. p. 323. 1851.