728 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE AIR-PASSAGES. Ehrendorfer/ one growing inwards from the hack of the cricoid cartilage; Mnsser,^ one the size of a walnut projecting into the interior from the laryn- geal face of the posterior portion of the cricoid cartilage; and Asch,^ one springing forwards and inwards from the inner surface of the thyroid carti- Fig. 1075. Fig. 1076. Fig. 1077. Angeioma on vocal band. Cystoma. Prolapsus of laryngeal sac. lage, apparently at the base of the superior cornu of the right side. The presence of a firm neoplasm, then, in the posterior portion of the larynx, should suggest a possible ecchondroma. When denuded of its mucous mem- brane, the glistening of the tumor through the rent adds additional proba- bility to the diagnosis. Hardness on palpation is insufficient for differenti- ation from fibroma. The other benign growths do not seem to present characteristics sufficient for diagnosis by inspection. Care is recpiisite to distinguish morbid growths from prolapsus of the laryngeal sac (Fig. 1077), of which a few examples are on record;^ from gummata; from exuberant granulations about ulcerated surfaces; and from mere wrinkling of the mucous membrane in movement. Prolapsus of a laryngeal sac can sometimes be differentiated by replac- ing the mucous membrane by means of a probe. By mere inspection, the differentiation would depend on the absence of all indication of a ventricle along the line of the tumor. Prognosis.—The prognosis is generally favorable, provided that the morbid growth is detected, and that proper surgical treatment is instituted. Should proper treatment be declined, neglected, or delayed, death by sudden suffoca- tion may ensue, in cases in which the tumor actually occludes the chink of the glottis, or is liable to become impacted in it. This danger of suffocation lends clinical malignancy to formations histologically benign. Restoration of normal voice, or of practically normal voice, usually follows the removal of neoplasms from the vocal bands, unless these structures suffer injury. Perma- nent impairment of the voice is a frequent sequel of the division of the thyroid cartilage, sometimes practised to get direct access to intra-laryngeal growths; not as a result of the removal of the growth, but in consequence of cicatricial adhesion at the commissure of the vocal bands. Recurrence of morbid growth should be less frequent after removal by direct access, yet statistics seem to show that it is less liable to follow removal through the mouth.® Recurrences are almost limited to sessile papillomata, and are often outgrowths ' Wiener med. Woch., 2 Juli, 1881 ; London Med. Record, Feb. 15, 1882, p. 65. 2 Phila. Med. Times, May 6, 1882. 3 New York Med. Journal, Aug. 30, 1884, p. 235. ^ Moxon, Trans. Patli. Soo. Lond., p. 65. 1868; Mackenzie, op. cit.,p. 34; Lefferts, Medical Record, June 3, 1876; Elsberg, Archives of ■ Laryngology, January, 1882, p. 67 ; Cohen, ibid., p. 66 ; Arnold, Medical News, May 5, 1883, p. 512. 5 Bruns, Die Laryngotomie zur Entfernung intralaryngealen Neubildungen, S. 148. Berlin, 1878. For a contrary opinion, see Browne, The Throat and its Diseases, p. 251. London, 1878.