INJURIES OF THE BRAIN AND MENINGES. 51 2 Agnew, op. cit., vol. i. p. 286. appearance, and is devoid of pulsation. The membrane should then be incised to s;ive free vent to the etfused blood.* In at least two reported cases, this bulging of the dura mater did not take place for hours—in one case thirty- six^—after the trephining. In the cases which occur during infancy, the elder Gi'oss recommends leeching and cold to the liead, stimulating enemata, and brisk purgatives when the child regains the power of swallowing. Fail- ing by these means to atford relief, he advises making a crucial incision over the fontanelle, and puncturing the “ distended, and perhaps purple-looking membrane,” making as small an aperture as Avill suffice to effect the purpose in view, after which a careful application of adhesive strips, compresses, and roller bandages must be made. In conclusion, as to operative measnres, re- cognizing as I do tlie extreme difficulties presented by the diagnosis, and the small percentage of success attendant upon operative }trocedures in intracra- nial extravasations of blood, I think that three facts cannot be denied, viz., that in a certain proportion of cases life has been saved by trephining; that post-mortem records show that a number of patients have perished from intracranial extravasation of blood, Avho could probaI)ly have been saved by timely operation; and that trephining in such cases, though it fail to afford relief, cannot l)e said to measurably reduce the chance of recovery. I cannot hut feel that too many cases are allowed to pass without operaticm, some few of whicli might he rescued if tlie surgeon were not deterred—as is too often the case—rather by considerations of what Avill be said if an unnecessary operation be performed, than by sound surgical contra-indications. Practi- cally, every case which recovers after the removal of extensive intx’acranial blood-effusion, may he considered as one which otherwise Avonld Iiave died, as clinical records shoAV that such cases almost never terminate favorably. (3) lleniorrhxKje into the Fla 3Iater.—These extravasations occur much more rarely than those of the preceding variety, and are usually accompanied Ixy some degree of cerebi’al laceration. Conffned beneath the arachnoid, they spread far fi’om their original source, until even the Avhole cerebellum and spinal marrow may thus he covered with Idood proceeding from a laceration of the cerebrum only. Effusions of blood into the pia mater never become encysted, as far as I can ascertain. 8ympto]as.—This condition presents no symptoms, at present known, wlncli can he relied upon. In most cases of hemorrhage upon the surface of the brain, the patients are said to have been comatose, and to have given no evidence of partial paralysis. Treatment.—As 0[)erative interference is out of the ([uestion, from the im- possibility of removing the lilood already poured out, or, even if that could be done, of preventing further effusion, such remedies as are appropriate for other severe head injuries should he resorted to. (4) and (5) llemoy'rtuuje into the Brain a;nd Ventricles.—Large effusions into the structure of the brain may result from severe head injuries, as well as hemorrhage into the cerebral ventricles. Caution must be exercised lest cases of apoplexy from diseased vessels, either producing the fall Avhich ap- pears to he the cause of the liead symptoms, or rendering possible a large effusion from a slight injury, should lie confounded Avith traumatic hemor- rhage in either of the situations just mentioned. Should the patient survive long enough, an unusual CA^ent from the severity of the concomitant intra- cranial lesions, the effused blood undergoes the Avell-knoAvn changes of a simple apoplectic offVision. ' Successful cases are reported l>y Moraiid (Opuscules de Cliir., tome i. p. 171, Paris, 1768), Ogle (Brodie, Med.-Cliir. Traus., vol. xiv. p. 3-91), and others. Three cases are given in Bruns’s llandbuch der praktischen Chirurgie, Ahth. i. S. 1)31. (Gross.)