183 ANATOMY OF THE EYE. puncta are held gently against the hall, and the tear passages are made to perform their function by the action of the oi’hicnlaris muscle. Throngh the puncta, the mucous lining of the eyelids is continuous with that of the nose and throat. Lying on the anterior surface of the eyelids, between the skin and the tarsi, and extending over the prominent base of the orbit, is the sphinc- ter of the eyelids, the orbicularis muscle. Beginning from the lower edge of the tendo oculi and the adjacent bone, it sweeps around the outer commissure and comes back to be inserted into the upper edge of the same tendon. It is divided into the palpebral portion, lying on the tarsi and exclusively used in winking, and the orbital, called into voluntary play when the eyes are firmly closed. This muscle is supplied by the portio dura of the seventh pair, and, with its relations, is beautifully seen in Fig. 866. Implanted deeply along the anterior lip of the free margin of the lid, with their bulbs between the orbi- cularis fibres and the surface of the tarsus, are the eili® or eye-lashes. Covering the entire muscle and continuous with the skin of the face, is the thin cuta- neous covering of the eyelids, with its loose subcutaneous tissue. The upper eyelid is provided with a muscle, the levator, to lift it, while the lower sub- sides over the projecting globe in response to gravitation, when the orbicularis is relaxed. Optical Defects dependent upon Anatomical Peculiarities of the Eye.—By actual measurement the eye varies in size very much, in difierent persons. The optically perfect eye measures 24 mm. in the antero-posterior diameter, and is called emmetropic or normal. In such an eye the retina lies ill the focus for parallel rays. Distant objects, from which such rays only come, are sharply imaged upon the retina. By distant, we mean from 18 feet otf to infinitely far, as the stars. If the eye is smaller than this ideal standard,’ measuring, for instance, 20 mm. from cornea to retina, it is called hyperopic. In that case parallel rays, undergoing the same refraction by the cornea and lens, will strike the retina before intersecting, and the image will not be sharp. Hence vision of remote objects is imperfect, as long as no voluntary muscu- lar effort of accommodation is added. Theoretically, such an eye could only unite converyent rays upon the rethia ; hut in nature no objects exist that send off such rays, because none are beyond an infinite distance. Practically, then, such eyes are always on a strain, making active efforts of accommodation for all distances. They are never at rest except in sleep. By an emmeti'o- pic eye, remote objects are seen with perfect definition without any accommo- dative muscular action. Hence the ciliary muscle is at absolute rest, except in reading and near work. This difference accounts for the tired and fatigued feeling of hyperopic eyes, which distresses them and gives the physi- cian so mucli trouble and anxiety. A¥hcn applied to close work especially, they tire easily, and are called weak or astheno}fic. The paui and fatigue result from strain of the ciliary muscle, and the trouble is called accommodative asthenopia. It is in hypcro])es that we so often find convergent strabismus. There is still another deviation from the emmetropic form, and that is the myopic or near-sighted eye. In such the distance from cornea to retina is increased, so that parallel rays intersect before reachiug the nerve membrane. The axis of vision measures 25, 30, or even more, millimetres. The far- thest point of distinct vision, instead of being at an infinite, is at a finite dis- tance. It comes nearer and nearer, as the degree of myopia increases. Be- yond the far point, all is dim, the fai-tlier the worse. Such eyes can only get shar}) images of distant objects by the use of concave lenses. All persons who see distant objects better with convex lenses, must be hyperopic. Those whose remote vision is cleared by concave glasses, may be myopic. Myopia occurs rarely in old people, and then generally with incipient cataract. If