233 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. following smallpox, may be treated in tlie same way, Avitli warm fomentations in addition, atropine, and tonics, wdtli good diet. In phlyctennlar keratitis, after the intolerance of light is overcome and all the acute symptoms have abated, the atropine should be omitted, and gentle, local stimulation employed. By general consent, the local use of pure, finely powdered calomel, dusted on the cornea once a day, is the best means of clearing oft’ the remaining opaci- ties. If the child is not timid, the powder may he driven suddenly on to the cornea by tapping the brush. In case it is refractory, its head may be held between the knees, as in using the eye-w^ater. If this treatment acts well, it should be continued for weeks and months, till all corneal traces have cleared away. Weak astringents, excepting the acetate of lead, may be used for the same purpose, dropped into the eye once a day. Of course the iron and other tonics, cod-liver oil, malt, etc., with good diet, should be continued for months after the child is seemingly well. Otherwdse the disease wdll recur. For convenient local use, the calomel may be applied in the form of a salve with vaseline, one grain to each drachm. Suphiliticparenchyimtoas keratitis must be treated constitutionally as well as locally. The dwarfed figure, old and leathery face, characteristic teeth, per- haps nodes on tlie shins, and rheumatism af the knee-joints, can hai’dly be mistaken. And yet the wmrst forms of scrofula are so allied to_ syphilis that their differential diagnosis is by no means easy. It seems indeed that the two diatheses are often combined, and wdien syphilis and scrofula are married the offspring cannot be happy ! A patient resort to tonics, good food, and cai’e- ful hygiene, is necessary in all such cases. If the symptoms are such as to make it certain, or even probable, that tertiary syphilis is the fundamental malady, tlie careful use of mercurial inunctions and free administration of iodide of potassium must be added, and long and carefully pei’sisted in, if a cure is expected. As iritis is often associated Avith this disease of the cornea, the free use of atropia, three or four times a day, is indisjiensable. I Local stimulants in any form only aggravate the disease and intensify ' the danger. Warm fomentations, or poultices often renewed, and kept up for six or eight hours a day, are of great value. It is often a source of I surprise, to see how well such cases generally recover sight, even under the j' most hopeless ap})earances. But the treatment Avill be long in every case, : with occasional rela}ises. Barely, undue hardness of the globe, pain, increased [ failure of vision, and other evidences of secondary glaucoma, will show them- f selves. In that case, notwithstanding the presence of iritis, the atropia must ' be omitted. Warm ap])lications, long continued, and eserine two or tliree I times a day, must now be the main reliance. j, Should the excessive intra-ocular tension not yield in a few days to the I eserine, an iridectomy must be tried. In the case of a giil fourteen years old, with tliis foi'm of keratitis in both eyes, glaucomatous hardness was de- [ tected in one eye, and iridectomy proposed for the next day. In the mean ' time, a solution of two grains of eserine in an ounce of water Avas instilled every six hours. When the time came, the hardness Avas reduced and no operation Avas necessary. In some A'ery malignant cases of this affection, the corneal infiltration leads to a sort of sclerosis and tendinous opacity of the I entire cornea. In an instance of tins sort, recently, in a little girl of eight I years, with increased tension and pupillary membranes in both eyes, I prac- tised a double iridectomy, a-s a last resort. Some months after, the eyes beg an to improve sloAvly, and the giil noAv has useful and improving vision. I FolloAving ulcerative destruction of the cornea, tAvo changes may occur; i one,y/r/itenhn/, Avith more or less diminution of the globe in size; the other '[yrotrv.sion Avith enlargement, called staphyloma. If most of the cornea has ' been destroyed, with sudden perforation, and loss of the lens and part of the